The origin of the Russian theater is altogether more recent. It is true that Peter the Great
meddled a good deal with the theater as well as with other things, but it was not till the
Empress Catharine that dramatic literature was really emancipated by the court. Under Alexander
and Nicholas the most magnificent arrangements have been made in every one of the cities that
from time to time is honored by the residence of the Emperor, so that Russia boasts of possessing
five theaters, two of which excel everything in Europe in respect to size and splendor, but
yet possesses no sort of taste for dramatic art. The stage, in the empire of the Muscovites,
is like a rose-bush grafted on a wild forest tree. It has not grown up naturally from a poetic
want in the people, and finds in the country little or nothing in the way of a poetic basis.
Accordingly, the theater in Russia is in every respect a foreign institution. Not national
in its origin, it has not struck its roots into the heart of the people. Only here and there
a feeble germ of theatrical literature has made its way through the obstinate barbarism of
the Russian nature. The mass have no feeling for dramatic poetry, while the cultivated classes
exhibit a most striking want of taste.

But in Russia everything is inverted. What in other nations is the final result of a long life,
is there the beginning. A natural development of the people appears to its rulers too circuitous,
and in fact would in many things require centuries of preparation. Accordingly, they seek to
raise their subjects to the level of other races by forcing them outwardly to imitate their
usages. Peter the Great says in his testament: "Let there be no intermission in teaching the
Russian people European forms and customs." The theater in Russia is one of these forms, and
from this it is easy to understand the condition it is in.

It is true there are in the country a few independent companies of players, but they are not
Russian, or at least were formed as a speculation by some foreigner. For example, Odessa has
often two such, and sometimes three. The Italian company is said to be good. The Russian, which
has now become permanent, has hitherto been under the management of a German, and has been
very poor. The company in Kiew consists mostly of Poles, from the old Polish provinces incorporated
with Russia, and has a high reputation. In Poland it would be possible in every little nest
of a city to get together a tolerable company for dramatic performance. In Russia it would
be much easier to raise an army. The ultimate reason of this striking contrast is the immense
dissimilarity in the character of the two nations. The Pole is remarkably sanguine, fiery,
enthusiastic, full of ideality and inspiration; the Russian is through and through material,
a lover of coarse physical pleasures, full of ability to fight and cut capers, but not endowed
with a capacity quickly to receive impressions and mentally elaborate them.

In this respect, the mass and the aristocracy, the serfs and their masters, are as alike as
twins. The noble is quite as coarse as the peasant. In Poland this is quite otherwise. The
peasant may be called a rough creature, but the noble is almost always a man of refinement,
lacking indeed almost always in scientific information, but never in the culture of a man of
the world. The reason of this is, that his active, impetuous soul finds constant occasion for
maintaining familiarity with the world around him, and really needs to keep up a good understanding
with it. The Russians know no such want.

Even in St. Petersburg the German was long much more successful than the native theater, though
the number of Russians there is seventeen times larger than that of the Germans. The Russians
who there visit the theater are the richest and most prominent members of the aristocracy.
They however consider the drama as simply a thing of fashion. Hence results the curious fact
that it is thought a matter of good taste to be present at the beginning but not to wait for
the end of a piece. It has happened that long before the performance was over the house was
perfectly empty, everyone following the fashion, in order not to seem deficient in public manners.
If there is ever a great attraction at the theater, it is not the play, but some splendid show.
The Russian lady, in studying the coiffure or the trailing-robe of an actress, forgets entirely
her part in this piece, if indeed she has ever had an adequate conception of it. For this reason,
at St. Petersburg and Moscow the ballet is esteemed infinitely higher than the best drama;
and if the management should have the command of the Emperor to engage rope-dancers and athletes,
circus-riders and men-apes, the majority of Russians would be of opinion that the theater had
gained the last point of perfection. This was the case in Warsaw several years ago, when the
circus company of Tourniare was there. The theaters gave their best and most popular pieces,
in order to guard against too great a diminution of their receipts. The Poles patriotically
gave the preference for the drama, but the Russians were steady adorers of Madame Tourniare
and her horse. In truth, the lady enjoyed the favor of Prince Paskiewich. General O---- boasted
that during the eleven months that the circus staid he was not absent from a single performance.
The Polish Count Ledochowski, on the other hand, said that he had been there but once when
he went with his children, and saw nothing of the performance, because he read Schiller's William
Tell every moment. This was Polish opposition to Russian favoritism, but it also affords an
indication of the national peculiarities of the two races.

From deficiency in taste for dramatic art arises the circumstance that talent for acting is
incomparably scarce among the Russians. Great as have been the efforts of the last emperors
of Russia to add a new splendor to their capitals by means of the theater, they have not succeeded
in forming from their vast nation artists above mediocrity, except in low comedy. At last it
was determined to establish dramatic schools in connection with the theaters and educate players;
but it appears that though talent can be developed, it cannot be created at the word of command.
The Emperor Nicholas, or rather his wife, was, as is said, formerly so vexed at the incapacity
of the Russians for dramatic art, that it was thought best to procure children in Germany for
the schools. The Imperial will met with hindrance, and he contented himself with taking children
of the German race from his own dominions. The pride of the Russians did not suffer in consequence.

While poetry naturally precedes dramatic art, the drama, on the other hand, cannot attain any
degree of excellence where the theater is in such a miserable state. It is now scarcely half
a century since the effort was begun to remove the total want of scientific culture in the
Russian nation, but what are fifty years for such a purpose, in so enormous a country? The
number of those who have received the scientific stimulus and been carried to a degree of intellectual
refinement is very small, and the happy accident by which a man of genius appears among the
small number must be very rare. And in this connection it is noteworthy, that the Russian who
feels himself called to artistic production almost always shows a tendency to epic composition.

The difficulties of form appear terrible to the Russian. In romance-writing the form embarrasses
him less, and accordingly they almost all throw themselves into the making of novels.

As is generally the case in the beginning of every nation's literature, any writer in Russia
is taken for a miracle, and regarded with stupor. The dramatist Kukolnik is an example of this.
He has written a great deal for the theater, but nothing in him is to be praised so much as
his zeal in imitation. It must be admitted that in this he possesses a remarkable degree of
dexterity. He soon turned to the favorite sphere of romance writing, but in this also he manifests
the national weakness. In every one of his countless works the most striking feature is the
lack of organization. They were begun and completed without their author's ever thinking out
a plot, or its mode of treatment.

Kukolnik's "Alf and Adona," in which at least one hundred and fifty characters are brought
upon the stage, has not one whose appearance is designed to concentrate the interest of the
audience. Each comes in to show himself, and goes out not to be in the way any longer. Everything
is described and explained with equal minuteness, from the pile of cabbages by the wayside,
to the murder of a prince; and instead of a historical action there is nothing but unconnected
details. The same is the case with his "Eveline and Baillerole," in which Cardinal Richelieu
is represented as a destroyer of the aristocracy, and which also is made up of countless unconnected
scenes, that in part are certainly done with some neatness. These remarks apply to the works
of Iwan Wanenko and I. Boriczewski, to I. Zchewen's "Sunshine", five volumes strong; to the
compositions of Wolkow, Czerujawski, Ulitinins, Th. Van Dim, (a pseudonym,) in fact to everything
that has yet appeared.

On the part of the Imperial family, as we have already said, everything has been done for the
Russian stage that could possibly be done, and is done no where else. The extremest liberality
favors the artists, schools are provided in order to raise them from the domain of gross buffoonery
to that of true art, the most magnificent premiums are given to the best, actors are made equal
in rank to officers of state, they are held only to twenty-five years' service, reckoning from
their debut,--and finally, they receive for the rest of their lives a pension equal to their
full salaries. High rewards are given to Russian star-actors, in order if possible to draw
talent of every sort forth from the dry steppes of native art. The Russian actors are compelled
on pain of punishment to go regularly to the German theater, with a view to their improvement,
and in order to make this as effective as may be, enormous compensations attract the best German
stars to St. Petersburg. And yet all this is useless, and the Russian theater is not raised
above the dignity of a workshop. Only the comic side of the national character, a burlesque
and droll simplicity, is admirably represented by actors whose skill and the scope of whose
talents may he reckoned equal to the Germans in the same line. But in the higher walks of the
drama they are worthless. The people have neither cultivation nor sentiment for serious works,
while the poets to produce them, and the actors to represent them, are alike wanting.

Immediately after the submission of Poland in 1831, the theaters, permanent and itinerant,
were closed. The plan was conceived of not allowing them to be reöpened until they could be
occupied by Russian performers. But as the Government recovered from its first rage, this was
found to be impracticable. The officers of the garrisons in Poland, however numerous, could
never support Russian theaters, and besides, where were the performers to come from? In Warsaw,
however, it was determined to force a theater into existence, and a Russian newspaper was already
established there. The power of the Muscovites has done great things, built vast fortresses
and destroyed vaster, but it could not accomplish a Russian theater at Warsaw. Even the paper
died before it had attained a regular life, although it cost a great deal of money.

Finally came the permission to reöpen the Polish theater, and indeed the caprice which was
before violent against it, was now exceedingly favorable, but of course not without collateral
purposes. The scanty theater on the Krasinski place, which was alone in Warsaw, except the
remote circus and the little theater of King Stanislaus Augustus, was given up, and the sum
of four millions of florins ($1,600,000) devoted to the erection of two large and magnificent
theaters. The superintendence of the work of building and the management of the performances
was, according to the Russian system, intrusted to one General Rautenstrauch, a man seventy
years old, and worn out both in mind and body. The two theaters were erected under one roof,
and arranged on the grandest and most splendid scale. The edifice is opposite the City Hall,
occupies a whole side of the main public place, and is above 750 feet in length. The pit in
each is supported by a series of immense, stupid, square pilasters, such as architecture has
seldom witnessed out of Russia. Over these pilasters stands the first row of boxes supported
by beautifully wrought Corinthian columns, and above these rise three additional rows. The
edifice is about 160 feet high and is the most colossal building in Warsaw. As it was designed
to treat the actors in military fashion and according to Russian style, the building was laid
out like barracks and about seven hundred persons live in it, most of them employed about the
theater. The two stages were built by a German architect under the inspection of the General
whose peremptory suggestions were frequent and injurious. Both the great theater as it is called,
which has four rows of boxes, and can contain six thousand auditors, and the Varieté theater
which is very much smaller, are fitted out with all sorts of apparatus that ever belonged to
a stage. In fact, new machinery has in many cases been invented for them and proved totally
useless. The Russian often hits upon queer notions when he tries to show his gifts.

On one side a very large and strong bridge has been erected leading from the street to the
stage, to be used whenever the piece requires large bodies of cavalry to make their appearance,
and there are machines that can convey persons with the swiftness of lightning down from the
sky above the stage, a distance of 56 feet. A machine for which a ballet has been composed
surpasses everything I ever saw in its size; it serves to transport eighty persons together
on a seeming cloud from the roof to the foot-lights. I was astonished by it when I first beheld
it although I had seen the machines of the grand opera at Paris: the second time I reflected
that it alone cost 40,000 florins [$16,000].

Under the management of two Russian Generals, who have hitherto been at the head of the establishment,
a vast deal has in this way been accomplished for mere external show.

The great Russian theatre of St. Petersburg has served for a model, and accordingly nothing
has really been improved except that part of the performance which is farthest removed from
genuine art, namely the ballet. That fact is that out of Paris the ballet is nowhere so splendid
as in the great theater at Warsaw, not even at St. Petersburg, for the reason that the Russian
is inferior to the Pole in physical beauty and grace. Heretofore the corps of the St. Petersburg
ballet has twice been composed of Poles, but this arrangement has been abandoned as derogatory
to the national honor. The sensual attractions of the ballet render it the most important thing
in the theater. A great school for dancers has been established, where pupils may be found
from three to eighteen years old. It is painful to see the little creatures, hardly weaned
from their mothers' breasts--twisted and tortured for the purposes of so doubtful an occupation
as dancing. The school contains about two hundred pupils, all of whom occasionally appear together
on the boards, in the ballet of Charis and Flora, for instance, when they receive a trifling
compensation. For the rest the whole ballet corps are bound to daily practice.

The taste of the Russians has made prominent in the ballet exactly those peculiarities which
are least to its credit. It must be pronounced exaggerated and lascivious. Aside from these
faults, which may be overlooked as the custom of the country, we must admit that the dancing
is uncommonly good.

The greater the care of the management for the ballet, the more injurious is its treatment
of the drama. This is melancholy for the artists and especially those who have come to the
imperial theater from the provinces, who are truly respectable and are equally good in comedy
and tragedy. The former has been less shackled than the latter for the reason that it turns
upon domestic life. But tragedy is most frightfully treated by the political censorship, so
that a Polish poet can hardly expect to see his pieces performed on the stage of his native
country. Hundreds of words and phrases such as freedom, avenging sword, slave, oppression,
father-land, cannot be permitted and are stricken out. Accordingly nothing but the trumpery
of mere penny-a-liners is brought forward, though this sometimes assumes an appearance of originality.
These abortions remain on the stage only through the talent of the artists, the habit of the
public to expect nothing beyond dullness and stupidity in the drama, and finally, the severe
regulation which forbids any mark of disapprobation under pain of imprisonment. The best plays
are translated from the French, but they are never the best of their kind. To please the Russians
only those founded on civic life are chosen, and historical subjects are excluded. Princely
personages are not allowed to be introduced on the stage, nor even high officers of state,
such as ministers and generals. In former times the Emperor of China was once allowed to pass,
but more recently the Bey of Tunis was struck out and converted into an African nobleman. A
tragedy is inadmissible in any case, and should one be found with nothing objectionable but
its name, it is called drama.

In such circumstances we would suppose that the actors would lose all interest in their profession.
But this is not the case. At least the cultivated portion of the public at Warsaw never go
to the theater to see a poetic work of art, but only to see and enjoy the skill of the performers.
Of course there is no such thing as theatrical criticism at Warsaw; but everybody rejoices
when the actors succeed in causing the wretchedness of the piece to be forgotten. The universal
regret for the wretched little theater on the Krasinski place, where Suczkowska, afterward
Mad. Halpert, founded her reputation in the character of the Maid of Orleans, is the best criticism
on the present state of the drama.

The Russians take great delight in the most trivial pieces. Even Prince Paskiewich sometimes
stays till the close of the last act. To judge by the direction of his opera-glass, which is
never out of his hand, he has the fortune to discover poetry elsewhere than on the stage. In
truth the Warsaw boxes are adorned by beautiful faces. Even the young princess Jablonowska
is not the most lovely.

The arrangements of the Warsaw theaters are exactly like those of the Russian theater at St.
Petersburg, but almost without exception, the pupils of the dramatic school, of whom seventeen
have come upon the boards, have proved mere journeymen, and have been crowded aside by performers
from the provincial cities. None of the eminent artists of late years have enjoyed the advantages
of the school. The position of the actors at Warsaw is just the same as at St. Petersburg.
The day after their first appearance they are regularly taken into duty as imperial officials,
take an oath never to meddle with political affairs, nor join in any secret society, nor ever
to pronounce on the stage anything more or anything else than what is in the stamped parts
given them by the imperial management.

Actors' salaries at Warsaw are small in comparison with those of other countries. Forty or
fifty silver rubles a month ($26 to $33) pass for a very respectable compensation, and even
the very best performers rarely get beyond a thousand rubles a year ($650). Madame Halpert
long had to put up with that salary till once Taglioni said to Prince Paskiewich that it was
a shame for so magnificent an artist to be no better paid than a writer. Her salary was thereupon
raised one-half, and subsequently by means of a similar mediation she succeeded in getting
an addition of a thousand rubles yearly under the head of wardrobe expenses. This was a thing
so extraordinary that the managing General declared that so enormous a compensation would never
again be heard of in any imperial theatre. The pupils of the dramatic school receive eighteen
rubles monthly, and, according to their performances, obtain permission every two years to
ask an increase of salary. The period of service extends to twenty-five years, with the certainty
of a yearly pension equal to the salary received at the close of the period.

For the artist this is a very important arrangement, which enables him to endure a thousand
inconveniences.

There is no prospect of a better state of the Polish drama. Count Fedro may, in his comedies,
employ the finest satire with a view to its restoration, but he will accomplish nothing so
long as the Generals ride the theater as they would a war horse. On the other hand, no Russian
drama has been established, because the conditions are wanting among the people. That is a
vast empire, but poor in beauty; mighty in many things, but weak in artistic talents; powerful
and prompt in destruction, but incapable spontaneously and of itself to create anything.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEATH'S JEST BOOK, OR THE FOOL'S TRAGEDY."

The Examiner, for July 20, contains an elaborate review, with numerous extracts, of a play
just published under this title in London. "It is radiant," says the critic, "in almost every
page with passion, fancy, or thought, set in the most apposite and exquisite language. We have
but to discard, in reading it, the hope of any steady interest of story, or consistent development
of character: and we shall find a most surprising succession of beautiful passages, unrivaled
in sentiment and pathos, as well as in terseness, dignity, and picturesque vigor of language;
in subtlety and power of passion, as well as in delicacy and strength of imagination; and as
perfect and various, in modulation of verse, as the airy flights of Fletcher or Marlowe's mighty
line.

"The whole range of the Elizabethan drama has not finer expression, nor does any single work
of the period, out of Shakspeare, exhibit so many rich and precious bars of golden verse, side
by side with such poverty and misery of character and plot. Nothing can be meaner than the
design, nothing grander than the execution."

In conclusion, the Examiner observes--"We are not acquainted with any living author who could
have written the Fool's Tragedy; and, though the publication is unaccompanied by any hint of
authorship, we believe that we are correct in stating it to be a posthumous production of the
author of the Bride's Tragedy; Mr. Thomas Lovell Beddoes. Speaking of the latter production,
now more than a quarter of a century ago, (Mr. Beddoes was then, we believe, a student at Pembroke
College, Oxford, and a minor,) the Edinburgh Review ventured upon a prediction of future fame
and achievement for the writer, which an ill-chosen and ill-directed subsequent career unhappily
intercepted and baffled. But in proof of the noble natural gifts which suggested such anticipation,
the production before us remains: and we may judge to what extent a more steady course and
regular cultivation would have fertilized a soil, which, neglected and uncared for, has thrown
out such a glorious growth of foliage and fruit as this Fool's Tragedy."

       *       *       *       *       *

WINTHROP MACKWORTH PRAED.

Praed, it has always seemed to us, was the cleverest writer in his way that has ever contributed
to the English periodicals. His fugitive lyrics and arabesque romances, half sardonic and half
sentimental, published with Hookham Frere's "Whistlecraft" and Macaulay's Roundhead Ballads,
in Knight's Quarterly Magazine, and after the suspension of that work, for the most part in
the annual souvenirs, are altogether unequaled in the class of compositions described as vers
de societie.--Who that has read "School and School Fellows", "Palinodia", "The Vicar", "Josephine",
and a score of other pieces in the same vein, does not desire to possess all the author has
left us, in a suitable edition? It has been frequently stated in the English journals that
such a collection was to be published, under the direction of Praed's widow, but we have yet
only the volume prepared by a lover of the poet some years ago for the Langleys, in this city.
In the "Memoirs of Eminent Etonians," just printed by Mr. Edward Creasy, we have several waifs
of Praed's that we believe will be new to all our readers. Here is a characteristic political
rhyme:

VERSES

ON SEEING THE SPEAKER ASLEEP IN HIS CHAIR IN ONE OF THE DEBATES OF THE FIRST REFORMED PARLIAMENT.

  Sleep, Mr. Speaker, 'tis surely fair
  If you mayn't in your bed, that you should in your chair. Sweet to men
  Is the sleep that cometh but now and then,
  Sweet to the weary, sweet to the ill,
  Sweet to the children that work in the mill.
  You have more need of repose than they--
  Sleep, Mr. Speaker, sleep while you may!

The following is a spirited version of a dramatic scene in the second book of the Annals of
Tacitus:

ARMINIUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMPBELL AND WASHINGTON IRVING.

The Editor of The Albion, in noticing the republication by the Harpers of the very interesting
Life and Letters of Thomas Campbell, by Dr. Beattie, has the following observations upon Mr.
Irving's introductory letter:

"WASHINGTON IRVING, at the request of the publishers, contributed a very interesting letter
to themselves, directing public notice to the value of this edition. He pays also a hearty
and deserved tribute, not only to the genius of Campbell, but to his many excellencies and
kindly specialities of character. The author of "Hohenlinden," and the "Battle of the Baltic"
stands in need of no man's praise as a lyric poet--but this sort of testimony to his private
worth is grateful and well-timed. Here is an interesting passage from Mr. Irving's introductory
communication. He is alluding to Campbell's fame and position, when he himself first made Campbell's
acquaintance in England.

"The foregoing is new to us, and full of a double interest. It is followed, however, by a statement,
that needs a word of explanation. It so happened that we ourselves were present at this dinner,
which took place in 1842; and the painful circumstance alluded to by Mr. Irving did not produce
the effect on us, that it appears to have produced on him. Without making a long story about
a trifle, we can call to mind no appearance of hostility or ill-will manifested on that occasion;
and on the contrary, recollect, in our immediate neighborhood, a mournful sense of distress
at the scene exhibited, and sufficiently hinted in the few unpleasant words we have italicized.
A muster of Englishmen preferred coughing down their favorite bard, to allowing him to mouth
out maudlin twaddle, before the Prince, then first formally introduced to the public, and before
a meeting whereat "was collected much of the prominent talent of the kingdom." Mr. Irving,
himself most deservedly a man of mark, looked on with much, surprise. Looking on ourselves
then, and writing now, as one of the public, and as one of the many to whom Campbell's name
and fame are inexpressibly dear, we honestly think that of two evils the lesser was chosen.
We think Mr. Hallam's lecture must have been inaudible to the greater part of the company."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Archbishop of Lemburgh has prohibited his clergy from wearing long hair like the peasants,
and from smoking in public, "like demagogues and sons of Baal."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Persians have a saying, that "Ten measures of talk were sent down upon the earth, and the
women took nine." If he were now in the vein of writing, what a stirring lyric all these circumstances
might suggest.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUDUBON AND WASHINGTON IRVING--THE PLAGUE OF RAILROADS.--The voyager up the Hudson will involuntarily
anathematize the invention of the rail, when he sees how much of the most romantic beauty has
been defaced or destroyed by that tyranny which, disregarding all private desire and justice,
has filled up bays, and cut off promontories, and leveled heights, to make way for the intrusive
and noisy car. But the effects of these so-called "improvements," upon the romantic in nature
will be forgotten if he considers the injury and wrong they cause to persons, and particularly
to those whose genius has contributed more to human happiness than all the inventions in oeconomical
art.

The Nestor of our naturalists, and in his field, the greatest as well as the oldest of our
artists, AUDUBON, with the comparatively slight gains of a long life of devotion to science,
and of triumphs which had made him world-renowned, purchased on the banks of the river, not
far from the city, a little estate which it was the joy as well as the care of his closing
years to adorn with everything that a taste so peculiarly and variously schooled could suggest.
He had made it a pleasing gate-way to the unknown world, with beautiful walks leading down
to the river whose depth and calmness and solemn grandeur symboled the waves through which
he should pass to the reward of a life of such toil and enviable glory. He had promise of an
evening worthy of his meridian--when the surveyors and engineers, with their charter-privileges,
invaded his retreat, built a road through his garden, destroyed forever his repose, and--the
melancholy truth is known--made of his mind a ruin.

WASHINGTON IRVING--now sixty-seven years of age--had found a resting-place at Wolfert's Roost,
close by the scenes which lie in the immortal beauty that radiates from his pages, and when
he thought that in this Tusculum he was safe from all annoying, free to enjoy the quietness
and ease he had earned from the world, the same vandals laid the track through his grounds,
not only destroying all their beauty and attraction, but leaving fens from which these summer
heats distilled contagion. He has therefore been ill for some weeks, and as he had never a
strong constitution, and has preserved his equable but not vigorous health only by the most
constant carefulness, his physicians and friends begin to be alarmed for the result. Heaven
avert the end they so fearfully anticipate. He cannot go alone: The honest Knickerbocker, the
gentle Crayon, and the faithful brother Agapida, with Washington Irving will forever leave
the world, which cannot yet resign itself to the loss of either.

       *       *       *       *       *

