     'After minutely examining every page of the manuscripts in
     question, as well as others, which were undoubtedly written
     in the monastery of St. Alban's, and comparing them with
     others executed in various parts of England and on the
     Continent, I can come to no other conclusion than that
     during the latter half of the 13th century, and perhaps a
     little earlier, there prevailed among the scribes in the
     Scriptorium of St. Alban's, a peculiar character of writing
     which is not recognizable in any other religious house in
     England during that period; but which is traceable in some
     foreign manuscripts, and even in private deeds executed in
     England in the neighbourhood of St. Alban's during the 12th
     and 13th centuries. These facts lead me to the inference,
     that the schoolmaster who taught the art of writing to
     Matthew Paris and the other members and scholars of the
     establishment at St. Alban's was a foreigner; that his
     pupils not only imitated their instructor in the formation
     of his letters, but also in his exceptional orthography.'

What questions suggest themselves as we accept the conclusion arrived at! Who was he, this
'foreigner,' who had come from across the sea to bring in his outlandish novelties into the
great scriptorium? Was he some 'Frenchman' imported from sunny Champagne, where Thibaut, the
mawkish singer was making verses which his people loved to listen to? Did he teach the young
novices French as well as writing? Did he touch the lute himself on Feast-days, and charm them
with some new lyric of Gasse Bruslé, or delight them with one of Rutebeuf's merry ditties?
France was all alive with song at this time, and princes were rivals now for poetic fame. It
may be that this 'foreigner' brought in a taste for light literature as well as for a new fashion
in penmanship, and made known to his pupils such alluring novelties as the 'Roman d'Alexandre,
soon to be eclipsed by the 'Roman de la Rose.'

The scriptorium at St. Alban's was founded by Abbot Paul, a kinsman of Archbishop Lanfrance,
when the great Abbey had already existed for three centuries. Paul became Abbot eleven years
after the Conquest, and he showed himself an able and earnest administrator. From this time
learning and a love of books became a tradition of the house. Abbot after abbot continued to
add to the collection of MSS., and to increase the value of the library. But St. Alban's had
never had a great historian of its own. Strange and shameful fact! East and west and north
and south, all over the land, there were great writers holding up their proud heads. Out in
the desolate wilds there at Peterborough, they had been actually keeping up a chronicle for
centuries--aye, and written in the vernacular too. The lonely monastery of Ely, among the swamps,
had its historian. Malmesbury boasted her learned William; and Worcester, which St. Wulstan
had raised from the dust, as it were, only the other day, had already her Florence. In the
great houses of the Northern Province there had been no lack of writers to whom the past was
an open book. Even Westminster had long ago had her chronographer, and far away in furthest
Wales, Geoffrey, the Monmouth man, was making men open their eyes very wide indeed with tales--idle
tales they might be, but they were well worth the reading--and there was talk too of another
young Welshman, Giraldus, who was on the way towards outdoing the other by-and-bye. What are
we coming to? Holy St. Alban, shalt thou and thy house be put to shame?--that be far from us!

Thus it came to pass that about a century after the foundation of the scriptorium, and when
the library had grown to an imposing size, Abbot Simon bestirred himself, and a new office
was created in the Abbey, to wit, that of Historiographer. In our time we should have given
this functionary a grander title, and called him Professor of History; but in the 12th century,
they called him what he was, a writer of history, and from this time, in fact, the writing
of history, after a certain authorized method, began, and what had been called, and deserves
to be called, the St. Alban's School of History took its rise.

It is evident that before the 13th century had well begun, an historical compendium of great
value had already been drawn up, which must have been compiled by careful students with a command
of books such as during this age was rare.

     'The compilation,' says Dr. Luard, 'whenever and by
     whomsoever it was written must be regarded as a very curious
     and remarkable one. The very large number of sources
     consulted, the miscellaneous character of many of the
     extracts, the mixture of history and legend, the giving
     fixed years to stories which even writers like Geoffrey of
     Monmouth had left undated, the care at one time and the
     carelessness at another, the slavishness with which one
     authority is followed, and the recklessness with which
     another is altered, the frequent confusion of dates, their
     ignorance and want of care, the blunders displayed in many
     instances from the compiler not understanding the author
     whom he is copying, as is especially the case in the
     extracts from the "Anglo-Saxon Chronicle;" all these
     characteristics may well earn for the author the title that
     Lappenberg has given to him, though under the name of
     "Matthew of Westminster," namely, that of the "Verwirrer der
     Geschichte." At the same time there is no doubt that he had
     access to some materials which we no longer possess: and my
     object has been to trace all his statements, where possible,
     to their source, and to distinguish any additions that the
     compiler has made when they are merely rhetorical
     amplifications of his own, or when they are really from some
     source not now extant.'--Pref. to vol. i., p. xxxiii.

After all that can be said, the work surprises us by the erudition it displays. Nor is that
surprise lessened when we have gone through the masterly analysis of its contents, which Dr.
Luard has given us in the Preface to his first vol. Such as it was, it became the great text-book
on which Roger of Wendover founded his own labours when he incorporated it into the chronicle
which he left behind him. Roger of Wendover did good work, and laboriously epitomized, supplemented
and improved, but he was a mere literary monk after all; a student, a bookworm, simple, conscientious,
and truthful; a trustworthy reporter, 'a picker-up of learning's crumbs,' a monkish historiographer,
in short; but by no means a historian of large views and of original mind. Roger of Wendover
died in 1236, and Matthew Paris succeeded to his office and work.

From what has been said, the reader may be presumed to have gained something like an answer
to our first question: What was Brother Matthew? Briefly, he was a representative monk of the
most powerful monastery in England during the 13th century, when that monastery was at its
best, and doing the work which in after times the Universities and great schools of the country
took out of the hands of the religious houses; work, too, which since those days has been done
by the printing-press, and by many other institutions better fitted to deal with the requirements
of an immensely larger population, and to be the instruments of diffusing culture and refinement
through the nation after it had outgrown the older machinery.

When we come to look into the personal history of Brother Matthew, the details of his biography
need not detain us long. Sir Henry Taylor's famous line is only half true, after all;

    'The world knows nothing of its greatest men'

really means that the world knows less about them than it would like to know. And yet the world
knows almost as much about them as is good for it. The leading facts of a man's career are
all that concern most of us--the main lines--not the details. Of Matthew Paris we know enough,
because he has himself given us so faithful a picture of his times, and so charming an insight
into the daily life which he led.

Unnecessary doubt has been suggested as to his parentage, and whether his extraction was or
was not from a stock that could boast of gentle blood. For our part we incline strongly to
the belief, that Brother Matthew was called Paris because that was his name, and had been his
father's name before him. A family of that name held lands in Bedfordshire in Henry III.'s
time; others of the same stock were settled in Lincolnshire earlier still; and the Cambridgeshire
family (one of whom was among the visitors of the monasteries under Henry VIII.) boasted of
a long line of ancestors, and retained their estates in the Eastern Counties till late in the
17th century. Young Matthew probably received his education in the school at St. Alban's, and
soon showed a decided taste for learning and the student's life, and that in the 13th century
meant an inclination for the life of the cloister. Many a precocious lad is even now taught
from his childhood to look forward to the glories of a College Fellowship, and the career which
such an academic success may open to him; and in the 13th century a schoolboy's ambition was
directed to the goal of admission to a great monastery--that step on the ladder which whosoever
could reach, there was no knowing how high he might climb--how high above the common sons of
earth or, if he preferred it, how high towards the heaven that is above the earth.

Matthew was probably born about the year 1200, and in January 1217 he became a monk at St.
Alban's, i. e., he became a novice. At this time a lad could commence his noviciate at 15;
but the age was subsequently advanced to 19, the younger limit having been found, as a rule,
too early even for the preliminary discipline required. On the day after the lad was admitted,
a frightful scene took place in the monastery. A band of Fawkes de Breauté's cut-throats had
stormed the town of St. Alban's, burst into the Abbey, and slaughtered at the door of the church
one Robert Mai, a servant of the Abbot. William de Trumpington was Abbot at this time, a vigorous
and resolute personage, who ruled the convent with a firm hand. Like all really able men, he
was ably seconded, for he knew how to choose his subordinates. At first the monks had repented
of their choice, and there were quarrels and litigation and appeals to the Pope, and many serious
'unpleasantnesses;' but as time went on, Abbot William had won the allegiance of all the convent,
and they were proud of him. He was a man of books, among his other virtues, and had an eye
for bookish men; and when he deposed Roger de Wendover from being Prior of Belvoir with a somewhat
high hand, and brought him back to St. Alban's, he doubtless did so because he knew that at
Belvoir he was a square man in a round hole, while in the scriptorium of the Abbey he would
be in his right place. Certainly the event proved that the Abbot was right, and it was to this
judicious removal of a student and man of letters to his proper home that we owe so much of
our knowledge of those interesting minutiæ of English history which the writer has revealed.
It was under the eye of Robert de Wendover that Matthew Paris grew up, rendering him every
year more and more substantial assistance in the library and in the scriptorium.

But the young man was not only a bookworm and a copyist, he soon got to be looked upon as a
prodigy. He was a universal genius; he could do whatever he set his hand to, and better than
any one else. He could draw, and paint, and illuminate, and work in metals. Some said he could
even construct maps; he was versed in everything, and noticed everything from 'the cedar that
is in Lebanon to the hyssop upon the wall;' he was an expert in heraldry; he could tell you
about whales, and camels, and buffaloes, and elephants--he could even draw an elephant--illustrate
his history, in fact, with the elephant's portrait, the first elephant, he says, that had ever
been seen in our northern climes. It was centuries before men had dreamt of what the science
of geology would one day reveal. Then, too, he had vast capacity for work, and was a courtly
person, and he had the gift of tongues, and had been a great traveller; he had early been sent
by the convent to study at the University of Paris, and wherever he went, he was the man to
make friends. When the Benedictines in Norway had convinced themselves that there was sore
need of a reform of their rule and discipline, they applied to Pope Innocent IV. to send them
a Visitor furnished with the necessary authority for carrying out so delicate and difficult
a mission, and they made choice of Matthew Paris as the fittest possible person for such a
work. Reluctantly Brother Matthew was compelled to undertake the task; he started on his northern
voyage in 1248, and was absent about a year. In Norway he soon grew into high favour with King
Hacon, who peradventure would have kept him at his side if he could. This seems to have been
the most important episode in his otherwise uneventful life. But the advantages and opportunities
which were at the command of any ambitious and studious young monk at St. Alban's were in themselves
extraordinary. We have said that building was always going on. It was going on on a very large
scale indeed in Abbot William's time. That means that there were the plans and sections and
working drawings to be copied for the architect, and measurements and calculations by the thousand
to be made--a school of architecture, in short: and besides that, what Roger de Wendover was
in the scriptorium, that Walter of Colchester, pictor et sculptor incomparabilis, was in the
painting room. Walter was a sculptor; indeed he wrought at his marvellous pulpit which the
Abbot set up in the middle of the church: and he carved the story of St. Alban upon the great
beam over the high altar, and did many another thing of which we have only too brief descriptions.
Then, too, there was Richard, the monk who decorated the grand new guests' hall deliciose,
as we are told, and who painted pictures and carried out other works of embellishment at a
pace which none could have kept up, but that he had his father to help him with his brush,
and another artist, John of Wallingford, to carry out his great designs, and many more skilled
limners whose names have gone down into silence.

When Abbot William's reign came to an end, the monks were unanimous in choosing John of Hertford
as his successor, and the new Abbot lost no time in showing favour to Matthew Paris. Next year
Roger de Wendover died, and who could there be so worthy to succeed him as historiographer
as the versatile and accomplished brother, who by this time was the boast of the great house?
And historiographer accordingly Matthew became--mutatis mutandis, a sort of 13th-century editor
of the 'Times;' his business was to gather from all points of the compass, if not the latest
news, yet the best and most trustworthy reports upon whatever was worth recording. He had his
correspondents all over Europe, and that he sifted the evidence as it came to him we know.

Wherever there was any great event that deserved a place in the Abbey Chronicle, some splendid
pageant to describe, some battle, or treaty, or pestilence, or flood, or famine, straightway
tidings came to the vigilant historiographer; and there was a comparison of the evidence brought
in, and some testing of witnesses, and finally the narrative was drawn up and incorporated
into Matthew's history. Again and again it happened that a great personage who, while himself
making history, was anxious that his own part in a transaction should be represented favourably,
would try and get the right side of the famous chronicler, and would furnish him with private
information. Even the King himself thought it no scorn to communicate facts and documents to
Brother Matthew. Once when Henry saw him in a crowd on a memorable occasion, he picked him
out, and bade him take his seat by his side, and see to it that he made a true and faithful
report of what was going on; and it is evident that the royal favour which he enjoyed through
life must have extended to furnishing him with many a story and many a detail which none but
the King could have supplied. The minute account of the attempt to assassinate Henry in 1238;
the curious State paper giving a narrative of the dispute between the King and his nobles in
1242; the strange scene at the tomb of William Marshall in 1245, and scores of other incidents
in the career of Bishop Grossteste and Richard of Cornwall, were evidently 'inspired,' and
can only have come from eye-witnesses of the events recorded. Nevertheless Matthew, though
he was willing enough to receive information, and to utilise facts and documents, was by no
means the man to reproduce them exactly in the form in which they came to him. More than once
he ventured to remonstrate with the King, and very much oftener than once he expresses his
opinion of him in no measured terms. Some of the severest censures he had marked for omission,
and some expressions he modified considerably, for we have the good fortune to possess his
chronicle both in an earlier and in a later form; but even though the fuller and more outspoken
record had perished, we should still have had enough proof to make it clear that we have in
Matthew Paris an instance of a born historian, one who never consented to be a mere advocate,
taking a side and seeing only half the truth of anything; but a man gifted with the judicial
faculty, that precious gift without which a man may be anything you please--a rhetorician,
a special pleader, a picturesque writer, a laborious collector of facts; but an historian never.
And yet Matthew Paris was a magnificent hater, with a fund of indignant scorn and righteous
anger which never fails him upon occasion. Friend of King and nobles as he was, he will not
spare his words of wrathful censure upon the tyrant, or upon any that he held deserving of
rebuke for cruelty, oppression and avarice. When he has to lay the lash on such as had proved
themselves enemies to his much-loved Abbey, or who had wronged and defrauded it, he is well-nigh
as fierce as Dante. He singles them out--the doomed wretches--and holds them, as it were, over
the fire of hell before he drops them down into the burning flame.

Did Ralph Cheinduit, that blustering, burly knight, cry aloud 'A fig for St. Alban and his
monks! Since they excommunicated me--look you! I have only increased in girth, behold me fat
and jolly, in faith almost too big for my saddle. A fig for them all!' Did he say so, the impious
wretch? Be it known that from that very day Sir Knight began to shrink and waste and pine,
and if he had not repented and been absolved in time, he had gone down to the bottomless pit
with never a hope of deliverance.

Did not Sir Adam Fitz William show the evil spirit that was in him when he sided against us
time and again? And now, look to his awful end! Gorged with meat and drink one night, he sprawled
upon his bed, indigestus, as you may say, and he never woke more. Aye! and he died intestate
too. And as though that was not bad enough, his wife too died, straightway, like another Sapphira
slain by the shock of the tidings. And then there was Alan de Beccles, too, always notorious
for setting himself against us and our house, he too perished as the other did, for he loved
choice dainties overmuch, and he dined late and he ate as none should eat, and when he could
eat no more, suddenly his speech failed him and his veins burst, smitten with an apoplexy.
And many another, whom it would take too long to name, following his evil course, and being
prosecutors of Holy Alban's Church, perished for ever by God's vengeance.

It is no longer the fashion now to denounce the Pope and his myrmidons, but if the rage of
Exeter Hall should ever recur, and the orators of the old platform should revive a taste for
anti-papal agitation, they might find in Matthew Paris as rich a repertory of testimonials
against Roman aggression and greed as the most rabid Irish Protestant could desire. 'O thou
Pope,' he bursts out once, 'thou the father of all the fathers in Christ, how it is that thou
sufferest the realms of Christendom to be fouled by such creatures as are thine?' The 'creatures'
were the papal legates and nuncios and all their belongings, who were plundering England without
shame. 'Harpies they were and blood-suckers,' says Matthew, 'mere plunderers, skinning the
sheep, not shearing them only.' Then there were the King's Justiciars--'Justice'--nay, with
that they had nothing to do. Why tell of their unrighteous deeds? he asks. 'Better forbear
from vainly writing about the wrongers, and return to the story of the wronged.'

Of course the friars come in for their share of strong words--chiefly because the Pope made
use of them so vilely, and not less because they set themselves above their betters--us, to
wit--monks of the old houses.

     'They started with such fair professions, they were going to
     be so very poor, and so very unworldly, and were going to
     supplement our work and interfere with nobody, and give us
     all a helping hand. Look at them now!' says Matthew; 'they
     march through the streets in pompous array with banners
     flaunting in the sun and waxen tapers, and rich burghers in
     holiday garments joining in the long train, and if they have
     no land they have money, good store, and as for their
     churches, they are eclipsing us all. Their invasion of our
     territory is a dreadful scandal, and they sneer at us and at
     all other religious men and women and they flout the parish
     priests and call them humdrums, and schism is at work
     horribly, and the people are running away from the old
     guides, and there is no end to them. Actually in the year of
     grace 1257,' he says, 'a new order of these fellows turned
     up in London. Friars of the sack, forsooth, because they
     were clothed in sackcloth! Of course they came armed with a
     papal licence as usual. What did these fellows come for? Was
     it to make confusion worse confounded? Alas! Alas! If we had
     only been as we were in the golden age, these friars would
     never have had a chance--not they! We too are not as the
     monks of old were; they lived the guileless life--austere,
     hard, self-denying, saintly! What are we in comparison with
     them?

     'Did not we find the bones of our brethren there, hard by
     the High Altar, when we were beautifying the same? O ye
     degenerate sons of this degenerate age! Two centuries ago
     and our monks were men of faith and prayer. In the year of
     grace one thousand two hundred and fifty-one, we found more
     than thirty of them buried together, and their bones were
     lying there, white and sweet, redolent with the odor of
     sanctity every one; each man had been buried as he died, in
     his monastic habit, and his shoes upon his feet too. Aye,
     and such shoes--shoes made for wear and not for
     wantonness. The soles of these shoes were sound and strong,
     they might have served the purpose for poor men's naked feet
     even now, after centuries of lying in the grave. Blush ye!
     ye with your buckles, and your pointed toes and your fiddle
     faddle. These shoes upon the holy feet that we dug up were
     as round at the toe as at the heel, and the latchets were
     all of one piece with the uppers. No rosettes in those days,
     if you please! They fastened their shoes with a thong, and
     they wound that thong around their blessed ankles, and they
     cared not in those holy days whether their shoes were a
     pair. Left foot and right foot each was as the other: and
     we, when we gazed at the holy relics--we bowed our heads at
     the edifying sight, and we were dumbfounded, even to awe, as
     we swung our censers over the sacred graves of the ages
     past!'

The anecdotes and out-of-the-way pieces of information in the 'Chronica Majora,' which may
be said to represent the paragraphs of modern journalism, are countless. Brother Matthew enlivens
his history with these cross-lights at every page, and what gives to these scraps an added
charm is that Matthew himself seems to be always with us when he prattles on. Not even Herodotus
has succeeded more entirely in impressing his quaint personality upon his narrative. It is
always something which he has seen, or heard from some living man who saw it with his own eyes.

     'There was my friend John of Basingstoke, had studied at
     Paris, and a wonder of learning he was, but he told me
     himself that his best teacher by far was the young lady
     Constantina, daughter of an archbishop she. Archbishop of
     Athens, too--archbishops may marry out there! Before she was
     twenty she knew all that men may know; she was worth two
     universities of Paris any day; she foretold the coming of
     plagues and storms, and eclipses--and--more wonderful
     still--the coming of earthquakes too: and John of
     Basingstoke was her scholar, and whatever he knew that was
     deep and rare, he learnt it of the lady Constantina, the
     Archbishop's daughter.'

Matthew is very great when he has to tell of omens and portents:

     'We were scurvily treated by Pope Innocent III.,' he says,
     'in the days of Abbot John. Spite of all our privileges and
     indulgences, the Pope would have him come to Rome every
     third year; a sore burden and harm to us all. Forthwith evil
     omens came. Thrice in three years was our tower struck by
     lightning. After that wrong of his Holiness it was no wonder
     that the impression of the papal seal in wax, which we had
     taken good care to fix on the top of the steeple, availed
     not to keep off the thunderbolt--small good you see in that
     kind of thing.'

Besides the miscellaneous paragraphs, there are periodical reports of the weather, and the
storms, and the droughts, and the harvests. Moreover, there are what answer to our police reports,
and details of criminal proceedings against Jew and Gentile, and births and deaths and marriages,
and now and then brief notes upon the state of the markets, and sometimes hints and reflections
upon the desirability of certain reforms in Church and State; and all this not in the spirit
of modern journalism, which at its best too often bears the marks of haste, and betrays the
literary soldier of fortune paid for his work at so much a column, but genuine, hearty, throbbing
with a certain passionate loyalty to a tradition, or an idea which you may say is exploded,
grotesque, or fanciful, but which in the 13th century honest men and devout ones lived by and
lived for, and were trying in their own way to carry out into action.

But now that we have got this precious 'Chronicle,' not to mention other works in the composition
of which Brother Matthew had at least a large share--though our space forbids us dwelling upon
them or their contents, and we must refer our readers to Dr. Luard's elaborate prefaces if
they would desire to know all about them--another question suggests itself, which sooner or
later will become a pressing question--What are we going to do with such a national work of
which this country has great reason to be proud?

The days are gone by when a man was supposed to be educated in proportion as he was familiar
with the literature of Greece and Rome and ignorant of everything else. Already at Oxford candidates
for the highest honours in the final schools think it no shame to read their Plato or their
Aristotle in English translations, and in half the time that was needed under the old plan
they get a mastery of their Thucydides or Herodotus, devoting themselves to the subject-matter
after they have proved at 'Moderations' that they have a respectable acquaintance with the
language of the authors.

May the day be far off when Homer and Æschylus shall cease to be read in the original! The
great writers of Hellas and Italy were poets or orators, great teachers or great thinkers;
but they were something more. They were perfect instrumentalities too. Their thoughts, their
lessons, their aspirations, their regrets, you may interpret and transfer into the speech and
the idioms of the moderns; but the music of their language, the subtleties of melody and rhythm,
and harmony and tone, can no more be translated than a symphony for the strings can be adequately
represented upon the organ. You may persuade yourself that you have got the substance; you
have missed the perfection of the form. Yet who but a narrow pedant will insist that the study
of any literature, ancient or modern, is valuable chiefly for familiarizing us with the language,
not for enriching our minds with the subject matter? Do we desire to understand the past and
so to be better able to estimate the importance of great movements that are going on in the
present or, by the help of the experience of bygone ages, to forecast the future? Then it behoves
us to see that our induction shall be made from as wide a view as may be, and to avail ourselves
of any light that may be gained. But it is mere waste of time to be for ever staring at the
lamp which may be pretty to look at in itself, but is then most precious when it serves as
a means to an end. If we are ever to construct a Science of History, the old methods must give
place to something which may approximate to philosophic enquiry. When we come to think of it,
how very small an area of time or space is covered by the historians of Greece and Rome: how
small an area and how superficially dealt with! Even Thucydides hardly ventures to lift the
veil which separates the civilization of his own age from that of an earlier period; he lifts
it for a moment, then drops the curtain and passes on. It is true indeed that Herodotus introduces
us to a world that is not Hellenic, and brings us into some sort of relation with men whose
habits and art and religion had a character of their own; but then these nations were not as
we, and not as men even of our race could ever become. We never seem to be in touch with Egypt
or Assyria, and when he prattles on about these nations it is less as a historian than as an
observant traveller that Herodotus delights and allures. Xenophon's passing notices of the
manners and education, of the feudalism and the social life of the Medes, are too brief to
be anything but tantalizing; but the neglect of Xenophon by professed students is not creditable,
however significant. Perhaps of all the Greek writers Polybius was the man who had the truest
conception of the historian's vocation; perhaps, too, it was just because he was so much before
his age that his voluminous and ambitious work has come down to us little more than a fragment.
Because he was something better than a compiler of annals, they who read history only to be
amused found him dull, and the moderns have not yet reversed the verdict which was passed upon
him. Who ever heard of a candidate for honours taking Polybius into the schools?

It is from the Latin historians that we might have expected so much and from whom we get so
little. What do they tell us of ancient Spain--the Spain that Sertorius pretended he was going
to regenerate, and whose civilization, literature, and national life he did so much to extinguish?
If it were not for what Aristotle has told us in the Politics, what should we know of that
mighty commercial Republic which monopolized the carrying trade of the old world? It never
seems to have occurred to Livy that the political organization of Carthage could be worth his
notice. His business was to glorify Rome, and to tell how Rome grew to greatness--grew by war
and conquest and pillage, and the ferocious might of her relentless soldiery. The 'Germania'
of Tacitus stands alone--unique in ancient literature; but what would we not give for such
a monograph upon the Britain which Cæsar attempted to conquer, or the Gaul which he plundered
and devastated? The great captain's famous missive might be inscribed as the motto of his 'Commentaries.'
Veni! vidi! vici! sums up in brief the substance of what they contain. It was always Rome's
way! Rome swept a sponge that was soaked in blood over all the past of the nations she subdued.
She came to obliterate, never to preserve. Her chroniclers disdained to ask how these or those
doughty antagonists had grown formidable, how their national life had developed; whether their
progress had been arrested by the conquerors or whether they had become weak and enervated
by social deterioration or moral corruption. Enough that they were Barbarians.

The science of history can be but little advanced by writers such as these, who pass from battlefield
to battlefield--

    'Crimson-footed, like the stork,
    Through great ruts of slaughter,'

and to whom the silent growth of institutions and the evolution of ethical sentiments and the
development of the arts of peace were matters which never presented themselves as worthy of
their attention. You may call this history if you will, in truth it is little better than Empiricism.
The world is a larger world than Rome or Athens dreamt of, and students of history are beginning
to realize that not quite the last thing they have to do is 'to look at home.' Such a work
as the 'Chronica Majora' of Matthew Paris is a national heritage which it is shameful to allow
much longer to be known only by the curious and erudite. Now that there is no excuse for our
neglect, is it too much to hope that the day may not be far distant when the name of this great
Englishman may become as familiar to schoolboys as that of Sallust or Livy, of Cornelius Nepos
or Cæsar--his name as familiar, and his writings better known and more loved?

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Lord Langdale resigned three weeks before his death.

[2] The proposal to print and publish the Calendars had been approved by authority of the new
Record Commissioners as early as January 1840. See preface to Mr. Lemons' 'Calendar' (Domestic,
1547-1580), p. viii.

[3] In Luard's sixth volume there are two facsimiles of certain coloured drawings of the more
precious gems at St. Alban's, with careful descriptions of them, these and the illustrations
being most probably executed by Mathew Paris himself.

Art.

Most travellers in France will have met occasionally in Paris and in the provincial towns a
school of boys walking two and two, and followed by a serious-looking superintendent of very
solemn deportment. The boys are in no marked respect different from other boys, but they are
orderly and well conducted. They are probably on their way to a church; and if you watch them,
you will see them march in with much propriety. The superintendent is evidently not an ordinary
schoolmaster; you would suppose that he is an ecclesiastic of some kind. He wears a loose black
cloak, a hat with a low crown and a portentous brim, and bands such as were much worn by English
clergymen till late years, and which, when strongly developed, were supposed to indicate a
sympathy with Calvanistic theology. Nevertheless, the solemn-featured young man is not an ecclesiastic,
neither is he a Protestant minister. He is one of the Frères Chrétiens, or Christian Brothers;
and the boys whom he has under his charge are pupils in one of the Écoles Chrétiennes, or Christian
Schools.

We will venture to assume, that some of our readers are not well acquainted with the story
and the principles of the remarkable institution known as the Schools of the Christian Brothers,
or with the life of their remarkable founder. We propose in this article to supply some information
upon the subject, not only because we think that such information will be interesting in itself,
but also because we believe that from the story of the work and principles of the French schools
of the Christian Brothers, we may proceed without difficulty, and almost by necessary consequence,
to some useful considerations with respect to English schools as now established and conducted
amongst ourselves.

Jean Baptiste de la Salle was born in Rheims, April 30, 1651. The house in which he was born
is still standing, and is regarded with reverence. He came of a noble family, which was originally
of Bearn. His grandfather settled at Rheims, of which he became an honoured citizen, but was
apparently in no way himself remarkable. His second son, Louis, was the father of a child,
who received the name of Jean Baptiste on the same day as that upon which he was born.

This child, whose career we purpose briefly to follow as that of the founder of the Christian
Brothers, exhibited early signs of a devotional spirit; he learned to recite the Breviary from
his grandfather, and continued to do so even before being bound to the practice by his ordination
vows; and he soon made it clear to himself and to others that his vocation was that of the
priestly office. His conduct as a student in the University of Rheims, which he entered at
eight years old, was marked by diligence in study and gentle docility.

Before he had reached the age of sixteen he was made a canon of the cathedral; such were the
strange ecclesiastical possibilities of those times. An aged relative resigned in his favour,
and died the following year. The preferment, however, did not spoil him; he looked upon it
as a call to duty. He was diligent in attendance upon the offices of the Church, diligent in
private prayer, diligent in study--in every way a remarkable boy-canon!

In October 1670 he entered the seminary of St. Sulpice in Paris, where, amongst other fellow-students,
was Fénelon, subsequently the great Archbishop of Cambrai. Little is recorded of his seminary
life, except that it was gentle, modest, blameless. In 1672 he lost his father, and in the
same year returned to Rheims to take charge of his younger brothers and sisters. The responsible
position in which he was thus placed seems to have shaken for a time his persuasion that he
had a true vocation for the priesthood; but after consultation with a friend who knew him well,
his doubts vanished, and on the eve of Trinity Sunday in this same year he was admitted to
the subdiaconate.

Then follow six years of quiet home work and retirement. During this time he attended the theological
course of the University, provided for the education of his brothers and sisters, and gave
himself very earnestly to prayer and good works. In the year 1678, on Easter Eve, he was ordained
Priest.

During all this time De la Salle's attention does not seem to have been turned to that which
ultimately became the great work of his life. As not unfrequently happens, the real bent was
given to his energies by what might be described as accidental circumstances. The friend whom
he consulted when in doubt concerning holy orders was one Canon Roland. This good man had interested
himself much about an orphanage for girls at Rheims, which had fallen under bad management,
and urgently needed reform. Canon Roland was taken ill just before De la Salle's ordination,
and, dying not long after, left the young priest his executor, commending to his special care
the orphanage just mentioned. De la Salle could not refuse the charge; it was not much to his
taste, but it was the bequest of his friend; it was the leading of God; and he girded himself
to the task. He applied through the Archbishop to the King for letters patent recognizing the
institution, and thus put it upon a lasting foundation; he bore the expense of the whole transaction;
then he supplemented the funds out of his own means; and having thus satisfied his obligations
to his deceased friend, he returned to his quiet devotional life. The thought that this orphanage
for girls would constitute a valuable training school for schoolmistresses seems already to
have crossed his mind.

Now comes the turning-point of De la Salle's life, and it comes in a curious way. There was
a certain rich, fashionable, and extravagant married lady living in Rouen, who, like the rich
man in the parable, was clothed in fine linen and fared sumptuously every day, while Lazarus
lay at the gate. One day a poor beggar, who had been harshly repulsed from the door, touched
the heart of a servant by his manifest misery, and was received into the stables, where he
died the same night. The dead man must needs be buried; so the servant went to the mistress,
confessed his fault, received some violent language and notice of dismissal, but at the same
time procured a sheet to serve as a shroud for the corpse. At dinner-time the lady perceived
the very sheet, which she had given for the burial, folded up and lying in her own chair; some
mysterious hand had brought back the ungracious present, as though the deceased beggar would
not receive a favour in death from one who had been so cruel to him in life.

This strange and apparently not very important occurrence changed the whole course of the lady's
life. She gave up all her old habits of magnificence and extravagance, lived the life of a
devotee, and soon succeeded in separating from herself all her old companions and friends,
who, in fact, deemed her mad. After her husband's death she became still more strict in her
habits, and devoted to the service of the poor a large part of her fortune.

Amongst other charities which she assisted was the female orphanage, of which we have already
spoken as having been cared for by Canon Roland, and after his death by M. de la Salle. She
conceived the idea of establishing something of the same kind for boys in her native town of
Rheims, and she consulted Canon Roland on the subject. Ultimately she engaged a devout layman,
named Adrien Nyel, who had experience of poor schools in Rouen, promised him maintenance for
himself and a young assistant, gave him a letter of introduction to her relative M. de la Salle,
and sent him to Rheims to open a school there for poor boys.

This school, which was commenced in 1679, was the germ of the great system of Écoles Chrétiennes.
Its success led a pious lady in Rheims to wish to establish another of the same kind in a different
part of the town. She consulted M. de la Salle, who had become patron of the first school,
on the subject; and thus he became, without any special wish or intention of his own, drawn
into the work of the education of poor boys. His own account of the matter is worth quoting:--

     'It was,' he wrote, 'by the chance meeting with M. Nyel, and
     by hearing of the proposal made by that lady [to whom
     reference has been made], that I was led to begin to
     interest myself about boys' schools. I had no thought of it
     before. It was not that the subject had not been suggested
     to me. Many of M. Roland's friends had tried to interest me
     about it, but it took no hold of my mind, and I had not the
     least intention of occupying myself with it. If I had ever
     thought that the care which out of pure charity I was taking
     of schoolmasters would have brought me to feel it a duty to
     live with them, I should have given it up at once; for as I
     naturally felt myself very much above those whom I was
     obliged to employ as schoolmasters, especially at first, the
     bare idea of being obliged to live with such persons would
     have been insupportable to me. In fact, it was a great
     trouble to me when first I took them into my house, and the
     dislike of it lasted for two years. It was apparently for
     this reason that God, who orders all things with wisdom and
     gentleness, and who does not force the inclinations of men,
     when He willed to employ me entirely in the care of schools,
     wrought imperceptibly and during a long space of time, so
     that one engagement led to another in an unforeseen way.'

This passage somewhat anticipates events; but it is convenient for the condensed character
of this narrative that it should be so. We will therefore briefly fill up the gap left by M.
de la Salle's own statement by saying, that he found the work of directing schools for the
poor increase upon his hands in a wonderful manner. The success of those which he visited and
superintended led to the establishment of others. Soon the masters themselves formed a small
body which required superintendence and guidance. He took a house in which he placed them;
the home of course needed rules for its orderly and efficient working; these M. de la Salle
supplied. But still all was not quite as it should be. Cathedral duties took up much of the
Canon's time; these duties were of primary obligation, and left comparatively little of the
day to be given to the superintendence of schoolmasters. But more than this, the difference
of station and comfort and habits between a well-endowed Canon of a Cathedral, enjoying in
addition a private fortune of his own, and poor schoolmasters taken from the humblest ranks,
and living in the most humble manner, was quite immeasurable. It was comparatively easy to
have the whole company to dine with him, and so to meet them half way down the social hill;
but this was not enough. M. de la Salle began gradually to realize the fact, that his great
undertaking of supplying schools and schoolmasters for the gratuitous education of the poor,
could only be crowned with complete success on the condition of his own adoption of poverty
in all its thoroughness. Accordingly he determined to resign his canonry and spend his fortune
upon the poor. Not altogether so easy a thing as might at first sight appear. Great opposition
was made by his friends: the Archbishop was unwilling to accept his resignation: nothing but
persevering determination on the part of De la Salle could have carried the business through;
but he was full of perseverance and full of determination, and in 1683 he at last succeeded
in divesting himself of his Cathedral preferment. The sale of his property, and spending the
money upon the poor, was an easier matter, especially as the year 1684 was one of dearth; in
the course of that year and the following he managed to get rid of all.

This parting with his money, instead of spending it upon his great work, may well seem to be
a conduct of doubtful wisdom; especially as at a later period much difficulty was encountered
for want of funds. But it is hard, and perhaps not justifiable, to find fault with a man, who
adopts the course of selling all that he has and giving to the poor, after using devoutly such
a prayer as the following:--

     'My God, I do not know whether to endow or not. It is not
     for me to found communities, or to know how they should be
     founded. It, is for Thee, Oh my God. Thou knowest how, and
     canst do it in the way which is pleasing to Thee. If Thou
     foundest them, they will be well founded. If Thou foundest
     them not, they will be without foundation. I beseech Thee,
     my God, make me know Thy will.'

Soon after the last livre was spent, De la Salle had occasion to make a journey in connection
with his work. He went on foot, as needs he must, and begged his way. An old woman gave him
a piece of black bread; he ate it with joy, feeling that now he was indeed a poor man. He had
at this time reached the age of thirty-three years.

Behold the Society of the Christian Brothers, and the Christian Schools, taking form at last
with De la Salle at the head! Let us examine that work and see how matters stand.

In the first place, so far as the founder was himself concerned, his life was one of asceticism,
but still more of prayer:--

     'He prayed by day and by night--his life was one incessant
     communion with God. He would fain have avoided even the
     interruption caused by sleep, and he grudged every moment
     given to it, because it shortened his time of prayer. He
     slept on the ground, or sometimes in his chair, and was the
     first to rise at the sound of the morning bell. While at
     Rheims he regularly spent Friday night in the Church of
     Saint Rémi; he made the sacristan lock him in, and there
     poured out his soul in prayer for help, and guidance, and
     success in his work.'

The Superior and the Brothers of course lived a common life. The great principle of bringing
himself exactly to the level of those who worked under him, which had led to his resignation
of his stall and the sale of his property, made it quite certain that he would not call upon
the Brothers to do or to bear anything which he was not willing to do and to bear himself.
But the burden was heavier to him than to them. They were poor men originally, accustomed to
hard work and rough fare; while he had been brought up in ease and plenty, and had never known
what want and poverty were. Consequently it cost De la Salle much effort and self-denial to
enter upon his new life; but he was satisfied with no half measures; the sacrifice was to be
absolute and complete; he fought the battle and gained it,--yet not he, but the grace of God
that was in him. At the first starting of the Society there was no distinct rule, but the following
arrangements were made:--

The food was to be substantial but frugal, fit for labourers engaged in hard toil; nothing
costly, nothing but what was necessary; on the other hand no special rigour of abstinence,
beyond that demanded of other Christians.

For dress was adopted a capote, such as was common in the country, made of coarse material,
and black; together with a black cassock, thick shoes, and a broad-brimmed hat.

For a name they chose that of 'Frères des Écoles Chrétiennes,' or, as commonly abbreviated,
'Frères Chrétiens.'

With regard to vows, De la Salle decided that they should take the three vows of poverty, chastity,
and obedience, but for three years only. They might make them perpetual the following year.

As to the Superior himself, he had little difficulty with regard to the first two points, for
his only possessions were a New Testament, a copy of the 'Initiation,' a Crucifix and a Rosary;
and to celibacy he was already committed. With regard to obedience, the fulfilment of the vow
was not easy to a man in his position; but he endeavoured to find a way to make this vow also
a practical one, by the method of resigning his post and putting one of the Brothers in his
place; this he ultimately succeeded in doing, though only for a short time.

We must leave to the reader's imagination the manner in which the work grew under such remarkable
auspices, the growth of M. de la Salle's reputation as a saint, and the constantly increasing
load of responsibilities of all kinds which rested upon his shoulders.

In the year 1688 the work extended to Paris. When De la Salle arrived there he left behind
him in Rheims a principal house containing sixteen Brothers, and a training college for country
schoolmasters, containing thirty men, besides fifteen lads in their noviciate. For the purpose
of his work in Paris he hired a house in the village of Vaugirard; this he occupied for seven
years, collecting the Brothers about him in their vacations, and making it a home for the sick
and weary, and a place where postulants might make proof of their profession. We shall not
follow his footsteps during this time, except to say that the work flourished wonderfully well
under his hand, as it always did, notwithstanding all kinds of difficulties. We may produce,
however, a striking document of self-dedication which belongs to this period. The Brothers
seem to have been strongly moved by the desire of making their vows perpetual, instead of only
for three years; the Superior opposed the innovation, but finding them resolute, he at length
gave way, and commenced the new system by a formal dedication of himself, expressed in the
following remarkable words:--

     'Most Holy Trinity, Father, Son and Holy Ghost, prostrate in
     deepest reverence before Thine infinite and adorable
     Majesty, I consecrate myself wholly to Thee, to seek Thy
     glory in all ways possible to me, or to which Thou shalt
     call me. And to this end I, Jean Baptiste de la Salle,
     Priest, promise and vow to unite myself to, and abide in
     society with, the Brothers [here follow twelve names], and
     in union and association with them to hold free schools in
     any place whatsoever (even though, in order to do so, I
     should have to beg for alms, and live on dry bread), or to
     do in the said Society any work which may be appointed for
     me, whether by the Community or by the Superior who shall
     have the direction of it. For which reason I promise and vow
     obedience as well to the Society itself as to the Superior
     of it. And these vows of association with, and steadfastness
     in, the said Community, and of obedience, I promise to keep
     inviolable during my whole life; in witness whereof I have
     signed. Done at Vaugirard, this sixth day of June, being the
     Feast of the Most Holy Trinity, in the year 1694.

    '(Signed) DE LA SALLE.'

Having taken this step, De la Salle made a great effort to divest himself of his post as Superior,
but in vain. He argued, but the Brothers were not convinced. He insisted upon an election,
and every single vote was given for him. He begged for a second voting, but the result was
the same. The Brothers said it would be time enough for them to elect his successor, when death
had deprived them of him. So in his post of Superior he remained; and doubtless the Brothers
were right, and he was wrong, as to the point in dispute between them.

Let us now look for a moment at the rule of the Christian Brothers in the complete form which
it ultimately assumed.

The first article sets forth the purpose of the Society as follows:--

     'The Institute of the Frères des Écoles Chrétiennes is a
     Society, the profession of whose members is to hold schools
     gratuitously. The object of this Institute is to give a
     Christian education to children, and it is for this purpose
     that schools are held, in order that the masters, who have
     charge of the children from morning to night, may bring them
     up to lead good lives, by instructing them in the mysteries
     of our Holy Religion and filling their minds with Christian
     maxims, while they give them such an education as is fitting
     for them.'

Thus the schools were to be free, and they were to be essentially and fundamentally Christian;
but there was no intention of making them exclusively religious and banishing secular studies.
On the other hand, the greater part of the time given to the children was devoted, as in reason
it must be, to secular teaching; and only a small portion retained for teaching of a more solemn
kind. No doubt De la Salle depended for the religious results of schooling more upon the men
who taught and the general atmosphere of his schools, than upon amount of religious lessons
actually taught and learnt: this is indicated by the following article of the Rule:--

     'The Brothers of the Society will have a very deep reverence
     for the Holy Scriptures, and in token of it they will always
     carry about them a copy of the New Testament, and will pass
     no day without reading a portion of it, in faith, respect,
     and veneration for the Divine Words which it contains. They
     will look upon it as their prime and principal Rule.'

Again:--

     'The spirit of the Institute consists in a burning zeal for
     the instruction of children, that they may be brought up in
     the fear and love of God, and led to preserve their
     innocence, where they have not already lost it; to keep them
     from sin, and to instil into their minds a great horror of
     evil, and of everything that might rob them of purity.'

The great purpose of De la Salle was to form men suitable for the work of education as thus
conceived; and one notable feature of his scheme was that they should be laymen; even with
regard to the Superior of the Society, De la Salle, though himself a Priest, bound the Brethren
down to a pledge that they would not, when he was gone, elect a Priest into his room. It is
needless to say that he had no prejudice against the priestly office as such; but he was genuinely
persuaded that the work which he wished to have done could best be performed by laymen; partly
because they could give themselves up to it more completely, partly because they could be had
more cheaply, and partly because poor men such as he enlisted, and intended to enlist, were
more thoroughly on a level with the poor, whose children he desired to educate. It was in the
same spirit that he forbade to the Brothers the knowledge of Latin.

There are five vows in the Society. Brothers who have not attained the age of twenty-five years
can take them for only three years. No one may take them even for three years, until he has
been at least two years in the Society, and has had one year's experience of the Noviciate,
and one year's teaching in the schools. The vows are as follows:--

    1. Poverty.
    2. Chastity.
    3. Obedience.
    4. Steadfastness.
    5. Giving gratuitous instruction to children.

By this last vow they also bind themselves to take all possible pains to teach them well and
to bring them up Christianly; and they promise neither to ask nor to accept, from the scholars,
or from their parents, anything, be it what it may, either as a gift, or in any other form
of remuneration whatsoever.

The rule of daily life is given by the following table:--

     4.30 A.M. Hour of rising.

     5. Prayer and meditation.

     6. Attend Mass, reading, &c.

     7.15. Breakfast; prayer and preparation for school.

     8 till 11. School, and children taken to Church.

     11.30. Particular examination of conscience; dinner and
     recreation.

     1 P.M. Prayer in oratory, and depart to various schools.

     1.30 till 5. School; half an-hour given to catechism.

     5.30. Spiritual reading and mental prayer. The reading
     begins with a portion of the New Testament, read upon the
     knees.

     6. Mental prayer, and confession of faults one to another.

     6.30. Supper; reading at all meals; recreation.

     8. Study of catechism.

     8.30. Prayers in oratory.

     9. Retire to dormitory; in bed by 9.15.

So much for the Rule of the Christian Brothers. It is sufficiently strict; but, as before remarked,
not intensified by any special austerities. The general order prescribed is, however, strengthened
by injunctions against unnecessary communications with persons outside the Brotherhood, unnecessary
possessions, unnecessary exercise of the will: the devotion to the rule is absolute, the poverty
complete, the submission of the will unbounded. Very wonderful all this, but quite true.

In connection with the rule, it may be well to say a few words concerning the manuals which
De la Salle composed for the guidance of the Brothers. The principal was a book entitled, 'Conduite
à l'usage des Écoles Chrétiennes;' this was circulated in manuscript, and a copy given to each
Brother in charge of a school, but was not printed during the author's lifetime. He revised
it in 1717, when he had retired from his post as Superior, and it was printed in 1720, a year
after his death. It has been the guide of the Brothers ever since, and is read through twice
a year in every one of their houses. The book shows great insight and good sense. Here is an
instruction for a lesson in arithemetic:--

     'After the children have done their sums on the paper,
     instead of correcting them himself the master will make the
     children find out their mistakes for themselves, by rational
     explanation of the processes. He will ask them, for
     instance, why in addition of money they begin with the
     lowest coin, and other questions of the same sort, so as to
     make sure that they have an intelligent understanding of
     what they do.'

When the subject is religious teaching, the tone of the book rises to the occasion:--

     'The masters will take such great care in the instruction of
     all their scholars, that not one shall be left in ignorance,
     at least of the things which a Christian ought to believe
     and do. And to the end they may not neglect a thing of such
     great importance, they will often meditate earnestly on the
     account which they will have to give to God, and that they
     will be guilty in his sight of the ignorance of the children
     who shall have been under their care, and also of the sins
     into which their ignorance may have caused them to fall.'

The faults which De la Salle regards as worthy of being treated with most severity are these:
untruthfulness, quarrelling, theft, impurity, misbehaviour in church. It is notable that idleness
and inattention to lessons, sauciness, and other boyish faults, which have brought much trouble
upon many thousands of urchins, are not here enumerated at all; probably the wise Superior
of the Christian Brothers thought that these and the like infirmities could be more successfully
treated by other means than by severe punishment. We incline to believe that he was right.
Certainly we shall have no difficulty in assenting to the wisdom of the rules laid down as
to the conditions of punishment being useful: it must be (1) disinterested, that is, free from
all feeling of revenge; (2) charitable, that is, inflicted from a real love to the child; (3)
just; (4) proportioned to the fault; (5) moderate; (6) free from anger; (7) prudent; (8) voluntary
on the part of the scholar, that is, understood and accepted by him; (9) received with respectful
submission; (10) in silence on both sides.

These samples must suffice to indicate M. de la Salle's practical and simple wisdom.

The thought of all that we wish to say before concluding this article compels us once more
to appeal to the reader's imagination with regard to the success of De la Salle's work. His
fame went through France and beyond it; he became the recognized apostle of elementary education;
when he made an expedition to Calais and the north in the latter part of his career, it was
almost a triumphal progress; nothing, however, could spoil the sweet simplicity of his character,
or interfere with his utter devotion to his work, and his humble desire to shift the burden
upon what he believed to be stronger shoulders than his own. This desire was at length accomplished,
and on the 8th of May, 1717, after much earnest consideration and religious observance, a second
Superior of their Society was unanimously elected by the Christian Brothers.

And now this remarkable man had nothing more to do in this world but to await his call and
to depart in peace. At the earnest entreaty of the Brethren he took up his abode with them
in their house at Rouen; and there, in the midst of increasing infirmities, and in the exercise
(so far as was possible) of his priestly office, he tarried the Lord's leisure. We give the
closing scene in the words of the interesting volume, the title of which heads this article,
and from which we have been drawing the materials of our sketch.

     'The Festival of St. Joseph, March 19, was approaching. He
     had always had a special veneration for that great Saint,
     whom he had chosen for patron of his Society, and he had a
     great wish to celebrate once more on that Festival. He could
     hardly have hoped to do so, for he had now for some time
     been quite unable to leave his bed; but in the evening of
     the 18th, about ten o'clock, his pain was unexpectedly
     relieved, and he was conscious of some return of strength.
     The night was quiet, and on the morning of the Festival he
     was able to crawl to the Altar, and to celebrate the Holy
     Mysteries in the presence of all the Brothers, who could
     scarcely believe their eyes. All that day he continued
     better, was able to converse with the Brothers, listened for
     the last time to their confidential talk, and gave them some
     last counsels. But the pain came on again, and he was
     obliged to go to bed.

     'The Curé of the parish, hearing that he was worse, hastened
     to visit him, and thinking from the bright cheerfulness of
     his face that the dying man was not aware of his own
     condition, said to him, "Do you know that you are dying, and
     must soon appear before the presence of God?" "I know it,"
     was the answer, "and I wait His commands; my lot is in His
     hands, His will be done." In truth, his soul dwelt
     continually in unbroken communion with God, and he only
     waited with longing for the moment when the last ties that
     bound him to earth should be severed. Several days passed
     thus. Feeling that he was getting worse, he asked for the
     Viaticum, and it was arranged that he should receive it on
     the following day, which was Wednesday in Holy Week. He
     spent the whole night in preparation, and his little cell
     was decorated as well as the poverty of the house allowed.
     When the time came, he insisted on being taken out of bed,
     and dressed, and placed in a chair, vested in a surplice and
     stole. At the sound of the bell announcing the approach of
     the Priest, he threw himself on his knees, and received his
     last Communion with the same wonderful devotion which had
     often formerly struck those who assisted at his Mass, only
     with even more of the fire of love in his face. It was the
     last gleam of a dying light, which was being extinguished on
     earth, to shine with undiminished brightness "as the stars
     for ever and ever."

     'The next day he received Extreme Unction. His mind was
     still quite clear, and the Superior asked him to give his
     blessing to the Brothers who were kneeling round him, as
     well as to all the rest of the Community. He raised his eyes
     to heaven, stretched out his hands, and said, "The Lord
     bless you all."

     'Later in the day he became unconscious, and the prayers for
     the dying were said; but again he revived. About midnight
     the death agony came on: it was the night of the Agony in
     Gethsemane. It lasted till after two: then there was another
     interval of comparative ease, and he was able to speak. The
     Superior asked him whether he accepted willingly all his
     sufferings. "Yes," he replied, "I adore in all things the
     dealings of God with me." These were his last words; at
     three o'clock the agony returned, but only for a short hour.
     At four o'clock in the morning of Good Friday, the 7th of
     April, 1719, he fell asleep.

     'As soon as the news of his death was spread abroad, the
     house was beset by crowds desiring to see him. All revered
     him as a Saint, and wanted to look once more on the
     venerable face, and to carry away something in remembrance
     of him. He had nothing belonging to him but a Crucifix, a
     New Testament, and a copy of the Imitation; but his poor
     garments were cut up, and distributed in little bits to
     satisfy the people.'

The Christian Brothers since the death of their great founder have steadily continued their
charitable self-denying work. They have received much encouragement from high authorities in
Church and State, much also from the good opinion which their work has gained for them wherever
it has been known. Their history, however, records reverses: the chief of them connected with
the catastrophe of the great Revolution. With regard to this, it might have been expected on
general grounds, that in a social upheaval, which was essentially a rising of the poor and
oppressed against the rich and the privileged, a society which had poverty as its foundation
principle, and the free education of the children of the poor as its only reason of existence,
must have been spared by general consent in the midst of the social ruin by which so much was
overwhelmed. At first it seemed that this might have been so; when the Religious Orders were
suppressed by decree of the National Assembly in 1790, exception was made in favour of those
engaged in public instruction and the care of the sick; but in 1792 all corporations, specially
including the Christian Brothers, were abolished, on the ground that their existence was incompatible
with the conditions of a really free State. During the Reign of Terror the Institute was broken
up, the Brothers scattered, and many suffered. There was a revival under Napoleon, which lasted
till the Revolution of 1830. At this time the Institute was shaken, as was almost everything
else in France; but the recognized merits of the Christian Brothers carried them safely through
the storm, and one of the most telling and triumphant facts in their history is the confidence
reposed in them by M. Guizot, when Minister of Public instruction under Louis Philippe. More
than once M. Guizot endeavoured, but in vain, to persuade the Superior to accept the Cross
of the Legion of Honour.

The work of the Christian Brothers in France at the present time is of special value; but also
carried on under much chilling discouragement. A systematic attempt is being made to secularize
education, and to drive every indication of religious faith from the primary schools. It remains
to be seen what will be the result of the fanatical opposition to all that is dear to the minds
of many French men and almost all French women, which is carried on so persistently by the
Legislature and the Government. Already there are signs of reaction; the result of the late
elections, which has substantially changed the proportion of parties in the representative
Chamber, is probably not a little connected with the enforcement of an utterly godless education.[4]
Meanwhile it would seem, as a matter of fact, that the number of children under the teaching
of the Christian Brothers has increased instead of diminishing: there are still some French
people left who have not bowed the knee to Secularism, and Materialism, and Atheism: even those
who tremble at Priestcraft can accept the ministration of the Christian Brothers, who cannot
(as we have seen) be Priests, according to their fundamental rule: and so, although the secularist
flood is just now frightfully high, there is a gleam of hope to be found in the work of the
Christian Schools, and the light which shines in them and from them may serve as a witness
for God till the tyranny be overpast, and then may perhaps serve as a light at which the torch
of religious teaching will be lighted again once more.

We have placed at the head of this article the title of one of the manuals in use in the primary
schools of France. It is worth studying in connection with the work of the Christian Brothers,
and on other grounds as well. The entire absence of all reference to God or to any kind of
religious knowledge or religious principle in connection with duty is startling, and gives
the book a complexion somewhat strange to an English mind; and there are portions which can
scarcely fail to strike an Englishman as droll; but is full of French ingenuity. It contains
a vast amount of compressed information, and the dry instruction of the text is enforced, or
rather sweetened and made palatable, by a series of stories in the form of a running commentary
or collection of foot-notes, in which the heroes of the stories illustrate the lessons which
the scholars have to learn.

We take two or three specimens from the manual, which we will present in a free translation:--

     OUR DUTIES TOWARDS OURSELVES

     'As you grow older, you become more serious. Consider what
     your duties are.

     'You have duties towards yourselves, that is, towards your
     bodies and towards your souls.

     'Sound health must be taken care of; weak health must be
     strengthened by a good hygiene.

     'Hygiene demands cleanliness; wash your whole body carefully
     and frequently.

     'Keep nothing dirty upon you, nor in your house, nor near
     your house.

     'Hygiene demands good air: air your bed, your chamber, and
     all places in which you live and work.

     'Hygiene forbids all excess, and the use of injurious
     things, as alcohol and tobacco. It prescribes temperance and
     sobriety.

     'Hygiene requires you to avoid a sudden change from heat to
     cold. When you are in a perspiration, do not lie down upon
     the ground, do not expose yourself to draughts, and do not
     drink cold water.

     'Hygiene requires gymnastic exercises, which make the body
     supple, healthy, and strong.

     'Attention to health gives a chance of long life.

     'In order to fulfil your duties towards your soul, you must
     continue to cultivate your intelligence and to educate
     yourself.

     'Do not forget that you can educate yourself at any age.

     'You must fight against sensuality, which would make you
     gluttons, drunkards, and debauchees; against idleness, which
     would make you useless to others and a burden to them;
     against selfishness and vanity, which would make others
     detest you; envy, which would render you unhappy and
     hateful; anger and hatred, which might lead you to all kinds
     of evil deeds.'

These lessons are enforced by an extract from the French Law, which informs scholar that the
persons found in a condition of manifest intoxication in the street or a public-house are punished
by a fine of from 1 to 15 francs; that for a second offence the punishment is imprisonment
for three days; and that for a third breach of the law the offender may be sentenced to imprisonment
for from six days to a month, and to a fine of from 16 to 300 francs. In addition to this,
the offenders will be declared incapable of exercising their political rights for two years.

This is a very practical teaching; but the duties which little boys owe to their bodies and
souls are rendered more attractive, than either the dicta concerning hygiene or the threatened
results of evil ways are likely to make them, by the history of a certain Dr. John Burnett,
a physician, who made an immense fortune in New York. This is found as a feuilleton at the
foot of the page, under the title 'Un Bon Charlatan.'

The pith of the teaching under the head of Morals, is contained in the following summary:--

     '1. I will fulfil my duties towards myself. My duties
     towards my body are, cleanliness, sobriety, temperance,
     precaution against the inclemency of the seasons, exercise.

     '2. I will fulfil my duties towards my soul by continuing to
     educate myself, and by combating all bad passions.

     '3. I will not do to another that which I would not that he
     should do to me.

     '4. I will not do him wrong, either by striking him, or
     robbing him, or deceiving him, or lying to him, or by
     breaking my promise, or by speaking evil of him, or by
     calumniating him.

     '5. I will do to another that which I should wish him to do
     to me.

     '6. I will love him, I will be grateful, exact, discreet,
     charitable.'

Very good resolutions these, but one cannot avoid the thought that the little scholar might
estimate 3 and 5 not the less, perhaps the more, if informed of the life and character of Him
who first spoke these apparent simple rules in such a manner as to impress them upon the heart
of the world. Would not all the resolutions gain strength from the belief that duty towards
God is the true spring of duty towards our neighbours and ourselves, and that the grace of
God is necessary to make the best resolutions practically operative in the life?

We will now give our readers a specimen of the tales by which the lessons of the manual are
illustrated and enforced. It shall be taken from the section entitled Society, the second subsection
of which is as follows:--

     'FREEDOM OF LABOUR.

     'In France; labour is free; every one employs, as he
     pleases, his intelligence and his arms.

     'You may choose any profession you please; but everybody
     else has the same right as yourself.

     'Competition is therefore permitted; never complain of
     competition.

     'If you hinder your neighbour from working as he pleases,
     you may yourself be hindered in like manner.

     'Competition excites the workman to do his best and at the
     cheapest rate.

     'Thus competition is advantageous to all. Never ask Society
     to interfere with the freedom of labour, but work hard
     yourself.'

These wholesome lessons on competition are illustrated by the following tale:--

     GREGORY'S VIEWS ON COMPETITION.

     'Our friend Gregory is a good husband; but he sometimes has
     little arguments with his wife.

     'The other day, Mrs. Gregory was angry, because she had
     found out that a shoemaker was going to establish himself in
     the village. "What do we want another shoemaker for," said
     she "when you and I are here already? The Government ought
     to prevent such things."

     'Gregory, who was at his work, lifted his head and said:
     "The Government ought to prevent women from talking
     nonsense. Suppose that I was the shoemaker who had just
     established himself in the village; what would you say if
     any one interfered with my carrying on my trade? You would
     not be very well pleased, I fancy."

     'He then explained to his wife the necessity of competition.

     '"There is plenty of work for everybody," said he. "If there
     had been already two or three shoemakers in the place, this
     new fellow would not have come to settle here. He would have
     seen that there was nothing for him to do. I am surprised
     that no competing shoemaker has come here before. You know
     very well that we have sometimes to refuse work, and that
     there are people in the village who have to go to the town
     to get their shoes. Beyond doubt the newcomer will take some
     of our custom; but it is our business to look after that. We
     must work better than we have done hitherto; and that's all
     about it."

     'Mrs. Gregory was not convinced, but she said nothing.

     '"You see," continued Gregory, "you must look a little
     beyond the end of your nose. You wish that there should be
     only one shoemaker in the place. The linendraper wishes that
     there should be only one linendraper; the grocer only one
     grocer; and so on through all the trades. Very well; don't
     you remember when we had only one linendraper how dear
     shirts used to be? And don't you remember some twenty years
     ago, when there was only one smith? You could never get hold
     of him; and when you did, his charges were tremendous. I
     recollect him putting a bell to our front door. When he gave
     me the bill, and I had seen the amount, I said to him, 'my
     good fellow, I didn't order a silver bell.' 'And I have not
     put up a silver bell,' was the reply. 'Oh! I thought from
     the price it must have been silver,' said I. This vexed him,
     and he answered, 'If you are not satisfied, go elsewhere.'
     That was well enough; he was the only smith in the
     neighbourhood. I could not send for a man from Pekin: he
     would have been sure to be lost on the road, and I should
     have been obliged to provide for his family."

     'Gregory made some other good remarks to show that if
     competition prevents a shopkeeper from selling his goods at
     a high price, it enables him to buy from others at a cheap
     rate. "So on the whole," concluded he, "do not let us fuss
     and make ourselves ill. I would much rather have some
     coffee, than be compelled to take medicine."'

Gregory must have had some of the saintly qualities of his great namesakes to enable him to
take so calm a view of the invasion of his shoemaking monopoly. We trust that Mrs. Gregory
was eventually convinced by his wise and philosophical arguments, and still more, that the
generation of Frenchmen who enjoy such teaching from their early years may emulate so bright
an example.

We cannot refrain from making one more extract from our little manual. The thirteenth section
deals with 'The Rights and Duties of the Citizen' and the third subsection treats as follows of:--

     'POLITICAL DUTIES.

     'The French people ought more than any other people, to
     respect the law made by its own deputies.

     'It ought without murmuring to pay the taxes voted by the
     Chambers, and to fulfil its military duties.

     'It ought to respect the authority of all the agents of the
     Government, from the lowest to the highest, from the garde
     champêtre to the Ministers and the President of the
     Republic, for the agents of authority are the servants of
     the law, and all are chosen directly or indirectly, by the
     deputies of the people.

     'The greater the rights of citizens, the greater their
     duties.

     'It used to be said, Noblesse oblige. This meant: a
     nobleman ought to behave himself better than another, to be
     worthy of his nobility.

     'It should now be said, Liberté oblige. This means that a
     free citizen ought to behave himself better than another, in
     order to be worthy of liberty.

     'You have the duty of putting your name upon the electoral
     roll at the Mairie of the Commune in which you reside.

     'You have the duty of voting, and you must vote according to
     your conscience.

     'You have not the right of being indifferent to public
     affairs, and of saying that they do not concern you.

     'You have an interest in securing to your Commune good
     Municipal Councillors, who will look well after the
     finances, will take care of the schools, and of the roads,
     and attend to all wants.

     'You have an interest in securing to your Department good
     General Councillors, who will do for the Department what the
     Municipal Councillors do for the Commune.

     'You have an interest in nominating good Deputies and good
     Senators, who may make useful and just laws, choose a
     President of the Republic worthy of that supreme honour, and
     keep the Government in good ways.

     'You ought to make a good choice, not merely for your own
     interest, but for the love of your country.

     'Love those republican institutions which France has
     provided for herself.

     'Endeavour to make them loved, respecting the while your
     neighbour's opinions, and restraining yourself from all
     hatred and from all violence.

     'The future of the Republic depends upon each of you. If
     each of you does his duty, it will be strong: strong enough
     to make our lives happy, and to restore to us one day the
     brothers whom we have lost--the BROTHERS OF ALSACE AND
     LORRAINE.'

This is the conclusion of the manual. All works up to ALSACE AND LORRAINE. (The capital letters
are in the original.) Is it not delightful? Is it not most truly French?

We should be sorry to see a parody or parallel to this French manual introduced into our schools.
At the same time we think there is something to be learnt from studying it. And after all it
is a great thing to get hold of a boy, whether it be by the loving and evidently self-sacrificing
efforts of the Christian Brothers, or by the ingenious mental food provided by the Minister
of Public Instruction. Notwithstanding such ingenuity, we do not, however, believe that the
present system of French teaching can answer: it is hollow and unsound: it ignores the deepest
of motives, and disregards the most potent of influences: it may breed a desire to fight with
Germany for the recovery of Alsace and Lorraine, but it can scarcely produce the highest class
of citizens and heroes, because it does not acknowledge the fear of God as the beginning of
wisdom, and the love of God as the best foundation of the love of man. The principles of duty
inculcated in the manual from which we have been exhibiting a few elegant extracts will never
rear such a character as De la Salle, nor supply the foundation of such an institution as that
of the Christian Brothers.

Let us beware, however, of exaggeration or alarmism. We do not at all desire to imply that
there is anything approaching to parallelism in the conditions and possibilities of the two
countries. Had it been proposed to do in England what has been done in France, the opposition
would have been indignant and overwhelming. There is no such desire for emancipation from Priests
and Priestcraft in England as has long existed and still exists in France. To be sure we hear
something on this side of the Channel of sacerdotal pretensions and unwarrantable clerical
claims; but the men by whom the offence comes are few in number, and, at the worst, they and
their conduct are but as a drop in the great bucket of the English Church and its influence
upon the nation. In France matters are painfully different. While the women are largely dévotes,
the men are very sparingly dévots. Unfortunately the admission of superstitious practices,
the practical hiding of Holy Scripture, the adoption under the patronage of the Church of foolish
tales of miracles, and the absence of effectual protest against the unwarrantable assumptions
of the Vatican, have combined to offer to the intellect of France an unnecessary obstacle,
which in too many instances causes shipwreck to faith; and so, while in England the men, who
make the laws, are, speaking broadly, Christian believers, in France the men, who equally make
the laws, are as broadly unbelievers. This difference is not likely to disappear. France has
reached a point at which the disease of unbelief may be said to have become chronic; England,
on the other hand, although there have been of late, and are still, symptoms of infidel proclivities,
appears nevertheless, so far as her condition can be tested to be sound at heart, and in some
respects in a more healthy state of religious conviction and activity than has been manifested
hitherto.

The question of the comparative conditions of France and England is one with which we have
no desire to enter at length; and indeed a native of one of the countries is very unlikely
to be in a condition to take a quite just and fair view of the other. We only desire to guard
ourselves from appearing to assume the probability of the secularization of our English schools
on the ground of the step having been already taken in France. And having premised this caution,
we will ask our readers to accompany us in the consideration of some details, suggested by
the Report of the National Society, and by that of the Committee of the Privy Council on Education.
Afterwards we will submit a few general reflections, and so close our article.

It was feared by some and hoped by others fifteen years ago, when the law of compulsory education
and School Boards was enacted in this country, that Voluntary Schools would undergo what was
described at the time as a 'process of painless extinction,' and that Board Schools would reign
supreme. These fears and hopes have been curiously falsified; the Voluntary Schools have not
been extinguished either painlessly or otherwise; on the other hand, they have increased, both
in work done and in support given, to an extent which could never have been anticipated. It
will be observed that the question is not purely and simply between Board and Voluntary Schools;
it may be so in some parishes, where with unanimity on the part of the parishioners, one Parish
School can be made to supply the wants of all; but generally the question is that of supporting
Voluntary Schools and paying towards Board Schools as well; the support of one does not exclude
the legal claim of the other, as it has been frequently argued that it ought in equity to do;
consequently Voluntary Schools are heavily handicapped, and nothing but a deep sense of the
advantage of freedom in religious teaching, and an utter dread of secularism, can account for
the remarkable results exhibited by the progress of Voluntary Schools under such manifest difficulties.

The following Tables are so exceedingly instructive, that we make no apology for introducing
them:--

Accommodation.

Day Schools, Year ended August 31      1882.       1883.       1884.

Church                               2,385,374   2,413,676   2,454,788 British, &c.       
384,060     386,839     394,009 Wesleyan                               200,909     200,564
203,253 Roman Catholic                         269,231     272,760     284,514 Board      
1,298,746   1,396,604   1,490,174

                                     4,538,320   4,670,443   4,826,738

Number on the Registers.

Day Schools, Year ended      1882.           1883.           1884.
       August 31.

                           £. s. d.        £. s. d.        £. s. d.
Church                   581,179  5  3   577,313 16  5   585,071 11 10
British, &c               75,132 11  8    71,519  2  9    72,978 10  0
Wesleyan                  15,705  2  2    15,271 14  1    16,802  2  0
Roman Catholic            51,283 11  7    51,564 15  2    57,672  1  2
Board                      1,545  2  2     1,420  1  3     1,603  7 10

                         724,845 12 10   717,089  9  8   734,127 12 10

From these Tables it appears that in spite of the surrender of some Church Schools to Boards,
a process which is always to some extent going on, and which causes an increase in the number
of Board Schools beyond that produced by actual building, the accommodation in Church Schools
rose in 1884 by 41,112, and the average attendance by 45,316. The Church was also educating
about half as many again as were being educated in Board Schools, and the amount voluntarily
contributed during the year was more than 585,000l., in addition to a large sum expended on
buildings and improvements.

This does not look much like speedy extinction, and we sincerely trust that that event is still
far distant. It is not so much that we are opposed to Board schools on principle, still less
that we disapprove of the national determination that every child shall be educated, which
logically leads to some national machinery involving the principle of Board Schools in some
form or other,--not so much this, as that we are persuaded that the existence of Voluntary
Schools is an unspeakable benefit even to the Board Schools themselves. We hold that a definite
system of religious teaching, according to which the religious studies of the school and the
secular are co-ordinate and equally regarded, and the religious atmosphere which such consideration
implies, are of the very essence of a rightly ordered school; the ideal may be reached in a
Voluntary School, it is impossible that it should be reached in a Board School; nevertheless,
there may be Board schools and Board Schools; in some there may be simple secularism, and in
others there may be a good religious spirit and fair religious teaching; and the degree in
which the average quality of Board Schools will approximate to the latter limit rather than
the former, will depend very much upon the standard set up by the Voluntary Schools. A reference
to the Report of the Committee of Council on Education proves that Voluntary Schools are worked
more cheaply, and, so far as can be judged by the results of examination, are secularly not
less successful than schools upon the Board system; and therefore even with reference to economy
there is some advantage in keeping the two classes of school going side by side. But all questions
of comparative economy, and of advantages arising from an honourable competition, are as nothing
compared with the reflected influence in the direction of bringing up the average religious
character of Board Schools to the highest point which the shackles of legislation allow.

In addition to the work of voluntary elementary schools, there are two other departments in
which voluntary efforts are doing much in support of the religious and Christian character
of English Education.

There are no less than thirty Training Colleges in connection with the Church. The pupils trained
in these Colleges are not in general bound by any rule to accept posts only in Church schools;
as a matter of fact, many are drafted into Board Schools; but it is impossible to exaggerate
the importance to the subsequent influence for good, in a school of whatever kind, of a thorough
religious training in youth upon definite religious principles. So far as an opinion can be
formed, it would seem that these Training Colleges must always rest upon a voluntary foundation;
it is difficult to conceive of their being carried on upon State principles; you may make religious
teaching optional in an elementary day school, and the evil results may be not easily perceptable;
but when eighty or a hundred young men or young women are brought together into one home, to
lead a common family life with common purposes and prospects, the religious equality principle
breaks down; you must have common religious teaching and common worship, and these must be
utterly vapid and miserable, unless there be a hearty agreement upon the grounds and articles
of faith, such as is only possible for those who are of one Church, or at all events of one
denomination. Doubtless on this very account efforts have been made, and efforts will be made,
to break down the Church Training College system, or to erect something on broader principles
which shall gradually extinguish it; but on all grounds we trust that these efforts may fail,
and that at all events no change may be introduced which shall be successful in rendering impossible
the carrying on of institutions, to which we are convinced that the education of the poor children
of England is indebted more than to almost any other. We have but been working out under new
conditions the great problem which De la Salle perceived to lie at the root of elementary education:
the forming of the instrument wherewith to do the work was, as he clearly perceived, the great
thing to be accomplished; and for that purpose personal influence was needed; it was necessary
to stir up in each young aspirant to the office of a teacher something of the enthusiasm of
teaching, to breed a high conception of the value and responsibilities of the office, to make
it felt that self-denial and self-devotion were essential conditions of any lasting success.
English Training Colleges differ very widely from that community which De la Salle established,
and over which he presided; in our opinion, they, at least their managers, might profit by
studying his work and emulating his spirit; but after all, they will still be widely different,
and any attempt at exact imitation amongst ourselves would perhaps produce a parody rather
than an adequate copy. Any one who can remember the early work of Derwent Coleridge at St.
Mark's, Chelsea, and the vast change which was brought about in the training of the schoolmaster,
the estimate of his qualifications, and his general status, by the admirable and laborious
efforts of that good and able man, will be conscious that a work has been done amongst us in
these latter days, upon which De la Salle himself would have looked with a kindly smile of
approval, though in some respects he might have imagined, and perhaps with justice, that it
was not so thorough as his own.

The other department of voluntary action to which we proposed to refer, is that which is known
as Diocesan Inspection.

This system of inspection is carried on by Clergymen, who are appointed with the approval and
in connection with the Bishops, and whose stipends are provided by voluntary contribution.
The action is not uniform throughout the Dioceses, but there is scarcely a Diocese in which
the work is not carried on with great energy. These Inspectors visit the schools, in some Dioceses
and Board Schools as well as those in connection with the Church; they examine the children,
confer with the masters and mistresses, give advice and encouragement as may seem to be necessary
and fitting, and make a report upon the general condition of the school with reference to religious
knowledge. In most Dioceses there is in addition some kind of prize scheme, by means of which
children are encouraged to give special attention to the religious side of their education.

We think it worth while to call attention to this system of Diocesan Inspection, because it
is well that Englishmen, and especially English Churchmen, should be awake to the religious
needs of our times, and the efforts which are being made to meet them. We are aware that all
such machinery as that which we have described must be ineffectual in implanting in the minds
of children that 'fear of the Lord,' which is 'the beginning of wisdom.' No system of inspection
and examination, and no careful grinding of certain lessons, whether they be taken from Holy
Scripture or from any other book, into the minds of little children, can be a substitute for
the true influence of heart upon heart; the teacher who would generate religious life in the
soul of a child must imitate the Prophet, who put his mouth to the child's mouth, and his eyes
upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands, and prayed that the child might awake to new life;
nevertheless on the supposition that no pains are spared in obtaining suitable masters and
mistresses, much may be done to encourage them in their difficult work by making it manifest
that the heart of England and of England's Church is with them. And indeed it is a difficult
work: the education of children will never be a simple and easy thing as long as the world
lasts: the value of the finished article may generally be taken as some measure of the labour
and care necessary to produce it: and the value of a pure, simple-hearted, well-taught Christian
child is so immeasurably and indescribably great, that we may safely conclude that the workmen
and workwomen employed in producing the result must have spent upon their work an incredible
amount of honest self-denying toil: a perfunctory discharge of the office of schoolmaster,--so
many hours a week, and so much pay,--will never do: the master of the Elementary School must
ever be a Christian Brother in reality, if not in name.

Passing for a moment from the religious side of the educational question, the reader may be
interested by looking at a few statistics, indicating the general position of England, or rather
England and Wales, with reference to elementary education.

In the year ending August 31, 1884, Her Majesty's Inspectors visited 18,761 day schools, having
on their registers the names of 4,337,321 children. Of these, 3,273,134 were, on an average,
in daily attendance throughout the year. The amount of income arising from school-pence, it
may be worth while noting, was 1,734,115l., or nearly two millions. The Government grants reached
2,722,351l., or nearly three millions.

Besides the day schools, 847 night schools were examined. In many parts of the country these
night schools were very important: they afford big boys the only opportunity of keeping up
their knowledge, or intellectually improving themselves. Nearly twenty-five thousand scholars
over twelve years of age are, on an average, in attendance each night.

There are nearly forty thousand certificated teachers at work; and 3214 students are being
prepared in forty-one Training Colleges.

The expense of education at different places varies remarkably, and apparently without any
intelligible principle. Thus the income per scholar from voluntary contributions in Voluntary
Schools, and from rates in Board Schools, is in certain selected towns as follows:--

                     Voluntary
                  contributions.         Rates.
                     £    s.   d.        £    s.   d.
London               0    9    0-1/4     1    9    9
Brighton             0   11    7-1/2     0   17    7
Birmingham           0    5    3-3/4     0   13   10-3/4
Bradford             0    2   11-3/4     0   13    2
Sheffield            0    2    4-3/4     0    9    8
Manchester           0    4    7         0   10   10

We submit the above figures and facts to the reader's consideration, and we are compelled to
confess that we do not find ourselves in a condition to offer a satisfactory solution of the
difficulties which they suggest. We should probably have expected that London would be in an
exceptional position with regard to this as to many other matters; but the magnificent manner
in which its Board contributions exceed those of any other town quite baffles us; it will be
observed that the odd shillings and pence of London more than pay the whole expense at Sheffield.
Possibly the practical difficulty of understanding this economical anomaly may have had something
to do with the results of the late Board election in London.

On the whole, we English people seem to be solving the national education question more nostro.
We have got a system not quite symmetrical, not quite logical, not the perfect exponent of
the crotchets of any particular school, but nevertheless one which has on the whole produced
remarkable results, and seems to have in it sufficient powers of adaptation and development.
Of late a new question has been opened--and an important one--namely, that of making elementary
education entirely gratuitous. There is something to be said in favour of the proposal, and
it is a pity that the merits of the question should have been somewhat obscured by the intolerable,
but to some persons perhaps attractive, suggestion that the additional expenditure necessary
for making education gratuitous should be supplied by the robbery of the Church, or (in politer
phrase) by the appropriation to the purposes of education of the national property hitherto
supplied to the support of religion. This cat can scarcely be said to have been let out of
the bag, for her head was no sooner seen peeping out than the alarm created was dangerously
great, and Puss was concealed again in a twinkling; but she is inside the bag still. A much
less objectionable proposal was speedily made, namely, that the deficiency created by the remission
of school-pence should be supplied by a Parliamentary grant. And this proposal, we presume,
may be regarded as at present before the country.

Looking upon the matter from a Chancellor of the Exchequer point of view, it is a serious thing
to think of having to make an addition of about two millions to the annual national expenditure;
and it may be observed that leading statesmen on both sides of politics may be found who are
at present unconvinced. Doubtless an expenditure of two millions would not be grudged by the
nation for any necessary purpose; but when the proposal is to substitute a payment of two millions
by the Exchequer for the two millions paid in driblets by the persons most interested, for
the most part gladly and with special provisions for preventing the payment pressing hardly
upon the exceptionally poor, it may well be that many sensible persons will ask the question,
Cui bono?

Independently, however, of any fiscal considerations, it seems to us that there are weighty
arguments against the proposal of a gratuitous education.

It may be observed, and we think it an important observation, that the proposal of free education
is in the teeth of all our recent policy; and some pressing reasons ought to be given for a
complete and sudden reversal of all that we have hitherto been doing. There are many free schools
in the country, endowed by 'pious founders,' and established for the special purpose of giving
free education to the children of particular parishes. Some of these schools have had to pass
through the hands of the School Commissioners and to receive new schemes. It has been, we believe,
the invariable practice to insert into these new schemes the condition of school-pence; the
portion of the endowment so saved has been applied to the foundation of exhibitions and other
methods of assisting deserving children. The inhabitants of the parishes in which this innovation
has been introduced have grumbled and submitted; it has in some cases been a bitter pill, but
the law-abiding character of the Englishman has caused it to be swallowed without noisy remonstrance.
We cannot, without raising a suspicion of having practised educational quackery, retreat from
the position which we have thus taken up.

What is the argument for the position? It is sometimes stated thus, that people value a thing
more when it costs them something to get it. The argument is not to be despised; but we think
that it yields in importance to the consideration, that the payment of the school fees is almost
the only indication left of the great truth, that the parent is responsible for his children's
education. We have sometimes trembled when we have seen in Board Schools directions concerning
the doings of the children, which would seem to have had a right to come from parents, but
which do in fact come 'by order of the Board.' We have almost feared lest in the Fifth Commandment
our boys and girls of the rising generation should be tempted to substitute 'Board' for 'father
and mother.' Certainly there is great danger in virtue of modern social arrangements lest parents
should forget their highest duties to their children, and children cease to honour their parents
in the good old-fashioned way. We confess, therefore, that we are jealous of the proposal to
take away from the father the proud privilege of paying for his children's schooling, even
though it may sometimes cost him an effort to do so.

It may be said, of course, that every man does pay indirectly, because he pays according to
his means to the taxes of the country, and that therefore the proposal only gives him of his
own. The argument is defective, because it ignores the fact that whatever a man may pay indirectly
in taxes, there is a conscious effort in finding the pence for the children's schooling, which
morally is of great importance. But the argument fails also on other grounds: it assumes that
all men have children equally; it asserts that the married man with his five children has no
more responsibility than the elderly spinster who lives next door; it supposes that the parents
have not a special interest in their children, distinct from that which can be felt by any
other person whatever. It may be further urged, that if a man pays for his children while they
are in process of education, the pressure comes upon him when he is in full vigour, and most
able to bear it; whereas if the payment of pence be commuted for a perpetual tax, the pressure
becomes one of a lifelong character, and is not relieved when the powers of earning begin to
diminish.

We do not deny that painful cases have occurred, and are likely to still occur, in which parents
are summoned before the magistrates for the non-attendance of children at school. But free
education will not get rid of these painful cases. Already arrangements are made by law for
the payment of fees for very poor parents who make the proper application; and if there be
any obstacle in the way of the smooth working of the law, the matter should be looked into
and the law amended; but the great difficulty in the way of good attendance on the part of
very poor children lies, as we apprehend, not more with school-pence, than with school-clothes,
and school-dinners. Attendance cannot be enforced completely all round, unless free education
comprise in its idea free food and clothing, as well as free books and lessons.

We cannot but fear also lest the remission of school-pence should be another step towards the
destruction of Voluntary Schools. It is evident that the proposal is so regarded; and though
it may not be difficult to find arguments to show, that if the loss from school-pence be made
up from the Exchequer, the compensation will work equally and fairly with respect to all schools,
whether Voluntary or Board, still there can be little doubt that the additional grant will
give a handle for proposing to introduce some more direct interference with the management
of Voluntary Schools than has existed hitherto: and it is probably a true instinct which leads
many friends of Voluntary Schools to look upon the free system with sincere apprehension. Certainly
the indirect abolition of Voluntary Schools would be a great calamity; and if the views already
expressed be correct, the abolition would leave a legacy of weakness, and a permanent injury
to the Board Schools, when they found themselves 'monarchs of all they survey,' and without
the wholesome rivalry of Voluntary Schools.

There was no such objection to the free education offered to his poor brethren by the hero
of this article, the sainted De la Salle. He made himself poor and bound all his disciples
to a life of poverty, in order that they might have fullest sympathy with the poor, and might
teach their children for no other payment or purpose but the love of God. The atmosphere of
a school conducted upon such principles would be so saturated with the spirit of holiness and
godly love, that there would be no danger of duty to parents, or indeed of any duty either
to God or man, being left out of sight. It would never be forgotten in such schools that the
formation of character is the chief aim of education: manners makyth man--as William of Wickham,
our great English father of liberal education, has taught us: and manners, taken in the broadest
and best sense, even more than the three Rs and all the extra subjects of all the standards,
is what we want in our elementary schools, and what we shall never get, except upon the condition
of a religious tone and a pure atmosphere, and teachers whose hearts are animated by the love
of little children and by the love of God.

We gladly turn once more, before laying down our pen, to the volume which we have already introduced
to the reader, and out of which we have told the tale of De la Salle, and the Christian Brothers.
We do so for the purpose of showing what kind of men these good Brothers are, when put to the
test in a severe and unexampled manner.

     'After the disasters of the Prussian invasion in 1871,' says
     our author, 'the City of Boston, in America, placed at the
     disposal of the French Academy a special prize of two
     thousand francs to be given to whoever should be judged most
     worthy of the honour, on account of services rendered during
     the siege and in presence of the enemy. The Academy could
     find no more fitting recipient of this distinction than the
     Community, which during the whole time of the war had sent
     five hundred infirmarians into the battlefields, one of whom
     had fallen under the fire of the Prussians, among the
     wounded at Bourget. Public opinion fully endorsed the
     decision, when the first literary body in the world adjudged
     this reward to the humble and despised corps of the Frères
     des Écoles Chrétiennes. At the same time the National
     Defence Government insisted on decorating their venerable
     Superior with a cross of honour. He would have refused it,
     as he and his predecessors had already done many times, and
     he only yielded when he was told that there was nothing
     personal in the honour; that it belonged to his Institute;
     and that it was only as the representative of the Society
     that he was asked to wear it. The eminent Dr. Ricord, who
     had been an eyewitness of the devotion of the Brothers, was
     charged with the office of fastening the cross on the
     cassock of Frère Philippe, in the great hall of the
     mother-house. This was the most embarrassing moment in the
     life of that man of God. He could not bear to wear the cross
     of honour, and in fact he never did wear it. When he
     returned after conducting the Doctor to the door at the end
     of the ceremony, he somehow managed that no one should
     perceive his decoration. The cross was not to be seen; and
     it has remained ever since as a kind of myth, or mysterious
     souvenir; it was never found.'

Thus in France Ministers of Public Instruction and Superiors of the Frères des Écoles Chrétiennes
agree in removing the cross from elementary schools: but how marvellous the distance between
the religious principles which lead to the two kinds of removal!

And now, in these days of payment by results, let us look for one moment to the Écoles Chrétiennes
from this point of view; and then we will bid the Brothers a respectful farewell.

     'For the last forty years a certain number of exhibitions or
     scholarships (bourses) have been offered by the City of
     Paris for competition amongst the scholars of elementary or
     primary schools, which give to the successful candidates a
     right of free education in the higher class schools. The
     number of scholarships which are offered varies. In 1848
     there were twenty-nine; in 1871, fifty; in 1874, eighty; and
     in 1877 the number was raised to a hundred. Competition is
     open to all elementary schools, whether taught by the
     Christian Brothers, or by lay teachers of no religious order
     or society.

     'The result, taking the thirty years from 1847 to 1877, has
     been that of 1445 exhibitions gained by scholars, 1148 have
     been won by boys from the Christian schools, and 297 by
     those from other schools. Or to take the last seven years of
     that period, during which every effort has been made by the
     Government, at a lavish outlay, to promote the efficiency of
     the secular schools, the results, though the numbers are not
     quite so disproportioned, yet show a marked superiority in
     the schools of the Christian Brothers. Out of 490
     exhibitions, 364 have been adjudged to their pupils, and 126
     to those of the secular schools.'

Well done, Christian Brothers! The Government was so well aware of this fact, that in some
of the departments the Catechism was ordered to be recited in the schools during the last week
before the elections, though only two months earlier the teachers had been strictly forbidden
to use it. This childish stratagem had, as might have been expected, no great success.'--Gabriel
Monod, in 'Contemporary Review,' of December, 1885.

Art.

In recent years a new tendency has been given to historical studies by the avidity with which
scholars have investigated the masses of State documents accumulated through centuries, almost
untouched, in the Record Offices of various nations. This tendency has been in the direction
of minuteness and accuracy of detail. The finer shades of policy, the subtler turns in the
game of nations, have been revealed by this intimate study of the documents which record them.
Among the archives of Europe there is none superior, in historical value and richness of minutiæ,
to the Archives of the Venetian Republic, preserved now in the convent of the Frari at Venice.
The importance of these archives is due to three causes: the position of the Republic in the
history of Europe, the fullness of the archives themselves, and the remarkable preservation
and order which distinguishes them, in spite of the many dangers and vicissitudes through which
they have passed. Venice enjoyed a position, unique among the States of Europe, for two reasons.
Until the discovery of the passage round the Cape of Good Hope, she was the mart of Europe
in all commercial dealings with the East--a position secured to her by her supremacy in the
Levant, and by the strength of her fleet; and, in the second place, the Republic was the bulwark
of Europe against the Turk. These are the two dominant features of Venice in general history;
and under both aspects she came into perpetual contact with every European Power. The universal
importance of her position is faithfully reflected in the diplomatic documents contained in
her archives. The Republic maintained ambassadors and residents at every Court. These men were
among the most subtle and accomplished diplomatists of their time, and the government they
served was exacting and critical to the highest degree. The result is that the dispatches,
newsletters and reports of the Venetian diplomatic agents, form the most varied, brilliant,
and singular gallery of portraits, whether of persons or of peoples, that exists. There is
hardly a nation in Europe that will not find its history illustrated by the papers which belong
to the Venetian department for foreign affairs. Nor are the papers which relate to the home
government of the Republic less copious and valuable. Each magistracy has its own series of
documents, the daily record of its proceedings: in this we find the whole of that elaborate
machinery of State laid bare before us in all its intricacy of detail; and we are enabled to
study the construction, the origin, development, and ossification, of one of the most rigid
and enduring constitutions that the world has ever seen; a constitution so strong in its component
parts, so compact in its rib-work, that it sufficed to preserve a semblance of life in the
body of the Republic long after the heart and brain had ceased to beat.

Admirable as are the preservation and order of these masses of State papers, it is not to be
expected that each series, each magisterial archive, should be complete. There are many broad
lacunæ, especially in the earlier period, which must ever be a cause for regret: for Venice
growing is a more attractive and profitable subject than Venice dying. During the nine hundred
and eighty-seven years that the Government of the Republic held its seat in Venice, the State
papers passed through many dangers from fire, revolution, neglect, or carelessness. When we
recal the fires of 1230, 1479, 1574, and 1577, it is rather matter for congratulation that
so much has escaped, than for surprise that so much has been destroyed. The losses would, undoubtedly,
have been much more severe had all the papers and documents been preserved in one place, as
they are now. But the Venetians stored the archives of the various magistracies either at the
offices of those magistrates, or in some public building especially set apart for the purpose.
The Secret Chancellery, which was always an object of great solicitude, containing as it did
all the more private papers of the State, was deposited in a room on the second floor of the
Ducal Palace. Many of the criminal records belonging to the Council of Ten were stored in the
Piombi under the roof of the Palace; and the famous adventurer Casanova relates how he beguiled
some of his prison hours by reading the trial of a Venetian nobleman, which he found among
other papers piled at the end of the corridor where he was allowed to take exercise. Soon after
the fall of the Republic, the following disposition of the papers was made. The political archive
was stored at the Scuola di S. Teodoro; the judicial, at the convent of S. Giovanni Laterano;
the financial, at S. Procolo. In the year 1815, the Austrian Government resolved to collect
and arrange all State papers in one place. The building chosen was the convent of the Frari;
and the work was entrusted to Jacopo Chiodo, the first director of the archives. The scheme
suggested by Chiodo has served as a basis for the arrangement that has been already carried
out, or is still in hand.

Under the Republic it was natural that access to important diplomatic papers and to secrets
of State should be granted with reserve, and only to persons especially authorized to make
research. The directors appointed by the Austrian Government showed a disposition to maintain
that precedent; and M. Baschet relates that it was only by a personal appeal to the Emperor
that he obtained access to the archives of the Ten. The Italian Government allow nearly absolute
liberty; and nothing can exceed the courtesy of the officials under their distinguished director,
the Commendatore Cecchetti.

Any attempt to explain the archives of Venice and to display their contents, must be preceded
by a statement of the main features of the constitution of the Republic upon which the order
and the arrangement of the archives is based. The constitution of Venice has frequently been
likened to a pyramid, with the Great Council for its base and the Doge for apex. The figure
is more or less correct; but it is a pyramid that has been broken at its edges by time and
by necessity. The legislative and political body was originally constructed in four groups,
or tiers--if we are to preserve the pyramidal simile--one rising above the other. These four
tiers were the Maggior Consiglio or Great Council, the Lower House; the Pregadi or Senate,
the Upper House; the Collegio, or the Cabinet; and the Doge. The famous Council of Ten and
its equally famous Commission, the Three Inquisitors of State, did not enter into the original
scheme; they are an appendix to the State, an intrusion, a break in the symmetry of the pyramid.
Later on we shall explain their construction and relation to the main body of government. For
the present we leave them aside, and confine our attention to the four departments of the Venetian
constitution above mentioned.

The Great Council, as is well known, did not assume its permanent form and place in the Venetian
constitution till the year 1296. At that date the famous revolution, known as the closing of
the Great Council, took place. By that act, which was only the final step in a revolution that
had been for long in process, those citizens who were excluded from the Great Council remained
for ever outside the constitution; all functions of government were concentrated in the hands
of those nobles who were included by the Council; the constitution of the Republic was stereotyped
as a rigid oligarchy. Previous to the year 1296, a great council had existed, created first
in the reign of Pietro Ziani (1172); but this council was really democratic in character, not
oligarchic; it was elected each September, and its members were chosen from the whole body
of the citizens. Earlier still than the reign of Ziani, the population used to meet tumultuously
and express their opinion upon matters of public interest, such as the election of a Doge or
a declaration of war, first in the Concione under their tribunes, while Venetia was still a
confederation of lagoon-islands; and then in the Arengo under their Doge, when the confederation
was centralized at Rialto. But of these assemblies the latter was disorderly and irregular,
and the former was of doubtful authority. It is from the closing of the Great Council that
we must date the positive establishment of the Venetian oligarchy, and the completion of that
constitution which endured for five hundred years, from 1296 till the fall of the Republic in 1797.

The age at which the young nobles might take their seats in the Council, that is to say, might
enter upon public life, was fixed at twenty-five, except in the cases of the Barbarelli, or
thirty nobles between the ages of twenty and twenty-five, who were elected by ballot on the
fourth of each December, St. Barbara's day; and in the case of those who, in return for money
advanced to the State, obtained a special grace to take their seats before their twenty-fifth year.

The chief functions of the Great Council were the passing of laws, and the election of magistrates.
But in process of time the legislative duties of the Council were almost entirely absorbed
by the Senate; and the Maggior Consiglio only retained its great and distinguished function,
the election of almost every officer of State, from the Doge downwards. The large number of
these magistracies, and the various seasons of the year at which they fell vacant, engaged
the Great Council in a perpetual series of elections. It is not our intention to explain in
detail the elaborate process by which the Venetians carried out their political elections;
such an explanation would carry us beyond our scope, which is to state the position and functions
of each member in the constitution of the Republic. But, briefly, the process was this. The
law required either two or four competitors for every vacant magistracy, and the election to
that magistracy was said to take place a due or a quattro mani, respectively. If the office
to be filled required quattro mani, the whole body of the Great Council balloted for four groups
of nine members each, who were chosen by drawing a golden ball from among the silver ones in
the balloting urn. Each of these groups retired to a separate room, and there each group elected
one candidate to go to the poll for the vacant office. The names of the four candidates were
then presented to the Council and balloted. The candidate who secured the largest number of
votes, above the half of those present, was elected to the vacant office. Thus the election
to the magistracy was a triple process; first, the election of the nominators, then the election
of the candidates, and finally the election to the office.

The Great Council, as representing the whole Republic, possessed certain judicial functions,
which were used on rare occasions only, when the State believed itself placed in grave danger
through the fault of its commanders. The famous case of Vettor Pisani, after his defeat at
Pola, in 1379, and the case of Antonio Grimani, in the year 1499, were both sent to the Grand
Council, who passed sentence on those generals. But, broadly speaking, the judicial functions
of the Maggior Consiglio hardly existed, its legislative functions dwindled away, and were
absorbed by the Senate, and its chief duty and prerogative lay in the election of almost every
State official.

Coming now to the second tier in the pyramid of the constitution, the Senate, or Pregadi,--the
invited, we find that the Senate proper was composed of sixty members, elected in the Great
Council, six at a time. The elections took place once a week, and were so arranged that they
should be complete by the first of October in each year. In addition to the Senate proper,
another body of sixty, called the Zonta or addition, was elected by the outgoing Senate at
the close of its year of office; but it was necessary that the names of the Zonta should be
approved by the Great Council before their election was valid. The Senate and the Zonta together
formed one hundred and twenty members; and besides these, the Doge, his six councillors, the
Council of Ten, the Supreme Court of Appeal, and many special magistrates, who presided over
departments of Finance, Customs, and Justice, belonged ex officio to the Senate, and brought
the number of votes up to two hundred and forty-six. Further, fifty-one magistrates of minor
departments also sat, with the right to debate, but without the right to vote.

The Senate was the real core of the Administration. The presence, ex officio, of so many and
such various officers of State sufficiently indicates the wide field which was covered by the
authority of the Pregadi. The large number of the Senatorial body, and the diversity of subjects
with which it dealt, required that business should be carried on with parsimony of time and
precision of method; and therefore private members were restricted to the right of debate.
Only the Doge, his councillors, the Savii Grandi and the Savii di Terra ferma had the right
to move the Senate; and their propositions related to peace, war, foreign affairs, instructions
to ambassadors, and representatives of foreign Courts, to commercial treaties, finance, and
home legislation. The various measures were spoken to by their proposers, and by the magistrates
whose offices they affected. As in the case of the Great Council, the Senate also on rare occasions
exercised judicial functions. It was in the discretion of the College to send a faulty commander
for trial either to the Great Council or to the Senate; but in that case the charge must be
one of negligence or misjudgment; if the charge implied treason, it was taken before the Council
of Ten. A few of the higher officers of State were elected in the Senate, among them the Savii
Grandi and the Savii di Terra ferma, and the Admiral of the Fleet. The functions of the Senate
were legislative, judicial, and elective. But just as the Great Council was pre-eminently the
elective body, so the Senate was pre-eminently the legislative body in the constitution of Venice.

The Collegio or Cabinet of Ministers, formed the third tier in the pyramid. The College was
composed of the following members: The Doge, his six councillors, and the three chiefs of the
Court of Appeal; these ten persons formed the Collegio minore, or Serenissima Signoria; in
addition to these there were the six Savii Grandi; the five Savii di Terra ferma, and the five
Savii da mar; a body of twenty-six persons in all, forming the College. Beginning with the
lowest in rank, the Savii agli ordini, or da mar, were, as their name implies, a Board of Admiralty;
but they acted in that capacity under the orders of the Savii Grandi upon whom the naval affairs
of the Republic immediately depended. The Savii agli ordini had a vote but no voice in the
College; this post was given, for the most part, to young and promising politicians; it was
a training school for statesmen: 'Officio loro,' says Giannotti, 'è tacere ed ascoltare.' The
office lasted for six months only; and so there was a constant stream of young men passing
through the political school, and becoming intimately acquainted with the affairs of the Republic
and the methods of government. How excellent that school must have been will become apparent
as we proceed to note the functions of the College of which the Savii agli ordini formed a
silent part.

Next in order above the Savii agli ordini came the Savii di Terra ferma. This Board was composed
of five members; the Savio alia Scrittura, or Minister for War; the Savio Cassier, or Chancellor
of the Exchequer; the Savio alle ordinanze, or minister for the native militia in the cities
on the mainland; the Savio ai da mò, or minister for the execution of all measures voted urgent;
the Savio ai Ceremoniali, or Minister for Ceremonies of State. These Savii di Terra ferma,
like the Savii agli ordini, held office for six months only.

The six Savii Grandi, who came above the Savii di Terra ferma, superintended the actions of
the two boards below them, and, if necessary, issued orders which would override those of the
other ministers. They were, in fact, the responsible directors of the State. The Savii Grandi
were required to prepare all business to be laid before the College, where it was first discussed
and arranged before being submitted to the Senate for approval. To facilitate this labour of
preparation, each of the Savii Grandi took a week in turn, and the Savio of the week was, in
fact, Prime Minister of Venice. It was he who read dispatches, granted audiences to ambassadors,
and prepared official replies. The Doge presided in the College, it is true, but it was the
Savio of the week who opened the business, and suggested the various measures to be adopted.

Besides these boards of Savii, the College included the Ducal Councillors, and the three chiefs
of the Court of Appeal. We shall speak of these latter when we come to the judicial department
of the constitution. The office of Ducal Councillor was, perhaps, the most venerable in Venice.
These six men held, as it were, the Ducal honours and functions in commission; they embodied
the authority of the Doge to such an extent, that without their presence he could not act;
he became a nonentity unless supported by four at least of his council; while, on the other
hand, the absence of the Doge in no way diminished the authority of the Ducal Councillors.
For example, the Doge without his council could not preside, neither in the Maggior Consiglio,
nor in the Senate, nor in the College, but four Ducal Councillors had the power to preside
without the Doge. The Doge might not open dispatches except in the presence of his council,
but his council might open dispatches in the absence of the Doge. Yet, great as were the external
honours of the Ducal Councillors, the office was rather ornamental than important. It was the
Savii Grandi who were the directing spirit through all the multitudinous affairs of the College.
As we have seen, those affairs embraced the whole field of government, except the field of
Justice. The College had no judicial functions, nor did it legislate. As the Maggior Consiglio
was the elective member, and the Senate the legislative, so the College was the initiative
and executive member of the State. The College proposed measures which became law in the Senate;
and the execution of those laws was entrusted to the College which had the machinery of State
at its disposal. It is this right of initiating which distinguishes the College; and it is
just upon this point that the Ducal Councillors appear to have a slight pre-eminence; for the
Doge, his council, and the Savii alone, had the right to initiate in the Senate; the Doge,
his council, and the chiefs of the Ten alone, had the right to initiate in the Council of Ten;
the Doge and his council alone had the right to initiate in the Maggior Consiglio. The Doge
and his council alone move through all departments of government, presiding and initiating,
embodying the spirit of the Republic; and yet in no case is their power great; for the Savii
had more influence in the Senate, the Chiefs of the Ten in the Council of Ten; and the Great
Council, where the Doge and his councillors had the field to themselves, was of little importance
in the direction of affairs.

At the apex of the constitutional pyramid we find the Doge. The Doge also had his distinctive
functions in the State; his duties were ornamental rather than administrative. Though all the
acts of the Government were executed in his name, laws passed, dispatches sent, treaties made,
and war declared, yet it is not in these departments that the Doge stands pre-eminent; it is
throughout the pomp and display of the Republic that he is supreme; and the archive wherein
his glory shows most brightly is the Ceremoniali.

The Doge was elected for life. When a Doge died, the eldest Ducal Councillor filled the office
of Vice-Doge until the election of the new Prince. The remains of the deceased Doge were laid
out in the Chamber of the Pioveghi, on the first floor of the Ducal Palace, dressed in robes
of State, the mantle of cloth of gold and the ducal beretta. Twenty Venetian noblemen were
appointed to attend in the chapelle ardente. On the third day the Doge was buried; and the
Great Council on the same day elected the officers who were to revise the coronation oath,
and to render its provisions more stringent if the conduct of the deceased had revealed any
point where a future Doge could exercise even the smallest independence in constitutional matters.
At the same time the Council elected another body of officers, who were required to examine
the conduct of the late Doge, and, if he had violated his coronation oath, his heirs paid the
penalty by a fine. Immediately after the appointment of these officers, the Maggior Consiglio
proceeded to create the forty-one electors to the dukedom. The process of election was long
and intricate, and occupied five days at the least; for there was a quintuple series of ballots
and votings to be concluded before the forty-one were finally chosen. When the forty-one noblemen
had been appointed they were taken to a chamber specially prepared for them, where, as in the
case of a papal election, they were obliged to stay until they had determined upon the new
Doge. They were bound by oath never to reveal what took place inside this election chamber.
But this oath was not always observed in the spirit; and memoranda of the proceedings of the
forty-one are still preserved in the private archives of the Marcello family. The first step
was to elect three priors, or presidents, and two secretaries. The presidents took their seats
at a table on which stood a ballot-box and an urn. The secretaries gave to every elector a
slip of paper, upon which each one wrote the name of the man whom he proposed as Doge. The
forty-one slips of paper were then placed in the urn, and one was drawn out at hazard. If the
noble, whose name was written upon the slip, chanced to be an elector, he was required to withdraw.
Then each of the electors was at liberty to attack the candidate, to point out defects and
recal misdeeds. These hostile criticisms, which covered the whole of a candidate's private
life, his physical qualities and his public conduct, were written down by the secretaries,
and the candidate was recalled. The objections urged against him were read over to the aspirant,
without the names of the urgers appearing, and he was invited to defend himself. Attack and
defence continued till no further criticisms were offered, and then the name of the candidate
was balloted before the priors. If it received twenty-five favourable votes, its owner was
declared Doge; if less than twenty-five, a fresh name was drawn from the urn, and the whole
process was repeated until some candidate secured the necessary five-and-twenty votes. As soon
as this issue was reached, the Signoria was informed of the result, and the new Doge, attended
by the electors, descended to Saint Mark's, where, from the pulpit on the left side of the
choir, the Prince was shown to the people, and where, before the high altar, he took the coronation
oath and received the standard of Saint Mark. The great doors of the Basilica were then thrown
open, and the Doge passed in procession round the Piazza and returned to the Porta della Carta.
At the top of the Giants' Stair the eldest Ducal Councillor placed the beretta on his head,
and he was brought to the Sala dei Pioveghi, where the late Doge had lain in state, and where
he too would one day come. Then the Doge retired to his private apartments, and the ceremony
of election closed.

As we have already observed, the position of the Doge in the Republic of Venice was almost
purely ornamental. The Doge presided, either in person or by commission through his councillors,
at every Council of State; he presided, however, not as a guiding and deliberating chief, but
as a symbol of the Majesty of Venice. He is there not as an individual, a personality, but
as the outward and visible sign of an idea, the idea of the Venetian oligarchy. The history
of the personal authority of the Doge falls into three periods. A period of great vigour and
almost despotic power dates from the foundation of the Dukedom, in the year 697, down to the
reign of Pietro Ziani in 1172. During this first period, the Ducal authority showed a tendency
to become concentrated, and almost hereditary in the hands of one or two powerful families.
For example, we have seen Doges of the Partecipazio house, five Doges of the Candiani, and
three of the Orseoli. But the rivalry and balanced power of these great families eventually
exhausted one another, and preserved the Dukedom of Venice from ever becoming a kingdom. A
second period extends from the year 1172 down to 1457, and is marked by the emergence of the
great commercial houses, and the development of the oligarchy upon the basis of a Great Council.
The aristocracy during this period were engaged in excluding the people from any share in the
government, and in curbing and finally crushing the authority of the Doge. The steps in this
process are indicated by the closing of the Great Council, the revolution of Tiepolo, the trials
of Marino Faliero, Lorenzo Celsi, and the Foscari. The third period covers what remains of
the Republic, from 1457 down to 1797. During this period the Doge was little other than the
figurehead of the Republic; the point of least weight and greatest splendour; the brilliant
apex to the pyramid of the Venetian constitution.

So far, then, we have examined the four tiers in the original structure of the constitution,
the Doge, the College, the Senate, and the Great Council; and we have seen that, broadly speaking
these were, respectively, ornamental, initiative and executive, legislative, and elective.
But this pyramid of the constitution was not perfectly symmetrical; its edges were broken.
This interruption of outline was caused by the Council of Ten. The exact position in the Venetian
constitution occupied by this famous Council, and its relations to the other members of the
government, have proved a constant source of difficulty and error to students of Venetian history.
Leaving aside the obscure problem of the origin of the Ten, it is still possible for us to
indicate the constitutional necessity which called that Council into existence. As we have
pointed out, the College could not act on its own responsibility without the Senate; the Senate
could not initiate without the College, for the preparation of all affairs passed through the
hands of the College. To establish connection between these two branches of the administration
was a process that required some time; it could not be done swiftly and secretly. In all crises
of political importance, whether home or foreign, some instrument, more expeditious than the
Senate, was required to sanction the propositions of the College. That instrument, acting swiftly
and secretly, with a speed and secrecy impossible in so large a body as the Senate, was created
with the Council of Ten. The Ten were an extraordinary magistracy, devised to meet unexpected
pressure upon the ordinary machine of government. The emergence of the Ten proves this view.
Without determining whether the Council existed previous to the year 1310, we may take that
year as the date of its first appearance as a potent element in the State. The rebellion of
Tiepolo and Querini, an aristocratic revolt against the growing power of the new commercial
nobility, paralysed the ordinary machinery of State, and revealed the danger inherent in a
large and slow-moving body of rulers. The Ten were called to power, just as the Romans created
the Dictatorship, in order to save the State in a dangerous crisis.

The place of the Ten in the constitutional structure is below the College and parallel with
the Senate. Below the College the administration bifurcates, the ordinary course of business
flows through the Senate, the extraordinary through the Ten. The Ten possessed an authority
equal to that of the Senate; the choice of which instrument should be used, rested with the
College. The Ten appear to be of more importance than the Senate, solely because they were
used upon more critical and dramatic occasions. Wherever the machinery of the College and Senate
moves too slowly, we find the swifter machinery of the College and the Ten in motion. And so
not only in political affairs, home and foreign, but also in affairs financial and judicial,
the Council of Ten takes its part. The Ten, as being the readier instrument to the hands of
the College, gradually absorbed more and more of the functions which originally belonged to
the Senate. This process of absorption, and the extension of the province of the Ten, is marked
by the establishment of its sub-commissions, that took their place in every department side
by side with the delegations of the Senate and the ordinary magistrates. In politics and foreign
affairs there is the famous office of the Three Inquisitors of State. In the region of Justice
all cases of treason and coining, and certain cases of outrage on public morals, came before
the Ten; and it was always open to the College to remove a case from the ordinary courts to
the Ten, when State reasons rendered it expedient to do so. In the Police department the Esecutori
contro la Bestemmia, and in Finance the Camerlenghi, were officers of that Council. In the
War Office the artillery was under their control; and in the arsenal certain galleys, marked
C.X., were always at their disposal.

These five great members of the State, four regular and one irregular, formed the political
and legislative departments of the Venetian Government. It would require too many details to
give a similar account of the Judicial, Educational, and Religious machinery.

One of the most remarkable features in the Venetian constitution is the infinite subdivision
of government, and the number of offices to be filled. Nobles alone were eligible for the majority
of these offices, and if we consider how small a body the Great Council really was, it is clear
that the larger number of Venetian noblemen must have been employed in the service of the State
at some time in their lives. The great political and administrative activity which reigned
inside the comparatively small body that formed the ruling caste, as compared with the absolute
stagnation and quiet which marked the life of the ordinary citizen, is one of the most noteworthy
points in the history of Venice. Every noble above the age of twenty-five was a member of the
Maggior Consiglio; every week that council had to fill up some office of State, had some new
candidate before it. The tenure of all offices, except the Dukedom and the Procuratorship of
St. Mark, was so brief, rarely exceeding a year, or sixteen months, that the fret and activity
of elections must have been nearly incessant. This constant unrest bore its fruit in perpetual
intrigues, and the censors were appointed to check the rampant canvassing and bribery. But
the main point which is impressed upon us is the universality of political training to which
all the nobles of Venice were subjected. No matter how frivolous a young patrician might be,
he would be obliged to sit in the Great Council; he would be called upon to assist in electing
the Ten, whose omniscience and severity he had every reason to dread; he might even find himself
named to fill some minor post. It was impossible, under these circumstances, that he should
fail to be educated politically, or that he should ever lose the keenest interest in every
movement of the State. It is to this political activity that we may possibly look for one of
the reasons which conduced to that extraordinary longevity which the constitution of Venice
displayed.

Each of the Government offices, many as they were, possessed its own collection of papers.
These are either still in loose sheets, just as they left the office, or bound in volumes.
They are indicated by the name of the Government department, the subject dealt with, and the
date. The pages are of three kinds; first, there are the files or filze, the original minutes
of the Board, written down in actual Council by the secretaries, and with the filze are the
dispatches or other documents upon which the Council took measures. In many of the more important
departments, such as the Senate, the Ten, or the College, these filze were epitomized; the
substance of each day's business was written out in large volumes known as Registri; each entry
was signed by the secretary who had made the digest, and was accepted as authentic for all
purposes of reference. These registers are, in many cases, of the greatest value where the
files have been destroyed or lost. They were more constantly in use, and therefore more carefully
preserved; and now they frequently form our sole authority for certain periods. As a rule the
registers are very full and good; they contain all that is of importance in the files; but
in making research upon any point it is never safe to ignore the files where they exist. In
some cases the secretaries made a further digest of the registers in volumes known as Rubrics,
which contain in brief the headings of all materials to be found in the registers. As the registers
sometimes supply the place of lost files, so the rubrics are occasionally our only authority
where registers and files are both missing. The rubrics are often of the highest value. As
an instance, we may cite the twenty volumes of rubrics to the dispatches from England between
the years 1603 and 1748. The method of research, therefore, where all three kinds of documents
exists is this, to examine first the rubrics, then the registers, and then the files. But the
infinite subdivisions of the Government offices in Venice render the task of research somewhat
bewildering; and a student cannot be certain that he has exhausted all the information on his
subject, until he has examined a large number of these minor offices. He will probably find
some notice of the point he is examining in the papers of the Senate or of the Ten, and, if
it be a matter of home affairs, he can trace it thence through the various magistracies under
whose cognizance it would come; or if it be a matter of foreign policy, he will find further
information in the papers of the College.

Under the Republic these collections of State papers were not known as archives, but as chancelleries.
The collections of highest interest, the papers to which the student is most likely to turn
his attention, are those relating to the ceremony, to the home, and to the foreign policy of
Venice. These three groups are contained in the Ducal, the Secret, and the Inferior Chancelleries.
The three chancelleries were committed to the charge of the Grand Chancellor and his staff
of secretaries, who received, arranged, and registered the official papers as they issued from
the various Councils of State. The Grand Chancellor was not a patrician; he was chosen from
that upper class of commoners known as cittadini originarii, an inferior order of nobility,
ranking below the governing caste, but bearing coat armour. The office of Grand Chancellor
was of great dignity and antiquity, and was held for life. The Chancellor was head and representative
of the people, as the Doge was head and representative of the patricians; and, when the nobility
began to exclude the people from all share in the government, the Grand Chancellor was allowed
to be present at all sessions of the Great Council and of the Senate as the silent witness
of the people, confirming the acts of the Government, and bridging, though by the finest thread,
the gulf that otherwise separated the governed from the governing. The part which the Grand
Chancellor took in the business of the Maggior Consiglio and of the Senate was a constant and
an active part. It was his duty to superintend the arrangements for every election, to direct
the secretaries in attendance, to announce the names of the candidates for office, and to proclaim
the successful competitor. His seat in the Great Council Hall was on the left-hand of the Doge's
daïs, and his secretaries sat below him. But the custody of the State papers was by far the
most important function which the Grand Chancellor had to perform. To assist him in these labours
he was placed at the head of a large College of Secretaries, trained in a school especially
established to fit them for their duties. In the year 1443 a decree of the Great Council required
the Doge and the Signoria to elect each year twelve lads to be taught Latin, rhetoric and philosophy,
and the number of the pupils was gradually increased. From this school they passed out by examination,
and became first extra-ordinaries and ordinaries, called Notaries Ducal, then secretaries to
the Senate, and finally secretaries to the Ten. The post of secretary was one which required
much diligence and discretion. The secretaries were in constant attendance on the various Councils
of State, and thus became intimately acquainted with all the secret affairs of the Republic.
They were frequently sent on delicate missions. It was a secretary of the Ten who brought Carmagnola
to Venice to stand his trial; and, as we shall presently relate, it was a secretary of the
Senate who announced to Thomas Killigrew, the English Minister, his dismissal from Venice.
The secretaries were sometimes accredited as Residents to foreign Courts, though they were
not eligible for the post of Ambassador. Inside the Chancellery the secretaries were entirely
at the disposal of the Grand Chancellor, and their duties were to study, to invent, and to
read cipher; to transcribe the registers and rubrics; to keep the annals of the Council of
Ten, and to enter the laws in the statute book.

We may now turn our attention to the principal series of State papers which issued from the
five great members of the Constitution, the Maggior Consiglio, the Senate, the Ten, the College,
and the Doge, and show how these papers were arranged under the three Chancelleries of which
we have spoken.

The Cancelleria Inferiore was preserved in one large room near the head of the Giants' Staircase
in the Ducal Palace, and was entrusted to the care of the Notaries Ducal, the lowest order
of secretaries. The documents in this Chancellery related chiefly to the Doge; his rights,
his official possessions, his restrictions, and his state. Among these papers, accordingly,
we find the coronation oaths, the Reports of the Commissioners appointed to examine those oaths,
and the Reports of the Commissioners appointed to review the life of each Doge deceased. This
series is valuable as revealing the steps by which the aristocracy slowly curtailed the personal
authority of the Doge, and bound his office about with iron fetters, and crushed his power.
In addition to these papers the Inferior Chancellery contained the documents relating to the
dignitaries of St. Mark's in its capacity as Ducal Chapel; the order and ceremony of the Ducal
household; the expenditure of the Civil List; and the archives of the Procurators of Saint
Mark, which contained the will, trusts, and bequests of private citizens.

The Ducal Chancellery, which the Council of Ten once called 'cor nostri status,' was preserved
on the upper floor of the palace, and was reached by the Scala d'oro. The papers were arranged
in a number of cupboards surmounted by the arms of the various Grand Chancellors who had presided
in that office. The documents of the Ducal Chancellery are of far higher importance than those
contained in the Cancelleria Inferiore; they consist of political papers which it was not necessary
to keep secret. Among the many interesting series of documents which fell to the Ducal Chancellery,
the most valuable are the 'Compilazione delle Leggi,' or statute-books distinguished by the
various colours of their bindings--gold, roan, and green--to mark the statutes which relate
to the Maggior Consiglio, the Senate, and the College respectively; the Secretario alle voci,
or record of all elections in the Great Council; the Libri gratiarum, or special privileges.
But most important of all is the great series of documents which include the whole legislation
of the State relating to Venetian affairs on sea and land. Of this vast series those marked
Terra contain 3128 volumes of files, 411 volumes of registers, and 7 volumes of rubrics; those
marked Mar number 1286 volumes of files, 247 volumes of registers, and 7 volumes of rubrics.
It will easily be seen how important the Ducal Chancellery is both for the verification of
dates, and also as displaying so large a tract of the Venetian home administration.

But important as the Ducal Chancellery undoubtedly is, it cannot vie in interest with the Cancelleria
Secreta, which might, with every justice, have been called 'cor nostri status', for it is in
the papers of that Chancellery that the long history of the growth, splendour, and decline
of the Republic is to be traced in all its manifold details and complicated relations. The
Secret Chancellery was established by a decree of the Great Council in the year 1402. Its object
was to preserve those papers of the highest State importance, from the publicity to which the
Ducal Chancellery was exposed. The regulation of the Secret Chancellery was undertaken by the
Council of Ten, and the rigorous orders which they issued from time to time abundantly prove
the difficulty they experienced in securing the secrecy which they desired. The Secret Chancellery
became the depository of all State papers of great moment; and if we take the chief members
of the constitution in order, and note the documents issuing from them which fell to the custody
of the Secreta, we shall see how the great flow of Venetian history is to be followed here
rather than in any other department of the archives.

To begin with the Maggior Consiglio, we have the long series of registers containing the deliberations
of the Council from the year 1232 down to the fall of the Republic in 1797, occupying forty-two
volumes, and distinguished, at first, by such capricious names as Capricornus, Philosus, Presbiter,
and Fronesis; and later on by the names of the secretaries who prepared them, Ottobonus primus,
Ottobonus filius, Busenellus, and Vianolus. In the special archive of the Avogadori di Commun
a contemporary series of registers is to be found; it covers from 1232 to 1547, and should
be consulted together with the first series, for it is more voluminous and minute. The first
reference to England that occurs in the Venetian archives is in the volume Fronesis (1318-1385).
This, and all other documents relating to Great Britain, have been collected and rendered accessible
in the splendid and monumental series of the 'Calendar of State Papers,' edited with such diligence
and care by the late Mr. Rawdon Brown. Mr. Brown's published work goes down to the year 1552;
and it is only after that date that any work relating to England remains to be done. That work,
however, is voluminous, for the regular and unbroken series of dispatches from England does
not begin till the reign of James I. Little more respecting England is to be expected from
the papers of the Great Council, however; for at the date where Mr. Brown's work ends, the
Maggior Consiglio had ceased to occupy a high position in the direction of Venetian foreign
policy; its functions were chiefly confined to the election of magistrates.

The Senate supplied a far larger number of papers to the Secret Chancellery than that yielded
by the Great Council. This was to be expected, owing to the central position of the Senate
in the constitution, and its prominent place in the management of Venetian policy, home and
foreign. The oldest documents in the archives of Venice belong to the Senate. They are contained
among the volumes of Pacts or treaties, seven in number, without including the volume Albus,
which is devoted to treaties between the Republic and the Eastern Empire, nor the volume Blancus,
which contains the treaties between Venice and the Emperors of the West. The thirty-three volumes
of Commemoriali formed a sort of commonplace book for the use of statesmen; in them were registered
briefly the most important events and abstracts of principal documents which passed through
the hands of the Government. The Commemoriali cover the years 1293 to 1797; but after the middle
of the sixteenth century they were neglected, and they are chiefly valuable down to that date
only. After the Patti and Commemoriali we begin the record of the regular proceedings in the
Senate. This series contains papers relating to home government, foreign policy, the dominions
of Venice on the mainland, in Dalmatia and the Levant, ecclesiastical matters, relations with
Rome, instructions to ambassadors and reports from governors. So widely spread and so varied
were the attributes of the Senate, that the analysis of a single day's proceedings in that
house would prove most instructive to the student of the Venetian constitution, and would,
in all probability, bring him into contact with a large number of the leading magistracies
of the Republic. The series of senatorial papers proceeds in almost unbroken completeness from
the year 1293 down to the close of the Republic; and counting files, registers and rubrics,
numbers 1599 volumes. This main series is known by different names at different periods, and
shows signs of that tendency to subdivision which characterizes all Venetian Government offices.
The volumes which run from the year 1293 to 1440 were known as Registri misti; those covering
from 1491 to 1630, and overlapping the first Misti, were called Registri secreti. After the
year 1630 the papers of the Senate are divided into those known as Corti, relating to foreign
Powers; and those known as Rettori, relating to the government of the Venetian dominion.

Besides this great series of Deliberazioni, containing the general movement of business in
the Senate, there is another voluminous series of documents, equally important, and even more
interesting to the student of general history, the dispatches received from Venetian representatives
in foreign Courts, and the Relazioni, or reports which ambassadors read before the Senate upon
their return from abroad. Nothing can exceed the brilliancy of this series; and the value of
the Relazioni at least has been fully recognized. Yet it should be borne in mind that the Relazioni
are only a part of the series, and that, taken alone and isolated from the dispatches, they
lose much of their value. For we must not forget that the Relazioni were drawn up on more or
less conventional lines; the headings, under which the report was to fall, were indicated by
the Government, and were invariable; and, further, the home-coming ambassador handed his report
to his successor, who frequently used it as a basis in drawing up his own. The result is that,
except in the descriptions of Court life, and in the sketches of prominent characters, the
Relazioni are apt to repeat themselves. But, taken with the dispatches, which arrived almost
daily, they form the most varied, brilliant, and minute gallery of national portraits that
the world possesses. The reports and dispatches were made by men whose whole political training
had rendered them the acutest of observers, and they were presented to critics who were filled
with the keenest curiosity, and were accustomed to demand full and precise information. Not
a detail is omitted as unimportant; the diurnal gossip of the Court, the daily movements of
the sovereign and his favourites; are all recorded with impartial and unerring observation.
The relation of the Dispacci to the Relazioni is the relation of the study to the picture.
The Relazioni are the large canvas upon which the whole nation is broadly depicted, the Dispacci
are the patient and minute studies upon which the excellence of the picture depends. The majority
of the Venetian Relazioni between the years 1492 and 1699 have been published; the earlier
part by Signor Alberi, and the later by Signori Barozzi and Berchet. The eighteenth century
still remains to be worked out. In the series of Relazioni and Dispacci, Great Britain occupies
a comparatively small space. While France, Germany, and Constantinople, each give five volumes
of reports, England gives one only, dating from 1531 to 1763. Of dispatches from England there
are 139 volumes in all; while from Constantinople we have 242, from France 276, from Milan,
230, and from Germany 202.

Previous to the year 1603, when the regular series of dispatches from
England begins, there had been intermittent relations between the
Republic and the English Court. Sebastian Giustiniani was Venetian
ambassador in London in the reign of Henry VIII. (1515-1519); and in the
reign of Mary, Giovanni Michiel represented the Republic for four
years--from 1554 to 1558. The Protestant reign of Elizabeth caused a
long break, during which the Republic received its information about the
affairs of England from its ambassadors in France and Spain. Permanent
relations were not resumed between the two Powers till the accession of
James I., one of whose earliest acts was to send Sir Henry Wotton to
Venice as his ambassador. The Duke
     abhorring this fact, and resolving to endeavour a prevention
     of it, advised with his Secretary Vietta, by what means a
     caution might be best given to that King; and after
     consideration it was resolved to be done by Sir Henry
     Wotton, whom Vietta first commended to the Duke, and the
     Duke had noted and approved of above all the English that
     frequented his Court.

     'Sir Henry was gladly called by his friend Vietta to the
     Duke, who dispatched him into Scotland with letters to the
     King, and with those letters such Italian antidotes against
     poison as the Scots till then had been strangers to. Being there, he used means, by
     Bernard Lindsey, one of the King's bed-chamber, to procure
     him a speedy and private conference with his Majesty.

     'This being by Bernard Lindsey made known to the King, the
     King required his name--which was said to be Octavio
     Baldi--and appointed him to be heard privately at a fixed
     hour that evening. All which time was spent with much
     pleasantness to the King, and with as much to Octavio Baldi
     himself as that country could afford; from which he departed
     as true an Italian as he came thither.'

The presence of Sir Henry in Venice, where he was a persona gratissima, both for his love of
Italy and his knowledge of the language, did much to strengthen the new relations between England
and the Republic. The feeling between Venice and the Stuart kings became extremely cordial;
but on the outbreak of the Civil War, in 1642, the Republic suspended the commission of Vincenzo
Contarina, who had been appointed to succeed Giovanni Giustinian as ambassador to England.
The secretary Girolamo Agostino, however, continued to discharge Venetian affairs till the
year 1645; and his dispatches contain minute particulars concerning the progress of the Civil
War. In the year 1645, Agostino was recalled, and the interests of Venice in England were entrusted
to Salvetti, the Florentine resident. Agostino left behind him in England a secret agent, with
instructions to forward a weekly report on the progress of affairs to the Venetian ambassador
in France, among whose dispatches we find these newsletters from London. After the death of
Charles I it is not likely that the Republic would have been represented at the Court of Cromwell,
towards whom the feeling of Venice was not cordial, had she not been in great straits for help
against the Turk. But in the year 1652 she resolved to dismiss the representative of Charles
II, then in Venice; and, at the same time, the Government instructed the ambassador at Paris
to send his secretary, Lorenzo Pauluzzi, to London to open negociations with Cromwell. With
Pauluzzi the series of dispatches from London recommences; but these dispatches are to be found
among the communications from the Venetian ambassador in Paris, by whom they were forwarded
to the Senate. The dispatches of Pauluzzi are of great importance, and give us a vivid though
hostile picture of Cromwell and his surroundings. 'Nell' universale,' he says, 'ha pochissimo
affetto;' and further on, 'non ardiscono tentare alcuna cosa nè parlare che tra i denti; ma
ognuno sta sperando un giorno verificate le profizie che questo governo non possa a lungo durare.'
In 1655 the negociations between England and Venice had advanced so far that the Republic had
determined to send an Ambassador Extraordinary to the Protector's Court. Giovanni Sagredo,
ambassador at Paris, was chosen, and the closing paragraph of his first dispatch shows how
strongly Cromwell's personality impressed him. 'Per il resto,' he writes, 'è uomo di 56 anni,
con pochissima barba, di complessione sanguigna, di statura media e robusta e di presenza marziale.
Ha una fisonomia cupa e profonda. Porta una gran spada al fianco. Soldato insieme ed oratore,
e dotato di talenti per persuadere e per operare.' The result of Sagredo's mission is contained
in the long and brilliant Relazione which he read in the Senate on his return to Venice in
1656. In this splendid specimen of a Venetian report, he gives, with singular lucidity and
grasp, a brief sketch of the condition of Great Britain; of the causes of the Civil War; of
Cromwell's rise to power; of his foreign relations; and closes with a portrait of the Protector
which confirms Pauluzzi's unfavourable view, and draws a terrible picture of that restlessness
and dread which clouded Cromwell's last days--'più temuto che amato ... vive con sempiterno
sospetto.' When Sagredo returned to Venice, his secretary Francesco Giavarnia was left behind
in England, as Venetian resident, and continued to hold that post till the Restoration, sending
dispatches every week direct to Venice, detailing the close of the Protectorate, and the return
of Charles II., whom he was the first to welcome at Canterbury the day after his landing. In
1661 the Republic gladly re-opened full relations with the Stuarts. Giavarnia was superseded
by two Ambassadors Extraordinary, who conveyed to Charles two gondolas for the water in St.
James's Park, and from that date onwards the diplomatic connection between England and the
Republic followed the ordinary course.

We come now to the papers of the Council of Ten; all of these were committed to the custody
of the Secret Chancellery. We have already seen that the Council of Ten was an extraordinary
office, used upon extraordinary occasions, where secrecy and speed were required. Its chief
occupations may be summed up under three heads--safety of the State, protection of citizens,
and public morals. That being the case, the number and interest of its documents is very great--greater
than that of any other Council of State; but this interest is confined, for the most part,
to matters affecting the home policy of the Republic; foreign affairs finds comparatively little
illustration among the papers of the Ten. The series of documents, containing the ordinary
business of the Ten, dates from the year 1315 to the close of the Republic. The documents are
arranged according to the matter they deal with, that is to say political matter, parti communi
and secreti, or criminal matter, parti crimminali. The immense importance and interest attaching
to the papers of the Ten will be illustrated by the statement, that there we find the cases
of Marino Faliero, of the Carraresi, of Carmagnola, of Foscari, of Caterina Cornaro, and of
Foscarini.

Among the papers of the Collegio we find ourselves once more in the general current of foreign
politics. The ordinary proceedings of the College, the papers containing the arrangement and
discussion of affairs to be presented to the Senate, are included in the volumes of files and
registers, known as the Notatorii del Collegio. The College was entrusted, as we have said,
to receive all the representatives of foreign Powers and to open all letters and dispatches
addressed to the Government. It is in the three series known as Lettere Principi, Espozioni
Principi, and Ceremoniali, that we obtain the fullest information about the action of the agents
from foreign Courts resident in Venice. The series called Lettere Principi, letters from royal
personages, covers the years between 1500 and 1797, and is contained in fifty-four volumes
of filze. England is represented by two of these, beginning with the year 1570, and ending
with 1796, entitled 'Collegio, Secreta, Lettere. Rè e Regina d'Inghilterra.' These volumes
contain one hundred and seventy-one letters, thus distributed among the various sovereigns;
there are thirteen in the reign of Elizabeth; forty in that of James I.; four in that of Charles
I.; three from Oliver Cromwell; one from Richard Cromwell; one from Speaker Lenthal: ten during
the reign of Charles II.; five during that of his brother; three during the reign of William,
including one from the Old Pretender; seven in the reign of Anne; eight in that of George I.;
twenty-one from George II; and fifty-five from George III. These letters are concerned with
formal announcements and the exchange of courtesies, the credentials of ambassadors and notices
of royal births, marriages and deaths. Their historical importance is very slight. The long
series of George III. is almost entirely occupied by noting the yearly increase of his family.
The autographs of the ministers who countersigned the letters, form their greatest attraction.
The late Mr. Rawdon Brown has published facsimiles of these autographs down to the year 1659;
but after that date we find such interesting endorsements as those of Lauderdale, Arlington,
Bolingbroke, Carteret, Pitt, Halifax, Henry Conway, Shelburne, and Charles James Fox. On a
loose parchment among these letters is one very curious document. It is dated Bologna, 21st
February, 1671, and begins 'Carlo Dudley per la gratia di Dio Duca di Northumbria et del Sacro
Romano Impero, Conte di Woruih e di Licester, et Pari d'Ingliterra.' The document goes on to
state that Charles Dudley, Duke of Northumberland, in consideration of the affection and partiality
always shown towards his person and house, grants to Ottavio Dionisio, noble of Verona, the
title of Marquis to him and to his eldest son, to his younger sons and to his brothers and
their sons the title of Count, in perpetuity; and this in virtue of the declaration and authority
of His Holiness Pope Urban VIII., which conferred on Charles Dudley and his eldest born the
right to exercise all the privileges of an independent prince. At the date which this document
bears, 1671, there was no Duke of Northumberland; that title had lately been bestowed by Charles
II. on an illegitimate son, and had perished with him. This Charles Dudley was probably some
pretender to the honours of the Dudley family who once held the dukedom of Northumberland.
The document is curious, for the noble family on whom Charles Dudley conferred this title of
Marquis still exists, and we do not know if any British subject, either before or after, has
even claimed to be a fountain of honour. But Charles Dudley is not the only English pretender
who figures among the papers at the Frari. Filza 8 of the loose papers, titled 'Miscellanea
Diversi Manoscritti,' contains the marriage certificate and will of James Henry de Boveri Rossano
Stuart, natural son of Charles II., and seven letters from his son James Stuart, dated Milan,
Gemona and Padua, 1722 to 1728. The majority of these letters are addressed to Cardinal Panighetti,
from whom this 'povero principe Stuardo,' as he calls himself, hoped to receive money and support
in some imaginary claims on the Crown of England. The letters are full of a certain pathos--the
pathos which cannot fail to attach itself to fallen royalty. The handwriting is that of an
uneducated man; and James Stuart, in these letters, certainly shows no signs of the ability
required to meet so trying a situation. He appeals to the Cardinal first on the grounds of
his creed. It is 'for the Faith that he finds himself in the miserable little town' of Gemona.
Failing upon this line, James Stuart abandons himself to astrology, in the hope that the stars
may give an answer favourable to his hopes. But to all his appeals the Cardinal replies with
cold reserve, and when he hears of astrology, he adds a sharp and crushing reprimand.

Leaving the Lettere Principi we come to the last two series of State papers of which we shall
speak, the Espozioni Principi, or record of all audiences granted to ambassadors and of the
communications made by them in the name of the Power they represented; and the Libri Ceremoniali,
or record of the great functions of State, coronations and funerals of the Doges, the elections
of the Grand Chancellors, the reception accorded to ambassadors, princes and distinguished
travellers. The Republic of Venice was as punctilious as any Court of Europe upon the points
of precedence, ceremony, and etiquette. The reader will not have forgotten the amusing account,
given by the elder Disraeli, of the long struggle between the Master of the Ceremonies and
the Venetian ambassador at the Court of St. James. The Government required from its representatives
a minute account of every detail of etiquette observed towards them, and replied in kind in
their treatment of foreign ministers in Venice. The Republic was punctilious abroad, and no
less so at home. Every stage in the public entry, first audience and congé of foreign ambassadors
were carefully regulated and based upon precedent. The ambassadors of Spain and France had
each a special volume devoted to the ceremonies and etiquette which the Republic observed towards
them. M. Baschet describes at length the receptions of the French ambassadors, for whom he
claims the highest rank among the representatives of foreign Powers at Venice. Great Britain
sent fifty-eight embassies, in all, to the Republic, between the years 1340 and 1797. Of these
ambassadors, Sir Gregory Cassalis filled the office twice, Sir Henry Wotton thrice, the Earl
of Manchester twice, and Elizeus Burgess twice. The ceremony to which the ambassador was entitled
may be gathered from the accounts of these embassies preserved in the Esposizioni Principi
and the Ceremoniali.

The reception of Lord Northampton in the year 1762 will afford us the most detailed view of
the ceremony, for on that occasion some questions of precedent arose, and the Cavaliere Ruzzini,
who was entrusted with the conduct of the affair, presented a long report to the Senate on
the subject. The ambassador was not officially recognized by the Government until he had made
his public entry, and presented his credentials at his first audience in the College. Until
that had taken place, he remained incognito, and was in fact supposed not to be in Venice.
Before the ambassador arrived, the English Consul was expected to hire a palace for his use.
There was no fixed embassy in Venice; Thomas Killigrew lodged at San Cassano, Lord Holdernesse
at San Benedetto, Lord Manchester at San Stae. John Udny, who was consul at the time of Lord
Northampton's Embassy, rented the Palazzo Grimani at Cannaregio for the ambassador whenever
his appointment was announced, and an amusing and characteristic story attaches to this affair.
The palace belonged to a Contessa Grimani, and was in bad repair; but the owner promised to
restore and fit it up for the ambassador. When the consul went to see the palace, shortly before
the ambassador's arrival, he found that nothing had been done to it, and moreover that a gondolier
and his wife occupied the ground-floor and refused to move. He wrote at once to the Contessa
requesting her to remove the gondolier, to which he received for answer that the gondolier's
wife had been nurse to one of the Countess's boys, and the Grimanis had promised her twenty
ducats a-year; if the ambassador liked to pay that amount, the gondolier would turn out; if
not, they must manage to share the palace between them. The consul appealed to the English
Resident, John Murray, who wrote an angry letter to the Government, complaining of this treatment;
'La carità della nobile donna,' he says, 'verso la moglie del gondoliere merita senza dubbio
gran lode, ma il sottoscritto s'imagina che l'avvocato più scaltro si troverebbe bene intrigato
di produrre una legge o esempio per incaricare l'Ambasciatore Inglese di questa carità.'

The matter was probably arranged, for on the 22nd of October Lord Northampton arrived, incognito,
of course, with all his suite, and took up his residence. Lord Northampton was ill, and it
was not until the beginning of the next year that he took the necessary steps to make his entry
and to secure his first audience. The etiquette observed upon such occasions required that
the ambassador should send his secretary to leave copies of his credentials at the door of
the College, and to ask on what day the Doge would receive him. The College reply through one
of their secretaries that an answer will be sent. The Doge was then consulted what day would
suit him, and he answers by putting himself at the disposal of the College. The Senate is then
informed of the ambassador's arrival, and sixty senators, under the direction of a leader,
are appointed to attend the ambassador until the ceremonies of his reception shall be completed.
The days selected for Lord Northampton's reception were the 29th and 30th of May, 1763; and
the Caveliere Ruzzini was named as head of the sixty senators who were to attend the ambassador.
Ruzzini informed Lord Northampton of these arrangements, and at the same time sent him a programme
of the ceremony, which was based upon that observed towards Lord Holdernesse, and was identical
with that which the Republic offered to the ambassador of the King of Sardinia. Before his
public entry, the ambassador and all his suite went to the island of San Spirito, in the lagoon
towards Malamocco. The fiction of the ceremony supposed all ambassadors to be lodged there
until they had presented their credentials. San Spirito was chosen as the point of departure
for the ambassadorial procession because the distance between that island and Venice was supposed
to correspond exactly with the distance between London and Greenwich, whence the Venetian ambassador
was wont to begin his progress. Sir Henry Wotton's second embassy forms a rare exception to
this rule, for the Venetians were so fond of that charming and accomplished poet, that they
allowed him to make his entry from San Giorgio Maggiore, which is much nearer the city and
more convenient. After midday on the 29th, Ruzzini and his sixty senators, each in his gondola,
arrived at San Spirito, and found the household of the ambassador drawn up along the landing-place
en grande tenue. Lord Northampton was informed of Ruzzini's arrival, and came to meet him on
the staircase. After exchanging the prescribed compliments, Ruzzini, with the ambassador on
his right hand, descended, and both entered the Cavaliere's gondola. The whole procession left
San Spirito and proceeded by the Grand Canal to the ambassador's lodging at San Girolamo, accompanied,
as Ruzzini says, by 'un immenso popolo spettatore del nostro viaggio;' for these official entries
were among the most popular of the Venetian spectacles, and the whole city went out to witness
them. At the palace fresh speeches and compliments followed. Lord Northampton was suffering
acutely from an illness of which he died that same year, but Ruzzini reports with obvious satisfaction
that he did not spare him a single ceremony, 'adempi ad ogni parte del consueto ceremoniale.'
The next day Ruzzini and the sixty senators again attended at the ambassador's palace to conduct
him to his audience in the College. Lord Northampton was worse than he had been the day before;
but Ruzzini was implacable. It cost the ambassador three-quarters of an hour to ascend the
Giant's Stair. When at last he reached the door of the Collegio, the Doge and all the College
rose; the ambassador uncovered and made three bows, and, leaving his suite behind him, he mounted
the daïs and took his seat on the right hand of the Doge. The ambassador then covered his head,
and simultaneously one of each order of the Savii did the same. The ambassador handed his credentials
to the Doge, and remained uncovered while they were being read. The Doge made a brief and formal
reply, welcoming the ambassador to Venice, and each time the King's name occurred, the ambassador
raised his cap. After repeating his three bows, the ambassador retired, and was accompanied
to his palace by the sixty senators who had waited for him at the door of the Collegio. This
closed the ceremony of entry.

The English Ambassador Extraordinary enjoyed certain privileges which were established on the
precedent of the embassy of Lord Falconberg, Cromwell's son-in-law. Among these privileges
was the right to lodging and maintenance at the cost of the Republic, a right which the ambassador
usually compounded for the sum of five or six hundred ducats; a box at each theatre in Venice
was placed at his disposal, and when he took his congé the Senate voted him a gold chain and
medal of the value of two thousand scudi. The ambassadors ordinary enjoyed certain exemptions
from customs dues. These exemptions were frequently abused, and were the cause of constant
friction between the Government and the representatives of the Powers. In the year 1763 Mr.
John Murray's Istrian wine was seized, and he only recovered it after expressing himself ben
mortificato. Mr. Murray was constantly in trouble on this subject. The year before he had addressed
an indignant letter to the Government because 'a certain official of the Custom House had accused
him of allowing his servants to sell wine and flour at the door of the Residency. Killigrew
was sent to represent Charles II. at Venice in 1649, just after the execution of Charles I.,
and while his son was a ramingo, or knocking about, as the Venetian ambassador politely puts
it. Killigrew was received in the usual way on February 10, 1650, and made his address 'in
lingua cattiva,' as the report affirms. But the Republic soon tired of its alliance with an
exiled king, and resolved to dismiss Killigrew as soon as possible. Killigrew was poor, and
his master had little or nothing to give him, so he hit upon the expedient of keeping a butcher's
shop, where he could sell meat, cheaper than any one else in Venice, by availing himself of
his exemptions from octroi. The Senate resolved to fasten upon this illicit traffic as a pretext
for dismissing Killigrew; and on the 22d of June, 1652, they sent their Secretary, Busenello,
to tell Killigrew, vivâ voce, that he must go. Busenello went to San Fantin, and there found
one of Killigrew's butchers, who told him that the Resident only kept his shop there, but lived
himself at San Cassano. At San Cassano Busenello was told that Killigrew was dining at Murano,
and would not be home till evening; but very soon after he saw the Resident at his window,
and insisted on being announced. He explained 'with all possible delicacy,' as he says, the
order of the Senate; but Killigrew received the message with every sign of anger and pain.
With tears in his eyes he declared that it was the other ambassadors who robbed the customs,
while he had all the blame. It was true that he did keep 'a little bit of a butcher's shop
to support himself,' but that could not hurt the revenue; and he added that, under any circumstance
he should leave Venice, for he had received his letters of recall from France, four days previously.
The Senate no more than their secretary believed in the existence of this letter of recall;
but Killigrew really had the letter, dated March 14th, and it was sent into the College, along
with a brief exculpatory epistle from the Resident, on the 27th of June. Killigrew left Venice
the same day as he was bound to do by ambassadorial etiquette; and Charles had not another
recognized agent to the Republic until his restoration; for the Venetians definitely adopted
the policy of courting Cromwell, in the vain hope that he would assist them against the Turk.

With the papers of the College we close this notice of the political documents in the archives
at the Frari. The other departments of the Government had each their own series of papers,
equally copious and valuable. The heraldic and genealogical archives of the Avvogadori di Commun,
for example, the Charters of the German and Turkish Exchanges and the records of the Mint and
the public Banks, offer a wide and a rich field for study; and in spite of the profound and
extensive labours of such scholars as Thomas, Checchetti, Barozzi, Berchet, Fulin, Lamansky,
Mas Latrie, and Rawdon Brown, it will be long before the materials in the vast storehouse of
the Frari are exhausted or even adequately displayed.

Art.

The advocates of a general redistribution of landed property in Ireland, as well as those who
are holding out to the agricultural labours of other portions of the United Kingdom the Arcadian
lure figuratively known as the 'three acres and a cow,' will find in the work cited at the
head of this article the amplest materials for the justification of the views they are pressing
for adoption partly as a remedy for agricultural distress, but essentially in application of
the Socialist doctrine that the people of a country have an inherent right to an absolute,
proportionate possession of its soil.

Mr. Laing's 'Journal' is, indeed, not a record of travel and adventure, but a treatise, admirably
written and replete with facts, in demonstration of the great superiority of the Norwegian
system of land tenure over that of any other part of civilized Europe. His views have, moreover,
been to a great extent adopted in the numerous works that have since been produced by British
travellers who, after a rapid drive over the main routes of Norway, have described in terms
equally glowing the happy and enviable condition of the Bonde or yeoman farmer of that country.

Considering there is much in common in regard to race, religion, language, character, and civilization,
between the inhabitants of that interesting little country and its maritime neighbours--the
populations, more especially, of England and Scotland, it will be instructive, on the eve of
the agrarian revolution with which the United Kingdom is threatened, to study and analyse the
statements and conclusions of Mr. Laing, and to trace the subsequent and present operation
of the peculiar land laws which he so highly extolled in the earlier part of this century.

With that object we proceed to describe, almost in Mr. Laing's own words, the condition of
the peasant proprietors of Norway at a period (1835) when, out of a population of 1,194,827,
only about eleven per cent. inhabited towns, the land in rural districts being held by 103,192
proprietors and tenants, the proportion of the two latter being respectively seventy and thirty
per cent.

     'The Norwegians,' wrote Mr. Laing, 'are the most interesting
     and singular group of people in Europe. They live under
     ancient laws and social arrangements totally different in
     principle from those which regulate society and property in
     the feudally constituted states. Their country is peculiarly
     interesting to the political economist. It is the only part
     of Europe in which property from the earliest ages has been
     transmitted upon the principle of partition among all the
     children. The feudal structure of society with its law of
     primogeniture, and its privileged class of hereditary
     nobles, never prevailed in Norway. In this remote corner of
     the civilized world we may therefore see the effects upon
     the condition of society of the peculiar distribution of
     property; it will exhibit, on a small scale, what America
     and France will be a thousand years hence.... Here are the
     Highland glens without the Highland lairds.... If there be a
     happy class of people in Europe it is the Norwegian Bonde,
     king of his own land, and landlord as well as king.'

This state of happiness is, according to Mr. Laing, the result of the still existing Odels
ret or Allodial Right, under which, he asserts, the land of Norway was always the property
of the people, not of a feudal class of high nobility. But although this assertion does not
much affect the main and practical object of our enquiry, it may be as well to point out at
once that, whatever might have been the inherent right of every Norwegian to a portion of the
soil on which he was born, Dr. Broch, an eminent native authority, maintains that a considerable
portion of the land belonged anciently to the kings of Norway, and had been acquired, as in
other countries, partly by confiscation from nobles. Those lands were leased and, gradually,
to a certain extent, sold. In the days of Roman Catholicism, the Church also held great landed
estates, which the State appropriated at the Reformation. No inconsiderable part of the State
domains was then leased, and, in short, before the middle of the seventeenth century, leases
comprised a little more than half of the landed property of the country; while even in 1814,
they constituted one-third of it. Later, the State lands, and those which had been distributed
among nobles at the Reformation, were repartitioned among the bulk of the population or sold.

But to return to the Odels ret. It gives, Mr. Laing shows,

     'to all the kindred of the Odelsmand in possession, in the
     order of consanguinity, a certain interest in it. If the
     Odelsmand should sell or alienate his land, the next of kin
     is entitled to redeem it on paying the purchase-money; and
     should he decline to do so, it is in the power of the one
     next to him to claim his Odelsbaarn ret.'

At the present time, the allodial right is acquired only by the uninterrupted possession of
the same person, his descendants or his wife, during a period of at least twenty years, and
it is lost if the property has been in strange hands for three years. Testamentary dispositions,
in the case of persons leaving issue, are now limited to one quarter of the testator's property;
whereas before 1854, a testator could not bequeath anything individually. Since the year 1860,
also, there is perfect equality between the two sexes in the division of real and personal
property. At the period when Mr. Laing visited Norway, the division of land among children had

     'not had the effect of reducing properties to the minimum
     size that would barely support human existence. One sells to
     the other and turns his capital and industry to pursuits
     that would enable him to acquire the necessaries of life.
     The heirs who sell, very often, instead of a sum of money,
     which is seldom at the command of the parties, take a
     life-rent payment or annuity of so much grain, the keep of
     so many cows, so much firewood, a dwelling-house on the
     property, or some equivalent of that kind. Few properties
     have no such burthens.' He argued that 'in a country where
     land is held, not in tenancy merely, as in Ireland, but in
     full ownership, its aggregation by the death of co-heirs,
     and by the marriages of female heirs,[5] will balance its
     subdivision by the equal succession of children; and also,
     that in such a condition of society, the whole mass of
     property would be found in such a State to consist of as
     many estates of 1000l., as many of 100l., as many of 10l. a
     year, at one period as at another.'

     'Norway,' our author urges, 'affords a strong confutation of
     the dreaded excessive subdivision of land. Notwithstanding,
     the partition system, continued for ages, it contains farms
     of such extent that the owner possesses forty cows.'

On the whole, the farms appeared to him to be of various sizes: many so large that a bell was
used to call the labourers to or from their work; while some were so small as to have only
a few sheaves of corn, or a rig or two of potatoes, scattered among the trunks of the trees.
These, however, were occupied by the farm servants, or cotters, paying for their houses and
land in work (Husmoena). Twenty to forty cows could be counted on the large farms. In the district
of Verdal (Trondhjemsfiord) Mr. Laing saw beautiful little farms of forty to fifty acres, each
having a pasturage or grass tract in the mountains, where the cattle were kept during the summer
until the crops were taken in, and upon each such out-farm, or Soeter, there was a house and
regular dairy, to which, he informs us, 'the whole of the cattle and the dairy-maids, with
their sweethearts, are sent to junket and to amuse themselves for three or four months of the
year.[6] We can well believe that, in such circumstances, Mr. Laing found 'this class of Bönder
the most interesting people in Norway,' and that 'there are none similar to them in the feudal
countries of Europe.' He appears to have been more particularly impressed with

     'the farms large enough to keep a score of cows, six horses
     and a small flock of sheep and goats, and to maintain a
     family and servants in all that land usually produces,
     leaving a surplus for sale sufficient to pay taxes, wages,
     and to provide the comforts and necessaries of life to a
     fair extent,' all which could be bought 'for 1000l. or
     1200l., or even less.'

As regards the agricultural labourer, or cotter, Mr. Laing conceived 'his average condition
to be that of holding land on which he could sow three-quarters of an imperial quarter of corn
and three imperial quarters of potatoes, and which would enable him to keep two cows, or an
equivalent number of sheep or goats.' His wages are stated to have been 4-1/2d. to 6d. per
diem, in addition to his food. It was consequently 'amusing to recollect the benevolent speculations
in our Agricultural Reports, of the Sir Johns and Sir Thomases in our midland counties of England,
for bettering the condition of labourers in husbandry, by giving them, at a reasonable rent,
a quarter of an acre of land to keep a cow on, or by allowing them to cultivate the slips of
land on the roadside, outside of their hedges.' He also derides 'the agricultural writers'
who 'tell us, indeed, that labourers in agriculture are much better off as farm servants, than
they would be as small proprietors,' for 'if property is a good and desirable thing, the very
smallest quantity of it is good and desirable.' It was obvious to Mr. Laing that the forty
families of two or three Norwegian highland glens, 'each possessing and living on its own little
spot of ground and farming well or ill, as the case might be, were in a better and happier
state, and formed a more rationally constituted society, than if the whole belonged to one
of these families (and it would be no great estate), while the other thirty-nine families were
tenants and farmers.'

Mr. Laing found the happy agricultural population of Norway 'much better lodged than our labouring
and middling classes, even in the south of Scotland;' and that no nation was at that period
either better housed, or so well provided with fuel. The standard of living appeared to be
higher in Norway than in most of our Scotch highland districts, although the materials were
the same, namely, oatmeal, barley meal, potatoes, fish--fresh and salted--cheese, butter, and
milk. He understood that it was even usual for the yeoman farmers to have animal food--'salt
beef and black-puddings'--at least twice a week. At all events, he says, four meals a day formed
the regular fare, and with two of those meals even the labourers had a glass of home-made brandy,
distilled from potatoes by the yeoman, who 'could malt and distil in every way he pleased,'
and thereby 'make free use of his agricultural produce,' with the result of 'increasing the
general prosperity, improving the condition of the people, and promoting the increase of their
numbers.'[7]

There was, at the time of Mr. Laing's residence in Norway, 'small difference in the way of
living between high and low, because every man lived from the produce of his farm, and observed
the utmost simplicity and economy with regard to everything that took money out of his pocket.'
Furniture and clothes, except the yeoman's Sunday hat, were all home-made. 'Here was a whole
population, in an old European country, dealing direct with Nature, as it were, for every article,
without the intervention of money, or even of barter.' It was only the small yeomen on the
verge of the Fjeld, or in the glens, far above the level of the land producing corn, and the
inhabitants of districts less favoured by nature, 'whose common bread consisted of the bark
of trees, mixed and ground up with ill-ripened oats; but even in their case, trout, dried and
salted for winter, was no inconsiderable part of their provision, their houses being, at the
same time, comfortable, though small, with wooden floors and glass windows.

Apart from these exceptionally situated proprietors, Mr. Laing found there really was 'no difference
between the residence of a public functionary, of a clergyman, or of a gentleman of larger
property and that of a Bonde, or peasant. The latter are as well, as commodiously and even
showily, lodged as the former can be, and the properties are as good.' Mr. Laing, however,
makes a reservation under this head in respect of the 'cultivated classes,' as being indisputably
superior in mental acquirements to the yeoman farmer, and who lived in the same manner as the
corresponding classes in England.

Towards the end of his stay in Norway, Mr. Laing often heard 'from the most intelligent men
in the country' that the yeoman farmer lived too high; indulged too much in expensive luxuries,
as coffee and sugar; in frequent and expensive entertainments at each other's houses; in carrioles,
sledges, and harness of a costly kind; and even in a horse or two more than the farm work required;
and he certainly thought this had resulted in a general want of money among them to pay even
the most trifling taxes and other sums. A man with land worth three or four thousand dollars,
and with horses, cows, and all sorts of products in abundance, was often at a loss for five
or ten dollars. Nevertheless, he was of opinion that 'the increase of the tastes and habits
which belong to property tended to keep population within the bounds of what can be comfortably
subsisted, and without which the increase of subsistence would tend to evil rather than good.'
It was, indeed, 'a good thing that they all had the ideas, habits, and character of people
possessed of independent property upon which they were living without any care about increasing
it, and free from the anxiety and fever of money making or money losing.'

Their subsistence, Mr. Laing exultingly and repeatedly points out, was derived mainly from
husbandry, carried on under less favourable conditions of soil, climate, crops, and pasturage
than in the Scotch highlands;--

     'but on the simple Norwegian system, to live on the produce
     of the land being the main object, and the labourer (the
     cotter) being paid chiefly in land, a good crop would be an
     unmingled blessing; whereas in countries where agriculture
     is carried on as a manufacture, a succession of good crops
     may glut the markets, ruin the tenant, and even reduce the
     money wages of the labourer. In Norway neither good nor bad
     crops can affect the proportion of population to the land
     that could in ordinary seasons subsist on it. Paying no
     rent, the Norwegian yeoman farmer is not usually employed in
     prospective improvements, but simply in raising food, so
     that he can see at once whether the land is sufficient to
     produce subsistence for himself and his labourers. If grain
     and potatoes for the use of the farm, and a little surplus
     for sale to pay the land-tax and buy luxuries with, can be
     raised by the farm, all the purposes of farming in Norway
     are answered.

On the subject of pauperism, Mr. Laing alleges that 'the dread of poverty was less influential
in Norway, where extreme destitution is as rare as great wealth, and where there is so much
less difference in the comforts and consideration of the richer and poorer classes.' The indigent
were farmed out for a week or so at a time among the yeomen farmers, 'whose poor-rate like
the tithes of the Church, was too inconsiderable to mention.' The state of property, and its
general diffusion throughout the social body, had also, he had no doubt, a beneficial effect
on the moral condition of the people. 'The desire for wealth being considerably blunted, it
was not the same actuating, engrossing principle of human action, the spring of much that was
evil and immoral being thus removed.' Only one case of downright drunkenness--that of a Laplander--had
come under his personal observation, and it was only on special occasions that the yeoman farmer
could be seen a little elated. His theory, however (we may remark in passing), respecting the
influence of property on the moral condition of the people is not supported by other facts
which he quotes, namely, that owing to the restraints upon marriage, 'exercised as in Paris
or London, by a high standard of living,' the 'proportion of illegitimate to legitimate children
in Norway was 1 in 5,' while in a parish he specifies, it was (between 1826 and 1830) 'as high
as 1 in 3-26/136.' He mentions that engagements between couples lasted generally one, two,
and often several years, especially in the case of servants in husbandry waiting for a house
and land to settle in as cotters. In such cases, he says, 'it too often happened that the privileged
kindness between betrothed parties was carried too far,' and 'the betrothed became a mother
before she was a wife.'

We quit this painful phase of peasant proprietorship with the observation that, notwithstanding
a still wider diffusion of property and of moral qualities which, according to Mr. Laing, that
diffusion is calculated to engender, 8.38[8] per cent. of the live children born in Norway
between 1866 and 1870 were born out of wedlock, the corresponding proportion in 1836 having
been 7.07 per cent. It is natural to find, under these circumstances, that the marriage rate
was 6.84 per 1000 of the population in 1866-75 against 7.31 per 1000 between 1834 and 1836,
with a fractional decrease of the total number of births in the former period, the average
per family remaining slightly over four.

The ancient Allodial Right and the happy social system based upon it, Mr. Laing found jealously
guarded by the yeomanry, 'who have not only the legislative power and the election of the Storthing'
(or Parliament) 'almost entirely in their own hands, but also the whole civil business of the
community.' He may, therefore, well say, without fear of contradiction, that 'the Norwegian
people enjoy a greater share of liberty, have the framing and administering of their own laws
more entirely in their own hands, than any European nation of the present time;' and, further,
that 'it is not a little extraordinary that almost the only result' of the universal delirium
of 1790,[9] 'which approaches in reality to the theories of that period, has been the Norwegian
Constitution.'

The paramount influence of the agrarian class over the destinies of the kingdom may be judged
by the circumstances that the rural districts are permanently represented in the Storthing
by two-thirds of the total number of members, limited by the Constitution to 114; and that
practically the suffrage is now universal, the principal conditions of its possession being,
under recent legislation, a qualification of age (25 years) and a residence of five years in
the country. It is well known that the Parliament thus elected (under a system of double election),
with its de facto single Chamber, subdivided for the more rapid and effective discharge of
certain business into what Mr. Laing chooses to call an 'Upper House' and a 'House of Commons,'
has, within very recent days, in virtue of the largely predominant rural, radical vote, exercised
its power of impeaching and punishing, by fine and dismissal from office, an entire Cabinet,
for the crime of having advised the King that his veto was not merely suspensive, but absolute,
in the matter of any Bill affecting the principles of the Constitution, and that the questions
in dispute between the Sovereign and the Storthing were of a constitutional character, involving
indirectly not only the stability of a monarchical form of government, but also that of the
personal union between the crowns of Norway and Sweden--a stability pre-eminently essential
in both respects to the highest interests of Scandinavia, and in no small degree also to the
maritime and political interests of this country. It is this form of Parliament that Mr. Laing
extols 'as a working model of a constitutional government on a small scale, and one which works
so well as highly to deserve the consideration of the people of Great Britain.'

We have at last done with Mr. Laing's remarkable statements, views, and recommendations; and
the principal question we now have to consider is: What is the latest phase (after an interval
of half a century) of the development of the peculiar social organization of Norway, and especially
of its system of land tenure, differing, as both do, from the organization and system evolved
out of feudality in Great Britain and Ireland? We therefore intend to enquire: (1) Has the
system of land tenure in Norway prevented, as foretold by Mr. Laing, an excessive subdivision
of land? (2) Has a dead level of ease and contentment been maintained? (3) Has the diffusion
of land by a natural process, under the widest form of home rule, kept the rural population
of Norway within the bounds of possible modern existence? (4) Has no pauperism affected the
taxation of landed property? and (5) generally, Is the Norwegian yeoman farmer in a more thriving
condition at the present time than the tenants and agricultural labourers elsewhere, from whom
is still withheld the freehold possession of land to which, it is alleged by a certain school
of politicians, they have a natural right, disputed only by monopolists and land-grabbers?

These are the questions we shall endeavour to answer with the aid, exclusively, of the latest
publications of the Norwegian Government. We must, however, preface our replies by sketching
roughly the influences that have sprung into operation since Mr. Laing published the Journal
of his residence in Norway.

In his time the towns contained only about eleven per cent. of the total population of the
kingdom, whereas at the present moment the proportion is double that of 1835.[10] This urban
agglomeration, Dr. Broch shows, has been 'due principally to causes which have operated in
the rest of Europe. Facilitated means of communication promoted the migration of the agricultural
population towards the towns, where the development of industry and commerce offered the lure
of gains or salaries higher than those in rural districts.' One of the causes, he justly adds,
of the displacement of the population has been the immense and laudable progress of public
instruction, 'and the growing taste for intellectual and material enjoyments which gave a great
force of attraction to the towns.'

As in other advancing countries, the attraction of towns, and the facilities for obtaining
employment in them, operate also in Norway, to the disadvantage of the yeomen farmers of the
present day. Among the causes of the economic decline of the Province of North Bergen, the
Prefect mentions that

     'the disinclination of young men of the yeoman farmer class
     to take permanent service is very general in this district,
     and is easily explained by the ease with which men in the
     prime of their strength obtain occupation as labourers in
     the fisheries. The great bulk of the day labourers do not
     seek with any great eagerness for work in the fields, so
     long as they hold previously acquired means sufficient to
     provide them with the necessaries of life, however scantily.
     As a rule, so long as want does not look in at the window,
     they will not engage themselves for such work, except at
     very good wages. The wages for a yearly labourer have
     doubled during the last twenty years.[11] At the same time
     the houseman has lost the command he previously had over his
     workmen, and consequently does not get the same amount of
     work out of them as formerly. Fishing attracts labour by a
     larger immediate return, acquired with less bodily exertion
     than in husbandry. It gives the population less taste for
     harder work.'

We leave Mr. Laing in doubt whether the steam-engine could 'ever be brought to perfection.'
That doubt was speedily removed, and in 1852 Norway followed in the wake of other European
nations by building railways, their total length in 1883 having reached very little short of
a thousand English miles. Nor did their construction, with capital raised chiefly abroad and
punctually repaid, arrest the improvement or the laying down of ordinary roads, to the extent
of 4000 miles, between 1845 and 1875. In addition to this extensive opening-out of communication
by rail and road, the introduction of steamers on inland waters and their employment as coasters
and sea-going vessels, the construction of telegraphs, and development of fisheries, of ship
building, of banking and other companies, and generally of trade and industry, produced gradually
a wide disturbance in the social economy found by Mr. Laing. The expansion and prosperity of
the towns, as well as the more refined habits of life adopted by the clergy and the officials
of Government, were viewed by the yeomen farmers with a jealousy that was undoubtedly the original
cause of their present radical proclivities, the old conservatism being relegated to towns,
contrary to the experience of other European countries, and particularly to that of Great Britain,
until the metaphorical three acres and a cow were dangled before the eyes of its rural population.

Under all these influences, and we may include among them the effect of a constantly-increasing
number of travellers, equipped with the modern appliances of civilization, and demanding accommodation
and other material comforts of a more and more superior character, the Robinson Crusoe existence
of the yeoman farmer, as depicted by Mr. Laing, has suffered so much invasion that it has well-nigh
disappeared.

In the matter of clothing, an assimilation to general, central European dress has for years
past been noticeable even in districts the most remote, to the prejudice of home-spinning and
weaving. Ancient silver ornaments have been largely discarded by the women, and converted,
first into money, and eventually into articles of modern use or embellishment, to an extent
that now renders travellers more and more suspicious of the Brummagem origin of the objects
that remain for sale. And it is the same with old furniture and with the multifarious knicknacks
which travellers less recent delighted to find in the country at reasonable prices.

The value of money has become more generally appreciated since Mr. Laing admired the absence
of all incentive to 'money-making and money-losing,' and the previously unambitious character
of the yeoman and his sons has undergone a tolerably complete change since education has opened
out the widest avenues to personal advancement, even from the plough. They no longer live by
bread alone, and therefore their artificial wants have been increasing at a greater ratio than
their means of satisfying them out of the produce of the land. Without entering here upon the
important effect of the corn supplies from America, and of the depreciation of the value of
the Norwegian timber, owing to the increased competition of America and other countries, we
may sum up this imperfect prefatory sketch by stating that, from a general point of view, the
Gamle Norge (Old Norway) of Mr. Laing's days has for many years been passing through a process
of transformation, the latest results of which we shall now describe.[12]

Mr. Laing's contention, that when land is held in freehold, not as a rule in tenancy, the relative
size or value of the estates into which the land is divided will remain the same at one period
as at another, is entirely refuted by the official statistics of Norway. In the first place,
the total number of properties, which was about 111,000 in 1838, had grown, in 1870, to 149,000
(34-1/2 per cent.), and is still higher at the present day, with a continued tendency to multiplication
by partition. Secondly, the proportion that existed in 1838 between the various sizes of agricultural
holdings has undergone a notable change, marking a very considerable increase in the relative
number of small plots.

As it was found practically impossible to estimate the value of landed property on the basis
of its acreage (the physical conditions of the country giving such great variety to the value
of estates), the 'Cadastre' introduced in 1836, established, for purposes of assessment, a
classification based on 'skylddaler,' or taxable, value. This unit of taxation was assumed
to represent a mean capital value of about 89l., arrived at by estimating the net income derived
at that period from the working of land during an average year.

The following statement exhibits the cadastral classification of properties,[13] and the changes
that have occurred in the several groups between 1838 and 1870.

                                              1838.      1870.
Estates below 0.2 skylddaler in value         8,866      26,048
   "    between 0.2 and 1      "             31,265      52,067
   "       "    1    "  2      "             28,652      33,427
   "       "    2    "  5      "             32,854      29,498
   "       "    5    " 10      "              7,043       6,012
   "       "   10    " 20      "              1,791       1,617
   "     above         20      "                315         344
                              Total         110,786     149,013

It is thus evident that, even fifteen years ago, the increase in the total number of properties,
as compared with the number in 1838, had affected only the three groups of smaller holdings,
and particularly the group (below 0.2) which, according to Dr. Broch, 'includes the sites of
houses and cottages owned by labourers, fishermen, seamen, and artizans, but estimated to yield
an average of 5-1/2 bushels of corn, 8 bushels of potatoes, and grass for half a cow. The holdings
more purely agricultural, and designated by the same authority as 'small properties,' are those
comprised in the two next categories, namely, parcels of land over 0.2 and under 2 skylddaler
in value. In 1870, we find that a little more than one-half of the landed properties in Norway
and one-third of the total cadastral area, were included in those two groups. The average yield
of those small properties is estimated by Dr. Broch at '55 bushels (20 hectol) of cereals,
and 82-1/2 bushels (30 hectol) of potatoes, with fodder for four cows, seven sheep or goats,
and half a horse.' He states, nevertheless, that--

     'without subsidiary means of existence, the most frugal
     families cannot subsist on them, even when free from debt
     and other incumbrances. There can be no question of
     employing hired labour on such farms, although a domestic
     servant is sometimes kept. The owners or tenants of such
     small properties seek their principal means of existence in
     fishing, forest work, and a variety of other occupations.'

The group of properties more particularly admired by Mr. Laing is that which is officially
classed under 'Properties of medium size,' ranging between two and ten skylddaler in cadastral
value. They represented in 1870 only 24 per cent. of the total number of properties, but 59
per cent. of the cadastral area of Norway. These are the farms which can, on an average, feed
fifteen head of cattle, thirty or forty sheep or goats, and a couple of pigs, and yield 30
imperial quarters of cereals, 40 imperial quarters of potatoes, and fodder for a couple of horses.

     'Agriculture on these properties,' continues Dr. Broch, 'is
     not only the most important means of existence, but also in
     many cases the only resource. They suffice for a family of
     simple habits, provided the proprietor is not crippled with
     debt, that he has not to pay too heavy "föderåa"
     (annuities, incumbrances) and on condition that he lives as
     a peasant, assisting personally in the work of the
     firm,[14]

Estates of an assessed value of more than ten 'skylddaler' are designated as 'Large Properties.'
They cover 13.4 per cent. of the total cadastral area, but represent only 1.3 per cent. of
the total number of properties; and it is exclusively these that afford, according to Dr. Broch,
'easy circumstances to their possessors, who are not infrequently ship-owners, forest-owners,
engaged in the fishery-trade,' &c.

It is thus manifest that, in 1878, when Dr. Broch drew up his Report for the Universal Exhibition
at Paris, the diffusion of property in Norway had left only about 25 per cent. of the yeomen
farmers (excluding the group of 'Large Properties') capable of maintaining themselves and their
families on their freeholds on conditions which, as we shall presently show, no longer exist,
and that the great bulk of the landed proprietors were in occupation of such small patches
of land that their subsistence was entirely dependent upon other employments. This view is
very fully borne out by the 'Reports of the Norwegian Prefects for the Quinquennial Period
1876-80.' Their observations on the growing subdivision of land as one of the causes by which
the agricultural economy has been disturbed, to its great disadvantage, are well worth attention.

An increasing subdivision of land is reported from the provinces of North Bergen, Romsdal,
South Trondhjem, and Tromsö. The Prefect of North Bergen points to it as one of the reasons
of the unfavorable condition of the province:--

     'It may,' he writes, 'with just cause be said to exist when
     the properties parcelled out are insufficient for the
     maintenance of a family, and when the farms are situated in
     a locality which does not afford the opportunity of some
     kind of subsidiary employment, or if the proprietor of such
     a small holding cannot attach himself to another man as a
     labourer for hire. When utilised, however, by the
     inhabitants of the coast, such subdivision cannot be
     regarded as excessive, for the owners of the small patches
     are able to obtain for themselves and their families the
     necessaries of life by fishing. When, however, a landowner,
     on account of the insignificant extent or the small
     productiveness of his farm, finds himself unable to subsist
     without seeking the wages of a labourer, his position is not
     better, or but little better, than that of the cotter
     (Husmand) alongside of him, notwithstanding that the latter
     is not owner of the land he cultivates. It is a matter of
     course that such farmers will be destitute of economical
     power, and unable to give the communal or the provincial
     exchequer any visible contribution towards the funds that
     have to be raised in order to meet the public expenditure.
     The existence of such small proprietors is not, on the
     whole, desirable.'

In the province of South Trondhjem the great increase of the indebtedness of the landowners
is ascribed in part to the subdivision of property by the creation of Myrmoend, literally 'bogmen'
(bog-trotters?), or men supplied gratuitously, in recent times, with small plots of waste land,
for the purpose of qualifying them as voters. Subdivision has likewise resulted from the partition
of holdings in common, which, according to Dr. Broch, formed, in 1870, 13.4 per cent. of all
the properties in Norway; principally in the Western Provinces, from the Naze to the Fiord
of Trondhjem, where they constituted at that period, on the average as much as 30 per cent.
of the landed property. Under a law passed in 1857, those lands are now divisible or exchangeable,
and it appears from the report of the Prefects that the demands in that direction cannot be
satisfied by the Government officials with sufficient promptness. In the province of South
Trondhjem, for instance, about 40 per cent. of the properties were still held in common in
1875, but between 1876 and 1880 the partition of such lands was advancing 'at the rate of about
twenty farms per annum.'

The Prefect of Romsdal enumerates the causes of an increasing subdivision of landed property
as follows: 1. The clearing of land for fields and meadows with the view of affording support
to more families than one. 2. The desire of a proprietor to let more of his children than the
nearest Odelsberretige[15] come into the possession of his estate. 3. In the case of an indebted
proprietor, the necessity of parting with a portion of his land in order to get clear of his
creditors; and 4. The desire on the part of persons who have no real property to come into
the possession of land, especially tenants and cotters. The yeomen farmers themselves, he reports:

     'bring forward as a substantial reason for the increasing
     subdivision of land the fact that, owing to the growing
     difficulty of obtaining labourers, it does not pay to
     remain in possession of a larger estate than can be worked
     by the family itself.'

Consequently, the number of holdings was increased in that province by nearly 10 per cent.
between 1876 and 1880. A corroboration of this view is to be found in other Reports, particularly
in the Report from the Province of North Trondhjem, in which the yeomen farmers are declared
to be compelled to 'cultivate the land with the resources of their own households.' The effect
of the conversion of cotters into small proprietors may be estimated from the following opinion
of another Prefect: 'The burden of bad times is often felt more heavily by the proprietor than
by the cotter;' and all the Reports show that 'the times' are as bad in Norway as they are
in the United Kingdom, with this aggravation, that 70 to 80 per cent. of the population of
Norway is settled on the land, and steeped in debt.

Most of the Prefects report unfavourably on the condition and prospects of agriculture, and
on the depressing influence of American competition in corn, which began to make itself distinctly
felt about the year 1875,[16] when also the forest industry, so intimately connected with agriculture,
first encountered the effects of a greatly increased shipment of timber from America and other
countries to Europe. But these are not the only reasons, over and above the subdivision of
property already dwelt upon, to which they ascribe a very general decline in the economic condition
of the yeomen farmer. In one province, 'habits of thrift and providence had been awakened and
replaced by new habits of life, with greater demands for comforts and enjoyments.' High prices
previously realized for timber had caused luxury to enter into all the circumstances of life,
stimulating in many quarters a reckless waste of money earned.' In another, 'the demand for
comforts of life has risen, and it is not all that have found it easy to limit the satisfaction
of their wants,' and 'more has been consumed than means allowed.' The female part, more particularly,
of the population of North Bergen, is reproached with an inability to withstand the temptation
of buying the wares of all kinds, 'neither useful nor necessary,' which the present great number
of country storekeepers insidiously placed before their eyes. 'The improved mode of living
introduced during a previous, flourishing period, has also contributed to ruin the economic
condition of the people, who in the harder times that have succeeded have not known how to
cut their coats according to their cloth.' At the same time, the Prefect adds, 'the mode of
living, taking the rural population as a whole, is very frugal; yes, far too frugal. It is
very desirable that they should have more substantial food than they have at present, but they
must first have the means to obtain it.' Even so far north as the Provinces of Nordland and
Tromsö, a similar tendency to live beyond means, the absence of good economy, and the dissipation
of money 'on no particular system,' are reported to be the present characteristics of the people
who are largely engaged in the fisheries.

No one who has travelled in Norway can fail to endorse the assertion, that the fare of the
yeomen farmer, however many may be his cows, is of a character which no English agricultural
labourer would be satisfied with. Oatmeal cakes, potatoes, porridge, butter and milk, and of
late years American pork (when within reach of the yeoman's means) are the principal articles
of food; and the hardiest traveller, whether native or alien, would not venture to leave the
main arteries of communication without making his own provision of potted meats, or trusting
for his sustenance to the fish and game to be killed by himself. Mr. Laing's 'salted meat and
black-puddings' are certainly not to be found, except at farms that are few and far between.
On the high roads, where tourists' gold circulates, the traveller suffers no deprivation, and
the houses and stations are so comfortable and well-appointed, that only the most exacting
foreigner can find fault with the accommodation provided. Mr. Laing's observations in this
respect apply at present only to establishments of this kind, and to the very few farms at
which the servants are still 'called to and from their work by means of a bell.'

Except, therefore, along the course of the tourists' gold stream, and in the vicinity of towns,
the mode of living is rude in the extreme, and the lament of the Prefect of North Bergen is
in reality applicable to the great bulk of the yeomen farmers of Norway, as well as to their
tenants and cotters. From the Reports of the Prefects it is evident that the gravest symptom
of the decline of the rural economy in Norway, and, at the same time, one of its principle
causes, is the heavy indebtedness of the yeomen farmers, great and small. Its origin is traceable
to the year 1816, when the Bank of Norway was founded, chiefly for the purpose of 'advancing
on its own notes, upon first securities over land, any sum not exceeding two-thirds of the
value of the property' mortgaged to it. Mr. Laing alludes to it as 'the peculiar, and for the
wants of the country, well-imagined, Bank of Norway,' which 'facilitates greatly the family
arrangements with regard to land.' Its capital was originally raised by a forced loan or tax
upon all landed property, and the landholders became shareholders according to the amount of
their respective shares. The borrower repaid half-yearly to the Bank the interest of the sum
that might be to his debit at the rate of 4 per cent. per annum, and was also bound to pay
off 5 per cent. yearly of the principal, which was thus liquidated in twenty years. Although
Mr. Laing was of opinion that 'a circulation of paper money on such a basis is evidently next,
in point of security, to that of the precious metals,' he fails to mention that the Bank was
forced to suspend specie payments three years after its establishment, and that the resumption
of those payments was not commenced until 1823, when the notes of the Bank began to be convertible
at little over half their original value; the operation of raising them to par, on a graduated
scale, having been completed only in 1842, a period since which the Bank, with an increased
Reserve Fund, has maintained an uninterrupted and unimpeachable stability. But while the Bank
still advances money on the security of landed property, two-thirds of its resources are now
employed in the discount of mercantile bills. At the end of 1883, its loans to the landed proprietors
amounted only to 626,000l.

In 1852, however, the State had come again to the assistance of the landowners for the extinction
of private mortgages and the consolidation of old debts by the creation of a special 'State
Mortgage Bank,' with an original capital of 291,000l., increased by successive issues of bonds
representing advances on the security of real property, bearing interest at the rate of 4 per
cent, (at present 4-1/2 per cent.), and repayable by drawings over a period of thirty years.
The amount of the bonds issued up to 1884 was about 3,812,000l., and in 1878 about three-quarters
of the bonds were held in the country itself, their market value being still almost at par.

It is principally into this Bank that the yeomen farmers have been dipping their estates at
a rapidly increasing rate. Thus, while the loans on the security of real property in rural
districts averaged 57,500l. per annum between 1853 and 1855, and 220,600l. between 1876 and
1880, the advances made in 1883 amounted to 396,500l. At the end of that year the balance of
outstanding loans had reached the sum of 3,752,000l., of which about 77 per cent., or 2,889,000l.,
represented advances in rural districts, the remaining 23 per cent, having been borrowed in
towns. The interest payable on those loans is respectively 4-1/4 and 4-3/4 per cent., according
to whether the borrowers have been supplied with bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 or
4-1/2 per cent. per annum; and 3 per cent. of the capital is repayable per annum until the
extinction of the debt over a period of thirty years.

There is a third public source available to the landed proprietors for loans on mortgages and
on bonds or bills, namely the Savings Banks. In 1884, the savings-banks, in rural districts
alone, held in 'mortgage bonds' and in 'bonds and bills' a sum of about 3,553,000l.; but in
what proportion that debt was incurred by local traders and by farmers, it is impossible to
say. It is, however, clear that the yeomen farmers have benefited largely by the deposits made
in those banks by the comparatively few who have been able to accumulate, instead of borrowing,
money. Thus, the Prefect of Hedemarken reports that, 'while large amounts, realized by the
sale of timber, were deposited in the savings-banks, extensive loans were made by those establishments
to persons in less favourable circumstances,' and that 'the savings-banks, to be found in so
many parishes, have, by the easy access they afford to loans, beguiled many into a needless
borrowing of money, subsequently squandered.'

Over and above these facilities for borrowing money from public institutions, the yeomen farmers
are undoubtedly heavily in debt to local storekeepers, and to merchants and traders in the
towns. In fact the great bulk of the landed proprietors have been borrowing in every direction
as much as they could raise by mortgage or by bill. Owing to the excellent system of registration
that exists in Norway, there is no difficulty in ascertaining the extent to which the charges
on real property in rural districts have increased between the years 1876 and 1880. It appears
from the Reports of the Prefects that, between those dates, the balance of mortgages newly
effected over those extinguished in rural districts amounted to a sum of about four millions
sterling. The State Mortgage Bank is bound not to advance more than six-tenths of the value
of land and buildings (forests excepted), and it is supposed that the loans have so far not
exceeded four-tenths of the value of mortgaged property; but as the yeomen farmers generally
contrive to borrow on second mortgages, it may safely be assumed, that their estates are charged
with interest at 4-1/4 to 6 per cent. on a considerable part of the nominal value of what is
not purely forest land, in addition to an annual repayment of 3 per cent. of the capital borrowed
from the State Mortgage Bank. The forests, on the other hand, have been largely used up in
paying the interest and capital on those loans, either by cutting them down, or by leasing
or pawning them to traders, or to yeomen who have been able to keep their heads above water
and to profit by the economic distress of the great majority of their fellow-landowners. The
difficulty experienced by that majority in meeting the payment of interest and capital, especially
at a time when the value of agricultural produce has been considerably diminished by American
competition, and when also the competition of American and Baltic timber has simultaneously
reduced the profits of the forest industry to a point that hardly repays the felling of trees,
is clearly shown from the statistics of forced sales, of auctions and of distraints in the
rural districts, and from an accompanying increase in the number of lawsuits before Courts
of First Instance. It appears from the Reports of the Prefects that the sales of real property
for debt have increased in every Province between the two periods 1871-1875 and 1876-1880 to
an extent that ranges from 30 per cent. to 600 per cent., the greatest increase having taken
place in the Provinces of Kristiansamt (600 per cent.), Norland, Nedenæs, Buskerud, Hedemarken
and Akershus, where it ranged between 600 per cent. and 146 per cent. From another official
source we obtain the following statement:--

1876-1880.

                               Number.    Amount.
1. Compulsory sales
    of real property
    in rural districts.        2513     563,000l. averaging 224l. per sale.
2. Do. of personal
    property.                  5136     134,000l. ditto 26l. per sale.
3. Distraints for arrears
    of taxes, &c.              --      1,089,000l.

But since real property is of comparatively low value in Norway, and personal property limited
mostly to the veriest necessities of life, it is not so much the total of the amounts realized
by forced sales, or the sums for which 'executions' and 'distraints' were effected, that give
the measure of the depressed condition of the yeomen farmers, as the great and steady increase
that took place between 1876 and 1880 in the number of those operations. Thus, while the number
of forced sales of real property in towns, as well as in rural districts, was 424 in 1876,
it had grown to 1378 in 1880. It is therefore not surprising to find in the Reports of the
Prefects from which we have so largely drawn our figures that 'the means of meeting liabilities
and of paying taxes at the proper time have grown more feeble, and recourse to legal enforcement
of pecuniary claims has consequently become more frequent.' 'The condition of this Province'
(Kristiansamt) 'is all the worse from a pretty widespread misuse of credit during the previous
period' (1871-75). In another province (N. Bergen) we find that the depression in 1879 and
1880 'compelled those who had claims to enforce them rigorously. Mortgages, distraints, sales,
&c., have therefore increased, and there has been an exceptionally, large number of suits before
the Courts of Mutual Agreement. 'The value of agricultural produce has fallen, owing to a great
extent to a scarcity of money and to great competition from a desire to convert as much produce
as possible into money.' In the northern province of Tromsö 'merchants have suffered from the
impoverishment of their customers' (mostly fishermen as well as landowners), 'and have caused
them to be made bankrupts. Credit has been misused on a large scale. Its facility induces the
population to live beyond its means. It also encourages traders to set up in business and get
customers with ease, without having capital or means of their own. The one misuse reacts on
the other. All products are sunk considerably in value, and this fall is even greater in the
case of real estate.'

The latter statement is not generally applicable to the remaining provinces, for we find that
while the average value of the 'skylddaler,' or unit of assessment, was 153l.,[17] according
to prices paid for land in 1871-1875, it has risen to about 180l. in 1876-1880, thus confuting
Mr. Laing's theory, that the peculiar succession of property would tend to keep land at a low
value. It would not, however, be right to conclude from these figures that landed property
has, on the whole, increased of late years in value, despite the general indebtedness of its
owners. Land in the vicinity of towns and railways must naturally become more and more valuable,
and the relatively much higher prices paid for such land have no doubt had the effect of raising
the total average deduced from sales of every description of landed property. It may also be
assumed that the demand for land is artificially increased by the facility with which it may
be purchased, since at least one-half of the purchase money generally remains on mortgage,
in addition to other encumbrances. At the same time, the financial institutions, to which so
large a proportion of the real property in Norway is mortgaged, are interested in maintaining
its value, and attain their object by abstaining from offering at any one period too many defaulting
properties for sale; and it may also be suspected that the statistics of forced sales represent
only cases in which no compromise could be effected, or in which it was expedient or possible
to have recourse to the ultimate means of recovery without sensibly deteriorating locally the
value of landed property. Cases are, in fact, not infrequent in which the mortgagees find themselves
compelled to retain the property of the defaulter, and either to place it in the hands of caretakers,
with the hope of future realization on more favourable terms, or to sell it in small lots as
opportunity occurs. In any case, the full and exact effect of the pawning of all the landed
property of the country at a time when its agriculture has to compete with American cereals,
its timber industry with supplies from America and the Baltic, and its wooden ships with iron
steamers transporting cargoes at an almost nominal freight, is not yet to be found in statistical
records.

The indisputable fact remains that, notwithstanding the existence of a system of land tenure
which, according to Mr. Laing, was so perfect between 1834 and 1836 as to render its adoption
in this country, and especially in Ireland, highly desirable, the yeomen farmers of Norway--framers
of their own laws and absolute masters of their own destinies--are not only at present suffering
from the commercial and agricultural depression that obtains in other countries of Europe,
in which the social state is more or less differently constituted, but also find themselves,
in face of that depression, with exceptionally heavy burdens on their backs in the form of
pecuniary indebtedness at a rate of interest which mere agriculture, under the most favourable
circumstances, cannot possibly afford to pay.

This heavy indebtedness has not, as a rule, been incurred for productive purposes, such as
drainage, improved methods of agriculture, the increase of stock, &c.; and although the use
of simple agricultural machinery is somewhat on the increase in Norway, yet agriculture remains
very much in the same primitive condition in which it was found by Mr. Laing.[18] The Prefects
attribute this backwardness to want of skill on the part of the proprietors (Romsdal), to the
poverty of the soil, to the dearness of agricultural labour, and generally to the unremunerative
results of husbandry since the depreciation of the value of its products. In a letter addressed
last year to the 'Morgenblad,' the leading Journal at Christiania, by a native authority on
the subject of agriculture, it is urged that the landed proprietors of Norway have 'for some
years past been going down hill;' the hopes of improving the condition of agriculture, entertained
about thirty years ago, when efforts were first commenced in that direction, being now entirely
dissipated.

     'It is painful,' he says 'to see how the forests are
     decreasing and how land once under cultivation is lying
     unused. When asked the reason, the proprietors reply that
     the prices of corn and other agricultural products are so
     low and the wages of labour so high, owing to emigration,
     that they have not the means to cultivate a large portion of
     the land, and could derive no advantage from it even if the
     means were available.'

The yeomen farmers, being therefore in a distressed condition, and their children and best
hands forced to leave their homes in order to cultivate the fruitful soil of America, to the
growing detriment of those who remain to till the soil of Norway--those farmers, he points
out with great force of argument, must have the same protection which is accorded to the industrial
classes, if agriculture is to be saved from final ruin. In fact, this remarkable letter points
to an agitation in favour of the imposition of a 'fiscal duty,'[19] on corn, food of all kind,
cattle, dairy produce, &c.; and supports this conclusion with the argument used by Prince Bismarck
on the second reading of his recent Corn Duties Bill:

     'The trade of the Baltic will suffer nothing from protective
     duties. As regards agriculture, I am opposed to all
     legislation against the subdivision of land ... but if you
     want to have small occupiers of land, you must vote for
     duties on corn.'

Account must at the same time be taken of the heavy and increasing charges that fall on landed
property for the administration of rural districts in Norway. While the inhabitants of the
rural communities contribute towards the support of the Central Administration only in the
form of Customs and Excise duties, stamps, succession duties, and contributions towards the
construction of highways, the burthen of local administration, justice, police, prisons, the
Church, public instruction, poor relief, sanitary service, parochial roads, posting stations,
interest on communal loans, &c., falls on their landed property. This self-assessed and self-imposed
burthen has naturally been growing more heavy, from year to year, under the exigencies of modern
progress. Thus, while the total communal expenditure in 1853 was 167,000l., it had risen to
497,000l. in 1880, or 197-1/2 per cent. About one half of the requisite resources is derived
from a tax on the cadastral value of real property; the remaining half is raised by a tax on
capital and income. In 1880 the communal impositions on land represented a taxation of about
6s. 7d. per head of the rural population. That the whole of the communal expenditure is not
covered by taxation is apparent from the fact, that in the same year the rural districts had
increased the amount of their total debts to about half a million sterling, from 312,000l. in 1874.

In this respect it is certainly significant to discover that Poor Relief, organized by a law
passed in 1863, is the largest item of communal expenditure, being indeed very little less
than half of the total annual liabilities of the rural districts, in a country in which, in
the halcyon days of Mr. Laing, only the infirm were supported for a few days at a time by the
yeomen farmers. He appears to have attributed this to the absence of collieries, the introduction
of coal as fuel having, he argues, been coëval in England with the imposition of a rate for
the poor, deprived by that industry of the work of chopping up firewood which gave so much
employment to idle hands in Norway. However that might be, in 1880 and 1881 the number of persons
in receipt of relief or maintained in hospital, at the charge of rural communities alone, was
respectively 109,688 and about 114,000, or in both years a little over 7 per cent. of the total
rural population. Inclusive of urban districts the same totals amounted in those years to 81
and 83 per 1000, or above 8 per cent. of the population of the kingdom, the cost of support
having been about 3s. 10d. per head of the entire population, which contributed 2s. 9d. per
head in special taxation for that object, and the balance in an indirect manner, apparently
by housing paupers, &c.

These paupers include cotters and labourers, as well as the ruined among the smaller yeomen.
Farmers who had previously been able to employ labour, 'no longer find their advantage in it,'
and consequently--

     'even able-bodied workmen (in Hedemarken) were compelled to
     seek relief from the Poor Fund when their families were
     large. The smaller farmers and the labourers are in the
     worst plight, since the falling off in the timber trade has
     made them feel the want of the usual steady demand for
     labour at high wages.' Further: 'it has become very
     difficult for the least affluent and for labourers to gain a
     livelihood in the prevailing money and timber crisis.... The
     depression must for a long time be felt by many.

We need only point out that, in the United Kingdom, the percentage of persons in receipt of
relief during the year 1881 was 3 per cent. in England and Wales, 2.6 per cent. in Scotland,
and 11 per cent. in Ireland,[20] involving an expenditure at the rate respectively of 6s. 3d.,
4s. 6d., and 3s. 9d. per head of population.

Obviously, the relatively greater cost of relieving the poor in Great Britain is due to the
more expensive character of the support afforded, and to the very heavy sums paid for salaries
and other establishment charges; but it is unquestionably a damaging fact against the system
of land tenure in Norway, that the pauperism by which it is in the present day accompanied,
with a strong tendency to increase, is equalled only by the state of things in Ireland, which
certain legislators now desire to remedy by the creation of peasant proprietors.

The relative state of matters in Great Britain and in Norway has therefore greatly changed
since Mr. Laing wrote:

     'The distribution of the wealth and employment of a country
     has much more to do, than the amount, with the well-being
     and condition of the people. The wealth and employment of
     the British nation far exceed those of any other nation; yet
     in no country is so large a proportion of the inhabitants
     sunk in pauperism and wretchedness.'

An increasing rate of pauperism is one of the symptoms of agricultural distress in Norway,
but the strong tide of emigration from rural and urban districts marks with equal force the
depression and congestion from which the country is suffering in the same degree as the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Aided by improved and cheapened means of transport, the
number of emigrants from Norway ranged between 20,212 in 1880 and 22,167 in 1883, giving an
average of 1.3 to 1.5 per cent. of the total population, the contingent of the rural districts
being about 70 per cent. of the total number. As in the case of pauperism, the corresponding
rate of emigration from Ireland, namely 1.5 per cent., exhibits a remarkable similarity, and
affords another convincing proof that peasant proprietorship is no panacea for rustic indigence.

Those who have not studied the present economic condition of the yeoman farmer and agricultural
labourer in Norway, or who have not taken into consideration the change that has come over
the entire country, and the ambition, as distinguished from previous apathy, which education
and communication with an outer world, no longer closed to them, has awakened among the classes
with which we are dealing, are inclined to attribute a good part of this emigrating tendency
to the influence and the material assistance of those who have gone before. Indisputably, the
Norwegian emigrant, by his persevering labour and steady conduct, rarely fails to succeed in
Wisconsin and other States, in which he is always a welcome settler; and consequently he soon
finds himself able to transmit money for the purpose of enabling his brothers and sisters,
and not seldom his father and mother, to join him. No State or other aid is afforded for such
purposes to Norwegians, although it is occasionally the case, that the hard cash with which
the emigrant leaves his home is derived from the proceeds of a loan raised by the head of his
family for the purpose of buying out co-heirs under the Odels ret, adding thereby, as we have
already shown, to the indebtedness with which the land is burdened. Others, also, maintain
that many young men emigrate from Norway in order to avoid military conscription, which, although
milder there in its demands than in most other European countries where that system exists,
undoubtedly diminishes the quantity and deteriorates the quality of agricultural labour. The
strongest incentive to emigration, however, is the desire to escape from the misery and penury
which accompany in Norway, as in every other part of Europe, the condition of a small landowner,
cotter, or labourer who is unable to find regular employment on adjoining estates that can
be kept going, if nothing more, with the aid of scientific knowledge, machinery and capital.

There is, however, yet another proof of the prevalent material malaise in Norway, particularly
among its rural classes, and strangely enough it bears the same character as that which has
brought the 'three acres and a cow' and Irish land bills, past and expected, into such prominent
relief in our country of lack-lands, namely political agitation. Whatever may be its merits
or demerits on this side of the North Sea, our readers will scarcely be prepared to learn that
a corresponding ferment has been engendered of late years on the opposite shores. We are told
this by the Prefect of South Trondhjem, one of the most important provinces of a country where,
in the days of Mr. Laing, there was a dead-level of contentment, where the widest form of home-rule
has been in operation since the early part of the present century, and where the Crown Administration
has all that time been more pure, blameless and efficient than in any other country on the
Continent of Europe. His significant words are:

     'As everywhere else in Norway, particularly in rural
     districts, politicians (i. e. agitators) are here taking
     more and more hold over the minds of the people. Political
     unrest increases, and immature and extreme opinions are
     being advanced more than is desirable. The quiet, temperate,
     but progressive development to which Norway had previously
     been accustomed, and with which the great bulk of the nation
     had been well content, is in danger of being replaced by a
     progress in fits and starts, accompanied by leaps in the
     dark.'

No less painful and suggestive is it to find, in the Report from the Prefect of Hedemarken,
that 'the Christian earnestness of the people has suffered under the influence of the many
misleading writings and tendencies which have in recent times found their way into every stratum
of society.' As at home, so in Norway, the question of Church Disestablishment, with all its
consequences, is approaching within measurable distance of practical solution.[21]

Supported by official publications, we have now described the present condition of the yeomen
farmers of Norway, and from the facts and figures we have marshalled, the following replies
may confidently be given to the Socialistic theories and conclusions of Mr. Laing:

1. Notwithstanding, or rather in part owing to, the existence of the Allodial Right [which
has proved in its results to be an exaggerated form of primogeniture involving a greater multiplication
of encumbrances even than exists under the system of land tenure in the United Kingdom], an
excessive subdivision of the land has occurred and is still proceeding in Norway, to the prejudice
of estates which in 1836, and even later, afforded moderate ease and contentment to their owners,
and relatively well remunerated labour to the workman and the cotter.

2. The dead-level of comfortable subsistence, attributed by Mr. Laing to the parcelling-out
of land into small estates, has been converted, by the influence of irresistible economic laws,
into one of general distress and discontent among the rural classes.

3. The rates of pauperism and emigration prove that the agrarian population has not, as prophesied
by Mr. Laing, kept 'within the bounds of possible modern existence.'

4. The taxation of landed property, for local purposes, has greatly increased, particularly
under the head of Poor Relief; and

5. The distressed condition of the yeoman farmer in Norway is strongly attested by his heavy
and growing indebtedness. He may now, in fact, be classed with the proverbially derided Fife
laird, owning 'A wee bit of land, a great lump of debt, and a dookit.'[22]

Such being the result of our enquiries into the economic condition of the great bulk of the
yeoman farmers of Norway, the ideal fabric reared by Mr. Laing at a time when the Norse old
world was still asleep, falls utterly to the ground, and there remains but one of his statements
that we can with any advantage submit to the earnest attention of our readers, namely, that
'A single fact brought home from such a country is worth a volume of speculations.' We go further
and say, that facts in relation to the question of land tenure collected in any other part
of Europe are of equally inestimable value; and they have already been supplied in great abundance
from Belgium, France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland.[23] Nothing can truly be more fatal to
the successful solution of such intricate problems than the relief of the agricultural distress
of England and Scotland, or the satisfaction of the alleged earth-hunger of the Celtic population
of Ireland, than to initiate legislation on the hypothesis that circumstances alter cases,
and that our own country can with impunity be withdrawn from the operation of economic laws
that have asserted their supremacy throughout the entire Continent of Europe.

As history repeats itself, so are the laws of civilized development both general and inexorable.
Even in the extreme case of Russia, it has been proved, in an article we published a few years
ago,[24] that a heavy and ruinous price has been paid for the emancipation of the serfs on
a Socialistic and partly Communistic basis, and on the erroneous assumption, that the continued
existence of the 'Mir' (the ancient village community even of India) was an institution indigenous
to the country itself, and therefore worthy of being perpetuated by legislation. Millions of
a rural population, freed from personal servitude, were chained anew to the land by the indebtedness
incurred in the expropriation of the lords of the soil. The allotments, averaging ten acres,
parcelled out among them in 1861, were estimated to be sufficiently large and productive to
provide not only for their support, but also, firstly, for the payment of the 'redemption dues'
with which the allotted lands were charged for a limited period of years at an average rate
of only 1s. 9d. per acre, and secondly, for the punctual payment of the moderate poll-tax,
which the exigencies of the State required them to contribute. Those expectations began to
vanish soon after they had been formed, and at the present time we see the previously rich
agricultural plains of Russia, abandoned, as they almost wholly are, to the slovenly husbandry
of a rude and greatly demoralized peasantry, deteriorating from year to year in the quality
of their produce, and thereby opposing less and less impediment to the successful competition
of other corn-growing countries.[25] The great fall that has taken place in the value of Russian
cereals is apparent from the fact that, notwithstanding the depreciation of the paper currency
of the country to the extent of about 25 per cent. since the serfs were emancipated (and nearly
37 per cent. from the par value of the standard rouble), the corn-grower in Russia actually
receives for his produce, in paper money, some 40 per cent, less than he obtained for it when
the currency was less debased.

Despair, and the absence of that restraint which education, and the moral elevation inseparable
from it, are establishing in other European countries, have driven the rural inhabitants of
entire districts, and even provinces, into habits of drunkenness stronger and more general
than those which existed before the autocratic creation of 'peasant proprietors' in Russia.

Among the earliest measures adopted in Russia during the present reign was that of a reduction
and partial remission of the 'redemption dues,' which, on the 1st of January, 1885, represented
the interest and sinking fund on nearly 113 millions sterling,[26] expended by the Government
in the partial expropriation of the now ruined landlords of the country.[27]

During the year 1884, alone, those reductions and remissions inflicted a loss of 1,135,000l.[28]
on the Imperial Treasury. The most recent measure of alleviation has been the total abolition
of the poll-tax[29] (to be completed by the end of the present year); and, consequently, the
State-contribution of at least 85 per cent. of the population of Russia is being limited to
the excise duty on drink, an item of revenue with which the Imperial Government cannot possibly
dispense, since it brings in a sum more than adequate for the maintenance of the imposing military
forces of the Empire.

Simultaneously, 'Peasant Land Banks' have been established by the State in order to facilitate
the purchase of still more land by the ex-serfs. The Minister of Finance was authorized in
1882 to issue annually for that purpose a sum of 500,000l. in bonds, bearing 5-1/2 per cent.
interest. But, by the 1st of January, 1886, these banks had already advanced over three millions
sterling to 785 Communes, 1576 'partnerships,' and 359 individual peasants, representing an
aggregate number of 112,765 householders. On loans for 24-1/2 years the interest and sinking
fund, payable by the borrowers, amount to 8-1/2 per cent., and on those for 34-1/2 years, to
7-1/2 per cent., the lands purchased by such means remaining inalienable until the extinction
of the mortgages, except with the consent of the mortgagees, i. e. the banks. The effects of
this new departure in the direction of providing small landed proprietors with State funds,
will no doubt soon be apparent.

Whether, therefore, we examine the experience of a civilized, orderly, home-ruled country like
Norway, with a steady, laborious, and, we may almost say, abstemious, population in many respects
akin to our own, or that of a State still at an immensely distant stage of social development,--and
under a very different form of Government,--the salient results of bolstering up, by means
of State loans, or of artificially creating, equally at the cost of the State, a numerous body
of small landed proprietors, have been strikingly identical in regard to the ultimate economic
condition of the agrarian classes.

Insisting, as we do, on the strength of the facts we have adduced, that, in old Europe, the
operation of economic laws affecting land tenure, admits of no exceptions or extenuating circumstances
in favour of their violation, it appears impossible, without presumptuous sophistry or political
dishonesty, to resist the conclusion, that the infringement of those laws in any part of the
United Kingdom could only terminate, infallibly and speedily, in damage to the State, after
ruin to the individual.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] The physical results of intermarriage with the object of concentrating property, are very
apparent in many of the older Bonde families in Norway.

[6] It would not be right to allow this observation to pass without mentioning, even at the
cost of destroying so fascinating a picture of pastoral felicity, that the hard-working dairy-maids
of Norway are never accompanied by their sweethearts to the soeters, where, except from Saturday
night until Monday morning, when the young men find time to visit them, they lead the most
solitary lives, and are busy all day in milking cows and goats and making butter and cheese.

[7] In 1833 the total production of spirits in the rural districts amounted to about 3-1/2
gallons per head of the population. The demoralization that resulted from its increase necessitated
the enactment of restrictive measures, and at last, in 1848, the small stills were purchased
by the State, and private distillation was prohibited. As in Great Britain, the vice of drunkeness
is now decreasing in Norway, owing partly to the reduced means of the population, but chiefly
to the influence of education and of temperance societies.

[8] The average proportion of 1851-52 was 9.32 per cent. There is a difference of only 1 per
cent, between the rates of illegitimacy in rural and urban districts, to the disadvantage of
the latter.

[9] 'The French Constitution of 1791 is one of the principal sources of the Fundamental Law
of Norway. The suspensive veto has been derived from it.'--O. I. Broch.

[10] At the end of 1882, the total population was estimated at 1,922,500, or a decrease 3900
as compared with 1881, when the increase was only 1000 from the year preceding.

[11] In 1880, the average rate of wages for labourers engaged by the year in agricultural districts
was 8l. 10s. per annum, and that of daily labour, without food, 1s. 9d. per diem; the corresponding
rates in towns having been 11l. 6s. 8d. and 2s.

[12] Our readers must, however, bear in mind that we are dealing only with the rural economy
of Norway, and that the facts we shall submit on that subject affect but slightly the general
financial condition of a country which continues to derive its earnings mainly from the supply
of timber, fish, wood-pulp, ice, &c., to foreign countries, and from its extensive carrying
trade in sailing vessels and steamers. The prosperity of the towns is influenced chiefly by
the state of trade in the rest of Europe, while being (to the extent of 122 out of 128) situated
on the seaboard, their successful development reacts but little on the prosperity of the inland
agricultural districts.

[13] In the 'Tables of Landed Property,' published in 1880, the holdings (in 1865) are classified
as follows:--

Properties under 5 acres                 34,224 or 15.5 per cent.
    "      between 5 and 12-1/2 acres    42,984  " 32.1    "
    "         "    12-1/2 and 50  "      48,575  " 36.2    "
    "      above 50 acres                 8,208  "  6.2    "

[14] The italics our own. The author states that it is the custom among the peasants of Norway
that when the eldest son or the daughter of the house (when there is no son), marries, the
parents surrender the property, but retain a right of subsistence upon it. This, he shows,
explains the existence of the large number of detached dwellings on the same estate, for very
often cottages have to be built for the accommodation of persons who have a right to subsistence,
which is not, however, limited to a dwelling-house, but frequently includes the usufruct of
a small plot of land and, almost always fodder for a certain number of cows and goats. See
also p. 386.

[15] The eldest of kin having allodial right.

[16] Between 1871 and 1875 Norway imported about 46 per cent. of the cereals required for home
consumption, in addition to pork, butter, and other articles of food.

[17] From statistics recently published, it appears that between 1881 and 1883 the price of
land, estimated on actual sales, has shown a tendency to rise in the Provinces which have a
coast line, populated by fisherman, &c., and to fall in most of the inland, more purely agricultural
districts.

[18] Dr. Broch shows that in 1875, which was an average year for crops, the production of cereals
and potatoes (reduced to the value of barley) was 3125 hectol. per 1000 inhabitants in Norway;
whereas the average crops in France yielded 7400 hectol. per 1000 of the population.

[19] In 1884 a motion to that effect was made in the Swedish Rigsdag by a peasant proprietor.
At present the duty on cereals imported into Norway is merely nominal, averaging about 2-1/2
per cent. ad valorem.

[20] From special causes, the number of persons relieved in 1881 and 1882 was exceptionally
high in Ireland. In 1879 it was 7-1/2 per cent., and in 1883 about 8 per cent. of the population.

[21] Hereditary nobility is already abolished. Under a law passed in 1821, all titles of nobility
become extinct in the persons of those who were born before 1822.

[22] I. e. dovecot.

[23] Lady Verney's 'Cottier-owners, Little Takes and Peasant Proprietors,' published last year,
is replete with facts drawn from actual life, showing that small peasant-proprietorship is
proving ruinous on the Continent, even where the system has grown up naturally.

[24] In No. 302, April 1881.

[25] It is certainly remarkable to find that Australian tallow, Indian linseed, and German
barley are being imported at St. Petersburg, whence those articles were, in the days of large
landed properties, extensively exported. The Minister of Finance, following the example of
Prince Bismarck, attempts to check this competition with the staple products of the small landed
proprietors by imposing protective duties.

[26] Rs. 846,068,368, at the exchange of 32d., current when the great bulk of the expropriations
were effected.

[27] In provinces of Russia Proper alone, the landed proprietors (exclusive of the ex-serfs)
have mortgaged their estates in various land and other banks to the extent of 30-3/4 per cent.
of their aggregate acreage, the total remaining debt on such lands being about 49 millions
sterling at the present reduced value of the rouble, or 65 millions sterling at the rate of
exchange adopted in estimating the indebtedness of the peasantry.

[28] At the same rate of exchange.

[29] This tax had previously given to the Imperial Treasury a sum of about 5-1/2 millions sterling,
at the depreciated rate of exchange. It was assessed at rates that varied in the different
Provinces between 2s. 7d. and 4s. 4d. per head of the male registered population, or 'per soul.'

Art.

The character of Oliver Cromwell might, for our part, have rested undisturbed among the 'old,
unhappy, far off things' of history, had it been our intention to fight over again, on the
old lines, the contention whether he was a hero or a knave. On the contrary, towards the solution
of that question a method, as yet untried, has been adopted. Instead of attempting a review
of Cromwell's whole career, to gain an idea of what manner of man he was, a single train of
events, in which his hand was visible throughout, has been subjected to some degree of scrutiny.
A man's words and deeds, although arising only on one occasion, may supply an effectual test
of his real self. There could, for instance, be hardly any doubt regarding the leading bias
of his disposition, if a supremely able ruler, that he may procure his safety, consents to--

                              'play one scene
    Of excellent dissembling, and let it look
    Like perfect honour.'

These lines disclose our case. With prescient genius Shakspeare has described the part that
Cromwell took in an event which occurred under his Protectorate, the so-called Insurrection
of March 1655; and in our examination into the secret history of that occurrence lies the test
that we have applied to Cromwell's character.

The revelation that we are attempting is not, however, free from inherent difficulty. In these
days of literature made easy, the products of close research are not readily acceptable. To
open up a new vista in history, much has to be cut down, much put into new order; and the reader
must unavoidably share in the labours of the writer. And though some curiosity may be aroused
by the discovery of that which has remained hidden, for over two centuries; still, to gratify
that curiosity, many an ingrained idea must be laid aside. Difficult as it may seem to many,
Cromwell at the outset must be regarded not as 'our heroic One,' but as a man who sold himself
to falsehood, that he might 'ride in gilt coaches, escorted by the flunkeyisms, and most sweet
voices.' Nor to appreciate the secret of our character-test, can the assertion of any historian,
from Clarendon down to Carlyle's last imitator, be credited, that 'a universal rising of Royalists
combined with Anabaptists' broke out in March 1655. On the contrary, it must be accepted as
a preliminary condition in this investigation that England was, at that time, in a state of
immovable tranquillity, and that any insurrectionary movement during the year 1655 sprang from
a far-reaching design, which Cromwell practised alike on friends, neutrals, and enemies.

That this was the case has hitherto escaped notice. Every historian, who has taken part in
the Cromwelliad, regards that revolt as 'a very tragic reality;' they all agree, that it was
'prevented from breaking into a dangerous flame by vigilance, prompt action, and by necessary
severity.' That this event might be regarded in a very different light was an idea far from
every one of them. Proof, however, goes before disproof. The historians should have their say
first; and our readers must endure, for a few moments, what may be termed the received version
of the Insurrection of March 1655.

According to Godwin, 'A general rising was meditated about the beginning of March 1655, by
the Royalist party in various parts of England,--Yorkshire, Shropshire, Nottinghamshire, Devon
and Wilts,' and also in North Wales. 'Wilmot, about this time created Earl of Rochester, came
over to England' to head the enterprise, 'accompanied by Sir J. Wagstaff. Charles II., who
had spent the winter at Cologne, now came privately to Middleburg in Holland, that he might
be ready to pass over to England, if the condition of affairs authorized such a measure. The
activity of Cromwell and his assistants speedily defeated these multiplied intrigues. It does
not appear that hostilities anywhere were actually commenced, except in Yorkshire and the West
of England.'

As historians persist that on Marston Moor, the scene of the 'hostilities' in Yorkshire, an
actual affray occurred,--Carlyle throws in 'a few shots fired';--we must turn to the 'Perfect
Proceedings' News Letter, of March 1655, for a truer description of that event:--

     'York. The 8th of March instant, there was a meeting
     appointed by the Malignants in Yorkshire to surprise York
     City. To that end a party was to come on the west side of
     the City, where Sir Richard Malliverer, with divers others,
     was on their March. About 100 horse came with a cart load of
     arms and ammunition to Hessey (i. e. Marston) Moor. And at
     the wynd-mill upon the Moor there came some intelligence,
     that a party, that sh'd' have come on the other side of the
     City, was not ready that night. And more company failing,
     which they expected to meet them that night upon the Moor
     they suddenly and disorderly retreated; some Pistols was
     scattered and found next morning, and a led horse, with a
     velvet saddle, left in Skipbrig Lane, which was found next
     day.'

In Wiltshire, however, the Royalists effected a brief revolt, an incident which the following
quotation from Carlyle will readily recall to mind:--

