And not only do the medicine-men dispute among themselves, but their followers engage even
more vehemently in bitter strife. For instance, there is a national belief that the juby-juby
nut, which grows in the forests in profusion, possesses some supernatural virtue that will
make a man who chews it impervious to the weapons of his enemies. That this virtue exists is
generally accepted; but when it comes to a discussion of how, when and where to chew the nut,
much wrangling goes on; and such men as survive in battle claim that their particular method
is proved to be the correct one, while such as succumb are cited in proof of the error of their
process of absorbing the juices of the juby-juby nut. The survivors include, of course, representatives
of various schools of thought, and a battle against a common enemy rarely goes by without being
immediately followed by a conflict among the surviving Kakekikokuans in order to put to final
proof their respective theories about their remarkable fruit. Thus a promising people is committing
race-suicide; for this sort of thing goes on not only in connection with this particular problem,
but over such questions as the number of beads to wear round one's neck when visiting the medicine-man,
whether the national custom of saluting the rising sun need be observed on cloudy mornings,
and whether the medicine-man is entitled to the pick of the yams on any day but Sunday. People
of different opinions on these points decline to eat together or to enter into social intercourse
with one another; and their children are forbidden to mingle in play.

The good news has just come to hand, however, that a band of Church of England missionaries,
despatched by the Bishop of ZANZIBAR, has now entered the country; and it is delightful to
contemplate the beneficent result that may be expected from their broadminded attitude and
their sane teaching on the subject of the brotherhood of man.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Berlin critics have been accusing Mr. Bernard Shaw of
    having committed in his 'Pygmalion,' produced in Germany the
    other day, a plagiarism from Smollett's novel, 'Peregrine
    Pickle.' Mr. Shaw denies that he has ever read the novel
    in question, and, in an interview in the London 'Observer,'
    remarks: 'The suggestion of the German papers that I had
    Pygmalion produced in Germany lest I should be detected in
    my own country of plagiarism, shows an amusing ignorance of
    English culture.'"--Yorkshire Evening Post.

It does. Why even our most cultured countryman, Mr. BERNARD SHAW, has never read Peregrine Pickle.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. Spademan, of Woodnewton, Northants, placed a dozen eggs
    under a hen some time ago, and there were hatched out thirteen
    chickens, one of the eggs being double-yolked. All the young
    birds are doing well.

    Burroughes and Watts' billiard tables for
    accuracy."--Birmingham Daily Mail.

They are, in fact, a lesson to Mr. STADEMAN's hens.

       *       *       *       *       *

LACONICS.

"As a matter of fact," said the doctor, "you ought not to speak at all. But that's asking too
much. So let it go at this--not a word more than is necessary. Good-bye.",

He left the room and I lay back pondering on his instructions. How many words were really necessary?

The nurse soon after entered.

"So the doctor's gone," she said.

Obviously it wasn't necessary to say Yes, since the room was empty save for me and her; so
I made no reply.

She went to the window and looked out. The sky was blue and the sunshine was brilliant.

"It's a fine day," she said.

No, I thought, you don't catch me there; and said nothing. But I reflected that yesterday I
might myself have made the same inane remark as she.

"Would you like the paper?" she asked.

"Yes," I said, and then almost regretted it, for having waited nearly fifty years for yesterday's
news surely I could wait longer. Still, the paper would help to pass the time.

While she was fetching it I remembered a dream of last night which I had intended to tell her
this morning.

But why do so? A dream is of no account even to the dreamer. Still, the recital might have
made her laugh. But why should laughter be bothered about?

The nurse brought the paper and I signified Thank you.

"I'll leave you for a while now," she said; "The fire's all right. Your drink's by the bed.
You'll ring if you want anything."

All these things I knew. My drink is always beside the bed; the bell is the natural communication
between me and the house. What a foolish chatterbox the woman was! I nodded and she went out.

On her return an hour or so later she asked, "Is there anything in the paper?"

Before answering I examined this question. What did it mean? It did not mean, Are the pages
this morning absolutely blank, for a change? It meant, Is there a good murder? Is any very
important person dead? In reply I handed the paper to her.

Instead of reading it she began a long account of her morning's walk. She told me where she
had been; whom she had seen; whom she had thought she had seen and then found that it was some
one else; what somebody had said. Not a syllable mattered, I now realised; but yesterday I
should have joined in the talk, asked questions, encouraged her in her foolishness.

Just before lunch my brother and a guest came into the room and began to talk about golf. My
brother said that he had been round in 98. This was his best since September, when he went
round in 97. He described his difficulties at the tenth hole.

It all seemed very idiotic to me, for the game was over and done with. Why rake it up?

The guest said that he had lost two balls, one of which was expensive. His driving had been
good, but in the short game he had been weak. He could never quite make up his mind whether
he putted best with a gun-metal putter or a wooden one.

My brother asked me if I remembered that long drive of his two years ago?

I nodded.

The nurse came in and told them to go. She then asked me if I was hungry.

"Very," I said.

She brought me some beef-tea and calf's-foot-jelly, remarking that they were easily taken and
"would not hurt my throat."

That was why they were chosen, of course.

In the afternoon I had a visit from my Aunt Lavinia, who sat down with the remark that she
would tell me all the news.

"You remember Esther?" she began.

Esther is my cousin and we were brought up together. How could I have forgotten her?

What she told me about Esther was of no consequence. Then she told me how she had nearly lost
her luggage at Brighton--she quite thought she had lost it, in fact--but, as it happened, it
turned up. "And if I had lost it," she said, "it would have been dreadful, for I had a number
of dear Stella's beautiful sketches in one of my trunks. Quite irreplaceable. However, it is
all right."

Then why tell me?

And so she rattled on.

"You don't say anything," she said at last.

It was true. I had said nothing. I told her what the doctor instructed.

"Quite right," she remarked. "I wish other people even in good health could have the same prescription."

Just before dinner my brother came in again. "You've had Aunt Lavinia here," he said.

I had.

"Getting quite grey, I thought," he said.

I had noticed it too.

He was smoking, and while he was with me he emptied his pipe and filled it again. He thought
he had knocked the burning ash in the grate, but it had fallen in the turn-up of his right
trouser-leg.

Should I tell him? I wondered. He would, of course, find it out from the smell, but meanwhile
the cloth would be burned through.

"Your trouser's burning," I said.

