I am asked to hear many who have voices with promise of beauty, but who have obviously not
the intelligence necessary to take up a career, for it does require considerable intelligence
to succeed in opera, in spite of opinions to the contrary expressed by many. Others, who have
keen and alert minds and voices of fine quality, yet lack that certain esprit and broadness
of musical outlook required in a great artist. This lack is often so apparent in the person's
manner or bearing that I am tempted to tell him it is no use before he utters a note. Yet it
would not do to refuse a hearing to all these misfits, for there is always the chance of encountering
the unknown genius, however rare a bird he may be.

And how often have the world's great voices been discovered by chance, but fortunately by some
one empowered to bring out the latent gift!

One finds in America many beautiful voices, and when one thinks of the numerous singers successfully
engaged in operatic careers both here and abroad, it cannot with justice be said as it used
to be several years ago that America does not produce opera singers. Naturally a majority of
those to whom I give a hearing here in New York are Americans, and of these are a number of
really remarkable voices and a fairly good conception of what is demanded of an opera singer.

Sometimes, however, it would be amusing if it were not tragic to see how much off the track
people are who have been led to think they have futures. One young man who came recently to
sing for me carried a portentous roll of music and spoke in the deepest of bass voices. When
asked what his main difficulty was he replied that he "didn't seem to be able to get on the
key." And this was apparent when he started in and wandered up and down the tonal till he managed
to strike the tonic. Then he asked me whether I would rather hear "Qui sdegno," from Mozart's
"Magic Flute," or "Love Me and the World is Mine." Upon the latter being chosen he asked the
accompanist to transpose it, and upon this gentleman's suggesting a third lower, he said: "No,
put it down an octave." And that's where he sang it, too. I gently but firmly advised the young
man to seek other paths than musical ones. However, such extreme examples as that are happily rare.

I would say to all young people who are ambitious to enter on a career of opera: Remember,
it is a thoroughly hard-worked profession, after all; that even with a voice of requisite size
and proper cultivation there is still a repertory of rôles to acquire, long months and years
of study for this and requiring a considerable feat of memory to retain them even after they
are learned. Then there is the art of acting to be studied, which is, of course, an entire
occupation in itself and decidedly necessary in opera, including fencing--how to fall properly,
the various gaits and gestures wherewith to portray different emotions, etc. Then, as opera
is sung nowadays, the knowledge of the diction of at least three languages--French, German
and Italian--if not essential, is at least most helpful.