HISTORY OF LANDED AND COMMERCIAL POLICY OF ENGLAND--HISTORY OF EDWARD II.

Who was the author of the two following works?--"Remarks upon the History of the Landed and
Commercial Policy of England, from the Invasion of the Romans to the Accession of James I.
2 vols. London: printed for E. Brooke, in Bell Yard, Temple Bar, MDCCLXXXV."

"The History of the Life, Reign, and Death of Edward II, King of England and Lord of Ireland,
with the Rise and Fall of his great Favourites, Gaveston and the Spencers. Written by E.F.
in the year 1627, and printed verbatim from the original. London: Printed by J.C. for Charles
Harper, at the Flower-de-Luce in Fleet St.; Samuel Crouch, at the Princes' Arms, in Pope's
head Alley in Cornhill; and Thomas Fox, at the Angel in Westminster Hall, 1680. (a portrait
of Ed. II.)" In the 1st vol. Harl. Miscell. it is said that the above was found with the papers
of the first Lord Falkland, and is attributed to him. My copy has Faulconbridge inserted in
MS. over the F., and a book plate of Earl Verney, motto "Prodesse quam conspici," with an escutcheon
of pretence.

ANGLO-CAMBRIAN

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REVEREND THOMAS LEMAN.

Mr. Editor,--Amongst the later authorities on subjects of British-Roman antiquity, the Rev.
Thomas Leman is constantly referred to, and in terms of great commendation.

Can you inform me whether that gentleman published any work or made an avowed communication
of any of his researches? His name is not found in the Index to the Archæologia.

Mr. Leman contributed largely to Mr. Hatcher's edition of Richard of Cirencester; but it is
one of the unsatisfactory circumstances of this work that these contributions, and whatever
may have been derived from the late Bishop of Cloyne, are merely acknowledged in general terms,
and are not distinguished as they occur.

I believe the MS. of the work was all in Mr. Hatcher's handwriting; some of your readers may
possibly have the means of knowing in what way he used the materials thus given, or to what
extent they were adapted or annotated by himself.

A.T. Coleman Street, Nov. 13.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE.

Sir,--Will any of your readers favour me with an account of the origin, as well as the date
of introduction, of the term "Gothic," as applied to the Pointed Styles of Ecclesiastical Architecture?

This Query is, of course, intimately connected with the much-disputed question of the origin
of the Pointed Style itself. But yet I imagine that the application of the term "Gothic" may
be found to be quite distinct, in its origin, from the first rise of the Pointed Arch. The
invention of the Pointed Arch cannot, surely, be attributed to the Goths; whence then the origin
and the meaning of the term Gothic?

R. VINCENT. Winchester, Nov. 12.

       *       *       *       *       *

KATHERINE PEGG.

Sir,--I think you may safely add Pepys's Diary to the list of books in illustration of which
you are willing to receive both Queries and Answers. There is not a passage in the Diary that
does not deserve to be understood. {60}

At vol. iv. p. 435. of the new edition is the following entry:--

    "7 May, 1668.

On this Lord Braybrooke has the following note:--

    "Pegg must have been Margaret Hughes, Prince Rupert's mistress,
    who had probably before that time lived with Sir Charles
    Sedley."

And then follows some account of Mrs. Hughes. But, query, was the "Pegg" of the Diary, Peg
Hughes? was she not rather as I belived her to have been, Katherine Pegg, by whom king Charles
II. had a son, Charles Fitz-Charles, created Earl of Plymouth, 29th July, 1675, died 1680?

Katherine Pegg has escaped Lord Braybrooke. Can any of your correspondents tell me who she was?

PETER CUNNINGHAM

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES IN MEDIÆVAL GEOGRAPHY.

What are the modern names of "Watewich," "Portum Pusillum," "Mare de Saham," "Perpessa," and
"Northmuth?" They are not to be found in Ferrario's Lexicon (a geographical dictionary so defective
that it has not even the Latin name for Aix-la-Chapelle), nor in Baudrand's Lexicon Geographicum
(a good dictionary for the mediæval Latin names in France, but not so perfect as the Index
Geographicum attached to the volumes of Bouquet), nor in Martiniere's Grande Dictionnarie Geographique,
nor in the Index to Wright's Courthand, a miserable and imperfect compilation.

    [These Queries are addressed to our correspondents in a very
    flattering review of "NOTES AND QUERIES" which appeared in the
    Morning Herald of the 16th of November, and we shall be very
    glad to receive such answers to all or any of them as it may be
    in the power of any of our friends to supply.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MYLES BLOOMFYLDE AND WILLIAM BLOMEFIELD'S METRICAL WRITINGS ON ALCHYMY.

Sir,--I have had intrusted to me a MS. metrical book on Alchymy, "written by me Myles Bloomefylde,
late of Bury Saynes Edmunde in ye Countye of Suffolke, Physytione;" but I can find no account
of the author. Worton, Ritson, and Tanner, mention a "William Blomefield, born at Bury. Bachelor
in Physic and a Monk of Bury," who wrote inter alia a metrical work called Bloomefield's Blossoms,
or the Camp of Philosophy.

Were there two metrical writers on alchymy of the name Bloomfield, temp. Eliz. and connected
with Bury?

BURIENSIS.

    [The following Note by Park, which first appeared in the Edition
    of Wharton published in 1840, iii., p. 83., coupled with the
    fact that William Blomefield is described as a Bachelor of
    Physic, would seem to show that there is but one writer, whose
    proper name is not William, but Myles: "From Ashmole's Notes on
    Theatrum Chemicum, 1652. p. 478., it seems doubtful whether his
    name was not Myles."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THYNNE'S COLLECTION OF CHANCELLORS.

Mr. Editor,--Can any of your correspondents inform me who was the "streict laced" gaoler of
the records, alluded to in the following passage in the Collection of Chancellors of England,
by Francis Thynne, inserted in Holinshed (ed. 1808) iv. 351.

    "John, Chancellor of England in the time of king Henrie the
    second, but what he was or in what yeare of king Henrie he lived
    I doo not know, and therefore leave it to him that both can and
    ought to give life to these persons whom he imprisoneth in the
    east castell of London; not doubting but in time he will doo his
    countrie good, and correct other men; though now he be so
    streict laced, as that he will not procure anie furtherance of
    other men's trauels."

[Greek: S.]

       *       *       *       *       *

COLD HARBOUR

Mr. Editor,--In examining the Ordnance Survey of Kent, I was quite surprised at the recurrence
of the name "Cold Harbour;" and again, in Wyld's Map of London in 1550.

I believe the point has been explained before, but perhaps some of your readers could give
some information as to its origin.

G.H.B.

Nov. 8. 1849.

    [The Society of Antiquaries was a good deal occupied, we
    scarcely know whether we may say interested, in the question
    raised by our correspondent, during the last session: and
    considerable {61} information upon the subject will be found in
    the published Proceedings of the Society, and in the last part
    of the Archæologia. We should like to know whether there are
    Cold Harbours in every county in England. Mr. Hartshorne
    published a long list in his Salopia Antiqua. If our
    correspondents can give us any addition to that list, they will
    be acceptable. We are aware that there are several in Kent.]

       *       *       *       *       *

STATISTICS OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.