Other Countries.--A great number of the German and French barracks are erected in the form
of a large block of three or four storeys containing all the accommodation and accessories
for officers, married and single non-commissioned officers and men, of a complete battalion
or regiment in one building. Some of the [v.03 p.0431] modern barracks, however, are arranged
more on the pavilion system with separate blocks; but the single block system is well liked
on account of its compactness and the facility it gives for supervision; it is also more satisfactory
from the architectural point of view. The system of allotment and arrangement of accommodation
for these two great armies does not differ much, except in detail, from that adopted by the
British army. The floor and cubic space allotted per man is a little less; accommodation for
officers is not usually provided, except to a limited extent, unless the barracks are on a
country site. The German army, however, now provides every regiment with a fine officers' mess-house
furnished at the public expense. Married quarters for some of the non-commissioned officers
are provided, but not for privates. American barracks are interesting, as providing for perhaps
a higher class of recruit than usual; they are well designed and superior finish internally
is given. The barracks are arranged usually on the separate block system, and centre round
a post-exchange or soldiers' club, which is a combined recreation establishment, gymnasium
and sergeants' mess, with bath-house attached. Canteens for the sale of liquor were abolished
in 1901.

See The Barrack Synopsis (1905); The Handbook of Design and Construction of Military Buildings
(1905); The Army Regulations, India, vol. xii.

(E. N. S.)

BARRANDE, JOACHIM (1799-1883), Austrian geologist and palaeontologist, was born at Saugues,
Haute Loire, on the 11th of August 1799, and educated in the École Polytechnique at Paris.
Although he had received the training of an engineer, his first appointment was that of tutor
to the duc de Bordeaux (afterwards known as the comte de Chambord), grandson of Charles X.,
and when the king abdicated in 1830, Barrande accompanied the royal exiles to England and Scotland,
and afterwards to Prague. Settling in that city in 1831, he became occupied in engineering
works, and his attention was then attracted to the fossils from the Lower Palaeozoic rocks
of Bohemia. The publication in 1839 of Murchison's Silurian System incited Barrande to carry
on systematic researches on the equivalent strata in Bohemia. For ten years (1840-1850) he
made a detailed study of these rocks, engaging workmen specially to collect fossils, and in
this way he obtained upwards of 3500 species of graptolites, brachiopoda, mollusca, crustacea
(particularly trilobites) and fishes. The first volume of his great work, Système silurien
du centre de la Bohême (dealing with trilobites), appeared in 1852; and from that date until
1881, he issued twenty-one quarto volumes of text and plates. Two other volumes were issued
after his death in 1887 and 1894. It is estimated that he spent nearly £10,000 on these works.
In addition he published a large number of separate papers. In recognition of his important
researches the Geological Society of London in 1855 awarded to him the Wollaston medal.

