The netting was carefully spread out on the Nicholson pavement in the centre of the pretty
square that you will remember if you have ever been in Cleveland. The bags were filled from
a wagon-load of sand and hitched with snap-catches about the edges. So they stood about in
a circle. Then the aerostat, as the great bag is called, was unrolled and spread evenly over
this. An oiled-muslin tube was tied to the neck, and its other extreme to a gas main in a hole
which some of the workmen had dug for the purpose.

Next the gas was turned on. The bag began to rise, looking at first like ever so many young
whales all huddled together. The men now began, under the Professor's direction, to pull the
netting over to hold the bag down. The sand-bags were brought closer and set along on either
side of the tube. The bag now began to grow round and plump. Groups of lookers-on kept growing,
too, until all the square was alive with them. The helpers kept walking around the swelling
globe, changing the bags to lower strands of the netting; and so it continued until by two
o'clock the balloon was full--that is, allowance was made only for expansion when the balloon
should have reached the clouds.

Every few moments the breeze would sway the monster to and fro, and it seemed chafing to break
away. Soon after, the basket was tied upon the ring, and into this a great heap of sand-bags
was piled, and a lot of ropes, an anchor, an aneroid, thermometer, compass and other accessories
tied into the rigging or outside of the basket.

How grandly she stood there, the vast dome towering above the trees, her amber sides bright
with decorations and her shapely globe held in leash by the white network--but bless me! here's
more than four pages used up, and we haven't started yet.

At precisely four o'clock the Professor's cheery voice was heard all through the square as
he sang out, "All aboard!" And his eight companions responded as soon as they could get through
the dense crowd that surged on every side.

Now the sole remaining rope which held us to the earth was gripped by a score of eager men.

The order came, "Let go!" The basket was raised a few feet and then settled slowly back. This
made the crowd laugh.

"Throw out two bags!" cried the Professor.

Then--then how grandly we lifted! How the cannon roared and bands added their noise to the
shouts of the hundred thousand people whose faces were all turned toward our little wicker car!

The writer was sand-man, and following orders, he let out the contents of another bag which
fell in a swift gray stream plump down into the midst of a little group of young ladies who
were seated on a house-top.

If it happens that this book reaches that family, opportunity is now taken to apologize to
those young ladies for thus pouring sand down the backs of their necks.

Well, we sailed along grandly, soon leaving the city far behind--I forgot to say that just
as we were leaving, a darkey in a white apron came through the crowd bringing us a hamper of
good things. What an appetite this keen upper air gave us, to be sure! We ate and drank and
toasted everything and everybody.

Pretty soon one of the boys said, (we were all newspaper men, and spoke of each other as "boys"):

"Listen a moment!"

And we all held our breaths. What supreme silence! the gentle sighing of the wind among the
trees a mile below, the barking of dogs, or subdued shouts of excited villagers, was all we
could hear--but hark!

We were approaching a small town. In the square, through the gathering twilight, we could discern
a crowd, and now there came to us, refined by distance, the familiar notes, played by the village
band, of "Up in a balloon, boys!"

We passed over the village, and the Professor pulled the valve cord gently, so we dropped towards
the place and cheered in reply.

"Now let's give them a song," said the Professor.

So he began, and we came in on the chorus:

                     "Oh! 'twas old Sam Simons,
                     And young Sam Simons,
                       Old Sam Simons' son:
                     Now young Sam Simons
                     Is old Sam Simons,
                       For old Sam Simons is gone."

I wish the editor would only give me room to tell you about the scores of funny things that
happened that afternoon; but after all, the real adventures happened the next day. So I can
only speak briefly of the pretty carrier-pigeons we loosed, which flew swiftly back to Cleveland,
bearing our messages to the newspapers--short notes only, to be sure, wrapped about their slender
legs, and which appeared in the papers the following morning. One of these I find in the scrap-book
before me, for it was returned to me some weeks afterwards. It reads:

  "We've just eaten supper out of our hamper, unhampered by any
  fears as to breakfast. Supper above the clouds is what I call high
  living. We can see you yet, but you are only a smoky stain upon the
  shore of Lake Erie. The Professor says we are to go into camp and
  then continue trip to-morrow. Good-night."

It would never do, either, to forget the plucky dog which ran after our drag-rope as it trailed
along the ground when we were quite near the earth, and held on with his teeth though we pulled
him along over the stubble on his back, and never let go until we had jerked him plumb over
a fence.

I've been in all sorts of camps--military camps, hunting camps and camp meetings, but never
dreamed of such a thing as a balloon camp before! By the help of some farmers we filled the
great basket with stones and then pitched a tent and made a fire at a safe distance. Lines
were run to trees in three directions, loosely to give the balloon "play" in case of much wind,
and then we all lay down in our blankets and tried to sleep.

At the very first signs of dawn we were up, and there she stood in the still air just like
a vision. At sunrise a hospitable farmer invited us to breakfast, and wasn't it good? I'll
never forget that coffee.

By eight o'clock quite a large number of country folks had reached the field. Teams were hitched
all along the fences. Now the Professor announced that as he wished to make a long trip that
day, he should carry plenty of ballast and so could allow only two persons with him. It had
been agreed that we should draw cuts, and this was done good-naturedly. The

choice fell upon a photographer, and the writer.

We were sorry indeed to leave our companions behind us, but there was no help for it. So we
took our seats in the basket, said good-by, and were off.

Now we went up! up! UP! passing through a thin cloud that made everything below look dim and
distant. We were in the region where November spends the summer. Whew! how chilly it was. We
wrapped our overcoats and blankets close about us and our teeth chattered. Then we rubbed our
hands and faces. Why! how queerly they looked and felt.

"Ha! ha! look at the Professor's face. Why! there ain't a wrinkle left!" said the photographer.

And so it proved. The aneroid told us that we were over three miles from the ground, and the
atmosphere was so diminished in pressure that the internal forces of the body pressed outward
and made the skin full and smooth.

One of yesterday's party had provided some large envelopes with long red tails of tissue paper
to drop into towns, and we wrote messages and enclosed them in some of these, putting sand
in one end, and launched them. We watched them as they shot hither and yon in their swift flight
toward the earth. The chance finder was requested to send the contents to the nearest telegraph
office, but we never heard from any of them, save one.

About noon we found by comparing our maps with the streams below that we had passed into Pennsylvania;
and not long afterwards we descried Oil City set upon the creek, with all its hills covered
with derricks and oil tanks.

Speaking of Oil City, reminds me of a rather funny incident: For a couple of years I had been
in correspondence with a young man who resided there, and who was also a journalist. His name
and mine were just the same. I had promised faithfully to stop and see him at any time chance
might bring me near his home. I took one of the envelopes and wrote a regret, dropping it over
the city. It was picked up in the road and handed to him, but he always insisted that I had
broken my promise unreasonably.

At the rate in which Oil City was left behind we knew our pace was very rapid, though to us
it all seemed like a dead calm, for we kept just even with the wind.

The Professor said we could reach New England by midnight if the wind held and it didn't grow
cloudy; but alas! for the past hour we had been watching a little fleecy nebulous bit of mist
that seemed, like a spirit, to spring from the nothingness of the blue ether, growing constantly,
and attracting other cloudlets which came toward it from all quarters of the heavens and were
swallowed up. A growing, whirling wall of pearly gray mounted and spread its shadow over half
the earth.

We threw out sand and mounted above it. Then it arose toward us again. It seemed as though
we could reach our hands into its surging depths. Over went seats, baskets, the tent--everything
we could spare, and I'm not sure the Professor didn't glare at one of his companions with malicious
and deadly intent.

The truth rushed upon us that we were racing with a storm.

It was of vital importance to keep in the sun, for the moment the shadows below could place
their chilly spell upon our steed, the gas would chill and condense, and we would drop! drop!
swiftly to the earth. At last it came, and we knew it was inevitable. Below us we could hear
the crashing of thunder reverberating away into the depths of the black storm masses, and the
lightnings every moment lit the weird scene with a grandeur but few mortals have ever witnessed.
For a brief moment we hung suspended like Mahomet's coffin in the centre of a great cave of
pearl. Shall I ever forget that glimpse of heavenly splendor? A single shaft of sunlight broke
through its walls and then died like the last ray of hope. Then downward we rushed! A mile
nearer earth within the first minute! As the air grew denser we fell more gradually. Our long
drag-rope was out, weighing perhaps three hundred pounds. Now we were closely enshrouded by
leaden clouds. The rain ran down the bag in rivulets and trickled upon our heads.

"Look, oh look!" cried the Professor.

We were now below the storm, and along its dense ceiling could see its broad extent. We were
above the mountains. No towns nor even houses could be discovered, only dense forests, through
which the gale howled as among the rigging of a ship upon a winter sea.

Very quickly our drag-rope touched the tree-tops and began to glide among the swaying pines.

"Hold on at life-ropes!" shouted the Professor, knife in hand.

In another instant the basket gave a dreadful surge; a mass of pine boughs swept about our
heads, followed by a strong jerk. The Professor had cut the cord which bound the anchor coil.
The anchor had dropped and caught among the limbs. We were safe! No! not yet.

The line must be shortened so we could clear the tree-tops. All three tugged at the rope. Then
other lashings were made while the great aerostat plunged about like a wounded leviathan. We
were eighty feet from the ground. Two of us found it convenient to go down the drag-rope, but
the poor Professor, tall and heavy, preferred to try the tree. This was wet and slippery, as
well as full of projecting points of broken branches. About twenty feet from the ground the
Professor's clothes caught. He was in a great dilemma.

Amid a good deal of laughter we managed to liberate him, and as he reached the ground he exclaimed:
"Well, of all the scrapes I was ever in, this is about the meanest!"

But help came even here. Far down the slope we heard a shout, which you may be sure was quickly
answered. Then, after a while, the bushes parted and a half-score of woodsmen carrying gleaming
axes ran to our aid. They were all thoroughly wet, like ourselves.

"What can we do for you?" they asked.

"Cut down half a dozen of these pines. I want to save the balloon," answered the aeronaut.

Then you should have seen the chips fly! Down came the trees, one after the other, and finally
the one to which our steed was lashed. The gas soon escaped through great holes torn by the
limbs, and our gallant craft was robbed of its power. Standing upon one of the fallen trees
I made the sketch you see before you.

We found upon inquiring that we had landed in Potter county, Pennsylvania; and consulting our
watches, found we had travelled one hundred and twenty-five miles in about two hours.

We were made comfortable at a lumberman's cabin,

and managed to get out of the woods in a couple of days where we could telegraph to our friends.

It cannot be denied that after the excitement had passed we felt very much like an old farmer
who listened to our adventures. He said:

"Mebbe some folks prefer to travel in a flying Beelzebub, but I'm willin' to git along in a
buck-board with a good road to put my feet agin when I git off."

You'll say, now, "I guess that race was enough for you!" But you're wrong; for I've had several
trips since; and now you've a perfect right to retort, "Well! you are a bigger balloonatic
than I took you for."

Perhaps you're right.

AUGUST'S "'SPERIMENT."

August was rather a troublesome boy. Generous and jolly,--his playmates called him a firstrate
good fellow, but older people complained that he was curious, meddlesome, and always "cluttering
round."

But here is mamma's opinion:

"August was born to be busy. He is inventive too. He asks questions to gain information, and
he handles things to see how they are made."

"What is he tinkering at now, mamma?" asked Tom. "He has got hold of an old, old book, full
of f ss, and all yellow; he's rigged two pans in a barrel, and bought a naptha lamp, and locked
us all out of the attic."

"And he just came in with a covered basket, mamma," said Katie, "carrying it ever so carefully.
I was jumping rope in the hall, and he asked me not to joggle. What do you suppose he was doing,
mamma?"

"Suppose we wait till he tells us," said mamma, smiling.

"He's only trying some of his 'speriments," said wise little Robbie, aged five.

After the children went out, mamma took up her work and sat down by the window, watching the
three outside, and waiting for her oldest boy, August, who presently came to take her into
his confidence.

"Mamma, I am trying an experiment."

"And is that something new, August?" with an encouraging smile.

"But the kind is new, mamma. Did you ever hear of Réaumur?"

"Who wrote that curious old book on the art of hatching fowls by artificial incubation? Yes,
August."

"Then will you come and see, mamma, what I have begun to do?"

He led the way, two steps at a time, to the attic. When they reached the door, August drew
from his pocket a key, and unlocked it and led his mother in.

A flour-barrel stood in the centre of the floor, closely covered. August removed the cover,
and lifted up a piece of carpet. His mother looked in.

Within the barrel was suspended a large, deep pan, resting on three iron cleats. This pan was
partly filled with hot water, and floating on the water was another pan--a shallow one--which
contained a layer of sand an inch deep. Over this was spread a piece of linen cloth, and in
the cloth thirty-six large Brahma eggs lay closely packed. In the center stood a neat thermometer.

"You have made your arrangements very neatly, August," said mamma. "Of course I do not understand
them exactly."

"Well, you see, mamma, this shallow pan gets its heat from the water beneath it. I put that
in hot, and keep it just right with this lamp."

Saying which, he knelt in front of the barrel, and opened a neat little door, fitted with a
brass knob and hinges.

Stooping down and looking in, his mother saw on a tall flower-pot, which stood upside down,
a naptha safety-lamp sending forth a small, steady flame.

"That keeps the temperature about equable;" said August, "but I have another lamp, larger than
this, to use in case my incubator grows too cool."

"When did you set them?" asked mamma.

"This morning."

"To-day is the first of March: then if no accident happens, and the eggs are good, you expect
them to hatch on the twenty-first?"

"Yes, mamma, and the eggs are all right because I told Grandma I wanted some very fresh, and
she saved them for me."

"Did Grandma know of your experiment?"

"Oh! no, mamma. Not a soul but you knows about it; and I want you to keep the secret until
we know how it will turn out."

"Very well!" said mamma; "but if you lock the door you had better leave the key with me in
case anything should happen. I will look at your incubator occasionally while you are at school."

August gave his mother a grateful look--he felt so encouraged by her sympathy.

"How warm do you keep the eggs?" she asked as he carefully replaced the carpet and cover.

"Réaumur says at 32°, that is about 103 1-2 Fahrenheit.[A]"

"Must the eggs be kept at that temperature all the time?"

"No, only through the first week. The second it is a little less and the third still less."

"There is the luncheon-bell, dear; we must go down or the children will be trooping up here.
I hope, my boy, that you will succeed."

"If I don't I shall try again," said August. Then, taking a final look to see that the thermometer
and lamp were all right, he locked the room and they went down.

He paid several visits to the attic during the day and evening, finding on each occasion that
all worked well and steadily. Before going to bed he refilled the lamp, so the supply of naptha
shouldn't be exhausted; then he went to sleep and dreamed all night of eggs and chickens.

In the morning he was up and at his incubator before any one else was stirring. The thermometer
indicated that the eggs were a trifle cool, so he turned up the wick of the lamp. Before going
to church he turned the eggs. This he did twice daily, being careful not to jar them. The incubator
worked well all day and all night.

The next day was Monday and he had his school duties to attend to. He left everything in good
order, took the attic key to his mother, and went off to school full of confidence.

Alas! When mamma went up at ten o'clock, she could scarcely see across the room. Everything
was black with soot. The naptha lamp was smoking fiercely.

The first thing was to get the window open, and put out the lamp. Then mamma looked at the
eggs. Alas, again! There they lay covered with fine black soot. She took up one and tried to
wipe it, but succeeded only in making a smirch which she could not wipe off. She knew then
that the eggs were spoiled.

In the midst of it all August came in from school having been dismissed early. Poor August!
He could scarcely keep the tears back.

"Well, August," said his mamma very practically, "I don't think a naptha lamp just the thing.
They are very apt to smoke, and they are very inflammable."

"Yes," said August, trying to be cheerful. "Failure the first! I shall try it again. Grandma
will give me some more eggs. I've only lost three days."

"And I will go to town this afternoon," said his mother, "and see if I cannot find a lamp which
will be more reliable."

There was no school that afternoon, so August cleaned the room, and supplied the incubator
with fresh eggs, greatly encouraged by his mother's sympathy and interest.

The other children were curious enough to know what was going on in the attic; but they could
get no information.

Toward evening Mrs. Grant returned from town, bringing for her little boy a large tin lamp
which would burn kerosene. He lighted it and adjusted the wick to just the right height. Then
it was placed within the barrel to warm the second setting of eggs.

Day after day August and his mother watched and tended them. Everything progressed finely.

On the next Monday the eggs, having been in the incubator a week, were far enough advanced
to be tested. At a south window there hung a heavy green Holland curtain. In this mamma allowed
August to cut a hole, a little smaller than an egg, and she herself staid to assist him.

When all was ready, she handed August the eggs one by one. One by one he held them to the aperture.
The first seemed quite transparent. In vain August turned and turned it--there was nothing
to be seen but the yolk floating at the top. With a sigh he laid that aside and took up another.

"O, mamma, look!" he cried excitedly.

Mrs. Grant examined it with great interest. Not only could she distinctly see the dark form
of a little chick, particularly the head with its immense eye, but bright blood-veins were
also plainly defined, branching out in all directions from the body. Another and still another
of the eggs looked like this one. August was greatly excited.

"They are lively enough!" he said. "See, mamma, this one moves, and this!"

Then came one that was dark and shaky. "Addled," pronounced August. After this a number more
appeared as promising as the former ones.

Finally all were tested. They were pleased enough with the result. Three were clear--that meant
there were no chickens within the shells; one was addled; and thirty-two contained live chicks.

August was so wild over this discovery that his hands grew unsteady, and he unfortunately dropped
two of the eggs and broke them. This left him but thirty likely to hatch; but these were all
very promising.

"I am sure we will succeed now, mamma," cried August gaily.

"It looks like it, certainly," said mamma.

But alas for poor August's bright hopes! and alas for the expected chickens! Whether August
was too confident and grew careless, or whether it was one of those unforeseen accidents that
will happen, will never be known; but this is certain, that the next morning when August went,
later than usual, to look at his incubator, he found the thermometer had gone up to 110 and
must have been at that temperature some time, for in egg after egg, which he opened in despair,
was a poor little dead chick.

Even if a boy is fourteen years old, he cannot help crying sometimes over a great disappointment.

Poor August put out his lamp with sorrowful breath and some of his tears fell upon the hot
chimney which hissed as if in mockery.

Then he locked himself in his own room, threw himself on the bed, refused his breakfast and
gave way to his grief.

Tom, Katie and Robbie all tried to get at him, but without avail. Katie coaxed with loving
words. Robbie murmured, "Poor Gussie!" Tom said "Never mind, old fellow, if your 'speriment
has failed. Come and play ball."

August's reply was not very polite.

"My experiment hasn't failed, and that is all you know about it, Tom!"

But the word "fail" seemed to rouse him, to restore his courage; for presently unlocking the
door and coming out, he said quietly to himself, "I shall just go down to Grandma's for some
more eggs--that's what I shall do!"

Grandma was curious to know what he did with so many eggs; but she asked no questions. She
had great respect for August and his 'speriments.

She only said, "This makes one hundred and eight eggs, child. Now, if I had set all these,
and if they had all hatched, what a lot of little chickens I would have had!"

"Ah!" thought August. "If!--" And he drew a long sigh.

Mamma, meanwhile, had been up to the attic to look at the incubator, knowing nothing of what
had happened. Great was her amazement to find the lamp out, a basin full of broken eggs and
little dead chicks, and the incubator itself deserted and empty.

"Why, August!" she cried, as she met him in the door with a basket of fresh eggs. "What has
happened, dear child?"

"Only failure number two;" he answered, trying to speak cheerfully, though even yet the tears
lay high. "They got too hot in the night, mamma."

"Yet you are not quite discouraged?" said mamma.

August held out his basket with a smile.

So once more the incubator was set.

"We must take more pains this time," said mamma.

"Yes'm," answered August, "I'll try not to let any thing happen to these."

Things did work more smoothly this time. The temperature was kept about right, the eggs were
tested successfully and without accident.

One week, two weeks, two weeks and a half, and then things happened again, things which came
near being serious enough. It was Saturday afternoon. August was going with the other children
to a circus. He had turned the eggs carefully and sprinkled them lightly with warm water. He
had admitted the children into his secret, and they were all in the room waiting for him.

"These eggs are a little cool," said August, putting one up to his cheek. "I must leave them
just right, I think I will fill the lamp and turn it up a little. Tommy, will you take the
lamp out?"

Down on his knees Tommy went, and drew out the lamp which he set on the floor. Then, kneeling
still above it, he blew hard, directly down the chimney.

"PUFF! BANG! Crack!" went something, causing August, Katie and Robbie to start violently, while
poor Tommy, with his hands to his eyes, rolled over on the floor with a groan.

"Mamma, oh! mamma!" screamed Katie, "the lamp is 'sploded!"

"And Tommy's killed!" shrieked Robbie.

Mamma flew up the stairs and to Tommy.

"Oh! his eyes!" she cried. "Quick, August, water!"

"Oh! my poor Tommy!" sobbed little Robbie. "See him all b'eedin', b'eedin'!"

August came running with the water, and knelt down and held the basin while Katie flew for
a sponge and soft linen.

When the blood was washed off, and his smarting eyes had been bathed with fresh, cool water,
Tommy discovered that he had been more frightened than hurt; and mamma and the rest were greatly
relieved to find his worst wound, a slight cut between the eyes, could be cured by court-plaster.

It was a great wonder, however, that more harm had not been done; for when the child blew so
forcibly down the chimney, the wick shot up out of the lamp and the chimney shivered in pieces;
one of the pieces had struck his face, making the cut, while the hot air and smoke flashing
into his eyes caused them to smart fiercely. August had neglected to fill the lamp at the proper
time, and the oil had burned nearly out. It was the sudden forcing of air down the tube which
caused the explosion.

"I thought you said 'twas a safety lamp!" said Katie indignantly.

"'Tisn't half so good as our un-safety ones;" declared Robbie.

"It's never safe to blow directly down upon a full flame in any lamp," said mamma. "The wick
should always be turned down first and the flame gently blown."

"Accident the third;" said August ruefully. "Mamma, do you feel like trusting me any farther?"

His mother smiled. "The usual experience of inventors, my son."

Sunday passed quietly. Monday with its school duties was well over. Tuesday morning--"Three
weeks to-day!" said August, and half fearfully opened his incubator.

"Peep! Peep! Peep!"

The lad trembled with excitement, and a flush of joy spread over his face. He could hardly
believe his ears. "One, two, three," he hurriedly counted, "four, five, six." On he counted,
up to twenty eggs chipped or cracked. One chicken was half out of its shell, and one, quite
independent, was scrambling over the rest of the eggs.

August held his breath and looked at them as long as he dared to keep the incubator open. Then
softly closing the lid, he rushed down stairs.

"Hurrah! Hurrah!" he shouted at the door of his mother's room. "They're hatching, mamma! They're
hatching!"

"Are they, really?" asked mamma, pleased enough, and she hurried up the stairs, closely followed
by the children, whom August's joyful cry had aroused from their sleep. In great excitement
they clustered around the barrel.

"Oh! what a cunning, fluffy one!" cried little Katie, as she spied the oldest chick.

"But what is the matter with that other one?" asked Tommy.

"He has just left the shell and is not dry yet," August explained. "As soon as he is dry he
will be downy like the other."

"Hear em say 'peep! peep!'" cried little Robbie, grasping the edge of the barrel with both
hands, and stretching his short legs to their utmost extent in order to get his eyes high enough
to look over the edge.

"What lots are cracked!" said Tommy. "Oh! August, here is one cracked all round."

"Yes," said August, "that chick will soon be out." Even as he spoke the shell parted, and a
third little bright-eyed chicken struggled out and looked about in amazement.

The children could have watched them much longer with great interest, but mamma was afraid
the incubator would get too cool, and she advised August to cover it.

"How do they do it, mamma?" asked Katie.

"The little chick is packed very wonderfully in his shell," said mamma. "His head under his
wing, legs folded up with the feet toward the head, his bill coming out from under one wing.
This bill is furnished with a little hard point on the top. When he is ready to crack the shell
and come out, he begins to move. He turns his whole body slowly round, cracking the shell as
he goes, by pressing with his whole force against it, the hard, sharp point on the top of his
bill coming next the shell. When he is a few days old this hard point drops off. Just before
he hatches, after the egg is cracked all around, he frees his head from his wing and struggles
to stretch himself. Then the shell parts and he gets his head out, and presently his legs,
one after the other. I forgot to say that just before hatching he gradually absorbs the yolk
of the egg into his body, and that nourishes him for twenty-four hours after hatching."

"It's very curious, isn't it?" said Tommy.

"I didn't know anything but hens or ducks could hatch eggs," said Katie.

"Why, Katie!" exclaimed August, "there is a place at Canton, in China, where thousands of ducks'
eggs are hatched artificially every day. There are twenty-eight rooms to the establishment,
and all along the sides of these rooms are rows of sliding trays filled with eggs. These eggs
are put in the first room the first day; on the second day they are moved to the second room;
and so on, until they hatch in the last room. The heat is graduated, the last rooms being cooler
than the first. All these eggs are hatched by the heat of the rooms."

"If they hatch thousands every day," asked Tommy, "what do they do with the little ducks?"

"They hatch them for the people in the neighboring towns," replied August. "The Chinese are
very fond of ducks and ducks' eggs. A gentleman who has been to Canton, and seen the hatching-rooms,
told me he had seen people take eggs there to be hatched. They would pay for the hatching and
then one of the men in charge of the rooms would count their eggs, and give them just as many
little ducklings."

"I guess they don't have accidents there, then," said Katie.

"I won't have accidents always," August replied.

