When the riot started in 1922 (I think it was), I had a place on the corner of Pine and Owasso
Streets. Two hundred of my people gathered at my place, because I was so well known everybody
figured we wouldn't be molested. I was wrong. Two of my horses was shot and killed. Two of
my boys, Salomon and Nelson, was wounded, one in the hip, the other in the shoulder. They wasn't
bad and got well alright. Some of my people wasn't so lucky. The dead wagon hauled them away!

White men came into the negro district and gathered up the homeless. The houses were most all
burned. No place to go except to the camps where armed whites kept everybody quiet. They took
my clothes and all my money--$298.00--and the police couldn't do nothing about my loss when
I reported it to them.

That was a terrible time, but we people are better off today that any time during the days
of slavery. We have some privileges and they are worth more than all the money in the world!

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

PHYLLIS PETITE Age 83 yrs. Fort Gibson, Okla.

I was born in Rusk County, Texas, on a plantation about eight miles east of Belleview. There
wasn't no town where I was born, but they had a church.

My mammy and pappy belonged to a part Cherokee named W. P. Thompson when I was born. He had
kinfolks in the Cherokee Nation, and we all moved up here to a place on Fourteen-Mile Creek
close to where Hulbert now is, 'way before I was big enough to remember anything. Then, so
I been told, old master Thompson sell my pappy and mammy and one of my baby brothers and me
back to one of his neighbors in Texas name of John Harnage.

Mammy's name was Letitia Thompson and pappy's was Riley Thompson. My little brother was named
Johnson Thompson, but I had another brother sold to a Vann and he always call hisself Harry
Vann. His Cherokee master lived on the Arkansas river close to Webber's Falls and I never did
know him until we was both grown. My only sister was Patsy and she was borned after slavery
and died at Wagoner, Oklahoma.

I can just remember when Master John Harnage took us to Texas. We went in a covered wagon with
oxen and camped out all along the way. Mammy done the cooking in big wash kettles and pappy
done the driving of the oxen. I would set in a wagon and listen to him pop his whip and holler.

Master John took us to his plantation and it was a big one, too. You could look from the field
up to the Big House and any grown body in the yard look like a little body, it was so far away.

We negroes lived in quarters not far from the Big House and ours was a single log house with
a stick and dirt chimney. We cooked over the hot coals in the fireplace.

I just played around until I was about six years old I reckon, and then they put me up at the
Big House with my mammy to work. She done all the cording and spinning and weaving, and I done
a whole lot of sweeping and minding the baby. The baby was only about six months old I reckon.
I used to stand by the cradle and rock it all day, and when I quit I would go to sleep right
by the cradle sometimes before mammy would come and get me.

The Big House had great big rooms in front, and they was fixed up nice, too. I remember when
old Mistress Harnage tried me out sweeping up the front rooms. They had two or three great
big pictures of some old people hanging on the wall. They was full blood Indians it look like,
and I was sure scared of them pictures! I would go here and there and every which-a-way, and
anywheres I go them big pictures always looking straight at me and watching me sweep! I kept
my eyes right on them so I could run if they moved, and old Mistress take me back to the kitchen
and say I can't sweep because I miss all the dirt.

We always have good eating, like turnip greens cooked in a kettle with hog skins and crackling
grease, and skinned corn, and rabbit or possum stew. I liked big fish tolerable well too, but
I was afraid of the bones in the little ones.

That skinned corn aint like the boiled hominy we have today. To make it you boil some wood
ashes, or have some drip lye from the hopper to put in the hot water. Let the corn boil in
the lye water until the skin drops off and the eyes drop out and then wash that corn in fresh
water about a dozen times, or just keep carrying water from the spring until you are wore out,
like I did. Then you put the corn in a crock and set it in the spring, and you got good skinned
corn as long as it last, all ready to warm up a little batch at a time.

Master had a big, long log kitchen setting away from the house, and we set a big table for
the family first, and when they was gone we negroes at the house eat at that table too, but
we don't use the china dishes.

The negro cook was Tilda Chisholm. She and my mammy didn't do no out-work. Aunt Tilda sure
could make them corn-dodgers. Us children would catch her eating her dinner first out of the
kettles and when we say something she say: "Go on child, I jest tasting that dinner."

In the summer we had cotton homespun clothes, and in winter it had wool mixed in. They was
dyed with copperas and wild indigo.

My brother, Johnson Thompson, would get up behind old Master Harnage on his horse and go with
him to hunt squirrels so they would go 'round on Master's side so's he could shoot them. Master's
old mare was named "Old Willow", and she knowed when to stop and stand real still so he could
shoot.

His children was just all over the place! He had two houses full of them! I only remember Bell,
Ida, Maley, Mary and Will, but they was plenty more I don't remember.

That old horn blowed 'way before daylight, and all the field negroes had to be out in the row
by the time of sun up. House negroes got up too, because old Master always up to see everybody
get out to work.

Old Master Harnage bought and sold slaves most all the time, and some of the new negroes always
acted up and needed a licking. The worst ones got beat up good, too! They didn't have no jail
to put slaves in because when the Masters got done licking them they didn't need no jail.

My husband was George Petite. He tell me his mammy was sold away from him when he was a little
boy. He looked down a long lane after her just as long as he could see her, and cried after
her. He went down to the big road and set down by his mammy's barefooted tracks in the sand
and set there until it got dark, and then he come on back to the quarters.

I just saw one slave try to get away right in hand. They caught him with bloodhounds and brung
him back in. The hounds had nearly tore him up, and he was sick a long time. I don't remember
his name, but he wasn't one of the old regular negroes.

In Texas we had a church where we could go. I think it was a white church and they just let
the negroes have it when they got a preacher sometimes. My mammy took me sometimes, and she
loved to sing them salvation songs.

We used to carry news from one plantation to the other I reckon, 'cause mammy would tell about
things going on some other plantation and I know she never been there.

Christmas morning we always got some brown sugar candy or some molasses to pull, and we children
was up bright and early to get that 'lasses pull, I tell you! And in the winter we played skeeting
on the ice when the water froze over. No, I don't mean skating. That's when you got iron skates,
and we didn't have them things. We just get a running start and jump on the ice and skeet as
far as we could go, and then run some more.

I nearly busted my head open, and brother Johnson said: "Try it again," but after that I was
scared to skeet any more.

Mammy say we was down in Texas to get away from the War, but I didn't see any war and any soldiers.
But one day old Master stay after he eat breakfast and when us negroes come in to eat he say:
"After today I ain't your master any more. You all as free as I am." We just stand and look
and don't know what to say about it.

After while pappy got a wagon and some oxen to drive for a white man who was coming to the
Cherokee Nation because he had folks here. His name was Dave Mounts and he had a boy named John.

We come with them and stopped at Fort Gibson where my own grand mammy was cooking for the soldiers
at the garrison. Her name was Phyllis Brewer and I was named after her. She had a good Cherokee
master. My mammy was born on his place.

We stayed with her about a week and then we moved out on Four Mile Creek to live. She died
on Fourteen-Mile Creek about a year later.

When we first went to Four Mile Creek I seen negro women chopping wood and asked them who they
work for and I found out they didn't know they was free yet.

After a while my pappy and mammy both died, and I was took care of by my aunt Elsie Vann. She
took my brother Johnson too, but I don't know who took Harry Vann.

I was married to George Petite, and I had on a white underdress and black high-top shoes, and
a large cream colored hat, and on top of all I had a blue wool dress with tassels all around
the bottom of it. That dress was for me to eat the terrible supper in. That what we called
the wedding supper because we eat too much of it. Just danced all night, too! I was at Mandy
Foster's house in Fort Gibson, and the preacher was Reverend Barrows, I had that dress a long
time, but its gone now. I still got the little sun bonnet I wore to church in Texas.

We had six children, but all are dead but George, Tish, and Annie now.

Yes, they tell me Abraham Lincoln set me free, and I love to look at his picture on the wall
in the school house at Four Mile branch where they have church. My grand mammy kind of help
start that church, and I think everybody ought to belong to some church.

I want to say again my Master Harnage was Indian, but he was a good man and mighty good to
us slaves, and you can see I am more than six feet high, and they say I weighs over a hundred
and sixty, even if my hair is snow white.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MATILDA POE Age 80 yrs. McAlester, Okla.

I was born in Indian Territory on de plantation of Isaac Love. He was old Master, and Henry
Love was young Master. Isaac Love was a full blood Chickasaw Indian but his wife was a white woman.

Old Master was sure good to his slaves. The young niggers never done no heavy work till dey
was fully grown. Dey would carry water to de men in de field and do other light jobs 'round
de place.

De Big House set way back from de road 'bout a quarter of a mile. It was a two-story log house,
and the rooms was awful big and they was purty furniture in it. The furniture in de parlor
was red plush and I loved to slip in and rub my hand over it, it was so soft like. The house
was made of square logs and de cracks was filled out even with the edges of de logs. It was
white washed and my but it was purty. They was a long gallery clean across de front of de house
and big posts to support de roof. Back a ways from de house was de kitchen and nearby was de
smokehouse. Old Master kept it well filled with meat, lard and molasses all de time. He seen
to it that we always had plenty to eat. The old women done all de cooking in big iron pots
that hung over the fire. De slaves was all served together.

The slave quarters was about two hundred yards back of de Big House. Our furniture was made
of oak 'cepting de chairs, and dey was made out of hackberry. I still have a chair dat belonged
to my mammy.

The boys didn't wear no britches in de summer time. Dey just wore long shirts. De girls wore
homespun dresses, either blue or gray.

Old Master never hired no overseer for his slaves, but he looked after 'em hisself. He punished
dem hisself too. He had to go away one time and he hired a white man to oversee while he was
gone. The only orders he left was to keep dem busy. Granny Lucy was awful old but he made her
go to the field. She couldn't hold out to work so he ups and whips her. He beat her scandalous.
He cut her back so bad she couldn't wear her dress. Old Master come home and my, he was mad
when he see Granny Lucy. He told de man to leave and iffen he ever set foot on his ground again
he's shoot him, sure!

Old Master had a big plantation and a hundred or more slaves. Dey always got up at daylight
and de men went out and fed de horses. When de bell rang dey was ready to eat. After breakfast
dey took de teams and went out to plow. Dey come in 'bout half past 'leven and at twelve de
bell rung agin. Dey eat their dinner and back to plowing dey went. 'Bout five o'clock dey come
in again, and den they'd talk, sing and jig dance till bedtime.

Old Master never punished his niggers 'cepting dey was sassy or lazy. He never sold his slaves
neither. A owner once sold several babies to traders. Dey stopped at our plantation to stay
awhile. My mammy and de other women had to take care of dem babies for two days, and teach
dem to nuss a bottle or drink from a glass. Dat was awful, dem little children crying for they
mothers. Sometimes dey sold de mothers away from they husbands and children.

Master wasn't a believer in church but he let us have church. My we'd have happy times singing
an shouting. They'd have church when dey had a preacher and prayer meeting when dey didn't.

Slaves didn't leave de plantation much on 'count of de Patrollers. De patroller was low white
trash what jest wanted a excuse to shoot niggers. I don't think I ever saw one but I heard
lots of 'em.

I don't believe in luck charms and things of the such. Iffen you is in trouble, there ain't
nothing gonna save you but de Good Lawd. I heard of folks keeping all kind of things for good
luck charms. When I was a child different people gave me buttons to string and we called them
our charm string and wore 'em round our necks. If we was mean dey would tell us "Old Raw Head
and Bloody Bones" would git us. Grand mammy told us ghost stories after supper, but I don't
remember any of dem.

I never did know I was a slave, 'cause I couldn't tell I wasn't free. I always had a good time,
didn't have to work much, and allus had something to eat and wear and that was better than
it is with me now.

When de War was over old Master told us we was free. Mammy she say, "Well, I'm heading for
Texas." I went out and old Master ask me to bring him a coal of fire to light his pipe. I went
after it and mammy left pretty soon. My pappy wouldn't leave old Master right then but old
Master told us we was free to go where we pleased, so me an' pappy left and went to Texas where
my mammy was. We never saw old Master any more. We stayed a while in Texas and then come back
to de Indian Territory.

Abe Lincoln was a good man, everybody liked him. See, I've got his picture. Jeff Davis was
a good man too, he just made a mistake. I like Mr. Roosevelt, too.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

HENRY F. PYLES Age 81 yrs. Tulsa, Okla.

    Little pinch o' pepper----
    Little bunch o' wool----

    Mumbledy--Mumbledy----

    Two, three Pammy Christy beans----
    Little piece o' rusty iron----

    Mumbledy--Mumbledy----

    Wrop it in a rag and tie it wid hair,
    Two fum a hoss an' one fum a mare----

    Mumbledy, Mumbledy, Mumbledy----

    Wet it in whiskey
    Boughten wid silver;
    Dat make you wash so hard your sweat pop out,
    And he come to pass, sho'!

That's how the niggers say old Bab Russ used to make the hoodoo "hands" he made for the young
bucks and wenches, but I don't know, 'cause I was too trusting to look inside de one he make
for me, and anyways I lose it, and it no good nohow!

Old Bab Russ live about two mile from me, and I went to him one night at midnight and ask him
to make me de hand. I was a young strapper about sixteen years old, and thinking about wenches
pretty hard and wanting something to help me out wid the one I liked best.

Old Bab Russ charge me four bits for dat hand, and I had to give four bits more for a pint
of whiskey to wet it wid, and it wasn't no good nohow!

Course dat was five-six years after de War. I wasn't yet quite eleven when de War close. Most
all the niggers was farming on de shares and whole lots of them was still working for their
old Master yet. Old Bab come in there from deep South Carolina two-three years befo', and live
all by hisself. De gal I was worrying about had come wid her old pappy and mammy to pick cotton
on de place, and dey was staying in one of de cabins in the "settlement", but dey didn't live
there all de time.

I don't know whether I believed in conjure much or not in dem days, but anyways I tried it
that once and it stirred up sech a rumpus everybody called me "Hand" after that until after
I was married and had a pack of children.

Old Bab Russ was coal black, and he could talk African or some other unknown tongue, and all
the young bucks and wenches was mortal 'fraid of him!

Well sir, I took dat hand he made for me and set out to try it on dat gal. She never had give
me a friendly look even, and when I would speak to her polite she just hang her head and say
nothing!

We was all picking cotton, and I come along up behind her and decided to use my "Hand." I had
bought me a pint of whiskey to wet the hand wid, but I was scared to take out of my pocket
and let the other niggers see it, so I jest set down in de cotton row and taken a big mouthful.
I figgered to hold it in my mouth until I catched up wid that gal and then blow it on the hand
jest before I tech her on the arm and speak to her.

Well, I take me a big mouthful, but it was so hot and scaldy it jest slip right on down my
throat! Then I had to take another, and when I was gitting up I kind of stumbled and it slip
down, too!

Then I see all the others get way on ahead, and I took another big mouthful--the last in the
bottle--and drap the bottle under a big stalk and start picking fast and holding the whiskey
in my mouth this time. I missed about half the cotton I guess, but at last I catch up with
de rest and git close up behind dat purty gal. Then I started to speak to her, but forgot I
had de whiskey in mouth and I lost most of it down my neck and all over my chin, and then I
strangled a little on the rest, so as when I went to squirt it on de "hand" I didn't have nothing
left to squirt but a little spit.

That make me a little nervous right then, but anyways I step up behind dat gal and lay my hand
on her arm and speak polite and start to say something, but I finish up what I start to say
laying on my neck with my nose shoved up under a cotton stalk about four rows away!

De way that gal lam me across the head was a caution! We was in new ground, and she jest pick
up a piece of old root and whopped me right in de neck with it!

That raise sech a laugh on me that I never say nothing to her for three-four days, but after
while I gets myself wound up to go see her at her home. I didn't know how she going to act,
but I jest took my foot in my hand and went on over.

Her old pappy and mammy was asleep in the back of the room on a pallet, and we set in front
of the fireplace on our hunches and jest looked at the fire and punched it up a little. It
wasn't cold, but de malary fog was thick all through de bottoms.

After while I could smell the whiskey soaked up in dat "hand" I had in my pocket, and I was
scared she could smell it too. So I jest reached in my pocket and teched it for luck, then
I reached over and teched her arm. She jerked it back so quick she knocked over the churn and
spilled buttermilk all over de floor! Dat make de old folks mad, and dey grumble and holler
and told de gal, "Send dat black rapscallion on out of here!" But I didn't go.

I kept on moving over closer and she kept on backing away, but after while I reach over and
put my hand on her knee. All I was going to do was say something but I shore forgot what it
was the next minnit, 'cause she jest whinnied lak a scared hoss and give me a big push. I was
settin straddledy-legged on the floor, and that push sent me on my head in the hot ashes in
the fur corner of the chimney.

Then the old man jump up and make for me and I make for the door! It was dark, all 'cepting
the light from the chimney, and I fumble all up and down the door jamb before I find de latch
pin. The old man shorely git me if he hadn't stumble over the eating table and whop his hand
right down in de dish of fresh made butter. That make him so mad he jest stand and holler and cuss.

I git de pin loose and jerk de door open so quick and hard I knock de powder gourd down what
was hanging over it, and my feet git caught in the string. The stopper gits knocked out, and
when I untangle it from my feet and throw it back in de house it fall in the fireplace.

I was running all de time, but I hear dat gourd go "Blammity Blam!" and then all de yelling,
but I didn't go back to see how dey git the hot coals all put out what was scattered all over
de cabin!

I done drap dat "hand" and I never did see it again. Never did see the gal but two-three times
after that, and we never mention about dat night. Her old pappy was too old to work, so I never
did see him neither, but she must of told about it because all the young bucks called me "Hand"
after that for a long time.

Old Bab kept on trying to work his conjure with the old niggers, but the young ones didn't
pay him much mind cause they was hearing about the Gospel and de Lord Jesus Christ. We was
all free then, and we could go and come without a pass, and they was always some kind of church
meeting going on close enough to go to. Our niggers never did hear about de Lord Jesus until
after we was free, but lots of niggers on de other plantations had masters that told them all
about him, and some of dem niggers was pretty good at preaching. Then de good church people
in de North was sending white preachers amongst us all the time too. Most of de young niggers
was Christians by that time.

One day old Bab was hoeing in a field and got in a squabble about something with a young gal
name Polly, same name as his wife. After while he git so mad he reach up with his fingers and
wet them on his tongue and point straight up and say, "Now you got a trick on you! Dere's a
heavy trick on you now! Iffen you don't change your mind you going pass on before de sun go down!"

All de young niggers looked like they want to giggle but afraid to, and the old ones start
begging old Bab to take the trick off, but that Polly git her dander up and take in after him
with a hoe!

She knocked him down, and he jest laid there kicking his feet in the air and trying to keep
her from hitting him in the head!

Well, that kind of broke up Bab's charm, so he set out to be a preacher. The Northern whites
was paying some of the Negro preachers, so he tried to be one too. He didn't know nothing about
de Bible but to shout loud, so the preacher board at Red Mound never would give him a paper
to preach. Then he had to go back to tricking and trancing again.

One day he come in at dinner and told his wife to git him something to eat. She told him they
aint nothing but some buttermilk, and he says give me some of that. He hollered around till
she fix him a big ash cake and he ate that and she made him another and he ate that. Then he
drunk the rest of de gallon of buttermilk and went out and laid down on a tobacco scaffold
in de yard and nearly died.

After while he jest stiffened out and looked like he was dead, and nobody couldn't wake him
up. 'Bout forty niggers gathered round and tried but it done no good. Old mammy Polly got scared
and sent after the white judge, old Squire Wilson, and he tried, and then the white preacher
Reverend Dennison tried and old man Gorman tried. He was a infidel, but that didn't do no good.

By that time it was getting dark, and every nigger in a square mile was there, looking on and
acting scared. Me and my partner who was a little bit cripple but mighty smart come up to see
what all the rumpus was about, and we was jest the age to do anything.

He whispered to me to let him start it off and then me finish it while he got a head running
start. I ast him what he talking about.

Then he fooled round the house and got a little ball of cotton and soaked it in kerosene from
a lamp. It was a brass lamp with a hole and a stopper in the side of the bowl. Wonder he didn't
burn his fool head off! Then he sidle up close and stuck dat cotton 'tween old Bab's toes.
Old Bab had the biggest feet I ever see, too.

'Bout that time I lit a corn shuck in de lamp and run out in de yard and stuck it to de cotton
and jest kept right on running!

My partner had a big start but I catch up wid him and we lay down in de bresh and listened
to everybody hollering and old Bab hollering louder than anybody. Old Bab moved away after that.

All that foolishness happen after the War, but before de War while I was a little boy they
wasn't much foolishness went on I warrant you.

I was born on de 15th of August in 1856, and belonged to Mister Addison Pyles. He lived in
town, in Jackson, Tennessee, and was a old man when de War broke. He had a nephew named Irvin
T. Pyles he raised from a baby, and Mister Irvin kept a store at de corner of de roads at our
plantation. The plantation covered about 300 or 400 acres I reckon, and they had about 25 slaves
counting de children.

The plantation was about 9 miles north of Red Mound, close to Lexington, Tennessee, and about
a mile and a half from Parker's Crossroads where they had a big battle in de War.

They wasn't no white overseer on the place, except Mister Irvin, and he stayed in de store
or in town and didn't bother about the farm work. We had a Negro overlooker who was my stepdaddy.
His name was Jordan, and he run away wid de Yankees about de middle of de War and was in a
Negro Yankee regiment. After he left we jest worked on as usual because we was afraid not to.
Several of de men got away like that but he was de only one that got in de army.

They was a big house in de middle of de place and a settlement of Negro cabins behind and around
it. We called it de settlement, but on other plantations where white folks lived there too
they called it de quarters. We always kept this big house clean and ready, and sometimes de
white folks come out from town and stay a few days and hunt and fish and look over de crops.

We all worked at farm work. Cotton and corn and tobacco mostly. We all laid off Sunday after
noontime, but we didn't have no church nor preaching and we didn't hear anything 'bout Jesus
much until after de emancipation.

I reckon old Master wasn't very religious, 'cause he never tell us 'bout the Holy Word. He
jest said to behave ourselves and tell him when we wanted to marry, and not have but one wife.

We had little garden patches and cotton patches we could work on Sunday and what de stuff brung
we could sell and keep the money. Old Master let us have what we made that way on Sunday. We
could buy ribbons and hand soap and coal oil and such at de store. Master Irvin was always
honest 'bout continuing de money, too.

We didn't have no carders and spinners nor no weavers on de plantation. They cost too much
money to buy just for 25 niggers, and they cost a lot more than field niggers. So we got our
clothes sent out to us from in town, and sometimes we was give cloth from de store to make
our clothes out of.

We got de shorts and seconds from de mill when we had wheat ground, and so we had good wheat
bread as well as corn pone, and de big smokehouse was on de place and we had all de meat we
wanted to eat. Old Master sent out after de meat he wanted every day or so and we kept him
in garden sass that way too.

We was right between de forks of Big Beaver and Little Beaver and we could go fishing without
getting far off de place. We couldn't go far away without a pass, though, and they wasn't nobody
on the place to write us a pass, so we couldn't go to meeting and dances and sech.

But de niggers on de other plantations could get passes to come to our place, and so we had
parties sometimes there at our place. We always had them on Sundays, 'cause in the evening
we would be too tired to work if we set up, and the other masters wouldn't give passes to their
niggers to come over in de evening.

We had a white doctor lived at de next plantation, and old Master had a contract with old Dr.
Brown to look after us. He had a beard as long as your arm. He come for all kinds of misery
except bornings. Then we had a mid-wife who was a white woman lived down below us. They was
poor people renting or living on war land. Nearly all de white folks in that country been there
a long time and their old people got de land from de government for fighting in the Revolutionary
War. Most all was from North Carolina--way back. I think old Master's pappy was from dere in
de first place.

Old Master had two sons named Newton and Willis. Newton was in de War and was killed, and Willis
went to war later and was sick a long time and come home early. Old Master was too old to go.

There was two daughters, Mary, de oldest, married a Holmes, and Miss Laura never did marry
I don't think.

My mammy's name was Jane, and she was born on de 10th day of May in 1836. I know de dates 'cause
old Master kept his book on all his niggers de same as on his own family. Mammy was the nurse
of all de children but I think old Master sent her to de plantation about the time I was born.
I don't think I had any pappy. I think I was jest one of them things that happened sometimes
in slavery days, but I know old Master didn't have nothing to do with it--I'm too black.

Mammy married a man named Jordan when I was a little baby. He was the overlooker and went off
to de Yankees, when dey come for foraging through dat country de first time.

He served in de Negro regiment in de battle at Fort Piller and a lot of Sesesh was killed in
dat battle, so when de War was over and Jordan come back home he was a changed nigger and all
de whites and a lot of de niggers hated him. All 'cepting old Master, and he never said a word
out of de way to him. Jest told him to come on and work on de place as long as he wanted to.

But Jordan had a hard time, and he brung it on his self I reckon.

'Bout de first thing, he went down to Wildersville Schoolhouse, about a mile from Wildersville,
to a nigger and carpet bagger convention and took me and mammy along. That was de first picnic
and de first brass band I ever see. De band men was all white men and they still had on their
blue soldier clothes.

Lots of de niggers there had been in de Union army too, and they had on parts of their army
clothes. They took them out from under their coats and their wagon seats an put them on for
de picnic.

There was a saloon over in Wildersville, and a lot of them went over there but they was scared
to go in, most of them. But a colored delegate named Taylor and my pappy went in and ordered
a drink. The bartender didn't pay them no mind.

Then a white man named Billy Britt walked up and throwed a glass of whiskey in Jordan's face
and cussed him for being in de Yankee army. Then a white man from the North named Pearson took
up the fight and him and Jordan jumped on Billy Britt, but de crowd stopped them and told pappy
to git on back to whar he come from.

He got elected a delegate at de convention and went on down to Nashville and helped nominate
Brownlow for governor. Then he couldn't come back home for a while, but finally he did.

Old Master was uneasy about de way things was going on, and he come out to de farm and stayed
in de big house a while.

One day in broad daylight he was on de gallery and down de road come 'bout 20 bushwhackers
in Sesesh clothes on horses and rid up to de gate. Old Master knowed all of them, and Captain
Clay Taylor, who had been de master of de nigger delegate, was at the head of them.

They had Jordan Pyles tied with a rope and walked along on de ground betwixt two horses.

"Whar you taking my nigger?", Old Master say. He run down off de gallery and out in de road.

"He ain't your nigger no more--you know that", old Captain Taylor holler back.

"He jest as much my nigger as that Taylor nigger was your nigger, and you ain't laid hands
on him! Now you jest have pity on my nigger!"

"Your nigger Jordan been in de Yankee army, and he was in de battle at Fort Piller and help
kill our white folks, and you know it!" Old Captain Taylor say, and argue on like that, but
old Master jest take hold his bridle and shake his head.

"No, Clay", he say, "that boy maybe didn't kill Confederates, but you and him both know my
two boys killed plenty Yankees, and you forgot I lost one of my boys in de War. Ain't that
enough to pay for letting my nigger alone?"

And old Captain Taylor give the word to turn Jordan loose, and they rid on down de road.

That's one reason my stepdaddy never did leave old Master's place, and I stayed on dere till
I was grown and had children.

The Yankees come through past our place three-four times, and one time they had a big battle
jest a mile and a half away at Parker's Crossroads.

I was in de field hoeing, and I remember I hadn't watered the cows we had hid way down in de
woods, so I started down to water them when I first heard de shooting.

We had de stock hid down in de woods and all de corn and stuff hid too, 'cause the Yankees
and the Sesesh had been riding through quite a lot, and either one take anything they needed
iffen they found it.

First I hear something way off say "Br-r-rump!" Then again, and again. Then something sound
like popcorn beginning to pop real slow. Then it git faster and I start for de settlement and
de big house.

All Master's folks was staying at de big house then, and couldn't git back to town 'count of
de soldiers, so they all put on they good clothes, with de hoop skirts and little sunshades
and the lace pantaloons and got in the buggy to go see de battle!

They rid off and it wasn't long till all the niggers was following behind. We all got to a
hill 'bout a half a mile from the crossroads and stopped when we couldn't see nothing but thick
smoke all over de whole place.

We could see men on horses come in and out of de smoke, going this way and that way, and then
some Yankees on horses broke through de woods right close to us and scattered off down through
de field. One of de white officers rid up close and yelled at us and took off his hat, but
I couldn't hear nothing he said.

Then he rid on and catch up with his men. They had stopped and was turning off to one side.
He looked back and waved his hat again for us to git away from that, and jest then he clapped
his hand to his belly and fell off his hoss.

Our white folks turned their buggy round and made it for home and no mistake! The niggers wasn't
fur behind neither!

They fit on back toward our plantation, and some of the fighting was inside it at one corner.
For three-four days after that they was burying soldiers 'round there, and some of de graves
was on our old place.

Long time afterwards people come and moved all them to other graveyards at Shiloh and Corinth
and other places. They was about a hundred killed all around there.

After de War I married Molly Timberlake and we lived on there 'til 1902, when we come to Indian
Territory at Haskell. They wasn't no Haskell there then, and I helped to build dat town, doing
carpenter work and the like.

We had two boys, Bill and Jim Dick, and eight daughters, Effie, Ida, Etta, Eva, Jessie, Tommie,
Bennie and Timmie. Her real name is Timberlake after her mammy. They all went to school and
graduated in the high schools.

My wife has been dead about ten years.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves 10-13-37 [Date stamp: NOV 5 1937]

CHANEY RICHARDSON Age 90 years Fort Gibson, Okla.

I was born in the old Caney settlement southeast of Tahlequah on the banks of Caney Creek.
Off to the north we could see the big old ridge of Sugar Mountain when the sun shine on him
first thing in the morning when we all getting up.

I didn't know nothing else but some kind of war until I was a grown woman, because when I first
can remember my old Master, Charley Rogers, was always on the lookout for somebody or other
he was lined up against in the big feud.

My master and all the rest of the folks was Cherokees, and they'd been killing each other off
in the feud ever since long before I was borned, and jest because old Master have a big farm
and three-four families of Negroes them other Cherokees keep on pestering his stuff all the
time. Us children was always afeared to go any place less'n some of the grown folks was along.

We didn't know what we was a-feared of, but we heard the Master and Mistress keep talking 'bout
"another Party killing" and we stuck close to the place.

Old Mistress' name was Nancy Rogers, but I was a orphan after I was a big girl and I called
her "Aunt" and "Mamma" like I did when I was little. You see my own mammy was the house woman
and I was raised in the house, and I heard the little children call old mistress "mamma" and
so I did too. She never did make me stop.

My pappy and mammy and us children lived in a one-room log cabin close to the creek bank and
jest a little piece from old Master's house.

My pappy's name was Joe Tucker and my mammy's name was Ruth Tucker. They belonged to a man
named Tucker before I was born and he sold them to Master Charley Rogers and he just let them
go on by the same name if they wanted to, because last name didn't mean nothing to a slave
anyways. The folks jest called my pappy "Charley Rogers' boy Joe."

I already had two sisters, Mary and Mandy, when I was born, and purty soon I had a baby brother,
Louis. Mammy worked at the Big House and took me along every day. When I was a little bigger
I would help hold the hank when she done the spinning and old Mistress done a lot of the weaving
and some knitting. She jest set by the window and knit most all of the time.

When we weave the cloth we had a big loom out on the gallery, and Miss Nancy tell us how to do it.

Mammy eat at our own cabin, and we had lots of game meat and fish the boys get in the Caney
Creek. Mammy bring down deer meat and wild turkey sometimes, that the Indian boys git on Sugar
Mountain.

Then we had corn bread, dried bean bread and green stuff out'n Master's patch. Mammy make the
bean bread when we git short of corn meal and nobody going to the mill right away. She take
and bile the beans and mash them up in some meal and that make it go a long ways.

The slaves didn't have no garden 'cause they work the old Master's garden and make enough for
everybody to have some anyway.

When I was about 10 years old that feud got so bad the Indians was always talking about getting
their horses and cattle killed and their slaves harmed. I was too little to know how bad it
was until one morning my own mammy went off somewhere down the road to git some stuff to dye
cloth and she didn't come back.

Lots of the young Indian bucks on both sides of the feud would ride around the woods at night,
and old Master got powerful oneasy about my mammy and had all the neighbors and slaves out
looking for her, but nobody find her.

It was about a week later that two Indian men rid up and ast old master wasn't his gal Ruth
gone. He says yes, and they take one of the slaves along with a wagon to show where they seen her.

They find her in some bushes where she'd been getting bark to set the dyes, and she been dead
all the time. Somebody done hit her in the head with a club and shot her through and through
with a bullet too. She was so swole up they couldn't lift her up and jest had to make a deep
hole right along side of her and roll her in it she was so bad mortified.

Old Master nearly go crazy he was so mad, and the young Cherokee men ride the woods every night
for about a month, but they never catch on to who done it.

I think old Master sell the children or give them out to somebody then, because I never see
my sisters and brother for a long time after the Civil War, and for me, I have to go live with
a new mistress that was a Cherokee neighbor. Her name was Hannah Ross, and she raised me until
I was grown.

I was her home girl, and she and me done a lot of spinning and weaving too. I helped the cook
and carried water and milked. I carried the water in a home-made pegging set on my head. Them
peggings was kind of buckets made out of staves set around a bottom and didn't have no handle.

I can remember weaving with Miss Hannah Ross. She would weave a strip of white and one of yellow
and one of brown to make it pretty. She had a reel that would pop every time it got to a half
skein so she would know to stop and fill it up again. We used copperas and some kind of bark
she bought at the store to dye with. It was cotton clothes winter and summer for the slaves,
too, I'll tell you.

When the Civil War come along we seen lots of white soldiers in them brown butternut suits
all over the place, and about all the Indian men was in it too. Old master Charley Rogers'
boy Charley went along too. Then pretty soon--it seem like about a year--a lot of the Cherokee
men come back home and say they not going back to the War with that General Cooper and some
of them go off the Federal side because the captain go to the Federal side too.

Somebody come along and tell me my own pappy have to go in the war and I think they say he
on the Copper side, and then after while Miss Hannah tell me he git kilt over in Arkansas.

I was so grieved all the time I don't remember much what went on, but I know pretty soon my
Cherokee folks had all the stuff they had et up by the soldiers and they was jest a few wagons
and mules left.

All the slaves was piled in together and some of the grown ones walking, and they took us way
down across the big river and kept us in the bottoms a long time until the War was over.

We lived in a kind of a camp, but I was too little to know where they got the grub to feed
us with. Most all the Negro men was off somewhere in the War.

Then one day they had to bust up the camp and some Federal soldiers go with us and we all start
back home. We git to a place where all the houses is burned down and I ask what is that place.
Miss Hannah say: "Skullyville, child. That's where they had part of the War."

All the slaves was set out when we git to Fort Gibson, and the soldiers say we all free now.
They give us grub and clothes to the Negroes at that place. It wasn't no town but a fort place
and a patch of big trees.

Miss Hannah take me to her place and I work there until I was grown. I didn't git any money
that I seen, but I got a good place to stay.

Pretty soon I married Ran Lovely and we lived in a double log house here at Fort Gibson. Then
my second husband was Henry Richardson, but he's been dead for years, too. We had six children,
but they all dead but one.

I didn't want slavery to be over with, mostly because we had the War I reckon. All that trouble
made me the loss of my mammy and pappy, and I was always treated good when I was a slave. When
it was over I had rather be at home like I was. None of the Cherokees ever whipped us, and
my mistress give me some mighty fine rules to live by to git along in this world, too.

The Cherokee didn't have no jail for Negroes and no jail for themselves either. If a man done
a crime he come back to take his punishment without being locked up.

None of the Negroes ran away when I was a child that I know of. We all had plenty to eat. The
Negroes didn't have no school and so I can't read and write, but they did have a school after
the War, I hear. But we had a church made out of a brush arbor and we would sing good songs
in Cherokee sometimes.

I always got Sunday off to play, and at night I could go git a piece of sugar or something
to eat before I went to bed and Mistress didn't care.

We played bread-and-butter and the boys played hide the switch. The one found the switch got
to whip the one he wanted to.

When I got sick they give me some kind of tea from weeds, and if I et too many roasting ears
and swole up they biled gourds and give me the liquor off'n them to make me throw up.

I've been a good church-goer all my life until I git too feeble, and I still understand and
talk Cherokee language and love to hear songs and parts of the Bible in it because it make
me think about the time I was a little girl before my mammy and pappy leave me. Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma

I was born July 21, 1862, at Grimes County, Texas. Smith Richardson was my father's name, and
Eliza Richardson my mother's. My father came from Virginia. My mother she was born in Texas.

We lived in so many places round there I can't tell jest what, but we lived in a log house
most of the time. We slept on the flo' on pallets on one quilt. We ate cornbread, beans, vegetables,
and got to drink plenty milk. We ate rabbits, fish, possums and such as that but we didn't
get no chicken. I don't have no fav'rite food, I don't guess.

We wore shirts, long shirts slit up the side. I didn't know what pants was until I was 14.
In Grimes County it ain't even cold these days, and I never wore no shoes. I married in a suit
made of broad cloth. It had a tail on the coat.

Master Ben Hadley, and Mistress Minnie Hadley, they had three sons: Josh, Henry and Charley.
Didn't have no overseer. We had to call all white folks, poor or rich, Mr. Master and Mistress.
Master Hadley owned 'bout 2,000 acres. He had a big number of slaves. They used to wake 'em
up early in the mornings by ringing a large bell. They said they used to whip 'em, drive 'em,
and sell 'em away from their chillun,--I'd hear my old folks talk about it. Say they wasn't
no such a thing as going to jail. The master stood good for anything his nigger done. If the
master's nigger killed 'im another nigger, the old master stood good.

They never had no schools for the Negro chillun. I can't remember the date of the first school--its
in a book someplace--but anyway I went to one of the first schools that was established for
the education of Negro chillun.

You know Mr. Negro always was a church man, but he don't mean nothing. I don't have no fav'rite
spiritual. All of them's good ones. Whenever they'd baptise they'd sing:

"Harp From the Tune the Domeful Sound."

Which starts like this:

    "Come live in man and view this ground
    where we must sho'ly lie."

I'm a member of Tabernacle Baptist Church myself, and I think all people should be religious
'cause Jesus died for us all.

The patrollers used to run after me but I'd jump 'em. They used to have a permit to go from
one plantation to another. You had to go to old master and say, "I want to go to such and such
a place." And if you had a permit they didn't bother you. The pateroller would stop you and
say, "Where you going? You got a permit to go to such and such a place?" You'd say, yes suh,
and show that pass. Den he wouldn't bother you and iffen he did old master would git on 'em.

When 10 o'clock come which was bed time the slaves would go to their cabins and some of 'em
would go stealing chickens, hogs, steal sweet potatoes, and cook and eat 'em. Jest git in to
all kind of devilment.

Old master would give 'em Sadday afternoon off, and they'd have them Sadday night breakdowns.
We played a few games such as marbles, mumble peg, and cards--jest anything to pass off the
time. Heahs one of the games we'd play an' I sho did like it too:

    She is my sweetheart as I stand,
    Come and stand beside of me,
    Kiss her sweet and;
    Hug her near.

On Christmas they'd make egg nog, drink whiskey and kiss their girls.

Some wore charms to ward off the devil, but I don't believe in such. I do believe in voodoo
like this: People can put propositions up to you and fool you. Don't believe in ghost. Tried
to see 'em but I never could.

Old master didn't turn my father loose and tell 'em we was free. They didn't turn us loose
'til they got the second threat from President Lincoln. Good old Lincoln; they wasn't nothing
like 'im. Booker T. Washington was one of the finest Negro Educators in the world, but old
Jefferson Davis was against the cullud man.

I think since slavery is all over, it has been a benefit to the cullud man. He's got more freedom
now.

Oklahoma Writer's Project Ex-Slaves

BETTY ROBERTSON Age 93 yrs. Fort Gibson, Oklahoma

I was born close to Webber's Falls, in the Canadian District of the Cherokee Nation, in the
same year that my pappy was blowed up and killed in the big boat accident that killed my old
Master.

I never did see my daddy excepting when I was a baby and I only know what my mammy told me
about him. He come from across the water when he was a little boy, and was grown when old Master
Joseph Vann bought him, so he never did learn to talk much Cherokee. My mammy was a Cherokee
slave, and talked it good. My husband was a Cherokee born negro, too, and when he got mad he
forgit all the English he knowed.

Old Master Joe had a mighty big farm and several families of negroes, and he was a powerful
rich man. Pappy's name was Kalet Vann, and mammy's name was Sally. My brothers was name Sone
and Frank. I had one brother and one sister sold when I was little and I don't remember the
names. My other sisters was Polly, Ruth and Liddie. I had to work in the kitchen when I was
a gal, and they was ten or twelve children smaller than me for me to look after, too. Sometime
Young Master Joe and the other boys give me a piece of money and say I worked for it, and I
reckon I did for I have to cook five or six times a day. Some of the Master's family was always
going down to the river and back, and every time they come in I have to fix something to eat.
Old Mistress had a good cookin' stove, but most Cherokees had only a big fireplace and pot
hooks. We had meat, bread, rice, potatoes and plenty of fish and chicken. The spring time give
us plenty of green corn and beans too. I couldn't buy anything in slavery time, so I jest give
the piece of money to the Vann children. I got all the clothes I need from old Mistress, and
in winter I had high top shoes with brass caps on the toe. In the summer I wear them on Sunday,
too. I wore loom cloth clothes, dyed in copperas what the old negro women and the old Cherokee
women made.

The slaves had a pretty easy time I think. Young Master Vann never very hard on us and he never
whupped us, and old Mistress was a widow woman and a good Christian and always kind. I sure
did love her. Maybe old Master Joe Vann was harder, I don't know, but that was before my time.
Young Master never whip his slaves, but if they don't mind good he sell them off sometimes.
He sold one of my brothers and one sister because they kept running off. They wasn't very big
either, but one day two Cherokees rode up and talked a long time, then young Master came to
the cabin and said they were sold because mammy couldn't make them mind him. They got on the
horses behind the men and went off.

Old Master Joe had a big steam boat he called the Lucy Walker, and he run it up and down the
Arkansas and the Mississippi and the Ohio river, old Mistress say. He went clean to Louisville,
Kentucky, and back. My pappy was a kind of a boss of the negroes that run the boat, and they
all belong to old Master Joe. Some had been in a big run-away and had been brung back, and
wasn't so good, so he keep them on the boat all the time mostly. Mistress say old Master and
my pappy on the boat somewhere close to Louisville and the boiler bust and tear the boat up.
Some niggers say my pappy kept hollering, "Run it to the bank! Run it to the bank!" but it
sunk and him and old Master died.

Old Master Joe was a big man in the Cherokees, I hear, and was good to his negroes before I
was born. My pappy run away one time, four or five years before I was born, mammy tell me,
and at that time a whole lot of Cherokee slaves run off at once. They got over in the Creek
country and stood off the Cherokee officers that went to git them, but pretty soon they give
up and come home. Mammy say they was lots of excitement on old Master's place and all the negroes
mighty scared, but he didn't sell my pappy off. He jest kept him and he was a good negro after
that. He had to work on the boat, though, and never got to come home but once in a long while.

Young Master Joe let us have singing and be baptized if we want to, but I wasn't baptized till
after the War. But we couldn't learn to read or have a book, and the Cherokee folks was afraid
to tell us about the letters and figgers because they have a law you go to jail and a big fine
if you show a slave about the letters.

When the War come they have a big battle away west of us, but I never see any battles. Lots
of soldiers around all the time though.

One day young Master come to the cabins and say we all free and can't stay there less'n we
want to go on working for him just like we'd been, for our feed and clothes. Mammy got a wagon
and we traveled around a few days and go to Fort Gibson. When we git to Fort Gibson they was
a lot of negroes there, and they had a camp meeting and I was baptized. It was in the Grand
River close to the ford, and winter time. Snow on the ground and the water was muddy and all
full of pieces of ice. The place was all woods, and the Cherokees and the soldiers all come
down to see the baptizing.

We settled down a little ways above Fort Gibson. Mammy had the wagon and two oxen, and we worked
a good size patch there until she died, and then I git married to Cal Robertson to have somebody
to take care of me. Cal Robertson was eighty-nine years old when I married him forty years
ago, right on this porch. I had on my old clothes for the wedding, and I aint had any good
clothes since I was a little slave girl. Then I had clean warm clothes and I had to keep them
clean, too!

I got my allotment as a Cherokee Freedman, and so did Cal, but we lived here at this place
because we was too old to work the land ourselves. In slavery time the Cherokee negroes do
like anybody else when they is a death--jest listen to a chapter in the Bible and all cry.
We had a good song I remember. It was "Don't Call the Roll, Jesus, Because I'm Coming Home."
The only song I remember from the soldiers was: "Hang Jeff Davis to a Sour Apple Tree", and
I remember that because they said he used to be at Fort Gibson one time. I don't know what
he done after that.

I don't know about Robert Lee, but I know about Lee's Creek.

I been a good Christian ever since I was baptized, but I keep a little charm here on my neck
anyways, to keep me from having the nose bleed. Its got a buckeye and a lead bullet in it.
I had a silver dime on it, too, for a long time, but I took it off and got me a box of snuff.
I'm glad the War's over and I am free to meet God like anybody else, and my grandchildren can
learn to read and write.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-slaves [Date stamp: AUG 18 1937]

HARRIET ROBINSON Age 95 yrs. 500 Block N. Fonshill Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

I was born September 1, 1842, in Bastrop, Texas, on Colorado River. My pappy was named Harvey
Wheeler and my mammy was named Carolina Sims. My brothers and sisters was named Alex, Taylor,
Mary, Cicero, Tennessee, Sarah, Jeff, Ella and Nora. We lived in cedar log houses with dirt
floors and double chimneys, and doors hung on wooden hinges. One side of our beds was bored
in the walls and had one leg on the other. Them white folks give each nigger family a blanket
in winter.

I nussed 3 white chillun, Lulu, Helen Augusta, and Lola Sims. I done this before that War that
set us free. We kids use to make extra money by toting gravel in our aprons. They'd give us
dimes and silver nickles.

Our clothes was wool and cotton mixed. We had red rustic shoes, soles one-half inch thick.
They'd go a-whick a-whack. The mens had pants wid one seam and a right-hand pocket. Boys wore
shirts.

We ate hominy, mush, grits and pone bread for the most part. Many of them ate out of one tray
with wooden spoons. All vittles for field hands was fixed together.

Women broke in mules throwed 'em down and roped 'em. They'd do it better'n men. While mammy
made some hominy one day both my foots was scalded and when they clipped them blisters, they
jest put some cotton round them and catched all dat yellow water and made me a yellow dress
out of it. This was 'way back yonder in slavery, before the War.

Whenever white folks had a baby born den all de old niggers had to come thoo the room and the
master would be over 'hind the bed and he'd say, "Here's a new little mistress or master you
got to work for." You had to say, "Yessuh Master" and bow real low or the overseer would crack
you. Them was slavery days, dog days.

I remember in slavery time we had stages. Them devilish things had jest as many wrecks as cars
do today. Only thing, we jest didn't have as many.

My mammy belonged to Master Colonel Sam Sims and his old mean wife Julia. My pappy belonged
to Master Meke Smith and his good wife Harriett. She was sho' a good woman. I was named after
her. Master Sam and Master Meke was partners. Ever year them rich men would send so many wagons
to New Mexico for different things. It took 6 months to go and come.

Slaves was punished by whip and starving. Decker was sho' a mean slave-holder. He lived close
to us. Master Sam didn't never whip me, but Miss Julia whipped me every day in the mawning.
During the war she beat us so terrible. She say, "Your master's out fighting and losing blood
trying to save you from them Yankees, so you kin git your'n here." Miss Julia would take me
by my ears and butt my head against the wall. She wanted to whip my mother, but old Master
told her, naw sir. When his father done give my mammy to Master Sam, he told him not to beat
her, and iffen he got to whar he jest had to, jest bring her back and place her in his yard
from whar he got her.

White folks didn't 'low you to read or write. Them what did know come from Virginny. Mistress
Julia used to drill her chillun in spelling any words. At every word them chillun missed, she
gived me a lick 'cross the head for it. Meanest woman I ever seen in my whole life.

This skin I got now, it ain't my first skin. That was burnt off when I was a little child.
Mistress used to have a fire made on the fireplace and she made me scour the brass round it
and my skin jest blistered. I jest had to keep pulling it off'n me.

We didn't had no church, though my pappy was a preacher. He preached in the quarters. Our baptizing
song was "On Jordan's Stormy Bank I stand" and "Hark From The Tomb." Now all dat was before
the War. We had all our funerals at the graveyard. Everybody, chillun and all picked up a clod
of dirt and throwed in on top the coffin to help fill up the grave.

Taling 'bout niggers running away, didn't my step-pappy run away? Didn't my uncle Gabe run
away? The frost would jest bite they toes most nigh off too, whiles they was gone. They put
Uncle Isom (my step-pappy) in jail and while's he was in there he killed a white guardman.
Then they put in the paper, "A nigger to kill", and our Master seen it and bought him. He was
a double-strengthed man, he was so strong. He'd run off so help you God. They had the blood
hounds after him once and he caught the hound what was leading and beat the rest of the dogs.
The white folks run up on him before he knowed it and made them dogs eat his ear plumb out.
But don't you know he got away anyhow. One morning I was sweeping out the hall in the big house
and somebody come a-knocking on the front door and I goes to the door. There was Uncle Isom
wid rags all on his head. He said, "Tell ole master heah I am." I goes to Master's door and
says, "Master Colonel Sam, Uncle Isom said heah he am." He say, "Go 'round to the kitchen and
tell black mammy to give you breakfast." When he was thoo' eating they give him 300 lashes
and, bless my soul, he run off again.

When we went to a party the nigger fiddlers would play a chune dat went lak this:

    I fooled Ole Mastah 7 years
    Fooled the overseer three;
    Hand me down my banjo
    And I'll tickle your bel-lee.

We had the same doctors the white folks had and we wore asafetida and garlic and onions to
keep from taking all them ailments.

I 'member the battle being fit. The white folks buried all the jewelry and silver and all the
gold in the Blue Ridge Mountains, in Orange, Texas. Master made all us niggers come together
and git ready to leave 'cause the Yankees was coming. We took a steamer. Now this was in slavery
time, sho' 'nuff slavery. Then we got on a steamship and pulled out to Galveston. Then he told
the captain to feed we niggers. We was on the bay, not the ocean. We left Galveston and went
on trains for Houston.

One, my sister Liza, was mulatto and Master Colonel Sims' son had 3 chillun by her. We never
seen her no more after her last child was born. I found out though that she was in Canada.

After the War, Master Colonel Sims went to git the mail and so he call Daniel Ivory, the overseer,
and say to him, "Go round to all the quarters and tell all the niggers to come up, I got a
paper to read to 'em. They're free now, so you kin git you another job, 'cause I ain't got
no more niggers which is my own." Niggers come up from the cabins nappy-headed, jest lak they
gwine to the field. Master Colonel Sims say, "Caroline (that's my mammy), you is free as me.
Pa said bring you back and I'se gwina do jest that. So you go on and work and I'll pay you
and your three oldest chillun $10.00 a month a head and $4.00 fer Harriet," that's me, and
then he turned to the rest and say "Now all you'uns will receive $10.00 a head till the crops
is laid by." Don't you know before he got half way thoo', over half them niggers was gone.

Them Klu Klux Klans come and ask for water with the false stomachs and make lak they was drinking
three bucketsful. They done some terrible things, but God seen it all and marked it down.

We didn't had no law, we had "bureau." Why, in them days iffen somebody stole anything from
you, they had to pay you and not the Law. Now they done turned that round and you don't git
nothing.

One day whiles master was gone hunting, Mistress Julia told her brother to give Miss Harriett
(me) a free whipping. She was a nigger killer. Master Colonel Sam come home and he said, "You
infernal sons o' bitches don't you know there is 300 Yankees camped out here and iffen they
knowed you'd whipped this nigger the way you done done, they'd kill all us. Iffen they find
it out, I'll kill all you all." Old rich devils, I'm here, but they is gone.

God choosed Abraham Lincoln to free us. It took one of them to free us so's they couldn't say
nothing.

Doing one 'lection they sung:

    Clark et the watermelon
    J. D. Giddings et the vine!
    Clark gone to Congress
    An' J. D. Giddings left behind.

They hung Jeff Davis up a sour apple tree. They say he was a president, but he wasn't, he was
a big senator man.

Booker T. Washington was all right in his way, I guess, but Bruce and Fred Douglass, or big
mens jest sold us back to the white folks.

I married Haywood Telford and had 13 head of chillun by him. My oldest daughter is the mammy
of 14. All my chillun but four done gone to heaven before me.

I jined the church in Chapel Hill, Texas. I am born of the Spirit of God sho' nuff. I played
with him seven years and would go right on dancing at Christmas time. Now I got religion. Everybody
oughta live right, though you won't have no friends iffen you do.

Our overseer was a poor man. Had us up before day and lak-a-that. He was paid to be the head
of punishment. I jest didn't like to think of them old slavery days, dogs' days. Tulsa, Oklahoma

I can set on de gallery, whar de sunlight shine bright, and sew a powerful fine seam when my
grandchillun wants a special purty dress for de school doings, but I ain't worth much for nothing
else I reckon.

These same old eyes seen powerful lot of tribulations in my time, and when I shets 'em now
I can see lots of l'il chillun jest lak my grandchillun, toting hoes bigger dan dey is, and
dey pore little black hands and legs bleeding whar dey scratched by de brambledy weeds, and
whar dey got whuppings 'cause dey didn't git out all de work de overseer set out for 'em.

I was one of dem little slave gals my own self, and I never seen nothing but work and tribulations
till I was a grown up woman, jest about.

De niggers had hard traveling on de plantation whar I was born and raised, 'cause old Master
live in town and jest had de overseer on de place, but iffen he had lived out dar hisself I
speck it been as bad, 'cause he was a hard driver his own self.

He git biling mad when de Yankees have dat big battle at Pea Ridge and scatter de 'Federates
all down through our country all bleeding and tied up and hungry, and he jest mount on his
hoss and ride out to de plantation whar we all hoeing corn.

He ride up and tell old man Saunders--dat de overseer--to bunch us all up round de lead row
man--dat my own uncle Sandy--and den he tell us de law!

"You niggers been seeing de 'Federate soldiers coming by here looking purty raggedy and hurt
and wore out," he say, "but dat no sign dey licked!

"Dem Yankees ain't gwine git dis fur, but iffen dey do you all ain't gwine git free by 'em,
'cause I gwine free you befo' dat. When dey git here dey going find you already free, 'cause
I gwine line you up on de bank of Bois d' Arc Creek and free you wid my shotgun! Anybody miss
jest one lick wid de hoe, or one step in de line, or one clap of dat bell, or one toot of de
horn, and he gwine be free and talking to de debil long befo' he ever see a pair of blue britches!"

Dat de way he talk to us, and dat de way he act wid us all de time.

We live in de log quarters on de plantation, not far from Washington, Arkansas, close to Bois
d' Arc Creek, in de edge of de Little River bottom.

Old Master's name was Dr. Isaac Jones, and he live in de town, whar he keep four, five house
niggers, but he have about 200 on de plantation, big and little, and old man Saunders oversee
'em at de time of de War. Old Mistress name was Betty, and she had a daughter name Betty about
grown, and then they was three boys, Tom, Bryan, and Bob, but they was too young to go to de
War. I never did see 'em but once or twice 'til after de War.

Old Master didn't go to de War, 'cause he was a doctor and de onliest one left in Washington,
and purty soon he was dead anyhow.

Next fall after he ride out and tell us dat he gwine shoot us befo' he let us free he come
out to see how his steam gin doing. De gin box was a little old thing 'bout as big as a bedstead,
wid a long belt running through de side of de gin house out to de engine and boiler in de yard.
De boiler burn cord wood, and it have a little crack in it whar de nigger ginner been trying
to fix it.

Old Master come out, hopping mad 'cause de gin shet down, and ast de ginner, old Brown, what
de matter. Old Brown say de boiler weak and it liable to bust, but old Master jump down off'n
his hoss and go 'round to de boiler and say, "Cuss fire to your black heart! Dat boiler all
right! Throw on some cordwood, cuss fire to your heart!"

Old Brown start to de wood pile grumbling to hisself and old Master stoop down to look at de
boiler again, and it blow right up and him standing right dar!

Old Master was blowed all to pieces, and dey jest find little bitsy chunks of his clothes and
parts of him to bury.

De wood pile blow down, and old Brown land way off in de woods, but he wasn't killed.

Two wagons of cotton blowed over, and de mules run away, and all de niggers was scared nearly
to death 'cause we knowed de overseer gwine be a lot worse, now dat old Master gone.

Before de War when Master was a young man de slaves didn't have it so hard, my mammy tell me.
Her name was Fanny and her old mammy name was Nanny. Grandma Nanny was alive during de War yet.

How she come in de Jones family was dis way: old Mistress was jest a little girl, and her older
brother bought Nanny and give her to her. I think his name was Little John, anyways we called
him Master Little John. He drawed up a paper what say dat Nanny allus belong to Miss Betty
and all de chillun Nanny ever have belong to her, too, and nobody can't take 'em for a debt
and things like dat. When Miss Betty marry, old Master he can't sell Nanny or any of her chillun
neither.

Dat paper hold good too, and grandmammy tell me about one time it hold good and keep my own
mammy on de place.

Grandmammy say mammy was jest a little gal and was playing out in de road wid three, four other
little chillun when a white man and old Master rid up. The white man had a paper about some
kind of a debt, and old Master say take his pick of de nigger chillun and give him back de paper.

Jest as Grandmammy go to de cabin door and hear him say dat de man git off his hoss and pick
up my mammy and put her up in front of him and start to ride off down de road.

Pretty soon Mr. Little John come riding up and say something to old Master, and see grandmammy
standing in de yard screaming and crying. He jest job de spur in his hoss and go kiting off
down de road after dat white man.

Mammy say he ketch up wid him jest as he git to Bois d' Arc Creek and start to wade de hoss
across. Mr. Little John holler to him to come back wid dat little nigger 'cause de paper don't
kiver dat child, 'cause she old Mistress' own child, and when de man jest ride on, Mr. Little
John throw his big old long hoss-pistol down on him and make him come back.

De man hopping mad, but he have to give over my mammy and take one de other chillun on de debt
paper.

Old Master allus kind of techy 'bout old Mistress having niggers he can't trade or sell, and
one day he have his whole family and some more white folks out at de plantation. He showing
'em all de quarters when we all come in from de field in de evening, and he call all de niggers
up to let de folks see 'em.

He make grandmammy and mammy and me stand to one side and den he say to the other niggers,
"Dese niggers belong to my wife but you belong to me, and I'm de only one you is to call Master.

"Dis is Tom, and Bryan, and Bob, and Miss Betty, and you is to call 'em dat, and don't you
ever call one of 'em Young Master or Young Mistress, cuss fire to your black hearts!" All de
other white folks look kind of funny, and old Mistress look 'shamed of old Master.

My own pappy was in dat bunch, too. His name was Frank, and after de War he took de name of
Frank Henderson, 'cause he was born under dat name, but I allus went by Jones, de name I was
born under.

Long about de middle of de War, after old Master was killed, de soldiers begin coming 'round
de place and camping. Dey was Southern soldiers and dey say dey have to take de mules and most
de corn to git along on. Jest go in de barns and cribs and take anything dey want, and us niggers
didn't have no sweet 'taters nor Irish 'taters to eat on when dey gone neither.

One bunch come and stay in de woods across de road from de overseer's house, and dey was all
on hosses. Dey lead de hosses down to Bois d' Arc Creek every morning at daylight and late
every evening to git water. When we going to de field and when we coming in we allus see dem
leading big bunches of hosses.

Dey bugle go jest 'bout de time our old horn blow in de morning and when we come in dey eating
supper, and we smell it and sho' git hungry!

Before old Master died he sold off a whole lot of hosses and cattle, and some niggers too.
He had de sales on de plantation, and white men from around dar come to bid, and some traders
come. He had a big stump whar he made de niggers stand while dey was being sold, and de men
and boys had to strip off to de waist to show dey muscle and iffen dey had any scars or hurt
places, but de women and gals didn't have to strip to de waist.

De white men come up and look in de slave's mouth jest lak he was a mule or a hoss.

After old Master go, de overseer hold one sale, but mostly he jest trade wid de traders what
come by. He make de niggers git on de stump, through. De traders all had big bunches of slaves
and dey have 'em all strung out in a line going down de road. Some had wagons and de chillun
could ride, but not many. Dey didn't chain or tie 'em 'cause dey didn't have no place dey could
run to anyway.

I seen chillun sold off and de mammy not sold, and, sometimes de mammy sold and a little baby
kept on de place and give to another woman to raise. Dem white folks didn't care nothing 'bout
how de slaves grieved when dey tore up a family.

Old man Saunders was de hardest overseer of anybody. He would git mad and give a whipping some
time and de slave wouldn't even know what it was about.

My uncle Sandy was de lead row nigger, and he was a good nigger and never would tech a drap
of likker. One night some de niggers git hold of some likker somehow, and dey leave de jug
half full on de step of Sandy's cabin. Next morning old man Saunders come out in de field so
mad he was pale.

He jest go to de lead row and tell Sandy to go wid him, and start toward de woods along Bois
d' Arc Creek wid Sandy follering behind. De overseer always carry a big heavy stick, but we
didn't know he was so mad, and dey jest went off in de woods.

Purty soon we hear Sandy hollering and we know old overseer pouring in on, den de overseer
come back by his self and go on up to de house.

Come late evening he come and see what we done in de day's work, and go back to de quarters
wid us all. Then he git to mammy's cabin, whar grandmammy live too, he say to grandmammy, "I
sent Sandy down in de woods to hunt a hoss, he gwine come in hungry purty soon. You better
make him a extra hoe cake," and he kind of laugh and go on to his house.

Jest soon as he gone we all tell grandmammy we think he got a whipping, and sho' nuff he didn't
come in.

De next day some white boys find uncle Sandy whar dat overseer done killed him and throwed
him in a little pond, and dey never done nothing to old man Saunders at all!

When he go to whip a nigger he make him strip to de waist, and he take a cat-o-nine tails and
bring de blisters, and den bust de blisters wid a wide strap of leather fastened to a stick
handle. I seen de blood running out'n many a back, all de way from de neck to de waist!

Many de time a nigger git blistered and cut up so dat we have to git a sheet and grease it
wid lard and wrap 'em up in it, and dey have to wear a greasy cloth wrapped around dey body
under de shirt for three-four days after dey git a big whipping!

Later on in de War de Yankees come in all around us and camp, and de overseer git sweet as
honey in de comb! Nobody git a whipping all de time de Yankees dar!

Dey come and took all de meat and corn and 'taters dey want too, and dey tell us, "Why don't
you poor darkeys take all de meat and molasses you want? You made it and it's your's much as
anybody's!" But we know dey soon be gone, and den we git a whipping iffen we do. Some niggers
run off and went wid de Yankees, but dey had to work jest as hard for dem, and dey didn't eat
so good and often wid de soldiers.

I never forget de day we was set free!

Dat morning we all go to de cotton field early, and den a house nigger come out from old Mistress
on a hoss and say she want de overseer to come into town, and he leave and go in. After while
de old horn blow up at de overseer's house, and we all stop and listen, 'cause it de wrong
time of day for de horn.

We start chopping again, and dar go de horn again.

De lead row nigger holler "Hold up!" And we all stop again. "We better go on in. Dat our horn,"
he holler at de head nigger, and de head nigger think so too, but he say he afraid we catch
de devil from de overseer iffen we quit widout him dar, and de lead row man say maybe he back
from town and blowing de horn hisself, so we line up and go in.

When we git to de quarters we see all de old ones and de chillun up in de overseer's yard,
so we go on up dar. De overseer setting on de end of de gallery wid a paper in his hand, and
when we all come up he say come and stand close to de gallery. Den he call off everybody's
name and see we all dar.

Setting on de gallery in a hide-bottom chair was a man we never see before. He had on a big
broad black hat lak de Yankees wore but it din't have no yaller string on it lak most de Yankees
had, and he was in store clothes dat wasn't homespun or jeans, and dey was black. His hair
was plumb gray and so was his beard, and it come way down here on his chest, but he didn't
look lak he was very old, 'cause his face was kind of fleshy and healthy looking. I think we
all been sold off in a bunch, and I notice some kind of smiling, and I think they sho' glad of it.

De man say, "You darkies know what day dis is?" He talk kind, and smile.

We all don't know of course, and we jest stand dar and grin. Pretty soon he ask again and de
head man say, No, we don't know.

"Well dis de fourth day of June, and dis is 1865, and I want you all to 'member de date, 'cause
you allus going 'member de day. Today you is free, Jest lak I is, and Mr. Saunders and your
Mistress and all us white people," de man say.

"I come to tell you", he say, "and I wants to be sho' you all understand, 'cause you don't
have to git up and go by de horn no more. You is your own bosses now, and you don't have to
have no passes to go and come."

We never did have no passes, nohow, but we knowed lots of other niggers on other plantations
got 'em.

"I wants to bless you and hope you always is happy, and tell you got all de right and lief
[TR: sic] dat any white people got", de man say, and den he git on his hoss and ride off.

We all jest watch him go on down de road, and den we go up to Mr. Saunders and ask him what
he want us to do. He jest grunt and say do lak we dam please, he reckon, but git off dat place
to do it, less'n any of us wants to stay and make de crop for half of what we make.

None of us know whar to go, so we all stay, and he split up de fields and show us which part
we got to work in, and we go on lak we was, and make de crop and git it in, but dey ain't no
more horn after dat day. Some de niggers lazy and don't git in de field early, and dey git
it took away from 'em, but dey plead around and git it back and work better de rest of dat year.

But we all gits fooled on dat first go-out! When de crop all in we don't git half! Old Mistress
sick in town, and de overseer was still on de place and he charge us half de crop for de quarters
and de mules and tools and grub!

Den he leave, and we gits another white man, and he sets up a book, and give us half de next
year, and take out for what we use up, but we all got something left over after dat first go-out.

Old Mistress never git well after she lose all her niggers, and one day de white boss tell
us she jest drap over dead setting in her chair, and we know her heart jest broke.

Next year de chillun sell off most de place and we scatter off, and I and mammy go into Little
Rock and do work in de town. Grandmammy done dead.

I git married to John White in Little Rock, but he died and we didn't have no chillun. Den
in four, five years I marry Billy Rowe. He was a Cherokee citizen and he had belonged to a
Cherokee name Dave Rowe, and lived east of Tahlequah before de War. We married in Little Rock,
but he had land in de Cherokee Nation, and we come to east of Tahlequah and lived 'til he died,
and den I come to Tulsa to live wid my youngest daughter.

Billy Rowe and me had three chillun, Ellie, John, and Lula. Lula married a Thomas, and it's
her I lives with.

Lots of old people lak me say dat dey was happy in slavery, and dat dey had de worst tribulations
after freedom, but I knows dey didn't have no white master and overseer lak we all had on our
place. Dey both dead now I reckon, and dey no use talking 'bout de dead, but I know I been
gone long ago iffen dat white man Saunder didn't lose his hold on me.

It was de fourth day of June in 1865 I begins to live, and I gwine take de picture of dat old
man in de big black hat and long whiskers, setting on de gallery and talking kind to us, clean
into my grave wid me.

No, bless God, I ain't never seen no more black boys bleeding all up and down de back under
a cat o' nine tails, and I never go by no cabin and hear no poor nigger groaning, all wrapped
up in a lardy sheet no more!

I hear my chillun read about General Lee, and I know he was a good man, I didn't know nothing
about him den, but I know now he wasn't fighting for dat kind of white folks.

Maybe dey dat kind still yet, but dey don't show it up no more, and I got lots of white friends
too. All my chillun and grandchillun been to school, and dey git along good, and I know we
living in a better world, what dey ain't nobody "cussing fire to my black heart!"

I sho' thank de good Lawd I got to see it.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MORRIS SHEPPARD Age 85 yrs. Fort Gibson, Okla.

Old Master tell me I was borned in November 1852, at de old home place about five miles east
of Webber's Falls, mebbe kind of northeast, not far from de east bank of de Illinois River.

Master's name was Joe Sheppard, and he was a Cherokee Indian. Tall and slim and handsome. He
had black eyes and mustache but his hair was iron gray, and everybody liked him because he
was so good-natured and kind.

I don't remember old Mistress' name. My mammy was a Crossland negro before she come to belong
to Master Joe and marry my pappy, and I think she come wid old Mistress and belong to her.
Old Mistress was small and mighty pretty too, and she was only half Cherokee. She inherit about
half a dozen slaves, and say dey was her own and old Master can't sell one unless she give
him leave to do it.

Dey only had two families of slaves wid about twenty in all, and dey only worked about fifty
acres, so we sure did work every foot of it good. We git three or four crops of different things
out of dat farm every year, and something growing on dat place winter and summer.

Pappy's name was Caesar Sheppard and Mammy's name was Easter. Dey was both raised 'round Webber's
Falls somewhere. I had two brothers, Silas and George, dat belong to Mr. George Holt in Webber's
Falls town. I got a pass and went to see dem sometimes, and dey was both treated mighty fine.

The Big House was a double log wid a big hall and a stone chimney but no porches, wid two rooms
at each end, one top side of de other. I thought it was mighty big and fine.

Us slaves lived in log cabins dat only had one room and no windows so we kept de doors open
most of de time. We had home-made wooden beds wid rope springs, and de little ones slept on
trundle beds dat was home made too.

At night dem trundles was jest all over de floor, and in de morning we shove dem back under
de big beds to git dem out'n de way. No nails in none of dem nor in de chairs and tables. Nails
cost big money and old Master's blacksmith wouldn't make none 'cepting a few for old Master
now and den, so we used wooden dowels to put things together.

They was so many of us for dat little field we never did have to work hard. Up at five o'clock
and back in sometimes about de middle of de evening, long before sundown, unless they was a
crop to git in before it rain or something like dat.

When crop was laid by de slaves jest work 'round at dis and dat and keep tol'able busy. I never
did have much of a job, jest tending de calves mostly. We had about twenty calves and I would
take dem out and graze 'em while some grown-up negro was grazing de cows so as to keep de cows
milk. I had me a good blaze-faced horse for dat.

One time old Master and another man come and took some calves off and Pappy say old Master
taking dem off to sell. I didn't know what "sell" meant and I ast Pappy, "Is he going to bring
'em back when he git through selling them?" I never did see no money neither, until time of
de War or a little before.

Master Joe was sure a good provider, and we always had plenty of corn pone, sow belly and greens,
sweet potatoes, cow peas and cane molasses. We even had brown sugar and cane molasses most
of de time before de War. Sometimes coffee, too.

De clothes wasn't no worry neither. Everything we had was made by my folks. My aunt done de
carding and spinning and my mammy done de weaving and cutting and sewing, and my pappy could
make cowhide shoes wid wooden pegs. Dey was for bad winter only.

Old Master bought de cotton in Ft. Smith because he didn't raise no cotton, but he had a few
sheep and we had wool-mix for winter.

Everything was stripedy 'cause Mammy like to make it fancy. She dye wid copperas and walnut
and wild indigo and things like dat and make pretty cloth. I wore a stripedy shirt till I was
about eleven years old, and den one day while we was down in de Choctaw Country old Mistress
see me and nearly fall off'n her horse! She holler, "Easter, you go right now and make dat
big buck of a boy some britches!"

We never put on de shoes until about late November when de frost begin to hit regular and split
our feet up, and den when it git good and cold and de crop all gathered in anyways, they is
nothing to do 'cepting hog killing and a lot of wood chopping, and you don't git cold doing
dem two things.

De hog killing mean we gits lots of spare-ribs and chitlings, and somebody always git sick
eating too much of dat fresh pork. I always pick a whole passel of muskatines for old Master
and he make up sour wine, and dat helps out when we git the bowel complaint from eating dat
fresh pork.

If somebody bad sick he git de doctor right quick, and he don't let no negroes mess around
wid no poultices and teas and sech things like cupping-horns neither!

Us Cherokee slaves seen lots of green corn shootings and de like of dat, but we never had no
games of our own. We was too tired when we come in to play any games. We had to have a pass
to go any place to have singing or praying, and den they was always a bunch of patrollers around
to watch everything we done. Dey would come up in a bunch of about nine men on horses, and
look at all our passes, and if a negro didn't have no pass dey wore him out good and made him
go home. Dey didn't let us have much enjoyment.

Right after de War de Cherokees that had been wid the South kind of pestered the freedmen some,
but I was so small dey never bothered me; jest de grown ones. Old Master and Mistress kept
on asking me did de night riders persecute me any but dey never did. Dey told me some of dem
was bad on negroes but I never did see none of dem night riding like some said dey did.

Old Master had some kind of business in Fort Smith, I think, 'cause he used to ride in to dat
town 'bout every day on his horse. He would start at de crack of daylight and not git home
till way after dark. When he get home he call my uncle in and ask about what we done all day
and tell him what we better do de next day. My uncle Joe was de slave boss and he tell us what
de Master say do.

When dat Civil War come along I was a pretty big boy and I 'remember it good as anybody. Uncle
Joe tell us all to lay low and work hard and nobody bother us, and he would look after us.
He sure stood good with de Cherokee neighbors we had, and dey all liked him. There was Mr.
Jim Collins, and Mr. Bell, and Mr. Dave Franklin, and Mr. Jim Sutton and Mr. Blackburn that
lived around close to us and dey all had slaves. Dey was all wid the South, but dey was a lot
of dem Pin Indians all up on de Illinois River and dey was wid de North and dey taken it out
on de slave owners a lot before de War and during it too.

Dey would come in de night and hamstring de horses and maybe set fire to de barn, and two of
'em named Joab Scarrel and Tom Starr killed my pappy one night just before de War broke out.

I don't know what dey done it for, only to be mean, and I guess they was drunk.

Them Pins was after Master all de time for a while at de first of de War, and he was afraid
to ride into Fort Smith much. Dey come to de house one time when he was gone to Fort Smith
and us children told dem he was at Honey Springs, but they knowed better and when he got home
he said somebody shot at him and bushwhacked him all the way from Wilson's Rock to dem Wildhorse
Mountains, but he run his horse like de devil was setting on his tail and dey never did hit
him. He never seen them neither. We told him 'bout de Pins coming for him and he just laughed.

When de War come old Master seen he was going into trouble and he sold off most of de slaves.
In de second year of de War he sold my mammy and my aunt dat was Uncle Joe's wife and my two
brothers and my little sister. Mammy went to a mean old man named Peper Goodman and he took
her off down de river, and pretty soon Mistress tell me she died 'cause she can't stand de
rough treatment.

When Mammy went old Mistress took me to de Big House to help her, and she was kind to me like
I was part of her own family. I never forget when they sold off some more negroes at de same
time, too, and put dem all in a pen for de trader to come and look at.

He never come until the next day, so dey had to sleep in dat pen in a pile like hogs.

It wasn't my Master done dat. He done already sold 'em to a man and it was dat man was waiting
for de trader. It made my Master mad, but dey didn't belong to him no more and he couldn't
say nothing.

The man put dem on a block and sold 'em to a man dat had come in on a steamboat, and he took
dem off on it when de freshet come down and de boat could go back to Fort Smith. It was tied
up at de dock at Webber's Falls about a week and we went down and talked to my aunt and brothers
and sister. De brothers was Sam and Eli. Old Mistress cried jest like any of de rest of us
when de boat pull out with dem on it.

Pretty soon all de young Cherokee menfolks all gone off to de War, and de Pins was riding 'round
all de time, and it aint safe to be in dat part around Webber's Falls, so old Master take us
all to Fort Smith where they was a lot of Confederate soldiers.

We camp at dat place a while and old Mistress stay in de town wid some kinfolks. Den old Master
get three wagons and ox teams and take us all way down on Red River in de Choctaw Nation.

We went by Webber's Falls and filled de wagons. We left de furniture and only took grub and
tools and bedding and clothes, 'cause they wasn't very big wagons and was only single-yoke.

We went on a place in de Red River bottoms close to Shawneetown and not far from de place where
all de wagons crossed over to go into Texas. We was at dat place two years and made two little
crops.

One night a runaway negro come across from Texas and he had de blood hounds after him. His
britches was all muddy and tore where de hounds had cut him up in de legs when he clumb a tree
in de bottoms. He come to our house and Mistress said for us negroes to give him something
to eat and we did.

Then up come de man from Texas with de hounds and wid him was young Mr. Joe Vann and my uncle
that belong to young Joe. Dey called young Mr. Joe "Little Joe Vann" even after he was grown
on account of when he was a little boy before his pappy was killed. His pappy was old Captain
"Rich Joe" Vann, and he been dead ever since long before de War. My uncle belong to old Captain
Joe nearly all his life.

Mistress try to get de man to tell her who de negro belong to so she can buy him, but de man
say he can't sell him and he take him on back to Texas wid a chain around his two ankles. Dat
was one poor negro dat never got away to de North, and I was sorry for him 'cause I know he
must have had a mean master, but none of us Sheppard negroes, I mean the grown ones, tried
to git away.

I never seen any fighting in de War, but I seen soldiers in de South army doing a lot of blacksmithing
'long side de road one day. Dey was fixing wagons and shoeing horses.

After de War was over, old Master tell me I am free but he will look out after me 'cause I
am just a little negro and I aint got no sense. I know he is right, too.

Well, I go ahead and make me a crop of corn all by myself and then I don't know what to do
wid it. I was afraid I would get cheated out of it 'cause I can't figure and read, so I tell
old Master about it and he bought it off'n me.

We never had no school in slavery and it was agin the law for anybody to even show a negro
de letters and figures, so no Cherokee slave could read.

We all come back to de old place and find de negro cabins and barns burned down and de fences
all gone and de field in crab grass and cockleburrs. But de Big House aint hurt 'cepting it
need a new roof. De furniture is all gone, and some said de soldiers burned it up for firewood.
Some officers stayed in de house for a while and tore everything up or took it off.

Master give me over to de National Freedmen's Bureau and I was bound out to a Cherokee woman
name Lizzie McGee. Then one day one of my uncles named Wash Sheppard come and tried to git
me to go live wid him. He say he wanted to git de family all together agin.

He had run off after he was sold and joined de North army and discharged at Fort Scott in Kansas,
and he said lots of freedmen was living close to each other up by Coffeyville in de Coo-ee-scoo-ee
District.

I wouldn't go, so he sent Isaac and Joe Vann dat had been two of old Captain Joe's negroes
to talk to me. Isaac had been Young Joe's driver, and he told me all about how rich Master
Joe was and how he would look after us negroes. Dey kept after me 'bout a year, but I didn't
go anyways.

But later on I got a freedman's allotment up in dat part close to Coffeyville, and I lived
in Coffeyville a while but I didn't like it in Kansas.

I lost my land trying to live honest and pay my debts. I raised eleven children just on de
sweat of my hands and none of dem ever tasted anything dat was stole.

When I left Mrs. McGee's I worked about three years for Mr. Sterling Scott and Mr. Roddy Reese.
Mr. Reese had a big flock of peafowls dat had belonged to Mr. Scott and I had to take care of dem.

Whitefolks, I would have to tromp seven miles to Mr. Scott's house two or three times a week
to bring back some old peafowl dat had got out and gone back to de old place!

Poor old Master and Mistress only lived a few years after de War. Master went plumb blind after
he move back to Webber's Falls and so he move up on de Illinois River 'bout three miles from
de Arkansas, and there old Mistress take de white swelling and die and den he die pretty soon.
I went to see dem lots of times and they was always glad to see me.

I would stay around about a week and help 'em, and dey would try to git me to take something
but I never would. Dey didn't have much and couldn't make anymore and dem so old. Old Mistress
had inherited some property from her pappy and dey had de slave money and when dey turned everything
into good money after de War dat stuff only come to about six thousand dollars in good money,
she told me. Dat just about lasted 'em through until dey died, I reckon.

By and by I married Nancy Hildebrand what lived on Greenleaf Creek, 'bout four miles northwest
of Gore. She had belonged to Joe Hildebrand and he was kin to old Steve Hildebrand dat owned
de mill on Flint Creek up in de Going Snake District. She was raised up at dat mill, but she
was borned in Tennessee before dey come out to de Nation. Her master was white but he had married
into de Nation and so she got a freedmen's allotment too. She had some land close to Catoosa
and some down on Greenleaf Creek.

We was married at my home in Coffeyville, and she bore me eleven children and then went on
to her reward. A long time ago I came to live wid my daughter Emma here at dis place, but my
wife just died last year. She was eighty three.

I reckon I wasn't cut out on de church pattern, but I raised my children right. We never had
no church in slavery, and no schooling, and you had better not be caught wid a book in your
hand even, so I never did go to church hardly any.

Wife belong to de church and all de children too, and I think all should look after saving
their souls so as to drive de nail in, and den go about de earth spreading kindness and hoeing
de row clean so as to clinch dat nail and make dem safe for Glory.

Of course I hear about Abraham Lincoln and he was a great man, but I was told mostly by my
children when dey come home from school about him. I always think of my old Master as de one
dat freed me, and anyways Abraham Lincoln and none of his North people didn't look after me
and buy my crop right after I was free like old Master did. Dat was de time dat was de hardest
and everything was dark and confusion. My folks didn't know each other in Africa but my old
Mammy told me she was captured by Negro slave hunters over there and brought to some coast
town where the white buyers took her and carried her to America.

She was kinder a young gal then and was sold to some white folks when the boat landed here.
Dunno who they was. The same thing happen to my pappy. Must have been about the same time from
the way they tells it. Maybe they was on the [HW: same] boat, I dunno.

They was traded around and then mammy was sold to William Driver. The plantation was down in
Florida. Another white folks had a plantation close by. Mister Simms was the owner. Bill Simms--that's
the name pappy kept after the War.

Somehow or other mammy and pappy meets 'round the place and the first thing happens they is
in love. That's what mammy say. And the next thing happen is me. They didn't get married. The
Master's say it is alright for them to have a baby. They never gets married, even after the
War. Just jumped the broomstick and goes to living with somebody else I reckon.

Then when I was four year old along come the War and Master Driver takes up his slaves and
leaves the Florida country and goes way out to Texas. Mammy goes along, I goes along, all the
children goes along. I don't remember nothing about the trip but I hears mammy talk about it
when I gets older.

Texas, that was the place, down near Fairfield. That's where I learn to do the chores. But
the work was easy for the Master was kind as old Mammy herself and he never give me no hard
jobs that would wear me down. All the slaves on our place was treated good. All the time. They
didn't whip. The Master feeds all the slaves on good clean foods and lean meats so's they be
strong and healthy.

Master Driver had four children, Mary, Julia, Frank and George. Every one of them children
kind and good just the old Master. They was never mean and could I find some of 'em now hard
times would leave me on the run! They'd help this old man get catched up on his eating!

Makes me think of the old song we use to sing:

    Don't mind working from Sun to Sun,
    Iffen you give me my dinner--
    When the dinner time comes!

Nowadays I gets me something to eat when I can catch it. The trouble is sometimes I don't catch!
But that ain't telling about the slave days.

In them times it was mostly the overseers and the drivers who was the mean ones. They caused
all the misery. There was other whitefolks caused troubles too. Sneak around where there was
lots of the black children on the plantation and steal them. Take them poor children away off
and sell them.

There wasn't any Sunday Schooling. There was no place to learn to read and write--no big brick
schools like they is now. The old Master say we can teach ourselves but we can't do it. Old
Elam Bowman owned the place next door to Mister Driver. If he catch his slaves toying with
the pencil, why, he cut off one of their fingers. Then I reckon they lost interest in education
and get their mind back on the hoe and plow like he say for them to do.

I didn't see no fighting during of the War. If they was any Yankees soldiering around the country
I don't remember nothing of it.

Long time after the War is over, about 1885, I meets a gal named Angeline. We courts pretty
fast and gets married. The wedding was a sure enough affair with the preacher saying the words
just like the whitefolks marriage. We is sure married.

The best thing we do after that is raise us a family. One of them old fashioned families. Big
'uns! Seventeen children does we have and twelve of them still living. Wants to know they names?
I ain't never forgets a one! There was Lucy, Bill, Ebbie, Cora, Minnie, George, Frank, Kizzie,
Necie, Andrew, Joe, Sammie, David, Fannie, Jacob, Bob and Myrtle.

All good children. Just like their old pappy who's tried to care for 'em just like the old
Master takes care of their old daddy when he was a boy on that plantation down Texas way.

When the age comes on a man I reckon religion gets kind of meanful. Thinks about it more'n
when he's young and busy in the fields. I believes in the Bible and what it says to do. Some
of the Colored folks takes to the voodoo. I don't believe in it. Neither does I believe in
the fortune telling or charms. I aims to live by the Bible and leave the rabbit foots alone!

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves 10-19-38 718 words

LIZA SMITH Age 91 Muskogee, Oklahoma

Both my mammy and pappy was brought from Africa on a slave boat and sold on de Richmond (Va.)
slave market. What year dey come over I don't know. My mammy was Jane Mason, belonging to Frank
Mason; pappy was Frank Smith, belonging to a master wid de same name. I mean, my pappy took
his Master's name, and den after my folks married mammy took de name of Smith, but she stayed
on wid de Masons and never did belong to my pappy's master. Den, after Frank Mason took all
his slaves out of de Virginia county, mammy met up wid another man, Ben Humphries, and married him.

In Richmond, dat's where I was born, 'bout 1847, de Master said; and dat make me more dan 90-year
old dis good year. I had two brothers named Webb and Norman, a half-brother Charley, and two
half-sisters, Mealey and Ann. Me, I was born a slave and so was my son. His father, Toney,
was one of de Mason slave boys; de Master said I was 'bout 13-year old when de boy was born.

Frank Mason was a young man when de War started, living wid his mother. Dey had lots of slaves,
maybe a hundred, and dey always try to take good care of 'em; even after de War was over he
worried 'bout trying to get us settled so's we wouldn't starve. De Master had overseer, but
dere was no whuppings.

All de way from Richmond to a place dey call Waco, Texas, we traveled by ox-wagon and boats,
and den de Master figures we all be better off over in Arkansas and goes to Pine Bluff.

What wid all de running 'round de slaves was kept clean and always wid plenty to eat and good
clothes to wear. De Master was a plenty rich man and done what his mother, Mrs. Betsy Mason,
told him when we all left de Big Mansion, way back dere in Richmond. De Mistress said, "Frank,
you watch over dem Negroes cause dey's good men and women; keep dem clean!" Dat's what he done,
up until we was freed, and den times was so hard nobody wanted us many Negroes around, and
de work was scarce, too. Hard times! Folks don't know what hard times is.

When a Negro get sick de master would send out for herbs and roots. Den one of de slaves who
knew how to cook and mix 'em up for medicine use would give de doses. All de men and women
wore charms, something like beads, and if dey was any good or not I don't know, but we didn't
have no bad diseases like after dey set us free.

I was at Pine Bluff when de Yankees was shooting all over de place. De fighting got so hot
we all had to leave; dat's the way it was all de time for us during de War--running away to
some place or de next place, and we was all glad when it stopped and we could settle down in
a place.

We was back at Waco when de peace come, but Master Frank was away from home when dat happen.
It was on a Sunday when he got back and called all de slaves up in de yard and counted all
of dem, young and old.

The first thing he said was, "You men and women is all free! I'm going back to my own mammy
in old Virginia, but I ain't going back until all de old people is settled in cabins and de
young folks fix up wid tents!"

Den he kinder stopped talking. Seem now like he was too excited to talk, or maybe he was feeling
bad and worried 'bout what he going to do wid all of us. Pretty soon he said, "You men and
women, can't none of you tell anybody I ain't always been a good master. Old folks, have I
ever treated you mean?" He asked. Everybody shout, "No, sir!" And Master Frank smiled; den
he told us he was going 'round and find places for us to live.

He went to see Jim Tinsley, who owned some slaves, about keeping us. Tinsley said he had cabins
and could fix up tents for extra ones, if his own Negroes was willing to share up with us.
Dat was the way it worked out. We stayed on dere for a while, but times was so hard we finally
get dirty and ragged like all de Tinsley Negroes. But Master Frank figure he done the best
he could for us.

After he go back to Virginia we never hear no more of him, but every day I still pray if he
has any folks in Richmond dey will find me someway before I die. Is dere someway I could find
dem, you s'pose?

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves [Date Stamp: Aug 12 1937]

LOU SMITH Age 83 yrs. Platter, Okla.

Sho', I remembers de slavery days! I was a little gal but I can tell you lots of things about
dem days. My job was nussing de younguns. I took keer of them from daylight to dark. I'd have
to sing them to sleep too.

Sometimes I'd sing:

    "Rock-a-bye baby, in a tree top
    When de wind blows your cradle'll rock.
    When de bough breaks de crad'll fall
    Down comes baby cradle'n all."

My father was Jackson Longacre and he was born in Mississippi. My mother, Caroline, was born
in South Carolina. Both of them was born slaves. My father belonged to Huriah Longacre. He
had a big plantation and lots of niggers. He put up a lot of his slaves as security on a debt
and he took sick and died so they put them all on de block and sold them. My father and his
mother (my grandma) was sold together. My old Mistress bought my grandmother and old Mistress'
sister bought my grandma's sister. These white women agreed that they would never go off so
far that the two slave women couldn't see each other. They allus kept this promise. A Mr. Covington
offered old Master $700 for me when I was about ten years old, but he wouldn't sell me. He
didn't need to for he was rich as cream and my, how good he was to us.

Young Master married Miss Jo Arnold and old Master sent me and my mother over to live with
them. I was small when I was took out of old man McWilliams' yard. It was his wife that bought
my grandmother and my father. My mother's folks had always belonged to his family. They all
moved to Texas and we all lived there until after the surrender.

Miss Jo wasn't a good Mistress and mother and me wasn't happy. When young Master was there
he made her treat us good but when he was gone she made our lives a misery to us. She was what
we called a "low-brow." She never had been used to slaves and she treated us like dogs. She
said us kids didn't need to wear any clothes and one day she told us we could jest take'em
off as it cost too much to clothe us. I was jest a little child but I knowed I oughten to go
without my clothes. We wore little enough as it was. In summer we just wore one garment, a
sort of slip without any sleeves. Well, anyway she made me take off my clothes and I just crept
off and cried. Purty soon young Master come home.

He wanted to know what on earth I was doing without my dress on. I told him, and my goodness,
but he raised the roof. He told her if she didn't treat us better he was going to take us back
to old Master. I never did have any more good times 'cepting when I'd get to go to visit at
old Master's. None of our family could be sold and that was why old Master just loaned us to
young Master. When old Master died, dey put all our names in a hat and all the chilluns draw
out a name. This was done to 'vide us niggers satisfactory. Young Master drawed my mother's
name and they all agreed that I should go with her, so back we went to Miss Jo. She wouldn't
feed us niggers. She'd make me set in a corner like a little dog. I got so hungry and howled
so loud they had to feed me. When the surrender come, I was eleven years old, and they told
us we was free. I ran off and hid in the plum orchard and I said over'n over, "I'se free, I'se
free; I ain't never going back to Miss Jo." My mother come out and got me and in a few days
my father came and lived with us. He worked for young Master and the crops was divided with
him. Miss Jo died and we lived on there. My mother took over the charge of the house and the
chillun for young Master and we was all purty happy after that.

They was a white man come into our settlement and bought a plantation and some slaves. My,
but he treated them bad. He owned a boy about fifteen years old. One day he sent him on a errand.
On the way home he got off his mule and set down in the shade of a tree to rest. He fell asleep
and the mule went home. When he woke up he was scared to go home and he stayed out in de woods
for several days. Finally they caught him and took him home and his master beat him nearly
to death. He then dug a hole and put him in it and piled corn shucks all around him. This nearly
killed him 'cause his body was cut up so with the whip. One of the niggers slipped off and
went to the jining plantation and told about the way the boy was being treated and a bunch
of white men came over and made him take the child out and doctor his wounds. This man lived
there about ten years and he was so mean to his slaves 'til all the white men round who owned
niggers finally went to him and told him they would just give him so long to sell out and leave.
They made him sell his slaves to people there in the community, and he went back north.

My mother told me that he owned a woman who was the mother of several chillun and when her
babies would get about a year or two of age he'd sell them and it would break her heart. She
never got to keep them. When her fourth baby was born and was about two months old she just
studied all the time about how she would have to give it up and one day she said, "I just decided
I'm not going to let old Master sell this baby; he just ain't going to do it." She got up and
give it something out of a bottle and purty soon it was dead. 'Course didn't nobody tell on
her or he'd of beat her nearly to death. There wasn't many folks that was mean to their slaves.

Old Master's boys played with the nigger boys all the time. They'd go swimming, fishing and
hunting together. One of his boys name was Robert but everybody called him Bud. They all would
catch rabbits and mark them and turn them loose. One day a boy come along with a rabbit he
had caught in a trap. Old Master's boy noticed that it had Bud's mark on it and they made him
turn it loose.

Old Master was his own overseer, but my daddy was the overlooker. He was purty hard on them
too, as they had to work just like they never got tired. The women had to do housework, spinning,
sewing and work in the fields too. My mother was housewoman and she could keep herself looking
nice. My, she went around with her hair and clothes all Jenny-Lynned-up all the time until
we went to live with Miss Jo. She took all the spirit out of poor mother and me too.

I remember she allus kept our cabin as clean and neat as a pin. When other niggers come to
visit her they would say, "My you are Buckry Niggers (meaning we tried to live like white folks)."

I love to think of when we lived with old Master. We had a good time. Our cabin was nice and
had a chimbley in it. Mother would cook and serve our breakfast at home every morning and dinner
and supper on Sundays. We'd have biscuit every Sunday morning for our breakfast. That was something
to look forward to.

We all went to church every Sunday. We would go to the white folks church in the morning and
to our church in the evening. Bill McWilliams, old Master's oldest boy, didn't take much stock
in church. He owned a nigger named Bird, who preached for us. Bill said, "Bird, you can't preach,
you can't read, how on earth can you get a text out of the Bible when you can't even read?
How'n hell can a man preach that don't know nothing?" Bird told him the Lord had called him
to preach and he'd put the things in his mouth that he ought to say. One night Bill went to
church and Bird preached the hair-raisingest sermon you ever heard. Bill told him all right
to go and preach, and he gave Bird a horse and set him free to go anywhere he wanted to and preach.

Old Master and old Mistress lived in grand style. Bob was the driver of their carriage. My,
but he was always slick and shiny. He'd set up in front with his white shirt and black clothes.
He looked like a black martin (bird) with a white breast. The nurse set in the back with the
chillun. Old Master and Mistress set together in the front seat.

Old Master and Mistress would come down to the quarters to eat Christmas dinners sometimes
and also birthday dinners. It was sho' a big day when they done that. They'd eat first, and
the niggers would sing and dance to entertain them. Old Master would walk 'round through the
quarters talking to the ones that was sick or too old to work. He was awful kind. I never knowed
him to whip much. Once he whipped a woman for stealing. She and mother had to spin and weave.
She couldn't or didn't work as fast as Ma and wouldn't have as much to show for her days work.
She'd steal hanks of Ma's thread so she couldn't do more work than she did. She'd also steal
old Master's tobacco. He caught up with her and whipped her.

I never saw any niggers on the block but I remember once they had a sale in town and I seen
them pass our house in gangs, the little ones in wagons and others walking. I've seen slaves
who run away from their masters and they'd have to work in the field with a big ball and chain
on their leg. They'd hoe out to the end of the chain and then drag it up a piece and hoe on
to the end of the row.

Times was awful hard during the War. We actually suffered for some salt. We'd go to the smoke
house where meat had been salted down for years, dig a hole in the ground and fill it with
water. After it would stand for a while we'd dip the water up carefully and strain it and cook
our food in it. We parched corn and meal for coffee. We used syrup for sugar. Some folks parched
okra for coffee. When the War was over you'd see men, women and chillun walk out of their cabins
with a bundle under their arms. All going by in droves, just going nowhere in particular. My
mother and father didn't join them; we stayed on at the plantation. I run off and got married
when I was twenty. Ma never did want me to get married. My husband died five years ago. I never
had no chillun.

I reckon I'm a mite superstitious. If a man comes to your house first on New Years you will
have good luck; if a woman is your first visitor you'll have bad luck. When I was a young woman
I knowed I'd be left alone in my old age. I seen it in my sleep. I dreamed I spit every tooth
in my head right out in my hand and something tell me I would be a widow. That's a bad thing
to dream about, losing your teeth.

Once my sister was at my house. She had a little baby and we was setting on the porch. They
was a big pine tree in front of the house, and we seen something that looked like a big bird
light in the tree. She begun to cry and say that's a sign my baby is going to die. Sho' nuff
it just lived two weeks. Another time a big owl lit in a tree near a house and we heard it
holler. The baby died that night. It was already sick, we's setting up with it.

I don't know where they's hants or not but I'se sho heard things I couldn't see.

We allus has made our own medicines. We used herbs and roots. If you'll take poke root and
cut it in small pieces and string it and put it 'round a baby's neck it will cut teeth easy.
A tea made out of dog fennel or corn shucks will cure chills and malaria. It'll make 'em throw
up. We used to take button snake root, black snake root, chips of anvil iron and whiskey and
make a tonic to cure consumption. It would cure it too. Our owner was Dr. John Southall, an
old man. Father always belonged to him but he bought my mother when she was a young girl and
raised her. She never knew anything 'bout her people but my father's mother lived with us in
de quarter's at Master Southall's. Master John never sold any of his slaves.

We was known as "Free Niggers." Master said he didn't believe it was right to own human beings
just because dey was black, and he freed all his slaves long before de War. He give 'em all
freedom papers and told dem dat dey was as free as he was and could go anywhere dey wanted.
Dey didn't have no where to go so we all stayed on wid him. It was nice though to know we could
go where we pleased 'thout having to get a pass and could come back when we pleased even if
we didn't take advantage of it.

He told his slaves dat dey could stay on at his farm but dey would have to work and make a
living for deyselves and families. Old Master managed de farm and bought all de food and clothes
for us all. Everybody had to work, but dey had a good time.

We had good clothes, plenty of food and good cabins. We had what was known as Georgia bedsteads.
Dey was wooden bedsteads wid holes bored in de side pieces and in de foot and head-boards.
Ropes was laced back and forth across and this took de place of both slats and springs. De
ropes would git loose and we had what was called a "following-pin" to tighten 'em wid. We'd
take a block of wood wid a notch in it and catch de rope and hold it till de following-pin
could be driven in and den we'd twist de ropes tight again. We had grass or cotton beds and
we slept good, too.

We had tin plates but no knives or forks so we et with our fingers. Old Master was a doctor
and we had good attention when we was sick. We had no wish to take advantage of our freedom
for we was a lot better off even than we is now and we knowed it. We never had to worry about
anything.

De quarters was about a half mile from de "Big House" as we called Master John's house. It
really wasn't such a big house as it had only four or five rooms in it. It was a common boxed
house, painted white and wid a long gallery across de front. Maybe it was de gallery dat made
it look so big to us. We liked to set on de steps at night and listen to Master John talk and
to hear old Mistress and de girls sing. Sometimes we'd join in wid dem and fairly make de woods
ring. Everybody thought dey was crazy to let us have so much freedom but dey wasn't nothing
any of us black folks wouldn't a-done for that family.

He never employed any overseers as he done his own overseeing. He'd tell de older hands what
he wanted done and dey would see it was done. We was never punished. Just iffen dey didn't
work dey didn't have nothing to eat and wear and de hands what did work wouldn't divide wid
'em iffen dey didn't work. Old Master sho' was wise fer he knowed iffen we was ever set free
dat we would have to work and he sure didn't bide no laziness in his hands. Dey got up 'bout
four o'clock in de morning and was at work as soon as dey could see. Dey would work and sing
as happy as you please.

We used to hear stories 'bout how slaves was punished but we never saw any of it. Dey would
punish 'em by whupping 'em or by making 'em stand on one foot for a long time, tie 'em up by
de thumbs as high as dey could reach and by making 'em do hard tasks and by going without food
for two-three days.

Niggers was very religious and dey had church often. Dey would annoy de white folks wid shouting
and singing and praying and dey would take cooking pots and put over dey mouths so de white
folks couldn't hear 'em. Dey would dig holes in de ground too, and lie down when dey prayed.

Old Master let us have church in de homes. We had prayer-meeting every Wednesday night. All
our cullud preachers could read de Bible. He let dem teach us how to read iffen we wanted to learn.

In de evening when we was through wid our work dey would gather at one of de cabins and visit
and sing or dance. We'd pop corn, eat walnuts, peanuts, hickory nuts, and tell ghost stories.
We didn't have any music instruments so de music we danced by wasn't so very good. Everybody
sang and one or two would beat on tin pans or beat bones together.

Us boys played marbles. I got to be a professional. I could hit de middler ever time. We made
a square and put a marble in each corner and one in de middle and got off several feet from
de ring and shot at de marbles. Iffen you hit de middler you got de game. I could beat 'em all.

Old Master kept us through de War. We saw Yankee soldiers come through in droves lak Coxsey's
Army. We wasn't afraid for ourselves but we was afraid dey would catch old Master or one of
de boys when dey would come home on a furlough. We'd hep 'em git away and just swear dat dey
hadn't been home a-tall.

After de war we stayed until old Master died. It broke us all up for we knowed we had lost
de best friend dat we ever had or ever would have. He was a sort of father to all of us. Old
Mistress went to live with her daughter and we started wandering 'round. Some folks from de
North come down and made de cullud folks move on. I guess dey was afraid dat we'd hep our masters
rebuild dey homes again. We lived in a sort of bondage for a long time.

De white folks in de South as well as de cullud folks lost de best friend dey had when Abe
Lincoln was killed. He was God's man and it was a great loss when he died.

God created us all free and equal. Somewhere along de road we lost out.

Cullud folks would have been better off iffen dey had been left alone in Africa. We'd a-had
better opportunities. We should have some compensation fer what we have suffered. Yes, we could
be sent back and we'd like it if dey would help us to get started out again. Dat's where our
forefathers come from.

I learned a long time ago dat dey was nothing to charms. How could a rabbit's foot bring me
good luck? De Bible teaches me better'n dat. I believes in dreams though. I've seen de end
of time in my dreams. Saw de great trouble we going through right now, years ago in a dream.
It's clear in my mind how de world is coming to a end.

I believe all Christians should all join up together as dat makes 'em stronger. I believe in
praying fer what we want and need. I'm a licensed preacher in de Baptist church. I've been
a member for forty years but have just been a licensed preacher about ten years.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

BEAUREGARD TENNEYSON Age 87 yrs. West Tulsa, Okla.

My mother and father just about stocked Jess Tenneyson's plantation with slaves. That's a fact.
The old folks had one big family--twenty-three Children was the number. With the old folks
that make twenty-five (there were only five more slaves), so I reckon they done mighty well
by Master Jess.

The Master done well by them, too. Master Jess and Mistress Lula was Christian peoples. They
raised their two sons, Henry and George, the same way.

There was so many of us children I don't remember all the names. Three of the boys was named
after good southern gentlemen who soldiered in the War. Price, Lee and Beaugard. Beaugard is
me. Proud of that name just like I'm proud of the Master's name.

My folks named Patrick and Harriett. Mother worked round the house And father was the field
boss. They was close by the Master all the time.

The plantation was down in Craig County, Texas. Nine hundred acre it was. They raise everything,
but mostly corn and cotton. Big times when come the harvest. Master fix up a cotton gin right
on the place. It was an old-fashioned press. Six horses run it with two boys tromping down
the cotton with their feets.

In the fall time was the best of all. Come cotton picking time, all the master from miles around
send in their best pickers--and how they'd work, sometimes pick the whole crop in one day!
The one who picked the most win a prize. Then come noon and the big feast, and at night come
the dancing.

Something like that when the corn was ready. All the folks have the biggest time. Log rollings.
Clearing the new ground for planting. Cutting the trees, burning the bresh, making ready for
the plow. The best worker wins hisself a prize at these log rollings, too.

Them kind of good times makes me think of Christmas. Didn't have no Christmas tree, but they
set up a long pine table in the house and that plank table was covered with presents and none
of the Negroes was ever forgot on that day.

Master Jess didn't work his slaves like other white folks done. Wasn't no four o'clock wake-up
horns and the field work started at seven o'clock. Quitting time was five o'clock--just about
union hours nowadays. The Master believed in plenty of rest for the slaves and they work better
that way, too.

One of my brother took care of the Master's horse while on the plantation. When the Master
join in with rebels that horse went along. So did brother. Master need them both and my brother
mighty pleased when he get to go.

When Master come back from the War and tell us that brother is dead, he said brother was the
best boy in all the army.

The Tenneyson slaves wasn't bothered with patrollers, neither the Klan. The Master said we
was all good Negroes--nobody going to bother a good Negro.

We was taught to work and have good manners. And to be honest. Just doing them three things
will keep anybody out of trouble.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

WILLIAM WALTERS Age 85 yrs. Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Mammy Ann (that was my mother) was owned by Mistress Betsy, and lived on the Bradford plantation
in Relsford County, Tennessee, when I was born in 1852.

My daddy, Jim Walters, then lived in Nashville, where my mammy carried me when she ran away
from the Mistress after the Rebs and Yanks started to fight. My daddy died in Nashville in 1875.

We were runaway slaves. The slipper-offers were often captured, but Mammy Ann and her little
boy William (that's me) escaped the sharp eyes of the patrollers and found refuge with a family
of northern symphatizers living in Nashville.

Nashville was a fort town, filled with trenches and barricades. Right across the road from
where we stayed was a vacant block used by the Rebs as an emergency place for treating the wounded.

I remember the boom of cannons one whole day, and I heard the rumble of army wagons as they
crossed through the town. But there was nothing to see as the fog of powder smoke became thicker
with every blast of Sesesh cannon.

When the smoke fog cleared away I watched the wounded being carried to the clearing across
the road--fighting men with arms shot off, legs gone, faces blood smeared--some of them just
laying there cussing God and Man with their dying breath!

Those were awful times. Yet I have heard many of the older Negroes say the old days were better.

Such talk always seemed to me but an expression of sentiment for some good old master, or else
the older Negroes were just too handicapped with ignorance to recognize the benefits of liberty
or the opportunities of freedom.

But I've always been proud of my freedom, and proud of my old mother who faced death for her
freedom and mine when she escaped from the Bradford plantation a long time before freedom came
to the Negro race as a whole.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves 570 words 10-19-1938

MARY FRANCES WEBB Grand daughter of Sarah Vest, aged 92, (deceased) McAlester, Okla.

I've heard my grandmother tell a lot of her experiences during slavery. She remembered things
well as she was a grown woman at the time of the War of the Rebellion.

Her home was at Sedalia, Mo., and her owner was Baxter West, a prominent farmer and politician.
He was very kind and good to his slaves. He provided them with plenty of food and good clothes.
He would go to town and buy six or eight bolts of cloth at a time and the women could pick
out two dresses apiece off it. These would be their dresses for dressing up. They wove the
cloth for their everyday clothes.

The men wore jeans suits in winter. He bought shoes for all his slaves, young and old. He had
about twenty slaves counting the children.

My grandmother was a field hand. She plowed and hoed the crops in the summer and spring, and
in the winter she sawed and cut cord wood just like a man. She said it didn't hurt her as she
was as strong as an ox.

She could spin and weave and sew. She helped make all the cloth for their clothes and in the
spring one of the jobs for the women was to weave hats for the men. They used oat-straw, grass,
and cane which had been split and dried and soaked in hot water until it was pliant, and they
wove it into hats. The women wore a cloth tied around their head.

They didn't have many matches so they always kept a log heap burning to keep a fire. It was
a common thing for a neighbor to come in to borrow a coal of fire as their fire had died out.

On wash days all the neighbors would send several of their women to the creek to do the family
wash. They all had a regular picnic of it as they would wash and spread the clothes on the
bushes and low branches of the trees to dry. They would get to spend the day together.

They had no tubs or wash boards. They had a large flat block of wood and a wooden paddle. They'd
spread the wet garment on the block, spread soap on it and paddle the garment till it was clean.
They would rinse the clothes in the creek. Their soap was made from lye, dripped from ashes,
and meat scraps.

The slaves had no lamps in their cabins. In winter they would pile wood on the fire in their
fireplace and have the light from the fire.

The colored men went with their master to the army. They made regular soldiers and endured
the same hardships that the white soldiers did. They told of one battle when so many men were
killed that a little stream seemed to be running pure blood as the water was so bloody.

After the war the slaves returned home with their masters and some of the older ones stayed
on with them and helped them to rebuild their farms. None of them seemed to think it strange
that they had been fighting on the wrong side in the army as they were following their white folks.

Those who stayed with their old master were taught to read and write and were taught to handle
their own business and to help themselves in every way possible to take their place in life.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves 10-14-37 [Date stamp: NOV 5 1937]

EASTER WELLS Age 83 Colbert, Okla.

I was born in Arkansas, in 1854, but we moved to Texas in 1855. I've heard 'em tell about de
trip to Texas. De grown folks rode in wagons and carts but de chaps all walked dat was big
enuff. De men walked and toted their guns and hunted all de way. Dey had plenty of fresh game
to eat.

My mother's name was Nellie Bell. I had one sister, Liza. I never saw my father; in fact, I
never heard my mammy say anything about him and I don't guess I ever asked her anything about
him for I never thought anything about not having a father. I guess he belonged to another
family and when we moved away he was left behind and he didn't try to find us after de War.

My mammy and my sister and me belonged to young Master Jason Bell. We was his onliest slaves
and as he wasn't married and lived at home wid his parents we was worked and bossed by his
father, Cap'n William Bell and his wife, Miss Mary.

After we moved to Texas, old Master built a big double log house, weather-boarded on de inside
and out. It was painted white. Dey was three rooms on each side of de hall and a wide gallery
across de back. De kitchen set back from de house and dey was a board walk leading to it. Vines
was planted 'round de gallery and on each side of de walk in de summer time. De house was on
a hill and set back from de big road about a quarter of a mile and dey was big oak and pine
trees all 'round de yard. We had purty flowers, too.

We had good quarters. Dey was log cabins, but de logs was peeled and square-adzed and put together
with white plaster and had shuttered windows and pine floors. Our furniture was home made but
it was good and made our cabins comfortable.

Old Master give us our allowance of staple food and it had to run us, too. We could raise our
own gardens and in dat way we had purty plenty to eat. Dey took good care of us sick or well
and old Mistress was awful good to us.

My mammy was de cook. I remember old Master had some purty strict rules and one of 'em was
iffen you burnt de bread you had to eat it. One day mammy burnt de bread. She was awful busy
and forgot it and it burnt purty bad. She knowed dat old Master would be mad and she'd be punished
so she got some grub and her bonnet and she lit out. She hid in de woods and cane brakes for
two weeks and dey couldn't find her either. One of de women slipped food out to her. Finally
she come home and old Master give her a whipping but he didn't hurt her none. He was glad to
git her back. She told us dat she could'a slipped off to de North but she didn't want to leave
us children. She was afraid young Master would be mad and sell us and we'd a-had a hard time
so she come back. I don't know whether she ever burnt de bread any more or not.

Once one of de men got his 'lowance and he decided he'd have de meat all cooked at once so
he come to our cabin and got mammy to cook it for him. She cooked it and he took it home. One
day he was at work and a dog got in and et de meat all up. He didn't have much food for de
rest of de week. He had to make out wid parched corn.

We all kept parched corn all de time and went 'round eating it. It was good to fill you up
iffen you was hungry and was nourishing, too.

When de niggers cooked in dere own cabins dey put de food in a sort of tray or trough and everybody
et together. Dey didn't have no dishes. We allus ate at de Big House as mammy had to do de
cooking for de family.

I never had to work hard as old Master wanted us to grow up strong. He'd have mammy boil Jerusalem
Oak and make a tea for us to drink to cure us of worms and we'd run races and get exercise
so we would be healthy.

Old Mistress and old Master had three children. Dey was two children dead between Master Jason
and Miss Jane. Dey was a little girl 'bout my age, named Arline. We played together all de
time. We used to set on de steps at night and old Mistress would tell us about de stars. She'd
tell us and show us de Big Dipper, Little Dipper, Milky Way, Ellen's Yard, Job's Coffin, and
de Seven Sisters. I can show 'em to you and tell you all about 'em yet.

I scared Arline and made her fall and break her leg twice. One time we was on de porch after
dark one night and I told her dat I heard something and I made like I could see it and she
couldn't so she got scared and run and hung her toe in a crack and fell off de high porch and
broke her leg. Another time while de War was going on we was dressed up in long dresses playing
grown-ups. We had playhouses under some big castor-bean bushes. We climbed up on de fence and
jest for fun I told her dat I seen some Yankees coming. She started to run and got tangled
up in her long dress and fell and broke her leg again. It nigh broke my heart for I loved her
and she loved me and she didn't tell on me either time. I used to visit her after she was married
and we'd sure have a good visit talking 'bout de things we used to do. We was separated when
we was about fifteen and didn't see [HW: each] other any more till we was both married and
had children. I went to visit her at Bryant, Brazos County, Texas and I ain't seen her since.
I don't know whether she is still living or not.

I 'members hearing a man say dat once he was a nigger trader. He'd buy and trade or sell 'em
like they was stock. He become a Christian and never sold any more.

Our young Master went to de War and got wounded and come home and died. Old Master den took
full charge of us and when de War ended he kept us because he said we didn't have no folks
and he said as our owner was dead we wasn't free. Mother died about a year after de War, and
some white folks took my sister but I was afraid to go. Old Master told me iffen I left him
he would cut my ears off end I'd starve and I don't know what all he did tell me he'd do. I
must a-been a fool but I was afraid to try it.

I had so much work to do and I never did git to go anywhere. I reckon he was afraid to let
me go off de place for fear some one would tell me what a fool I was, so I never did git to
go anywhere but had to work all de time. I was de only one to work and old Mistress and de
girls never had done no work and didn't know much about it. I had a harder time den when we
was slaves.

I got to wanting to see my sister so I made up my mind to run off. One of old Master's motherless
nephews lived with him and I got him to go with me one night to the potato bank and I got me
a lap full of potatoes to eat so I wouldn't starve like old Master said I would. Dis white
boy went nearly to a house where some white folks lived. I went to de house and told 'em I
wanted to go to where my sister was and dey let me stay fer a few days and sent me on to my sister.

I saw old Master lots of times after I run away but he wasn't mad at me. I heard him tell de
white folks dat I lived wid dat he raised me and I sure wouldn't steal nor tell a lie. I used
to steal brown sugar lumps when mammy would be cooking but he didn't know 'bout dat.

On holidays we used to allus have big dinners, 'specially on Christmas, and we allus had egg-nog.

We allus had hog-jowl and peas on New Years Day 'cause iffen you'd have dat on New Years Day
you'd have good luck all de year.

Iffen you have money on New Years' Day you will have money all de year.

My husband, Lewis Wells, lived to be one-hundred and seven years old. He died five years ago.
He could see witches, spirits and ghosts but I never could. Dere are a few things dat I've
noticed and dey never fail.

Dogs howling and scritch owls hollering is allus a warning. My mother was sick and we didn't
think she was much sick. A dog howled and howled right outside de house. Old Master say, "Nellie
gonna die." Sure nuff she died dat night.

Another time a gentle old mule we had got after de children and run 'em to do house and den
he lay down and wallow and wallow. One of our children was dead 'fore a week.

One of our neighbors say his dog been gone 'bout a week. He was walking and met de dog and
it lay down and stretch out on de ground and measure a grave wid his body. He made him git
up and he went home jest as fast as he could. When he got dere one of his children was dead.

Iffen my left eye quiver I know I'm gwineter cry and iffen both my eyes quiver I know I gwinter
laugh till I cry. I don't like for my eyes to quiver.

We has allus made our own medicine. Iffen we hadn't we never could astood de chills and fevers.
We made a tea out'n bitter weeds and bathed in it to cure malaria. We also made bread pills
and soaked 'em in dis tea and swallowed 'em. After bathing in dis tea we'd go to bed and kiver
up and sweat de malaria out.

Horse mint and palm of crystal (Castor-bean) and bullnettle root boiled together will make
a cure fer swelling. Jest bathe de swollen part in dis hot tea.

Anvil dust and apple vinegar will cure dropsy. One tea cup of anvil dust to a quart of vinegar.
Shake up well and bathe in it. It sure will cure de worse kind of a case.

God worked through Abraham Lincoln and he answered de prayers of dem dat was wearing de burden
of slavery. We cullud folks all love and honor Abraham Lincoln's memory and don't you think
we ought to?

I love to hear good singing. My favorite songs are: "Am I A Soldier Of The Cross", an "How
Can I Live In Sin and Doubt My Savior's Love." I belongs to de Baptist church.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves Revision of story sent in 8-13-37.

JOHN WHITE Age 121 years Sand Springs, Okla.

Of all my Mammy's children I am the first born and the longest living. The others all gone
to join Mammy. She was named Mary White, the same name as her Mistress, the wife of my first
master, James White.

About my pappy. I never hear his name and I never see him, not even when I was the least child
around the old Master's place 'way back there in Georgia more'n one-hundred twenty years ago!

Mammy try to make it clear to me about my daddy. She married like the most of the slaves in
them days.

He was a slave on another plantation. One day he come for to borrow something from Master White.
He sees a likely looking gal, and the way it work out that gal was to be my Mammy. After that
he got a paper saying it was all right for him to be off his own plantation. He come a'courting
over to Master White's. After a while he talks with the Master. Says he wants to marry the
gal, Mary. The Master says it's all right if it's all right with Mary and the other white folks.
He finds out it is and they makes ready for the wedding.

Mary says a preacher wedding is the best but Master say he can marry them just as good. There
wasn't no Bible, just an old Almanac. Master White read something out of that. That's all and
they was married. The wedding was over!

Every night he gets a leave paper from his Master and come over to be with his wife, Mary.
The next morning he leaves her to work in the fields. Then one night Mammy says he don't come
home. The next night is the same, and the next. From then on Mammy don't see him no more--never
find out what happen to my pappy.

When I was born Mammy named me John, John White. She tells me I was the blackest 'white' boy
she ever see. I stays with her till I was eleven year old. The Master wrote down in the book
when I was born, April 10, 1816, and I know it's right. Mammy told me so, and Master told me
when I was eleven and he sold me to Sarah Davenport.

Mistress Sarah lived in Texas. Master White always selling and trading to folks all over the
country. I hates to leave on account of Mammy and the good way Master White fared the slaves--they
was good people. Mammy cry but I has to go just the same. The tears are on my face a long time
after the leaving. I was hoping all the time to see Mammy again, but that's the last time.

We travels and travels on the stage coach. Once we cross the Big River (Mississippi) on the
boat and pick up with the horses on the other side. A new outfit and we rides some more. Seems
like we going to wear out all the horses before we gets to the place.

The Davenport plantation was way north of Linden, Texas, up in the Red River country. That's
where I stayed for thirty-eight year. There I was drug through the hackles by the meanest master
that ever lived. The Mistress was the best white woman I ever knew but Master Presley used
his whip all the time, reason or no reason, and I got scars to remember by!

I remembers the house. A heavy log house with a gallery clear across the front. The kitchen
was back of the house. I work in there and I live in there. It wasn't built so good as the
Master's house. The cold winds in the winter go through the cracks between the logs like the
walls was somewheres else, and I shivers with the misery all the time.

The cooking got to be my job. The washing too. Washday come around and I fills the tub with
clothes. Puts the tub on my head and walks half a mile to the spring where I washes the clothes.
Sometimes I run out of soap. Then I make ash soap right by the spring. I learns to be careful
about streaks in the clothes. I learns by the bull whip. One day the Master finds a soapy streak
in his shirt. Then he finds me.

The Military Road goes by the place and the Master drives me down the road and ties me to a
tree. First he tears off the old shirt and then he throws the bull whip to me. When he is tired
of beating me more torture is a-coming. The salt water cure. It don't cure nothing but that's
what the white folks called it. "Here's at you," the Master say, and slap the salt water into
the bleeding cuts. "Here's at you!" The blisters burst every time he slap me with the brine.

Then I was loosened to stagger back into the kitchen. The Mistress couldn't do nothing about
it 'cept to lay on the grease thick, with a kind word to help stop the misery.

Ration time was Saturday night. Every slave get enough fat pork, corn meal and such to last
out the week. I reckon the Master figure it to the last bite because they was no leavings over.
Most likely the shortage catch them!

Sometimes they'd borrow, sometimes I'd slip somethings from out the kitchen. The single women
folks was bad that way. I favors them with something extra from the kitchen. Then they favors
me--at night when the overseer thinks everybody asleep in they own places!

I was always back to my kitchen bed long before the overseer give the get-up-knock. I hear
the knock, he hear me answer. Then he blow the horn and shout the loud call, ARE YOU UP, and
everybody know it was four o'clock and pour out of the cabins ready for the chores.

Sometimes the white folks go around the slave quarters for the night. Not on the Davenport
plantation, but some others close around. The slaves talked about it amongst themselves.

After a while they'd be a new baby. Yellow. When the child got old enough for chore work the
master would sell him (or her). No difference was it his own flesh and blood--if the price
was right!

I traffic with lots of the women, but never marries. Not even when I was free after the War.
I sees too many married troubles to mess up with such doings!

Sometimes the master sent me alone to the grinding mill. Load in the yellow corn, hitch in
the oxen, I was ready to go. I gets me fixed up with a pass and takes to the road.

That was the trip I like best. On the way was a still. Off in the bresh. If the still was lonely
I stop, not on the way to but on the way back. Mighty good whiskey, too! Maybe I drinks too
much, then I was sorry.

Not that I swipe the whiskey, just sorry because I gets sick! Then I figures a woods camp meeting
will steady me up and I goes.

The preacher meet me and want to know how is my feelings. I says I is low with the misery and
he say to join up with the Lord.

I never join because he don't talk about the Lord. Just about the Master and Mistress. How
the slaves must obey around the plantation--how the white folks know what is good for the slaves.
Nothing about obeying the Lord and working for him.

I reckon the old preacher was worrying more about the bull whip than he was the Bible, else
he say something about the Lord! But I always obeys the Lord--that's why I is still living!

The slaves would pray for to get out of bondage. Some of them say the Lord told them to run
away. Get to the North. Cross the Red River. Over there would be folks to guide them to the
Free State (Kansas).

The Lord never tell me to run away. I never tried it, maybe, because mostly they was caught
by patrollers and fetched back for a flogging--and I had whippings enough already!

Before the Civil War was the fighting with Mexico. Some of the troops on they way south passed
on the Military Road. Wasn't any fighting around Linden or Jefferson during the time.

They was lots of traveling on the Military Road. Most of the time you could see covered wagons
pulled by mules and horses, and sometimes a crawling string of wagons with oxen on the pulling end.

From up in Arkansas come the stage coach along the road. To San Antonio. The drivers bring
news the Mexicans just about all killed off and the white folks say Texas was going to join
the Union. The country's going to be run different they say, but I never see no difference.
Maybe, because I ain't white folks.

Wasn't many Mexicans around the old plantation. Come and go. Lots of Indians. Cherokees and
Choctaws. Living in mud huts and cabin shacks. I never see them bother the whites, it was the
other way around.

During the Civil War, when the Red River was bank high with muddy water, the Yankee's made
a target of Jefferson. That was a small town down south of Linden.

Down the river come a flat barge with cannon fastened to the deck. The Yankee soldiers stopped
across the river from Jefferson and the shooting started.

When the cannon went to popping the folks went arunning--hard to tell who run the fastest,
the whites or the blacks! Almost the town was wiped out. Buildings was smashed and big trees
cut through with the cannon balls.

Before the Civil War everybody had money. The white folks, not the negroes. Sometimes the master
take me to the town stores. They was full of money. Cigar boxes on the counter, boxes on the
shelf, all filled with money. Not the crinkley paper kind, but hard, jingley gold and silver!
Not like these scarce times!

After the War I stay on the plantation 'til a soldier man tells me of the freedom. The master
never tell us--negroes working just like before the War.

That's when I leave the first time. Slip off, saying nothing, to Jefferson. There I found some
good white folks going to New Orleans. First place we go is Shreveport, by wagon. They took
me because I fix up with them to do the cooking.

On to the Big River (Mississippi) and boards a river steamboat for New Orleans. Lots of negroes
going down there--to work on the canal.

The whole town was built on logs covered with dirt. Trying to raise itself right out of the
swamp. Sometimes the water get high and folks run for the hills. When I got there almost was
I ready to leave.

I like Texas the best. Back to Jefferson is where I go. Fifteen-twenty mile below Linden. Almost
the first person I see was Master Davenport.

He says, "Black rascal, you is coming with me." And I do. He tried to keep his slaves and just
laugh when I tell him about the freedom. I worked for food and quarters 'til his meanness come
cropping out again.

That wasn't long and he threatened me with the whip and the buck and gag. The buck and gag
was maybe worse. I got to feeling that iron stick in my mouth, fastened around my head with
chains, pressing hard on my tongue. No drinking, no eating, no talking!

So I slip off again. That night I goes through Linden. Crawling on my hands and knees! Keeping
in the dark spots, hiding from the whites, 'til I pass the last house, then my feets hurries
me to Jefferson, where I gets a ride to Arkansas.

In Russelville is where I stop. There I worked around in the yards, cutting the grass, fancying
the flower beds, and earned a little money for clothes and eats, with some of it spent for
good whiskey.

That was the reason I left Arkansas. Whiskey. The law got after me to tell where was a man's
whiskey still. I just leave so's I won't have to tell.

But while I was making a little money in Russelville, I lose out on some big money, account
some white folks beat me to it.

I was out in the hills west of town, walking along the banks of a little creek, when I heard
a voice. Queer like. I called out who is that talking and I hears it again.

"Go to the white oak tree and you will find Ninety Thousand Dollars!" That's what I hear. I
look around, nobody in sight, but I see the tree. A big white oak tree standing taller than
all the rest 'round about.

Under the tree was a grave. An old grave. I scratch around but finds no money and thinks of
getting some help.

I done some work for a white man in town and told him about the voice. He promised to go with
me, but the next day he took two white mens and dug around the tree. Then he says they was
nothing to find.

To this day I know better. I know wherever they's a ghost, money is around someplace! That's
what the ghost comes back for.

Somebody dies and leaves buried money. The ghost watches over it 'til it sees somebody it likes.
Then ghost shows himself--lets know he's around. Sometimes the ghost tells where is the money
buried, like that time at Russelville.

That ain't the only ghost I've seen or heard. I see one around the yard where I is living now.
A woman. Some of these times she'll tell me where the buried money is.

Maybe the ghost woman thinks I is too old to dig. But I been a-digging all these long years.
For a bite to eat and a sleep-under cover.

I reckon pretty soon she's going to tell where to dig. When she does, then old Uncle John won't
have to dig for the eats no more! Tulsa, Okla.

Iffen I could see better out'n my old eyes, and I had me something to work with and de feebleness
in my back and head would let me 'lone, I would have me plenty to eat in de kitchen all de
time, and plenty tobaccy in my pipe, too, bless God!

And dey wouldn't be no rain trickling through de holes in de roof, and no planks all fell out'n
de flo' on de gallery neither, 'cause dis one old nigger knows everything about making all
he need to git along! Old Master done showed him how to git along in dis world, jest as long
as he live on a plantation, but living in de town is a different way of living, and all you
got to have is a silver dime to lay down for everything you want, and I don't git de dime very
often.

But I aint give up! Nothing like dat! On de days when I don't feel so feeble and trembly I
jest keep patching 'round de place. I got to keep patching so as to keep it whar it will hold
de winter out, in case I git to see another winter.

Iffen I don't, it don't grieve me none, 'cause I wants to see old Master again anyways. I reckon
maybe I'll jest go up an ask him what he want me to do, and he'll tell me, and iffen I don't
know how he'll show me how, and I'll try to do it to please him. And when I git it done I wants
to hear him grumble like he used to and say, "Charley, you ain't got no sense but you is a
good boy. Dis here ain't very good but it'll do, I reckon. Git yourself a little piece o' dat
brown sugar, but don't let no niggers see you eating it--if you do I'll whup your black behind!"

Dat ain't de way it going be in Heaven, I reckon, but I can't set here on dis old rottendy
gallery and think of no way I better like to have it!

I was a great big hulking buck of a boy when de War come along and bust up everything, and
I can 'member back when everybody was living peaceful and happy, and nobody never had no notion
about no war.

I was borned on the 'leventh of January, in 1843, and was old enough to vote when I got my
freedom, but I didn't take no stock in all dat politics and goings on at dat time, and I didn't
vote till a long time after old Master passed away, but I was big enough before de War to remember
everything pretty plain.

Old Master name was John Williams, and old Mistress name was Miss Betty, and she was a Campbell
before she married. Young Missy was named Betty after her mommy, and Young Master was named
Frank, but I don't know who after. Our overseer was Mr. Simmons, and he was mighty smart and
had a lot of patience, but he wouldn't take no talk nor foolishness. He didn't whup nobody
very often, but he only had to whup 'em jest one time! He never did whup a nigger at de time
the nigger done something, but he would wait till evening and have old Master come and watch
him do it. He never whupped very hard 'cept when he had told a nigger about something and promised
a whupping next time and the nigger done it again. Then that nigger got what he had been hearing
'bout!

De plantation was about as big as any. I think it had about three hundred acres, and it was
about two miles northwest of Monroe, Louisiana. Then he had another one not so big, two--three
miles south of the big one, kind of down in the woodsy part along the White river bottoms.
He had another overseer on that place and a big passel of niggers, but I never did go down
to that one. That was where he raised most of his corn and shoats, and lots of sorghum cane.

Our plantation was up on higher ground, and it was more open country, but still they was lots
of woods all around and lots of the plantations had been whacked right out of de new ground
and was full of stumps. Master's place was more open, though, and all in the fields was good
plowing.

The big road runned right along past our plantation, and it come from Shreveport and run into
Monroe. There wasn't any town at Monroe in them days, jest a little cross roads place with
a general store and a big hide house. I think there was about two big hide houses, and you
could smell that place a mile before you got into it. Old Master had a part in de store, I think.

De hide houses was jest long sheds, all open along de sides and kivered over wid cypress clapboards.

Down below de hide houses and de store was jest a little settlement of one or two houses, but
they was a school for white boys. Somebody said there was a place where they had been an old
fort, but I never did see it.

Everything boughten we got come from Shreveport, and was brung in by the stage and the freighters,
and that was only a little coffee or gunpowder, or some needles for the sewing, or some strap
iron for the blacksmith, or something like dat. We made and raised everything else we needed
right on the place.

I never did even see any quinine till after I was free. My mammy knowed jest what root to go
out and pull up to knock de chills right out'n me. And de bellyache and de running off de same
way, too.

Our plantation was a lot different from some I seen other places, like way east of there, around
Vicksburg. Some of them was fixed up fancier but dey didn't have no more comforts than we had.

Old Master come out into that country when he was a young man, and they didn't have even so
much then as they had when I was a boy. I think he come from Alabama or Tennessee, and way
back his people had come from Virginia, or maybe North Carolina, 'cause he knowed all about
tobacco on the place. Cotton and tobacco was de long crops on his big place, and of course
lots of horses and cattle and mules.

De big house was made out'n square hewed logs, and chinked wid little rocks and daubed wid
white clay, and kivered wid cypress clapboards. I remember one time we put on a new roof, and
de niggers hauled up de cypress logs and sawed dem and frowed out de clapboards by hand.

De house had two setting rooms on one side and a big kitchen room on de other, wid a wide passage
in between, and den about was de sleeping rooms. They wasn't no stairways 'cepting on de outside.
Steps run up to de sleeping rooms on one side from de passageway and on de other side from
clean outside de house. Jest one big chimbley was all he had, and it was on de kitchen end,
and we done all de cooking in a fireplace dat was purty nigh as wide as de whole room.

In de sleeping rooms day wasn't no fires 'cepting in brazers made out of clay, and we toted
up charcoal to burn in 'em when it was cold mornings in de winter. Dey kept warm wide de bed
clothes and de knitten clothes dey had.

Master never did make a big gallery on de house, but our white folks would set out in de yard
under de big trees in de shade. They was long benches made out'n hewed logs and all padded
wid gray moss and corn shuck padding, and dey set pretty soft. All de furniture in de house
was home-made, too. De beds had square posts as big around as my shank and de frame was mortised
into 'em, and holes bored in de frame and home-made rope laced in to make it springy. Den a
great big mattress full of goose feathers and two--three comforts as thick as my foot wid carded
wool inside! Dey didn't need no fireplaces!

De quarters was a little piece from de big house, and dey run along both sides of de road dat
go to de fields. All one-room log cabins, but dey was good and warm, and every one had a little
open shed at de side whar we sleep in de summer to keep cool.

They was two or three wells at de quarters for water, and some good springs in de branch at
de back of de fields. You could ketch a fish now and den in dat branch, but Young Master used
to do his fishing in White River, and take a nigger or two along to do de work at his camp.

It wasn't very fancy at de Big House, but it was mighty pretty jest de same, wid de gray moss
hanging from de big trees, and de cool green grass all over de yard, and I can shet my old
eyes and see it jest like it was before de War come along and bust it up.

I can see old Master setting out under a big tree smoking one of his long cheroots his tobacco
nigger made by hand, and fanning hisself wid his big wide hat another nigger platted out'n
young inside corn shucks for him, and I can hear him holler at a big bunch of white geeses
what's gitting in his flower beds and see 'em string off behind de old gander towards de big road.

When de day begin to crack de whole plantation break out wid all kinds of noises, and you could
tell what going on by de kind of noise you hear.

Come de daybreak you hear de guinea fowls start potracking down at de edge of de woods lot,
and den de roosters all start up 'round de barn and de ducks finally wake up and jine in. You
can smell de sow belly frying down at the cabins in de "row", to go wid de hoecake and de buttermilk.

Den purty soon de wind rise a little, and you can hear a old bell donging way on some plantation
a mile or two off, and den more bells at other places and maybe a horn, and purty soon younder
go old Master's old ram horn wid a long toot and den some short toots, and here come de overseer
down de row of cabins, hollering right and left, and picking de ham out'n his teeth wid a long
shiny goose quill pick.

Bells and horns! Bells for dis and horns for dat! All we knowed was go and come by de bells
and horns!

Old ram horn blow to send us all to de field. We all line up, about seventy-five field niggers,
and go by de tool shed and git our hoes, or maybe go hitch up de mules to de plows and lay
de plows out on de side so de overseer can see iffen de points is shart. Any plow gits broke
or de point gits bungled up on de rocks it goes to de blacksmith nigger, den we all git on
down in de field.

Den de anvil start dangling in de blacksmith shop: "Tank! Deling-ding! Tank! Deling-ding!",
and dat ole bull tongue gitting straightened out!

Course you can't hear de shoemaker awling and pegging, and de card spinners, and de old mammy
sewing by hand, but maybe you can hear de old loom going "frump, frump", and you know it all
right iffen your clothes do be wearing out, 'cause you gwine git new britches purty soon!

We had about a hundred niggers on dat place, young and old, and about twenty on de little place
down below. We could make about every kind of thing but coffee and gunpowder dat our whitefolks
and us needed.

When we needs a hat we gits inside cornshucks and weave one out, and makes horse collars de
same way. Jest tie two little soft shucks together and begin plaiting.

All de cloth 'cepting de Mistress' Sunday dresses come from de sheep to de carders and de spinners
and de weaver, den we dye it wid "butternut" and hickory bark and indigo and other things and
set it wid copperas. Leather tanned on de place made de shoes, and I never see a store boughten
wagon wheel 'cepting among de stages and de freighters along de big road.

We made purty, long back-combs out'n cow horn, and knitting needles out'n second hickory. Split
a young hickory and put in a big wedge to prize it open, then cut it down and let it season,
and you got good bent grain for wagon hames and chair rockers and such.

It was jest like dat until I was grown, and den one day come a neighbor man and say we in de War.

Little while young Master Frank ride over to Vicksburg and jine de Sesesh army, but old Master
jest go on lak nothing happen, and we all don't hear nothing more until long come some Sesesh
soldiers and take most old Master's hosses and all his wagons.

I bin working on de tobacco, and when I come back to de barns everything was gone. I would
go into de woods and git good hickory and burn it till it was all coals and put it out wid
water to make hickory charcoal for curing de tobacco. I had me some charcoal in de fire trenches
under de curing houses, all full of new tobacco, and overseer come and say bundle all de tobacco
up and he going take it to Shreveport and sell it befo' de soldiers take it too.

After de hosses all gone and most de cattle and de cotton and de tobacco gone too, here come
de Yankees and spread out all over de whole country. Dey had a big camp down below our plantation.

One evening a big bunch of Yankee officers come up to de Big House and old Master set out de
brandy in de yard and dey act purty nice. Next day de whole bunch leave on out of dat part.

When de hosses and stuff all go old Master sold all de slaves but about four, but he kept my
pappy and mammy and my brother Jimmie and my sister Betty. She was named after old Mistress.
Pappy's name was Charley and mammy's was Sally. De niggers he kept didn't have much work without
any hosses and wagons, but de blacksmith started in fixing up more wagons and he kept them
hid in de woods till they was all fixed.

Den along come some more Yankees, and dey tore everything we had up, and old Master was afeared
to shoot at them on account his womenfolks, so he tried to sneak the fambly out but they kotched
him and brung him back to de plantation.

We niggers didn't know dat he was gone until we seen de Yankees bringing dem back. De Yankees
had done took charge of everything and was camping in de big yard, and us was all down at de
quarters scared to death, but dey was jest letting us alone.

It was night when de white folks tried to go away, and still night when de Yankees brung dem
back, and a house nigger come down to de quarters wid three--four mens in blue clothes and
told us to come up to de Big House.

De Yankees didn't seem to be mad wid old Master, but jest laughed and talked wid him, but he
didn't take de jokes any too good.

Den dey asked him could he dance and he said no, and dey told him to dance or make us dance.
Dar he stood inside a big ring of dem mens in blue clothes, wid dey brass buttons shining in
de light from de fire dey had in front of de tents, and he jest stood and said nothing, and
it look lak he wasn't wanting to tell us to dance.

So some of us young bucks jest step up and say we was good dancers, and we start shuffling
while de rest of de niggers pat.

Some nigger women go back to de quarters and git de gourd fiddles and de clapping bones made
out'n beef ribs, and bring dem back so we could have some music. We git all warmed up and dance
lak we never did dance befo'! I speck we invent some new steps dat night!

We act lak we dancing for de Yankees, but we trying to please Master and old Mistress more
than anything, and purty soon he begin to smile a little and we all feel a lot better.

Next day de Yankees move on away from our place, and old Master start gitting ready to move
out. We git de wagons we hid, and de whole passel of us leaves out for Shreveport. Jest left
de old place standing like it was.

In Shreveport old Master git his cotton and tobacco money what he been afraid to have sent
back to de plantation when he sell his stuff, and we strike out north through Arkansas.

Dat was de awfullest trip any man ever make! We had to hide from everybody until we find out
if dey Yankees or Sesesh, and we go along little old back roads and up one mountain and down
another, through de woods all de way.

After a long time we git to the Missouri line, and kind of cut off through de corner of dat
state into Kansas. I don't know how we ever git across some of dem rivers but we did. Dey nearly
always would be some soldiers around de fords, and dey would help us find de best crossing.
Sometimes we had to unload de wagons and dry out de stuff what all got wet, and camp a day
or two to fix up again.

Purty soon we git to Fort Scott, and that was whar de roads forked ever whichaways. One went
on north and one east and one went down into de Indian country. It was full of soldiers coming
and going back and forth to Arkansas and Fort Gibson.

We took de road on west through Kansas, and made for Colorado Springs.

Fort Scott was all run down, and the old places whar dey used to have de soldiers was all fell
in in most places. Jest old rackety walls and leaky roofs, and a big pole fence made out'n
poles sot in de ground all tied together, but it was falling down too.

They was lots of wagons all around what belong to de army, hauling stuff for de soldiers, and
some folks told old Master he couldn't make us niggers go wid him, but we said we wanted to
anyways, so we jest went on west across Kansas.

When we got away on west we come to a fork, and de best road went kinda south into Mexico,
and we come to a little place called Clayton, Mexico whar we camped a while and then went north.

Dat place is in New Mexico now, but old Master jest called it Mexico. Somebody showed me whar
it is on de map, and it look lak it a long ways off'n our road to Colorado Springs, but I guess
de road jest wind off down dat ways at de time we went over it. It was jest two or three houses
made out'n mud at dat time, and a store whar de soldiers and de Indians come and done trading.

About dat time old Master sell off some of de stuff he been taking along, 'cause de wagons
loaded too heavy for de mountains and he figger he better have de money than some of de stuff,
I reckon.

On de way north it was a funny country. We jest climb all day long gitting up one side of one
bunch of mountains, and all de nigger men have to push on de wheels while de mules pull and
den scotch de wheels while de mules rest. Everybody but de whitefolks has to walk most de time.

Down in de valleys it was warm like in Louisiana, but it seem lak de sun aint so hot on de
head, but it look lak every time night come it ketch us up on top of one of dem mountains,
and it almost as cold as in de winter time!

All de niggers had shoes and plenty warm clothes and we wrop up at night in everything we can git.

We git to Fort Scott again, and den de Yankee officers come and ask all us niggers iffen we
want to leave old Master and stay dar and work, 'cause we all free now. Old Master say we can
do what we please about it.

A few of de niggers stay dar in Fort Scott, but most of us say we gwine stay wid old Master,
and we don't care iffen we is free or not.

When we git back to Monroe to de old place us niggers git a big surprise. We didn't hear about
it, but some old Master's kinfolks back in Virginia done come out dar an fix de place up and
kept it for him while we in Colorado, and it look 'bout as good as when we left it.

He cut it up in chunks and put us niggers out on it on de halves, but he had to sell part of
it to git de money to git us mules and tools and found to run on. Den after while he had to
sell some more, and he seem lak he git old mighty fast.

Young Master bin in de big battles in Virginia, and he git hit, and den he git sick, and when
he come home he jest lak a old man he was so feeble.

About dat time they was a lot of people coming into dat country from de North, and dey kept
telling de niggers dat de thing for dem to do was to be free, and come and go whar dey please.

Dey try to git de darkeys to go and vote but none us folks took much stock by what dey say.
Old Master tell us plenty time to mix in de politics when de younguns git educated and know
what to do.

Jest de same he never mind iffen we go to de dances and de singing and sech. He allus lent
us a wagon iffen we want to borry one to go in, too.

Some de niggers what work for de white folks from de North act purty uppity and big, and come
pestering 'round de dance places and try to talk up ructions amongst us, but it don't last long.

De Ku Kluckers start riding 'round at night, and dey pass de word dat de darkeys got to have
a pass to go and come and to stay at de dances. Dey have to git de pass from de white folks
dey work for, and passes writ from de Northern people wouldn't do no good. Dat de way de Kluckers
keep the darkies in line.

De Kluckers jest ride up to de dance ground and look at everybody's passes, and iffen some
darkey dar widout a pass or got a pass from de wrong man dey run him home, and iffen he talk
big and won't go home dey whop him and make him go.

Any nigger out on de road after dark liable to run across de Kluckers, and he better have a
good pass! All de dances got to bust up at about 'leven o'clock, too.

One time I seen three-four Kluckers on hosses, all wrapped up in white, and dey was making
a black boy git home. Dey was riding hosses and he was trotting down de road ahead of 'em.
Ever time he stop and start talking dey pop de whip at his heels and he start trotting on.
He was so made he was crying, but he was gitting on down de road jest de same.

I seen 'em coming and I gits out my pass young Master writ so I could show it, but when dey
ride by one in front jest turns in his saddle and look back at tother men and nod his head,
and they jest ride on by widout stopping to see my pass. Dat man knowed me, I reckon. I looks
to see iffen I knowed de hoss, but de Kluckers sometime swapped dey hosses 'round amongst 'em,
so de hoss maybe wasn't hisn.

Dey wasn't very bad 'cause de niggers 'round dar wasn't bad, but I hear plenty of darkeys git
whopped in other places 'cause dey act up and say dey don't have to take off dey hats in de
white stores and such.

Any nigger dat behave hisself and don't go running 'round late at night and drinking never
had no trouble wid de Kluckers.

Young Mistress go off and git married, but I don't remember de name 'cause she live off somewhar
else, and de next year, I think it was, my pappy and mammy go on a place about five miles away
owned by a man named Mr. Bumpus, and I go 'long wid my sister Betty and brother Jimmie to help 'em.

I live around dat place and never marry till old mammy and pappy both gone, and Jimmie and
Betty both married and I was gitting about forty year old myself, and den I go up in Kansas
and work around till I git married at last.

I was in Fort Scott, and I married Mathilda Black in 1900, and she is 73 years old now and
was born in Tennessee. We went to Pittsburg, Kansas, and lived from 1907 to 1913 when we come
to Tulsa.

Young Master's children writ to me once in a while and telled me how dey gitting 'long up to
about twenty year ago, and den I never heard no more about 'em. I never had no children, and
it look lak my wife going outlive me, so my mainest hope when I goes on is seeing Mammy and
Pappy and old Master. Old overseer, I speck, was too devilish mean to be thar!

'Course I loves my Lord Jesus same as anybody, but you see I never hear much about Him until
I was grown, and it seem lak you got to hear about religion when you little to soak it up and
put much by it. Nobody could read de Bible when I was a boy, and dey wasn't no white preachers
talked to de niggers. We had meeting sometimes, but de nigger preacher jest talk about bein
a good nigger and "doing to please de Master," and I allus thought he meant to please old Master,
and I allus wanted to do dat anyways.

So dat de reason I allus remember de time old Master pass on.

It was about two years after de War, and old Master been mighty porely all de time. One day
we was working in de Bumpus field and a nigger come on a mule and say old Mistress like to
have us go over to de old place 'cause old Master mighty low and calling mine and Pappy's and
Mammy's name. Old man Bumpus say go right ahead.

When we git to de Big House old Master setting propped up in de bed and you can see he mighty
low and out'n his head.

He been talking about gitting de oats stacked, 'cause it seem to him lak it gitting gloomy-dark,
and it gwine to rain, and hail gwine to ketch de oats in de shocks. Some nigger come running
up to de back door wid an old horn old Mistress sent him out to hunt up, and he blowed it so
old Master could hear it.

Den purty soon de doctor come to de door and say old Master wants de bell rung 'cause de slaves
should ought to be in from de fields, 'cause it gitting too dark to work. Somebody git a wagon
tire and beat on it like a bell ringing, right outside old Master's window, and den we all
go up on de porch and peep in. Every body was snuffling kind of quiet, 'cause we can't help it.

We hear old Master say, "Dat's all right, Simmons. I don't want my niggers working in de rain.
Go down to de quarters and see dey all dried off good. Dey ain't got no sense but dey all good
niggers." Everybody around de bed was crying, and we all was crying too.

Den old Mistress come to de door and say we can go in and look at him if we want to. He was
still setting propped up, but he was gone.

I stayed in Louisiana a long time after dat, but I didn't care nothing about it, and it look
lak I'm staying a long time past my time in dis world, 'cause I don't care much about staying
no longer only I hates to leave Mathilda.

But any time de Lord want me I'm ready, and I likes to think when He ready He going tell old
Master to ring de bell for me to come on in.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

SARAH WILSON Age 87 yrs. Fort Gibson, Okla.

I was a Cherokee slave and now I am a Cherokee freedwoman, and besides that I am a quarter
Cherokee my own self. And this is the way it is.

I was born in 1850 along the Arkansas river about half way between Fort Smith and old Fort
Coffee and the Skullyville boat landing on the river. The farm place was on the north side
of the river on the old wagon road what run from Fort Smith out to Fort Gibson, and that old
road was like you couldn't hardly call a road when I first remember seeing it. The ox teams
bog down to they bellies in some places, and the wagon wheel mighty nigh bust on the big rocks
in some places.

I remember seeing soldiers coming along that old road lots of times, and freighting wagons,
and wagons what we all know carry mostly wiskey, and that was breaking the law, too! Them soldiers
catch the man with that whiskey they sure put him up for a long time, less'n he put some silver
in they hands. That's what my Uncle Nick say. That Uncle Nick a mean Negro, and he ought to
know about that.

Like I tell you, I am quarter Cherokee. My mammy was named Adeline and she belong to old Master
Ben Johnson. Old Master Ben bring my grandmammy out to that Sequoyah district way back when
they call it Arkansas, mammy tell me, and God only know who my mammy's pa is, but mine was
old Master Ben's boy, Ned Johnson.

Old Master Ben come from Tennessee when he was still a young man, and he bring a whole passel
of slaves and my mammy say they all was kin to one another, all the slaves I mean. He was a
white man that married a Cherokee woman, and he was a devil on this earth. I don't want to
talk about him none.

White folks was mean to us like the devil, and so I jest let them pass. When I say my brothers
and sisters I mean my half brothers and sisters, you know, but maybe some of them was my whole
kin anyways, I don't know. They was Lottie that was sold off to a Starr because she wouldn't
have a baby, and Ed, Dave, Ben, Jim and Ned.

My name is Sarah now but it was Annie until I was eight years old. My old Mistress' name was
Annie and she name me that, and Mammy was afraid to change it until old Mistress died, then
she change it. She hate old Mistress and that name too.

Lottie's name was Annie, too, but Mammy changed it in her own mind but she was afraid to say
it out loud, a-feared she would get a whipping. When sister was sold off Mammy tell her to
call herself Annie when she was leaving but call herself Lottie when she git over to the Starrs.
And she done it too. I seen her after that and she was called Lottie all right.

The Negroes lived all huddled up in a bunch in little one-room log cabins with stick and mud
chimneys. We lived in one, and it had beds for us children like shelves in the wall. Mammy
need to help us up into them.

Grandmammy was mighty old and Mistress was old too. Grandmammy set on the Master's porch and
minded the baby mostly. I think it was Young Master's. He was married to a Cherokee girl. They
was several of the boys but only one girl, Nicie. The old Master's boys were Aaron, John, Ned,
Cy and Nathan. They lived in a double log house made out of square hewed logs, and with a double
fireplace out of rock where they warmed theirselves on one side and cooked on the other. They
had a long front porch where they set most of the time in the summer, and slept on it too.

There was over a hundred acres in the Master's farm, and it was all bottom land too, and maybe
you think he let them slaves off easy! Work from daylight to dark! They all hated him and the
overseer too, and before slavery ended my grandmammy was dead and old Mistress was dead and
old Master was mighty feeble and Uncle Nick had run away to the North soldiers and they never
got him back. He run away once before, about ten years before I was born, Mammy say, but the
Cherokees went over in the Creek Nation and got him back that time.

The way he made the Negroes work so hard, old Master must have been trying to get rich. When
they wouldn't stand for a whipping he would sell them.

I saw him sell a old woman and her son. Must have been my aunt. She was always pestering around
trying to get something for herself, and one day she was cleaning the yard he seen her pick
up something and put it inside her apron. He flew at her and cussed her, and started like he
was going to hit her but she just stood right up to him and never budged, and when he come
close she just screamed out loud and ran at him with her fingers stuck out straight and jabbed
him in the belly. He had a big soft belly, too, and it hurt him. He seen she wasn't going to
be afraid, and he set out to sell her. He went off on his horse to get some men to come and
bid on her and her boy, and all us children was mighty scared about it.

They would have hangings at Fort Smith courthouse, and old Master would take a slave there
sometimes to see the hanging, and that slave would come back and tell us all scary stories
about the hanging.

One time he whipped a whole bunch of the men on account of a fight in the quarters, and then
he took them all to Fort Smith to see a hanging. He tied them all in the wagon, and when they
had seen the hanging he asked them if they was scared of them dead men hanging up there. They
all said yes, of course, but my old uncle Nick was a bad Negro and he said, "No, I aint a-feared
of them nor nothing else in this world", and old Master jumped on him while he was tied and
beat him with a rope, and then when they got home he tied old Nick to a tree and took his shirt
off and poured the cat-o-nine-tails to him until he fainted away and fell over like he was dead.

I never forget seeing all that blood all over my uncle, and if I could hate that old Indian
any more I guess I would, but I hated him all I could already I reckon.

Old Master wasn't the only hellion neither. Old Mistress just as bad, and she took most of
her wrath out hitting us children all the time. She was afraid of the grown Negroes. Afraid
of what they might do while old Master was away, but she beat us children all the time.

She would call me, "Come here Annie!" and I wouldn't know what to do. If I went when she called
"Annie" my mammy would beat me for answering to that name, and if I didn't go old Mistress
would beat me for that. That made me hate both of them, and I got the devil in me and I wouldn't
come to either one. My grandmammy minded the Master's yard, and she set on the front porch
all the time, and when I was called I would run to her and she wouldn't let anybody touch me.

When I was eight years old old Mistress died, and Grandmammy told me why old Mistress picked
on me so. She told me about me being half Mister Ned's blood. Then I knowed why Mister Ned
would say, "Let her along, she got big big blood in her", and then laugh.

Young Mister Ned was a devil, too. When his mammy died he went out and "blanket married." I
mean he brung in a half white and half Indian woman and just lived with her.

The slaves would get rations every Monday morning to do them all week. The Overseer would weigh
and measure according to how many in the family, and if you run out you just starve till you
get some more. We all know the overseer steal some of it for his own self but we can't do anything,
so we get it from the old Master some other way.

One day I was carrying water from the spring and I run up on Grandmammy and Uncle Nick skinning
a cow. "What you-all doing?", I say, and they say keep my mouth shut or they kill me. They
was stealing from the Master to piece out down at the quarters with. Old Master had so many
cows he never did count the difference.

I guess I wasn't any worse than any the rest of the Negroes, but I was bad to tell little lies.
I carry scars on my legs to this day where Old Master whip me for lying, with a rawhide quirt
he carry all the time for his horse. When I lie to him he just jump down off'n his horse and
whip me good right there.

In slavery days we all ate sweet potatoes all the time. When they didn't measure out enough
of the tame kind we would go out in the woods and get the wild kind. They growed along the
river sand betaween where we lived and Wilson's Rock, out west of our place.

Then we had boiled sheep and goat, mostly goat, and milk and wild greens and corn pone. I think
the goat meat was the best, but I aint had no teeth for forty years now, and a chunk of meat
hurts my stomach. So I just eats grits mostly. Besides hoeing in the field, chopping sprouts,
shearing sheep, carrying water, cutting firewood, picking cotton and sewing I was the one they
picked to work Mistress' little garden where she raised things from seed they got in Fort Smith.
Green peas and beans and radishes and things like that. If we raised a good garden she give
me a little of it, and if we had a poor one I got a little anyhow even when she didn't give it.

For clothes we had homespun cotton all the year round, but in winter we had a sheep skin jacket
with the wool left on the inside. Sometimes sheep skin shoes with the wool on the inside and
sometimes real cow leather shoes with wood peggings for winter, but always barefooted in summer,
all the men and women too.

Lord, I never earned a dime of money in slave days for myself but plenty for the old Master.
He would send us out to work the neighbors field and he got paid for it, but we never did see
any money.

I remember the first money I ever did see. It was a little while after we was free, and I found
a greenback in the road at Fort Gibson and I didn't know what it was. Mammy said it was money
and grabbed for it, but I was still a hell cat and I run with it. I went to the little sutler
store and laid it down and pointed to a pitcher I been wanting. The man took the money and
give me the pitcher, but I don't know to this day how much money it was and how much was the
pitcher, but I still got that pitcher put away. It's all blue and white stripedy.

Most of the work I done off the plantation was sewing. I learned from my Granny and I loved
to sew. That was about the only thing I was industrious in. When I was just a little bitsy
girl I found a steel needle in the yard that belong to old Mistress. My mammy took it and I
cried. She put it in her dress and started for the field. I cried so old Mistress found out
why and made Mammy give me the needle for my own.

We had some neighbor Indians named Starr, and Mrs. Starr used me sometimes to sew. She had
nine boys and one girl, and she would sew up all they clothes at once to do for a year. She
would cut out the cloth for about a week, and then send the word around to all the neighbors,
and old Mistress would send me because she couldn't see good to sew. They would have stacks
of drawers, shirts, pants and some dresses all cut out to sew up.

I was the only Negro that would set there and sew in that bunch of women, and they always talked
to me nice and when they eat I get part of it too, out in the kitchen.

One Negro girl, Eula Davis, had a mistress sent her too, one time, but she wouldn't sew. She
didn't like me because she said I was too white and she played off to spite the white people.
She got sent home, too.

When old Mistress die I done all the sewing for the family almost. I could sew good enough
to go out before I was eight years old, and when I got to be about ten I was better than any
other girl on the place for sewing.

I can still quilt without my glasses, and I have sewed all night long many a time while I was
watching Young Master's baby after old Mistress died.

They was over a hundred acres in the plantation, and I don't know how many slaves, but before
the War ended lots of the men had run away. Uncle Nick went to the North and never come home,
and Grandmammy died about that time.

We was way down across the Red river in Texas at that time, close to Shawneetown of the Choctaw
Nation but just across the river on the other side in Texas bottoms. Old Master took us there
in covered wagons when the Yankee soldiers got too close by in the first part of the War. He
hired the slaves out to Texas people because he didn't make any crops down there, and we all
lived in kind of camps. That's how some of the men and my uncle Nick got to slip off to the
north that way.

Old Master just rant and rave all the time we was in Texas. That's the first time I ever saw
a doctor. Before that when a slave sick the old women give them herbs, but down there one day
old Master whip a Negro girl and she fall in the fire, and he had a doctor come out to fix
her up where she was burnt. I remember Granny giving me clabber milk when I was sick, and when
I was grown I found out it had had medicine in it.

Before freedom we didn't have no church, but slipped around to the other cabins and had a little
singing sometimes. Couldn't have anybody show us the letters either, and you better not let
them catch you pick up a book even to look at the pictures, for it was against a Cherokee law
to have a Negro read and write or to teach a Negro.

Some Negroes believed in buckeyes and charms but I never did. Old Master had some good boys,
named Aaron, John, Ned, Cy and Nat and they told me the charms was no good. Their sister Nicie
told me too, and said when I was sick just come and tell her.

They didn't tell us anything about Christmas and New Year though, and all we done was work.

When the War was ended we was still in Texas, and when old Master got a letter from Fort Smith
telling him the slaves was free he couldn't read, and Young Miss read it to him. He went wild
and jumped on her and beat the devil out of her. Said she was lying to him. It near about killed
him to let us loose, but he cooled down after awhile and said he would help us all get back
home if we wanted to come.

Mammy told him she could bear her own expenses. I remember I didn't know what "expenses" was,
and I thought it was something I was going to have to help carry all the way back.

It was a long time after he knew we was free before he told us. He tried to keep us, I reckon,
but had to let us go. He died pretty soon after he told us, and some said his heart just broke
and some said some Negroes poisoned him. I didn't know which.

Anyways we had to straggle back the best way we could, and me and mammy just got along one
way and another till we got to a ferry over the Red River and into Arkansas. Then we got some
rides and walked some until we got to Fort Smith. They was a lot of Negro camps there and we
stayed awhile and then started out to Fort Gibson because we heard they was giving rations
out there. Mammy knew we was Cherokee anyway, I guess.

That trip was hell on earth. Nobody let us ride and it took us nearly two weeks to walk all
that ways, and we nearly starved all the time. We was skin and bones and feet all bloody when
we got to the Fort.

We come here to Four Mile Branch to where the Negroes was all setting down, and pretty soon
Mammy died.

I married Oliver Wilson on January second, 1878. He used to belong to Mr. DeWitt Wilson of
Tahlequah, and I think the old people used to live down at Wilson Rock because my husband used
to know all about that place and the place where I was borned. Old Mister DeWitt Wilson give
me a pear tree the next year after I was married, and it is still out in my yard and bears
every year.

I was married in a white and black checkedy calico apron that I washed for Mr. Tim Walker's
mother Lizzie all day for, over close to Ft. Gibson, and I was sure a happy woman when I married
that day. Him and me both got our land on our Cherokee freedman blood and I have lived to bury
my husband and see two great grandchildren so far.

I bless God about Abraham Lincoln. I remember when my mammy sold pictures of him in Fort Smith
for a Jew. If he give me my freedom I know he is in Heaven now.

I heard a lot about Jefferson Davis in my life. During the War we hear the Negroes singing
the soldier song about hand Jeff Davis to a apple tree, and old Master tell about the time
we know Jeff Davis. Old Master say Jeff Davis was just a dragoon soldier out of Fort Gibson
when he bring his family out here from Tennessee, and while they was on the road from Fort
Smith to where they settled young Jeff Davis and some more dragoon soldiers rid up and talked
to him a long time. He say my grandmammy had a bundle on her head, and Jeff Davis say, "Where
you going Aunty?" and she was tired and mad and she said, "I don't know, to Hell I reckon",
and all the white soldiers laughed at her and made her that much madder.

I joined the Four Mile Branch church in 1879 and Sam Solomon was a Creek negro and the first
preacher I ever heard preach. Everybody ought to be in the church and ready for that better
home on the other side.

All the old slaves I know are dead excepting two, and I will be going pretty soon I reckon,
but I'm glad I lived to see the day the Negroes get the right treatment if they work good and
behave themselves right. They don't have to have no pass to walk abroad no more, and they can
all read and write now, but it's a tarnation shame some of them go and read the wrong kind
of things anyways.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves 10-19-38 1,534 words

TOM W. WOODS Age 83. Alderson, Okla.

Lady, if de nigger hadn't been set free dis country wouldn't ever been what it is now! Poor
white folks wouldn't never had a chance. De slave holders had most of de money and de land
and dey wouldn't let de poor white folks have a chance to own any land or anything else to
speak of. Dese white folks wasn't much better off den we was. Dey had to work hard and dey
had to worry 'bout food, clothes and shelter and we didn't. Lots of slave owners wouldn't allow
dem on deir farms among deir slaves without orders from de overseer. I don't know why, unless
he was afraid dey would stir up discontent among de niggers. Dere was lots of "underground
railroading" and I rekon dat was what Old Master and others was afraid of.

Us darkies was taught dat poor white folks didn't amount to much. Course we knowed dey was
white and we was black and dey was to be respected for dat, but dat was about all.

White folks as well as niggers profited by emancipation. Lincoln was a friend to all poor white
folks as well as black ones and if he could a' lived things would a'been different for ever'body.

Dis has been a good old world to live in. I always been able to make a purty good living and
de only trouble I ever had has been sickness and death. I've had a sight of dat kind of trouble.
I've outlived two wives and eight children. I had 13 brothers and sisters and I was de oldest,
and I'm de only one left.

I sits here at night by myself and gits to wondering what de good Lord is sparing me for. I
reckon it's for some good reason, and I'd like to live to be a hundred if He wants me to. I'm
not tired of living yet!

I was born in Florence, Alabama. My father's name was Thomas Woods and my mammy was Frances
Foster. Mammy belonged to Wash Foster and father was owned by Moses Woods, who lived on an
adjoining plantation. He worked for his Master ever' day but spent each night wid us. He walked
'bout a mile to his work ever' day.

Master Wash was a poor man when he married Miss Sarah Watkins of Richmond, Virginia. Her father
was as rich as cream, he owned 7 plantations and 200 slaves to each plantation. When Master
Wash and Miss Sarah got married her father give her 50 slaves. Ever'body said Miss Mary jest
married Master Wash because he was a purty boy, and he sure was a fine looking man.

He was good and kind to all his slaves when he was sober, but he was awful crabbed and cross
when he was drunk, and he was drunk most of de time. He was hard to please and sometimes he
would whip de slaves. I remember seeing Master Wash whup two men once. He give 'em 200 lashes.

Miss Sarah was de best woman in de world. It takes a good woman to live wid a drunkard.

Two of the men ran away one time and was gone till dey got tired of staying away. Master Wash
wouldn't let anyone hunt 'em. When dey finally come home he had dem strapped in stocks and
den deir bodies bared to de waist and he sure did ply de lash. I guess he whupped 'em harder
dan he would if he hadn't been so full of whisky.

He never did sell any of his slaves. He kept the 50 dat Miss Sarah's father give 'em and deir
increase. He bought some ever' time dey had a sale. He owned two plantations and dey was about
a hundred slaves on each one. Him and his family lived in town.

Me and a boy named John was sized and put to work when we was about nine or ten years old.
We was so bad dey had to put us to work as dey couldn't do any thing else with us. We'd chase
de pigs and ride de calves and to punish us dey made us tote water to de hands. Dey was so
many hands to water dat it kept us busy running back and forth with de water. De next year
dey put me to plowing and him to hoeing. We made regular hands from den on.

If we had behaved ourselves we wouldn't a'had to go to work till we was fourteen or fifteen
anyway. Slave owners was awful good to deir nigger chaps for dey wanted 'em to grow up to be
strong men and women.

Dey was about thirty children on our plantation. Two women looked after us and took care of
us till our parents come in from de field. Dey cooked for us and always gave us our supper
and sent us home to our parents for de night.

Our food was placed on a long table in a trough. Each child had a spoon and four of us eat
out of one trough. Our food at night was mostly milk and bread. At noon we had vegetables,
bread, meat and milk. He gave us more and better food than he did his field hands. He said
he didn't want none of us to be stunted in our growing.

He bought our shoes for us but cloth for our clothes was spun and wove right there on de farm.
In summer us boys wore long tailed shirts and no pants. I've plowed dat way a many a day. We
was glad to see it git warm in de spring so we could go barefooted and go wid out our pants.

Our overseers lived near de quarters and every morning about four o' clock dey'd blow a horn
[HW: to] wake us up. We knowed it meant to git up and start de day. We was in de field by de
time we could see. We always fed our teams at night. We'd give 'em enough to keep 'em eating
all night so we wouldn't have to feed 'em in de morning.

Master Wash Foster and his family lived in de finest house in Florence, Ala. It was a fine,
large two-story house, painted white as nearly all de houses was in dem days. Dere was big
gallery in front and back and a fine lawn wid big cedar and chestnut trees all 'round de house.

He had a fine carriage and a pair of spanking bays dat cost him $500 apiece. Old Monroe was
his coachman and dey made a grand sight. Monroe kept de nickel plated harness and carriage
trimmings shining and de team was brushed slick and clean and dey sure stepped out.

We lived on de plantation about eight miles from town and we liked for de family to come out
to de farm. Dey was four children, Wash, Jack, Sarah and Sally and dey always played with us.
When dey come we always had a regular feast as dey children would eat wid us children. Dey
had dishes though to eat out of. After dinner we would run and play Peep Squirrel. I think
dey call it hide-and-seek now.

My mother was a regular field hand till Miss Sarah decided to take her into town to take care
of her children. Dey all called her Frank instead of Frances. I used to get to go to town to
visit my mother and we'd have glorious times I tell you.

We'd go out and gather hickory nuts, hazel nuts, pig nuts, and walnuts. We'd all set around
de fire and eat nuts and tell ghost tales ever' night. Master Wash raised lots of apples too,
and we had all that we wanted of dem to eat.

I saw lots of Yankee soldiers. Sherman and Grant's armies marched by our house and camped at
DeCatur, Ala. It took dem three days to pass. We wasn't afraid of dem.

In the second year of de war some Yankee soldiers come through and gathered up all de slaves
and took us to Athens, Ala., and put us on a Government farm. We stayed dere till de end of
de War. My father died jest before dey took us away.

My mother and us children were on de farm together and dey treated us all mighty good. We had
plenty of good food and clothes.

Master Wash came to see us while we was on de Government farm. He was left in a bad shape and
we was all sorry for him. A lot of his hands went back to him after de Surrender but we never
did. Mother married another man named Goodloe and we all went to Arkansas, near Little Rock.
Dis was his former home. I was about nineteen or twenty years old at this time.

I never sent to school. My wife taught me how to read de Bible but I never learned to write.
I have good eyesight. I guess dat is cause I never put dem out reading and going to moving
picture shows.

When any of my family was sick I always sent for de doctor. We had a few of our own home remedies
dat we used also. We boiled poke root and bathed in it for a cure for rheumatism.

A tea made from May apples was used for a physic.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

ANNIE YOUNG Age 86 Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born in 1851, makes me 86 years old. I was born in Middle Tennessee, Summers County.
My mother was put on a block and sold from me when I was a child. I don't remember my father
real good. Sister Martha, Sister Sallie, nor Sister Jane wasn't sold. But my brother John was.
My mother's name is Rachel Donnahue. We lived in a log hut. The white folks lived in a frame
white building sitting in a big grove yard. Old master owned a big farm.

We ate molasses, bread and butter and milk in wooden bowls and crumbled our bread up in it.
Old master had big smokehouses of meat. Dey ate chickens, possums and coons, and my old auntie
would barbecue rabbits for de white folks. We ate ash cakes too.

I washed dishes, swept de yard, and kept de yard clean wid weed brush brooms. I never earned
no money. All de slaves had gardens, and chickens too. My auntie, dey let her have chickens
of her own and she raised chickens, and had a chicken house and garden down in de woods.

I remember in time of de War dey'd send me down in de woods to pick up chips and git wood.
All de men had gone to de army. One morning and t'was cold dey sent me down in de woods and
my hands got frostbitten. All de skin come off and dey had to tie my hands up in roasted turnips.
Sallie she had gloves, and didn't get frostbitten. After my old master died, Master Donnahue
was his name, his old son-in-law come to take over de plantation. He was mean, but my sister
whipped him.

We had no nigger driver or overseer. We raised wheat, corn and vegetables, not much cotton,
jest enough to spun de clothes out of.

At night when we'd go to our cabins we'd pick cotton from de seeds to make our clothes. Boys
and girls alike wore dem long shirts slit up de side nearly to your necks. They'd have cornshuckings
sometimes all night long. You see I didn't have no mother, no father, nobody to lead me, teach
me or tell me, and so jest lived with anybody was good enough to let me stay and done what
they did. They'd have log rollings, with all de whiskey dey could drink.

I remember going to church, de Methodist Church dey call it. We used to sing dis song and I
sho did like it too:

    "I went down in de valley to pray,
    Studying dat good old way."

I been a Christian long before most of dese young niggers was born. My other favorites are:

    "Must Jesus bear This Cross Alone."

and

    "The Consecrated Cross I'll Bear 'til
      Death Shall Set Me Free,
    Yea, There's a Crown for Everyone,
      And There's a Crown for Me."

Yes Lawd, there sho is.

One day a nigger killed one of his master's shoats and he catch him and when he'd ask him,
"What's that you got there?" The nigger said, "a possum." De master said, "Let me see." He
looked and seen it was a shoat. De nigger said, "Master it may be a shoat now, but it sho was
a possum while ago when I put 'im in dis sack."

Dey didn't whip our folks much, but one day I saw a overseer on another place. He staked a
man down with two forked sticks 'cross his wrist nailed in de ground and beat him half to death
with a hand saw 'til it drawed blisters. Den he mopped his back wid vinegar, salt and pepper.
Sometimes dey'd drop dat hot rosin from pine knots on dose blisters.

When de Yanks come, business took place. I remember white folks was running and hiding, gitting
everything dey could from de Yanks. Dey hid dey jewelry and fine dishes and such. Dose Yanks
had on big boots. Dey'd drive up, feed dey hosses from old Master's corn, catch dey chickens,
and tell old Master's cook to cook 'em, and they'd shoot down old Master's hogs and skin 'em.

De Yanks used to make my nephew drunk, and have him sing (dis is kind of bad):

    "I'll be God O'Mighty
    God Dammed if I don't
    Kill a nigger,
    Oh Whooey boys! Oh Whooey!
    Oh Whooey boys! Oh Whooey!"

I don't remember never seeing no funerals. Jest took 'em off and buried 'em. I remember dat
old Master's son-in-law dat my sister whipped, he called hisself a doctor and he killed Aunt
Clo. Give her some medicine but he didn't know what he was doing and killed her.

I married William Young and we had a pretty good wedding. Married in Crittington County Arkansas.
When I left Tennessee and went to Arkansas I followed some hands. You know after de War dey
immigrated niggers from one place to another. I owned a good farm in Arkansas. I came out here
some 42 years ago.

I have three daughters. Mattie Brockins runs a rooming house in Kansas City. Jessie Cotton,
lives right up de street here. Osie Olla Anderson is working out in North town.

Well I think Abraham Lincoln is more than a type a man than Moses. I believe he is a square
man, believe in union that every man has a right to be a free man regardless to color. He was
a republican man. Don't know much 'bout Jeff Davis but I think Booker T. Washington was a pretty
good man. He's a right good man I guess, but he is dead ain't he?

I can remember once my auntie's old Master tried to have her and she run off out in de woods,
and when he put those blood hounds or nigger hounds on her trail he catched her and hit her
in de head wid something like de stick de police carry, and he knocked a hole in her head and
she bled like a hog, and he made her have him. She told her mistress, and mistress told her
to go ahead and be wid him 'cause he's gonna kill you. And he had dem two women and she had
some chillun nearly white, and master and dey all worked in de fields side by side.