consider it as still improper to disclose." has been changed to "which I consider as still
improper to disclose."

Bolded text is marked with =.]

               MY REMINISCENCES OF THE ANGLO-BOER WAR

                                 BY

                         GENERAL BEN VILJOEN

   (ASSISTANT COMMANDANT-GENERAL OF THE TRANSVAAL BURGHER FORCES
      AND MEMBER FOR JOHANNESBURG IN THE TRANSVAAL VOLKSRAAD)

                  Maps from Drawings by P. Van Breda

                               LONDON:
                       HOOD, DOUGLAS, & HOWARD,
                       11, CLIFFORD'S INN, E.C.
                                1902.

PREFACE.

General Ben Viljoen, while engaged on this work, requested me to write a short introduction
to it. This request I gladly comply with.

General Viljoen was a prisoner-of-war at Broadbottom Camp, St. Helena, where, after two years'
service in South Africa, I was stationed with my regiment. It was at the General's further
request that I conveyed this work to Europe for publication.

The qualities which particularly endeared this brave and justly-famous Boer officer to us were
his straightforwardness and unostentatious manner, his truthfulness, and the utter absence
of affectation that distinguishes him. I am certain that he has written his simple narrative
with candour and impartiality, and I feel equally certain, from what I know of him, that this
most popular of our late opponents has reviewed the exciting episodes of the War with an honesty,
an intelligence, and a humour which many previous publications on the War have lacked.

During his stay at St. Helena I became deeply attached to General Viljoen; and in conclusion
I trust that this work, which entailed many hours of labour, will yield him a handsome recompense.

                         THEODORE BRINCKMAN, C.B.
                                 Colonel Commanding,
                          3rd, The Buffs (East Kent Regt.)

  Tarbert,
    Loch Fyne,
      Scotland.
                                       September, 1902

INDEX TO CONTENTS.

                                                         Page
    PREFACE BY COL. THEODORE BRINCKMAN, C.B.                5

    THE AUTHOR TO THE READER                                9

    CHAPTER

          I. THE WAR CLOUDS GATHER                         19

         II. AND THE WAR STORM BREAKS                      24

        III. THE INVASION OF NATAL                         30

         IV. DEFEATED AT ELANDSLAAGTE                      40

          V. PURSUED BY THE LANCERS                        44

         VI. RISKING JOUBERT'S ANGER                       59

        VII. THE BOER GENERAL'S SUPERSTITIONS              68

       VIII. "GREAT POWERS" TO INTERVENE                   72

         IX. COLENSO AND SPION KOP FIGHTS                  78

          X. THE BATTLE OF VAALKRANTZ                      88

         XI. THE TURN OF THE TIDE                         100

        XII. THE GREAT BOER RETREAT                       110

       XIII. DRIVEN FROM THE BIGGARSBERGEN                124

        XIV. DISPIRITED AND DEMORALISED                   133

         XV. OCCUPATION OF PRETORIA                       145

        XVI. BATTLE OF DONKERHOEK ("DIAMOND HILL")        150

       XVII. I BECOME A GENERAL                           161

      XVIII. OUR CAMP BURNED OUT                          175

        XIX. BATTLE OF BERGENDAL (MACHADODORP)            181

         XX. TWO THOUSAND BRITISH PRISONERS RELEASED      185

        XXI. A GOVERNMENT IN FLIGHT                       193

       XXII. AN IGNOMINIOUS DISPERSAL                     204

      XXIII. A DREARY TREK THROUGH FEVERLAND              212

        XIV. PAINS AND PLEASURES OF COMMANDEERING         237

        XXV. PUNISHING THE PRO-BRITISH                    246

       XXVI. BATTLE OF RHENOSTERKOP                       258

      XXVII. THE SECOND CHRISTMAS AT WAR                  278

     XXVIII. CAPTURE OF "LADY ROBERTS"                    285

       XXIX. A DISMAL "HAPPY NEW YEAR"                    302

        XXX. GENERAL ATTACK ON BRITISH FORTS              307

       XXXI. A "BLUFF" AND A BATTLE                       322

      XXXII. EXECUTION OF A TRAITOR                       333

     XXXIII. IN A TIGHT CORNER                            339

      XXXIV. ELUDING THE BRITISH CORDON                   348

       XXXV. BOER GOVERNMENT'S NARROW ESCAPE              358

      XXXVI. A GOVERNMENT ON HORSEBACK                    377

     XXXVII. BLOWING UP AN ARMOURED TRAIN                 382

    XXXVIII. TRAPPING PRO-BRITISH BOERS                   388

      XXXIX. BRUTAL KAFFIRS' MURDER TRAIL                 402

         XL. CAPTURING A FREEBOOTER'S LAIR                411

        XLI. AMBUSHING THE HUSSARS                        416

       XLII. I TALK WITH GENERAL BLOOD                    421

      XLIII. MRS. BOTHA'S BABY AND THE "TOMMY"            425

       XLIV. THE LAST CHRISTMAS OF THE WAR                435

        XLV. MY LAST DAYS ON THE VELDT                    442

       XLVI. I AM AMBUSHED AND CAPTURED                   449

      XLVII. SHIPPED TO ST. HELENA                        462

     XLVIII. LIFE IN BONAPARTE'S PRISON                   471

       XLIX. HOW WE BLEW UP AND CAPTURED TRAINS           485

          L. HOW WE FED AND CLOTHED COMMANDOS             496

         LI. OUR FRIEND THE ENEMY                         506

        LII. THE FIGHTING BOER AND HIS OFFICER            515

             APPENDIX                                     523

THE AUTHOR TO THE READER.

In offering my readers my reminiscences of the late War, I feel that it is necessary to ask
their indulgence and to plead extenuating circumstances for many obvious shortcomings.

It should be pointed out that the preparation of this work was attended with many difficulties
and disabilities, of which the following were only a few:--

     (1) This is my first attempt at writing a book, and as a
     simple Afrikander I lay no claim to any literary ability.

     (2) When captured by the British forces I was deprived of
     all my notes, and have been compelled to consult and depend
     largely upon my memory for my facts and data. I would wish
     to add, however, that the notes and minutiæ they took from
     me referred only to events and incidents covering six months
     of the War. Twice before my capture, various diaries I had
     compiled fell into British hands; and on a third occasion,
     when our camp at Dalmanutha was burned out by a
     "grass-fire," other notes were destroyed.

     (3) I wrote this book while a prisoner-of-war, fettered, as
     it were, by the strong chains with which a British "parole"
     is circumscribed. I was, so to say, bound hand and foot, and
     always made to feel sensibly the humiliating position to
     which we, as prisoners-of-war on this island, were reduced.
     Our unhappy lot was rendered unnecessarily unpleasant by the
     insulting treatment offered us by Colonel Price, who
     appeared to me an excellent prototype of Napoleon's
     custodian, Sir Hudson Lowe. One has only to read Lord
     Rosebery's work, "The Last Phase of Napoleon," to realise
     the insults and indignities Sir Hudson Lowe heaped upon a
     gallant enemy.

We Boers experienced similar treatment from our custodian, Colonel Price, who appeared to be
possessed with the very demon of distrust and who conjured up about us the same fantastic and
mythical plans of escape as Sir Hudson Lowe attributed to Napoleon. It is to his absurd suspicions
about our safe custody that I trace the bitterly offensive regulations enforced on us.

While engaged upon this work, Colonel Price could have pounced down upon me at any moment,
and, having discovered the manuscript, would certainly have promptly pronounced the writing
of it in conflict with the terms of my "parole."

I have striven as far as possible to refrain from criticism, except when compelled to do so,
and to give a coherent story, so that the reader may easily follow the episodes I have sketched.
I have also endeavoured to be impartial, or, at least, so impartial as an erring human being
can be who has just quitted the bloody battlefields of a bitter struggle.

But the sword is still wet, and the wound is not yet healed.

I would assure my readers that it has not been without hesitation that I launch this work upon
the world. There have been many amateur and professional writers who have preceded me in overloading
the reading public with what purport to be "true histories" of the War. But having been approached
by friends to add my little effort to the ponderous tomes of War literature, I have written
down that which I saw with my own eyes, and that which I personally experienced. If seeing
is believing, the reader may lend credence to my recital of every incident I have herein recounted.

During the last stages of the struggle, when we were isolated from the outside world, we read
in newspapers and other printed matter captured from the British so many romantic and fabulous
stories about ourselves, that we were sometimes in doubt whether people in Europe and elsewhere
would really believe that we were ordinary human beings and not legendary monsters. On these
occasions I read circumstantial reports of my death, and once a long, and by no means flattering,
obituary (extending over several columns of a newspaper) in which I was compared to Garibaldi,
"Jack the Ripper," and Aguinaldo. On another occasion I learned from British newspapers of
my capture, conviction, and execution in the Cape Colony for wearing the insignia of the Red
Cross. I read that I had been brought before a military court at De Aar and sentenced to be
shot, and what was worse, the sentence was duly confirmed and carried out. A very lurid picture
was drawn of the execution. Bound to a chair, and placed near my open grave, I had met my doom
with "rare stoicism and fortitude." "At last," concluded my amiable biographer, "this scoundrel,
robber, and guerilla leader, Viljoen, has been safely removed, and will trouble the British
Army no longer." I also learned with mingled feelings of amazement and pride that, being imprisoned
at Mafeking at the commencement of hostilities, General Baden-Powell had kindly exchanged me
for Lady Sarah Wilson.

To be honest, none of the above-mentioned reports were strictly accurate. I can assure the
reader that I was never killed in action or executed at De Aar, I was never in Mafeking or
any other prison in my life (save here at St. Helena), nor was I in the Cape Colony during
the War. I never masqueraded with a Red Cross, and I was never exchanged for Lady Sarah Wilson.
Her ladyship's friends would have found me a very poor exchange.

It is also quite inaccurate and unfair to describe me as a "thief" and "a scoundrel". It was,
indeed, not an heroic thing to do, seeing that the chivalrous gentlemen of the South African
Press who employed the epithets were safely beyond my view and reach, and I had no chance of
correcting their quite erroneous impressions. I could neither refute nor defend myself against
their infamous libels, and for the rest, my friend "Mr. Atkins" kept us all exceedingly busy.

That which is left of Ben Viljoen after the several "coups de grace" in the field and the tragic
execution at De Aar, still "pans" out at a fairly robust young person--quite an ordinary young
fellow, indeed, thirty-four years of age, of middle height and build. Somewhere in the Marais
Quartier of Paris--where the French Huguenots came from--there was an ancestral Viljoen from
whom I am descended. In the War just concluded I played no great part of my own seeking. I
met many compatriots who were better soldiers than myself; but on occasions I was happily of
some small service to my Cause and to my people.

The chapters I append are, like myself, simple in form. If I have become notorious it is not
my fault; it is the fault of the newspaper paragraphist, the snap-shooter, and the autograph
fiend; and in these pages I have endeavoured, as far as possible, to leave the stage to more
prominent actors, merely offering myself as guide to the many battlefields on which we have
waged our unhappy struggle.

I shall not disappoint the reader by promising him sensational or thrilling episodes. He will
find none such in these pages; he will find only a naked and unembellished story.

                         BEN J. VILJOEN.
                    (Assistant Commandant-General
                      of the Republican Forces.)

  St. Helena,
                                   June, 1902

MY REMINISCENCES

OF THE

ANGLO-BOER WAR

CHAPTER I.

THE WAR CLOUDS GATHER.

In 1895 the political clouds gathered thickly and grew threatening. They were unmistakable
in their portent. War was meant, and we heard the martial thunder rumbling over our heads.

The storm broke in the shape of an invasion from Rhodesia on our Western frontiers, a raid
planned by soldiers of a friendly power.

However one may endeavour to argue the chief cause of the South African war to other issues,
it remains an irrebuttable fact that the Jameson Raid was primarily responsible for the hostilities
which eventually took place between Great Britain and the Boer Republics.

Mr. Rhodes, the sponsor and deus ex machinâ of the Raid, could not agree with Mr. Paul Kruger,
and had failed in his efforts to establish friendly relations with him. Mr. Kruger, quite as
stubborn and ambitious as Mr. Rhodes, placed no faith in the latter's amiable proposals, and
the result was that fierce hatred was engendered between the two Gideons, a racial rancour
spreading to fanatical lengths.

Dr. Jameson's stupid raid is now a matter of history; but from that fateful New Year's Day
of 1896 we Boers date the terrible trials and sufferings to which our poor country has been
exposed. To that mischievous incident, indeed, we directly trace the struggle now terminated.

This invasion, which was synchronous with an armed rebellion at Johannesburg, was followed
by the arrest and imprisonment of the so-called gold magnates of the Witwatersrand. Whether
these exceedingly wealthy but extremely degenerate sons of Albion and Germania deserved the
death sentence pronounced upon their leaders at Pretoria for high treason it is not for me
to judge.

I do recall, however, what an appeal for mercy there went up, how piteously the Transvaal Government
was petitioned and supplicated, and finally moved "to forgive and forget." The same faction
who now press so obdurately for "no mercy" upon the Colonial Afrikanders who joined us, then
supplicated all the Boer gods for forgiveness.

Meantime the Republic was plagued by the rinderpest scourge, which wrought untold havoc throughout
the country. This scourge was preceded by the dynamite disaster at Vrededorp (near Johannesburg)
and the railway disaster at Glencoe in Natal. It was succeeded by a smallpox epidemic, which,
in spite of medical efforts, grew from sporadic to epidemic and visited all classes of the
Rand, exacting victims wherever it travelled. During the same period difficulties occurred
in Swaziland necessitating the despatch of a strong commando to the disaffected district and
the maintenance of a garrison at Bremersdorp. The following year hostilities were commenced
against the Magato tribe in the north of the Republic.

After an expensive expedition, lasting six months, the rebellion was quelled. There was little
doubt that the administration of unfaithful native commissioners was in part responsible for
the difficulties, but there is less doubt that external influences also contributed to the
rebellion. This is not the time, however, to tear open old wounds.

Mr. Rhodes has disappeared from the stage for ever; he died as he had lived. His relentless
enemy Mr. Kruger, who was pulling the strings at the other end, is still alive. Perhaps the
old man may be spared to see the end of the bloody drama; it was undoubtedly he and Mr. Rhodes
who played the leading parts in the prologue.

Which of these two "Big Men" took the greatest share in bringing about the Disaster which has
drenched South Africa with blood and draped it in mourning, it would be improper for me at
this period to suggest. Mr. Rhodes has been summoned before a Higher Tribunal; Mr. Kruger has
still to come up for judgment before the people whose fate, and very existence as a nation,
are, at the time of writing, wavering in the balance.

We have been at one another's throats, and for this we have to thank our "statesmen." It is
to be hoped that our leaders of the future will attach more value to human lives, and that
Boer and Briton will be enabled to live amicably side by side.

A calm and statesmanlike government by men free from ambition and racial rancour, by men of
unblemished reputation, will be the only means of pacifying South Africa and keeping South
Africa pacified.

CHAPTER II.

AND THE WAR STORM BREAKS.

It was during a desultory discussion of an ordinary sessions of the Second Volksraad, in which
I represented Johannesburg, that one day in September, 1899--to be precise, the afternoon of
the 28th--the messenger of the House came to me with a note, and whispered, "A message from
General Joubert, Sir; it is urgent, and the General says it requires your immediate attention."

I broke the seal of the envelope with some trepidation. I guessed its contents, and a few of
my colleagues in the Chamber hung over me almost speechless with excitement, whispering curiously,
"Jong, is dit fout?"--"Is this correct. Is it war?"

Everybody knew, of course, that we were in for a supreme crisis, that the relations between
Great Britain and our Republic were strained to the bursting point, that bitter diplomatic
notes had been exchanged between the governments of the two countries for months past, and
that a collision, an armed collision, was sooner or later inevitable.

Being "Fighting-Commandant" of the Witwatersrand goldfields, and, therefore, an officer of
the Transvaal army, my movements on that day excited great interest among my colleagues in
the Chamber. After reading General Joubert's note I said, as calmly as possible: "Yes, the
die is cast; I am leaving for the Natal frontier. Good-bye. I must now quit the house. Who
knows, perhaps for ever!"

General Joubert's mandate was couched as follows:--

     "You are hereby ordered to proceed with the Johannesburg
     commando to Volksrust to-morrow, Friday evening, at 8
     o'clock. Your field cornets have already received
     instructions to commandeer the required number of burghers
     and the necessary horses, waggons, and equipment.
     Instructions have also been given for the necessary railway
     conveyances to be held ready. Further instructions will
     reach you."

Previous to my departure next morning I made a hurried call at Commandant-General Joubert's
offices. The ante-chamber leading to the Generalissimo's "sanctum-sanctorum" was crowded with
brilliantly-uniformed officers of our State Artillery, and it was only by dint of using my
elbows very vigorously that I gained admission to my chief-in-command.

The old General seemed to feel keenly the gravity of the situation. He looked careworn and
troubled: "Good-morning, Commandant," he said; "aren't you away yet?"

I explained that I was on my way to the railway station, but I thought before I left I'd like
to see him about one or two things.

"Well, go on, what is it?" General Joubert enquired, petulantly.

"I want to know, General Joubert," I said, "whether England has declared war against us, or
whether we are taking the lead. And another thing, what sort of general have I to report myself
to at Volksrust?"

The old warrior, without looking up or immediately answering me, drew various cryptic and hieroglyphic
pothooks and figures on the paper before him. Then he suddenly lifted his eyes and pierced
me with a look, at which I quailed and trembled.

He said very slowly: "Look here; there is as yet no declaration of war, and hostilities have
not yet commenced. You and my other officers should understand that very clearly, because possibly
the differences between ourselves and Great Britain may still be settled. We are only going
to occupy our frontiers because England's attitude is extremely provocative, and if England
see that we are fully prepared and that we do not fear her threats, she will perhaps be wise
in time and reconsider the situation. We also want to place ourselves in a position to prevent
and quell a repetition of the Jameson Raid with more force than we exerted in 1896."

An hour afterwards I was on board a train travelling to Johannesburg in the company of General
Piet Cronje and his faithful wife. General Cronje told me that he was proceeding to the western
districts of the Republic to take up the command of the Potchefstroom and Lichtenburg burghers.
His instructions, he said, were to protect the Western frontier.

I left General Cronje at Johannesburg on the 29th September, 1899, and never saw him again
until I met him at St. Helena nearly two and a half years afterwards, on the 25th March, 1902.
When I last saw him we greeted each other as free men, as free and independent legislators
and officers of a free Republic. We fought for our rights to live as a nation.

Now I meet the veteran Cronje a broken old man, captive like myself, far away from our homes
and our country.

Then and Now!

Then we went abroad free and freedom-loving men, burning with patriotism. Our wives and our
women-folk watched us go; full of sorrow and anxiety, but satisfied that we were going abroad
in our country's cause.

And Now!

Two promising and prosperous Republics wrecked, their fair homesteads destroyed, their people
in mourning, and thousands of innocent women and children the victims of a cruel war.

There is scarcely an Afrikander family without an unhealable wound. Everywhere the traces of
the bloody struggle; and, alas, most poignant and distressing fact of all, burghers who fought
side by side with us in the earlier stages of the struggle are now to be found in the ranks
of the enemy.

These wretched men, ignoring their solemn duty, left their companions in the lurch without
sense of shame or respect for the braves who fell fighting for their land and people.

Oh, day of judgment! The Afrikander nation will yet avenge your treachery.

CHAPTER III.

THE INVASION OF NATAL.

After taking leave of my friend Cronje at Johannesburg Station, my first duty was to visit
my various field cornets. About four o'clock that afternoon I found my commando was as nearly
ready as could be expected. When I say ready, I mean ready on paper only, as later experience
showed. My three field cornets were required to equip 900 mounted men with waggons and provisions,
and of course they had carte blanche to commandeer. Only fully enfranchised burghers of the
South African Republic were liable to be commandeered, and in Johannesburg town there was an
extraordinary conglomeration of cosmopolitans amenable to this gentle process of enlistment.

