[18] HERODOTUS, i. 193: Hê de gê tôn Assuriôn huetai men oligôi.

[19] LOFTUS, Susiana and Chaldæa, i. vol. 8vo. 1857, London, p. 73.

[20] LOFTUS, Susiana and Chaldæa, p. 73; LAYARD, Discoveries in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon,
p. 146 (i. vol. 8vo. 1853).

[21] HERODOTUS, exaggerates this difference, but it is a real one. "The plant," he says, "is
nourished and the ears formed by means of irrigation from the river. For this river does not,
as in Egypt, overflow the cornlands of its own accord, but is spread over them by the hand
or by the help of engines," i. 193. [Our quotations are from Prof. Rawlinson's Herodotus (4
vols. 8vo. 1875; Murray); Ed.] The inundations of the Tigris and Euphrates do not play so important
a rôle in the lives of the inhabitants of Mesopotamia, as that of the Nile in those of the
Egyptians.

[22] LAYARD, A Second Series of the Monuments of Nineveh, plate 27 (London, oblong folio, 1853).

[23] LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 551-556; LOFTUS, Chaldæa and Susiana, chap. x.

[24] LAYARD (Discoveries, pp. 467, 468 and 475) tells us what the Turks "have made of two of
the finest rivers in the world, one of which is navigable for 850 miles from its mouth, and
the other for 600 miles."

[25] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. i. p. 78 (1849).

[26] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. ii. pp. 68-75.

[27] HERODOTUS, i. 193.

§ 3.--The Primitive Elements of the Population.

The two great factors of all life and of all vegetable production are water and warmth, so
that of the two great divisions of the country we have just described, the more southern must
have been the first inhabited, or at least, the first to invite and aid its inhabitants to
make trial of civilization.

In the north the two great rivers are far apart. The vast spaces which separate them include
many districts which have always been, and must ever be, very difficult of irrigation, and
consequently of cultivation. In the south, on the other hand, below the thirty-fourth degree
of latitude, the Tigris and Euphrates approach each other until a day's march will carry the
traveller from one to the other; and for a distance of some eighty leagues, ending but little
short of the point of junction, their beds are almost parallel. In spite of the heat, which
is, of course, greater than in northern Mesopotamia, nothing is easier than to carry the blessings
of irrigation over the whole of such a region. When the water in the rivers and canals is low,
it can be raised by the aid of simple machines, similar in principle to those we described
in speaking of Egypt.[28]

It is here, therefore, that we must look for the scene of the first attempts in Asia to pass
from the anxious and uncertain life of the fisherman, the hunter, or the nomad shepherd, to
that of the sedentary husbandman, rooted to the soil by the pains he has taken to improve its
capabilities, and by the homestead he has reared at the border of his fields. In the tenth
and eleventh chapters of Genesis we have an echo of the earliest traditions preserved by the
Semitic race of their distant origin. There is no room for mistake. When the sacred writer
wishes to tell us the origin of human society, he transports us into Lower Mesopotamia. It
is there that he causes the posterity of Noah to build the first great city, Babel, the prototype
of the Babylon of history; it is there that he tells us the confusion of tongues was accomplished,
and that the common centre existed from which men spread themselves over the whole surface
of the earth, to become different nations. The oldest cities known to the collector of these
traditions were those of Chaldæa, of the region bordering on the Persian Gulf. Inscriptions
from which fresh secrets are wrested day by day; ruins of buildings whose dates are to be approximately
divined from their plans, their structure, and their decorations; statues, statuettes, bas-reliefs,
and all the various débris of a great civilization, when studied with the industrious ardour
which distinguishes modern science, enable the critic to realize the vast antiquity of those
Chaldæan cities, in which legend and history are so curiously mingled.

Even before they could decipher their meaning Assyriologists had compared, from the palæographic
point of view, the different varieties of the written character known as cuneiform--a character
which lent itself for some two thousand years, to the notation of the five or six successive
languages, at least, in which the inhabitants of Western Asia expressed their thoughts. These
wedge-shaped characters are found in their most primitive and undeveloped forms in the mounds
dotted over the southern districts of Mesopotamia, in company with the earliest signs of those
types which are especially characteristic of the architecture, ornamentation, and plastic figuration
of Assyria.

There is another particular in which the monumental records and the biblical tradition are
in accord. During those obscure centuries that saw the work sketched out from which the civilization
of the Tigris and Euphrates basin was, in time, to be developed, the Chaldæan population was
not homogeneous; the country was inhabited by tribes who had neither a common origin nor a
common language. This we are told in Genesis. The earliest chiefs to build cities in Shinar
are there personified in the person of Nimrod, who is the son of Cush, and the grandson of
Ham. He and his people must be placed, therefore, in the same family as the Ethiopians, the
Egyptians, and the Libyans, the Canaanites and the Phoenicians.[31]

A little lower down in the same genealogical table we find attached to the posterity of Shem
that Asshur who, as we are told in the verses quoted above, left the plains of Shinar in order
to found Nineveh in the upper country.[32] So, too, it was from Ur of the Chaldees that Terah,
another descendant of Shem, and, through Abraham, the ancestor of the Jewish people, came up
into Canaan.[33]

The world has, unhappily, lost the work of Berosus, the Babylonish priest, who, under the Seleucidæ,
did for Chaldæa what Manetho was doing almost at the same moment for Egypt.[34] Berosus compiled
the history of Chaldæa from the national chronicles and traditions. The loss of his work is
still more to be lamented than that of Manetho. The wedges may never, perhaps, be read with
as much certainty as the hieroglyphs; the remains of Chaldæo-Assyrian antiquity are much less
copious and well preserved than those of the Egyptian civilization, while the gap in the existing
documents are more frequent and of a different character. And yet much precious information,
especially in these latter days, has been drawn from those fragments of his work which have
come down to us. In one of these we find the following evidence as to the mixture of races:
"At first there were at Babylon a great number of men belonging to the different nationalities
that colonized Chaldæa."[35]

How far did that diversity go? The terms used by Berosus are vague enough, while the Hebraic
tradition seems to have preserved the memory of only two races who lived one after the other
in Chaldæa, namely, the Kushites and the Shemites. And may not these groups, though distinct,
have been more closely connected than the Jews were willing to admit? We know how bitterly
the Jews hated those Canaanitish races against whom they waged their long and destructive wars;
and it is possible that, in order to mark the separation between themselves and their abhorred
enemies, they may have shut their eyes to the exaggeration of the distance between the two
peoples. More than one historian is inclined to believe that the Kushites and Shemites were
less distantly related than the Hebrew writers pretend. Almost every day criticism discovers
new points of resemblance between the Jews before the captivity and certain of their neighbours,
such as the Phoenicians. Almost the same language was spoken by each; each had the same arts
and the same symbols, while many rites and customs were common to both. Baal and Moloch were
adored in Judah and Israel as well as in Tyre and Sidon. This is not the proper place to discuss
such a question, but, whatever view we may take of it, it seems that the researches of Assyriologists
have led to the following conclusion: That primitive Chaldæa received and retained various
ethnic elements upon its fertile soil; that those elements in time became fused together, and
that, even in the beginning, the diversities that distinguished them one from another were
less marked than a literal acceptance of the tenth chapter of Genesis might lead us to believe.

We cannot here undertake to explain all the conjectures to which this point has given rise.
We are without some, at least, of the qualifications necessary for the due appreciation of
the proofs, or rather of the probabilities, which are relied on by the exponents of this or
that hypothesis. We must refer curious readers to the works of contemporary Assyriologists;
or they may, if they will, find all the chief facts brought together in the writings of MM.
Maspero and François Lenormant, whom we shall often have occasion to quote.[36] We shall be
content with giving, in as few words as possible, the theory which appears at present to be
generally admitted.

There is no doubt as to the presence in Chaldæa of the Kushite tribes. It is the Kushites,
as represented by Nimrod, who are mentioned in Genesis before any of the others; a piece of
evidence which is indirectly confirmed by the nomenclature of the Greek writers. They often
employed the terms Kissaioi and Kissioi to denote the peoples who belonged to this very part
of Asia,[37] terms under which it is easy to recognize imperfect transliterations of a name
that began its last syllable in the Semitic tongues with the sound we render by sh. As the
Greeks had no letters corresponding to our h and j, they had to do the best they could with
breathings. Their descendants had to make the same shifts when they became subject to the Turks,
and had to express every word of their conqueror's language without possessing any signs for
those sounds of sh and j in which it abounded.

The same vocable is preserved to our day in the name borne by one of the provinces of Persia,
Khouzistan. The objection that the Kissaioi or Kissioi of the classic writers and poets were
placed in Susiana rather than in Chaldæa will no longer be made. Susiana borders upon Chaldæa
and belongs, like it, to the basin of the Tigris. There is no natural frontier between the
two countries, which were closely connected both in peace and war. On the other hand, the name
of Ethiopians, often applied by the same authors to the dwellers upon the Persian Gulf and
the Sea of Oman, recalls the relationship which attached the Kushites of Asia to those of Africa
in the Hebrew genealogies.

We have still stronger reasons of the same kind for affirming that the Shemites or Semites
occupied an important place in Chaldæa from the very beginning. Linguistic knowledge here comes
to the aid of the biblical narrative and confirms its ethnographical data. The language in
which most of our cuneiform inscriptions are written, the language, that is, that we call Assyrian,
is closely allied to the Hebrew. Towards the period of the second Chaldee Empire, another dialect
of the same family, the Aramaic, seems to have been in common use from one end of Mesopotamia
to the other. A comparative study of the rites and religious beliefs of the Semitic races would
lead us to the same result. Finally, there is something very significant in the facility with
which classic writers confuse such terms as Chaldæans, Assyrians, and Syrians; it would seem
that they recognized but one people between the Isthmus of Suez on the south and the Taurus
on the north, between the seaboard of Phoenicia on the west and the table lands of Iran in
the east. In our day the dominant language over the whole of the vast extent of territory which
is inclosed by those boundaries is Arabic, as it was Syriac during the early centuries of our
era, and Aramaic under the Persians and the successors of Alexander. From the commencement
of historic times the Semitic element has never ceased to play the chief rôle from one end
of that region to the other. For Syria proper, its pre-eminence is attested by a number of
facts which leave no room for doubt. Travellers and historians classed the inhabitants of Mesopotamia
with those of Phoenicia and Palestine, because, to their unaccustomed ears, the differences
between their languages were hardly perceptible, while their personal characteristics were
practically identical. Such affinities and resemblances are only to be explained by a common
origin, though the point of junction may have been distant.

It has also been asserted that an Aryan element helped to compose the population of primitive
Chaldæa, that sister tribes to those of India and Persia, Armenia and Asia Minor furnished
their contingents to the mixed population of Shinar. Some have even declared that a time came
when those tribes obtained the chief power. It may have been so, but the evidence upon which
the hypothesis rests is very slight. Granting that the Aryans did settle in Chaldæa, they were
certainly far less numerous than the other colonists, and were so rapidly absorbed into the
ranks of the majority that neither history nor language has preserved any sensible trace of
their existence. We may therefore leave them out of the argument until fresh evidence is forthcoming.

But the students of the inscriptions had another, and, if we accept the theories of MM. Oppert
and François Lenormant, a better-founded, surprise in store for us. It seemed improbable that
science would ever succeed in mounting beyond those remote tribes, the immediate descendants
of Kush and Shem, who occupied Chaldæa at the dawn of history; they formed, to all appearance,
the most distant background, the deepest stratum, to which the historian could hope to penetrate;
and yet, when the most ancient epigraphic texts began to yield up their secrets, the interpreters
were confronted, as they assure us, with this startling fact: the earliest language spoken,
or, at least, written, in that country, belonged neither to the Aryan nor to the Semitic family,
nor even to those African languages among which the ancient idiom of Egypt has sometimes been
placed; it was, in an extreme degree, what we now call an agglutinative language. By its grammatical
system and by some elements of its vocabulary it suggests a comparison with Finnish, Turkish,
and kindred tongues.

Other indications, such as the social and religious conditions revealed by the texts, have
combined with these characteristics to convince our Assyriologists that the first dwellers
in Chaldæa--the first, that is, who made any attempt at civilization--were Turanians, were
part of that great family of peoples who still inhabit the north of Europe and Asia, from the
marshes of the Baltic to the banks of the Amoor and the shores of the Pacific Ocean.[38] The
languages of all those peoples, though various enough, had certain features in common. No one
of them reached the delicate and complex mechanism of internal and terminal inflexion; they
were guiltless of the subtle processes by which Aryans and Semites expressed the finest shades
of thought, and, by declining the substantive and conjugating the verb, subordinated the secondary
to the principal idea; they did not understand how to unite, in an intimate and organic fashion,
the root to its qualifications and determinatives, to the adjectives and phrases which give
colour to a word, and indicate the precise rôle it has to play in the sentence in which it
is used. These languages resemble each other chiefly in their lacunæ. Compare them in the dictionaries
and they seem very different, especially if we take two, such as Finnish and Chinese, that
are separated by the whole width of a continent.

It is the same with their physical types. Certain tribes whom we place in the Turanian group
have all the distinctive characteristics of the white races. Others are hardly to be distinguished
from the yellow nations. Between these two extremes there are numerous varieties which carry
us, without any abrupt transition, from the most perfect European to the most complete Chinese
type.[39] In the Aryan family the ties of blood are perceptible even between the most divergent
branches. By a comparative study of their languages, traditions, and religious conceptions,
it has been proved that the Hindoos upon the Ganges, the Germans on the Rhine, and the Celts
upon the Loire, are all offshoots of a single stem. Among the Turanians the connections between
one race and another are only perceptible in the case of tribes living in close neighbourhood
to one another, who have had mutual relations over a long course of years. In such a case the
natural affinities are easily seen, and a family of peoples can be established with certainty.
The classification is less definitely marked and clearly divided than that of the Aryan and
Semitic families; but, nevertheless, it has a real value for the historian.[40]

According to the doctrine which now seems most widely accepted, it was from the crowded ranks
of the immense army which peopled the north that the tribes who first attempted a civilized
life in the plains of Shinar and the fertile slopes between the mountains and the left bank
of the Tigris, were thrown off. It is thought that these tribes already possessed a national
constitution, a religion, and a system of legislation, the art of writing and the most essential
industries, when they first took possession of the lands in question.[41] A tradition still
current among the eastern Turks puts the cradle of the race in the valleys of the Altaï, north
of the plateau of Pamir.[42] Whether the emigrants into Chaldæa brought the rudiments of their
civilization with them, or whether their inventive faculties were only stirred to action after
their settlement in that fertile land, is of slight importance. In any case we may say that
they were the first to put the soil into cultivation, and to found industrious and stationary
communities along the banks of its two great rivers. Once settled in Chaldæa, they called themselves,
according to M. Oppert, the people of SUMER, a title which is continually associated with that
of "the people of ACCAD" in the inscriptions.[43]

NOTES:

[28] History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 15 (London, 1883, Chapman and Hall). Upon
the Chaldæan chadoufs see LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 109, 110.

[29] Genesis xi. 2.

[30] Genesis x. 8-12.

[31] Genesis x. 6-20.

[32] Genesis x. 22: "The children of Shem."

[33] Genesis xi. 27-32.

[34] In his paper upon the Date des Écrits qui portent les Noms de Bérose et de Manéthou (Hachette,
8vo. 1873), M. ERNEST HAVET has attempted to show that neither of those writers, at least as
they are presented in the fragments which have come down to us, deserve the credence which
is generally accorded to them. The paper is the production of a vigorous and independent intellect,
and there are many observations which should be carefully weighed, but we do not believe that,
as a whole, its hypercritical conclusions have any chance of being adopted. All recent progress
in Egyptology and Assyriology goes to prove that the fragments in question contain much authentic
and precious information, in spite of the carelessness with which they were transcribed, often
at second and third hand, by abbreviators of the basse époque.

[35] See § 2 of Fragment 1. of BEROSUS, in the Fragmenta Historicorum Græcorum of CH. MÜLLER
(Bibliothèque Grecque-Latine of Didot), vol. ii. p. 496; En de tê Babulôni polu plêthos anthrôpôn
genesthai alloethnôn katoikêsantôn tên Chaldaian.

[36] Gaston MASPERO, Histoire ancienne des Peuples de l'Orient, liv. ii. ch. iv. La Chaldée.
François LENORMANT, Manuel d'Histoire ancienne de l'Orient, liv. iv. ch. i. (3rd edition).

[37] The principal texts in which these terms are to be met with are brought together in the
Wörterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen of PAPE (3rd edition), under the words Kissia, Kissioi,
Kossaioi.

[38] A single voice, that of M. Halévy, is now raised to combat this opinion. He denies that
there is need to search for any language but a Semitic one in the oldest of the Chaldæan inscriptions.
According to him, the writing under which a Turanian idiom is said to lurk, is no more than
a variation upon the Assyrian fashion of noting words, than an early form of writing which
owed its preservation to the quasi-sacred character imparted by its extreme antiquity. We have
no intention of discussing his thesis in these pages; we must refer those who are interested
in the problem to M. HALÉVY'S dissertation in the Journal Asiatique for June 1874: Observations
critiques sur les prétendus Touraniens de la Babylonie. M. Stanislas Guyard shares the ideas
of M. Halévy, to whom his accurate knowledge and fine critical powers afford no little support.

[39] MASPERO, Histoire ancienne, p. 134. Upon the etymology of Turanians see MAX MÜLLER'S Science
of Language, 2nd edition, p. 300, et seq. Upon the constituent characteristics of the Turanian
group of races and languages other pages of the same work may be consulted.... The distinction
between Turan and Iran is to be found in the literature of ancient Persia, but its importance
became greater in the Middle Ages, as may be seen by reference to the great epic of Firdusi,
the Shah-Nameh. The kings of Iran and Turan are there represented as implacable enemies. It
was from the Persian tradition that Professor Müller borrowed the term which is now generally
used to denote those northern races of Asia that are neither Aryans nor Semites.

[40] This family is sometimes called Ural-Altaïc, a term formed in similar fashion to that
of Indo-Germanic, which has now been deposed by the term Aryan. It is made up of the names
of two mountain chains which seem to mark out the space over which its tribes were spread.
Like the word Indo-Germanic, it made pretensions to exactitude which were only partially justified.

[41] This is the opinion of M. OPPERT. He was led to the conclusion that their writing was
invented in a more northern climate than that of Chaldæa, by a close study of its characters.
There is one sign representing a bear, an animal which does not exist in Chaldæa, while the
lions which were to be found there in such numbers had to be denoted by paraphrase, they were
called great dogs. The palm tree had no sign of its own. See in the Journal Asiatique for 1875,
p. 466, a note to an answer to M. Halévy entitled Summérien ou rien.

[42] MASPERO, Histoire ancienne, p. 135.

[43] These much disputed terms, Sumer and Accad, are, according to MM. Halévy and Guyard, nothing
but the geographical titles of two districts of Lower Chaldæa.

§ 4.--The Wedges.

The writing of Chaldæa, like that of Egypt, was, in the beginning, no more than the abridged
and conventionalized representation of familiar objects. The principle was identical with that
of the Egyptian hieroglyphs and of the oldest Chinese characters. There are no texts extant
in which images are exclusively used,[44] but we can point to a few where the ideograms have
preserved their primitive forms sufficiently to enable us to recognize their origin with certainty.
Among those Assyrian syllabaries which have been so helpful in the decipherment of the wedges,
there is one tablet where the primitive form of each symbol is placed opposite the group of
strokes which had the same value in after ages.[45]

This tablet is, however, quite exceptional, and, as a rule, the cuneiform characters cannot
thus be traced to their primitive form. But well-ascertained and independent facts allow us
to come to certain conclusions which even this scanty evidence is enough to confirm.

In inventing the process of writing and bringing it to perfection, the human intellect worked
on the same lines among the Turanians of Chaldæa as it did everywhere else. The point of departure
and the early stages have been the same for all peoples, although some have stopped half-way
and others when three-fourths of the journey were complete. The supreme discovery which should
crown the effort is the attribution of a special sign to each of the elementary articulations
of the human voice. This final object, an object towards which the most gifted nations of antiquity
were working for so many centuries, was just missed by the Egyptians. They were, we may say,
wrecked in port, and the glory of creating the alphabet that men will use as long as they think
and write was reserved for the Phoenicians.

Even when their civilization was at its height the Babylonians never came so near to alphabetism
as the Egyptians. This is not the place for an inquiry into the reasons of their failure, nor
even for an explanation how signs with a phonetic value forced themselves in among the ideograms,
and became gradually more and more important. Our interest in the two kinds of writing is of
a different nature; we have to learn and explain their influence upon the plastic arts in the
countries where they were used.

In our attempt to define the style of Egyptian sculpture and to give reasons for its peculiar
characteristics, we felt obliged to attribute great importance to the habits of eye and hand
suggested and confirmed by the cutting and painting of the hieroglyphs. In their monumental
inscriptions, if nowhere else, the symbols of the Egyptian system retained their concrete imagery
to the end; and the images, though abridged and simplified, never lost their resemblance;[46]
and if it is necessary to know something more than the particular animal or thing which they
represent before we can get at their meaning, that is only because in most cases they had a
metaphorical or even a purely phonetic signification as well as their ideographic one. For
the most part, however, it is easy to recognize their origin, and in this they differ greatly
from the symbols of the first Chaldæan alphabet. In the very oldest documents there are certain
ideograms that, when we are warned, remind us of the natural objects from which their forms
have been taken, but the connection is slight and difficult of apprehension. Even in the case
of those characters whose forms most clearly suggest their true figurative origin, it would
have been impossible to assign its prototype to each without the help of later texts, where,
with more or less modification, they formed parts of sentences whose general significance was
known. Finally, the Assyrian syllabaries have preserved the meaning of signs, that, so far
as we can judge, would otherwise have been stumbling-blocks even to the wise men of Nineveh
when they were confronted with such ancient inscriptions as those whose fragments are still
found among the ruins of Lower Chaldæa.

Even in the remote days that saw the most venerable of these inscriptions cut, the images upon
which their forms were based had been rendered almost unrecognizable by a curious habit, or
caprice, which is unique in history. Writing had not yet become entirely cuneiform, it had
not yet adopted those triangular strokes which are called sometimes nails, sometimes arrow-heads,
and sometimes wedges, as the exclusive constituents of its character. If we examine the tablets
recovered by Mr. Loftus from the ruins of Warka, the ancient Erech (Fig. 1), or the inscriptions
upon the diorite statues found at Tello by M. de Sarzec (Fig. 2), we shall find that in the
distant period from which those writings date, most of the characters had what we may call
an unbroken trace.[47] This trace, like that of the hieroglyphs, would have been well fitted
for the succinct imitation of natural objects but for a rigid exclusion of those curves of
which nature is so fond. This exclusion is complete, all the lines are straight, and cut one
another at various angles. The horror of a curve is pushed so far that even the sun, which
is represented by a circle in Egyptian and other ideographic systems, is here a lozenge.

It is very unlikely that even the oldest of these texts show us Chaldæan writing in its earliest
stage. Analogy would lead us to think that these figures must at one time have been more directly
imitative. However that may have been, the image must have been very imperfect from the day
that the rectilinear trace came into general use. Figures must then have rapidly degenerated
into conventional signs. Those who used them could no longer pretend to actually represent
the objects they wished to denote. They must have been content to suggest their ideas by means
of a character whose value had been determined by usage. This transformation would be accelerated
by certain habits which forced themselves upon the people as soon as they were finally established
in the land of Shinar.

We are told that there are certain expressions in the Assyrian language which lead to the belief
that the earliest writing was on the bark of trees, that it offered the first surface to the
scribe in those distant northern regions from which the early inhabitants of Chaldæa were emigrants.
It is certain that the dwellers in that vast alluvial plain were compelled by the very nature
of the soil to use clay for many purposes to which no other civilization has put it. In Mesopotamia,
as in the valley of the Nile, the inhabitants had but to stoop to pick up an excellent modelling
clay, fine in texture and close grained--a clay which had been detached from the mountain sides
by the two great rivers, and deposited in inexhaustible quantities over the whole width of
the double valley. We shall see hereafter what an important part bricks, crude, fired, and
enamelled, played in the construction and decoration of Chaldæan buildings. It was the same
material that received most of their writing.

