The Holy Scripture is far from contemplating the exceptional cases of infallible definitions
when it lays down the command: "Remember them, who have the rule over you, who have spoken
unto you the word of God, whose faith follow". And, "obey them that have the rule over you,
and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that
they may do it with joy, and not with grief". The margin in the Protestant Version (observes
Cardinal Newman) reads "those who are your guides," and the word may also be translated "leaders".
Well, whether as rulers or as guides and leaders, whichever word be right, they are to be obeyed.

7. From this it is evident enough that assent is of two kinds. There is firstly the assent
of Divine Faith; and secondly there is the assent of religious obedience. Neither can be dispensed
with. Both are binding. All we affirm is that the one is not the other, and that the first
must not be confused with the last. A special kind of assent, that is to say, the assent of
Divine Faith must be given to all those doctrines which are proposed to us by the infallible
voice of the Church, as taught by Our Lord or the Apostles, and as contained in the original
deposit [fidei Depositum]. They comprise (a) all things whatever which God has directly revealed;
and (b) whatever truth such revelation implicitly contains.

These implicit truths are deduced from the original revelation, very much as any other consequence
from its premisses. For example. It is a truth directly revealed, that the Holy Ghost is God.
But, since God is to be adored: the further proposition:--the Holy Ghost is to be adored; is
also contained, though only implicitly, in revelation; and is therefore, equally, of faith.
So again; that Christ is man, is a fact of revelation; but the further proposition--Christ
has a true body--though not explicitly stated, is implicitly affirmed in the first proposition.
All consequences, such as the above, which are seen immediately and evidently to be contained
in the words of revelation, must be accepted as of faith. Other consequences, which are equally
contained in the original deposit, but which are not so readily detected and deduced, must
be explicitly accepted as of faith, only so soon as the Church has publicly and authoritatively
declared them to be so contained; but not before. Thus, to take an illustration, the Immaculate
Conception of the Blessed Virgin is a fact contained from the beginning, implicitly locked
up, as it were, in the deposit of faith, left by the Apostles. Were it not so it never could
have been defined; for the Church does not invent doctrines. She only transmits them. Yet,
this doctrine is not so clearly and so self-evidently included, and lies not so luminously
and unmistakably on the very surface of revelation as to be at once perceptible to all. Hence,
before its actual definition, a Catholic might deny it, or suspend his judgment, without censure;
whereas, to do either the one or the other, after the Church has solemnly declared the doctrine
to be contained in the teaching of Christ and the Apostles, would be nothing short of heresy.

"The Infallibility, whether of the Church or of the Pope," says Cardinal Newman, "acts principally
or solely in two channels, (a) in direct statement of truth, and (b) in the condemnation of
error. The former takes the shape of doctrinal definitions, the latter stigmatises propositions
as 'heretical,' 'next to heresy,' 'erroneous,' and the like" (p. 136).

The gift of Infallibility, observes Cardinal Manning, "extends directly to the whole matter
of divine truth, and indirectly to all truths which, though not revealed, are in such contact
with revelation that the deposit of faith and morals cannot be guarded, expounded, and defended,
without an infallible discernment of such unrevealed truths" (Vatican Decrees, p. 167).

8. To sum up: Persons who refuse to assent to doctrines which they know to be directly revealed
and defined, or which are universally held by the Church as of Catholic Faith, become by that
very act guilty of heresy, and cut themselves adrift from the mystical Body of Christ, and
are no longer His members. If, on the other hand, their assent is refused only to doctrines
closely connected with these dogmatic utterances, and which, as such, are proposed for their
acceptance, they become guilty, if not of actual heresy, then of something perilously akin
to it, and are, at all events, guilty of serious sin.

We may observe, in conclusion, that the Infallibility of Pontifical definitions, as Father
Humphrey so pertinently reminds us, does not depend upon the reigning Pontiff's possession
of any real knowledge of ancient Church history or theology, or philosophy or science, but
simply and solely upon the assistance of God the Holy Ghost, guaranteed to him in his exercise
of his function of Chief Pastor, in feeding with divine doctrine the entire flock of God. Our
Anglican friends seem penetrated with the utterly false notion of justification by scholarship
alone; which is as untrue as it is unscriptural. Indeed, their justification by scholarship
is likely to lead to very undesirable and deplorable results.

In the foregoing chapter we have considered especially the Pope's Infallible authority, and
the assent and obedience due to it. In our next it remains for us to consider the proper attitude
of a loyal Catholic towards the Sovereign Pontiff as the supreme ruler and governor of the
Church of God, even when not speaking ex cathedrâ.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 7: The word soma, observes Mgr. Capel, is never used in Greek to express mere association
or aggregation (Catholic, p. 13).]

[Footnote 8: From a Pastoral of the Swiss Bishops, which received the Pope's approbation.]

CHAPTER VI.

THE POPE'S ORDINARY AUTHORITY.

1. When the Holy Father speaks ex cathedrâ, and defines any doctrine concerning Faith or Morals,
we are bound to receive his teaching with the assent of divine faith: and cannot refuse obedience,
without being guilty of heresy. By one such wilful act of disobedience we cease to be members
of the Church of God, and must be classed with heathens and publicans: "Who will not hear the
Church, let him be to thee as the heathen and the publican" (Matt, xviii. 17).

But the Holy Father rarely exercises his prerogative of Infallibility, and therefore the occasions
of these special professions of faith occur but seldom--not once, perhaps, during the course
of many years.

2. What then, it may be asked, is the proper attitude of a Catholic towards the Pope, at ordinary
times?

For a proper understanding of the answer, it may be well to remind the general reader, that
the law of God enjoins obedience to all lawfully constituted authority; whether ecclesiastical
or civil, and whether Infallible or not: further that the Pope, whether speaking ex cathedrâ
or not, is always our lawful superior in all matters appertaining to religion, not only as
regards faith and morals, but also as regards ecclesiastical order and discipline. His jurisdiction,
or authority to command in these matters, is supreme and universal, and carries with it a corresponding
right to be obeyed. He is the immediate and supreme representative of God upon earth; and has
been placed in that position by God Himself. And since the Primacy is neither in whole, nor
even in part of human derivation, but comes directly and immediately from Christ, no man or
number of men, whether kings or princes or individual Bishops, nor even a whole Council of
Bishops, have any warranty or right to command him in religious or ecclesiastical concerns.[9]
The Council of Florence declares that: "To him, in Blessed Peter, was delivered by Our Lord
Jesus Christ the full power of ruling and governing the Universal Church". Now this "full power"
accorded by Christ cannot be limited except by the authority of Christ. Though the Pope is
not the Sovereign of all the faithful in the temporal order, he is the Sovereign of all Christians
in the spiritual order. If then--and this is admitted by all--we are bound in conscience to
obey our temporal sovereign and magistrates and masters, and must submit to the laws of the
country, so long as they do not conflict with higher and superior laws, such as the Natural
Law and the Revealed Law, with still greater reason are we bound to obey our spiritual Sovereign
and the laws and regulations of the Church.

3. To object that the Pope may possibly make a mistake when not speaking ex cathedrâ though
true, is nothing to the point. For civil governments are far more liable to fail in this respect,
and as a matter of fact, do frequently abuse their power and pass unjust laws, and sometimes
command what is sinful,[10] yet that fact does not militate against the soundness of the general
proposition that lawful superiors are to be obeyed. Nor does it diminish the force of St. Peter's
inspired words, in which he bids us be subject, for God's sake, "whether it be to the king,
as excelling, or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evil doers ... for such
is the will of God" (Peter ii.). Nor does it detract from the truth and validity of St. Paul's
still more emphatic words: "Let every soul be subject to higher powers; for there is no power
but from God: and those that are ordained of God. (Rom. xiii.). And again, when writing to
Titus he says: "Admonish them to be subject to princes and powers, and to obey" (Tit. iii. 1).

If the Apostles themselves thus command obedience to the State, even to a pagan Government,
such as the Roman was at the time they wrote, it will scarcely be denied by any Christian that
obedience is due to the Church, and to the ecclesiastical government, altogether apart from
any question of infallibility. In fact, though both the civil government and the ecclesiastical
government are from God, and though each is supreme within its own sphere; yet the authority
in the case of the Church is directly and immediately from God, whereas in the case of the
State, it is from God only mediately. This is why the form of government, in the case of the
State, may vary. It may be at one time monarchical, and at another republican, and then oligarchic,
and so forth, whereas the Church must ever be ruled by one Supreme Pontiff, and be monarchical
in its form. Further, it is generally held that even when not speaking ex cathedrâ, "the Vicar
of Christ is largely assisted by God in the fulfilment of his sublime office; that he receives
great light and strength to do well the great work entrusted to him and imposed upon him, and
that he is continually guided from above in the government of the Catholic Church." [Words
of Father O'Reilly, S.J., quoted with approval by Cardinal Newman, p. 140.] And that supplies
us with a special and an additional motive for prompt obedience.

"Two powers govern the world," wrote Pope Gelasius, to the Greek Emperor Anastasius, more than
fourteen hundred years ago, "the spiritual authority of the Roman Pontiff, and the temporal
power of kings". These two powers have for their end, one the spiritual happiness of man, here
and hereafter, the other the temporal prosperity of society in the present world. So that,
we may say, speaking generally, the Roman Pontiff has, in spiritual and ecclesiastical matters,
the same authority that secular sovereigns and their Parliaments have in worldly and political
matters. They command and issue laws not only as regards what is necessary for the welfare
of their subjects, but also as regards whatever is lawful and expedient. It is not contended
that they never make a mistake. It is not asserted that their ruling is necessarily, and in
every particular, always wise and discreet, but even inexpedient orders, if not unjust, may
be valid and binding, even though they might have been better non-issued. The principle to
guide us is of practical simplicity. As regards both the Church and the State--each in its
own order--the rule is that obedience is to be yielded. And, in doubtful cases the presumption
is in favour of authority. If anything were ordered, which is clearly seen to be contrary to,
or incompatible with the Law of God, whether natural or revealed, then, of course, it would
possess no binding force, for the Apostle warns us that--"We must obey God, rather than man"--but,
so long as we remain in a state of uncertainty, we are bound to give a properly constituted
authority the benefit of the doubt--and submit.

4. With these preliminary explanations and considerations to guide us in our interpretation,
we will now give the solemn teaching on the subject, as laid down in the third chapter of the
Pastor Æternus, drawn up and duly promulgated by the Ecumenical Council of the Vatican; and
therefore of supreme authority.

"We teach and declare that the Roman Church, according to the disposition of the Lord, obtains
the princedom of ordinary power over all the other Churches; and that this, the Roman Pontiff's
power of jurisdiction, which is truly episcopal, is immediate; towards which (power) all the
pastors and faithful, of whatever right and dignity, whether each separately or all collectively,
are bound by the duty of hierarchical subordination and true obedience, not only in the things
which pertain to faith and morals, but also in those which pertain to the discipline and government
(regimen) of the Church diffused through the whole world; so that, unity being preserved with
the Roman Pontiff, as well of communion as of the profession of the same faith, the Church
of Christ may be one flock under one pastor. This is the doctrine of Catholic truth, from which
no one can deviate without loss of faith and salvation."

"We also teach and declare that the Roman Pontiff is the supreme judge of the faithful, and
that in all causes belonging to ecclesiastical examination recourse can be had to his judgment:
and that the judgment of the Apostolic See, than whose authority there is none greater, is
not to be called in question, nor is it lawful for any one to judge its judgment. Therefore,
those wander from the right path of truth who affirm that it is lawful to appeal from the judgments
of the Roman Pontiffs to an Ecumenical Council, as to an authority superior to the Roman Pontiff."

"If any one, therefore, shall say that the Roman Pontiff has only the office of inspection
or direction, but not full and supreme power of jurisdiction over the Universal Church, not
only in the things which pertain to faith and morals, but also in those which pertain to the
discipline and government of the Church diffused throughout the whole world, or that he has
only the principal place (potiores partes), and not the whole plenitude of the supreme power,
or that this, his power, is not ordinary and immediate, whether over all and each of the Churches,
or over all and each of the pastors and faithful, let him be anathema!"

5. Since the Church is a perfect society, spread throughout the entire world, with one supreme
ruler at its head, it follows that it must be endowed with all the means requisite for the
carrying out of its mission. Christ was sent, by His Eternal Father, from Heaven with full
powers. "All power is given me in heaven and in earth"; and these powers He handed on to His
Church. "As the Father hath sent Me, so I also send you" (John xx. 21). Hence the Popes are,
to use Scriptural phraseology, "ambassadors for Christ; God, as it were, exhorting by them"
(2 Cor. v. 20); and no Catholic dare contest their power or jurisdiction.

Indeed, it would have been hopelessly impossible to carry on the government of the Church and
to maintain unity amongst its ever-increasing numbers, if there were no supreme authority ready
to assert itself; to correct errors; to resist abuses; and to restrain those who might introduce
dissensions and differences. Of this fact, the present deplorable chaotic state of the Anglican
and other non-Catholic Churches offers us abundant and forcible illustrations. From the very
first the One True Church has not only taught, but ruled; not only spoken, but acted. And when
any of her subjects have proved obstreperous and disobedient, and stubborn in their resistance
to her orders, she has invariably turned them out of her fold, so that they should not infect
and contaminate the good and the loyal. It was in this sense that St. Paul, the inspired Apostle,
in the very first century of the Christian era, instructed Titus to construe and administer
the law committed to his charge. After warning Titus that there are "many vain talkers and
deceivers," St. Paul commands him "to rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in faith".
He adds further: "These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke, with all authority". But this
was not all. He was not only to decide who were the "vain talkers and deceivers". Nor was he
simply "to exhort and rebuke them sharply, and with all authority," that they might become
"sound in the faith," but if they persisted after the first and second admonition, he was also
to reject them, and thrust them out of the Church, as heretics. "Reject a heretic, after the
first and second admonition" (Tit. iii. 10). Now Titus was neither an Apostle nor a Pope, but
a simple Bishop. If then such were the powers invested in him, how much more fully still must
this authority be inherent in the Vicar of Christ himself, who is the supreme head upon earth
of the entire Church of God.

It is this prompt amputation of the diseased members, before the hideous canker has time to
spread, that has kept the Church of God pure to this day, while heretical bodies have fallen
into greater and greater spiritual decay. It is because she fearlessly and resolutely insists
upon all her children accepting the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, that
she presents to the world, century after century, with miraculous clearness and perspicuity,
the Divine hall-mark of unity.

6. Outside the true Church of God there is no recognised voice strong enough to enforce any
uniformity of belief. Though the Pope's authority was acknowledged throughout England for over
one thousand years, yet at the time of the so-called Reformation, that Voice of God, speaking
through Peter, was admitted no longer. Hence, as Cardinal Manning most truly observes: "The
old forms of religious thought are now passing away in England. The rejection of the Divine
Voice has let in the flood of opinion; and opinion has generated scepticism; and scepticism
has brought on contentions without end. What seemed so solid once, is disintegrated. It is
dissolving by the internal action of the principle from which it sprung. The critical unbelief
of dogma has now reached to the foundation of Christianity, and to the veracity of Scripture.
Such is the world the Catholic Church Sees before it at this day. The Anglicanism of the Reformation
is upon the rocks, like some tall ship stranded upon the shore, and going to pieces, by its
own weight and the steady action of the sea. We have no need of playing the wreckers. It would
be inhumanity to do so. God knows that the desires and prayers of Catholics are ever ascending
that all that remains of Christianity in England may be preserved, unfolded and perfected into
the whole circle of revealed truths, and the unmutilated revelation of the Faith.

"It is inevitable that if we speak plainly we must give pain and offence to those who will
not admit the possibility that they are out of the Faith and the Church of Jesus Christ. But,
if we do not speak plainly, woe unto us, for we shall betray our trust and our Master. There
is a day coming, when they who have softened down the truth, or have been silent, will have
to give account. I had rather be thought harsh than be conscious of hiding the light which
has been mercifully shown to me" (Temp. Mission, etc., p. 215).

It would be well if all Catholics took to heart these noble words of the great English Cardinal,
who was himself once an Archdeacon in the Anglican Church. Real charity urges us to set forth
the truth in all its nakedness and beauty. This must be done, even though it may sometimes
give pain and cause irritation. If a man be walking in a trance towards the crumbling edge
of some ghastly precipice, who--let me ask--acts with the greater charity, he who is afraid
to interfere, and will calmly allow the somnambulist to walk on, till he fall over into the
abyss; or he who will shout, and, if need be, roughly shake him from his fatal sleep, and so,
perhaps, save him from destruction? Surely, to allow a fellow-creature to follow a path of
extreme danger, for fear of wounding his susceptibilities and incurring his anger, by candidly
pointing out his peril, is the mark, not of a lover of his brethren, but rather of one who
loves himself alone. (Ezek. iii. 18).

P.S.--Among the authors quoted in THE PURPOSE OF THE PAPACY may be mentioned the following,
as being easily obtainable by English readers: Allnatt, Allies, Bonomelli, Capel, Castelplano,
Dering, Deviver, Franzelin, Humphrey, Manning, Merry del Val, Meyer, Minges, Newman, O'Reilly,
Rhodes, Ullathorne, Ward.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 9: "Da chi dipenderà il Pontefice nell' esercizio del suo potere Spirituale? Dai
Rè? Eccovi il gallicanismo parlamentare! Dalle masse dei fedeli? Eccovi il richerianismo, e
febronianismo! Dai Vescovi? Eccovi il gallicanismo teologico" (L. di Castelplanio, p. 104).]

[Footnote 10: Take for instance, 37 Henry VIII. Chap.

   As the First Part of this little treatise is devoted to a
   consideration of the position of the Pope and the authority
   which he exercises throughout the Universal Church; so the
   Second Part is concerned with the position occupied and the
   authority exercised by the same Sovereign Pontiff in our own
   country of England, before she was cut off from the
   Universal Church in the sixteenth century.

CHAPTER I.

THE CHURCH IN ENGLAND BEFORE THE REFORMATION.

One of the greatest glories of the Catholic Church is that she and she alone possesses and
is able to communicate to others the whole truth revealed by Jesus Christ. The Church of England
and other Churches that have gone out from her have, we are thankful to say, carried with them
some fragments of Christianity, but the Catholic Church alone possesses the whole unadulterated
revelation of Jesus Christ. For over a thousand years, the Church in England formed a part
of the great Universal Church, the centre of which is at Rome and the circumference of which
is everywhere. From the sixth to the sixteenth century the Church in England was a province
of that Church, and received her power and jurisdiction from the Holy See. It was not until
the sixteenth century that she apostatised, and was cut off from the stem, out of which she
had sprung, as a rotten branch is lopped off from a healthy tree. It was not until then that
she became a Church apart, distinct from the Church of God, no longer the Catholic Church in
England, but henceforth the National Church of England and of England alone. The pre-"Reformation"
Church was, as we have said, not a separate Church, but a part of the one Catholic Church,
whereas the post-"Reformation" Church stands alone, unrecognised by the rest of Christendom;
hence the one is absolutely distinct from the other. The grand old cathedrals and churches
designed, built, and paid for by our Catholic ancestors have been forcibly taken possession
of, but the Faith, the teaching, and the doctrine--in a word, the Church itself--is totally
distinct. The wolf may slay and devour the sheep and may then clothe himself in its fleece,
but the wolf is not the sheep, and the nature of the one remains totally different from that
of the other. The proofs of all this are so numerous and so striking that one scarcely knows
which to choose, nor where to begin. In the present chapter, we will content ourselves with
calling attention to certain points that every one will be able to grasp. It is said that a
straw will show which way the wind blows, so things even trivial in themselves will enable
any unprejudiced man to see that there must be some radical difference between the Church in
England four hundred years ago, and the Church of England to-day. First, let us just look round
and consider the Catholic Church. It is spread all over the world. It is found in France, in
Belgium, in Italy, in Spain, and in other countries, all of which recognised the Church in
England before the "Reformation" as one in faith and doctrine with themselves. They felt themselves
united with it in one and the same belief; they taught the same seven Sacraments; they gathered
around the same Sacrifice; they acknowledged the same supremacy of the same spiritual head.
Now there is no single Catholic country that recognises the Church of England as anything but
heretical and schismatical.

Formerly when any Archbishop of Canterbury travelled abroad he was received as a brother by
the Catholic Bishops all over the Continent. He felt thoroughly at home in the Catholic churches,
and offered up the Divine Mysteries at their altars, using the same sacred vessels, reading
from the same missal, speaking the same language, and feeling himself to be a member of the
same spiritual family. Can the present Archbishop of Canterbury follow their example? Would
the Cardinal Archbishop of Paris, for instance, or the Archbishop of Milan receive the Anglican
Archbishop of Canterbury, as a brother Bishop? Would they cause their cathedrals to be thrown
open to him? No.

In vain does the Archbishop of Canterbury of to-day claim continuity with the pre-"Reformation"
Archbishops. For no one would be found to admit such a claim. It may be said that this is of
no great importance. It may not be in itself, but it is the straw which shows the way the wind
blows; and clearly proves that the verdict of the entire world and the chief centres of Christendom
is against continuity.

Let us take another "straw". Before the pseudo-Reformation there were Cardinals exercising
authority in the Church in England. Some of them even became famous. There was, for instance,
Cardinal Stephen Langton, who was Primate of England, and who brought together the Barons,
and forced the Great Charter from King John. There, amongst the signatures to that famous document
we find the name of a Roman Cardinal. From the time of Stephen Langton to the time of Cardinal
Fisher in the sixteenth century there was a long succession of Cardinals in England, all of
whom were members of the Church in England. From the time of Cardinal Robert Pullen to that
of Cardinal John Fisher there were no fewer than twenty-two Roman Cardinals belonging to that
Church. How is it that during those thousand years the English Church could have and actually
did have Cardinals, up to the time of the so-called Reformation, but never since? How is it
that such a thing has ceased to be possible? Clearly because it is no longer the same Church.
Before, England was a part of the Universal Church; and just as the Church in Italy, France,
and Spain, had, and still have, their Cardinals, so England also was given its share of representation
in the Sacred College. We shall realise the inference to be drawn if we consider what a Cardinal
is. In the first place, he is one chosen directly by the Pope; secondly, he is one of the Pope's
advisers; thirdly, when the Holy Father dies it is he, as a member of the Sacred College, who
has to elect a successor; furthermore, he swears allegiance to the Sovereign Pontiff, and on
bended knee, with his hands on the Holy Gospels, he solemnly declares his adhesion to the Roman
Catholic Faith. No Anglican of the present day, no Protestant, no one who is not an out-and-out
Roman Catholic can be, or could ever have been, a Cardinal, yet there were Cardinals here in
the Church in England, and, as we have stated, a long succession of them right up to the time
of the pseudo-Reformation. How can there be continuity and spiritual identity between the Church
in England, which before that change could and did have Cardinals, and the Church of England
to-day, which can produce nothing of the kind? Cardinals or no Cardinals is not a matter of
great importance in itself, but it is another "straw" which clearly shows the completely altered
condition of things. Let us pass to another point. During the period between the sixth and
sixteenth centuries there were many canonised saints in the Church in England. I refer to such
men as St. Bede, who lived in the eighth century; to St. Odo of Canterbury; to St. Dunstan,
Archbishop of Canterbury, in the tenth century; to St. Wolstan of Worcester; to St. Osmond,
Bishop of Salisbury in the eleventh century; to St. Thomas à Becket, in the twelfth century;
to St. Richard, Bishop of Chichester and St. Edmund, in the thirteenth century; and to many
others we could mention, whose names are enrolled in the lists of the Catholic Church, and
who are set up before her children as models of virtue, as the most perfect specimens of sanctity,
and as worthy of our imitation--all members of the Church in England before the pseudo-Reformation.[11]
How is it that the present Church of England has never canonised any saint? Those to whom I
have referred represent the best and truest of the Church in England before the "Reformation".
We still show them reverence. In many cases we even recite their offices and Masses. How, then,
can they be members of the same Church as the Church of England of to-day, which we know to
be a schismatical body, cut off from the unity of Christendom some four hundred years ago?
There has been no saint canonised according to the rite of the Church of England, but if there
had been, we would not and could not reverence them, for they would be to us outside the Church--aliens,
heretics, and, from that point of view at all events, unworthy of imitation. Let us point out
yet another "straw" which clearly indicates the essential difference between the Church in
England before the "Reformation" and the Church of England after it. When the young King Henry
VIII. first came to the throne he, like all his predecessors, both kings and queens, was a
true Roman Catholic. So much so, that when a doctrine of the Church was attacked he wrote a
book in its defence; in fact, the Pope was so pleased with his zeal that he determined to reward
him by conferring on him the title of "Defender of the Faith". But, in the name of common-sense!
Defender of what Faith? Was it the Protestant faith? Was it the faith professed by the present
Church of England? Is it likely, is it possible, that any Pope would confer such a title on
any one who was not in union with the Holy See, and who rejected Catholic doctrine? Such a
thing is unthinkable. Was the faith of Henry VIII. before the break with Rome the same as that
of Edward VII. who on his coronation day declared the Mass to be false, Transubstantiation
to be absurd, and Catholics to be idolaters? If not, then what becomes of the continuity theory?
The fact is that between the Church in England before the sixteenth century and the Church
of England to-day there is no real connection, no true resemblance, and those who endeavour
to prove the contrary are but falsifying history and throwing dust into the eyes of simple
people, and trying to prove what is absolutely and wholly untrue.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 11: As early as 1170 Pope Alexander III. decreed that the consent of the Roman Church
was necessary before public honour as a saint could be given to any person. Is it conceivable
that such consent would be given by any Pope in the case of one not united to Rome in the same
faith?]

CHAPTER II.

THE OATH OF OBEDIENCE.

In order to realise the absolute absurdity of the continuity theory, and to see how thoroughly
Roman Catholic England was right up to the "Reformation," it is enough for us to turn back
the hands of the great clock of time some few hundred years, and to visit England at any period
during the long interval between the sixth and the sixteenth century.

One of the first facts that would strike any observant visitor to our shores in those days,
would be the attitude of the Church in England towards the Holy See. Every Archbishop, every
metropolitan from the time of St. Augustine himself, A.D. 601, up to the sixteenth century,
not merely acknowledged the authority of the Pope, but solemnly swore to show him reverence
and obedience. Furthermore, even when an Archbishop had been appointed and consecrated, he
could not exercise jurisdiction until he had received the sacred pallium, which came from Rome,
and was received as the symbol and token of the authority conferred on him by the supreme Pastor.
The pallium itself, "taken from the body of Blessed Peter," is a band of lamb's wool, and was
worn by each Archbishop as the pledge of unity and of orthodoxy, as well as the fetter of loving
subjection to the Supreme Pastor of the One Fold, the "apostolic yoke" of Catholic obedience.

In the early Saxon times, long before trains or steamers had been invented, we find Primate
after Primate of All England undertaking the long and perilous journey over the sea, and then
across the Continent of Europe, and over the precipitous and dangerous passes of the Alps,
down through the sunny and vine-clad slopes of Italy, in order to receive the pallium in person
from the venerable successor of St. Peter, in the great Basilica in Rome. But, whether they
actually went for it themselves in person, or whether special messengers were sent with it
from Rome to England, they always awaited its reception before they considered themselves fully
empowered to exercise their metropolitan functions. By way of illustration, it may be interesting
to consider some special case, and we will then leave the reader to judge whether we are dealing
with an England that is Catholic or an England that is Protestant; with an England united to
the Holy See and to the rest of Catholic Europe, or an England independent of the Holy See,
isolated, and established by Law and Parliament, as it is to-day--an England in possession
of the truth, which is universal and the same everywhere, or an England clinging to error,
which is local, national and circumscribed.

