SNAKE AND SWORD

A NOVEL

BY

PERCIVAL CHRISTOPHER WREN

DEDICATED TO MY WIFE ALICE LUCILLE WREN

CONTENTS

PART I.

THE WELDING OF A SOUL

   I. The Snake and the Soul

PART II.

THE SEARING OF A SOUL

  II. The Sword and the Snake

 III. The Snake Appears

  IV. The Sword and the Soul

   V. Lucille

  VI. The Snake's "Myrmidon"

 VII. Love--and the Snake

VIII. Troopers of the Queen

  IX. A Snake avenges a Haddock and Lucille behaves
      in an un-Smelliean Manner

   X. Much Ado about Almost Nothing--A Mere
      Trooper

  XI. More Myrmidons

PART III.

THE SAVING OF A SOUL

 XII. Vultures and Luck--Good and Bad

XIII. Found

 XIV. The Snake and the Sword

      Seven Years After

PART I.

THE WELDING OF A SOUL.

CHAPTER I.

THE SNAKE AND THE SOUL.

When Colonel Matthew Devon de Warrenne, V.C., D.S.O., of the Queen's Own (118th) Bombay Lancers,
pinned his Victoria Cross to the bosom of his dying wife's night-dress, in token of his recognition
that she was the braver of the twain, he was not himself.

He was beside himself with grief.

Afterwards he adjured the sole witness of this impulsive and emotional act, Major John Decies,
never to mention his "damned theatrical folly" to any living soul, and to excuse him on the
score of an ancient sword-cut on the head and two bad sun-strokes.

For the one thing in heaven above, on the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth,
that Colonel de Warrenne feared, was breach of good form and stereotyped convention.

And the one thing he loved was the dying woman.

This last statement applies also to Major John Decies, of the Indian Medical Service, Civil
Surgeon of Bimariabad, and may even be expanded, for the one thing he ever had loved was the
dying woman....

Colonel Matthew Devon de Warrenne did the deed that won him his Victoria Cross, in the open,
in the hot sunlight and in hot blood, sword in hand and with hot blood on the sword-hand--fighting
for his life.

His wife did the deed that moved him to transfer the Cross to her, in darkness, in cold blood,
in loneliness, sickness and silence--fighting for the life of her unborn child against an unseen
foe.

Colonel de Warrenne's type of brave deed has been performed thousands of times and wherever
brave men have fought.

His wife's deed of endurance, presence of mind, self-control and cool courage is rarer, if
not unique.

To appreciate this fully, it must be known that she had a horror of snakes, so terrible as
to amount to an obsession, a mental deformity, due, doubtless, to the fact that her father
(Colonel Mortimer Seymour Stukeley) died of snake-bite before her mother's eyes, a few hours
before she herself was born.

Bearing this in mind, judge of the conduct that led Colonel de Warrenne, distraught, to award
her his Cross "For Valour".

One oppressive June evening, Lenore de Warrenne returned from church (where she had, as usual,
prayed fervently that her soon-expected first-born might be a daughter), and entered her dressing-room.
Here her Ayah divested her of hat, dress, and boots, and helped her into the more easeful tea-gown
and satin slippers.

"Bootlair wanting ishweets for dinner-table from go-down,[1] please, Mem-Sahib," observed Ayah,
the change of garb accomplished.

"The butler wants sweets, does he? Give me my keys, then," replied Mrs. de Warrenne, and, rising
with a sigh, she left the dressing-room and proceeded, via the dining-room (where she procured
some small silver bowls, sweet-dishes, and trays), to the go-down or store-room, situate at
the back of the bungalow and adjoining the "dispense-khana"--the room in which assemble the
materials and ministrants of meals from the extra-mural "bowachi-khana" or kitchen. Unlocking
the door of the go-down, Mrs. de Warrenne entered the small shelf-encircled room, and, stepping
on to a low stool proceeded to fill the sweet-trays from divers jars, tins and boxes, with
guava-cheese, crystallized ginger, kulwa, preserved mango and certain of the more sophisticated
sweetmeats of the West.

It was after sunset and the hamal had not yet lit the lamps, so that this pantry, a dark room
at mid-day, was far from light at that time. But for the fact that she knew exactly where everything
was, and could put her hand on what she wanted, she would not have entered without a light.

For some minutes the unfortunate lady stood on the stool.

Having completed her task she stepped down backwards and, as her foot touched the ground, she
knew that she had trodden upon a snake.

Even as she stood poised, one foot on the ground, the other on the stool, both hands gripping
the high shelf, she felt the reptile whipping, writhing, jerking, lashing, flogging at her
ankle and instep, coiling round her leg.... And in the fraction of a second the thought flashed
through her mind: "If its head is under my foot, or too close to my foot for its fangs to reach
me, I am safe while I remain as I am. If its head is free I am doomed--and matters cannot be
any the worse for my keeping as I am."

And she kept as she was, with one foot on the stool, out of reach, and one foot on the snake.

And screamed?

No, called quietly and coolly for the butler, remembering that she had sent Nurse Beaton out,
that her husband was at polo, that there were none but native servants in the house, and that
if she raised an alarm they would take it, and with single heart consider each the safety of
Number One.

"Boy!" she called calmly, though the room swam round her and a deadly faintness began to paralyse
her limbs and loosen her hold upon the shelf--"Boy! Come here."

Antonio Ferdinand Xavier D'Souza, Goanese butler, heard and came.

"Mem-Sahib?" quoth he, at the door of the go-down.

"Bring a lamp quickly," said Lenore de Warrenne in a level voice.

The worthy Antonio, fat, spectacled, bald and wheezy, hurried away and peremptorily bade the
hamal[2], son of a jungle-pig, to light and bring a lamp quickly.

The hamal, respectfully pointing out to the Bootlair Sahib that the daylight was yet strong
and lusty enough to shame and smother any lamp, complied with deliberation and care, polishing
the chimney, trimming the wick, pouring in oil and generally making a satisfactory and commendable
job of it.

Lenore de Warrenne, sick, faint, sinking, waited ... waited ... waited ... gripping the shelf
and fighting against her over-mastering weakness for the life of the unborn child that, even
in that awful moment, she prayed might be a daughter.

After many cruelly long centuries, and as she swayed to fall, the good Antonio entered with
the lamp. Her will triumphed over her falling body.

"Boy, I am standing on a snake!" said she coolly. "Put the lamp--"

But Antonio did not stay to "put" the lamp; incontinent he dropped it on the floor and fled
yelling "Sap! Sap!" and that the Mem-Sahib was bitten, dying, dead--certainly dead; dead for hours.

And the brave soul in the little room waited ... waited ... waited ... gripping the shelf,
and thinking of the coming daughter, and wondering whether she must die by snake-bite or fire--unborn--with
her unhappy mother. For the fallen lamp had burst, the oil had caught fire, and the fire gave
no light by which she could see what was beneath her foot--head, body, or tail of the lashing,
squirming snake--as the flame flickered, rose and fell, burnt blue, swayed, roared in the draught
of the door--did anything but give a light by which she could see as she bent over awkwardly,
still gripping the shelf, one foot on the stool, further prevented from seeing by her loose
draperies.

Soon she realized that in any case she could not see her foot without changing her position--a
thing she would not do while there was hope--and strength to hold on. For hope there was, inasmuch
as she had not yet felt the stroke of the reptile's fangs.

Again she reasoned calmly, though strength was ebbing fast; she must remain as she was till
death by fire or suffocation was the alternative to flight--flight which was synonymous with
death, for, as her other foot came down and she stepped off the snake, in that instant it would
strike--if it had not struck already.

Meantime--to call steadily and coolly again.

This time she called to the hamal, a Bhil, engaged out of compassion, and likely, as a son
of the jungle's sons, to be of more courage than the stall-fed butler in presence of dangerous
beast or reptile.

"Hamal: I want you," she called coolly.

"Mem-Sahib?" came the reply from the lamp-room near by, and the man approached.

"That stupid butler has dropped a lamp and run away. Bring a pail of water quickly and call
to the malli[3] to bring a pail of earth as you get it. Hasten!--and there is baksheesh," said
Mrs. de Warrenne quietly in the vernacular.

Tap and pail were by the door of the back verandah. In a minute the hamal entered and flung
a pail of water on the burning pool of oil, reducing the mass of blue lambent flames considerably.

"Now hamal," said the fainting woman, the more immediate danger confronted, "bring another
lamp very quickly and put it on the shelf. Quick! don't stop to fill or to clean it."

Was the pricking, shooting pain the repeated stabbing of the snake's fangs or was it "pins
and needles"? Was this deadly faintness death indeed, or was it only weakness?

In what seemed but a few more years the man reappeared carrying a lighted lamp, the which he
placed upon a shelf.

"Listen," said Mrs. de Warrenne, "and have no fear, brave Bhil. I have caught a snake. Get
a knife quickly and cut off its head while I hold it."

The man glancing up, appeared to suppose that his mistress held the snake on the shelf, hurried
away, and rushed back with the cook's big kitchen-knife gripped dagger-wise in his right hand.

"Do you see the snake?" she managed to whisper. "Under my foot! Quick! It is moving ... moving
... moving out."

With a wild Bhil cry the man flung himself down upon his hereditary dread foe and slashed with
the knife.

Mrs. de Warrenne heard it scratch along the floor, grate on a nail, and crush through the snake.

"Aré!! Dead, Mem-Sahib!! Dead!! See, I have cut off its head! Aré!!!! Wah!! The brave mistress!----"

As she collapsed, Mrs. de Warrenne saw the twitching body of a large cobra with its head severed
close to its neck. Its head had just protruded from under her foot and she had saved the unborn
life for which she had fought so bravely by just keeping still.... She had won her brief decoration
with the Cross by--keeping still. (Her husband had won his permanent right to it by extreme
activity.) ... Had she moved she would have been struck instantly, for the reptile was, by
her, uninjured, merely nipped between instep and floor.

Having realized this, Lenore de Warrenne fainted and then passed from fit to fit, and her child--a
boy--was born that night. Hundreds of times during the next few days the same terrible cry
rang from the sick-room through the hushed bungalow: "It is under my foot! It is moving ...
moving ... moving ... out!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"If I had to make a prophecy concerning this young fella," observed the broken-hearted Major
John Decies, I.M.S., Civil Surgeon of Bimariabad, as he watched old Nurse Beaton performing
the baby's elaborate ablutions and toilet, "I should say that he will not grow up fond of snakes--not
if there is anything in the 'pre-natal influence' theory."

PART II.

THE SEARING OF A SOUL.

CHAPTER II.

THE SWORD AND THE SNAKE.

Colonel Matthew Devon De Warrenne, commanding the Queen's Own (118th) Bombay Lancers, was in
good time, in his best review-order uniform, and in a terrible state of mind.

He strode from end to end of the long verandah of his bungalow with clank of steel, creak of
leather, and groan of travailing soul. As the top of his scarlet, blue and gold turban touched
the lamp that hung a good seven feet above his spurred heels he swore viciously.

Almost for the first time in his hard-lived, selfish life he had been thwarted, flouted, cruelly
and evilly entreated, and the worst of it was that his enemy was--not a man whom he could take
by the throat, but--Fate.

Fate had dealt him a cruel blow, and he felt as he would have done had he, impotent, seen one
steal the great charger that champed and pawed there at the door, and replace it by a potter's
donkey. Nay, worse--for he had loved Lenore, his wife, and Fate had stolen her away and replaced
her by a squealing brat.

Within a year of his marriage his wife was dead and buried, and his son alive and--howling.
He could hear him (curse him!).

The Colonel glanced at his watch, producing it from some mysterious recess beneath his belted
golden sash and within his pale blue tunic.

Not yet time to ride to the regimental parade-ground and lead his famous corps to its place
on the brigade parade-ground for the New Year Review and march-past.

As he held the watch at the length of its chain and stared, half-comprehending, his hand--the
hand of the finest swordsman in the Indian Army--shook.

Lenore gone: a puling, yelping whelp in her place.... A tall, severe-looking elderly woman
entered the verandah by a distant door and approached the savage, miserable soldier. Nurse Beaton.

"Will you give your son a name, Sir?" she said, and it was evident in voice and manner that
the question had been asked before and had received an unsatisfactory, if not unprintable;
reply. Every line of feature and form seemed to express indignant resentment. She had nursed
and foster-mothered the child's mother, and--unlike the man--had found the baby the chiefest
consolation of her cruel grief, and already loved it not only for its idolized mother's sake,
but with the devotion of a childless child-lover.

"The christening is fixed for to-day, Sir, as I have kept reminding you, Sir," she added.

She had never liked the Colonel--nor considered him "good enough" for her tender, dainty darling,
"nearly three times her age and no better than he ought to be".

"Name?" snarled Colonel Matthew Devon de Warrenne. "Name the little beast? Call him what you
like, and then drown him." The tight-lipped face of the elderly nurse flushed angrily, but
before she could make the indignant reply that her hurt and scandalized look presaged, the
Colonel added:--

"No, look here, call him Damocles, and done with it. The Sword hangs over him too, I suppose,
and he'll die by it, as all his ancestors have done. Yes--"

"It's not a nice name, Sir, to my thinking," interrupted the woman, "not for an only name--and
for an only child. Let it be a second or third name, Sir, if you want to give him such an outlandish
one."

She fingered her new black dress nervously with twitching hands and the tight lips trembled.

"He's to be named Damocles and nothing else," replied the Master, and, as she turned away with
a look of positive hate, he added sardonically:--

"And then you can call him 'Dam' for short, you know, Nurse."

Nurse Beaton bridled, clenched her hands, and stiffened visibly. Had the man been her social
equal or any other than her master, her pent-up wrath and indignation would have broken forth
in a torrent of scathing abuse.

"Never would I call the poor motherless lamb Dam, Sir," she answered with restraint.

"Then call him Dummy! Good morning, Nurse," snapped the Colonel.

As she turned to go, with a bitter sigh, she asked in the hopeless tone of one who knows the
waste of words:--

"You will not repent--I mean relent--and come to the christening of your only son this afternoon,
Sir?"

"Good morning, Nurse," observed Colonel Matthew Devon de Warrenne, and resumed his hurried
pacing of the verandah.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is not enough that a man love his wife dearly and hold her the sweetest, fairest, and best
of women--he should tell her so, morning and night.

There is a proverb (the unwisdom of many and the poor wit of one) that says Actions speak louder
than Words. Whether this is the most untrustworthy of an untrustworthy class of generalizations
is debateable.

Anyhow, let no husband or lover believe it. Vain are the deeds of dumb devotion, the unwearying
forethought, the tender care, the gifts of price, and the priceless gifts of attentive, watchful
guard and guide, the labours of Love--all vain. Silent is the speech of Action.

But resonant loud is the speech of Words and profitable their investment in the Mutual Alliance
Bank.

"Love me, love my Dog?" Yes--and look to the dog for a dog's reward.

"Do not show me that you love me--tell me so." Far too true and pregnant ever to become a proverb.

Colonel de Warrenne had omitted to tell his wife so--after she had accepted him--and she had
died thinking herself loveless, unloved, and stating the fact.

This was the bitterest drop in the bitter cup of the big, dumb, well-meaning man.

And now she would never know....

She had thought herself unloved, and, nerve-shattered by her terrible experience with the snake,
had made no fight for life when the unwanted boy was born. For the sake of a girl she would
have striven to live--but a boy, a boy can fend for himself (and takes after his father)....

Almost as soon as Lenore Seymour Stukeley had landed in India (on a visit with her sister Yvette
to friends at Bimariabad), delighted, bewildered, depolarized, Colonel Matthew Devon de Warrenne
had burst with a blaze of glory into her hitherto secluded, narrow life--a great pale-blue,
white-and-gold wonder, clanking and jingling, resplendent, bemedalled, ruling men, charging
at the head of thundering squadrons--a half-god (and to Yvette he had seemed a whole-god).

He had told her that he loved her, told her once, and had been accepted.

Once! Only once told her that he loved her, that she was beautiful, that he was hers to command
to the uttermost. Only once! What could she know of the changed life, the absolute renunciation
of pleasant bachelor vices, the pulling up short, and all those actions that speak more softly
than words?

What could she know of the strength and depth of the love that could keep such a man as the
Colonel from the bar, the bridge-table, the race-course and the Paphian dame? Of the love that
made him walk warily lest he offend one for whom his quarter of a century, and more, of barrack
and bachelor-bungalow life, made him feel so utterly unfit and unworthy? What could she know
of all that he had given up and delighted to give up--now that he truly loved a true woman?
The hard-living, hard-hearted, hard-spoken man had become a gentle frequenter of his wife's
tea-parties, her companion at church, her constant attendant--never leaving the bungalow, save
for duty, without her.

To those who knew him it was a World's Marvel; to her, who knew him not, it was nothing at
all--normal, natural. And being a man who spoke only when he must, who dreaded the expression
of any emotion, and who foolishly thought that actions speak louder than words, he had omitted
to tell her daily--or even weekly or monthly--that he loved her; and she had died pitying herself
and reproaching him.

Fate's old, old game of Cross Purposes. Major John Decies, reserved, high-minded gentleman,
loving Lenore de Warrenne (and longing to tell her so daily), with the one lifelong love of
a steadfast nature; Yvette Stukeley, reserved, high-minded gentlewoman, loving Colonel de Warrenne,
and longing to escape from Bimariabad before his wedding to her sister, and doing so at the
earliest possible date thereafter: each woman losing the man who would have been her ideal
husband, each man losing the woman who would have been his ideal wife.

Yvette Stukeley returned to her uncle and guardian, General Sir Gerald Seymour Stukeley, K.C.B.,
K.C.S.I., at Monksmead, nursing a broken heart, and longed for the day when Colonel de Warrenne's
child might be sent home to her care.

Major John Decies abode at Bimariabad, also nursing a broken heart (though he scarcely realized
the fact), watched over the son of Lenore de Warrenne, and greatly feared for him.

The Major was an original student of theories and facts of Heredity and Pre-natal Influence.
Further he was not wholly hopeful as to the effect of all the post-natal influences likely
to be brought to bear upon a child who grew up in the bungalow, and the dislike of Colonel
Matthew Devon de Warrenne.

Upon the infant Damocles, Nurse Beaton, rugged, snow-capped volcano, lavished the tender love
of a mother; and in him Major John Decies, deep-running still water, took the interest of a
father. The which was the better for the infant Damocles in that his real father had no interest
to take and no love to lavish. He frankly disliked the child--the outward and visible sign,
the daily reminder of the cruel loss he so deeply felt and fiercely resented.

Yet, strangely enough, he would not send the child home. Relations who could receive it he
had none, and he declined to be beholden to its great-uncle, General Sir Gerald Seymour Stukeley,
and its aunt Yvette Stukeley, in spite of the warmest invitations from the one and earnest
entreaties from the other.

Nurse Beaton fed, tended, clothed and nursed the baby by day; a worshipping ayah wheeled him
abroad, and, by night, slept beside his cot; a devoted sepoy-orderly from the regiment guarded
his cavalcade, and, when permitted, proudly bore him in his arms.

Major John Decies visited him frequently, watched and waited, waited and watched, and, though
not a youth, "thought long, long thoughts".

He also frequently laid his views and theories on paternal duties before Colonel de Warrenne,
until pointedly asked by that officer whether he had no duties of his own which might claim
his valuable time.

Years rolled by, after the incorrigible habit of years, and the infant Damocles grew and developed
into a remarkably sturdy, healthy, intelligent boy, as cheerful, fearless, impudent, and irrepressible
as the heart of the Major could desire--and with a much larger vocabulary than any one could
desire, for a baby.

On the fifth anniversary of his birthday he received a matutinal call from Major Decies, who
was returning from his daily visit to the Civil Hospital.

The Major bore a birthday present and a very anxious, undecided mind.

"Good morrow, gentle Damocles," he remarked, entering the big verandah adown which the chubby
boy pranced gleefully to meet his beloved friend, shouting a welcome, and brandishing a sword
designed, and largely constructed, by himself from a cleaning-rod, a tobacco-tin lid, a piece
of wood, card-board and wire.

"Thalaam, Major Thahib," he said, flinging himself bodily upon that gentleman. "I thaw cook
cut a fowl's froat vis morning. It squorked boofly."

"Did it? Alas, that I missed those pleasing-er-squorks," replied the Major, and added: "This
is thy natal day, my son. Thou art a man of five."

"I'm a debble. I'm a norful little debble," corrected Damocles, cheerfully and with conviction.

"Incidentally. But you are five also," persisted the senior man.

"It's my birfday to-day," observed the junior.

"I just said so."

"That you didn't, Major Thahib. This is a thword. Father's charger's got an over-weach. Jumping.
He says it's a dam-nuithanth."

"Oh, that's a sword, is it? And 'Fire' has got an over-reach. And it's a qualified nuisance,
is it?"

"Yeth, and the mare is coughing and her thythe is a blathted fool for letting her catch cold."

"The mare has a cold and the syce[4] is a qualified fool, is he? H'm! I think it's high time
you had a look in at little old England, my son, what? And who made you this elegant rapier?
Ochterlonie Sahib or--who?" (Lieutenant Lord Ochterlonie was the Adjutant of the Queen's Greys,
a friend of Colonel de Warrenne, an ex-admirer of his late wife, and a great pal of his son.)

"'Tithn't a waper. It'th my thword. I made it mythelf."

"Who helped?"

"Nobody. At leatht, Khodadad Khan, Orderly, knocked the holes in the tin like I showed him--or
elthe got the Farrier Thargeant to do it, and thaid he had."

"Yes--but who told you how to make it like this? Where did you see a hand-part like this? It
isn't like Daddy's sword, nor Khodadad Khan's tulwar. Where did you copy it?"

"I didn't copy it.... I shot ten rats wiv a bow-and-arrow last night. At leatht--I don't think
I shot ten. Nor one. I don't think I didn't, pwaps."

"But hang it all, the thing's an Italian rapier, by Gad. Some one must have shown you how to
make the thing, or you've got a picture. It's a pukka[5] mediaeval rapier."

"No it'th not. It'th my thword. I made it.... Have a jolly fight"--and the boy struck an extraordinarily
correct fencing attitude--left hand raised in balance, sword poised, legs and feet well placed,
the whole pose easy, natural, graceful.

Curiously enough, the sword was held horizontal instead of pointing upward, a fact which at
once struck the observant and practised eye of Major John Decies, sometime champion fencer.

"Who's been teaching you fencing?" he asked.

"What ith 'fenthing'? Let'th have a fight," replied the boy.

"Stick me here, Dam," invited the Major, seating himself and indicating the position of the
heart. "Bet you can't."

The boy lunged, straight, true, gracefully, straightening all his limbs except his right leg,
rigidly, strongly, and the "sword" bent upward from the spot on which the man's finger had
just rested.

"Gad! Who has taught you to lunge? I shall have a bruise there, and perhaps--live. Who's behind
all this, young fella? Who taught you to stand so, and to lunge? Ochterlonie Sahib or Daddy?"

"Nobody. What is 'lunge'? Will you buy me a little baby-camel to play with and teach tricks?
Perhaps it would sit up and beg. Do camelth lay eggth? Chucko does. Millions and lakhs. You
get a thword, too, and we'll fight every day. Yeth. All day long----"

"Good morning, Sir," said Nurse Beaton, bustling into the verandah from the nursery. "He's
as mad as ever on swords and fighting, you see. It's a soldier he'll be, the lamb. He's taken
to making that black orderly pull out his sword when he's in uniform. Makes him wave and jab
it about. Gives me the creeps--with his black face and white eyes and all. You won't encourage
the child at it, will you, Sir? And his poor Mother the gentlest soul that ever stepped. Swords!
Where he gets his notions I can't think (though I know where he gets his language, poor lamb!).
Look at that thing, Sir! For all the world like the dressed-up folk have on the stage or in
pictures."

"You haven't let him see any books, I suppose, Nurse?" asked the Major.

"No, Sir. Never a book has the poor lamb seen, except those you've brought. I've always been
in terror of his seeing a picture of a you-know-what, ever since you told me what the effect
might be. Nor he hasn't so much as heard the name of it, so far as I know."

"Well, he'll see one to-day. I've brought it with me--must see it sooner or later. Might see
a live one anywhere--in spite of all your care.... But about this sword--where could he have
got the idea? It's unlike any sword he ever set eyes on. Besides if he ever did see an Italian
rapier--and there's scarcely such a thing in India--he'd not get the chance to use it as a
copy. Fancy his having the desire and the power to, anyhow!"

"I give it up, Sir," said Nurse Beaton.

"I give it upper," added the Major, taking the object of their wonder from the child.

And there was cause for wonder indeed.

A hole had been punched through the centre of the lid of a tobacco tin and a number of others
round the edge. Through the centre hole the steel rod had been passed so that the tin made
a "guard". To the other holes wires had been fastened by bending, and their ends gathered,
twisted, and bound with string to the top of the handle (of bored corks) to form an ornamental
basket-hilt.

But the most remarkable thing of all was that, before doing this, the juvenile designer had
passed the rod through a piece of bored stick so that the latter formed a cross-piece (neatly
bound) within the tin guard--the distinctive feature of the ancient and modern Italian rapiers!

Round this cross-piece the first two fingers of the boy's right hand were crooked as he held
the sword--and this is the one and only correct way of holding the Italian weapon, as the Major
was well aware!

"I give it most utterly-uppermost," he murmured. "It's positively uncanny. No uninitiated adult
of the utmost intelligence ever held an Italian-pattern foil correctly yet--nor until he had
been pretty carefully shown. Who the devil put him up to the design in the first place, and
the method of holding, in the second? Explain yourself, you two-anna[6] marvel," he demanded
of the child. "It's jadu--black magic."

"Ayah lothted a wupee latht night," he replied.

"Lost a rupee, did she? Lucky young thing. Wish I had one to lose. Who showed you how to hold
that sword? Why do you crook your fingers round the cross-piece like that?"

"Chucko laid me an egg latht night," observed Damocles. "He laid it with my name on it--so
that cook couldn't steal it."

"No doubt. Look here, where can I get a sword like yours? Where can I copy it? Who makes them?
Who knows about them?"

"I don't know, Major Thahib. Gunnoo sells 'Fire's' gram to the methrani for her curry and chuppatties."

"But how do you know swords are like this? That thing isn't a pukka sword."

"Well, it'th like Thir Theymour Thtukeley's in my dweam."

"What dream?"

"The one I'm alwayth dweaming. They have got long hair like Nurse in the night, and they fight
and fight like anything. Norful good fighters! And they wear funny kit. And their thwords are
like vis. Eggzackly. Gunnoo gave me a ride on 'Fire,' and he'th a dam-liar. He thaid he forgot
to put the warm jhool on him when Daddy was going to fwash him for being a dam-fool. I thaid
I'd tell Daddy how he alwayth thleepth in it himthelf, unleth he gave me a ride on 'Fire'.
'Fire' gave a norful buck and bucked me off. At leatht I think he didn't."

Major Decies' face was curiously intent--as of some midnight worker in research who sees a
bright near glimpse of the gold his alchemy has so long sought to materialize in the alembic
of fact.

"Come back to sober truth, young youth. What about the dream? Who are they, and what do they
say and do?"

"Thir Theymour Thtukeley Thahib tellth Thir Matthew Thahib about the hilt-thwust. (What is
'hilt-thwust'?) And Lubin, the thervant, ith a white thervant. Why ith he white if he ith a
Thahib's 'boy'?"

"Good Gad!" murmured the Major. "I'm favoured of the gods. Tell me all about it, Sonny. Then
I'll undo this parcel for you," he coaxed.

"Oh, I don't wemember. They buck a lot by the tents and then Thir Theymour Thtukeley goes and
fights Thir Matthew and kills him, and it'th awful lovely, but they dreth up like kids at a
party in big collars and silly kit."

"Yes, I know," murmured the Major. "Tell me what they say when they buck to each other by the
tents, and when they talk about the 'hilt-thrust,' old chap."

"Oh, I don't wemember. I'll listen next time I dweam it, and tell you. Chucko's egg was all
brown--not white like those cook brings from the bazaar. He's a dam-thief. Open the parcel,
Major Thabib. What's in it?"

"A picture-book for you, Sonny. All sorts of jolly beasts that you'll shikar some day. You'll
tell me some more about the dream to-morrow, won't you?"

"Yeth. I'll wemember and fink, and tell you what I have finked."

Turning to Nurse Beaton, the Major whispered:--

"Don't worry him about this dream at all. Leave it to me. It's wonderful. Take him on your
lap, Nurse, and--er--be ready. It's a very life-like picture, and I'm going to spring it on
him without any remark--but I'm more than a little anxious, I admit. Still, it's got to come,
as I say, and better a picture first, with ourselves present. If the picture don't affect him
I'll show him a real one. May be all right of course, but I don't know. I came across a somewhat
similar case once before--and it was not all right. Not by any means," and he disclosed the
brilliantly coloured Animal Picture Book and knelt beside the expectant boy.

On the first page was an incredibly leonine lion, who appeared to have solved with much satisfaction
the problem of aerial flight, so far was he from the mountain whence he had sprung and above
the back of the antelope towards which he had propelled himself. One could almost hear him
roar. There was menace and fate in eye and tooth and claw, yea, in the very kink of the prehensile-seeming
tail wherewith he apparently steered his course in mid-air. To gaze upon his impressive and
determined countenance was to sympathize most fully with the sore-tried Prophet of old (known
to Damocles as Dannle-in-the-lines-den) for ever more.

The boy was wholly charmed, stroked the glowing ferocity and observed that he was a pukka Bahadur.[7]

On the next page, burning bright, was a tiger, if possible one degree more terrible than the
lion. His "fearful cemetery" appeared to be full, judging by its burgeoned bulge and the shocking
state of depletion exhibited by the buffalo on which he fed with barely inaudible snarls and
grunts of satisfaction. Blood dripped from his capacious and over-furnished mouth.

"Booful," murmured Damocles. "I shall go shooting tigerth to-mowwow. Shoot vem in ve mouth,
down ve froat, so as not to spoil ve wool."

Turning over the page, the Major disclosed a most grievous grizzly bear, grizzly and bearish
beyond conception, heraldic, regardant, expectant, not collared, fanged and clawed proper,
rampant, erect, requiring no supporters.

"You could thtab him wiv a thword if you were quick, while he was doing that," opined Damocles,
charmed, enraptured, delighted. One by one, other savage, fearsome beasts were disclosed to
the increasingly delighted boy until, without warning, the Major suddenly turned a page and
disclosed a brilliant and hungry-looking snake.

With a piercing shriek the boy leapt convulsively from Nurse Beaton's arms, rushed blindly
into the wall and endeavoured to butt and bore his way through it with his head, screaming
like a wounded horse. As the man and woman sprang to him he shrieked, "It'th under my foot!
It'th moving, moving, moving out" and fell to the ground in a fit.

Major John Decies arose from his bachelor dinner-table that evening, lit his "planter" cheroot,
and strolled into the verandah that looked across a desert to a mountain range.

Dropping into a long low chair, he raised his feet on to the long leg-rest extensions of its
arms, and, as he settled down and waited for coffee, wondered why no such chairs are known
in the West; why the trunks of the palms looked less flat in the moonlight than in the daylight
(in which, from that spot, they always looked exactly as though cut out of cardboard); why
Providence had not arranged for perpetual full-moon; why the world looked such a place of peaceful,
glorious beauty by moonlight, the bare cruel mountains like diaphanous clouds of tenderest
soothing mist, the Judge's hideous bungalow like a fairy palace, his own parched compound like
a plot of Paradise, when all was so abominable by day; and, as ever--why his darling, Lenore
Stukeley, had had to marry de Warrenne and die in the full flower and promise of her beautiful
womanhood.

Having finished his coffee and lighted his pipe (vice the over-dry friable cheroot, flung into
the garden) the Major then turned his mind to serious and consecutive thought on the subject
of her son, his beloved little pal, Dammy de Warrenne.

Poor little beggar! What an eternity it had seemed before he had got him to sleep. How the
child had suffered. Mad! Absolutely stark, staring, raving mad with sheer terror.... Had he
acted rightly in showing him the picture? He had meant well, anyhow. Cruel phrase, that. How
cuttingly his friend de Warrenne had observed, "You mean well, doubtless," on more than one
occasion. He could make it the most stinging of insults.... Surely he had acted rightly....
Poor little beggar--but he was bound to see a picture or a real live specimen, sooner or later.
Perhaps when there was no help at hand.... Would he be like it always? Might grow out of it
as he grew older and stronger. What would have happened if he had encountered a live snake?
Lost his reason permanently, perhaps.... What would happen when he did see one, as sooner or
later, he certainly must?

What would be the best plan? To attempt gradually to inure him--or to guard him absolutely
from contact with picture, stuffed specimen, model, toy, and the real thing, wild or captive,
as one would guard him against a fell disease?

Could he be inured? Could one "break it to him gently" bye and bye, by first drawing a wiggly
line and then giving it a head? One might sketch a suggestion of a snake, make a sort of dissimilar
clay model, improve it, show him a cast skin, stuff it, make a more life-like picture, gradually
lead up to a well-stuffed one and then a live one. Might work up to having a good big picture
of one on the nursery wall; one in a glass case; keep a harmless live one and show it him daily.
Teach him by experience that there's nothing supernatural about a snake--just a nasty reptile
that wants exterminating like other dangerous creatures--something to shikar with a gun. Nothing
at all supernatural....

But this was "super"-natural, abnormal, a terrible devastating agony of madness, inherited,
incurable probably; part of mind and body and soul. Inherited, and integrally of him as were
the colour of his eyes, his intelligence, his physique.... Heredity ... pre-natal influence
... breed....

Anyhow, nothing must be attempted yet awhile. Let the poor little chap get older and stronger,
in mind and body, first. Brave as a little bull-dog in other directions! Absolutely devoid
of fear otherwise, and with a natural bent for fighting and adventure. Climb anywhere, especially
up the hind leg of a camel or a horse, fondle any strange dog, clamour to be put on any strange
horse, go into any deep water, cheek anybody, bear any ordinary pain with a grin, thrill to
any story of desperate deeds--a fine, brave, manly, hardy little chap, and with art extraordinary
physique for strength and endurance.

Whatever was to be attempted later, he must be watched, day and night, now. No unattended excursions
into the compound, no uncensored picture-books, no juggling snake-charmers.... Yet it must
come, sooner or later.

Would it ruin his life?

Anyhow, he must never return to India when he grew up, or go to any snake-producing country,
unless he could be cured.

Would it make him that awful thing--a coward?

Would it grow and wax till it dominated his mind--drive him mad?

Would succeeding attacks, following encounters with picture or reality, progressively increase
in severity?

Her boy in an asylum?

No. He was exaggerating an almost expected consequence that might never be repeated--especially
if the child were most carefully and gradually reintroduced to the present terror. Later though--much
later on.

Meanwhile, wait and hope: hope and wait....

CHAPTER III.

THE SNAKE APPEARS.

The European child who grows up in India, if only to the age of six or seven years, grows under
a severe moral, physical, and mental handicap.

However wise, devoted, and conscientious its parents may be, the evil is great, and remains
one of the many heavy costs (or punishments) of Empire.

When the child has no mother and an indifferent father, life's handicap is even more severe.

By his sixth birthday (the regiment being still in Bimariabad owing to the prevalence of drought,
famine, and cholera elsewhere) Damocles de Warrenne, knowing the Urdu language and argot perfectly,
knew, in theory also, more of evil, in some directions, than did his own father.

If the child who grows up absolutely straight-forward, honest, above-board and pure in thought,
word, and deed, in England, deserves commendation, what does the child deserve who does so
in India?

Understanding every word they spoke to one another, the training he got from native servants
was one of undiluted evil and a series of object-lessons in deceit, petty villainy, chicanery,
oppression, lying, dishonesty, and all immorality. And yet--thanks to his equal understanding
of the words and deeds of Nurse Beaton, Major Decies, Lieutenant Ochterlonie, his father, the
Officers of the Regiment, and the Europeans of the station--he had a clear, if unconscious,
understanding that what was customary for native servants was neither customary nor possible
for Sahibs....

But he knew too much....

He knew what percentage of his or her pay each servant had to hand to the "butler-sahib" monthly--or
lose his or her place through false accusation.

He knew why the ayah was graciously exempted from financial toll by this autocrat. He knew
roughly what proportion of the cook's daily bill represented the actual cost of his daily purchases.
He knew what the door-peon got for consenting to take in the card of the Indian aspirant for
an interview with Colonel de Warrenne.

He knew the terms of the arrangements between the head-syce and the grain-dealer, the lucerne-grass
seller, the ghas-wallah[8] who brought the hay (whereby reduced quantities were accepted in
return for illegal gratifications). He knew of retail re-sales of these reduced supplies.

He knew of the purchase of oil, rice, condiments, fire-wood and other commodities from the
cook, of the theft (by arrangement) of the poultry and eggs, of the surreptitious milking of
the cow, and of the simple plan of milking her--under Nurse Beaton's eye--into a narrow-necked
vessel already half full of water.

He knew that the ayah's husband sold the Colonel's soda-water, paraffin, matches, candles,
tobacco, cheroots, fruit, sugar, etc., at a little portable shop round the corner of the road,
and of the terms on which the hamal and the butler supplied these commodities to the ayah for
transfer to her good man.

He knew too much of the philosophy, manners, habits, and morals of the dog-boy, of concealed
cases of the most infectious diseases in the compound, of the sub-letting and over-crowding
of the servants' quarters, of incredible quarrels, intrigues, jealousies, revenges, base villainies
and wrongs, superstitions and beliefs.

He would hear the hatching of a plot--an hour's arrangement and wrangle--whereby, through far-sighted
activity, perjury, malpractice and infinite ingenuity, the ringleader would gain a pice and
the follower a pie (a farthing and a third of a farthing respectively).

Daily he saw the butler steal milk, sugar, and tea, for his own use; the hamal steal oil when
he filled the lamps, for sale; the malli steal flowers, for sale; the coachman steal carriage-candles;
the cook steal a moiety of everything that passed through his hands--every one in that black
underworld stealing, lying, back-biting, cheating, intriguing (and all meanwhile strictly and
stoutly religious, even the sweeper-descended Goanese cook, the biggest thief of all, purging
his Christian soul on Sunday mornings by Confession, and fortifying himself against the temptations
of the Evil One at early Mass).

Between these nowker log, the servant-people, and his own jat or class, the Sahib-log, the
master-people, were the troopers, splendid Sikhs, Rajputs, Pathans and Punjabis, men of honour,
courage, physique, tradition. Grand fighters, loyal as steel while properly understood and
properly treated--in other words, while properly officered. (Men, albeit, with deplorably little
understanding of, or regard for, Pagett, M.P., and his kind, who yearn to do so much for them.)

These men Damocles admired and loved, though even they were apt to be very naughty in the bazaar,
to gamble and to toy with opium, bhang, and (alleged) brandy, to dally with houris and hearts'-delights,
to use unkind measures towards the good bunnia and sowkar who had lent them monies, and to
do things outside the Lines that were not known in the Officers' Mess.

The boy preferred the Rissaldar-Major even to some Sahibs of his acquaintance--that wonderful
old man-at-arms, horseman, shikarri, athlete, gentleman. (Yet how strange and sad to see him
out of his splendid uniform, in sandals, dhotie, untrammelled shirt-tails, dingy old cotton
coat and loose puggri, undistinguishable from a school-master, clerk, or post-man; so un-sahib-like.)

And what a fine riding-master he made for an ambitious, fearless boy--though Ochterlonie Sahib
said he was too cruel to be a good horse-master.

How could people be civilians and live away from regiments? Live without ever touching swords,
lances, carbines, saddles?

What a queer feeling it gave one to see the regiment go past the saluting base on review-days,
at the gallop, with lances down. One wanted to shout, to laugh--to cry. (It made one's mouth
twitch and chin work.)

Oh, to lead the regiment as Father did--horse and man one welded piece of living mechanism.

Father said you couldn't ride till you had taken a hundred tosses, been pipped a hundred times.
A hundred falls! Surely Father had never been thrown--it must be impossible for such a rider
to come off. See him at polo.

By his sixth birthday Damocles de Warrenne, stout and sturdy, was an accomplished rider and
never so happy (save when fencing) as when flogging his active and spirited little pony along
the "rides" or over the dusty maidans and open country of Bimariabad. To receive a quarter-mile
start on the race-course and ride a mile race against Khodadad Khan on his troop-horse, or
with one of the syces on one of the Colonel's polo-ponies, or with some obliging male or female
early morning rider, was the joy of his life. Should he suspect the competitor of "pulling"
as he came alongside, that the tiny pony might win, the boy would lash at both horses impartially.

People who pitied him (and they were many) wondered as to how soon he would break his neck,
and remonstrated with his father for allowing him to ride alone, or in charge of an attendant
unable to control him.

In the matter of his curious love of fencing Major John Decies was deeply concerned, obtained
more and more details of his "dweam," taught him systematically and scientifically to fence,
bought him foils and got them shortened. He also interested him in a series of muscle-developing
exercises which the boy called his "dismounted squad-dwill wiv'out arms," and performed frequently
daily, and with gusto.

Lieutenant Lord Ochterlonie (Officers' Light-Weight Champion at Aldershot) rigged him up a
small swinging sand-bag and taught him to punch with either hand, and drilled him in foot-work
for boxing.

Later he brought the very capable ten-year-old son of a boxing Troop-Sergeant and set him to
make it worth Dam's while to guard smartly, to learn to keep his temper, and to receive a blow
with a grin.

(Possibly a better education than learning declensions, conjugations, and tables from a Eurasian
"governess".)

He learnt to read unconsciously and automatically by repeating, after Nurse Beaton, the jingles
and other letter-press beneath the pictures in the books obtained for him under Major Decies'
censorship.

On his sixth birthday, Major John Decies had Damocles over to his bungalow for the day, gave
him a box of lead soldiers and a schooner-rigged ship, helped him to embark them and sail them
in the bath to foreign parts, trapped a squirrel and let it go again, allowed him to make havoc
of his possessions, fired at bottles with his revolver for the boy's delectation, shot a crow
or two with a rook-rifle, played an improvised game of fives with a tennis-ball, told him tales,
and generally gave up the day to his amusement. What he did not do was to repeat the experiment
of a year ago, or make any kind of reference to snakes....

A few days later, on the morning of the New-Year's-Day Review, Colonel Matthew de Warrenne
once again strode up and down his verandah, arrayed in full review-order, until it should be
time to ride to the regimental parade-ground.

He had coarsened perceptibly in the six years since he had lost his wife, and the lines that
had grown deepest on his hard, handsome face were those between his eyebrows and beside his
mouth--the mouth of an unhappy, dissipated, cynical man....

He removed his right-hand gauntlet and consulted his watch.... Quarter of an hour yet.

He continued the tramp that always reminded Damocles of the restless, angry to-and-fro pacing
of the big bear in the gardens. Both father and the bear seemed to fret against fate, to suffer
under a sense of injury; both seemed dangerous, fierce, admirable. Hearing the clink and clang
and creak of his father's movement, Damocles scrambled from his cot and crept down the stairs,
pink-toed, blue-eyed, curly-headed, night-gowned, to peep through the crack of the drawing-room
door at his beautiful father. He loved to see him in review uniform--so much more delightful
than plain khaki--pale blue, white, and gold, in full panoply of accoutrement, jackbooted and
spurred, and with the great turban that made his English face look more English still.

Yes--he would ensconce himself behind the drawing-room door and watch. Perhaps "Fire" would
be bobbery when the Colonel mounted him, would get "what-for" from whip and spur, and be put
over the compound wall instead of being allowed to canter down the drive and out at the gate....

Colonel de Warrenne stepped into his office to get a cheroot. Re-appearing in the verandah
with it in his mouth he halted and thrust his hand inside his tunic for his small match-case.
Ere he could use the match his heart was momentarily chilled by the most blood-curdling scream
he had ever heard. It appeared to come from the drawing-room. (Colonel de Warrenne never lit
the cheroot that he had put to his lips--nor ever another again.) Springing to the door, one
of a dozen that opened into the verandah, he saw his son struggling on the ground, racked by
convulsive spasms, with glazed, sightless eyes and foaming mouth, from which issued appalling,
blood-curdling shrieks. Just above him, on the fat satin cushion in the middle of a low settee,
a huge half-coiled cobra swayed from side to side in the Dance of Death.

"It's under my foot--it's moving--moving--moving out," shrieked the child.

Colonel de Warrenne attended to the snake first. He half-drew his sword and then slammed it
back into the scabbard. No--his sword was not for snakes, whatever his son might be. On the
wall was a trophy of Afghan weapons, one of which was a sword that had played a prominent part
on the occasion of the Colonel's winning of the Victoria Cross.

Striding to the wall he tore the sword down, drew it and, with raised arm, sprang towards the
cobra. A good "Cut Three" across the coils would carve it into a dozen pieces. No. Lenore made
that cushion--and Lenore's cushion made more appeal to Colonel de Warrenne than did Lenore's
son. No. A neat horizontal "Cut Two," just below the head, with the deadly "drawing" motion
on it, would meet the case nicely. Swinging it to the left, the Colonel subconsciously placed
the sword, "resting flat on the left shoulder, edge to the left, hand in front of the shoulder
and square with the elbow, elbow as high as the hand," as per drill-book, and delivered a lightning
stroke--thinking as he did so that the Afghan tulwar is an uncommonly well-balanced, handy
cutting-weapon, though infernally small in the hilt.

The snake's head fell with a thud upon the polished boards between the tiger-skins, and the
body dropped writhing and twitching on to the settee.

Damocles appeared to be dead. Picking him up, the callous-hearted father strode out to where
Khodadad Khan held "Fire's" bridle, handed him to the orderly, mounted, received him again
from the man, and, holding him in his strong right arm, cantered to the bungalow of Major John
Decies--since it lay on the road to the parade-ground.

Would the jerking hurt the little beggar in his present comatose state? Well, brats that couldn't
stand a little jerking were better dead, especially when they screamed and threw fits at the
sight of a common snake.

Turning into Major Decies' compound and riding up to his porch, the Colonel saw the object
of his search, arrayed in pyjamas, seated in his long cane chair beside a tray of tea, toast,
and fruit, in the verandah.

"Morning, de Warrenne," he cried cheerily.

"How's little--" and caught sight of the inanimate child.

"Little coward's fainted after throwing a fit--over a common snake," observed the Colonel coolly.

"Give him here," answered the Major, taking the boy tenderly in his arms,--"and kindly--er--clear
out."

He did not wish to strike his friend and senior. How the black rage welled up in his heart
against the callous brute who had dared to marry Lenore Seymour Stukeley.

Colonel de Warrenne wheeled his horse without a word, and rode out of Major Decies' life and
that of his son.

Galloping to the parade-ground he spoke a few curt words to his Adjutant, inspected the rissala,
and then rode at its head to the brigade parade-ground where it took up its position on the
left flank of the Guns and the Queen's Greys, "sat at ease," and awaited the arrival of the
Chief Commissioner at the saluting-base. A British Infantry regiment marched to the left flank
of the 118th (Bombay) Lancers, left-turned and stood at ease. Another followed and was followed
in turn by Native Infantry Regiments--grand Sikhs in scarlet tunics, baggy black breeches and
blue putties; hefty Pathans and Baluchis in green tunics, crimson breeches and high white gaiters,
sturdy little Gurkhas in rifle-green, stalwart Punjabi Mahommedans.

The great double line grew and grew, and stood patiently waiting, Horse, Foot, and Guns, facing
the sun and a dense crowd of spectators ranked behind the rope-encircled, guard-surrounded
saluting-base over which flew the Flag of England.

The Brigadier and his Staff rode on to the ground, were saluted by the mile of troops, and
took up their position.

Followed the Chief Commissioner in his state carriage, accompanied by a very Distinguished
Guest, and surrounded by his escort. The mile of men again came to attention and the review
began. Guns boomed, massed bands played the National Anthem, the crackling rattle of the feu-de-joie
ran up the front rank and down the rear.

After the inspection and the salutes came the march-past by the regiments.

Now the Distinguished Visitor's wife had told the Chief Commissioner that she "did not want
to see the cavalry go past at the gallop as it raised such a dreadful dust". But her maid bungled,
her toilette failed, and she decided not to accompany her husband to the Review at all. Her
husband, the Distinguished Visitor, did desire to see the cavalry go past at the gallop, and
so the Chief Commissioner's Distinguished Visitor's wife's maid's bungling had a tremendous
influence upon the fate of Damocles de Warrenne, as will be seen.

Passed the massed Guns at the walk, followed by the Cavalry at the walk in column of squadrons
and the Infantry in column of companies, each unit saluting the Chief Commissioner by turning
"eyes right" as it passed the spot where he sat on horseback surrounded by the civil and military
staffs.

Wheeling to the left at the end of the ground the Guns and Cavalry again passed, this time
at the trot, while the Infantry completed its circular march to its original position.

Finally the Cavalry passed for the third time, and now at the gallop, an orderly whirlwind,
a controlled avalanche of men and horses, with levelled lances, and the hearts of all men were
stirred at one of the most stirring sights and sounds in the world--a cavalry charge.

At the head of the leading squadron galloped Colonel de Warrenne, cool, methodical, keeping
a distant flag-staff in line with a still more distant church spire, that he might lead the
regiment in a perfectly straight line. (Few who have not tried it realize the difficulty of
leading a galloping line of men absolutely straight and at true right-angles to the line of
their ranks.)

On thundered the squadrons unbending of rank, uncrowded, unopened, squadron-leaders maintaining
distance, the whole mass as ordered, shapely, and precisely correct as when at the walk.

Past the saluting-base thundered the squadrons and in full career Colonel de Warrenne's charger
put his near fore into ground honey-combed by insect, reptile, or burrowing beast, crashed
on its head, rolled like a shot rabbit, and Colonel Matthew Devon de Warrenne lay dead--killed
by his own sword.

Like his ancestors of that fated family, he had died by the sword, but unlike them, he had
died by the hilt of it.

Major John Decies, I.M.S., Civil Surgeon of Bimariabad, executor of the will of the late Colonel
de Warrenne and guardian of his son, cabled the sad news of the Colonel's untimely death to
Sir Gerald Seymour Stukeley at Monksmead, he being, so far as Major Decies knew, the boy's
only male relative in England--uncle of the late Mrs. de Warrenne.

The reply, which arrived in a day or two, appeared from its redundancy and incoherence to be
the composition of Miss Yvette Seymour Stukeley, and bade Major Decies either send or bring
the infant Damocles to Monksmead immediately.

The Major decided to apply forthwith for such privilege-leave and furlough as were due to him,
and to proceed to England with the boy. It would be as well that his great-uncle should hear
from him, personally, of the matter of the child's mental condition resultant upon the tragedy
of his own birth and his mother's death. The Major was decidedly anxious as to the future in
this respect--all might be well in time, and all might be very far indeed from well.

Nurse Beaton absolutely and flatly refused to be parted from her charge, and the curious party
of three set sail for England in due course.

"Hm!--He's every inch a Stukeley," remarked the General when Damocles de Warrenne was ushered
into his presence in the great library at Monksmead. "Hope he's Stukeley by nature too. Sturdy
young fella! 'Spose he's vetted sound in wind and limb?"

The Major replied that the boy was physically rather remarkably strong, mentally very sound,
and in character all that could be desired. He then did his best to convey to the General an
understanding of the psychic condition that must be a cause of watchfulness and anxiety on
the part of those who guarded his adolescence.

At dinner, over the General's wonderful Clos Vougeot, the Major again returned to the subject
and felt that his words of advice fell upon somewhat indifferent and uncomprehending ears.

It was the General's boast that he had never feed a doctor in his life, and his impression
that a sound resort for any kind of invalid is a lethal chamber....

The seven years since the Major had last seen her, seemed to have dealt lightly with the sad-faced,
pretty Miss Yvette, gentle, good, and very kind. Over the boy she rhapsodized to her own content
and his embarrassment. Effusive endearments and embraces were new to Dam, and he appeared extraordinarily
ignorant of the art of kissing.

"Oh, how like his dear Father!" she would exclaim afresh every few minutes, to the Major's
slight annoyance and the General's plain disgust.

"Every inch a Stukeley!" he would growl in reply.

But Yvette Seymour Stukeley had prayed for Colonel de Warrenne nightly for seven years and
had idealized him beyond recognition. Possibly Fate's greatest kindness to her was to ordain
that she should not see him as he had become in fact, and compare him with her wondrous mental
image.... The boy was to her, must be, should be, the very image of her life's hero and beloved....

The depolarized and bewildered Damocles found himself in a strange and truly foreign land,
a queer, cold, dismal country inhabited by vast quantities of "second-class sahibs," as he
termed the British lower middle-class and poor, a country of a strange greenness and orderedness,
where there were white servants, strangely conjoined rows of houses in the villages, dangerous-looking
fires inside the houses, a kind of tomb-stones on all house-tops, strange horse-drawn vehicles,
butlerless and ghari[9]-less sahibs, and an utter absence of "natives," sepoys, byle-gharies,[10]
camels, monkeys, kites, squirrels, bulbuls, minahs,[11] mongooses, palm-trees, and temples.
Cattle appeared to have no humps, crows to have black heads, and trees to have no fruit. The
very monsoon seemed inextricably mixed with the cold season. Fancy the rains coming in the
cold weather! Perhaps there was no hot weather and nobody went to the hills in this strange
country of strange people, strange food, strange customs. Nobody seemed to have any tents when
they left the station for the districts, nor to take any bedding when they went on tour or
up-country. A queer, foreign land.

But Monksmead was a most magnificent "bungalow" standing in a truly beautiful "compound"--wherein
the very bhistis[12] and mallis were European and appeared to be second-class sahibs.

Marvellous was the interior of the bungalow with its countless rooms and mountainous stair-cases
(on the wall of one of which hung the Sword which he had never seen but instantly recognized)
and its army of white servants headed by the white butler (so like the Chaplain of Bimariabad
in grave respectability and solemn pompousness) and its extraordinary white "ayahs" or maids,
and silver-haired Mrs. Pont, called the "house-keeper". Was she a pukka Mem-Sahib or a nowker[13]
or what? And how did she "keep" the house?

A wonderful place--but far and away the most thrilling and delightful of its wonders was the
little white girl, Lucille--Damocles' first experience of the charming genus.

The boy never forgot his first meeting with Lucille.

On his arrival at Monksmead he had been "vetted," as he expressed it, by the Burra-Sahib, the
General; and then taken to an attractive place called "the school-room" and there had found
Lucille....

"Hullo! Boy," had been her greeting. "What's your name?" He had attentively scrutinized a small
white-clad, blue-sashed maiden, with curling chestnut hair, well-opened hazel eyes, decided
chin, Greek mouth and aristocratic cheek-bones. A maiden with a look of blood and breed about
her. (He did not sum her up in these terms at the time.)

"Can you ride, Boy?"

"A bit."

"Can you fight?"

"A bit."

"Can you swim?"

"Not well."

"I can--ever so farther. D'you know French and German?"

"Not a word."

"Play the piano?"

"Never heard of it. D'you play it with cards or dice?"

"Lucky dog! It's music. I have to practise an hour a day."

"What for?"

"Nothing ... it's lessons. Beastly. How old are you?"

"Seven--er--nearly."

"So'm I--nearly. I've got to be six first though. I shall have a birthday next week. A big
one. Have you brought any ellyfunts from India?"

"I've never seen a nellyfunt--only in pictures."

A shudder shook the boy's sturdy frame.

"Why do you go like that? Feel sick?"

"No. I don't know. I seemed to remember something--in a book. I dream about it. There's a nasty
blue room with a mud floor. And Something. Beastly. Makes you yell out and you can't. You can't
run away either. But the Sword dream is lovely."

Lucille appeared puzzled and put this incoherence aside.

"What a baby never to see ellyfunts! I've seen lots. Hundreds. Zoo. Circuses. Persessions.
Camels, too."

"Oh, I used to ride a camel every day. There was one in the compound with his oont-wallah,[14]
Abdul Ghaffr; and Khodadad Khan used to beat the oont-wallah on cold mornings to warm himself."

"What's an oont-wallah?"

"Don't you know? Why, he's just the oont-wallah, of course. Who'd graze the camel or load it
up if there wasn't one?"

At tea in the nursery the young lady suddenly remarked:--

"I like you, Boy. You're worth nine Haddocks."

This cryptic valuation puzzled Damocles the more in that he had never seen or heard of a haddock.
Had he been acquainted with the fowl he might have been yet more astonished.

Later he discovered that the comparison involved the fat boy who sat solemnly stuffing on the
other side of the table, his true baptismal name being Haddon.

Yes, Lucille was a revelation, a marvel.

Far quicker of mind than he, cleverer at games and inventing "make believe," very strong, active,
and sporting, she was the most charming, interesting, and attractive experience in his short
but eventful life.

How he loved to make her laugh and clap her hands! How he enjoyed her quaint remarks, speculations,
fairy-tales and jokes. How he yearned to win her approval and admiration. How he strove to
please her!

In Lucille and his wonderful new surroundings he soon forgot Major Decies, who returned to
live (and, at a ripe old age, to die) at Bimariabad, where had lived and died the woman whom
he had so truly and purely loved. The place where he had known her was the only place for him.

On each of his birthdays Damocles received a long fatherly letter and a handsome present from
the Major, and by the time he went away to school at Wellingborough, he wondered who on earth
the Major might be.

To his great delight Damocles found that he was not doomed to discontinue his riding, fencing,
boxing, and "dismounted drill without arms".

General Seymour Stukeley sent for a certain Sergeant Havlan (once a trooper in his own regiment),
rough-rider, swordsman, and boxer, now a professional trainer, and bade him see that the boy
learned all he could teach him of arms and horsemanship, boxing, swimming, and general physical
prowess and skill. Lucille and Haddon Berners were to join in to the extent to which their
age and sex permitted.

The General intended his great-nephew to be worthy of his Stukeley blood, and to enter Sandhurst
a finished man-at-arms and horseman, and to join his regiment, Cavalry, of course, with nothing
much to learn of sword, lance, rifle, revolver, and horse.

Sergeant Havlan soon found that he had little need to begin at the beginning with Damocles
de Warrenne in the matter of riding, fencing or boxing, and was unreasonably annoyed thereat.

In time, it became the high ambition and deep desire of Dam to overcome Sergeant Havlan's son
in battle with the gloves. As young Havlan was a year his senior, a trained infant prodigy,
and destined for the Prize Ring, there was plenty for him to learn and to do.

With foil or sabre the boy was beneath Dam's contempt.

Daily the children were in Sergeant Havlan's charge for riding and physical drill, Dam getting
an extra hour in the evening for the more manly and specialized pursuits suitable to his riper
years.

He and Lucille loved it all, and the Haddock bitterly loathed it.

Until Miss Smellie came Dam was a happy boy--but for queer sudden spasms of terror of Something
unknown; and, after her arrival, he would have been well content could he have been assured
of an early opportunity of attending her obsequies and certain of a long-postponed resurrection;
well content, and often wildly happy (with Lucille) ... but for the curious undefinable fear
of Something ... Something about which he had the most awful dreams ... Something in a blue
room with a mud floor. Something that seemed at times to move beneath his foot, making his
blood freeze, his knees smite together, the sunlight turn to darkness....

CHAPTER IV.

THE SWORD AND THE SOUL.

One of the very earliest of all Dam's memories in after life--for in a few years he forgot
India absolutely--was of the Sword (that hung on the oak-panelled wall of the staircase by
the portrait of a cavalier), and of a gentle, sad-eyed lady, Auntie Yvette, who used to say:--

"Yes, sonny darling, it is more than two-hundred-and-fifty years old. It belonged to Sir Seymour
Stukeley, who carried the King's Standard at Edgehill and died with that sword in his hand
... You shall wear a sword some day."

(He did--with a difference.)

The sword grew into the boy's life and he would rather have owned it than the mechanical steamboat
with real brass cannon for which he prayed to God so often, so earnestly, and with such faith.
On his seventh birthday he preferred a curious request, which had curious consequences.

"Can I take the sword to bed with me to-night, Dearest, as it is my birthday?" he begged. "I
won't hurt it."

And the sword was taken down from the oak-panelled wall, cleaned, and laid on the bed in his room.

"Promise you will not try to take it out of the sheath, sonny darling," said the gentle, sad-eyed
lady as she kissed him "Good night".

"I promise, Dearest," replied the boy, and she knew that she need have no fear.

He fell asleep fondling and cuddling the sword that had pierced the hearts of many men and
defended the honour of many ancestors, and dreamed, with far greater vividness and understanding,
the dream he had so often dreamt before.

Frequently as he dreamed it during his chequered career, it was henceforth always most vivid
and real. It never never varied in the slightest detail, and he generally dreamed it on the
night before some eventful, dangerful day on which he risked his life or fought for it.

Of the early dreamings, of course, he understood little, but while he was still almost a boy
he most fully understood the significance of every word, act, and detail of the marvellous,
realistic dream.

It began with a view of a camp of curious little bell-tents about which strode remarkable,
big-booted, long-haired, bedizened men--looking strangely effeminate and strangely fierce,
with their feathered hats, curls, silk sashes, velvet coats, and with their long swords, cruel
faces, and savage oaths.

Some wore steel breastplates, like that of the suit of armour in the hall, and steel helmets.
The sight of the camp thrilled the boy in his dream, and yet he knew that he had seen it all
before actually, and in real life--in some former life.

Beside one of a small cluster of tents that stood well apart from the rest sat a big man who
instantly reminded the boy of his dread "Grandfather," whom he would have loved to have loved
had he been given the chance.

The big man was even more strangely attired than those others who clumped and clattered about
the lower part of the camp.

Fancy a great big strong man with long curls, a lace collar, and a velvet coat--like a kid
going to a party!

The velvet coat had the strangest sleeves, too--made to button to the elbow and full of slits
that seemed to have been mended underneath with blue silk. There was a regular pattern of these
silk-mended slits about the body of the coat, too, and funny silk-covered buttons.

On his head the man had a great floppy felt hat with a huge feather--a hat very like one that
Dearest wore, only bigger.

One of his long curls was tied with a bow of ribbon--like young Lucille wore--and the boy felt
quite uncomfortable as he noted it. A grown man--the silly ass! And, yes! he had actually got
lace round the bottoms of his quaint baggy knickerbockers--as well as lace cuffs!

The boy could see it, where one of the great boots had sagged down below the knee.

Extraordinary boots they were, too. Nothing like "Grumper's" riding-boots. They were yellowish
in colour, and dull, not nicely polished, and although the square-toed, ugly foot part looked
solid as a house, the legs were more like wrinkled leather stockings, and so long that the
pulled-up one came nearly to the hip.

Spurs had made black marks on the yellow ankles, and saddle and stirrup-leather had rubbed
the legs....

And a sash! Whoever heard of a grown-up wearing a sash? It was a great blue silk thing, wound
round once or twice, and tied with a great bow, the ends of which hung down in front.

Of all the Pip-squeaks!

And yet the big man's face was not that of a Pip-squeak--far from it. It was very like Grumper's
in fact.

The boy liked the face. It was strong and fierce, thin and clean-cut--marred only, in his estimation,
by the funny little tuft of hair on the lower lip. He liked the wavy, rough, up-turned moustache,
but not that silly tuft. How nice he would look with his hair cut, his lower lip shaved, and
his ridiculous silks, velvet, and lace exchanged for a tweed shooting-suit or cricketing-flannels!
How Grumper, Father, Major Decies, and even Khodadad Khan and the sepoys would have laughed
at the get-up. Nay, they would have blushed for the fellow--a Sahib, a gentleman--to tog himself
up so!

The boy also liked the man's voice when he turned towards the tent and called:--

"Lubin, you drunken dog, come hither," a call which brought forth a servant-like person, who,
by reason of his clean-shaven face and red nose, reminded the boy of Pattern the coachman.

He wore a dark cloth suit, cotton stockings, shoes that had neither laces nor buttons, but
fastened with a kind of strap and buckle, and, queer creature, a big Eton collar!

"Sword and horse, rascal," said the gentleman, "and warn Digby for duty. Bring me wine and
a manchet of bread."

The man bowed and re-entered the tent, to emerge a moment later bearing the Sword.

How the cut-steel hilt sparkled and shone! How bright and red the leather scabbard--now black,
dull, cracked and crumbling. But it was unmistakeably the Sword.

It hung from a kind of broad cross-belt and was attached to it by several parallel buckled
straps--not like Father's Sam Browne belt at all.

As the gentleman rose from his stool (he must have been over six feet in height) Lubin passed
the cross-belt over his head and raised left arm so that it rested on his right shoulder, and
the Sword hung from hip to heel.

To the boy it had always seemed such a huge, unwieldy thing. At this big man's side it looked--just
right.

Lubin then went off at a trot to where long lines of bay horses pawed the ground, swished their
tails, tossed their heads, and fidgeted generally....

From a neighbouring tent came the sounds of a creaking camp-bed, two feet striking the ground
with violence, and a prodigious, prolonged yawn.

A voice then announced that all parades should be held in Hell, and that it was better to be
dead than damned. Why should gentlemen drill on a fine evening while the world held wine and women?

After a brief space, occupied with another mighty yawn, it loudly and tunefully requested some
person or persons unknown to superintend its owner's obsequies.

"May it do so soon," observed the tall gentleman distinctly.

"What ho, without there! That you, Seymour, lad?" continued the voice. "Tarry a moment. Where's
that cursed ..." and sounds of hasty search among jingling accoutrements were followed by a
snatch of song of which the boy instantly recognized the words. He had often heard Dearest
sing them.

Lubin appeared, bearing a funny, fat, black bottle, a black cup (both appeared to be of leather),
and a kind of leaden plate on which was a small funnily-shaped loaf of bread.

"'Tis well you want none," observed the tall gentleman, "I had asked you to help me crush a
flask else," and on the word the singer emerged from the tent.

"Jest not on solemn subjects, Seymour," he said soberly, "Wine may carry me over one more pike-parade....
Good lad.... Here's to thee.... Why should gentlemen drill?... I came to fight for the King,
not to ... But, isn't this thy day for de Warrenne? Oh, ten million fiends! Plague and pest!
And I cannot see thee stick him, Seymour ..." and the speaker dashed the black drinking-vessel
violently on the ground, having carefully emptied it.

The boy did not much like him.

His lace collar was enormous and his black velvet coat was embroidered all over with yellow
silk designs, flowers, and patterns. It was like the silly mantel-borders and things that Mrs.
Pont, the housekeeper, did in her leisure time. ("Cruel-work" she called it, and the boy quite
agreed.)

This man's face was pink and fair, his hair golden.

"Warn him not of the hilt-thrust, Seymour, lad," he said suddenly. "Give it him first--for
a sneering, bullying, taverning, chambering knave."

The tall gentleman glanced at his down-flung cup, raised his eyebrows, and drank from the bottle.

"Such would annoy you, Hal, of course," he murmured.

A man dressed in what appeared to be a striped football jersey under a leather waistcoat and
steel breast-plate, high boots and a steel helmet led up a great horse.

The boy loved the horse. It was very like "Fire".

The gentleman (called Seymour) patted it fondly, stroked his nose, and gave it a piece of his
bread.

"Well, Crony Long-Face?" he said fondly.

He then put his left foot in the great box-stirrup and swung himself into the saddle--a very
different kind of saddle from those with which the boy was familiar.

It reminded him of Circuses and the Lord Mayor's Show. It was big enough for two and there
was a lot of velvet and stuff about it and a fine gold C.R.--whatever that might mean--on a
big pretty cloth under it (perhaps the gentleman's initials were C.R. just as his own were
D. de W. and on some of his things).

The great fat handle of a great fat pistol stuck up on each side of the front of the saddle.

"Follow," said the gentleman to the iron-bound person, and moved off at a walk towards a road
not far distant.

"Stap him! Spit him, Seymour," called the pink-faced man, "and warn him not of the hilt-thrust."

As he passed the corner of the camp, two men with great axe-headed spear things performed curious
evolutions with their cumbersome weapons, finally laying the business ends of them on the ground
as the gentleman rode by.

He touched his hat to them with his switch.

Continuing for a mile or so, at a walk, he entered a dense coppice and dismounted.

"Await me," he said to his follower, gave him the curb-rein, and walked on to an open glade
a hundred yards away.

(It was a perfect spot for Red Indians, Smugglers, Robin Hood, Robinson Crusoe or any such
game, the boy noted.)

Almost at the same time, three other men entered the clearing, two together, and one from a
different quarter.

"For the hundredth time, Seymour, lad, mention not the hilt-thrust, as you love me and the
King," said this last one quietly as he approached the gentleman; and then the two couples
behaved in a ridiculous manner with their befeathered hats, waving them in great circles as
they bowed to each other, and finally laying them on their hearts before replacing them.

"Mine honour is my guide, Will," answered the gentleman called Seymour, somewhat pompously
the boy considered, though he did not know the word.

Sir Seymour then began to remove the slashed coat and other garments until he stood in his
silk stockings, baggy knickerbockers, and jolly cambric shirt--nice and loose and free at the
neck as the boy thought.

He rolled up his right sleeve, drew the sword, and made one or two passes--like Sergeant Havlan
always did before he began fencing.

The other two men, meantime, had been behaving somewhat similarly--talking together earnestly
and one of them undressing.

The one who did this was a very powerful-looking man and the arm he bared reminded the boy
of that of a "Strong Man" he had seen recently at Monksmead Fair, in a tent, and strangely
enough his face reminded him of that of his own Father.

He had a nasty face though, the boy considered, and looked like a bounder because he had pimples,
a swelly nose, a loud voice, and a swanky manner. The boy disapproved of him wholly. It was
like his cheek to resemble Father, as well as to have the same name.

His companion came over to the gentleman called Will, carrying the strong man's bared sword
and, bowing ridiculously (with his hat, both hands, and his feet) said:--

"Shall we measure, Captain Ormonde Delorme?"

Captain Delorme then took the sword from Sir Seymour, bowed as the other had done, and handed
him the sword with a mighty flourish, hilt first.

It proved to be half an inch shorter than the other, and Captain Delorme remarked that his
Principal would waive that.

He and the strong man's companion then chose a spot where the grass was very short and smooth,
where there were no stones, twigs or inequalities, and where the light of the setting sun fell
sideways upon the combatants--who tip-toed gingerly, and rather ridiculously, in their stockinged
feet, to their respective positions. Facing each other, they saluted with their swords and
then stood with the right arm pointing downwards and across the body so that the hilt of the
sword was against the right thigh and the blade directed to the rear.

"One word, Sir Matthew de Warrenne," said Sir Seymour as they paused in this attitude. "If
my point rests for a second on your hilt you are a dead man."

Sir Matthew laughed in an ugly manner and replied:--

"And what is your knavish design now, Sir Seymour Stukeley?"

"My design was to warn you of an infallible trick of fence, Sir Matthew. It now is to kill
you--for the insult, and on behalf of ... your own unhappy daughter."

The other yawned and remarked to his friend:--

"I have a parade in half an hour."

"On guard," cried the person addressed, drawing his sword and striking an attitude.

"Play," cried Captain Delorme, doing similarly.

Both principals crouched somewhat, held their swords horizontal, with point to the adversary's
breast and hilt drawn back, arm sharply bent--for both, it appeared, had perfected the Art
of Arts in Italy.

These niceties escaped the boy in his earlier dreamings of the dream--but the time came when
he could name every pass, parry, invitation, and riposte.

The strong man suddenly threw his sword-hand high and towards his left shoulder, keeping his
sword horizontal, and exposing the whole of his right side.

Sir Seymour lunged hard for his ribs, beneath the right arm-pit and, as the other's sword swooped
down to catch his, twist it over, and riposte, he feinted, cleared the descending sword, and
thrust at the throat. A swift ducking crouch let the sword pass over the strong man's head,
and only a powerful French circular parry saved the life of Sir Seymour Stukeley.

As the boy realized later, he fought Italian in principle, and used the best of French parries,
ripostes, and tricks, upon occasion--and his own perfected combination of the two schools made
him, according to Captain Delorme, the best fencer in the King's army. So at least the Captain
said to the other second, as they amicably chatted while their friends sought to slay each
other before their hard, indifferent-seeming eyes.

To the boy their talk conveyed little--as yet.

The duellists stepped back as the "phrase" ended, and then Sir Seymour gave an "invitation,"
holding his sword-arm wide to the right of his body. Sir Matthew lunged, his sword was caught,
carried out to the left, and held there as Sir Seymour's blade slid inward along it. Just in
time, Sir Matthew's inward pressure carried Sir Seymour's sword clear to the right again. Sir
Matthew disengaged over, and, as the sudden release brought Sir Seymour's sword springing in,
he thrust under that gentleman's right arm and scratched his side.

As he recovered his sword he held it for a moment with the point raised toward Sir Seymour's
face. Instantly Sir Seymour's point tinkled on his hilt, and Captain Delorme murmured "Finis"
beneath his breath.

Sir Stukeley Seymour's blade shot in, Sir Matthew's moved to parry, and the point of the advancing
sword flickered under his hand, turned upward, and pierced his heart.

"Yes," said Captain Delorme, as the stricken man fell, "if he parries outward the point goes
under, if he anticipates a feint it comes straight in, and if he parries a lunge-and-feint-under,
he gets feint-over before he can come up. I have never seen Stukeley miss when once he rests
on the hilt. Exit de Warrenne--and Hell the worse for it----" and the boy awoke.

He kissed the sword and fell asleep again.

One day, when receiving his morning fencing and boxing lessons of Sergeant Havlan, he astonished
that warrior (and made a bitter enemy of him) by warning him against allowing his blade to
rest on the Sergeant's hilt, and by hitting him clean and fair whenever it was allowed to happen.
Also, by talking of "the Italian school of fence" and of "invitations"--the which were wholly
outside the fencing-philosophy of the French-trained swordsman. At the age of fifteen the boy
was too good for the man who had been the best that Aldershot had known, who had run a salle
d'armes for years, and who was much sought by ambitious members of the Sword Club.

The Sword, from the day of that newly vivid dream, became to the boy what his Symbol is to
the religious fanatic, and he was content to sit and stare at it, musing, for hours.

The sad-eyed, sentimental lady encouraged him and spoke of Knights, Chivalry, Honour, Noblesse
Oblige, and Ideals such as the nineteenth century knew not and the world will never know again.

"Be a real and true Knight, sonny darling," she would say, "and live to help. Help women--God
knows they need it. And try to be able to say at the end of your life, 'I have never made a
woman weep'. Yes--be a Knight and have 'Live pure, Speak true, Right wrong' on your shield.
Be a Round Table Knight and ride through the world bravely. Your dear Father was a great swordsman.
You may have the sword down and kiss it, the first thing every morning--and you must salute
it every night as you go up to bed. You shall wear a sword some day."

(Could the poor lady but have foreseen!)

She also gave him over-copiously and over-early of her simple, fervent, vague Theology, and
much Old and New Testament History, with the highest and noblest intentions--and succeeded
in implanting a deep distrust and dislike of "God" in his acutely intelligent mind.

To a prattling baby, Mother should be God enough--God and all the angels and paradise in one
... (but he had never known a mother and Nurse Beaton had ever been more faithfully conscientious
in deed than tenderly loving in manner).

She filled his soul with questionings and his mouth with questions which she could not answer,
and which he answered for himself. The questions sometimes appalled her.

If God so loved the world, why did He let the Devil loose in it?

If God could do anything, why didn't He lay the Devil out with one hand?

If He always rewarded the Good and punished the Bad, why was Dearest so unhappy, and drunken
Poacher Iggulsby so very gay and prosperously naughty?

He knew too that his dead Father had not been "good," for he heard servant-talk, and terrible
old "Grandfather" always forgot that "Little Pitchers have Long Ears".

If God always answered devout and faith-inspired prayer, why did He not

1. Save Caiaphas the cat when earnestly prayed for--having been run over by Pattern in the
dog-cart, coming out of the stables?

2. Send the mechanical steam-boat so long and earnestly prayed for, with Faith and Belief?

3. Help the boy to lead a higher and a better life, to eat up his crusts and fat as directed,
to avoid chivvying the hens, inking his fingers, haunting the stables, stealing green apples
in the orchard, tearing his clothes, and generally doing evil with fire, water, mud, stones
and other tempting and injurious things?

And was it entirely decent of God to be eternally spying on a fellow, as appeared to be His
confirmed habit?

As for that awful heart-rending Crucifixion, was that the sort of thing for a Father to look
on at.... As bad as that brutal old Abraham with Isaac his son ... were all "Good" Fathers
like that ...?

And nightmare dreams of Hell--a Hell in which there was a Snake--wrought no improvement.

And the Bible! How strangely and dully they talked, and what people! That nasty Jacob and Esau
business, those horrid Israelites, the Unfaithful Steward; the Judge who let himself be pestered
into action; those poor unfortunate swine that were made to rush violently down the steep place
into the sea; Ananias and Sapphira. No--not a nice book at all.

The truth is that Theology, at the age of seven, is not commendable--setting aside the question
of whether (at any age) Theology is a web of words, ritual, dogma, tradition, invention, shibboleth;
a web originally spun by interested men to obscure God from their dupes.

So the boy worshipped Dearest and distrusted and disliked the God she gave him, a big sinister
bearded Man who hung spread-eagled above the world, covering the entire roof of the Universe,
and watched, watched, watched, with unwinking, all-seeing eye, and remembered with unforgetting,
unrelenting mind. Cruel. Ungentlemanly. Jealous! Cold.

Also the boy fervently hoped it might never be his lot to go to Heaven--a shockingly dreary
place where it was always Sunday and one must, presumably, be very quiet except when singing
hymns. A place tenanted by white-robed Angels, unsympathetic towards dirty-faced little sinners
who tore their clothes. Angels, cold, superior, unhuggable, haughty, given to ecstatic throes,
singers of Hallelujah and other silly words--always praising.

How he loathed and dreaded the idea of Dearest being an Angel! Fancy sweet Dearest or his own
darling Lucille with silly wings (like a beastly goose or turkey in dear old Cook's larder),
with a long trumpet, perhaps, in a kind of night-gown, flying about the place, it wasn't decent
at all--Dearest and Lucille, whom he adored and hugged--unsympathetic, cold, superior, unhuggable,
haughty; and the boy who was very, very tender-hearted, would throw his arms round Dearest's
neck and hug and hug and hug, for he abhorred the thought of her becoming a beastly angel.

Surely, if God knew His business, Dearest would be always happy and bright and live ever so
long, and be ever so old, forty years and more.

And Dearest, fearing that her idolized boy might grow up a man like--well, like "Grumper" had
been--hard, quarrelsome, adventurous, flippant, wicked, pleasure-loving, drunken, Godless ...
redoubled her efforts to Influence-the-child's-mind-for-good by means of the Testaments and
Theology, the Covenant, the Deluge, Miracles, the Immaculate Conception, the Last Supper, the
Resurrection, Pentecost, Creeds, Collects, Prayers.

And the boy's mind weighed these things deliberately, pondered them, revolted--and rejected
them one and all.

Dearest had been taken in....

He said the prayers she taught him mechanically, and when he felt the need of real prayer--(as
he did when he had dreamed of the Snake)--he always began, "If you are there, God, and are
a good, kind God" ... and concluded, "Yours sincerely, Damocles de Warrenne".

He got but little comfort, however, for his restless and logical mind asked:--

"If God knows best and will surely do what is best, why bother Him? And if He does not and
will not, why bother yourself?"

But Dearest succeeded, at any rate, in filling his young soul with a love of beauty, romance,
high adventure, honour, and all physical, mental, and moral cleanliness.

She taught him to use his imagination, and she made books a necessity. She made him a gentleman
in soul--as distinct from a gentleman in clothes, pocket, or position.

She gave him a beautiful veneration for woman that no other woman was capable of destroying--though
one or two did their best. Then the sad-eyed lady was superseded and her professional successor,
Miss Smellie, the governess, finding the boy loved the Sword, asked Grumper to lock it away
for the boy's Good.

Also she got Grumper to dismiss Nurse Beaton for impudence and not "knowing her place".

But Damocles entered into an offensive and defensive alliance with Lucille, on whom he lavished
the whole affection of his deeply, if undemonstratively, affectionate nature, and the two "hunted
in couples," sinned and suffered together, pooled their resources and their wits, found consolation
in each other when harried by Miss Smellie, spent every available moment in each other's society
and, like the Early Christians, had all things in common.

On birthdays, "high days and holidays" he would ask "Grumper" to let him have the Sword for
an hour or two, and would stand with it in his hand, rapt, enthralled, ecstatic. How strange
it made one feel! How brave, and anxious to do fine deeds. He would picture himself bearing
an unconscious Lucille in his left arm through hostile crowds, while with the Sword he thrust
and hewed, parried and guarded.... Who could fear anything with the Sword in his hand, the
Sword of the Dream! How glorious to die wielding it, wielding it in a good cause ... preferably
on behalf of Lucille, his own beloved little pal, staunch, clever, and beautiful. And he told
Lucille tales of the Sword and of how he loved it!

CHAPTER V.

LUCILLE.

"If you drinks a drop more, Miss Lucy, you'll just go like my pore young sister goed," observed
Cook in a warning voice, as Lucille paused to get her second wind for the second draught.

(Lucille had just been tortured at the stake by Sioux and Blackfeet--thirsty work on a July
afternoon.)

"And how did she go, Cookie-Bird--Pop?" inquired Lucille politely, with round eyes, considering
over the top of the big lemonade-flagon as it rose again to her determined little mouth.

"No, Miss Lucy," replied Cook severely. "Pop she did not. She swole ... swole and swole."

"You mean 'swelled,' Cookoo," corrected Lucille, inclined to be a little didactic and corrective
at the age of ten.

"Well, she were my sister after all, Miss Lucy," retorted Cook, "and perhaps I may, or may
not, know what she done. I say she swole--and what is more she swole clean into a dropsy. All
along of drinking water.... Drops of water--Dropsy."

"Never drink water," murmured Dam, absentmindedly annexing, and pocketing, an apple.

"Ah, water, but you see this is lemonade," countered Lucille. "Home-made, too, and not--er--gusty.
It doesn't make you go----" and here it is regrettable to have to relate that Lucille made
a shockingly realistic sound, painfully indicative of the condition of one who has imbibed
unwisely and too well of a gas-impregnated liquor.

"No more does water in my experiants," returned Cook, "and I was not allooding to wulgarity,
Miss Lucy, which you should know better than to do such. My pore young sister's systerm turned
watery and they tapped her at the last. All through drinking too much water, which lemonade
ain't so very different either, be it never so 'ome-made.... Tapped 'er they did--like a carksk,
an' 'er a Band of 'Oper, Blue Ribander, an' Sunday Schooler from birth, an' not departin' from
it when she grew up. Such be the Ways of Providence," and Cook sighed with protestive respectfulness....

"Tapped 'er systerm, they did," she added pensively, and with a little justifiable pride.

"Were they hard taps?" inquired Lucille, reappearing from behind the flagon. "I hate them myself,
even on the funny-bone or knuckles--but on the cistern! Ugh!"

"Hard taps; they was silver taps," ejaculated Cook, "and drawed gallings and gallings--and
nothing to laugh at, Master Dammicles, neether.... So don't you drink no more, Miss Lucy."

"I can't," admitted Lucille--and indeed, to Dam, who regarded his "cousin" with considerable
concern, it did seem that, even as Cook's poor young sister of unhappy memory, Lucille had
"swole"--though only locally.

"Does beer make you swell or swole or swellow when you swallow, Cooker?" he inquired; "because,
if so, you had better be--" but he was not allowed to conclude his deduction, for cook, bridling,
bristling, and incensed, bore down upon the children and swept them from her kitchen.

To the boy, even as he fled via a dish of tartlets and cakes, it seemed remarkable that a certain
uncertainty of temper (and figure) should invariably distinguish those who devote their lives
to the obviously charming and attractive pursuit of the culinary art.

Surely one who, by reason of unfortunate limitations of sex, age, ability, or property, could
not become a Colonel of Cavalry could still find infinite compensation in the career of cook
or railway-servant.

Imagine, in the one case, having absolute freedom of action with regard to raisins, tarts,
cream, candy-peel, jam, plum-puddings and cakes, making life one vast hamper, and in the other
case, boundless opportunity in the matter of leaping on and off moving trains, carrying lighted
bull's-eye lanterns, and waving flags.

One of the early lessons that life taught him, without troubling to explain them, and she taught
him many and cruel, was that Cooks are Cross.

"What shall we do now, Dam?" asked Lucille, and added, "Let's raid the rotten nursery and rag
the Haddock. Little ass! Nothing else to do. How I hate Sunday afternoon.... No work and no
play. Rotten."

The Haddock, it may be stated, owed his fishy title to the fact that he once possessed a Wealthy
Relative of the name of Haddon. With far-sighted reversionary intent his mother, a Mrs. Berners
née Seymour Stukeley, had christened him Haddon.

But the Wealthy Relative, on being informed of his good fortune, had bluntly replied that he
intended to leave his little all to the founding of Night-Schools for illiterate Members of
Parliament, Travelling-Scholarships for uneducated Cabinet Ministers, and Deportment Classes
for New Radical Peers. He was a Funny Man as well as a Wealthy Relative.

And, thereafter, Haddon Berners' parents had, as Cook put it, "up and died" and "Grandfather"
had sent for, and adopted, the orphan Haddock.

Though known to Dam and Lucille as "The Haddock" he was in reality an utter Rabbit and esteemed
as such. A Rabbit he was born, a Rabbit he lived, and a Rabbit he died. Respectable ever. Seen
in the Right Place, in the Right Clothes, doing the Right Thing with the Right People at the
Right Time.

Lucille was the daughter of Sylvester Bethune Gavestone, the late and lamented Bishop of Minsterbury
(once a cavalry subaltern), a school, Sandhurst, and life-long friend of "Grandfather," and
husband of "Grandfather's" cousin, Geraldine Seymour Stukeley.

Poor "Grandfather," known to the children as "Grumper," the ferocious old tyrant who loved
all mankind and hated all men, with him adoption was a habit, and the inviting of other children
to stay as long as they liked with the adopted children, a craze.

And yet he rarely saw the children, never played with them, and hated to be disturbed.

He had out-lived his soldier-contemporaries, his children, his power to ride to hounds, his
pretty taste in wine, his fencing, dancing, flirting, and all that had made life bearable--everything,
as he said, but his gout and his liver (and, it may be added, except his ferocious, brutal temper).

"Yes.... Let us circumvent, decoy, and utterly destroy the common Haddock," agreed Dam.

The entry into the nursery was an effective night-attack by Blackfeet (not to mention hands)
but was spoilt by the presence of Miss Smellie who was sitting there knitting relentlessly.

"Never burst into rooms, children," she said coldly. "One expects little of a boy, but a girl
should try to appear a Young Lady. Come and sit by me, Lucille. What did you come in for--or
rather for what did you burst in?"

"We came to play with the Haddock," volunteered Dam.

"Very kind and thoughtful of you, I am sure," commented Miss Smellie sourly. "Most obliging
and benevolent," and, with a sudden change to righteous anger and bitterness, "Why don't you
speak the truth?"

"I am speaking the truth, Miss--er--Smellie," replied the boy. "We did come to play with the
dear little Haddock--like one plays with a football or a frog. I didn't say we came for Haddock's
good."

"We needed the Haddock, you see, Miss Smellie," confirmed Lucille.

"How many times am I to remind you that Haddon Berners' name is Haddon, Lucille," inquired
Miss Smellie. "Why must you always prefer vulgarity? One expects vulgarity from a boy--but
a girl should try to appear a Young Lady."

With an eye on Dam, Lucille protruded a very red tongue at surprising length, turned one eye
far inward toward her nose, wrinkled that member incredibly, corrugated her forehead grievously,
and elongated her mouth disastrously. The resultant expression of countenance admirably expressed
the general juvenile view of Miss Smellie and all her works.

Spurred to honourable emulation, the boy strove to excel. Using both hands for the elongation
of his eyes, the extension of his mouth, and the depression of his ears, he turned upon the
Haddock so horrible a mask that the stricken child burst into a howl, if not into actual tears.

"What's the matter, Haddon?" demanded Miss Smellie, looking up with quick suspicion.

"Dam made a fathe at me," whimpered the smitten one.

"Say 'made a grimace' not 'made a face,'" corrected Miss Smellie. "Only God can make faces."

Dam exploded.

"At what are you laughing, Damocles?" she asked sternly.

"Nothing, Miss Smellie. What you said sounded rather funny and a little irrevilent or is it
irrembrant?"

"Damocles! Should I be likely to say anything Irreverent? Should I ever dream of Irreverence?
What can you mean? And never let me see you make faces again."

"I didn't let you see me, Miss Smellie, and only God can make faces--"

"Leave the room at once, Sir, I shall report your impudence to your great-uncle," hissed Miss
Smellie, rising in wrath--and the bad abandoned boy had attained his object. Detention in the
nursery for a Sunday afternoon was no part of his programme.

Most unobtrusively Lucille faded away also.

"Isn't she a hopeless beast," murmured she as the door closed.

"Utter rotter," admitted the boy. "Let's slope out into the garden and dig some worms for bait."

"Yes," agreed Lucille, and added, "Parse Smellie," whereupon, with one voice and heart and
purpose the twain broke into a paean, not of praise--a kind of tribal lay, and chanted:--

"Smellie--Very common noun, absurd person, singular back number, tutor gender, objectionable
case governed by the word I," and so da capo.

And yet the poor lady strove to do her duty in that station of life in which it had pleased
Providence (or a drunken father) to place her--and to make the children "genteel". Had she
striven to win their love instead, her ministrations might have had some effect (other than
infinite irritation and bitter dislike).

She was the Compleat Governess, on paper, and all that a person entrusted with the training
of young children should not be, in reality. She had innumerable and admirable testimonials
from various employers of what she termed "aristocratic standing"; endless certificates that
testified unto her successful struggles in Music, Drawing, Needlework, German, French, Calisthenics,
Caligraphy, and other mysteries, including the more decorous Sciences (against Physiology,
Anatomy, Zoology, Biology, and Hygiene she set her face as subjects apt to be, at times, improper),
and an appearance and manner themselves irrefragible proofs of the highest moral virtue.

She also had the warm and unanimous witness of the children at Monksmead that she was a Beast.

To those who frankly realize with open eyes that the student of life must occasionally encounter
indelicacies upon the pleasant path of research, it may be revealed, in confidence, that they
alluded to Miss Smellie as "Sniffy" when not, under extreme provocation, as "Stinker".

She taught them many things and, prominently, Deceit, Hate, and an utter dislike of her God
and her Religion--a most disastrous pair.

Poor old "Grumper"; advertising, he got her, paid her highly, and gave her almost absolute
control of the minds, souls, and bodies of his young wards and "grandchildren".

"The best of everything" for them--and they, at the average age of eight, a band of depressed,
resentful babes, had "hanged, drawed, and quartered" her in effigy, within a month of coming
beneath her stony ministrations.

In appearance Miss Smellie was tall, thin, and flat. Most exceedingly and incredibly flat.
Impossibly flat. Her figure, teeth, voice, hair, manner, hats, clothes, and whole life and
conduct were flat as Euclid's plane-surface or yesterday's champagne.

To counter-balance the possession, perhaps, of so many virtues, gifts, testimonials, and certificates
she had no chin, no eyebrows, and no eyelashes. Her eyes were weak and watery; her spectacles
strong and thick; her nose indeterminate, wavering, erratic; her ears large, her teeth irregular
and protrusive, her mouth unfortunate and not guaranteed to close.

An ugly female face is said to be the index and expression of an ugly mind. It certainly was
so in the case of Miss Smellie. Not that she had an evil or vicious mind in any way--far from
it, for she was a narrowly pious and dully conscientious woman. Her mind was ugly as a useful
building may be very ugly--or as a room devoid of beautiful furniture or over-crowded with
cheap furniture may be ugly.

And her mind was devoid of beautiful thought-furniture, and over-crowded with cheap and ugly
furniture of text-book facts. She was an utterly loveless woman, living unloving, and unloved--a
terrible condition.

One could not like her.

Deadly dull, narrow, pedantic, petty, uninspiring, Miss Smellie's ideals, standards, and aims
were incredibly low.

She lived, and taught others to live, for appearances.

The children were so to behave that they might appear "genteel". If they were to do this or
that, no one would think they were young ladies or young gentlemen.

"If we were out at tea and you did that, I should be ashamed," she would cry when some healthy
little human licked its jarnmy fingers, and "Do you wish to be considered vulgar or a little
gentleman, Damocles?"

Damocles was profoundly indifferent on the point and said so plainly.

They were not to be clean of hand for hygienic reasons--but for fear of what people might "think";
they were not to be honourable, gentle, brave and truthful because these things are fine--but
because of what the World might dole out in reward; they were not to eat slowly and masticate
well for their health's sake--but by reason of "good manners"; they were not to study that
they might develop their powers of reasoning, store their minds, and enlarge their horizons--but
that they might pass some infernal examination or other, ad majorem Smelliae gloriam; they
were not to practise the musical art that they might have a soul-developing aesthetic training,
a means of solace, delight, and self-expression--but that they might "play their piece" to
the casual visitor to the school-room with priggish pride, expectant of praise; they were not
to be Christian for any other reason than that it was the recommended way to Eternal Bliss
and a Good Time Hereafter--the whole duty of canny and respectable man being to "save his soul"
therefore.

Her charges were skilfully, if unintentionally, trained in hypocrisy and mean motive, to look
for low reward and strive for paltry ends--to do what looked well, say what sounded well, to
be false, veneered, ungenuine.

And Miss Smellie was giving them the commonly accepted "education" of their class and kind.

The prize product of the Smellie system was the Haddock whose whole life was a pose, a lie,
a refusal to see the actual. Perhaps she influenced him more strongly than the others because
he was caught younger and was of weaker fibre. Anyhow he grew up the perfect and heartless
snob, and by the time he left Oxford, he would sooner have been seen in a Black Maria with
Lord Snooker than in a heavenly chariot with a prophet of unmodish garment and vulgar ancestry.

To the finished Haddock, a tie was more than a character, and the cut of a coat more than the
cutting of a loving heart.

To him a "gentleman" was a person who had the current accent and waistcoat, a competence, the
entree here and there--a goer unto the correct places with the correct people. Manners infinitely
more than conduct; externals everything; let the whitening be white and the sepulchre mattered not.

The Haddock had no bloodful vice, but he was unstable as water and could not excel, a moral
coward and weakling, a liar, a borrower of what he never intended to return, undeniably and
incurably mean, the complete parasite.

From the first he feared and blindly obeyed Miss Smellie, propitiated while loathing her; accepted
her statements, standards, and beliefs; curried favour and became her spy and informer.

"What's about the record cricket-ball throw, Dam?" inquired Lucille, as they strolled down
the path to the orchard and kitchen-garden, hot-houses, stream and stables, to seek the coy,
reluctant worm.

"Dunno," replied the boy, "but a hundred yards wants a lot of doing."

"Wonder if I could do it," mused Lucille, picking up a tempting egg-shaped pebble, nearly as
big as her fist, and throwing it with remarkably neat action (for a girl) at the first pear-tree
over the bridge that spanned the trout-stream.

At, but not into.

With that extraordinary magnetic attraction which glass has for the missile of the juvenile
thrower, the orchid-house, on the opposite side of the path from the pear-tree, drew the errant
stone to its hospitable shelter.

Through the biggest pane of glass it crashed, neatly decapitated a rare, choice exotic, the
pride of Mr. Alastair Kenneth MacIlwraith, head gardener, released from its hold a hanging
basket, struck a large pot (perched high in a state of unstable equilibrium), and passed out
on the other side with something accomplished, something done, to earn a long repose.

So much for the stone.

The descending pot lit upon the edge of one side of the big glass aquarium, smashed it, and
continued its career, precipitating an avalanche of lesser pots and their priceless contents.

The hanging basket, now an unhung and travelling basket, heavy, iron-ribbed, anciently mossy,
oozy of slime, fell with neat exactitude upon the bald, bare cranium of Mr. Alastair Kenneth
MacIlwraith, head gardener, and dour, irascible child and woman hater.

"Bull's-eye!" commented Dam--always terse when not composing fairy-tales.

"Crikey!" shrieked Lucille. "That's done it," and fled straightway to her room and violent
earnest prayer, not for forgiveness but for salvation, from consequences. (What's the good
of Saying your Prayers if you can't look for Help in Time of Trouble such as this?)

The face of Mr. Alastair Kenneth MacIlwraith was not pleasant to see as he pranced forth from
the orchid-house, brandishing an implement of his trade.

"Ye'll be needing a wash the day, Mon Sandy, and the Sawbath but fower days syne," opined Dam,
critically observing the moss-and-mud streaked head, face and neck of the raving, incoherent
victim of Lucille's effort.

When at all lucid and comprehensible Mr. MacIlwraith was understood to say he'd give his place
(and he twanty-twa years in it) to have the personal trouncing of Dam, that Limb, that Deevil,
that predestined and fore-doomed Child of Sin, that--

Dam pocketed his hands and said but:--

"Havers, Mon Sandy!"

"I'll tak' the hide fra y'r bones yet, ye feckless, impident--"

Dam shook a disapproving head and said but:--

"Clavers, Mon Sandy!"

"I'll see ye skelped onny-how--or lose ma job, ye--"

More in sorrow than in anger Dam sighed and said but:--

"Hoots, Mon Sandy!"

"I'll go straight to y'r Grandfer the noo, and if ye'r not flayed alive! Aye! I'll gang the
noo to Himself----"

"Wi' fower an twanty men, an' five an' thairrty pipers," suggested Dam in tuneful song.

Mr. Alastair Kenneth MacIlwraith did what he rarely did--swore violently.

"Do you think at your age it is right?" quoted the wicked boy ... the exceedingly bad and reprehensible
boy.

The maddened gardener turned and strode to the house with all his imperfections on his head
and face and neck.

Taking no denial from Butterson, he forced his way into the presence of his master and clamoured
for instant retributive justice--or the acceptance of his resignation forthwith, and him twanty-twa
years in the ane place.

"Grandfather," roused from slumber, gouty, liverish, ferociously angry, sent for Dam, Sergeant
Havlan, and Sergeant Havlan's cane.

"What's the meaning of this, Sir," he roared as Dam, cool, smiling, friendly ever, entered
the Sanctum. "What the Devil d'ye mean by it, eh? Wreckin' my orchid-houses, assaultin' my
servants, waking me up, annoying ME! Seven days C.B.[15] and bread and water, on each count.
What d'ye mean by it, ye young hound? Eh? Answer me before I have ye flogged to death to teach
ye better manners! Guilty or Not Guilty? and I'll take your word for it."

"The missile, describing a parabola, struck its subjective with fearful impact, Sir," replied
the bad boy imperturbably, misquoting from his latest fiction (and calling it a "parry-bowler,"
to "Grandfather's" considerable and very natural mystification).

"What?" roared that gentleman, sitting bolt upright in astonishment and wrath.

"No. It's objective," corrected Dam. "Yes. With fearful impact. Fearful also were the words
of the Mon Sandy."

"Grandfather" flushed and smiled a little wryly.

"You'd favour me with pleasantries too, would you? I'll reciprocate to the best of my poor
ability," he remarked silkily, and his mouth set in the unpleasant Stukeley grimness, while
a little muscular pulse beat beneath his cheek-bone.

"A dozen of the very best, if you please, Sergeant," he added, turning to Sergeant Havlan.

"Coat off, Sir," remarked that worthy, nothing loath, to the boy who could touch him almost
as he would with the foil.

Dam removed his Eton jacket, folded his arms, turned his back to the smiter and assumed a scientific
arrangement of the shoulders with tense muscles and coyly withdrawn bones. He had been there
before....

The dozen were indeed of the Sergeant's best and he was a master. The boy turned not a hair,
though he turned a little pale.... His mouth grew extraordinarily like that of his grandfather
and a little muscular pulse beat beneath his cheek-bone.

"And what do you think of my pleasantries, my young friend?" inquired Grandfather. "Feeling
at all witty now?"

"Havlan is failing a bit, Sir," was the cool reply. "I have noticed it at fencing too--Getting
old--or beer perhaps. I scarcely felt him and so did not see or feel the point of your joke."

"Grandfather's" flush deepened and his smile broadened crookedly. "Try and do yourself justice,
Havlan," he said. "'Nother dozen. 'Tother way."

Sergeant Havlan changed sides and endeavoured to surpass himself. It was a remarkably sound dozen.

He mopped his brow.

The bad boy did not move, gave no sign, but retained his rigid, slightly hunched attitude,
as though he had not counted the second dozen and expected another stroke.

"Let that be a lesson to you to curb your damned tongue," said "Grandfather," his anger evaporating,
his pride in the stiff-necked, defiant young rogue increasing.

The boy changed not the rigid, slightly hunched attitude.

"Be pleased to wreck no more of my orchid-houses and to exercise your great wit on your equals
and juniors," he added.

Dam budged not an inch and relaxed not a muscle.

"You may go," said "Grandfather".... "Well--what are you waiting for?"

"I was waiting for Sergeant Havlan to begin," was the reply. "I thought I was to have a second
dozen."

With blazing eyes, bristling moustache, swollen veins and bared teeth, "Grandfather" rose from
his chair. Resting on one stick he struck and struck and struck at the boy with the other,
passion feeding on its own passionate acts, and growing to madness--until, as the head gardener
and Sergeant rushed forward to intervene, Dam fell to the ground, stunned by an unintentional
blow on the head.

"Grandfather" stood trembling.... "Quite a Stukeley," observed he. "Oblige me by flinging his
carcase down the stairs."

"'Angry Stookly's mad Stookly' is about right, mate, wot?" observed the Sergeant to the gardener,
quoting an ancient local saying, as they carried Dam to his room after dispatching a groom
for Dr. Jones of Monksmead.

"Dammy Darling," whispered a broken and tear-stained voice outside Dam's locked and keyless
door the next morning, "are you dead yet?"

"Nit," was the prompt reply, "but I'm starving to death, fast."

"I am so glad," was the sobbed answer, "for I've got some flat food to push under the door."

"Shove it under," said Dam. "Good little beast!"

"I didn't know anything about the fearful fracass until tea-time," continued Lucille, "and
then I went straight to Grumper and confessed, and he sent me to bed on an empty stummick and
I laid upon it, the bed I mean, and howled all night, or part of it anyhow. I howled for your
sake, not for the empty stummick. I thought my howls would break or at least soften his hard
heart, but I don't think he heard them. I'm sure he didn't, in fact, or I should not have been
allowed to howl so loud and long.... Did he blame you with anger as well as injustice?"

"With a stick," was the reply. "What about that grub?"

"I told him you were an innocent unborn babe and that Justice had had a mis-carriage, but he
only grinned and said you had got C.B. and dry bread for insilence in the Orderly Room. What
is 'insilence'?"

"Pulling Havlan's leg, I s'pose," opined Dam. "What about that grub? There comes a time when
you are too hungry to eat and then you die. I--"

"Here it is," squealed Lucille, "don't go and die after all my trouble. I've got some thin
ice-wafer biscuits, sulphur tablets, thin cheese, a slit-up apple and three sardines. They'll
all come under the door--though the sardines may get a bit out of shape. I'll come after lessons
and suck some brandy-balls here and breathe through the key-hole to comfort you. I could blow
them through the key-hole when they are small too."

"Thanks," acknowledged Dam gratefully, "and if you could tie some up and a sausage and a tart
or two and some bread-and-jam and some chicken and cake and toffee and things in a handkerchief,
and climb on to the porch with Grumper's longest fishing-rod, you might be able to relieve
the besieged garrison a lot. If the silly Haddock were any good he could fire sweets up with
a catapult."

"I'd try that too," announced Lucille, "but I'd break the windows. I feel I shall never have
the heart to throw a stone or anything again. My heart is broken," and the penitent sinner
groaned in deep travail of soul.

"Have you eaten everything, Darling? How do you feel?" she suddenly asked.

"Yes. Hungrier than ever," was the reply. "I like sulphur tablets with sardines. Wonder when
they'll bring that beastly dry bread?"

"If there's a sulphur tablet left I could eat one myself," said Lucille. "They are good for
the inside and I have wept mine sore."

"Too late," answered Dam. "Pinch some more."

"They were the last," was the sad rejoinder. "They were for Rover's coat, I think. Perhaps
they will make your coat hairy, Dam. I mean your skin."

"Whiskers to-morrow," said Dam.

After a pregnant silence the young lady announced:--

"Wish I could hug and kiss you, Darling. Don't you?... I'll write a kiss on a piece of paper
and push it under the door to you. Better than spitting it through the key-hole."

"Put it on a piece of ham,--more sense," answered Dam.

The quarter-inch rasher that, later, made its difficult entry, pulled fore and pushed aft,
was probably the only one in the whole history of Ham that was the medium of a kiss--located
and indicated by means of a copying-ink pencil and a little saliva.

Before being sent away to school at Wellingborough Dam had a very curious illness, one which
greatly puzzled Dr. Jones of Monksmead village, annoyed Miss Smellie, offended Grumper, and
worried Lucille.

Sitting in solitary grandeur at his lunch one Sabbath, sipping his old Chambertin, Grumper
was vexed and scandalized by a series of blood-curdling shrieks from the floor above his breakfast-room.
Butterson, dispatched in haste to see "who the Devil was being killed in that noisy fashion,"
returned to state deferentially as how Master Damocles was in a sort of heppipletic fit, and
foaming at the mouth. They had found him in the General's study where he had been reading a
book, apparently; a big Natural History book.

A groom was galloping for Dr. Jones and Mrs. Pont was doin' her possible.

No. Nothing appeared to have hurt or frightened the young gentleman--but he was distinctly
'eard to shout: "It is under my foot. It is moving--moving--moving out...." before he became
unconscious.

No, Sir. Absolutely nothing under the young gentleman's foot.

Dr. Jones could shed no light and General Sir Gerald Seymour Stukeley hoped to God that the
boy was not going to grow up a wretched epileptic. Miss Smellie appeared to think the seizure
a judgment upon an impudent and deceitful boy who stole into his elders' rooms in their absence
and looked at their books.

Lucille was troubled in soul for, to her, Damocles confessed the ghastly, terrible, damning
truth that he was a Coward. He said that he had hidden the fearful fact for all these years
within his guilty bosom and that now it had emerged and convicted him. He lived in subconscious
terror of the Snake, and in its presence--nay even in that of its counterfeit presentment--he
was a gibbering, lunatic coward. Such, at least, was her dimly realized conception resultant
upon the boy's bald, stammering confession.

But how could her dear Dammy be a coward--the vilest thing on earth! He who was willing to
fight anyone, ride anything, go anywhere, act anyhow. Dammy the boxer, fencer, rider, swimmer.
Absurd! Think of the day "the Cads" had tried to steal their boat from them when they were
sailing it on the pond at Revelmead. There had been five of them, two big and three medium.
Dam had closed the eye of one of them, cut the lip of another, and knocked one of the smaller
three weeping into the dust.

They had soon cleared off and flung stones until Dam had started running for them and then
they had fled altogether.

Think of the time when she set fire to the curtains. Why, he feared no bull, no dog, no tramp
in England.

A coward! Piffle.

And yet he had screamed and kicked and cried--yes cried--as he had shouted that it was under
his foot and moving out. Rum! Very rum!

On the day that Dam left Monksmead for school Lucille wept till she could weep no more. Life
for the next few years was one of intermittent streaks of delirious joy and gloomy grief, vacation
time when he was at Monksmead and term time when he was at school. All the rest of the world
weighed as a grain of dust against her hero, Dam.

CHAPTER VI.

THE SNAKE'S "MYRMIDON".

For a couple of years and more, in the lower School at Wellingborough, Damocles de Warrenne,
like certain States, was happy in that he had no history. In games rather above the average,
and in lessons rather below it, he was very popular among his fellow "squeakers" for his good
temper, modesty, generous disposition, and prowess at football and cricket.

Then, later, dawned the day when from this comfortable high estate a common adder, preserved
in spirits of wine, was the cause of his downfall and Bully Harberth the means of his reinstatement....

One afternoon Mr. Steynker, the Science Master, for some reason and without preliminary mention
of his intent, produced a bottled specimen of a snake. He entered the room with the thing under
his arm and partly concealed by the sleeve of his gown. Watching him as he approached the master's
desk and spoke with Mr. Colfe, the form-master, Dam noted that he had what appeared to be a
long oblong glass box of which the side turned towards him was white and opaque.

When Mr. Steynker stepped on to the dais, as Mr. Colfe took up his books and departed, he placed
the thing on the desk with the other side to the class....

And there before Dam's starting, staring eyes, fastened to the white back of the tall glass
box, and immersed in colourless liquid was the Terror.

He rose, gibbering, to his feet, pale as the dead, and pointed, mopping and mowing like an idiot.

How should a glass box restrain the Fiend that had made his life a Hell upon earth? What did
Steynker and Colfe and these others--all gaping at him open-mouthed--know of the Devil with
whom he had wrestled deep beneath the Pit itself for ten thousand centuries of horror--centuries
whose every moment was an aeon?

What could these innocent men and boys know of the living Damnation that made him pray to die--provided
only that he could be really dead and finished, beyond all consciousness and fear. The fools!...
to think that it was a harmless, concrete thing. It would emerge in a moment like the Fisherman's
Geni from the Brass Bottle and grow as big as the world. He felt he was going mad again.

"Help!" he suddenly shrieked. "It is under my foot. It is moving ... moving ... moving out."
He sprang to his astounded friend, Delorme, and screamed to him for help--and then realizing
that there was no help, that neither man nor God could save him, he fled from the room screaming
like a wounded horse.

Rushing madly down the corridor, falling head-long down the stone stairs, bolting blindly across
the entrance-hall, he fled until (unaware of his portly presence up to the moment when he rebounded
from him as a cricket-ball from a net) he violently encountered the Head.

Scrambling beneath his gown the demented boy flung his arms around the massy pillar of the
Doctor's leg, and prayed aloud to him for help, between heart-rending screams.

Now it is undeniable that no elderly gentleman, of whatsoever position or condition, loves
to be butted violently upon a generous lunch as he makes his placid way to his arm-chair, cigar,
book, and ultimate pleasant doze. If he be pompous by profession, precise by practice, dignified
as a duty, a monument of most stately correctness and, to small boys and common men, a great
and distant, if tiny, God--he may be expected to resent it.

The Doctor did. Almost before he knew what he was doing, he struck the sobbing, gasping child
twice, and then endeavoured to remove him by the ungentle application of the untrammelled foot,
from the leg to which, limpet-like, he clung.

To Dam the blows were welcome, soothing, reassuring. Let a hundred Heads flog him with two
hundred birch-rods, so they could keep him from the Snake. What are mere blows?

Realizing quickly that something very unusual was in the air, the worthy Doctor repented him
of his haste and, with what dignity he might, inquired between a bleat and a bellow:--

"What is the matter, my boy? Hush! Hush!"

"The Snake! The Snake!" shrieked Dam. "Save me! Save me! It is under my foot! It is moving
... moving ... moving out," and clung the tighter.

The good Doctor also moved with alacrity--but saw no snake. He was exceedingly perturbed, between
a hypothetical snake and an all too actual lunatic boy.

Fortunately, "Stout" (so called because he was Porter), passing the big doors without, was
attracted by the screams.

Entering, he hastened to the side of the agitated Head, and, with some difficulty, untied from
that gentleman's leg, a small boy--but not until the small boy had fainted....

When Dam regained consciousness he had a fit, recovered, and found himself in the Head's study,
and the object of the interested regard of the Head, Messrs. Colfe and Steynker, the school
medico, and the porter.

It was agreed (while the boy fought for his sanity, bit his hand for the reassuring pleasure
of physical pain, and prayed for help to the God in whom he had no reason to believe) that
the case was "very unusual, very curious, v-e-r-y interesting indeed". Being healthier and
stronger than at the time of previous attacks, Dam more or less recovered before night and
was not sent home. But he had fallen from his place, and in the little republics of the dormitory
and class-room, he was a thing to shun, an outcast, a disgrace to the noble race of Boy.

Not a mere liar, a common thief, a paltry murderer or vulgar parricide--but a COWARD, a blubberer,
a baby. Even Delorme, more in sorrow than in anger, shunned his erstwhile bosom-pal, and went
about as one betrayed.

The name of "Funky Warren" was considered appropriate, and even the Haddock, his own flesh
and blood, and most junior of "squeakers," dared to apply it!....

The infamy of the Coward spread abroad, was talked of in other Houses, and fellows made special
excursions to see the cry-baby, who funked a dead snake, a blooming bottled, potted, dead snake,
and who had blubbed aloud in his terror.

And Bully Harberth of the Fifth, learning of these matters, revolved in his breast the thought
that he who fears dead serpents must, even more, fear living bullies, put Dam upon his list
as a safe and pliant client, and thereby (strange instrument of grace!) gave him the chance
to rehabilitate himself, clear the cloud of infamy from about his head, and live a bearable
life for the rest of his school career....

One wet Wednesday afternoon, as Dam, a wretched, forlorn Ishmael, sat alone in a noisy crowd,
reading a "penny horrible" (admirable, stimulating books crammed with brave deeds and noble
sentiments if not with faultless English) the Haddock entered the form-room, followed by Bully
Harberth.

"That's him, Harberth, by the window, reading a penny blood," said the Haddock, and went and
stood afar off to see the fun.

Harberth, a big clumsy boy, a little inclined to fat, with small eyes, heavy low forehead,
thick lips, and amorphous nose, lurched over to where Dam endeavoured to read himself into
a better and brighter world inhabited by Deadwood Dick, Texas Joe, and Red Indians of no manners
and nasty customs.

"I want you, Funky Warren. I'm going to torture you," he announced with a truculent scowl and
a suggestive licking of blubber lips.

Dam surveyed him coolly.

Of thick build, the bully was of thicker wit and certainly of no proven courage. Four years
older than Dam and quite four inches taller, he had never dreamed of molesting him before.
Innumerable as were the stories of his brutalities to the smallest "squeakers" and of his cruel
practical jokes on new boys, there were no stories of his fighting, such as there were about
Ormond Delorme, of Dam's form, whose habit it was to implore bigger boys of their courtesy
to fight him, and to trail his coat where there were "chaws" about.

"I'm going to torture you, Funky. Every day you must come to me and beg me to do it. If you
don't come and pray for it I'll come to you and you'll get it double and treble. If you sneak
you'll get it quadru--er--quadrupedal--and also be known as Sneaky as well as Funky. See?"
he continued.

"How will you torture me, Harberth, please?" asked Dam meekly, as he measured the other with
his eye, noted his puffiness, short reach, and inward tendency of knee.

"Oh! lots of ways," was the reply. "Dry shaves, tweaks, scalpers, twisters, choko, tappers,
digs, benders, shinners, windos, all sorts."

"I don't even know what they are," moaned Dam.

"Poor Kid!" sympathized the bully, "you soon will, though. Dry shaves are beautiful. You die
dotty in about five minutes if I don't see fit to stop. Twisters break your wrists and you
yell the roof off--or would do if I didn't gag you first with a cake of soap and a towel. Tappers
are very amusing, too, for me that is--not for you. They are done on the side of your knee
with a cricket stump. Wonderful how kids howl when you understand knee-treatment. Choko is
good too. Makes you black in the face and your eyes goggle out awful funny. Done with a silk
handkerchief and a stick. Windos and benders go together and really want two fellows to do
it properly. I hit you in the wind and you double up, and the other fellow un-doubles you from
behind--with a cane--so that I can double you up again. Laugh! I nearly died over young Berners.
Shinners, scalpers, and tweaks are good too--jolly good!... but of course all this comes after
lamming and tunding.... Come along with me...."

"Nit," was Dam's firm but gentle reply, and a little pulse began to beat beneath his cheek bone.

"Oh! Ho!" smiled Master Harberth, "then I'll begin here, and when you're broke and blubbing
you'll come with me--and get just double for a start."

Dam's spirits rose and he felt almost happy--certainly far better than he had done since the
hapless encounter with the bottled adder and his fall from grace. It was a positive, joy to
have an enemy he could tackle, a real flesh-and-blood foe and tormentor that came upon him
in broad daylight and in mere human form.

After countless thousands of centuries of awful nightmare struggling--in which he was bound
hand-and-foot and doomed to failure and torture from the outset, the sport, plaything, and
victim of a fearful, intangible Horror--this would be sheer amusement and recreation. What
could mere man do to him, much less mere boy! Why, the most awful torture-chamber of the Holy
Inquisition of old was a pleasant recreation-room compared with any place where the Snake could
enter.

Oh, if the Snake could only be met and fought in the open with free hands and untrammelled
limbs, as Bully Harberth could!

Oh, if it could only inflict mere physical pain instead of such agonies of terror as made the
idea of any bodily injury--mere cutting, burning, beating, blinding--a trifling nothing-at-all.
Anyhow, he could imagine that Bully Harberth was the Snake or Its emissary and, since he was
indirectly brought upon him by the Snake, regard him as a myrmidon--and deal with him accordingly....

"How do you like this?" inquired that young gentleman as he suddenly seized the seated and
unsuspecting Dam by the head, crushed him down with his superior weight and dug cruelly into
the sides of his neck, below the ears, with his powerful thumb and fingers. "It is called 'grippers'.
You'll begin to enjoy it in a minute." ... In a few seconds the pain became acute and after
a couple of minutes, excruciating.

Dam kept absolutely still and perfectly silent.

To Harberth this was disappointing and after a time he grew tired. Releasing his impassive
victim he arose preparatory to introducing the next item of his programme of tortures.

"How do you like this?" inquired Dam rising also--and he smote his tormentor with all his strength
beneath the point of his chin. Rage, pain, rebellion, and undying hatred (of the Snake) lent
such force to the skilful blow--behind which was the weight and upward spring of his body--that
Bully Harberth went down like a nine-pin, his big head striking the sharp edge of a desk with
great violence.

He lay still and white with closed eyes. "Golly," shrilled the Haddock, "Funky Warren has murdered
Bully Harberth. Hooray! Hooray!" and he capered with joy.

A small crowd quickly collected, and, it being learned from credible eye-witnesses that the
smaller boy had neither stabbed the bully in the back nor clubbed him from behind, but had
well and truly smitten him on the jaw with his fist, he went at one bound from despised outcast
coward to belauded, admired hero.

"You'll be hung, of course, Warren," said Delorme.

"And a jolly good job," replied Dam, fervently and sincerely.

As he spoke, Harberth twitched, moved his arms and legs, and opened his eyes.

Sitting up, he blinked owl-like and inquired as to what was up.

"You are down is what's up," replied Delorme.

"Oh--he's not dead," squeaked the Haddock, and there was a piteous break in his voice.

"What's up?" asked Harberth again.

"Why, Funky--that is to say, Warren--knocked you out, and you've got to give him best and ask
for pax, or else fight him," said Delorme, adding hopefully, "but of course you'll fight him."

Harberth arose and walked to the nearest seat.

"He hit me a 'coward's poke' when I wasn't looking," quoth he. "It's well known he is a coward."

"You are a liar, Bully Harberth," observed Delorme. "He hit you fair, and anyhow he's not afraid
of you. If you don't fight him you become Funky Harberth vice. Funky Warren--no longer Funky.
So you'd better fight. See?" The Harberth bubble was evidently pricked, for the sentiment was
applauded to the echo.

"I don't fight cowards," mumbled Harberth, holding his jaw--and, at this meanness, Dam was
moved to go up to Harberth and slap him right hard upon his plump, inviting cheek, a good resounding
blow that made his hand tingle with pain and his heart with pleasure.

He still identified him somehow with the Snake, and had a glorious, if passing, sensation of
successful revolt and some revenge.

He felt as the lashed galley-slave must have felt when, during a lower-deck mutiny, he broke
from his oar and sprang at the throat of the cruel overseer, the embodiment and source of the
agony, starvation, toil, brutality, and hopeless woe that had thrust him below the level of
the beasts (fortunate beasts) that perish.

"Now you've got to fight him, of course," said Delorme, and fled to spread the glad tidings
far and wide.

"I--I--don't feel well now," mumbled Harberth. "I'll fight him when I'm better," and shambled
away, outraged, puzzled, disgusted. What was the world coming to? The little brute! He had
a punch like the kick of a horse. The little cad--to dare! Well, he'd show him something if
he had the face to stand up to his betters and olders and biggers in the ring....

News of the affair spread like wild-fire, and the incredible conduct of the extraordinary Funky
Warren--said to be no longer Funky--became the topic of the hour.

At tea, Dam was solemnly asked if it were true that he had cast Harberth from a lofty window
and brought him to death's door, or that of the hospital; whether he had strangled him with
the result that he had a permanent squint; if he had so kicked him as to break both his thigh
bones; if he had offered to fight him with one hand.

Even certain more or less grave and reverend seniors of the upper school took a well-disguised
interest in the matter and pretended that the affair should be allowed to go on, as it would
do Harberth a lot of good if de Warrenne could lick him, and do the latter a lot of good to
reinstate himself by showing that he was not really a coward in essentials. Of course they
took no interest in the fight as a fight. Certainly not (but it was observed that Flaherty
of the Sixth stopped the fight most angrily and peremptorily when it was over, and that no
sign of anger or peremptoriness escaped him until it was over--and he happened to pass behind
the gymnasium, curiously enough, just as it started)....

Good advice was showered upon Dam from all sides. He was counselled to live on meat, to be
a vegetarian, to rise at 4 a.m. and swim, to avoid all brain-fag, to run twenty miles a day,
to rest until the fight, to get up in the night and swing heavy dumb-bells, to eat no pudding,
to drink no tea, to give up sugar, avoid ices, and deny himself all "tuck" and everything else
that makes life worth living.

He did none of these things--but simply went on as usual, save in one respect.

For the first time since the adder episode, he was really happy. Why, he did not know, save
that he was about to "get some of his own back," to strike a blow against the cruel coward
Incubus (for he persisted in identifying Harberth with the Snake and in regarding him as a
materialization of the life-long Enemy), and possibly to enjoy a brief triumph over what had
so long triumphed over him.

If he were at this time a little mad the wonder is that he was still on the right side of the
Lunatic Asylum gates.

Mad or not, he was happy--and the one thing wanting was the presence of Lucille at the fight.
How he would have loved to show her that he was not really a coward--given a fair chance and
a tangible foe.

If only Lucille could be there--dancing from one foot to the other, and squealing. (Strictly
between, and not during, the rounds, of course.)

"Buck up, Dammy! Ginger for pluck! Never say croak!"

A very large and very informal committee took charge of the business of the fight, and what
was alluded to as "a friendly boxing contest between Bully Harberth of the Fifth and de Warrenne--late
Funky--" was arranged for the following Saturday afternoon. On being asked by a delegate of
the said large and informal committee as to whether he would be trained by then or whether
he would prefer a more distant date, Dam replied that he would be glad to fight Harberth that
very moment--and thus gained the reputation of a fierce and determined fellow (though erstwhile
"funky"--the queer creature).

Those who had been loudest in dubbing him Funky Warrenne were quickest in finding explanations
of his curious conduct and explained it well away.

It was at this time that Dam's heart went wholly and finally out to Ormonde Delorme who roundly
stated that his father, a bemedalled heroic Colonel of Gurkhas, was "in a blind perishing funk"
during a thunderstorm and always sought shelter in the wine cellar when one was in progress
in his vicinity.

Darn presented Delorme with his knife and a tiger's tooth forthwith. Saturday came and Dam
almost regretted its advent, for, though a child in years, he was sufficiently old, weary,
and cynical in spirit to know that all life's fruit contains dust and ashes, that the joys
of anticipation exceed those of realization, and that with possession dies desire.

With the fight would end the glorious feeling of successful revolt, and if he overcame one
emissary of the Snake there would be a million more to take his place.

And if Providence should be, as usual, on the side of the "big battalions," and the older,
taller, stronger, heavier boy should win? Why--then he would bully the loser to his heart's
content and the limit of his ingenuity.

Good! Let him! He would fight him every day with the greatest pleasure. A chance to fight the
Snake on fair terms was all he asked....

Time and place had been well chosen and there was little likelihood of interference.

Some experienced youth, probably Cokeson himself, had made arrangements as to seconds, time-keeper,
judges, and referee; and, though there was no ring of ropes and stakes, a twenty-four-foot
square had been marked out and inclosed by forms and benches. Seating was provided for the
"officials" and seniors, and two stools for the principals. A couple of bowls of water, sponges,
and towels lent a business-like air to the scene.

To his delight, Dam discovered that Delorme was to be his second--a person of sound advice,
useful ministrations, and very present help in time of trouble....

Delorme led him to his stool in an angle of the square of benches, bade him spread wide his
arms and legs and breathe deeply "for all he was worth, with his eyes closed and his thoughts
fixed on jolly things".

Feeling himself the cynosure of neighbouring eyes and able to hear the comments of the crowd,
the last part of his second's instructions was a little difficult of strict observation. However,
he continued to think of licking Harberth--the "jolliest" thing he could conceive, until his
mind wandered home to Lucille, and he enhanced the imaginary jollity by conceiving her present....
"Sturdy little brute," observed a big Fifth Form boy seated with a couple of friends on the
bench beside him, "but I'd lay two to one in sovs. (if I had 'em) that he doesn't last a single
round with Harberth".

"Disgrace to Harberth if he doesn't eat the kid alive," responded the other.

"Got a good jaw and mouth, though," said the third. "Going to die hard, you'll see. Good little
kid."

"Fancy funking a bottled frog or something and fighting a chap who can give him about four
years, four inches, and four stone," observed the first speaker.

"Yes. Queer little beast. He knocked Harberth clean out, they say. Perhaps his father has had
him properly taught and he can really box. Ever seen him play footer? Nippiest little devil
I ever saw. Staunch too. Rum go," commented his friend.

Dam thought of Sergeant Havlan and his son, the punching-ball, and the fighting days at Monksmead.
Perhaps he could "really" box, after all. Anyhow he knew enough to hit straight and put his
weight into it, to guard chin and mark, to use his feet, duck, dodge, and side step. Suppose
Harberth knew as much? Well--since he was far stronger, taller, and heavier, the only hope
of success lay in the fact that he was connected with the Snake--from whom mere blows in the
open would be welcome.

Anyhow he would die or win.

The positive joy of fighting It in the glorious day and open air, instead of in the Bottomless
Pit--bound, stifled, mad with Fear--none could realize....

Bully Harberth entered the ring accompanied by Shanner, who looked like a Sixth Form boy and
was in the Shell.

Harberth wore a thick sweater and looked very strong and heavy.

"If the little kid lasts three rounds with that" observed Cokeson to Coxe Major, "he ought
to be chaired."

Dam was disposed to agree with him in his heart, but he had no fear. The feeling that his brief
innings had come--after the Snake had had Its will of him for a dozen years--swallowed up all
other feelings.

Coxe Major stepped into the ring. "I announce a friendly boxing contest between Harberth of
the Fifth, nine stone seven, and Funky Warren (said to be no longer Funky) of Barton's House,
weight not worth mentioning," he declaimed.

"Are the gloves all right," called Cokeson (whose father owned racehorses, was a pillar of
the National Sporting Club, and deeply interested in the welfare of a certain sporting newspaper).

"No fault can be found with Warren's gloves," said Shanner, coming over to Dam.

"There's nothing wrong with the gloves here," added Delorme, after visiting Harberth's corner.

This was the less remarkable in that there were no gloves whatsoever.

Presumably the fiction of a "friendly boxing contest" was to be stoutly maintained. The crowd
of delighted boys laughed.

"Then come here, both of you," said Cokeson.

The combatants complied.

"Don't hold and hit. Don't butt nor trip. Don't clinch. Don't use knee, elbow, nor shoulder.
When I call 'Break away,' break without hitting. If you do any of these things you will be
jolly well disqualified. Fight fair and God have mercy on your souls." To Dam it seemed that
the advice was superfluous--and of God's mercy on his soul he had had experience.

Returning to their corners, the two stripped to the waist and sat ready, arrayed in shorts
and gymnasium shoes.

Seen thus, they looked most unevenly matched, Harberth looking still bigger for undressing
and Dam even smaller. But, as the knowing Coxe Major observed, what there was of Dam was in
the right place--and was muscle. Certainly he was finely made.

"Seconds out of the ring. Time!" called the time-keeper and Dam sprang to his feet and ran
at Harberth who swung a mighty round-arm blow at his face as Dam ducked and smote him hard
and true just below the breast-bone and fairly on the "mark ".

The bully's grunt of anguish was drowned in howls of "Shake hands!" "They haven't shaken hands!"

"Stop! Stop the fight," shouted Cokeson, and as they backed from each other he inquired with
anger and reproach in his voice:--

"Is this a friendly boxing-contest or a vulgar fight?" adding, "Get to your corners and when
Time is called, shake hands and then begin."

Turning to the audience he continued in a lordly and injured manner: "And there is only one
Referee, gentlemen, please. Keep silence or I shall stop the fight--I mean--the friendly boxing
contest."

As Dam sat down Delorme whispered:--

"Splendid! Infighting is your tip. Duck and go for the body every time. He knows nothing of
boxing I should say. Tire him--and remember that if he gets you with a swing like that you're out."

"Seconds out of the ring. Time!" called the time-keeper and Dam walked towards Harberth with
outstretched hand, met him in the middle of the ring and shook hands with great repugnance.
As Harberth's hand left Dam's it rose swiftly to Dam's face and knocked him down.

"Shame! Foul poke! Coward," were some of the indignant cries that arose from the spectators.

"Silence," roared the referee. "Will you shut up and be quiet. Perfectly legitimate--if not
very sporting."

Dam sprang to his feet, absolutely unhurt, and, if possible, more determined than ever. It
was only because he had been standing with feet together that he had been knocked down at all.
Had he been given time to get into sparring position the blow would not have moved him. Nor
was Harberth himself in an attitude to put much weight behind the blow and it was more a cuff
than a punch.

Circling round his enemy, Dam sparred for an opening and watched his style and methods.

Evidently the bully expected to make short work of him, and he carried his right fist as though
it were a weapon and not a part of his body.

As he advanced with his right extended, quivering, menacing, and poised for a knock-out blow,
his left did not appear in the matter at all.

Suddenly he aimed his fist at Dam like a stone and with great force. Dam side-stepped and it
brushed his ear; with his right he smote with all his force upon Harberth's ribs and with his
left he drove at his eye as he came up. Both blows were well and truly laid and with good sounding
thuds that seemed to delight the audience.

Bully Harberth changed his tactics and advanced upon his elusive opponent with his left in
the position of guard and his right drawn back to the arm-pit. Evidently he was going to hold
him off with the one and smash him with the other. Not waiting for him to develop his attack,
but striking the bully's left arm down with his own left, Dam hit over it with his right and
reached his nose and--so curious are the workings of the human mind--thought of Moses striking
the rock and bringing forth water.

The sight of blood seemed to distress Harberth and, leaping in as the latter drew his hand
across his mouth, Dam drove with all his strength at his mark and with such success that Harberth
doubled up and fetched his breath with deep groans. Dam stood clear and waited.

Delorme called out, "You've a right to finish him," and was sternly reproved by the referee.

As Harberth straightened up, Dam stepped towards him, but the bully turned and ran to his stool.
As he reached it amid roars of execration the time-keeper arose and cried "Time!"

"You had him, you little ass," said Delorme, as he squeezed a sponge of water on Dam's head.
"Why on earth didn't you go in and finish him?"

"It didn't seem decent when he was doubled up," replied Dam.

"Did it seem decent his hitting you while you shook hands?" returned the other, beginning to
fan his principal with a towel.

"Anyhow he's yours if you go on like this. Keep your head and don't worry about his. Stick
to his body till you have a clear chance at the point of his jaw."

"Seconds out of the ring. Time!" cried the time-keeper.

This round was less fortunate for the smaller boy. Harberth's second had apparently given him
some good advice, for he kept his mark covered and used his left both to guard and to hit.

Also he had learned something from Dam, and, on one occasion as the latter went at his face
with a straight left, he dropped the top of his head towards him and made a fierce hooking
punch at Dam's body. Luckily it was a little high, but it winded him for a moment, and had
his opponent rushed him then, Dam could have done nothing at all.

Just as "Time" was called, Harberth swung a great round-arm blow at Dam which would have knocked
him head over heels had not he let his knees go just in time and ducked under it, hitting his
foe once again on the mark with all his strength.

"How d'you feel?" asked Delorme as Dam went to his stool.

"Happy," said he.

"Don't talk piffle," was the reply. "How do you feel? Wind all right? Groggy at all?"

"Not a bit," said Dam. "I am enjoying it."

And so he was. Hitherto the Snake had had him bound and helpless. As it pursued him in nightmares,
his knees had turned to water, great chains had bound his arms, devilish gags had throttled
him, he could not breathe, and he had not had a chance to escape nor to fight. He could not
even scream for help. He could only cling to a shelf. Now he had a chance. His limbs were free,
his eyes were open, he could breathe, think, act, defend himself and attack.

"Seconds out of the ring. Time!" called the time-keeper and Delorme ceased fanning with the
towel, splashed a spongeful of water in Dam's face and backed away with his stool.

Harberth seemed determined to make an end.

He rushed at his opponent whirling his arms, breathing stertorously, and scowling savagely.

Guarding hurt Dam's arms, he had no time to hit, and in ducking he was slow and got a blow
(aimed at his chin) in the middle of his forehead. Down he went like a nine-pin, but was up
as quickly, and ready for Harberth who had rushed at him in the act of rising, while the referee
shouted "Stand clear".

As he came on, Dam fell on one knee and drove at his mark again.

Harberth grunted and placed his hands on the smitten spot.

Judging time and distance well, Dam hit with all his force at the bully's chin and he went
down like a log.

Rising majestically, the time-keeper lifted up his voice and counted: "One--two--three--four--five--six"--and
Harberth opened his eyes, sat up, "seven--eight--nine"--and lay down again; and just as Dam
was about to leap for joy and the audience to roar their approval--instead of the fatal "OUT"
the time-keeper called "Time".

Had Dam struck the blow a second sooner, the fight would have been over and he would have won.
As it was, Harberth had the whole interval in which to recover. Dam's own luck! (But Miss Smellie
had always said there is no such thing as Luck!) Well--so much the better. Fighting the Snake
was the real joy, and victory would end it. So would defeat and he must not get cock-a-hoop
and careless.

Delorme filled his mouth with water and ejected it in a fine spray over Dam's head and chest.
He was very proud of this feat, but, though most refreshing, Dam could have preferred that
the water had come from a sprayer.

"Seconds out of the ring, Time!" called the referee.

Harberth appeared quite recovered, but he was of a curious colour and seemed tired.

Acting on his second's advice, Dam gave his whole attention to getting at his opponent's body
again, and overdid it. As Harberth struck at him with his left, he ducked, and as he was aiming
at Harberth's mark, he was suddenly knocked from day into night, from light into darkness,
from life into death....

Years passed and Dam strove to explain that the mainspring had broken and that he had heard
it click--when suddenly a great black drop-curtain rolled up, while some one snapped back some
slides that had covered his ears, and had completely deafened him.

Then he saw Harberth and heard the voice of the time-keeper saying: "five--six--seven".

He scrambled to his knees, "eight" swayed and staggered to his feet, collapsed, rose, "nine"
and was knocked down by Harberth.

The time-keeper again stood up and counted, "One--two--three". But this blow actually helped him.

He lay collecting his strength and wits, breathing deeply and taking nine seconds' rest.

On the word "nine" he sprang to his feet and as Harberth rushed in, side-stepped, and, as that
youth instinctively covered his much-smitten "mark," Dam drove at his chin and sent him staggering.
As he went after him he saw that Harberth was breathing hard, trembling, and swaying on his
feet. Springing in, he rained short-arm blows until Harberth fell and then he stepped well back.

Harberth sat shaking his head, looking piteous, and, in the middle of the time-keeper's counting,
he arose remarking, "I've had enough"--and walked to his chair.

Bully Harberth was beaten--and Dam felt that the Snake was farther from him than ever it had
been since he could remember.

"De Warrenne wins," said Cokeson, and then Flaherty of the Sixth stepped into the ring and
stopped the fight with much show of wrath and indignation.

Dam was wildly cheered and chaired and thence-forth was as popular and as admired as he had
been shunned and despised.

Nor did he have another Snake seizure by day (though countless terrible nightmares in what
must be called his sleep) till some time after he had left school.

When he did, it had a most momentous influence upon his career.

She is mine! She is mine! By her soul divine By her heart's pure guile By her lips' sweet smile
She is mine! She is mine.

Encapture? Aye In dreams as fair As angel whispers, low and rare, In thoughts as pure As childhood's
innocent allure In hopes as bright In deeds as white As altar lilies, bathed in light.

She is mine! She is mine! By seal as true To spirit view As holy scripture writ in dew, By
bond as fair To vision rare As holy scripture writ in air, By writ as wise to spirit eyes As
holy scripture in God's skies v She is mine! She is mine!

Elude me? Nay, Ere earth reclaimed In joy unveils a Heaven regained, Ere sea unbound, Unfretting,
rolls in mist--nor sound, Ere sun and star repentent crash In scattered ash, across the bar
She is mine I She is mine!

A. L. WREN.

CHAPTER VII.

LOVE--AND THE SNAKE.

Damocles de Warrenne, gentleman-cadet, on the eve of returning from Monksmead to the Military
Academy of Sandhurst, appeared to have something on his mind as he sat on the broad coping
of the terrace balustrade and idly kicked his heels. Every time he had returned to Monksmead
from Wellingborough and Sandhurst, he had found Lucille yet more charming, delightful, and
lovable. As her skirts and hair lengthened she became more and more the real companion, the
pal, the adviser, without becoming any less the sportsman.

He had always loved her quaint terms of endearment, slang, and epithets, but as she grew into
a beautiful and refined and dignified girl, it was still more piquant to be addressed in the
highly unladylike (or un-Smelliean) terms that she affected.

Dam never quite knew when she began to make his heart beat quicker, and when her presence began
to act upon him as sunshine and her absence as dull cloud; but there came a time when (whether
she were riding to hounds in her neat habit, rowing with him in sweater and white skirt, swinging
along the lanes in thick boots and tailor-made costume, sitting at the piano after dinner in
simple white dinner-gown, or waltzing at some ball--always the belle thereof for him) he did
know that Lucille was more to him than a jolly pal, a sound adviser, an audience, a confidant,
and ally. Perhaps the day she put her hair up marked an epoch in the tale of his affections.
He found that he began to hate to see other fellows dancing, skating, or playing golf or tennis
with her. He did not like to see men speaking to her at meets or taking her in to dinner. He
wanted the blood of a certain neighbouring spring-Captain, a hunter of "flappers" and molester
of parlour-maids, home on furlough, who made eyes at her at the Hunt Ball and followed her
about all Cricket Week and said something to her which, as Dam heard, provoked her coolly to
request him "not to be such a priceless ass". What it was she would not tell Dam, and he, magnifying
it, called, like the silly raw boy he was, upon the spring-Captain, and gently requested him
to "let my cousin alone, Sir, if you don't mind, or--er--I'll jolly well make you". Dam knew
things about the gentleman, and considered him wholly unfit to come within a mile of Lucille.
The spring-Captain was obviously much amused and inwardly much annoyed--but he ceased his scarce-begun
pursuit of the hoydenish-queenly girl, for Damocles de Warrenne had a reputation for the cool
prosecution of his undertakings and the complete fulfilment of his promises. Likewise he had
a reputation for Herculean strength and uncanny skill. Yet the gay Captain had been strongly
attracted by the beauty and grace of the unspoilt, unsophisticated, budding woman, with her
sweet freshness and dignity (so quaintly enhanced by lapses into the slangy, unfettered schoolgirl
...). Not that he was a marrying man at all, of course.... Yes--Dam had it weightily on his
mind that he might come down from Sandhurst at any time and find Lucille engaged to some other
fellow. Girls did get engaged.... It was the natural and obvious thing for them to do. She'd
get engaged to some brainy clever chap worth a dozen of his own mediocre self.... Of course
she liked him dearly as a pal and all that, an ancient crony and chum--but how should he hope
to compete with the brilliant fellers she'd meet as she went about more, and knew them. She
was going to have a season in London next year. Think of the kind of chaps she'd run across
in Town in the season. Intellectual birds, artists, poets, authors, travellers, distinguished
coves, rising statesmen, under-secretaries, soldiers, swells, all sorts. Not much show for
him against that lot!

Gad! What a rotten look-out! What a rotten world to be sure! Fancy losing Lucille!... Should
he put his fortunes to the touch, risk all, and propose to her. Fellows did these things in
such circumstances.... No--hardly fair to try to catch her like that before she had had at
least one season, and knew what was what and who was who.... Hardly the clean potato--to take
advantage of their long intimacy and try to trap her while she was a country mouse.

It was not as though he were clever and could hope for a great career and the power to offer
her the position for which she was fitted. Why, he was nearly bottom of his year at Sandhurst--not
a bit brilliant and brainy. Suppose she married him in her inexperience, and then met the right
sort of intellectual, clever feller too late. No, it wouldn't be the straight thing and decent
at all, to propose to her now. How would Grumper view such a step? What had he to offer her?
What was he? Just a penniless orphan. Apart from Grumper's generosity he owned a single five-pound
note in money. Never won a scholarship or exam-prize in his life. Mere Public Schools boxing
and fencing champion, and best man-at-arms at Sandhurst, with a score or so of pots for running,
jumping, sculling, swimming, shooting, boxing, fencing, steeple-chasing and so forth. His total
patrimony encashed would barely pay for his Army outfit. But for Grumper's kindness he couldn't
go into the Army at all. And Grumper, the splendid old chap, couldn't last very much longer.
Why--for many a long year he would not earn more than enough to pay his mess-bills and feed
his horses. Not in England certainly.... Was he to ask Lucille to leave her luxurious home
in a splendid mansion and live in a subaltern's four-roomed hut in the plains in India? (Even
if he could scrape into the Indian army so as to live on his pay--more or less.) Grumper, her
guardian, and executor of the late Bishop's will, might have very different views for her.
Why, she might even be his heiress--he was very fond of her, the daughter of his lifelong friend
and kinsman. Fancy a pauper making up to a very rich girl--if it came to her being that, which
he devoutly hoped it would not. It would remove her so hopelessly beyond his reach. By the
time he could make a position, and an income visible to the naked eye, he would be grey-haired.
Money was not made in the army. Rather was it becoming no place for a poor gentleman but the
paradise of rich bounders, brainy little squits of swotters, and commission-without-training
nondescripts--thanks to the growing insecurity of things among the army class and gentry generally.
If she were really penniless he might--as a Captain--ask her to share his poverty--but was
it likely shed be a spinster ten years hence--even if he were a Captain so soon? Promotion
is not violently rapid in the Cavalry.... And yet he simply hated the bare thought of life
without Lucille. Better to be a gardener at Monksmead, and see her every day, than be the Colonel
of a Cavalry Corps and know her to be married to somebody else.... Yes--he would come home
one of these times from Sandburst or his Regiment and find her engaged to some other fellow.
And what then? Well--nothing--only life would be of no further interest. It was bound to happen.
Everybody turned to look at her. Even women gave generous praise of her beauty, grace, and
sweetness. Men raved about her, and every male creature who came near her was obviously dpris
in five minutes. The curate, plump "Holy Bill," was well known to be fading away, slowly and
beautifully, but quite surely, on her account. Grumper's old pal, General Harringport, had
confided to Dam himself in the smoking-room, one very late night, that since he was fifty years
too old for hope of success in that direction he'd go solitary to his lonely grave (here a
very wee hiccup), damn his eyes, so he would, unwed, unloved, uneverything. Very trag(h)ic,
but such was life, the General had declared, the one alleviation being the fact that he might
die any night now, and ought to have done so a decade ago.

Why, even the little useless snob and tuft-hunter, the Haddock, that tailor's dummy and parody
of a man, cast sheep's eyes and made what he called "love" to her when down from Oxford (and
was duly snubbed for it and for his wretched fopperies, snobberies, and folly). He'd have to
put the Haddock across his knee one of these days.

Then there was his old school pal and Sandhurst senior, Ormonde Delorme, who frequently stayed
at, and had just left, Monksmead --fairly dotty about her. She certainly liked Delorme--and
no wonder, so handsome, clever, accomplished, and so fine a gentleman. Rich, too. Better Ormonde
than another--but, God! what pain even to think of it.... Why had he cleared off so suddenly,
by the way, and obviously in trouble, though he would not admit it?...

Lucille emerged from a French window and came swinging across the terrace. The young man, his
face aglow, radiant, rose to meet her. It was a fine face--with that look on it. Ordinarily
it was somewhat marred by a slightly cynical grimness of the mouth and a hint of trouble in
the eyes--a face a little too old for its age.

"Have a game at tennis before tea, young Piggy-wig?" asked Lucille as she linked her arm in his.

"No, young Piggy-wee," replied Dam. "Gettin' old an' fat. Joints stiffenin'. Come an' sit down
and hear the words of wisdom of your old Uncle Dammiculs, the Wise Man of Monksmead."

"Come off it, Dammy. Lazy little beast. Fat little brute," commented the lady.

As Damocles de Warrenne was six feet two inches high, and twelve stone of iron-hard muscle,
the insults fell but lightly upon him.

"I will, though," she continued. "I shan't have the opportunity of hearing many more of your
words of wisdom for a time, as you go back on Monday. And you'll be the panting prey of a gang
of giggling girls at the garden party and dance to-morrow.... Why on earth must we muck up
your last week-day with rotten 'functions'. You don't want to dance and you don't want to garden-part
in the least."

"Nit," interrupted Dam.

" ... Grumper means it most kindly but ... we want you to ourselves the last day or two ...
anyhow...."

"D'you want me to yourself, Piggy-wee?" asked Dam, trying to speak lightly and off-handedly.

"Of course I do, you Ass. Shan't see you for centuries and months. Nothing to do but weep salt
tears till Christmas. Go into a decline or a red nose very likely. Mind you write to me twice
a week at the very least," replied Lucille, and added:--

"Bet you that silly cat Amelia Harringport is in your pocket all to-morrow afternoon and evening.
All the Harringport crowd are coming from Folkestone, you know. If you run the clock-golf she'll
adore clock-golf, and if you play tennis she'll adore tennis.... Can't think what she sees
in you...."

"Don't be cattish, Lusilly," urged the young man. "'Melier's all right. It's you she comes
to see, of course."

To which, it is regrettable to have to relate, Lucille replied "Rodents".

Talk languished between the young people. Both seemed unwontedly ill at ease and nervous.

"D'you get long between leaving Sandhurst and joining the Corps you're going to distinguish,
Dammy?" asked the girl after an uneasy and pregnant silence, during which they had furtively
watched each other, and smiled a little uncomfortably and consciously when they had caught
each other doing so.

"Dunno. Sure not to. It's a rotten world," replied Dam gloomily. "I expect I shall come back
and find you--"

"Of course you'll come back and find me! What do you mean, Dam?" said the girl. She flushed
curiously as she interrupted him. Before he could reply she continued:--

"You won't be likely to have to go abroad directly you join your Regiment, will you?"

"I shall try for the Indian Army or else for a British Regiment in India," was the somewhat
sullen answer.

"Dam! What ever for?"

"More money and less expenses."

"Dam! You mercenary little toad! You grasping, greedy hog!... Why! I thought...."

Lucille gazed straight and searchingly at her life-long friend for a full minute and then rose
to her feet.

"Come to tea," she said quietly, and led the way to the big lawn where, beneath an ancient
cedar of Lebanon, the pompous Butterton and his solemn satellite were setting forth the tea
"things".

Aunt Yvette presided at the tea-table and talked bravely to two woolly-witted dames from the
Vicarage who had called to consult her anent the covering of a foot-stool "that had belonged
to their dear Grandmamma".

("'Time somebody shot it," murmured Dam to Lucille as he handed her cup.)

Anon Grumper bore down upon the shady spot; queer old Grumper, very stiff, red-faced, dapper,
and extremely savage.

Having greeted the guests hospitably and kindly he confined his subsequent conversation to
two grunts and a growl.

Lucille and Damocles could not be said to have left the cane-chaired group about the rustic
tables and cake-stands at any given moment. Independently they evaporated, after the manner
of the Cheshire Cat it would appear, really getting farther and farther from the circle by
such infinitely small degrees and imperceptible distances as would have appealed to the moral
author of "Little by Little". At length the intervening shrubbery seemed to indicate that they
were scarcely in the intimate bosom of the tea-party, if they had never really left it.

"Come for a long walk, Liggy," remarked Dam as they met, using an ancient pet-name.

"Right-O, my son," was the reply. "But we must start off mildly. I have a lovely feeling of
too much cake. Too good to waste. Wait here while I put on my clod-hoppers."

The next hour was the Hour of the lives of Damocles de Warrenne and Lucille Gavestone--the
great, glorious, and wonderful hour that comes but once in a lifetime and is the progenitor
of countless happy hours--or hours of poignant pain. The Hour that can come only to those who
are worthy of it, and which, whatever may follow, is an unspeakably precious blessing, confuting
the cynic, shaming the pessimist, confounding the atheist, rewarding the pure in heart, revealing
God to Man.

Heaven help the poor souls to whom that Hour never comes, with its memories that nothing can
wholly destroy, its brightness that nothing can ever wholly darken. Heaven especially help
the poor purblind soul that can sneer at it, the greatest and noblest of mankind's gifts, the
countervail of all his cruel woes and curses.

As they walked down the long sweep of the elm-avenue, the pair encountered the vicar coming
to gather up his wife and sister for the evening drive, and the sight of the two fine young
people gladdened the good man's heart. He beheld a tall, broad-shouldered, narrow-hipped young
man, with a frank handsome face, steady blue eyes, fair hair and determined jaw, a picture
of the clean-bred, clean-living, out-door Englishman, athletic, healthy-minded, straight-dealing;
and a slender, beautiful girl, with a strong sweet face, hazel-eyed, brown-haired, upright
and active of carriage, redolent of sanity, directness, and all moral and physical health.

"A well-matched pair," he smiled to himself as they passed him with a cheery greeting.

For a mile or two both thought much and spoke little, the man thinking of the brilliant, hated
Unknown who would steal away his Lucille; the woman thinking of the coming separation from
the friend, without whom life was very empty, dull, and poor. Crossing a field, they reached
a fence and a beautiful view of half the county. Stopping by mutual consent, they gazed at
the peaceful, familiar scene, so ennobled and etherealized by the moon's soft radiance.

"I shall think of this walk, somehow, whenever I see the full moon," said Dam, breaking a long
silence.

"And I," replied Lucille.

"I hate going away this time, somehow, more than usual," he blurted out after another spell
of silence. "I can't help wondering whether you'll be--the same--when I come back at Christmas."

"Why--how should I be different, Dammy?" asked the girl, turning her gaze upon his troubled
face, which seemed to twitch and work as though in pain.

"How?... Why, you might be--"

"Might be what, dear?"

"You might be--engaged."

The girl saw that in the man's eyes to which his tongue could not, or would not, give utterance.
As he spoke the word, with a catch in his breath, she suddenly flung her arms round his neck,
pressed her lips to his white face, and, with a little sob, whispered:--

"Not unless to you, Dam, darling--there is no other man in the world but you," and their lips
met in their first lover's kiss.... Oh, the wonderful, glorious world!... The grand, beautiful
old world! Place of delight, joy, wonder, beauty, gratitude. How the kind little stars sang
to them and the benign old moon looked down and said: "Never despair, never despond, never
fear, God has given you Love. What matters else?" How the man swore to himself that he would
be worthy of her, strive for her, live for her; if need be--die for her. How the woman vowed
to herself that she would be worthy of her splendid, noble lover, help him, cheer him, watch
over him. Oh, if he might only need her some day and depend on her for something in spite of
his strength and manhood. How she yearned to do something for him, to give, to give, to give.
Their hour lasted for countless ages, and passed in a flash. The world intruded, spoiling itself
as always.

"Home to dinner, darling," said the girl at last. "Hardly time to dress if we hurry. Grumper
will simply rampage and roar. He gets worse every day." She disengaged herself from the boy's
arms and her terribly beautiful, painfully exquisite, trance.

"Give me one more kiss, tell me once more that you love me and only me, for ever, and let us
go.... God bless this place. I thank God. I love God--now ..." she said.

Dam could not speak at all.

They walked away, hand in hand, incredulous, tremulous, bewildered by the beauty and wonder
and glory of Life.

Alas!

As they passed the Lodge and entered the dark avenue, Dam found his tongue.

"Must tell Grumper," he said. Nothing mattered since Lucille loved him like that. She'd be
happier in the subaltern's hut in the plains of India than in a palace. If Grumper didn't like
it, he must lump it. Her happiness was more important than Grumper's pleasure.

"Yes," acquiesced Lucille, "but tell him on Monday morning when you go. Let's have this all
to ourselves, darling, just for a few hours. I believe he'll be jolly glad. Dear old bear,
isn't he--really."

In the middle of the avenue Lucille stopped.

"Dammy, my son," quoth she, "tell me the absolute, bare, bald truth. Much depends upon it and
it'll spoil everything if you aren't perfectly, painfully honest."

"Right-O," responded Dam. "Go it."

"Am I the very very loveliest woman that ever lived?"

"No," replied Dam, "but I wouldn't have a line of your face changed."

"Am I the cleverest woman in the world?"

"No. But you're quite clever enough for me. I wouldn't have you any cleverer. God forbid."

"Am I absolutely perfect and without flaw--in character."

"No. But I love your faults."

"Do you wish to enshrine me in a golden jewel-studded temple and worship me night and day?"

"No. I want to put you in a house and live with you."

"Hurrah," cried the surprising young woman. "That's love, Dam. It's not rotten idealizing and
sentimentalizing that dies away as soon as facts are seen as such. You're a man, Dam, and I'm
going to be a woman. I loathe that bleating, glorified nonsense that the Reverend Bill and
Captain Luniac and poor old Ormonde and people talk when they're 'in love'. Love! It's just
sentimental idealizing and the worship of what does not exist and therefore cannot last. You
love me, don't you, Dammy, not an impossible figment of a heated imagination? This will last,
dear.... If you'd idealized me into something unearthly and impossible you'd have tired of
me in six months or less. You'd have hated me when you saw the reality, and found yourself
tied to it for life."

"Make a speech, Daughter," replied Damocles. "Get on a stump and make a blooming speech."

Both were a little unstrung.

"I must wire this news to Delorme," said he suddenly. "He'll be delighted." Lucillemade no reply.

As they neared the end of the drive and came within sight of the house, the girl whispered:--

"My own pal, Dammy, for always. And you thought I could be engaged to anyone but you. There
is no one but you in the world, dear. It would be quite empty if you left it. Don't worry about
ways and means and things, Dam, I shall enjoy waiting for you--twenty years."

He thought of that, later.

On the morrow of that incredible day, Damocles de Warrenne sprang from his bed at sunrise and
sought the dew-washed garden below the big south terrace.

The world contained no happier man. Sunrise in a glorious English summer and a grand old English
garden, on the day after the Day of Days. He trod on air as he lived over again every second
of that wonderful over-night scene, and scarcely realized the impossible truth.

Lucille loved him, as a lover! Lucille the alter ego, the understanding, splendid friend; companion
in play and work, in idle gaiety and serious consideration; the bon camarade, the real chum
and pal.

Life was a Song, the world a Paradise, the future a long-drawn Glory.

He would like to go and hold the Sword in his hand for a minute, and--something seemed to stir
beneath his foot, and a shudder ran through his powerful frame.

The brightness of the morning was dimmed, and then Lucille came towards him blushing, radiant,
changed, and all was well with the world, and God in high heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

After breakfast they again walked in the garden, the truly enchanted garden, and talked soberly
with but few endearments though with over-full hearts, and with constant pauses to eye the
face of the other with wondering rapture. They came of a class and a race not given to excessive
demonstrativeness, but each knew that the other loved--for life.

In the afternoon, guests began to arrive soon after lunch, duties usurped the place of pleasures,
and the lovers met as mere friends in the crowd. There was meaning in the passing glances,
however, and an occasional hand-touch in the giving of tennis-ball, or tea-cup.

"Half the County" was present, and while the younger fry played tennis, croquet, clock-golf,
and bowls, indulged in "mixed cricket," or attempted victory at archery or miniature-rifle
shooting, the sedate elders strolled o'er velvet lawns beneath immemorial elms, sat in groups,
or took tea by carpet-spread marquees.

Miss Amelia Harringport, seeing Dam with a croquet-mallet in his hand, observed that she adored
croquet. Dam stated in reply that Haddon Berners was a fearful dog at it, considered there
should be a croquet Blue in fact, and would doubtless be charmed to make up a set with her
and the curate, the Reverend William Williamson Williams (Holy Bill), and Another. Dam himself
was cut off from the bliss of being the Other--did not know the game at all.

Miss Amelia quickly tired of her croquet with the Haddock, Holy Bill and the Vicar's Wife's
Sister, who looked straitly after Holy Bill on this and all other occasions. Seeing Dam shepherding
a flock of elders to the beautifully-mown putting-tracks radiating from the central circle
of "holes" for the putting competition, she informed him that she adored putting, so much so
that she wanted lessons from him, the local amateur golf-champion.

"I just want a little personal tuition from the Champion and I shall be quite a classy putter,"
she gurgled.

"I will personally tuit," replied Dam, "and when you are tuited we will proceed to win the prize."

Carefully posing the maiden aspirant for putting excellence at the end of the yard-wide velvety
strip leading to the green and "hole," Dam gave his best advice, bade her smite with restraint,
and then proceeded to the "hole" to retrieve the ball for his own turn. Other couples did "preliminary
canters" somewhat similarly on the remaining spokes of the great wheel of the putting "clock".

The canny and practised Amelia, who had designs upon the handsome silver prize as well as upon
the handsome Damocles, smote straight and true with admirable judgment, and the ball sped steadily
down the track direct for the "hole," a somewhat large and deep one.

"By Jove! Magnificent!" cried Dam, with quick and generous appreciation of the really splendid
putt. "You'll hole out in one this time, anyhow." As the slowing ball approached the "hole"
he inserted his hand therein, laughing gaily, to anticipate the ball which with its last grain
of momentum would surely reach it and topple in.

Then the thing happened!

As he put his hand to the grass-encircled goal of the maiden's hopes and ball, its gloomy depths
appeared to move, swirl round, rise up, as a small green snake uncoiled in haste and darted
beneath Dam's approaching upturned hand, and swiftly undulated across the lawn.

With a shriek that momentarily paralysed the gay throng, turned all eyes in his direction,
and brought the more cool and helpful running to the spot, Dam fell writhing, struggling, and
screaming to the ground.

"The SNAKE! The SNAKE!" he howled, while tears gushed from his eyes and he strove to dig his
way into the ground for safety.

"There it goes!" squealed the fair Amelia pointing tragically. Ladies duly squeaked, bunched
their skirts tightly, jumped on chairs or sought protection by the side of stalwart admirers.

Men cried "Where?" and gathered for battle. One sporting character emitted an appalling "View
Halloo" and there were a few "Yoicks" and "Gone Aways" to support his little solecism. Lucille,
rushing to Dam, encountered the fleeing reptile and with a neat stroke of her putter ended
its career.

"It's all right, old chap," sneered Haddon Berners, as the mad, convulsed, and foaming Dam
screamed: "It's under my foot. It's moving, moving, moving out," and doubled up into a knot.

"Oh no, it isn't," he continued. "Lucille has killed it. Nothing to be terrified about....
Oh, chuck it, man! Get up and blow your nose...." He was sent sprawling on his back as Lucille
dropped by Dam's side and strove to raise his face from the grass.

"Come off it, Dam! You're very funny, we know," adjured the sporting character, rather ashamed
and discomfortable at seeing a brother man behaving so. There are limits to acting the goat--especially
with wimmin about. Why couldn't Dam drop it?...

Lucille was shocked and horrified to the innermost fibres of her being. Her dignified, splendid
Dam rolling on the ground, shrieking, sobbing, writhing.... Ill or well, joke or seizure, it
was horrible, unseemly.... Why couldn't the gaping fools be obliterated?...

"Dam, dear," she whispered in his ear, as she knelt over the shuddering, gasping, sobbing man.
"What is it, Dam? Are you ill? Dam, it's Lucille.... The snake is quite dead, dear. I killed
it. Are you joking? Dam! Dam!" ...

The stricken wretch screamed like a terrified child.

"Oh, won't somebody fetch Dr. Jones if he's not here yet," she wailed, turning to the mystified
crowd of guests. "Get some water quickly, somebody, salts, brandy, anything! Oh, do go away,"
and she deftly unfastened the collar of the spasm-wracked sufferer. "Haddon," she cried, looking
up and seeing the grinning Haddock, "go straight for Dr. Jones. Cycle if you're afraid of spoiling
your clothes by riding. Quick!"

"Oh, he'll be all right in a minute," drawled the Haddock, who did not relish a stiff ride
along dusty roads in his choicest confection. "He's playing the fool, I believe--or a bit scared
at the ferocious serpent."

Lucille gave the youth a look that he never forgot, and turned to the sporting person.

"You know the stables, Mr. Fellerton," she said. "Would you tell Pattern or somebody to send
a man for Dr. Jones? Tell him to beat the record."

The sporting one sprinted toward the shrubbery which lay between the grounds and the kitchen-gardens,
beyond which were the stables.

Most people, with the better sort of mind, withdrew and made efforts to recommence the interrupted
games or to group themselves once more about the lawns and marquees.

Others remained to make fatuous suggestions, to wonder, or merely to look on with feelings
approaching awe and fascination. There was something uncanny here--a soldier and athlete weeping
and screaming and going into fits at the sight of a harmless grass-snake, probably a mere blind
worm! Was he a hysterical, neurotic coward, after all--a wretched decadent?

Poor Lucille suffered doubly--every pang, spasm, and contortion that shook and wrung the body
of her beloved, racked her own frame, and her mind was tortured by fear, doubts, and agony.
"Oh, please go away, dear people," she moaned. "It is a touch of sun. He is a little subject
to slight fits--very rarely and at long intervals, you know. He may never have another." A
few of the remaining onlookers backed away a little shamefacedly. Others offered condolences
while inwardly scoffing at the "sun" explanation. Did not de Warrenne bowl, bat, or field,
bare-headed, throughout the summer's day without thinking of the sun? Who had heard of the
"fits" before? Why had they not transpired during the last dozen years or so? "Help me carry
him indoors, somebody," said the miserable, horrified Lucille. That would get rid of the silly
staring "helpers" anyhow--even if it brought matters to the notice of Grumper, who frankly
despised and detested any kind of sick person or invalid.

What would he say and do? What had happened to the glowing, glorious world that five minutes
ago was fairy-land and paradise? Was her Dam a wretched coward, afraid of things, screaming
like a girl at the sight of a common snake, actually terrified into a fit? Better be a pick-pocket
than a.... Into the thinning, whispering circle came General Sir Gerald Seymour Stukeley, apoplectically
angry. Some silly fool, he understood, had fainted or something--probably a puling tight-laced
fool of a woman who starved herself to keep slim. People who wanted to faint should stay and
do it at home--not come creating disturbances and interruptions at Monksmead garden-parties....

And then he saw a couple of young men and Lucille striving to raise the recumbent body of a
man. The General snorted as snorts the wart-hog in love and war, or the graceful hippopotamus
in the river.

"What the Devil's all this?" he growled. "Some poor fella fainted with the exertions of putting?"
A most bitter old gentleman.

Lucille turned to him and his fierce gaze fell upon the pale, contorted, and tear-stained face
of Dam.

The General flushed an even deeper purple, and the stick he held perpendicularly slowly rose
to horizontal, though he did not raise his hand.

He made a loud but wholly inarticulate sound.

Haddon Berners, enjoying himself hugely, volunteered the information.

"He saw a little grass-snake and yelled out. Then he wept and fainted. Coming round now. Got
the funks, poor chap."

Lucille's hands closed (the thumbs correctly on the knuckles of the second fingers), and, for
a moment, it was in her heart to smite the Haddock on the lying mouth with the straight-from-the-shoulder
drive learned in days of yore from Dam, and practised on the punching-ball with great assiduity.
Apparently the Haddock realized the fact for he skipped backward with agility.

"He is ill, Grumper dear," she said instead. "He has had a kind of fit. Perhaps he had sunstroke
in India, and it has just affected him now in the sun...."

Grumper achieved the snort of his life.

It may have penetrated Dam's comatose brain, indeed, for at that moment, with a moan and a
shudder, he struggled to a sitting posture.

"The Snake," he groaned, and collapsed again.

"What the Devil!" roared the General. "Get up, you miserable, whining cur! Get indoors, you
bottle-fed squalling workhouse brat! Get out of it, you decayed gentlewoman!" ... The General
bade fair to have a fit of his own.

Lucille flung herself at him.

"Can't you see he's very ill, Grumper? Have you no heart at all? Don't be so cruel ... and
... stupid."

The General gasped.... Insults!... From a chit of a girl!... "Ill!" he roared. "What the Devil
does he want to be ill for now, here, to-day? I never ..."

Dam struggled to his feet with heroic efforts at self-mastery, and stood swaying, twitching,
trembling in every limb, and obviously in an agony of terror.

"The Snake!" he said again.

"Ha!" barked General Stukeley. "Been fighting forty boa-constrictors, what? Just had a fearful
struggle with five thousand fearful pythons, what? There'll be another Victoria Cross in your
family soon, if you're not careful."

"You are an unjust and cruel old man," stormed Lucille, stamping her foot at the hitherto dread
Grumper. "He is ill, I tell you! You'll be ill yourself someday. He had a fit. He'll be all
right in a minute. Let him go in and lie down. It wasn't the snake at all. There wasn't any
snake--where he was. He is just ill. He has been working too hard. Let him go in and lie down."

"Let him go to the Devil," growled the infuriated General, and turned to such few of the guests
as had not displayed sufficient good sense and good taste to go elsewhere and resume their
interrupted games, tea, or scandal, to remark:--

"I really apologize most sincerely and earnestly for this ridiculous scene. The boy should
be in petticoats, apparently. I hope he won't encounter a mouse or a beetle to-night. Let's
all--er--come and have a drink."

Lucille led her shaking and incoherent lover indoors and established him on a sofa, had a fire
lit for him as he appeared to be deathly cold, and sat holding his clammy hand until the arrival
of Dr. Jones.

As well as his chattering teeth and white frozen lips would allow, he begged for forgiveness,
for understanding. "He wasn't really wholly a coward in essentials." ...

The girl kissed the contorted face and white lips passionately. Dr. Jones prescribed bed and
"complete mental and bodily rest". He said he would "send something," and in a cloud of wise
words disguised the fact that he did not in the least know what to do. It was not in his experience
that a healthy young Hercules, sound as a bell, without spot or blemish, should behave like
an anaemic, neurotic girl....

Dam passed the night in the unnameable, ghastly hell of agony that he knew so well and that
he wondered to survive.

In the morning he received a note from Sir Gerald Seymour Stukeley. It was brief and clear:--"Sandhurst
is scarcely the place for a squealing coward, still less the Army. Nor is there room for one
at Monksmead. I shall not have the pleasure of seeing you before you catch the 11.15 train;
I might say things better left unsaid. I thank God you do not bear our name though you have
some of our blood. This will be the one grain of comfort when I think that the whole County
is gibing and jeering. No--your name is no more Seymour Stukeley than is your nature. If you
will favour my Solicitors with your address, they will furnish you with an account of your
patrimony and such balance thereof as may remain--if any. But I believe you came to England
worth about fifty pounds--which you have probably spent as pocket-money. I beg of you to communicate
with me or my household in no way whatsoever.

"G.S.S."

Hastily dressing, Dam fled from the house on foot, empty handed and with no money but a five-pound
note legitimately his own private property. On his dressing-table he left the cheque given
to him by his "grandfather" for ensuing Sandhurst expenses. Hiding in the station waiting-room,
he awaited the next train to London--with thoughts of recruiting-sergeants and the Guards.
From force of habit he travelled first-class, materially lessening his five pounds. In the
carriage, which he had to himself, he sat stunned. He was rather angry than dismayed and appalled.
He was like the soldier, cut down by a sabre-slash or struck by a bullet, who, for a second,
stares dully at the red gash or blue hole--waiting for the blood to flow and the pain to commence.

He was numbed, emotionally dead, waiting the terrible awakening to the realization that he
had lost Lucille. What mattered the loss of home, career, friends, honour--mere anti-climax
to glance at it.

Yesterday!... To-day!

What was Lucille thinking? What would she do and say? Would she grow to hate the coward who
had dared to make love to her, dared to win her love!

Would she continue to love him in spite of all?

I shall enjoy waiting twenty years for you, she had said yesterday, and The world would be
quite empty if you left it. What would it be while he remained in it a publicly disgraced coward?
A coward ridiculed by the effeminate, degenerate Haddock, who had no soul above club-ribbons,
and no body above a Piccadilly crawl!

Could she love him in spite of all? She was great-hearted enough for anything. Perhaps for
anything but that. To her, cowardice must be the last lowest depths of degradation. Anyhow
he had done the straight thing by Grumper, in leaving the house without any attempt to let
her know, to say farewell, to ask her to believe in him for a while. If there had been any
question as to the propriety of his trying to become engaged to her when he was the penniless
gentleman-cadet, was there any question about it when he was the disgraced out-cast, the publicly
exposed coward?

Arrived at the London terminus he sought a recruiting-sergeant and, of course, could not find one.

However, Canterbury and Cavalry were indissolubly connected in his mind, and it had occurred
to him that, in the Guards, he would run more risk of coming face to face with people whom
he knew than in any other corps. He would go for the regiment he had known and loved in India
(as he had been informed) and about which he had heard much all his life. It was due for foreign
service in a year or two, and, so far as he knew, none of its officers had ever heard of him.
Ormonde Delorme was mad about it, but could not afford its expensive mess. Dam had himself
thought how jolly it would be if Grumper "came down" sufficiently handsomely for him to be
able to join it on leaving Sandhurst. He'd join it now!

He hailed a hansom and proceeded to Charing Cross, whence he booked for the noble and ancient
city of Canterbury.

Realizing that only one or two sovereigns would remain to him otherwise, he travelled in a
third-class carriage for the first time in his hitherto luxurious life. Its bare discomfort
and unpleasant occupants (one was a very malodorous person indeed, and one a smoker of what
smelt like old hats and chair-stuffing in a rank clay pipe) brought home to him more clearly
than anything had done, the fact that he was a homeless, destitute person about to sell his
carcase for a shilling, and seek the last refuge of the out-of-work, the wanted-by-the-police,
the disgraced, and the runaway.

That carriage and its occupants showed him, in a blinding flash, that his whole position, condition,
outlook, future, and life were utterly and completely changed.

He was Going Under. Had anybody else ever done it so quickly?...

He went Under, and his entrance to the Underworld was through the great main-gates of the depot
of the Queen's Own (2nd) Regiment of Heavy Cavalry, familiarly known as the Queen's Greys.

CHAPTER VIII.

TROOPERS OF THE QUEEN.

GLIMPSES OF CERTAIN "POOR DEVILS" AND THE HELL THEY INHABITED.

The Queen's Own (2nd) Regiment of Heavy Cavalry (The Queen's Greys) were under orders for India
and the influence of great joy. That some of its members were also under the influence of potent
waters is perhaps a platitudinous corollary.

... "And phwat the Divvle's begone of me ould pal Patsy Flannigan, at all, at all?" inquired
Trooper Phelim O'Shaughnessy, entering the barrack-room of E Troop of the Queen's Greys, lying
at Shorncliffe Camp. "Divvle a shmell of the baste can I see, and me back from furlough-leaf
for minnuts. Has the schamer done the two-shtep widout anny flure, as Oi've always foretould?
Is ut atin' his vegetables by the roots he now is in the bone-orchard, and me owing the poor
bhoy foive shillin'? Where is he?"

"In 'orsepittle," laconically replied Trooper Henry Hawker, late of Whitechapel, without looking
up from the jack-boot he was polishing.

"Phwat wid?" anxiously inquired the bereaved Phelim.

"Wot wiv'? Wiv' callin' 'Threes abaht' after one o' the Young Jocks,"[16] was the literal reply.

"Begob that same must be a good hand wid his fisties--or was it a shillaleigh?" mused the Irishman.

"'Eld the Helliot belt in Hinjer last year, they say," continued the Cockney. "Good? Not'arf.
I wouldn't go an' hinsult the bloke for the price of a pot. No. 'Erbert 'Awker would not. (Chuck
us yore button-stick, young 'Enery Bone.) Good? 'E's a 'Oly Terror--and I don't know as there's
a man in the Queen's Greys as could put 'im to sleep--not unless it's Matthewson," and here
Trooper Herbert Hawker jerked his head in the direction of Trooper Damocles de Warrenne (alias
D. Matthewson) who, seated on his truckle-bed, was engaged in breathing hard, and rubbing harder,
upon a brass helmet from which he had unscrewed a black horse-hair plume.

Dam, arrayed in hob-nailed boots, turned-up overalls "authorized for grooming," and a "grey-back"
shirt, looked indefinably a gentleman.

Trooper Herbert Hawker, in unlaced gymnasium shoes, "leathers," and a brown sweater (warranted
not to show the dirt), looked quite definably what he was, a Commercial Road ruffian; and his
foreheadless face, greasy cow-lick "quiff" (or fringe), and truculent expression, inspired
more disgust than confidence in the beholder.

His reference to Dam as the only likely champion of the Heavy Cavalry against the Hussar was
a tribute to the tremendous thrashing he had received from "Trooper D. Matthewson" when the
same had become necessary after a long course of unresented petty annoyance. Hawker was that
very rare creature, a boaster, who made good, a bully of great courage and determination, and
a loud talker, who was a very active doer; and the battle had been a terrible one.

The weary old joke of having a heavy valise pulled down on to one's upturned face from the
shelf above, by means of a string, as one sleeps, Dam had taken in good part. Being sent to
the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major for the "Key of the Half Passage" by this senior recruit, he
did not mind in the least (though he could have kicked himself for his gullibility when he
learned that the "Half Passage" is not a place, but a Riding-School manoeuvre, and escaped
from the bitter tongue of the incensed autocrat--called untimely from his tea! How the man
had bristled. Hair, eyebrows, moustache, buttons even--the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major had
been rough indeed, and had done his riding rough-shod over the wretched lad).

Being instructed to "go and get measured for his hoof-picker" Dam had not resented, though
he had considered it something of an insult to his intelligence that Hawker should expect to
"have" him so easily as that. He had taken in good part the arrangement of his bed in such
a way that it collapsed and brought a pannikin of water down with it, and on to it, in the
middle of a cold night. He had received with good humour, and then with silent contempt, the
names of "Gussie the Bank Clurk," references to "broken-dahn torfs" and "tailor's bleedn' dummies,"
queries as to the amount of "time" he had got for the offence that made him a "Queen's Hard
Bargain," and various the other pleasantries whereby Herbert showed his distaste for people
whose accent differed from his own, and whose tastes were unaccountable.

Dam had borne these things because he was certain he could thrash the silly animal when the
time came, and because he had a wholesome dread of the all-too-inevitable military "crimes"
(one of which fighting is--as subversive of good order and military discipline).

It had come, however, and for Dam this exotic of the Ratcliffe Highway had thereafter developed
a vast admiration and an embarrassing affection. It was a most difficult matter to avoid his
companionship when "walking-out" and also to avoid hurting his feelings.

It was a humiliating and chastening experience to the man, who had supported himself by boxing
in booths at fairs and show-grounds, to find this "bloomin' dook of a 'Percy,'" this "lah-de-dar
'Reggie'" who looked askance at good bread-and-dripping, this finnicky "Clarence" without a
"bloody" to his conversation, this "blasted, up-the-pole[17] 'Cecil'"--a man with a quicker
guard, a harder punch, a smarter ring-craft, a better wind, and a tougher appetite for "gruel"
than himself.

The occasion was furnished by a sad little experience.

Poor drunken Trooper Bear (once the Honourable MacMahon FitzUrse), kindliest, weakest, gentlest
of gentlemen, had lurched one bitter soaking night (or early morning) into the barrack-room,
singing in a beautiful tenor:--

"Menez-moi" dit la belle, "A la rive fidèle Où l'on aime toujours." ...--"Cette rive ma chère
On ne la connait guère Au pays des amours."....

Trooper Herbert Hawker had no appreciation for Theophile Gautier--or perhaps none for being
awakened from his warm slumbers.

"'Ere! stow that blarsted catawaulin'," he roared, with a choice selection from the Whitechapel
tongue, in which he requested the adjectived noun to be adverbially "quick about it, too".

With a beatific smile upon his weak handsome face, Trooper Bear staggered toward the speaker,
blew him a kiss, and, in a vain endeavour to seat himself upon the cot, collapsed upon the ground.

"You're a...." (adverbially adjectived noun) shouted Hawker. "You ain't a man, you're a...."
"[Greek: skias hovar havthropos]" ... "Man is the dream of a shadow," suggested Bear dreamily
with a hiccup....

"D'yer know where you are, you ..." roared Hawker.

"Dear Heart, I am in hell," replied the recumbent one, "but by the Mercy of God I'm splendidly
drunk. Yes, hell. 'Lasciate ogni speranza,' sweet Amaryllis. I am Morag of the Misty Way. Mos'
misty. Milky Way. Yesh. Milk Punchy Way." ...

"I'll give you all the punch you'll want, in abaht two ticks if you don't chuck it--you blarsted
edjucated flea," warned Hawker, half rising.

Dam got up and pulled on his cloak preparatory to helping the o'er-taken one to bed, as a well-aimed
ammunition boot took the latter nearly on the ear.

Struggling to his feet with the announcement that he was "the King's fair daughter, weighed
in the balance and found--devilish heavy and very drunk," the unhappy youth lurched and fell
upon the outraged Hawker--who struck him a cruel blow in the face.

At the sound of the blow and heavy fall, Dam turned, saw the blood--and went Stukeley-mad.
Springing like a tiger upon Hawker he dragged him from his cot and knocked him across it. In
less than a minute he had twice sent him to the boards, and it took half-a-dozen men on either
side to separate the combatants and get them to postpone the finish till the morning. That
night Dam dreamed his dream and, on the morrow, behind the Riding-School, and in fifteen rounds,
became, by common consent, champion bruiser of the Queen's Greys--by no ambition of his own.

And so--as has been said--Trooper Henry Hawker ungrudgingly referred Trooper Phelim O'Shaughnessy
to him in the matter of reducing the pride of the Young Jock who had dared to "desthroy" a dragoon.

Trooper Phelim O'Shaughnessy--in perfect-fitting glove-tight scarlet stable-jacket (that never
went near a stable, being in fact the smart shell-jacket, shaped like an Eton coat, sacred
to "walking-out" purposes), dark blue overalls with broad white stripe, strapped over half-wellington
boots adorned with glittering swan-neck spurs, a pill-box cap with white band and button, perched
jauntily on three hairs--also looked what he was, the ideal heavy-cavalry man, the swaggering,
swashbuckling trooper, beau sabreur, good all round and all through....

The room in which these worthies and various others (varying also in dress, from shirt and
shorts to full review-order for Guard) had their being, expressed the top note and last cry--or
the lowest note and deepest groan--of bleak, stark utilitarianism. Nowhere was there hint or
sign of grace and ornament. Bare deal-plank floor, bare white-washed walls, plank and iron
truckle beds, rough plank and iron trestle tables, rough plank and iron benches, rough plank
and iron boxes clamped to bedsteads, all bore the same uniform impression of useful ugliness,
ugly utility. The apologist in search of a solitary encomium might have called it clean--save
around the hideous closed stove where muddy boots, coal-dust, pipe-dottels, and the bitter-end
of five-a-penny "gaspers"[18] rebuked his rashness.

A less inviting, less inspiring, less home-like room for human habitation could scarce be found
outside a jail. Perhaps this was the less inappropriate in that a jail it was, to a small party
of its occupants--born and bred to better things.

The eye was grateful even for the note of cheer supplied by the red cylindrical valise on the
shelf above each cot, and by the occasional scarlet tunic and stable-jacket. But for these
it had been, to the educated eye, an even more grim, grey, depressing, beauty-and-joy-forsaken
place than it was....

Dam (alias Trooper D. Matthewson) placed the gleaming helmet upon his callous straw-stuffed
pillow, carefully rubbed the place where his hand had last touched it, and then took from a
peg his scarlet tunic with its white collar, shoulder-straps and facings. Having satisfied
himself that to burnish further its glittering buttons would be to gild refined gold, he commenced
a vigorous brushing--for it was now his high ambition to "get the stick"--in other words to
be dismissed from guard-duty as reward for being the best-turned-out man on parade.... As he
reached up to his shelf for his gauntlets and pipe-clay box, Trooper Phelim O'Shaughnessy swaggered
over with much jingle of spur and playfully smote him, netherly, with his cutting whip.

"What-ho, me bhoy," he roared, "and how's me natty Matty--the natest foightin' man in E Troop,
which is sayin' in all the Dhraghoons, which is sayin' in all the Arrmy! How's Matty?"

"Extant," replied Dam. "How's Shocky, the biggest liar in the same?"

As he extended his hand it was noticeable that it was much smaller than the hand of the smaller
man to whom it was offered. "Ye'll have to plug and desthroy the schamin' divvle that strook
poor Patsy Flannigan, Matty," said the Irishman. "Ye must bate the sowl out of the baste before
we go to furrin' parts. Loife is uncertain an' ye moight never come back to do ut, which the
Holy Saints forbid--an' the Hussars troiumphin' upon our prosprit coorpses. For the hanner
an' glory av all Dhraghoons, of the Ould Seconds, and of me pore bed-ridden frind, Patsy Flannigan,
ye must go an' plug the wicked scutt, Matty darlint."

"It was Flannigan's fault," replied Dam, daubing pipe-clay on the huge cuff of a gauntlet which
he had drawn on to a weird-looking wooden hand, sacred to the purposes of glove-drying. "He
got beastly drunk and insulted a better man than himself by insulting his Corps--or trying
to. He called a silly lie after a total stranger and got what he deserved. He shouldn't seek
sorrow if he doesn't want to find it, and he shouldn't drink liquor he can't carry."

"And the Young Jock beat Patsy when drunk, did he?" murmured O'Shaughnessy, in tones of awed
wonder. "I riverince the man, for there's few can beat him sober. Knocked Patsy into hospital
an' him foightin' dhrunk! Faith, he must be another Oirish gintleman himself, indade."

"He's a Scotchman and was middle-weight champion of India last year," rejoined Dam, and moistened
his block of pipe-clay again in the most obvious, if least genteel, way.

"Annyhow he's a mere Hussar and must be rimonsthrated wid for darin' to assault and batther
a Dhraghoon--an' him dhrunk, poor bhoy. Say the wurrud, Matty. We'll lay for the spalpeen,
the whole of E Troop, at the Ring o' Bells, an' whin he shwaggers in like he was a Dhraghoon
an' a sodger, ye'll up an' say 'Threes about' an' act accordin' subsequint, an' learn the baste
not to desthroy an' insult his betthers of the Ould Second. Thread on the tail of his coat,
Matty...."

"If I had anything to do with it at all I'd tread on Flannigan's coat, and you can tell him
so, for disgracing the Corps.... Take off your jacket and help with my boots, Shocky. I'm for
Guard."

"Oi'd clane the boots of no man that ud demane himself to ax it," was the haughty reply of
the disappointed warrior. "Not for less than a quart at laste," he amended.

"A quart it is," answered Dam, and O'Shaughnessy speedily divested himself of his stable-jacket,
incidentally revealing the fact that he had pawned his shirt.

"You have got your teeth ready, then?" observed Dam, noting the underlying bareness--and thereby
alluded to O'Shaughnessy's habit of pawning his false teeth after medical inspection and redeeming
them in time for the next, at the cost of his underclothing--itself redeemed in turn by means
of the teeth. Having been compelled to provide himself with a "plate" he invariably removed
the detested contrivance and placed it beside him when sitting down to meals (on those rare
occasions when he and not his "uncle" was the arbiter of its destinies)....

A young and important Lance-Corporal, a shocking tyrant and bully, strode into the room, his
sword clanking. O'Shaughnessy arose and respectfully drew him aside, offering him a "gasper".
They were joined by a lean hawk-faced individual answering to the name of Fish, who said he
had been in the American navy until buried alive at sea for smiling within sight of the quarter-deck.

"Yep," he was heard to say to some statement of O'Shaughnessy's. "We'll hatch a five-bunch
frame-up to put the eternal kibosh on the tuberous spotty--souled skunklet. Some. We'll make
him wise to whether a tippy, chew-the-mop, bandy-legged, moke-monkey can come square-pushing,
and with his legs out, down this side-walk, before we ante out. Some."

"Ah, Yus," agreed the Lance-Corporal. "Damned if I wouldn't chawnce me arm[19] and go fer 'im
meself before we leave--on'y I'm expectin' furver permotion afore long. But fer that I'd take
it up meself"--and he glanced at Dam.

"Ketch the little swine at it," remarked Trooper Herbert Hawker, as loudly as he dared, to
his "towny," Trooper Henry Bone. "'Chawnst 'is arm!' It's 'is bloomin' life 'e'd chawnce if
that Young Jock got settin' abaht 'im. Not 'arf!" and the exotic of the Ratcliffe Highway added
most luridly expressed improprieties anent the origins of the Lance-Corporal, his erstwhile
enemy and, now, superior officer, in addition.

"That's enough," said Dam shortly.

"Yep. Quit those low-browed sounds, guttermut, or I'll get mad all over," agreed Fish, whose
marvellous vocabulary included no foul words. There was no need for them.

"Hi halso was abaht ter request you not to talk beastial, Mr. 'Erbert 'Awker," chimed in Trooper
"Henery" Bone, anxious to be on the side of the saints. "Oo'd taike you to be the Missin' Hair
of a noble 'ouse when you do such--'Missin' Hair!' Missin' Link more like," he added with spurious
indignation.

The allusion was to the oft-expressed belief of Trooper Herbert Hawker, a belief that became
a certainty and subject for bloodshed and battle after the third quart or so, that there was
a mystery about his birth.

There was, according to his reputed papa....

The plotters plotted, and Dam completed the burnishing of his arms, spurs, buckles, and other
glittering metal impedimenta (the quantity of which earned the Corps its barrack-room soubriquet
of "the Polish Its"), finished the flicking of spots of pipe-clay from his uniform, and dressed
for Guard.

Being ready some time before he had to parade, he sat musing on his truckle-bed.

What a life! What associates (outside the tiny band of gentlemen-rankers). What cruel awful
publicity of existence--that was the worst of all. Oh, for a private room and a private coat,
and a meal in solitude! Some place of one's own, where one could express one's own individuality
in the choice and arrangement of property, and impress it upon one's environment.

One could not even think in private here.

And he was called a private soldier! A grim joke indeed, when the crying need of one's soul
was a little privacy.

A private soldier!

Well--and what of the theory of Compensations, that all men get the same sum-total of good
and bad, that position is really immaterial to happiness? What of the theory that more honour
means also more responsibility and worry, that more pay also means more expenses and a more
difficult position, that more seniority also means less youth and joy--that Fate only robs
Peter to pay Paul, and, when bestowing a blessing with one hand, invariably bestows a curse
with the other?

Too thin.

Excellent philosophy for the butterfly upon the road, preaching contentment to the toad, who,
beneath the harrow, knows exactly where each tooth-point goes. Let the butterfly come and try it.

What a life!

Not so bad at first, perhaps, for a stout-hearted, hefty sportsman, during recruit days when
everything is novel, there is something to learn, time is fully occupied, and one is too busy
to think, too busy evading strange pit-falls, and the just or (more often) unjust wrath of
the Room Corporal, the Squadron Orderly Sergeant, the Rough-Riding Corporal, the Squadron Sergeant-Major,
the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major, the Regimental Sergeant-Major, the Riding-Master.

But when, to the passed "dismissed soldier," everything is familiar and easy, weary, flat,
stale and unprofitable?

The (to one gently nurtured) ghastly food, companions, environment, monotony--the ghastly ambitions!

Fancy an educated gentleman's ambitions and horizon narrowed to a good-conduct "ring," a stripe
in the far future (and to be a Lance-Corporal with far more duty and no more pay, in the hope
of becoming a Corporal--that comfortable rank with the same duty and much more pay, and little
of the costly gold-lace to mount, and heavy expenses to assume that, while putting the gilt
on, takes it off, the position of Sergeant); and, for the present, to "keep off the peg," not
to be "for it," to "get the stick," for smartest turn-out, to avoid the Red-Caps,[20] to achieve
an early place in the scrimmage at the corn-bin and to get the correct amount of two-hundred
pounds in the corn-sack when drawing forage and corn; to placate Troop Sergeants, the Troop
Sergeant-Major and Squadron Sergeant-Major; to have a suit of mufti at some safe place outside
and to escape from the branding searing scarlet occasionally; possibly even the terrible ambition
to become an Officer's servant so as to have a suit of mufti as a right, and a chance of becoming
Mess-Sergeant and then Quarter-Master, and perhaps of getting an Honorary Commission without
doing a single parade or guard after leaving the troop!...

What a life for a man of breeding and refinement!... Fancy having to remember the sacred and
immeasurable superiority of a foul-mouthed Lance-Corporal who might well have been your own
stable-boy, a being who can show you a deeper depth of hell in Hell, wreak his dislike of you
in unfair "fatigues," and keep you at the detested job of coal-drawing on Wednesdays; who can
achieve a "canter past the beak"[21] for you on a trumped-up charge and land you in the "digger,"[22]
who can bring it home to you in a thousand ways that you are indeed the toad beneath the harrow.
Fancy having to remember, night and day, that a Sergeant, who can perhaps just spell and cypher,
is a monarch to be approached in respectful spirit; that the Regimental Sergeant-Major, perhaps
coarse, rough, and ignorant, is an emperor to be approached with fear and trembling; that a
Subaltern, perhaps at school with you, is a god not to be approached at all. Fancy looking
forward to being "branded with a blasted worsted spur," and, as a Rough-Riding Corporal, receiving
a forfeit tip from each young officer who knocks off his cap with his lance in Riding-School....

Well! One takes the rough with the smooth--but perceives with great clearness that the (very)
rough predominates, and that one does not recommend a gentleman to enlist, save when a Distinguished
Relative with Influence has an early Commission ready in his pocket for him.

Lacking the Relative, the gently-nurtured man, whether he win to a Commission eventually or
not, can only do one thing more rash than enlist in the British Army, and that is enlist in
the French Foreign Legion.

Discipline for soul and body? The finest thing in all the world--in reason. But the discipline
of the tram-horse, of the blinded bullock at the wheel, of the well-camel, of the galley-slave--meticulous,
puerile, unending, unchanging, impossible ...? Necessary perhaps, once upon a time--but hard
on the man of brains, sensibility, heart, and individuality.

Soul and body? Deadly for the soul--and fairly dangerous for the body in the Cavalry Regiment
whose riding-master prefers the abominable stripped-saddle training to the bare-backed....

Dam yawned and looked at the tin clock on the shelf above the cot of the Room Corporal. Half
an hour yet.... Did time drag more heavily anywhere in the world?...

His mind roamed back over his brief, age-long life in the Queen's Greys and passed it in review.

The interview with the Doctor, the Regimental Sergeant-Major, the Adjutant, the Colonel--the
Oath on the Bible before that dread Superman.... How well he remembered his brief exordium--"Obey
your Superiors blindly; serve your Queen, Country, and Regiment to the best of your ability;
keep clean, don't drink, fear God, and--most important of all--take care of your horse. Take
care of your horse, d'ye hear?"

Also the drawled remark of the Adjutant afterwards, "Ah--what--ah--University?"--his own prompt
reply of "Whitechapel, sir," and the Adjutant's approving "Exactly.... You'll get on here by
good conduct, good riding, and good drill--not by--ah--good accent or anything else."

How well he remembered the strange depolarized feeling consequent upon realizing that his whole
worldly possessions consisted in three "grey-back" shirts, two pairs of cotton pants, two pairs
of woollen socks, a towel; a hold-all containing razor, shaving-brush, spoon, knife and fork,
and a button-stick; a cylindrical valise with hair-brush, clothes-brush, brass-brush, and boot-brushes;
a whip, burnisher, and dandy-brush (all three, for some reason, to be paid for as part of a
"free" kit); jack-boots and jack-spurs, wellington-boots and swan-neck box-spurs, ammunition
boots; a tin of blacking and another of plate powder; blue, white-striped riding-breeches,
blue, white-striped overalls, drill-suit of blue serge, scarlet tunic, scarlet stable-jacket,
scarlet drill "frock," a pair of trousers of lamentable cut "authorized for grooming," brass
helmet with black horse-hair plume, blue pill-box cap with white stripe and button, gauntlets
and gloves, sword-belt and pouch-belt, a carbine and a sword. Also of a daily income of one
loaf, butter, tea, and a pound of meat (often uneatable), and the sum of one shilling and twopence
subject to a deduction of threepence a day "mess-fund," fourpence a month for delft, and divers
others for library, washing, hair-cutting, barrack-damages, etc.

Yes, it had given one a strange feeling of nakedness, and yet of a freedom from the tyranny
of things, to find oneself so meagrely and yet so sufficiently endowed.

Then, the strange, lost, homeless feeling that Home is nothing but a cot and a box in a big
bare barrack-room, that the whole of God's wide Universe contains no private and enclosed spot
that is one's own peculiar place wherein to be alone--at first a truly terrible feeling.

How one envied the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major his Staff Quarters--without going so far as
to envy the great Riding-Master his real separate and detached house!

No privacy--and a scarlet coat that encarnadined the world and made its wearer feel, as he
so often thought, like a live coal glowing bright in Hell.

Surely the greatest of all an officer's privileges was his right of mufti, his daily escape
from the burning cloth.

"Why does not the British officer wear his uniform always?" writes the perennial gratuitous
ass to the Press, periodically in the Silly Season.... Dam could tell him.

Memories ...!

Being jerked violently from uneasy slumber and broken, vivid dreams at 5 a.m., by the thunderous
banging of the Troop Sergeant's whip on the table, and his raucous roar of "Tumble out, you
lazy swine, before you get sunstroke! Rise and shine! Rise and shine, you tripe-hounds!" ...
Broken dreams on a smelly, straw-stuffed pillow and lumpy straw-stuffed pallet, dreams of "Circle
and cha-a-a-a-a-a-a-nge" "On the Fore-hand, Right About" "Right Pass, Shoulder Out" "Serpentine"
"Order Lance" "Trail Lance" "Right Front Thrust" (for the front rank of the Queen's Greys carry
lances); dreams of riding wild mad horses to unfathomable precipices and at unsurmountable
barriers....

Memories ...!

His first experience of "mucking out" stables at five-thirty on a chilly morning--doing horrible
work, horribly clad, feeling horribly sick. Wheeling away intentionally and maliciously over-piled
barrows to the muck-pits, upsetting them, and being cursed.

Being set to water a notoriously wild and vicious horse, and being pulled about like a little
dog at the end of the chain, burning into frozen fingers.

Not much of the glamour and glow and glory left!

Better were the interesting and amusing experiences of the Riding-School where his trained
and perfected hands and seat gave him a tremendous advantage, an early dismissal, and some
amelioration of the roughness of one of the very roughest experiences in a very rough life.

Even he, though, knew what it was to have serge breeches sticking to abraided bleeding knees,
to grip a stripped saddle with twin suppurating sores, and to burrow face-first in filthy tan
via the back of a stripped-saddled buck-jumper. How he had pitied some of the other recruits,
making their first acquaintance with the Trooper's "long-faced chum" under the auspices of
a pitiless, bitter-tongued Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major! Rough! What a character the fellow
was! Never an oath, never a foul word, but what a vocabulary and gift of invective, sarcasm
and cruel stinging reproof! A well-educated man if not a gentleman. "Don't dismount again,
Muggins--or is it Juggins?--without permission" when some poor fellow comes on his head as
his horse (bare of saddle and bridle) refuses at a jump. "Get up (and SIT BACK) you--you--hen,
you pierrot, you Aard Vark, you after-thought, you refined entertainer, you pimple, you performing
water-rat, you mistake, you byle, you drip, you worm-powder.... What? You think your leg's
broken? Well--you've got another, haven't you? Get up and break that. Keep your neck till you
get a stripped saddle and no reins.... Don't embrace the horse like that, you pawn-shop, I
can hear it blushing.... Send for the key and get inside it.... Keep those fine feet forward.
Keep them forward (and SIT BACK), Juggins or Muggins, or else take them into the Infantry--what
they were meant for by the look of them. Now then--over you go without falling if I have to
keep you here all night.... Look at that" (as the poor fellow is thrown across the jump by
the cunning brute that knows its rider has neither whip, spurs, saddle nor reins). "What? The
horse refuse? One of my horses refuse? If the man'll jump, the horse'll jump. (All of you repeat
that after me and don't forget it.) No. It's the man refuses, not the poor horse. Don't you
know the ancient proverb 'Faint heart ne'er took fair jump'....? What's the good of coming
here if your heart's the size of your eye-ball instead of being the size of your fist? Refuse?
Put him over it, man. Put him over--SIT BACK and lift him, and put him over. I'll give you
a thousand pounds if he refuses me...."

Then the day when poor bullied, baited, nervous Muggins had reached his limit and come to the
end of his tether--or thought he had. Bumped, banged, bucketed, thrown, sore from head to foot,
raw-kneed, laughed at, lashed by the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major's cruel tongue, blind and
sick with dust and pain and rage, he had at last turned his horse inward from his place in
the ride to the centre of the School, and dismounted.

How quaintly the tyrant's jaw had dropped in sheer astonishment, and how his face had purpled
with rage when he realized that his eyes had not deceived him and that the worm had literally
turned--without orders.

Indian, African, and Egyptian service, disappointment, and a bad wife had left Rough-Riding
Sergeant-Major Blount with a dangerous temper.

Poor silly Muggins. He had been Juggins indeed on that occasion, and, as the "ride" halted
of its own accord in awed amazement, Dam had longed to tell him so and beg him to return to
his place ere worse befell....

"I've 'ad enough, you bull-'eaded brute," shouted poor Muggins, leaving his horse and advancing
menacingly upon his (incalculably) superior officer, "an' fer two damns I'd break yer b----
jaw, I would. You ..."

Even as the Rough-Riding Corporal and two other men were dragging the struggling, raving recruit
to the door, en route for the Guard-room, entered the great remote, dread Riding-Master himself.

"What's this?" inquired Hon. Captain Style, Riding-Master of the Queen's Greys, strict, kind-hearted
martinet.

Salute, and explanations from the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major.

Torrent of accusation and incoherent complaint and threat from the baited Muggins.

"Mount that horse," says the Riding-Master.

"I'll go to Clink first," gasps Muggins. "I'll go to 'Ell first."

"No. Afterwards," replies the Riding-Master and sends the Rough-Riding Corporal for the backboard--dread
instrument of equestrian persuasion.

Muggins is forcibly mounted, put in the lunging ring and sent round and round till he throws
himself off at full gallop and lies crying and sobbing like a child--utterly broken.

Riding-Master smiles, allows Muggins to grow calmer, accepts his apologies and promises, shows
him he has had his Hell after, as promised, and that it is a better punishment than one that
leaves him with a serious "crime" entry on his Defaulter's Sheet for life.... That vile and
damning sheet that records the youthful peccadilloes and keeps it a life-long punishment after
its own severe punishment.... To the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major he quietly remarks: "No good
non-com makes crimes ... and don't forget that the day of riding-school brutality is passing.
You can carry a man further than you can kick him."

And the interrupted lesson continues.

"Sit back and you can't come off. Nobody falls off backwards." ...

Poor "Old Sit-Back"! (as he was called from his constant cry)--after giving that order and
guarantee daily for countless days--was killed in the riding-school by coming off backwards
from the stripped saddle of a rearing horse--(which promptly fell upon him and crushed his
chest)--that had never reared before and would not have reared then, it was said, but for the
mysterious introduction, under its saddle, of a remarkably "foreign" body.

Memories ...!

How certain old "Sit-Back" had been that Dam was a worthless "back-to-the-Army-again" when
he found him a finished horseman, an extraordinarily expert swordsman, and a master of the lance.

"You aren't old enough for a 'time-expired,'" he mused, "nor for a cashiered officer. One of
the professional 'enlist-desert-and-sell-me-kit,' I suppose. Anyhow you'll do time for one
of the three if I don't approve of ye.... You've been in the Cavalry before. Lancer regiment,
too. Don't tell me lies ... but see to it that I'm satisfied with your conduct. Gentlemen-rankers
are better in their proper place--Jail." ...

None the less it had given Dam a thrill of pride when, on being dismissed recruit-drills and
drafted from the reserve troop to a squadron, the Adjutant had posted him to E Troop, wherein
were congregated the seven other undoubted gentlemen-rankers of the Queen's Greys (one of whom
would one day become a peer of the realm and, meantime, followed what he called "the only profession
in the world" in discomfort for a space, the while his Commission ripened).

To this small band of "rankers" the accession of the finest boxer, swordsman, and horseman
in the corps, was invaluable, and helped them notably in their endeavour to show that there
are exceptions to all rules, and that a gentleman can make a first-class trooper. At least
so "Peerson" had said, and Dam had been made almost happy for a day.

Memories ...!

His first walk abroad from barracks, clad in the "walking-out" finery of shell-jacket and overalls,
with the jingle of spurs and effort at the true Cavalry swagger, or rather the first attempt
at a walk abroad, for the expedition had ended disastrously ere well begun. Unable to shake
off his admirer, Trooper Herbert Hawker, Dam had just passed the Main Guard and main gates
in the company of Herbert, and the two recruits had encountered the Adjutant and saluted with
the utmost smartness and respect....

"What the Purple Hell's that thing?" had drawled the Adjutant thereupon--pointing his whip
at Trooper Henry Hawker, whose trap-like mouth incontinent fell open with astonishment. "It's
got up in an imitation of the uniform of the Queen's Greys, I do believe!... It's not a rag
doll either.... It's a God-forsaken undertaker's mute in a red and black shroud with a cake-tin
at the back of its turnip head and a pair of chemises on its ugly hands.... Sergeant of the
Guard!... Here!"

"Sir?" and a salute of incredible precision from the Sergeant of the Guard.

"What the name of the Devil's old Aunt is this thing? What are you on Guard for? To write hymns
and scare crows--or to allow decayed charwomen to stroll out of barracks in a dem parody of
your uniform? Look at her! Could turn round in the jacket without taking it off. Room for both
legs in one of the overalls. Cap on his beastly neck. Gloves like a pair of ... Get inside
you!... Take the thing in with a pair of tongs and bury it where it won't contaminate the dung-pits.
Burn it! Shoot it! Drown it! D'ye hear?... And then I'll put you under arrest for letting it
pass...."

It had been a wondrously deflated and chapfallen Herbert that had slunk back to the room of
the reserve troop, and perhaps his reputation as a mighty bruiser had never stood him in so
good stead as when it transpired that an Order had been promulgated that no recruit should
leave barracks during the first three months of his service, and that the names of all such
embryos should be posted in the Main Guard for the information of the Sergeant....

Memories ...!

His first march behind the Band to Church....

The first Review and March Past....

His first introduction to bread-and-lard....

His wicked carelessness in forgetting--or attempting to disregard--the law of the drinking-troughs.
"So long as one horse has his head down no horse is to go." There had been over a score drinking
and he had moved off while one dipsomaniac was having a last suck.

His criminal carelessness in not removing his sword and leaving it in the Guard-room, when
going on sentry after guard-mounting--"getting the good Sergeant into trouble, too, and making
it appear that he had been equally criminally careless ".

The desperate quarrel between Hawker and Bone as to whether the 10th Hussars were called the
"Shiny Tenth" because of their general material and spiritual brilliance, or the "Chainy Tenth"
because their Officers wore pouch-belts of gold chain-mail.... The similar one between Buttle
and Smith as to the reason of a brother regiment being known as "The Virgin Mary's Body-guard,"
and their reluctant acceptance of Dam's dictum that they were both wrong, it having been earned
by them in the service of a certain Maria Theresa, a lady unknown to Messrs. Buttle and Smith....
Dam had found himself developing into a positive bully in his determination to prevent senseless
quarrelling, senseless misconduct, senseless humourless foulness, senseless humourless blasphemy,
and all that unnecessary, avoidable ugliness that so richly augmented the unavoidable....

Memories ...!

Sitting throughout compulsory church, cursing and mutinous of heart, because after spending
several hours of the Day of Rest in burnishing and pipe-claying, blacking and shining ("Sunday
spit an' polish"), he was under orders for sharp punishment--because at the last moment his
tunic had been fouled by a passing pigeon! When would the Authorities realize that soldiers
are still men, still Englishmen (even if they have, by becoming soldiers, lost their birthright
of appeal to the Law of the Land, though not their amenability to its authority), and cease
to make the Blessed Sabbath a curse, the worst day of the week, and to herd angry, resentful
soldiers into church to blaspheme with politely pious faces? Oh, British, British, Pharisees
and Humbugs--make Sunday a curse, and drive the soldier into church to do his cursing--make
it the chief day of dress "crimes" and punishments, as well as the busiest day, and force the
soldier into church to Return Thanks....

The only man in the world flung into church as though into jail for punishment! Shout it in
the Soldier's ear, "You are not a Man, you are a Slave," on Sundays also, on Sundays louder
than usual.... And when he has spent his Sunday morning in extra hard labour, in suffering
the indignity of being compulsorily marched to church, and very frequently of having been punished
because it is a good day on which a Sergeant may decide that he is not sufficiently cleanly
shaved or his boots of minor effulgence--then let him sit and watch his hot Sunday dinner grow
stone cold before the Colonel stalks through the room, asks a perfunctory question, and he
is free to fall to.

"O Day of Rest and Gladness,
 O Day of Joy most Bright...."

Yah!

A pity some of the energy that went to making the annual 20,000 military "criminals" out of
honest, law-abiding, well-intending men could not go to harassing the Canteen instead of the
soldier (whom the Canteen swindles right and left, and whence he gets salt-watery beer, and
an "ounce" of tobacco that will go straight into his pipe in one "fill"--no need to wrap it
up, thank you) and discovering how handsome fortunes, as well as substantial "illegal gratifications,"
are made out of his much-stoppaged one-and-tuppence-a-week.

Did the Authorities really yearn to discourage enlistment and to encourage desertion and "crime"?
When would they realize that making "crimes," and manufacturing "criminals" from honest men,
is not discipline, is not making soldiers, is not improving the Army--is not common ordinary
sanity and sense? When would they break their dull, unimaginative, hide-bound--no, tape-bound--souls
from the ideas that prevailed before (and murdered) the Crimean Army.... The Army is not now
the sweepings of the jails, and more in need of the wild-beast tamer than of the kind firm
teacher, as once it was. How long will they continue to suppose that you make a fine fighting-man,
and a self-reliant, intelligent soldier, by treating him as a depraved child, as a rightless
slave, as a mindless automaton, and by encouraging the public (whom he protects) to regard
him as a low criminal ruffian to be classed with the broad-arrowed convict, and to be excluded
from places where any loafing rotten lout may go.... When would a lawyer-ridden Army Council
realize that there is a trifle of significance in the fact that there are four times as many
soldier suicides as there are civilian, and that the finest advertisement for the dwindling
Army is the soldier. To think that sober men should, with one hand spend vast sums in lying
advertisements for the Army, and with the other maintain a system that makes the soldier on
furlough reply to the question "Shall I enlist, mate?" with the words "Not while you got a
razor to cut yer throat".... Ah, well, common sense would reach even the Army some day, and
the soldier be treated and disciplined as a man and a citizen--and perhaps, when it did, and
the soldier gave a better description of his life, the other citizen, the smug knave who despises
him while he shelters behind him, will become less averse from having his own round shoulders
straightened, his back flattened and his muscles developed as he takes his part in the first
fundamental elementary duty of a citizen--preparation for the defence of hearth and home....
Lucille! Well ... Thank God she could not see him and know his life. If she had any kindness
left for him she would suffer to watch him eating well-nigh uneatable food, grooming a horse,
sweeping a stable, polishing trestle-legs with blacklead, scrubbing floors, sleeping on damp
straw, carrying coals, doing scullion-work for uneducated roughs, being brow-beaten, bullied,
and cursed by them in tight-lipped silence--not that these things troubled him personally--the
less idle leisure for thought the better, and no real man minds physical hardship--there is
no indignity in labour per se any more than there is dignity....

"'Ere, Maffewson, you bone-idle, moonin' waster," bawled the raucous voice of Lance-Corporal
Prag, and Dam's soaring spirit fell to earth.

The first officer to whom Trooper Matthewson gave his smart respectful salute as he stood on
sentry-duty was the Major, the Second-in-Command of the Queen's Greys, newly rejoined from
furlough,--a belted Earl, famous for his sporting habit of riding always and everywhere without
a saddle--who, as a merry subaltern, had been Lieutenant Lord Ochterlonie and Adjutant of the
Queen's Greys at Bimariabad in India. There, he had, almost daily, taken upon his knee, shoulder,
saddle, or dog-cart, the chubby son of his polo and pig-sticking exemplar, Colonel Matthew
Devon de Warrenne.

The sentry had a dim idea that he had seen the Major somewhere before.

Finding himself free for the afternoon, and the proud possessor of several shillings, "Trooper
Matthewson" decided to walk to Folkestone, attend an attractively advertised concert on the
pier, and then indulge in an absolutely private meal in some small tea-room or confectioner's shop.

Arrayed in scarlet shell-jacket, white-striped overalls, and pill-box cap, he started forth,
carrying himself as though exceeding proud to be what he was, and wondering whether a swim
in the sea, which should end somewhere between Shorncliffe and Dieppe (and end his troubles
too), would not be a better pastime.

Arrived at the Folkestone pier, Dam approached the ticket office at the entrance and tendered
his shilling to the oily-curled, curly-nosed young Jew who sat at the receipt of custom.

"Clear out o' this," said Levi Solomonson.

"I want a ticket for the concert," said Dam, not understanding.

"Would you like a row o' stalls to sprawl your dirty carcase on?... Outside, I tell yer, Tommy
Atkins, this ain't a music-'all nor yet a pub. Soldiers not ''alf-price to cheap seats' nor
yet full-price--nor yet for ten pound a time. Out yer go, lobster."

The powerful hand of Damocles de Warrenne approached the window and, for a second, Mr. Levi
Solomonson was in danger--but only for a second. Dam was being well-broken-in, and quickly
realized that he was no longer a free British citizen entitled to the rights of such so long
as he behaved as a citizen should, but a mere horrible defender of those of his countrymen,
who were averse from the toils and possible dangers of self-defence. It was brought home to
him, then and there, with some clearness, that the noble Britons who (perhaps) "never never
will be slaves," have a fine and high contempt for those whose life-work is to save them from
that distressing position; that the noble Briton, while stoutly (and truly Britishly) refusing
to hear of universal service and the doing by each man of his first duty to the State, is informed
with a bitter loathing of those who, for wretched hire and under wretched conditions, perform
those duties for him. Dam did not mind, though he did not enjoy, doing housemaid's work in
the barrack-room, scrubbing floors, blackleading iron table-legs and grates, sweeping, dusting,
and certain other more unpleasant menial tasks; he did not mind, though he did not like, "mucking-out"
stables and scavenging; he could take at their proper value the insults of ignorant boors set
in authority over him; he could stand, if not enjoy, the hardships of the soldier's life--but
he did not see why his doing his duty in that particular sphere--an arduous, difficult, and
frequently dangerous sphere--should earn him the united insult of the united public! Why should
an educated and cultured man, a gentleman in point of fact, be absolutely prohibited from hearing
a "classical" concert because he wore the Queen's uniform and did that most important and necessary
work which the noble Briton is too slack-baked, too hypocritically genteel, too degenerate,
to perform, each man for himself?

In a somewhat bitter frame of mind the unfortunate young man strolled along the Leas and seated
himself on a public bench, honestly wondering as he did so, whether he were sufficiently a
member of the great and glorious public to have a right to do it while wearing the disgraceful
and disgracing garb of a Trooper of the Queen.... Members of that great and glorious public
passed him by in rapid succession. Narrow-chested youths of all classes, and all crying aloud
in slack-lipped silence for the drill-sergeant to teach them how to stand and walk; for the
gymnasium-instructor to make them, what they would never be, men; for some one to give them
an aim and an ideal beyond cigarettes, socks, and giggling "gels" or "gals" or "garls" or "gyurls"
or "gurrls" according to their social sphere. Vast-stomached middle-aged men of all classes,
and all crying aloud in fat-lipped silence of indulgence, physical sloth, physical decay before
physical prime should have been reached, of mental, moral, and physical decadence from the
great Past incredible, and who would one and all, if asked, congratulate themselves on living
in these glorious modern times of 'igh civilization and not in the dark, ignorant days of old.

(Decidedly a bitter young man, this.)

Place Mister Albert Pringle, Insurance Agent; Mister Peter Snagget, Grocer; Mister Alphonso
Pumper, Rate Collector; Mister Bill 'Iggins, Publican; Mister Walter Weed, Clerk; Mister Jeremiah
Ramsmouth, Local Preacher; Mr. 'Ookey Snagg, Loafer; Mister William Guppy, Potman--place them
beside Hybrias, Goat-herd; Damon, Shepherd; Phydias, Writer; Nicarchus, Ploughman; Balbus,
Bricklayer; Glaucus, Potter; Caius, Carter; Marcus, Weaver; Aeneas, Bronze-worker; Antonius,
Corn-seller; Canidius, Charioteer--and then talk of the glorious modern times of high civilization
and the dark ignorant days of old!...

And as he sat musing thus foolishly and pessimistically, who should loom upon his horizon but--of
all people in the world--the Haddock, the fishy, flabby, stale, unprofitable Haddock! Most
certainly Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like this. A beautiful confection of pearly-grey,
pearl-buttoned flannel draped his droopy form, a pearly-grey silk tie, pearl-pinned, encircled
his lofty collar, pearly-grey silk socks spanned the divorcing gap 'twixt beautiful grey kid
shoes and correctest trousers, a pearly-grey silk handkerchief peeped knowingly from the cuff
of his pearly-grey silk shirt by his pearly-grey kid glove, and his little cane was of grey
lacquer, and of pearl handle. One could almost have sworn that a pearl-grey smile adorned the
scarce-shut mouth of the beautiful modern product of education and civilization, to carry on
the so well-devised colour-scheme to the pearly-grey grey-ribboned soft hat.

The Haddock's mind wandered not in empty places, but wrestled sternly with the problem--would
it not have been better, after all, perhaps, to have worn the pearly-grey spats (with the pearl
buttons) instead of relying on the pearly-grey socks alone? When one sat down and modestly
protruded an elegant foot as one crossed one's legs and gently drew up one's trouser (lest
a baggy knee bring black shame), one could display both--the spat itself, and, above it, the
sock. Of course! To the passer-by, awe-inspired, admiring, stimulated, would then have been
administered the double shock and edification. While gratefully observing the so-harmonizing
grey spat and grey shoe he would have noted the Ossa of grey silk sock piled upon that Pelion
of ultra-fashionable foot-joy! Yes. He had acted hastily and had erred and strayed from the
Perfect Way--and a cloud, at first no bigger than a continent or two, arose and darkened his
mental sky.

But what of the cloud that settled upon him, black as that of the night's Plutonian shore,
a cloud much bigger than the Universe, when a beastly, awful, ghastly, common private soldier
arose from a seat--a common seat for which you do not pay a penny and show your selectitude--arose,
I say, from a beastly common seat and SEIZED HIM BY THE ARM and remarked in horrible, affected,
mocking tones:--

"And how's the charming little Haddock, the fourpenny, common breakfast Haddock?"

Yes, in full sight of the Leas of Folkestone, and the nobility, gentry, shopmen, nurse-girls,
suburban yachtsmen, nuts, noisettes, bath-chairmen and all the world of rank and fashion, a
common soldier took the pearly-grey arm of the Haddon Berners as he took the air and walked
abroad to give the public a treat. And proved to be his shameful, shameless, disgraced, disgraceful,
cowardly relative, Damocles de Warrenne!

The Haddock reeled, but did not fall.

On catching sight of the beautiful young man, Dam's first impulse was to spring up and flee,
his second to complete the work of Mr. Levi Solomonson of the pier concert and see for himself,
once again, how he was regarded by the eyes of all right-minded and respectable members of
society, including those of a kinsman with whom he had grown up.

Yes, in his bitterness of soul, and foolish youthful revolt against Fate, he was attracted
by the idea of claiming acquaintance with the superb Haddock in his triumphant progress, take
him by the arm, and solemnly march him the whole length of the Leas! He would, by Jove! He did.

Confronting the resplendent languid loafer, he silkily observed, as he placed his cutting-whip
beneath his left arm and extended his white cotton-gloved right hand:--

"And how's the charming little Haddock, the fourpenny, common breakfast Haddock?"

Had it been Ormonde Delorme, any friend of Monksmead days, any school or Sandhurst acquaintance,
had it been any other relative, had it been Lucille, he would have fled for his life, he would
have seen his hand paralysed ere he would have extended it, he would have been struck dumb
rather than speak, he would have died before he would have inflicted upon them the indignity
of being seen in the company of a common soldier. But the Haddock! 'twould do the Haddock a
world of good; the Haddock who had mocked him as he fought for sanity and life on the lawn
at Monksmead--the Haddock who "made love" to Lucille.

The Haddock affected not to see the hand.

"I--er--don't--ah--know you, surely, do I?" he managed to mumble as he backed away and turned
to escape.

"Probably not, dear Haddock," replied the embittered desperate Dam, "but you're going to. We're
going for a walk together."

"Are you--ah--dwunk, fellow? Do you suppose I walk with--ah--soldiers?"

"I don't, my Fish, but you're going to now--if I have to carry you. And if I have to do that
I'll slap you well, when I put you down!"

"I'll call a policeman and give you in charge if you dare molest me. What do you--ah--desire?
Money?... If you come to my hotel this evening--" and the hapless young man was swung round,
his limp thin arm tucked beneath a powerful and mighty one, and he was whirled along at five
miles an hour in the direction of the pier, gasping, feebly struggling, and a sight to move
the High Gods to pity.

"To the pier, my Haddock, and then back to the turnpike gate, and if you let a yell, or signal
a policeman, I'll twist your little neck. Fancy our Haddock in a vulgar street row with a common
soldier and in the Police Court! Step it out, you worm!"

Then the agonized Haddock dropped pretence.

"Oh, Dam, I'm awf'ly sorry. I apologize, old chap. Let up--I say--this is awful.... Good God,
here's Lady Plonk, the Mayor's wife!"

"You shall introduce me, Lovely One--but no, we mustn't annoy ladies. You must not go trying
to introduce your low companions--nay, relations--to Lady Plonkses. Step out--and look happy."

"Dam--for God's sake, let me go! I didn't know you, old chap. I swear I didn't. The disgrace
will kill me. I'll give you--"

"Look here, wee Fish, you offer me money again and I'll--I'll undress you and run away with
your clothes. I will, upon my soul."

"I shall call to this policeman," gasped the Haddock.

"And appear with your low-class relation in Court? Not you, Haddock. I'd swear you were my
twin brother, and that you wouldn't pay me the four pence you borrowed of me last week."

And the cruel penance was inflicted to the last inch. Near the end the Haddock groaned: "Here's
Amelia Harringport--Oh! my God," and Dam quickly turned his face unto the South and gazed at
the fair land of France. He remembered that General Harringport dwelt in these parts.

At the toll-gate Dam released the perspiration-soaked wretch, who had suffered the torments
of the damned, and who seemed to have met every man and woman whom he knew in the world as
he paraded the promenade hanging lovingly to the arm of a common soldier! He thought of suicide
and shuddered at the bare idea.

"Well, I'm awf'ly sorry to have to run away and leave you now, dear Haddock. I might have taken
you to all the pubs in Folkestone if I'd had time. I might have come to your hotel and dined
with you. You will excuse me, won't you? I must go now. I've got to wash up the tea things
and clean the Sergeant's boots," said Dam, cruelly wringing the Haddock's agonized soft hand,
and, with a complete and disconcerting change, added, "And if you breathe a word about having
seen me, at Monksmead, or tell Lucille, I'll seek you out, my Haddock, and--we will hold converse
with thee". Then he strode away, cursing himself for a fool, a cad, and a deteriorated, demoralized
ruffian. Anyhow, the Haddock would not mention the appalling incident and give him away.

Nemesis followed him.

Seeking a quiet shop in a back street where he could have the long-desired meal in private,
he came to a small taxidermist's, glanced in as he passed, and beheld the pride and joy of
the taxidermist's heart--a magnificent and really well-mounted boa-constrictor, and fell shrieking,
struggling, and screaming in the gutter.

That night Damocles de Warrenne, ill, incoherent, and delirious, passed in a cell, on a charge
of drunk and disorderly and disgracing the Queen's uniform.

Mr. Levi Solomonson had not disgraced it, of course.

"If we were not eating this excellent bread-and-dripping and drinking this vile tea, what would
you like to be eating and drinking, Matthewson?" asked Trooper Nemo (formerly Aubrey Roussac
d'Aubigny of Harrow and Trinity).

"Oh, ... a little real turtle," said Dam, "just a lamina of sole frite, a trifle of vol an
vent à la financière, a breast of partridge, a mite of paté de fois gras, a peach à la Melba,
the roe of a bloater, and a few fat grapes--"

"'Twould do. 'Twould pass," sighed Trooper Burke, and added, "I would suggest a certain Moselle
I used to get at the Byculla Club in Bombay, and a wondrous fine claret that spread a ruby
haze of charm o'er my lunch at the Yacht Club of the same fair city. A 'Mouton Rothschild something,'
which was cheap at nine rupees a small bottle on the morrow of a good day on the Mahaluxmi
Racecourse." (It was strongly suspected that Trooper Burke had worn a star on his shoulder-strap
in those Indian days.)

"It's an awful shame we can't all emerge from the depths and run up to Town to breathe the
sweet original atmosphere for just one night before we leave old England," put in Trooper Punch
Peerson (son of a noble lord) who would at that moment have been in the Officers' Mess but
for a congenital weakness in spelling and a dislike of mathematics. "Pity we can't get 'leaf,'
and do ourselves glorious at the Carlton, and 'afterwards'. We could change at my Governor's
place into borrowed, stolen, and hired evening-kit, paint the village as scarlet as Sin or
a trooper's jacket, and then come home, like the Blackbird, to tea. I am going, and if I can't
get 'leaf' I shall return under the bread in the rations-cart. Money's the root of all (successful)
evil."

Trooper Punch Peerson was a born leader of men, a splendid horseman and soldier, and he had
the Army in his ardent, gallant blood and bones; but how shall a man head a cavalry charge
or win the love and enthusiastic obedience of men and horses when he is weak in spelling and
has a dislike of mathematics?

However, he was determined to follow in the footsteps of his ancestors, to serve his country
in spite of her, and his Commission was certain and near. Meanwhile he endeavoured to be a
first-class trooper, had his uniform made of officers' materials in Bond Street by his father's
famous tailor, and "got the stick" with ease and frequency.

"We're not all gilded popinjays (nor poppin' bottles)," observed a young giant who called himself
Adam Goate, and had certainly been one in the days when he was Eugene Featherstonthwaite. "All
very well for you to come to the surface and breathe, seeing that you'll be out of it soon.
You're having nothing but a valuable experience and a hardening. You're going through the mill.
We've got to live in it. What's the good of our stirring everything up again? Dam-silly of
a skinned eel to grow another skin, to be skinned again.... No, 'my co-mates and brothers in
exile,' what I say is--you can get just as drunk on 'four-'arf' as on champagne, and a lot
cheaper. Ask my honourable friend, Bear."

(Trooper Bear gave a realistic, but musical hiccup.)

"Also, to the Philosopher, bread-and-dripping is as interesting and desirable prog as the voluble-varied
heterogeny of the menu at the Carlton or the Ritz--'specially when you've no choice."

"Hear, hear," put in Dam.

"Goatey ol' Goate!" said Trooper Bear with impressive solemnity. "Give me your hand, Philossiler.
I adore dripping. I'ss a (hic) mystery. (No, I don' want both hands," as Goate offered his
right to Bear's warm embrace.) I'm a colliseur of Dripping. I understan' it. I write odes to
it. Yesh. A basin of dripping is like a Woman. 'Strornarillily. You never know what's beneath
fair surface.... Below a placid, level, unrevealing surface there may be--nothing ... and there
may be a rich deposit of glorious, stimulating, piquant essence."

"Oh, shut up, Bear, and don't be an Ass," implored Trooper Burke (formerly Desmond Villiers
FitzGerald) ... "but I admit, all the same, there's lots of worse prog in the Officers' Mess
than a crisp crust generously bedaubed with the rich jellified gravy that (occasionally) lurks
like rubies beneath the fatty soil of dripping."

"Sound plan to think so, anyway," agreed Trooper Little (ci devant Man About Town and the Honourable
Bertie Le Grand). "Reminds me of a proverb I used to hear in Alt Heidelberg, 'What I have in
my hand is best'."

"Qui' sho," murmured Trooper Bear with a seraphic smile, "an' wha' I have in my 'place of departed
spirits,' my tummy, is better. Glor'us mixshure. Earned an honest penny sheven sheparate times
cleaning the 'coutrements of better men ... 'an look at me for shevenpence' ..." and he slept
happily on Dam's shoulder.

In liquor, Trooper Bear was, if possible, gentler, kinder, and of sweeter disposition than
when sober; wittier, more hopelessly lovable and disarming. These eight men--the "gentlemen-rankers"
of the Queen's Greys, made it a point of honour to out-Tommy "Tommy" as troopers, and, when
in his company, to show a heavier cavalry-swagger, a broader accent, a quiffier "quiff," a
cuttier cutty-pipe, a smarter smartness; to groom a horse better, to muck out a stall better,
to scrub a floor better, to spring more smartly to attention or to a disagreeable "fatigue,"
and to set an example of Tomminess from turning out on an Inspection Parade to waxing a moustache.

Trooper Bear professed to specialize as a model in the carrying of liquor "like a man and a
soldier". When by themselves, they made it a point of honour to behave and speak as though
in the clubs to which they once belonged, to eat with washen hands and ordered attire, to behave
at table and elsewhere with that truest of consideration that offends no man willingly by mannerism,
appearance, word or act, and which is the whole Art of Gentility.

They carefully avoided any appearance of exclusiveness, but sought every legitimate opportunity
of united companionship, and formed a "mess" of eight at a table which just held that number,
and on a couple of benches each of which exactly fulfilled the slang expression "room for four
Dragoons on a form".

It was their great ambition to avoid the reproach of earning the soubriquet "gentleman-ranker,"
a term that too often, and too justly, stinks in the nostrils of officer, non-commissioned
officer, and man (for, as a rule, the "gentleman-ranker" is a complete failure as a gentleman
and a completer one as a ranker).

To prove a rule by a remarkably fine exception, these eight were among the very smartest and
best troopers of one of the smartest and best Corps in the world--and to Damocles de Warrenne,
their "Society of the Knights of the dirty Square Table" was a Rock and a Salvation in the
midst of a howling sea of misery--a cool pool in a searing branding Hell.

Trooper Bear's brief nap appeared to have revived him wonderfully.

"Let us, like the Hosts of Midian, prowl around this happy Sabbeth eve, my dear," quoth he
to Dam, "and, like wise virgins, up and smite them, when we meet the Red-Caps.... No, I'm getting
confused. It's they up and smite us, when we've nothing to tip them.... I feel I could be virtuous
in your company--since you never offer beer to the (more or less) fatherless and widowed--and
since I'm stony. How did you work that colossal drunk, Matty, when you came home on a stretcher
and the Red-Caps said you 'was the first-classest delirious-trimmings as ever was, aseein'
snakes somethink 'orrible,' and in no wise to be persuaded 'as 'ow there wasn't one underyer
bloomin' foot the 'ole time'. Oh you teetotallers!"

Dam shuddered and paled. "Yes, let's go for as long a walk as we can manage, and get as far
from this cursed place as time allows," he replied.

His hair was still short and horribly hacked from the prison-crop he had had as a preliminary
to "168 hours cells," for "drunk and disorderly".

"I'll come too," announced the Honourable Bertie.

"Yes," chimed in Trooper Adam Goate, "let's go and gladden the eyes, if not the hearts of the
nurse-maids of Folkestone."

"Bless their nurse-maidenly hearts," murmured Trooper Bear. "One made honourable proposals
of marriage to me, quite recently, in return for my catching the runaway hat of her young charge....
Come on." And in due course the four derelicts set forth with a uniformity of step and action
that corresponded with their uniformity of dress.

"Let's take the Lower Road," said Dam, as they reached the western limit of the front at Folkestone.
"I fear we rather contaminate the pure social air of the Upper Road and the fashionable promenade."

"Where every prospect pleases and only man, in the Queen's uniform, is vile," observed Trooper
Bear.

Dam remembered afterwards that it was he who sought the quiet Lower Road--and he had good reason
to remember it. For suddenly, a fashionably dressed and beautiful young girl, sitting alone
in a passing private victoria, stood up, called "Stop! Stop!" to the coachman, and ere the
carriage well came to a standstill, sprang out, rushed up to the double file of soldiers, and
flung her arms around the neck of the outside one of the front rank.

With a cry of "Oh, Dam! Oh, Dammy!"--a cry that mightily scandalized a serious-minded policeman
who stood monumentally at the corner--she kissed him again and again!

Troopers Bear, Goate, and Little, halting not in their stride, glancing not unto the right
hand nor unto the left hand, speaking no word, and giving no sign of surprise, marched on in
perfect silence, until Trooper Bear observed to the world in general "The lady was not swearing.
His name must be Dam--short for Damon or Pythias or Iphigenia or something which we may proceed
to forget.... Poor old chappie--no wonder he's taking to secret drinking. I should drink, myself.
Poor chap!" and Trooper Goate, heaving a sympathetic sigh, murmured also "Poor chap!"

But Trooper Little, once the Hon. Bertie Le Grand, thought "Poor lady!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The heart of Damocles de Warrenne bounded within him, stood still, and then seemed like to burst.

"Oh, Lucille! Oh, darling!" he groaned, as he kissed her fiercely and then endeavoured to thrust
her from him. "Jump into your carriage quickly. Lucille--Don't ... Here ...! Not here.... People
are looking ... You ...! A common soldier.... Let me go. Quick.... Your carriage.... Some one
may--"

"Let you go, darling ...! Now I have found you.... If you say another word I'll serve you as
you served the Haddock. I'll hang on to your arm right along the Leas. I'll hang round your
neck and scream if you try to run away. This is poetic justice, darling. Now you know how our
Haddock felt. No--I won't leave go of your sleeve. Where shall we go, dearest darling Dammy.
Dare you drive up and down the Front with me in Amelia Harringport's sister's young man's mother's
victoria? oh, my darling Dam...." and Lucille burst into happy tears.

"Go up that winding path and I'll follow in a minute. There will be secluded seats."

"And you'll bolt directly I leave go of you?... I--"

"No, darling, God knows I should if I were a man, but I can't, I can't. Oh, Lucille!"

"Stay here," cried the utterly fearless, unashamed girl to the unspeakably astounded coachman
of the mother of the minor Canon who had the felicity of being Amelia Harringport's sister's
young man, and she strode up the pathway that wound, tree-shaded, along the front of the gently
sloping cliff.

In the utter privacy of a small seat-enclosing, bush-hidden half-cave, Damocles de Warrenne
crushed Lucille to his breast as she again flung her arms around his neck.

"Oh, Lucille, how could you expose yourself to scandal like that; I ought to be hung for not
taking to my heels as you came, but I could not believe my eyes, I thought I was going mad
again," and he shivered.

"What should I have cared if every soul in the world who knows me had arranged himself and
herself in rows and ranks to get a good view? I'd have done the same if Grumper had been beside
me in the carriage. What is the rest of the World to me, beside you, darling?... Oh, your poor
hair, and what is that horrid scar, my dearest? And you are a '2 Q.G.' are you, and how soon
may you marry? I'm going to disappear from Monksmead, now, just like you did, darling, and
I'm coming here and I'm going to be a soldier's wife. Can I live with you in your house in
barracks, Dammy, or must I live outside, and you come home directly your drill and things are
finished?"

Dam groaned aloud in hopeless bitterness of soul.

"Lucille--listen," said he. "I earn one-and tuppence a day. I may not marry. If you were a
factory-girl or a coster-woman I would not drag you down so. Apart from that, I am unfit to
marry any decent woman. I am--what you know I am.... I have--fits. I am not--sound--normal--I
may go m...."

"Don't be a pure priceless Ass, darling. You are my own splendid hero--and I am going to marry
you, if I have to be a factory-girl or a coster-woman, and I am going to live either with you
or near you. You want looking after, my own boy. I shall have some money, though, when I am
of age. When may I run away from Monksmead, darling?"

"Lucille," groaned the miserable man. "Do you think that the sight of you in the mire in which
I wallow would make me happier? Can't you realize that I'm ruined and done--disgraced and smashed?
Lucille, I am not sane at times.... The SNAKE ... Do you love me, Lucille? Then if so, I beg
and implore you to forget me, to leave me alone, to wait awhile and then marry Delorme or some
sane, wholesome man--who is neither a coward nor a lunatic nor an epileptic. Lucille, you double
and treble my misery. I can't bear it if I see you. Oh, why didn't you forget me and do the
right and proper thing? I am unfit to touch you! I am a damned scoundrel to be here now," and
leaping up he fled like a maddened horse, bounded down the slope, sprang into the road, nor
ceased to run till he fell exhausted, miles away from the spot whereon he had suffered as he
believed few men had done before.

And thus and thus we women live! With none to question, none to give The Nay or Aye, the Aye
or Nay That might smoothe half our cares away. O, strange indeed! And sad to know We pitch
too high and doing so, Intent and eager not to fall, We miss the low clear note of call. Why
is it so? Are we indeed So like unto the shaken reed? Of such poor clay? Such puny strength?
That e'en throughout the breadth and length Of purer vision's stern domain We bend to serve
and serve in vain? To some, indeed, strange power is lent To stand content. Love, heaven-sent,
(For things or high or pure or rare) Shows likest God, makes Life less bare. And, ever and
anon there stray In faint far-reaching virèlay The songs of angels, Heav'nward-found, Of little
children, earthward-bound.

A. L. WREN.

CHAPTER X.

MUCH ADO ABOUT ALMOST NOTHING--A TROOPER.

Mr. Ormonde Delorme, Second Lieutenant of the 34th Lancers, sat in his quarters at Aldershot,
reading and re-reading with mingled feelings a letter from the woman he loved.

It is one thing to extract a promise from The Woman that she will turn to you for help if ever
your help should be needed (knowing that there could be no greater joy than to serve her at
any cost whatsoever, though it led to death or ruin), but it is quite another thing when that
help is invited for the benefit of the successful rival!

To go to the world's end for Lucille were a very small matter to Ormonde Delorme--but to go
across the road for the man who had won her away, was not.

For Dam had won her away from him, Delorme considered, inasmuch as he had brought him to Monksmead,
time after time, had seen him falling in love with Lucille, had received his confidences, and
spoken no warning word. Had he said but "No poaching, Delorme," nothing more would have been
necessary; he would have kept away thenceforth, and smothered the flame ere it became a raging
and consuming fire. No, de Warrenne had served him badly in not telling him plainly that there
was an understanding between him and his cousin, in letting him sink more and more deeply over
head and ears in love, in letting him go on until he proposed to Lucille and learnt from her
that while she liked him better than any man in the world but one--she did not love him, and
that, frankly, yes, she did love somebody else, and it was hopeless for him to hope....

He read the letter again:--

  "MY DEAR ORMONDE,

  "This is a begging letter, and I should
  loathe to write it, under the circumstances, to any
  man but such a one as you. For I am going to
  ask a great deal of you and to appeal to that nobleness
  of character for which I have always admired
  you and which made you poor Dam's hero from
  Lower School days at Wellingborough until you left
  Sandhurst (and, alas! quarrelled with him--or
  rather with his memory--about me). That was a
  sad blow to me, and I tell you again as I told you
  before, Dam had not the faintest notion that I cared
  for him and would not have told me that he cared
  for me had I not shown it. Your belief that he
  didn't trouble to warn you because he had me safe
  is utterly wrong, absurd, and unjust.

  "When you did me the great honour and paid
  me the undeserved and tremendous compliment of
  asking me to marry you, and I told you that I
  could not, and why I could not, I never dreamed
  that Dam could care for me in that way, and I
  knew that I should never marry any one at all
  unless he did.

  "And on the same occasion, Ormonde, you
  begged me to promise that if ever you could serve
  me in any way, I would ask for your help. You
  were a dear romantic boy then, Ormonde, and I
  loved you in a different way, and cried all night
  that you and I could not be friends without thought
  of love, and I most solemnly promised that I would
  turn to you if I ever needed help that you could give.
  (Alas, I thought to myself then that nobody in the
  world could do anything for me that Dam could
  not do, and that I should never need help from
  others while he lived.)

  "I want your help, Ormonde, and I want it for
  Dam--and me.

  "You have, of course, heard some garbled scandal
  about his being driven away from home and cut off
  from Sandhurst by grandfather. I need not ask if
  you have believed ill of him and I need not say he
  is absolutely innocent of any wrong or failure whatever.
  He is not an effeminate coward, he is as
  brave as a lion. He is a splendid hero, Ormonde,
  and I want you to simply strangle and kill any man
  who says a word to the contrary.

  "When he left home, he enlisted, and Haddon
  Berners saw him in uniform at Folkestone where
  he had gone from Canterbury (cricket week) to
  see Amelia Harringport's gang. Amelia whose
  sister is to be the Reverend Mrs. Canon Mellifle at
  Folkestone, you know, met the wretched Haddon
  being rushed along the front by a soldier and
  nearly died at the sight--she declares he was
  weeping!

  "Directly she told me I guessed at once that he
  had met Dam and either insulted or cut him, and
  that poor Dam, in his bitter humour and self-loathing
  had used his own presence as a punishment
  and had made the Haddock walk with him!
  Imagine the company of Damocles de Warrenne
  being anything but an ennobling condescension!
  Fancy Dam's society a horrible injury and disgrace!
  To a thing like Haddon Berners!

  "Well, I simply haunted Folkestone after that,
  and developed a love for Amelia Harringport and
  her brothers that surprised them--hypocrite that I
  am! (but I was punished when they talked slightingly
  of Dam and she sneered at the man whom
  she had shamelessly pursued when all was well
  with him. She 'admires' Haddon now.)

  "At last I met him on one of my week-end visits--on
  a Sunday evening it was--and I simply flew
  at him in the sight of all respectable, prayer-book-displaying,
  before-Church-parading, well-behaved
  Folkestone, and kissed him nearly to death....
  And can you believe a woman could be such a fool,
  Ormonde--while carefully noting the '2 Q.G.'
  on his shoulder-straps, I never thought to find out
  his alias--for of course he hides his identity, thinking
  as he does, poor darling boy, that he has brought
  eternal disgrace on an honoured name--a name that
  appears twice on the rolls of the V.C. records.

  "Ormonde, were it not that it would increase his
  misery and agony of mind I would run away from
  Monksmead, take a room near the Queen's Greys
  barracks, and haunt the main gates until I saw him
  again. He should then tell me how to communicate
  with him, or I would hang about there till he did.
  I'd marry him 'off the strength' and live (till I am
  'of age') by needlework if he would have me.
  But, of course, he'd never understand that I'd be
  happier, and a better woman, in a Shorncliffe
  lodging, as a soldier's wife, than ever I shall be here
  in this dreary Monksmead--until he is restored and
  re-habilitated (is that the word? I mean--comes
  into his own as a brave and noble gentleman who
  never did a mean or cowardly action in his life).

  "And he is so thin and unhappy looking, Ormonde,
  and his poor hands are in such a state
  and his beautiful hair is all hacked about and done
  like a soldier's, all short except for a long piece
  brushed down his forehead and round to his cap--oh,
  dreadful ... and he has a scar on his face!
  No wonder Amelia never recognized him. Oh, do
  help me, Ormonde. I must find out how to address
  him. I dare not let them know there is a D. de
  Warrenne in the regiment--and he'd never get it
  either--he's probably Smith or Jones or Robinson
  now. If some horrid Sergeant called out 'Trooper
  D. de Warrenne,' when distributing letters, Dam
  would never answer to the name he thinks he has
  eternally disgraced, and disgrace it further by dragging
  it in the mire of the ranks. How can people
  be such snobs? Isn't a good private a better man
  than a bad officer? Why should there be any
  'taint' about serving your country in any capacity?

  "How can I find him, Ormonde, unless you help
  me? I could pay a servant to hang about the
  barracks until he recognized Dam--but that would
  be horrible for the poor boy. He'd deny it and say
  the man was mad, I expect--and it would be most
  unpleasant and unfair to Dam to set some one to
  find out from his comrades what he calls himself.
  If he chooses to hide from what he thinks is the
  chance of further disgracing his people, and suffers
  what he does in order to remain hidden, shall I be
  the one to do anything to show him up and cause
  him worse suffering--expose him to a servant?

  "How can I get him a letter that shall not have
  his name on it? If I wrote to his Colonel or the
  Adjutant and enclosed a letter with just 'Dam'
  on it they'd not know for whom it was meant--and
  I dare not tell them his real name.

  "Could you get a letter to him, Ormonde, without
  letting him know that you know he is a private
  soldier, and without letting a soul know his real
  name?

  "I do apologize for the length of this interminable
  letter, but if you only knew the relief it is to me to
  be doing something that may help him, and to be
  talking, or rather writing about him, you would
  forgive me.

  "His name must not be mentioned here. Think
  of it!

  "Oh, if it only would not make him more unhappy,
  I would go to him this minute, and refuse ever to
  leave him again.

  "Does that sound unmaidenly, Ormonde? I
  don't care whether it does or not, nor whether it is
  or not. I love him, and he loves me. I am his
  friend. Could I stay here in luxury if it would
  make him happier to marry me? Am I a terribly
  abandoned female? I told Auntie Yvette just what
  I had done, and though it simply saved her life to
  know he had not committed suicide (I believe she
  worshipped father)--she seemed mortally shocked
  at me for behaving so. I am not a bit ashamed
  though. Dam is more important than good form,
  and I had to show him in the strongest possible
  way that he was dearer to me than ever. If it was
  'behaving like a servant-girl'--all honour to
  servant-girls, I think ... considering the circumstances.
  You should have seen his face before he
  caught sight of me. Yes--and after, too. Though
  really I think he suffered more from my kissing him--in
  uniform, in the street--than if I had cut him.
  It would be only for the minute though ... it
  must comfort him now, and always, to think that
  I love him so (since he loves me--and always has
  done). But what I must know before I can sleep
  peacefully again is the name by which he goes in the
  '2 Q.G's.,' so that I can write and comfort him regularly,
  send him things, and make him buy himself out
  when he sees he has been foolish and wicked in supposing
  that he has publicly disgraced himself and his
  name and us. And I'm going to make Grandfather's
  life a misery, and go about skinny and ragged and
  weeping, and say: 'This is how you treat the
  daughter of your dead friend, you wicked, cruel,
  unjust old man,' until he relents and sends for Dam
  and gets him into the Army properly.... But I
  am afraid Dam will think it his silly duty to flee
  from me and all my works, and hide himself where
  the names of de Warrenne and Stukeley are unknown
  and cannot be disgraced.

  "I rely on you, Ormonde,

  "Your ashamed grateful friend,

  "LUCILLE GAVESTONE."

Second Lieutenant Delorme rang the bell.

"Bradshaw," he said, as his soldier-servant appeared. "And get me a telegraph form."

"Yussir," said Private Billings, and marched to the Mess ante-room purposefully, with hope
in his heart that Mr. Delorme 'ad nothink less than a 'alf dollar for the telegram and would
forgit to arx for the chainge, as was his occasional praiseworthy procedure.

Mr. Delorme, alas, proved to have a mean and vulgar shilling, the which he handed to Private
Billings with a form containing the message:--

"Can do. So cheer up. Writing his adjutant, pal of mine. Coming over Saturday if get leave.
Going Shorncliffe if necessary. Leave due. Dam all right. Will blow over. Thanks for letting
me help."

"'Fraid they don' give no tick at the Telegraft Orfis, Sir," observed Private Billings, who,
as quondam "trained observer" of his troop, had noted the length of the telegram and the shortness
of the allowance therefor.

"What the deuce...?"

"This is more like a 'alf-dollar job, Sir," he groaned, waving the paper, "wot wiv' the haddress
an' all."

"Oh--er--yes, bit thick for a bob, perhaps; here's half a sov...."

"That's more like ''Eres to yer,' Mr. D----" remarked the good man--outside the door. "And
don't yer werry about trifles o' chainge. Be a gent!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Lucille read and re-read the telegram in many ways.

"Can do so. No, that wouldn't do.

(What a pity people would not remember when writing telegrams that the stops and capitals they
put are ignored by the operators.)

At last, the wish being father to the thought, she decided it to be "Can do" (she knew that
to be a navy expression). Which was not far wrong.

Dear old Ormonde! She knew he would not fail her--although he had been terribly cut up by her
rejection of his suit and by his belief that Dam had let him haunt her in the knowledge that
she was his own private property, secured to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having dispatched his telegram and interviewed his Adjutant, Captain, and Colonel, Mr. Delorme
sat him down and wrote to Lieutenant the Honourable Reginald Montague Despencer, Adjutant of
the Queen's Greys:--

  "MY DEAR MONTY,

  "At the Rag. the other day, respectfully dining
  with my respected parent, I encountered, respectfully
  dining with his respected parent, your embryo Strawberry
  Leaf, old 'Punch Peerson'. (Do you remember
  his standing on his head on the engine at
  Blackwater Station when he was too 'merry' to be
  able to stand steady on his feet?) I learnt that he
  is still with you and I want him to do something for
  me. He'll be serious about it if you speak to him
  about it--and I am writing to him direct. I'm
  going to send you a letter (under my cover), and
  on it will be one word 'Dam' (on the envelope, of
  course). I want you to give this to Punch and
  order him to show it privately to the gentlemen-rankers
  of the corps till one says he recognizes the
  force of the word (pretty forceful, too, what!) and
  the writing. To this chap he is to give it. Be
  good to your poor 'rankers,' Monty, I know one
  damned hard case among them. No fault of his,
  poor chap. I could say a lot--surprise you--but
  I mustn't. It's awfully good of you, old chap. I
  know you'll see it through. It concerns as fine a
  gentleman as ever stepped and the finest woman!

  "Ever thine,

  "O. DELORME."

"Look here, my lambs--or rather, Black Sheep," quoth Trooper Punch Peerson one tea-time to
Troopers Bear, Little, Goate, Nemo, Burke, Jones, and Matthewson, "I suppose none of you answers
to the name of 'Dam'?"

No man answered, and Trooper Peerson looked at the face of no man, nor any one at any other.

"No. I thought not. Well, I have a letter addressed in that objurgatory term, and I am going
to place it beneath my pillow before I go out to-night. If it is there when I come in I'll
destroy it unopened. 'Nuff said,' as the lady remarked when she put the mop in her husband's
mouth. Origin of the phrase 'don't chew the mop,' I should think," and he babbled on, having
let his unfortunate friends know that for one of them he had a letter which might be received
by the addressed without the least loss of his anonymity.

Dam's heart beat hard and seemed to swell to bursting. He felt suffocated.

"Quaint superscription," he managed to observe. "How did you come by it?" and then wished he
had not spoken.... Who but the recipient could be interested in its method of delivery? If
anyone suspected him of being "Dam" would they not at once connect him with the notorious Damocles
de Warrenne, ex-Sandhurst cadet, proclaimed coward and wretched neurotic decadent before the
pained, disgusted eyes of his county, kicked out by his guardian ... a disgrace to two honoured
names. ... "The Adjer handed it over. Thought I was the biggest Damn here, I suppose," Trooper
Peerson replied without looking up from his plate. "Practical silly joke I should think. No
one here with such a loathsome, name as Dam, of course," but Trooper Punch Peerson had his
philosophic "doots". He, like others of that set, had heard of a big chap who was a marvel
at Sandhurst with the gloves, sword, horse, and other things, and who had suddenly and marvellously
disappeared into thin air leaving no trace behind him, after some public scandal or other....
But that was no concern of Trooper Punch Peerson, gentleman....

With a wary eye on Peerson, Dam lay on his bed, affecting to read a stale and dirty news-sheet.
He saw him slip something beneath his pillow and swagger out of the barrack-room. Anon no member
of the little band of gentleman-rankers was left. Later, the room was empty, save for a heavily
snoring drunkard and a busy polisher who, at the shelf-table at the far end of the room, laboured
on his jack-boots, hissing the while, like a groom with a dandy-brush.

Going to Peerson's bed, Dam snatched the letter, returned to his own, and flung himself down
again--his heart pumping as though he had just finished a mile race. Lucille had got a letter
to him somehow. Lucille was not going to drop him yet--in spite of having seen him a red-handed,
crop-haired, "quiff"-wearing, coarse-looking soldier.... Was there another woman in the world
like Lucille? Would any other girl have so risen superior to her breeding, and the teachings
of Miss Smellie, as to do what she thought right, regardless of public scandal...? But he must
not give her the opportunity of being seen talking to a soldier again--much less kissing one.
Not that she would want to kiss him again like that. That was the kiss of welcome, of encouragement,
of proof that she was unchanged to him--her first sight of him after the débâcle. It was the
unchecked impulse of a noble heart--and the action showed that Miss Smellie had been unable
to do it much harm with her miserable artificialities and stiflings of all that is natural
and human and right.... Should he read the letter at once or treasure it up and keep it as
a treat in store? He would hold it in his hand unopened and imagine its contents. He would
spin out the glorious pleasure of possession of an unopened letter from Lucille. He could,
of course, read it hundreds of times--but he would then soon know it by heart, and although
its charm and value would be no less, it would merge with his other memories and become a memory
itself. He did not want it to become a memory too soon.

The longer it remained an anticipation, the more distant the day when it became a memory....

With a groan of "Oh, my brain's softening and I'm becoming a sentimentalist," he opened the
letter and read Lucille's loving, cheering--yet agonizing, maddening--words:--

  "MY OWN DARLING DAM,

  "If this letter reaches you safely you are to
  sit down at once and write to me to tell me how to
  address you by post in the ordinary way. If you
  don't I shall come and haunt the entrance to the
  Lines and waylay you. People will think I am a
  poor soul whom you have married and deserted, or
  whom you won't marry. I'll show up your wicked
  cruelty to a poor girl! How would you like your
  comrades to say 'Look out, Bill, your pore wife's
  'anging about the gates' and to have to lie low--and
  send out scouts to see if the coast was clear
  later on? Don't you go playing fast and loose with
  me, master Dam, winning my young affections,
  making love to me, kissing me--and then refusing
  to marry me after it all! I don't want to be too
  hard on you (and I am reasonable enough to admit
  that one-and-two a day puts things on a smaller
  scale than I have been accustomed to in the home
  of my fathers--or rather uncles, or perhaps uncles-in-law),
  and like the kind Tailor whom the Haddock
  advertises (and like the unkind Judge before whom
  he'll some day come for something) I will 'give you
  time'. But it's only a respite, Mr. de Warrenne.
  You are not going to trifle with my young feelings
  and escape altogether. I have my eye on you--and
  if I respect your one-and-twopence a day now,
  it is on the clear understanding that you share my
  Little All on the day I come of age. I will trust
  you once more, although you have treated me so--bolting
  and hiding from your confiding fiancée.

  "So write and tell me what you call yourself, so
  that I can write to you regularly and satisfy myself
  that you are not escaping me again. How could
  you treat a poor trusting female so--and then when
  she had found you again, and was showing her delight
  and begging to be married and settled in life--to
  rush away from her, leaving her and her modest
  matrimonial proposals scorned and rejected! For
  shame, Sir! I've a good mind to come and complain
  to your Colonel and ask him to make you keep
  your solemn promises and marry me....

  "Now look here, darling, nonsense aside--I
  solemnly swear that if you don't buy yourself out of
  the army on the day I come of age (or before, if
  you will, and can) I will really come and make you
  marry me and I will live with you as a soldier's wife.
  If you persist in your wrong-headed notion of being
  a 'disgrace' (you!) then we'll just adopt the army
  as a career, and we'll go through all the phases till
  you get a Commission. I hope you won't take this
  course--but if you do, you'll be a second Hector
  Macdonald and retire as Lieutenant-General Sir
  Damocles de Warrenne (K.C.B., K.C.M.G.,
  K.C.S.I., D.S.O., and, of course, V.C.), having
  confessed to an alias. It will be a long time before
  we should be in really congenial society, that way,
  darling, but I'm sure I should enjoy every hour of
  it with you, so long as I felt I was a comfort and
  happiness to you. And when you got your Commission
  I should not be a social drag upon you as
  sometimes happens. Nor before it should I be a
  nuisance and hindrance to you and make you wish
  you were 'shut of the curse of a soldier'. I could
  'rough it' as well as you and, besides, there would
  be no 'roughing it' where you were, for me. It is
  here that I am 'roughing it,' sitting impotent and
  wondering what is happening to you, and whether
  that terrible illness ever seizes you, and whether
  you are properly looked after when it does.

  "Now, just realize, dearest Dam--I said I would
  wait twenty years for you, if necessary. I would
  and I will, but don't make me do it, darling.
  Realize how happy I should be if I could only come
  and sew and cook and scrub and work for you.
  Can you understand that life is only measurable in
  terms of happiness and that my happiness can only
  be where you, are? If you weren't liable to these
  seizures I could bear to wait, but as it is, I can't.
  I beg and beseech you not to make me wait till I
  am of age, Dam. There's no telling what may
  happen to you and I just can't bear it. I'm coming,
  if I don't hear from you, and I can easily do something
  to compel you to marry me, if I come. You
  are not going to bear this alone, darling, so don't
  imagine it. We're not going to keep separate
  shops after all these years, just because you're ill
  with a trouble of some kind that fools can't understand.

  "Now write to me at once and put me in a position
  to write to you in the ordinary way--or look
  out for me! I'm all ready to run away, all sorts
  of useful things packed--ready to come and be a
  soldier's girl.

  "You know that I do what I think I'll do--you
  spoke of my 'steel-straight directness and sweet
  brave will' in the poem you were making about
  me, you poor funny old boy, when you vanished,
  and which I found in your room when I went there
  to cry, (Oh, how I cried when I found your odds
  and ends of verse about me there--I really did think
  my heart was 'broken' in actual fact.) Don't
  make me suffer any more, darling. I'm sure your
  Colonel will be sweet about it and give us a nice
  little house all to ourselves, now he has seen what
  a splendid soldier you are. If you stick to your
  folly about 'disgrace' I need not tell him our names
  and Grumper couldn't take me away from you, even
  if he ever found out where we were.

  "I could go on writing all night, darling, but I'll
  only just say again I am going to marry you and
  take care of you, Dam, in the army or out of it.

  "Your fiancee and friend,

  "LUCILLE GAVESTONE."

Dam groaned aloud.

"Four o' rum 'ot, is wot you want, mate, for that," said the industrious self-improver at the
shelf-table. "Got a chill on yer stummick on sentry-go in the fog an' rine las' night.... I'd
give a 'ogs'ead to see the bloke who wrote in the bloomin' Reggilashuns 'nor must bloomin'
sentries stand in their blasted sentry-boxes in good or even in moderate-weather' a doin' of
it 'isself in 'is bloomin' 'moderate weather' with water a runnin' down 'is back, an' 'is feet
froze into a puddle, an' the fog a chokin' of 'im, an' 'is blighted carbine feelin' like a
yard o' bad ice--an' then find the bloomin' winder above 'is bed been opened by some kind bloke
an' 'is bed a blasted swamp... Yus--you 'ave four o' rum 'ot and you'll feel like the bloomin'
'Ouse o' Lords. Then 'ave a Livin'stone Rouser."  "Oh, shut up," said Dam, cursing the Bathos
of Things and returning to the beginning of Lucille's letter.

       *       *       *       *       *

In his somewhat incoherent reply, Dam assured Lucille that he was in the rudest health and
spirits, and the particular pet of his Colonel who inquired after his health almost daily with
tender solicitude; that he had exaggerated his feeling on That Evening when he had kissed Lucille
as a lover, and begged forgiveness; that marriage would seriously hamper a most promising military
career; that he had had no recurrence of the "fit" (a mere touch of sun); that it would be
unkind and unfair of Lucille to bring scandal and disgrace upon a rising young soldier by hanging
about the Lines and making inquiries about him with a view to forcing him into marriage, making
him keep to a bargain made in a rash, unguarded moment of sentimentality; that, in any case,
soldiers could not marry until they had a certain income and status, and, if they did so, it
was no marriage and they were sent to jail; that his worst enemy would not do anything to drag
him out once again into the light of publicity, and disgrace his family further, now that he
had effectually disappeared and was being forgotten; and that he announced that he was known
as Trooper Matthewson (E Troop, The Queen's Greys, Cavalry Lines, Shorncliffe) to prevent Lucille
from keeping her most unladylike promise of persecuting him.

Lucille's next letter was shorter than the first.

  "MY DARLING DAM,

  "Don't be such a priceless Ass. Come
  off it.

  "Your own

  "LUCILLE.

  "P.S.--Write to me properly at once--or expect
  me on Monday."

He obeyed, poured out his whole heart in love and thanks and blessings, and persuaded her that
the one thing that could increase his misery would be her presence, and swore that he would
strain every nerve to appear before her at the earliest possible moment a free man with redeemed
name--provided he could persuade himself he was not a congenital lunatic, an epileptic, a decadent--could
cure himself of his mental disease....

CHAPTER XI.

MORE MYRMIDONS.

The truly busy man cannot be actively and consciously unhappy. The truly miserable and despondent
person is never continuously and actively employed. Fits of deep depression there may be for
the worker when work is impossible, but, unless there be mental and physical illness, sleep
is the other anaesthetic, refuge--and reward.

The Wise thank God for Work and for Sleep--and pay large premia of the former as Insurance
in the latter.

To Damocles de Warrenne--to whom the name "Trooper Matthewson" now seemed the only one he had
ever had--the craved necessity of life and sanity was work, occupation, mental and physical
labour. He would have blessed the man who sentenced him to commence the digging of a trench
ten miles long and a yard deep for morning and evening labour, and to take over all the accounts
of each squadron, for employment in the heat of the day. There was no man in the regiment so
indefatigable, so energetic, so persevering, so insatiable of "fatigues," so willing and anxious
to do other people's duty as well as his own, so restless, so untiring as Trooper Matthewson
of E Troop. For Damocles de Warrenne was in the Land of the Serpent and lived in fear. He lived
in fear and feared to live; he thought of Fear and feared to think. He turned to work as, but
for the memory of Lucille, he would have turned to drink: he laboured to earn deep dreamless
sleep and he dreaded sleep. Awake, he could drug himself with work; asleep, he was the prey--the
bound, gagged helpless, abject prey--of the Snake. The greediest glutton for work in the best
working regiment in the world was Trooper Matthewson--but for him was no promotion. He was,
alas, "unreliable"--apt to be "drunk and disorderly," drunk to the point of "seeing snakes"
and becoming a weeping, screaming lunatic--a disgusting spectacle. And, when brought up for
sentence, would solemnly assure the Colonel that he was a total abstainer, and stick to it
when "told-off" for adding impudent lying to shameful indulgence and sickening behaviour. No
promotion for that type of waster while Colonel the Earl of A---- commanded the Queen's Greys,
nor while Captain Daunt commanded the squadron the trooper occasionally disgraced.

But he had his points, mark you, and it was a thousand pities that so fine a soldier was undeniably
subject to attacks of delirium tremens and unmistakeably a secret drinker who might at any
time have a violent outburst, finishing in screams, sobs, and tears. A most remarkable case!
Who ever heard of a magnificent athlete--regimental champion boxer and swordsman, admittedly
as fine and bold a horseman and horse-master as the Rough-Riding Sergeant-Major or the Riding-Master
himself--being a sufficiently industrious secret-drinker to get "goes" of "d.t.," to drink
till he behaved like some God-and-man-forsaken wretch that lives on cheap gin in a chronic
state of alcoholism. He had his points, and if the Brigadier had ever happened to say to the
Colonel: "Send me your smartest, most intelligent, and keenest man to gallop for me at the
manoeuvres," or the Inspector of Army Gymnasia had asked for the regiment's finest specimen,
or if one representative private soldier had to be sent somewhere to uphold the credit and
honour of the Queen's Greys, undoubtedly Trooper Matthewson would have been chosen.

What a splendid squadron-sergeant major, regimental sergeant-major, yea, what a fine officer
he would have made, had he been reliable. But there, you can't have an officer, nor a non-com.,
either, who lies shrieking and blubbering on the floor coram publico, and screams to God and
man to save him from the snakes that exist only in his own drink-deranged mind. For of course
it can only be Drink that produces "Snakes"! Yes, it is only through the ghastly alcohol-tinted
glasses that you can "see snakes"--any fool knows that.

And the fools of the Queen's Greys knew it, and hoped to God that Matthewson would "keep off
it" till after the Divisional Boxing Tournament and Assault-at-Arms, for, if he did, the Queen's
Greys would certainly have the Best Man-at-Arms in the Division and have a mighty good shot
at having the Heavy-Weight All-India Champion, since Matthewson had challenged the Holder and
held an absolutely unbroken record of victories in the various regimental and inter-regimental
boxing tournaments in which he had taken part since joining the regiment. And he had been "up
against some useful lads" as Captain Chevalier, the president and Maecenas of the Queen's Greys'
boxing-club, expressed it. Yes, Matthewson had his points and the man who brought the Regiment
the kudos of having best Man-at-Arms and Heavy-Weight Champion of India would be forgiven a lot.

And Damocles de Warrenne blessed the Divisional Boxing Tournament, Assault-at-Arms, and, particularly,
the All-India Heavy-Weight Championship.

Occupation, labour, anodyne.... Work and deep Sleep. Fighting to keep the Snake at bay. No,
fighting to get away from it--there was no keeping it at bay--nothing but shrieking collapse
when It came....

From parade ground to gymnasium, from gymnasium to swimming-bath, from swimming-bath to running-track,
from running-track to boxing-ring, from boxing-ring to gymnasium again. Work, occupation, forgetfulness.
Forget the Snake for a little while--even though it is surely lurking near--waiting, waiting,
waiting; nay, even beneath his very foot and moving....

Well, a man can struggle with himself until the Thing actually appears in the concrete, and
he goes mad--but Night! Oh, God grant deep sleep at night--or wide wakefulness and a light.
Neither Nightmare nor wakefulness in the dark, oh, Merciful God.

Yes, things were getting worse. He was going mad. MAD. Desert--and get out of India somehow?

Never! No gentleman "deserts" anything or anybody.

Suicide--and face God unafraid and unashamed?

Never! The worst and meanest form of "deserting".

No. Stick it. And live to work--work to live. And strive and strive and strive to obliterate
the image of Lucille--that sorrow's crown of sorrow.

And so Trooper Matthewson's course of training was a severe one and he appeared to fear rest
and relaxation as some people fear work and employment.

His favourite occupation was to get the ten best boxers of the regiment to jointly engage in
a ten-round contest with him, one round each. He would frequently finish fresher than the tenth
man. Coming of notedly powerful stock on both sides, and having been physically educated from
babyhood, Dam, with clean living and constant training, was a very uncommon specimen. There
may have been one or two other men in the regiment as well developed, or nearly so; but when
poise, rapidity, and skill were taken into account there was no one near him. Captain Chevalier
said he was infinitely the quickest heavy-weight boxer he had ever seen--and Captain Chevalier
was a pillar of the National Sporting Club and always knew the current professionals personally
when he was in England. In fact, with the enormous strength of the best heavy-weight, Dam combined
the lightning rapidity and mobility of the best feather-weight.

His own doubt as to the result of his contest with the heavy-weight Champion of India arose
from the fact that the latter was a person of much lower nervous development, a creature far
less sensitive to shock, a denser and more elementary organism altogether, and possessed of
a far thicker skull, shorter jaw, and thicker neck. Dam summed him up thus with no sense of
contemptuous superiority, but with a plain recognition of the facts that the Champion was a
fighting machine, a dull, foreheadless, brutal gladiator who owed his championship very largely
to the fact that he was barely sensible to pain, and impervious to padded blows. It was said
that he had never been knocked out in all his boxing-career, that the kick of a horse on his
chin would not knock him out, that his head was solid bone, and that the shortness of his jaw
and thickness of his neck absolutely prevented sufficient leverage between the point of the
jaw and the spinal cord for the administration of the shock to the medulla oblongata that causes
the necessary ten-seconds' unconsciousness of the "knock-out".

He was known as the Gorilla by reason of his long arms, incredible strength, beauty, and pleasing
habits, and he bore the reputation of a merciless and unchivalrous opponent and one who needed
the strictest and most experienced refereeing. It would be a real terrific fight, and that
was the main thing to Dam, though he would do his very utmost to win, for the credit of the
Queen's Greys, and would leave no stone unturned to that end. He regretted that he could not
get leave and go to Pultanpur to see the Champion box, and learn something of his style and
methods when easily defending his title in the Pultanpur tournament. And when the Tournament
and Assault-at-Arms were over he must find something else to occupy him by day and tire him
before night. Meanwhile life was bearable, with the fight to come--except for sentry-go work.
That was awful, unspeakable, and each time was worse than the last. Sitting up all night in
the guard-room under the big lamp, and perhaps with some other wakeful wretch to talk to, was
nothing. That was well enough--but to be on a lonely post on a dark night ... well--he couldn't
do it much longer.

Darkness and the Snake that was always coming and never came! To prowl round and round some
magazine, store, or boundary-stone with his carbine at the "support," or to tramp up and down
by the horse-lines, armed only with his cutting-whip; to stand in a sentry-box while the rain
fell in sheets and there was no telling what the next flash of lightning might reveal--that
was what would send him to a lunatic's padded cell.

To see the Snake by day would give him a cruel, terrible fit--but to be aware of it in the
dark would be final--and fatal to his reason (which was none too firmly enthroned). No, he
had the dreadful feeling that his reason was none too solidly based and fixed. He had horrible
experiences, apart from the snake-nightmares, nowadays. One night when he awoke and lay staring
up at his mosquito-curtain in the blessed light of the big room-lamp (always provided in India
on account of rifle thieves) he had suddenly felt an overwhelming surge of fear. He sat up.
God!--he was in a marble box! These white walls and roof were not mosquito-netting, they were
solid marble! He was in a tomb. He was buried alive. The air was growing foul. His screams
would be absolutely inaudible. He screamed, and struck wildly at the cold cruel marble, and
found it was soft, yielding netting after all. But it was a worse horror to find that he had
thought it marble than if he had found it to be marble. He sprang from his cot.

"I am going mad," he cried.

"Goin'?... Gorn, more like," observed the disrobing room-corporal. "Why donchew keep orf the
booze, Maffewson? You silly gapin' goat. Git inter bed and shut yer 'ead--or I'll get yew a
night in clink, me lad--and wiv'out a light, see?"

Corporal Prag knew his victim's little weakness and grinned maliciously as Dam sprang into
bed without a word.

The Stone Jug without a gleam of light! Could a man choke himself with his own fingers if the
worst came to the worst? The Digger and Stygian darkness--now--when he was going mad! Men could
not be so cruel.... But they'd say he was drunk. He would lie still and cling with all his
strength and heart and soul to sanity. He would think of That Evening with Lucille--and of
her kisses. He would recite the Odes of Horace, the Aeneid, the Odyssey as far as he could
remember them, and then fall back on Shakespeare and other English poets. Probably he knew
a lot more Greek and Latin poetry (little as it was) than he did of English....

Corporal Prag improved the occasion as he unlaced his boots. "Bloomin' biby! Afraid o' the
dark! See wot boozin' brings yer to. Look at yer! An' look at me. Non-c'misshn'd orficer in
free an' a 'arf years from j'inin'. Never tasted alc'ol in me life, an' if any man offud me
a glarse, d'ye know what I'd dew?"

"No, Corporal, I'd like to hear," replied Dam. (Must keep the animal talking as long as possible
for the sake of human company. He'd go mad at once, perhaps, when the Corporal went to bed.)

"I'd frow it strite in 'is faice, I would," announced the virtuous youth. A big boot flopped
heavily on the floor.

"I daresay you come of good old teetotal stock," observed Dam, to make conversation. Perhaps
the fellow would pause in his assault upon the other boot and reply--so lengthening out the
precious minutes of diversion. Every minute was a minute nearer dawn....

"Do yer? Well, you're bloomin' well wrong, Maffewson, me lad. My farver 'ad a bout every Saturday
arternoon and kep' it up all day a Sund'y, 'e did--an' in the werry las' bout 'e ever 'ad 'e
bashed 'is ole woman's 'ead in wiv' a bottle."

"And was hanged?" inquired Dam politely and innocently, but most tactlessly.

"Mind yer own b---- business," roared Corporal Prag. "Other people's farvers wasn't gallows-birds
if yourn was. 'Ow'd you look if I come and punched you on the nose, eh? Wot 'ud you do if I
come an' set abaht yer, eh?"

"Break your neck," replied Dam tersely.

"Ho, yus. And wot 'ud yew say when I calls the guard and they frows you into clink? Without
no light, Trooper Maffewson!"

Dam shuddered.

Corporal Prag yet further improved the occasion, earning Dam's heartfelt blessing.

"Don't you fergit it, Trooper Maffewson. I'm yore sooperier orficer. You may be better'n me
in the Ring, praps, or with the sword (Dam could have killed him in five minutes, with or without
weapons), but if I 'olds up my little finger you comes to 'eel--or other'ow you goes ter clink.
'Ung indeed! You look after yer own farver an' don' pass remarks on yer betters. Why! You boozin'
waster, I shall be Regimental Sargen' Majer when you're a bloomin' discharged private wiv an
'undred 'drunks' in red on yer Defaulter's Sheet. Regimental Sarjen' Majer! I shall be an Orficer
more like, and walk acrost the crossin' wot you're asweepin', to me Club in bloomin' well Pickerdilly!
Yus. This is the days o' ? Demockerycy, me lad. 'Good Lloyd George's golden days' as they sing--and
steady fellers like me is goin' to ave C'missh'ns--an' don' you fergit it! Farver 'ung indeed!"

"I'm awf'ly sorry, Corporal, really," apologized Dam. "I didn't think...."

"No, me lad," returned the unmollified superior, as he stooped to the other boot, "if you was
to think more an' booze less you'd do better.... 'Ow an' where you gets 'old of it, beats me.
I've seed you in delirium trimmings but I ain't never seed you drinkin' nor yet smelt it on
yer. You're a cunnin' 'ound in yer way. One o' them beastly secret-drinkin' swine wots never
suspected till they falls down 'owlin' blue 'orrors an' seem' pink toadses. Leastways it's
snakes you sees. See 'em oncte too orfen, you will.... See 'em on p'rade one day in front o'
the Colonel. Fall orf yer long-face an get trampled--an' serve yer glad.... An' now shut yer
silly 'ed an' don't chew the mop so much. Let me get some sleep. I 'as respontsibillaties I do...."

A crossing outside a Club! More likely a padded cell in a troopship and hospital until an asylum
claimed him.

In the finals, "Sword versus Sword Dismounted," Dam had a foeman worthy of his steel.

A glorious chilly morning, sunrise on a wide high open maidan, rows of tents for the spectators
at the great evening final, and crowds of officers and men in uniform or gymnasium kit. On
a group of chairs sat the Divisional General, his Colonel on the Staff, and Aide-de-Camp; the
Brigadier-General, his Brigade-Major, and a few ladies, wives of regimental colonels, officers,
and leading Civilians.

Semi-finals of Tent-pegging, Sword v. Sword Mounted, Bayonet-fighting, Tug-of-War, Fencing,
and other officers' and men's events had been, or were being, contested.

