"Not directly, perhaps, but I am sure she will die the sooner for it. All her pride in her
life's work is gone. She feels that she is disgraced. I could not bear to see her this afternoon,
utterly ashamed and humble before that man."

"What did he say?"

"Some things I won't tell you." A quick blush dyed her face. "Naturally, he was angry: he had
good reason to be. And when he told her she was past her work, she moaned, poor thing! while
the tears rained down her cheeks, and only said, 'God forgive me--yes.'"

Percival could but echo her pity. "Bertie never thought--" he began.

"Never thought? When our trouble came," said Judith, "we had plenty of friends better able
to do something for us, but, somehow, they didn't. And when there was the talk of Bertie's
coming here, and I remembered her and asked her if she could help me to a situation anywhere
in the neighborhood, she wrote to me to come to her at once, and she would do all she could
to help Bertie too. I have her letter still. She said she longed to know me for my mother's
sake, and was sure she would soon love me for my own. And this afternoon she prayed God she
might never see my face again!"

"She thinks you are to blame, then?" said Thorne.

"Yes; and am I not?" was the quick reply. "Ought I not to have known Bertie better? And I did
know him: that is the worst of it. I did not expect this, and yet I ought to have been on my
guard. He has been my one study from first to last. From the time that he was a little boy--the
bonniest little boy that ever was!--my life has been all Bertie. I remember him, with long
curls hanging down his back and his gray eyes opened wide, when he stood on tiptoe at the piano
and touched the little tunes that he had heard, and looked over his shoulder at me and laughed
for pleasure in his music. I can see his little baby-fingers--the little soft fingers I used
to kiss--on the keys now.--Oh, Bertie, why didn't you die then?"

She stopped as if checked by a sudden thought, and looked so quickly up at Percival that she
caught an answer in his eyes that he would never have uttered.

"Ah, yes, he would have been the same," she said. "He was the same then: I know it. They used
to praise me, when I was a child, for giving everything up to Bertie. As if he were not my
happiness! And it has been so always. And now I have sacrificed Miss Crawford to Bertie--my
dear old friend, my mother's friend, who is worth ten times as much as Bertie ever was or ever
will be! Is not this a fine ending of all?"

Percival broke the silence after a moment's pause. "Is it an ending of all?" he said. "Bertie
has been very wrong, but it has been partly thoughtlessness. He is very young, and if he should
do well hereafter may there not even yet be a future to which you may look forward? As for
the world, it is not disposed to look on a runaway match of this sort as a crime."

She turned her eyes full upon him, and he stopped.

"Oh, the world!" she said. "The world will consider it a sort of young Lochinvar affair, no
doubt. But how much of the young Lochinvar do you think there is about Bertie, Mr. Thorne?
You have heard him speak of Emmeline Nash sometimes--not as often nor as freely as he has spoken
to me; still, you have heard him. And judging from that, do you believe he is in love with her?"

"Well--no," said Thorne reluctantly. "Hardly that."

"A thousand times no! If by any possibility he had loved her, foolishly, madly, with a passion
that blinded him to the cruel wrong he was doing, it would all have been different. I should
have blamed him, but in spite of Miss Crawford I should have forgiven him; I should have had
hope; he would have been my Bertie still; I should not have despised him. But this is cold
and base and horrible: he has simply sold himself for Emmeline's money--sold himself, his smiles
and his pretty speeches and his handsome face. And now it is all over."

As Judith spoke Percival understood for the first time what a woman's voice could be. The girl's
soul was filled and shaken with passion. She did not cry aloud nor rant, but every accent thrilled
through him from head to foot. And it seemed to him that she needed no words--that, had she
been speaking in an unknown tongue, the very intonation, the mere sound, the vibration of her
voice, would have told him of her wounded heart, her despair, her unavailing sorrow, her bitter
shame, so eloquent it was. He did not think all this, but in a passing moment felt it. "I fear
it is all too true," he said. "I don't know what to say nor how to help you. Your brother--"

"Don't call him that: he is no brother of mine. Ah yes, God help me, he is my brother; and
I think we Lisles bring sorrow to all who are good to us. We have to you, have we not? Don't
stay here, Mr. Thorne: don't try to help me. Remember that I am of the same blood as my father,
who robbed you--as Bertie, who has been so base."

"And if Judas himself were your brother, what then?" Percival demanded. His voice, in its masculine
vigor and fulness, broke forth suddenly, like a strong creature held till then in a leash.
"And as for the money, what of that? I am glad it is gone, or I should not have been here to-day."

No, he would not have needed to turn clerk and earn his living. He would not have gone to Brackenhill
to confess his poverty. He might never have discovered anything. Most likely he would long
since have been Sissy's husband. Sissy seemed far away now. He had loved her--yes. Oh, poor
little Sissy, who had clung to him! But what were these new feelings that thronged his heart
as he looked at Judith Lisle? He stopped abruptly. What had he said?

Judith too looked at him, and grew suddenly calm and still. "You are very good," she said.
"I should have been very lonely to-day if I had not had a friend. It has been a comfort to
speak out what I felt, though I'm afraid I've talked foolishly."

"One can't weigh all one's words," said Percival.

"No," she answered; "and I know you will not remember my folly."

"At any rate, I will not forget that you have trusted me. You are tired," he said gently: "you
ought to rest. There is nothing to be done to-night."

"Nothing," she answered hopelessly.

"And to-morrow, if there is anything that I can do, you will send for me, will you not?"

She smiled.

"Promise me that," he urged in a tone of authority. "You will?"

"Yes, I promise."

Sometimes, when clouds roll up, black with thunder and rain, to overshadow the heavens and
to deluge the earth, between their masses you may catch a momentary gleam of blue, faint and
infinitely far away, deep, untroubled, most beautiful. Judith had caught such a glimpse that
evening as she bade Percival good-night.

CHAPTER XLVII.

CONSEQUENCES.

The story of the elopement was in all the local papers, which seemed for once to be printed
on Judith Lisle's heart. It was the latest and most exciting topic of conversation in the neighborhood
of Standon Square and St. Sylvester's, and was made doubly interesting by the utter collapse
of Mr. Clifton's Easter services, which were to have been something very remarkable indeed.
Every one recollected the young organist who was so handsome and who played so divinely. People
forgot that his father had failed very disgracefully, and only remembered that Bertie had once
been in a much better position. There was a sort of general impression that he was an aristocratic
young hero who lived in lofty poverty, and was a genius into the bargain. No one was very precise
about it, but Beethoven and Mendelssohn and all those people were likely to find themselves
eclipsed some fine morning. Emmeline Nash of course became a heroine to match, vaguely sketched
as slim, tall and fair. She had stayed on at Miss Crawford's at an age when a girl's education
is generally supposed to be finished, and she had not always gone home for the holidays. These
facts were of course the germs of a romance. There was a quarrel with her father, who wished
her to marry some one. No one knew who the some one might be, but as he was only a shadowy
figure in the background, his name was of no importance. Emmeline and her music-master had
fallen in love at first sight; and when the moment came for the girl to return home, to be
persecuted by her father's threats and by the attentions of the shadowy lover, her heart had
failed her and she had consented to fly with the young musician. As Judith had said, it was
a young Lochinvar romance--a boy-and-girl attachment. No one seemed to think much the worse
of Bertie. Hardly any one called him a fortune-hunter, for Emmeline's money seemed trivial
compared with the wealth that he was supposed to have once possessed. And no one thought anything
at all of Judith herself or of Miss Crawford.

It would soon be over and forgotten, but Judith suffered acutely while it lasted. Perhaps it
was well that she was forced to think about her own prospects, which were none of the brightest.

"Shall you go to Rookleigh?" Percival asked her a couple of days later.

She shook her head: "No: I'm too proud, I suppose, or too miserable: I can't have my failure
here talked over. Aunt Lisle's conversation is full of sharp little pin-pricks, which are all
very well when they don't go straight into one's heart."

He saw her lip quiver as she turned her face away. "Where will you go, then?" he asked with
gentle persistence. It was partly on his own account, for he feared that a blow was in store
for him, and he wanted to know the worst.

"I shall not go anywhere. I shall not leave Brenthill."

The blood seemed to rush strongly to his heart: his veins were full of warm life. She would
not leave Brenthill!

"I will stay, at any rate, while Miss Crawford remains here. She will not speak to me, she
has forbidden me to attempt to see her, but I cannot go away and leave her here alone. I may
not be of any use--I do not suppose I shall be--but while she is here I will not go."

"But if she left?"

"Still, I would not leave Brenthill if I could get any work to do. I feel as if I must stay
here, if only to show that I have not gone away with Bertie to live on Emmeline's money. Poor
Emmeline! And when he used to talk of my not working any more, and he would provide for me,
I thought he meant that he would make a fortune with his opera. What a fool I was!"

"It was a folly to be proud of."

He was rewarded with a faint smile, but the delicate curve of the girl's lips relaxed into
sadness all too soon.

The table at her side was strewn with sheets of roughly-blotted music, mixed with others daintily
neat, which Judith herself had copied. "His opera," she repeated, laying the leaves in order.
"Emmeline will be promoted to the office of critic and admirer now, I suppose. But I think
the admiration will be too indiscriminate even for Bertie. Poor Emmeline!"

"What are you going to do with all these?" said Thorne, laying his hand on the papers.

"I am putting them together to send to him. I had a letter this morning, so I know his address
now. He seems very hopeful, as usual, and thinks her father will forgive them before long."

"And do you think there is a chance of it?"

"No, I don't. Bertie did not hear what Mr. Nash said that afternoon to Miss Crawford and to
me," she replied; and once again the color rushed to her face at the remembrance.

"Miss Lisle," said Percival suddenly, "I am ready to make every allowance for Mr. Nash, but if--"

"Oh, it was nothing. He was angry, as he had reason to be: that was all. And you see I am not
used to angry men."

"I should hope not. I wish I had been there."

"And I don't," said Judith softly. "I think you might not have been very patient, and I felt
that one ought to be patient for Miss Crawford's sake. Besides, if you had been there I could
not have--Bertie writes in capital spirits," she continued with a sudden change of tone. "He
wants me to go and join them. He is just the same as ever, only rather proud of himself."

"Proud of himself! In Heaven's name, why?"

"Why, he is only two-and-twenty, and has secured a comfortable income for the rest of his life
by his own exertions. Naturally, he is proud of himself." Percival had learned now that Judith
never suffered more keenly than when she spoke of Bertie in a jesting tone, and it pained him
for her sake. He looked sorrowfully at her. "Mr. Thorne," she went on, "he does not even suspect
that what he has done is anything but praiseworthy and rather clever. He does not so much as
mention Miss Crawford. And I am haunted by a feeling that we have somehow wronged my mother
by wronging her old friend."

Percival did not tell her that he too had had a letter from Bertie. It was in his pocket as
he stood there, and when he went away he took it out and read it again.

Bertie was as light-hearted as she had said. He enclosed an order for the money taken from
the desk, and hoped Thorne had not wanted it; or, if he had been put to any inconvenience,
he must forgive him this once, as he, Lisle, did not suppose he should ever run away in that
style again.

"I think the old man will come round without much fuss," Bertie went on. "We have been very
penitent--the waste of note-paper before we could get our feelings properly expressed was something
frightful; but the money was well laid out, for we have heard from him again, and there is
a perceptible softening in the tone of his letter. Emmeline assures me that he is passionately
fond of music, and reminds me how anxious he was that she should learn to play. The reasoning
does not exactly convince me, but if the old fellow does but imagine that he has a passion
for music I will conquer him through that. And if the worst comes to the worst, and he is as
stony-hearted as one of his own fossils, we have only to manage for this year, and we must
come into our money when Emmeline is twenty-one. But I have no fear. He will relent, and we
shall be comfortably settled under the paternal roof long before Christmas.

"What did old Clifton say and do when he found I had bolted? And how did the Easter services
go off? Those blessed Easter services that he was in such a state of mind about! Was he very
savage? Send me as graphic a description as you can.

"Excuse a smudge, but Emmeline and I are bound to do a good deal of hugging and kissing just
now--a honeymoon after an elopement is something remarkably sweet, as you may suppose--and
her sleeve brushed the wet ink. This particular embrace was on the occasion of her departure
to put on her things. We are going out.

"Don't they say that married women always give up their accomplishments? Emmeline is a married
woman, therefore Emmeline will give up her music. How soon do you suppose she will begin?"

Half a page more of Bertie's random scribble brought him to a conclusion, but it was not a
final one, for he had added a couple of lines: "P.S. Persuade J. to shake herself free of Brenthill
as soon as possible: there can be no need for her to work now, thank God! You know it has always
been my day-dream and hope to provide for her. You must come and see us too. Come soon, before
we go to my father-in-law's. Good-bye: we are off.--P.S. No. 2. No, we are not. E. has forgotten
her parasol, and is gone for it. How is Lydia? What did she say when she heard the news? I
suppose by this time everybody knows it."

Percival's lip curved with scorn and disgust as he refolded the letter, in which Emmeline,
Judith and Lydia jostled each other as they might have done in a bad dream. Then he looked
up, being suddenly aware of eyes that were fixed upon him.

Miss Bryant stood in the doorway: "You've heard from him, Mr. Thorne?"

Percival did not choose to answer as if he were in Miss Bryant's secrets and knew as a matter
of course that "him" meant Lisle. Neither did he choose to say that he did not know who was
intended by the energetic pronoun. He looked back at Lydia politely and inquiringly, as if
he awaited further information before he could be expected to reply.

"Oh, you know," said Lydia scornfully. "You have heard from Mr. Bertie Lisle?"

"Yes," Percival acquiesced gravely.

"Well?"

"Well--what, Miss Bryant?"

"What does he say?" Lydia demanded; and when Thorne arched his brows, "Oh, you needn't look
as if you thought it wasn't my business. I've a right to ask after him, at any rate, for old
acquaintance' sake."

"I'm sorry to hear you take so much interest in him," he rejoined.

"Why? You may keep your sorrow for your own affairs: I'll manage mine. I can take very good
care of myself, I assure you, and I won't trouble you to be sorry for me," said Lydia shortly.
I do not think she had ever spoken to a young man before and been unconscious that it was a
young man to whom she spoke. But she was utterly heedless of Percival as she questioned him,
and he perceived it, and preferred this angry mood. "Can't you tell me anything about him?"
said the girl. "Is he well--happy?"

"He writes in the best of spirits."

Lydia advanced a step or two: "And is it all true what they are saying? He has married this
young lady?"

"Yes, he has married her."

"And do you suppose he cares for her?" said Lydia slowly.

Thome's brows went up again: "Really, Miss Bryant--"

"Because if he does, he has told lies enough: that's all."

("And he isn't a miracle of honor if he doesn't," said Percival.)

"But that's quite likely," Lydia went on, unheeding. "I knew all the time that he didn't mean
any good. He thought I believed him, but I didn't--not more than half, anyhow. But when he
went away I didn't guess it was for this."

"You knew he was going?" Thorne said.

Lydia half smiled, in conscious superiority.

"You don't seem to have served yourself particularly well by keeping his secrets. You are deceived
at last, like the rest."

"Well, if I haven't served myself I've served him," said Lydia. "And I don't know but what
I am glad of it. He wasn't as stuck-up and proud as some people. One likes to be looked at
and spoken to as if one wasn't dirt under people's feet. And, after all, I don't see that there's
any harm done." There were red rims to Lydia's eyes, telling of tears which must surely have
been too persistent to pass for tears of joy at the tidings of Bertie's elopement. "I suppose
a marriage like that is all right?" she asked with a quick glance.

"Of course--no doubt of it," said Percival very shortly. He had pitied her a moment earlier.

"Ah! I supposed so. But things ain't always all right when people run away. And the money's
all right too, is it?"

"Some of it, at any rate," said Thorne, taking a book from the table.

"Wouldn't he be sure to take care of that! And there's more to come if the father likes, isn't
there? He'll get that too: see if he doesn't."

"It is to be hoped he will--for Mrs. Lisle's sake. Otherwise, I cannot say I care to discuss
his prospects."

"Well," said Lydia after a pause, during which she turned a ring slowly on her finger--"well,
I'll wish him all the happiness he deserves."

Percival's lip curved a little: "Miss Bryant, are you absolutely pitiless?"

Lydia's expression was rather blank. "What do you mean? No, I ain't," she said. "I've nothing
more to do with him. He hasn't done me any harm, and I won't wish him any. At least, only a
little." With which small ebullition of feminine tenderness and spite she fled hurriedly down
stairs to shed a few more tears, and left Thorne to write his letter to Lisle. It was brief,
and none the sweeter for that recent interview.

"I return the money," Percival wrote, "which you say was so useful to you. I know that what
you have sent me is not yours, but your wife's, and I cannot conscientiously say that I think
Mrs. Herbert Lisle is indebted to me in any way.

"I have not delivered your message to your sister. I have no wish to insult her in her trouble,
and I know she would feel such persuasion a cruel insult, as indeed I think it would be."

Judith at the same time was writing:

"From this time our paths must lie apart. I will never touch a penny of your wife's money.
Do not dare to offer me a share of it again. It seems to me that all the shame and sorrow is
mine, and you have only the prosperity. Not for the whole world would I change burdens with you.

"Miss Crawford is going to give up her school at once. She will not see or speak to me, for
she suspects me of having been your accomplice. And I cannot help blaming myself that I trusted
you so foolishly. But I could not have believed that you would have been false to her--our
one friend, our mother's friend. Is it possible that you do not see that every one under her
roof should have been sacred to you? But what is the use of saying anything now?

"I don't know, after this, how to appeal to you, and I don't want any promises; but if you
feel any regret for the pain you have caused, and if you really wish to do anything for me,
I entreat you to be good to Emmeline. It is the only favor I will ever ask of you. She is young
and weak, poor girl! and she has trusted you utterly. In God's name, do not repay her trust
as you have repaid Miss Crawford's and mine!"

Bertie's incredulous amazement was visible in every line of his answer to Percival:

"Are you both cracked--you and Judith--or am I dreaming? I have read your letters a score of
times, and I think I understand them less than I did. Here are sweet bells jangled out of tune
with a vengeance, and Heaven only knows what all the row is about: I don't.

"Do you suppose a man never made a runaway match before? And how could I do otherwise than
as I did? Was I to stop and consult all the old women in the parish about it--ask Miss Crawford's
blessing, and get my sister to look out my train for me and pack my portmanteau? Can't you
see that I was obliged to deceive you a little?

"And what is amiss with the marriage itself? It is true that just now Emmeline has the money
and I have none, but do you suppose I am going to remain in obscurity all my life? A few years
hence you shall own that it was not at all a bad match for her. Old Nash is nobody, though
he is clever enough in his own way. His father was a tailor, and made a good lot of money so.
By the way, he is certainly coming round (Mr. Nash, I mean, not my grandfather-in-law the tailor:
he is dead), and if he doesn't object, why should anybody else?

"If I have done Miss Crawford any harm, I'm very sorry of course. Can't I help her in some way?"

The reply to Judith's letter came in a feeble, girlish handwriting. It began: "Herbert tells
me you are angry with him because he deceived you about our marriage," and it ended, "Your
affectionate sister, EMMELINE LISLE." The writer was evidently in the seventh heaven of bliss.
Her letter was an attempt at persuading Judith, but it was sprinkled all over with fond allusions
to Bertie--"My dear, dear husband," "my own dearest," "darlingest Herbert," "my own love;"
and in one place there was an unnecessary little parenthesis: "He is such a dear, you know!"
It was silly enough to be maddening, but it was wonderfully happy, with the writer's adoration
of Bertie and her serene certainty that Bertie adored her. Clearly, no shadow of doubt had
crossed Emmeline's mind. There was not such another man in all the world as Herbert Lisle,
and she was his ideal woman. Every other girl must envy her the prize she had won. Even his
sister was jealous and angry when she found that she held only the second place in his affections.
Emmeline, elated by her proud position, reasoned sweetly with the unreasonable Judith, who
read the foolish scribble with mingled irritation, laughter, contempt, and almost tears. At
the end were three lines in another hand: "Judith, you must let me send you some money. If
you don't understand why yet, you will soon. You really must."

"Does he think I can't get a situation without his help?" Judith wondered. She smiled, for
she had found one. Mrs. Barton had come to her assistance--Mrs. Barton, whose stupid little
daughter Judith was still patiently teaching. She understood the girl's wish to remain at Brenthill:
she believed in her and sympathized with her, and exerted herself in her behalf. She brought
her the offer of a situation in a school for little boys, where she would live in the house
and have a small salary. "It won't be like Miss Crawford's, you know," the good lady said.

"It will do, whatever it is," Judith answered.

"It is a school of quite a different class. Miss Macgregor is a woman who drives hard bargains.
She will overwork you, I'm afraid: I only hope she won't underfeed you. You will certainly
be underpaid. She takes advantage of the cause of your leaving Standon Square, and of the fact
that you can't ask Miss Crawford for testimonials. She is delighted at the idea of getting
a really good teacher for next to nothing."

"Still, it is in Brenthill," said Judith, "and that is the great thing. Thank you very much,
Mrs. Barton. I will take it."

"She will reopen school in about ten days."

"That will suit me very well, won't it? I must pack up here, and settle everything." And Judith
cast a desolate glance round the room where she had come with such happy hopes to begin a new
life with Bertie.

Mrs. Barton's eyes were fixed on her. "I am half inclined now to wish I hadn't said anything
about Miss Macgregor at all," she remarked.

"Why? If you only knew how grateful I am!"

"That's just it. Grateful! And that schoolmistress will work you to death: I know she will."

"She must take a little time about it," said the girl with a smile. "Perhaps before she has
quite finished I may hear of something else. What I want is something to enable me to stay
at Brenthill, and this will answer the purpose."

Mrs. Barton stood up to go. "I've made one stipulation," she said. "Miss Macgregor will let
you come to us every Wednesday afternoon to give Janie her lesson."

"Oh, how good you are!" Judith exclaimed. "I thought all that must be over."

"I wish I could have you altogether," Mrs. Barton said. "It would be charming for Janie, and
for me too. But, unfortunately, that can't be." She had her hand on the handle of the half-open
door. As she spoke there was a quick step on the stairs, and Percival Thorne went by. A slanting
light from the window in the passage fell on his sombre, olive-tinted face with a curiously
picturesque effect. An artist might have painted him, emerging thus from the dusky shadows.
He carried himself with a defiant pride--was he not Judith's friend and champion?--and bowed,
with a glance that was at once eager and earnest, when he caught sight of the young girl behind
her friend's substantial figure. His strongly-marked courtesy was so evidently natural that
it could not strike any one as an exaggeration of ordinary manners, but rather as the perfection
of some other manners, no matter whether those of a nation or a time, or only his own. Mrs.
Barton was startled and interested by the sudden apparition. The good lady was romantic in
her tastes, and this was like a glimpse of a living novel. "Who was that?" she asked hurriedly.

"Mr. Thorne. He lodges here," said Judith.

"A friend of your brother's?"

"He was very good to my brother."

"Ah!" said Mrs. Barton. "My dear, he is very handsome."

Judith smiled.

"He is!" exclaimed her friend. "Don't say he isn't, for I sha'n't believe you mean it. He is
very handsome--like a Spaniard, like a cavalier, like some one in a tragedy. Now, isn't he?"

Mrs. Barton's romantic feelings found no outlet in her daily round of household duties. Mr.
Barton was good, but commonplace; so was Janie; and Mrs. Barton was quite conscious that there
was nothing poetical or striking in her own appearance. But Miss Lisle, with her "great, grave
griefful air," was fit to take a leading part in poem or drama, and here was a man worthy to
play hero passing her on the staircase of a dingy lodging-house! Mrs. Barton built up a romance
in a moment, and was quite impatient to bid Judith farewell, that she might work out the details
as she walked along the street.

The unconscious hero of her romance was divided between pleasure and regret when he heard of
the treaty concluded with Miss Macgregor. It was much that Judith could remain at Brenthill,
but one day, on his way to dinner, he went and looked at the outside of the house which was
to be her home, and its aspect did not please him. It stood in a gloomy street: it was prim,
straight, narrow, and altogether hideous. A tiny bit of arid garden in front gave it a prudish
air of withdrawing from the life and traffic of the thoroughfare. The door opened as Percival
looked, and a woman came out, frigid, thin-lipped and sandy-haired. She paused on the step
and gave an order to the servant: evidently she was Miss Macgregor. Percival's heart died within
him. "That harpy!" he said under his breath. The door closed behind her, and there was a prison-like
sound of making fast within. The young man turned and walked away, oppressed by a sense of
gray dreariness. "Will she be able to breathe in that jail?" he wondered to himself. "Bellevue
street is a miserable hole, but at least one is free there." He prolonged his walk a little,
and went through Standon Square. It was bright and pleasant in the spring sunshine, and the
trees in the garden had little leaves on every twig. A man was painting the railings of Montague
House, and another was putting a brass plate on the door. There was a new name on it: Miss
Crawford's reign was over for ever.

Percival counted the days that still remained before Judith's bondage would begin and Bellevue
street be desolate as of old. Yet, though he prized every hour, they were miserable days. Lydia
Bryant haunted him--not with her former airs and graces, but with malicious hints in her speech
and little traps set for Miss Lisle and himself. She would gladly have found an occasion for
slander, and Percival read her hate of Judith in the cunning eyes which watched them both.
He felt that he had already been unwary, and his blood ran cold as he thought of possible gossip,
and the manner in which Lydia's insinuations would be made. Precious as those few days were,
he longed for the end. He thought more than once of leaving Bellevue street, but such a flight
was impossible. He was chained there by want of money. He could not pay his debt to Mrs. Bryant
for weeks, and he could not leave while it was unpaid. Day after day he withdrew himself more,
and grew almost cold in his reserve, hoping to escape from Lydia. One morning, as they passed
on the stairs, he looked back and caught a glance from Judith never intended to meet his eye--a
sad and wondering glance--which made his heart ache, even while filling it with the certainty
that he was needed. He answered only with another glance. It seemed to him to convey nothing
of what he felt, but nevertheless it woke a light in the girl's eyes. Moved by a quick impulse,
Percival looked up, and following his example, Judith lifted her head and saw Miss Bryant leaning
over the banisters and watching them with a curiosity which changed to an unpleasant smile
when she found herself observed. It was a revelation to Judith. She fled into her room, flushing
hotly with indignation against Lydia for her spitefully suggestive watchfulness; with shame
for herself that Percival's sense of her danger should have been keener than her own; and with
generous pride and confidence in him. Thus to have been guarded might have been an intolerable
humiliation, but Judith found some sweetness even in the sting. It was something new to her
to be cared for and shielded; and while she resolved to be more careful in future, her dominant
feeling was of disgust at the curiosity which could so misunderstand the truest and purest
of friendships. "He understands me, at any rate," said poor Judith to herself, painfully conscious
of her glowing cheeks. "He understands me: he will not think ill of me, but he shall never
have to fear for me again." It might be questioned whether Percival did altogether understand
her. If he did, he was more enlightened than Judith herself.

After that day she shrank from Percival, and they hardly saw each other till she left. She
knew his hours of going and coming, and was careful to remain in her room, though it might
be that the knowledge drew her to the window that looked into Bellevue street. As for Percival,
though he never sought her, it seemed to him that his sense of hearing was quickened. Judith's
footstep on the stairs was always distinct to him, and the tone of her voice if she spoke to
Miss Bryant or Emma was noted and remembered. It is true that this strained anxiety sometimes
made him an involuntary listener to gossip or household arrangements in which Miss Lisle took
no active part. One day there was a hurried conversation just outside his door.

"Did you give it to her?" said Lydia's voice.

Emma replied, "Yes'm."

"Open? Just as it came? Just as I gave it to you?"

Emma again replied, "Yes'm."

"Did she look surprised?"

"She gave a little jump, miss," said Emma deliberately, as if weighing her words, "and she
looked at it back and front."

"Well, what then? Go on."

"Oh! then she laid it down and said it was quite right, and she'd see about it."

Lydia laughed. "I think there'll be some more--" she said. Percival threw the tongs into the
fender, and the dialogue came to an abrupt termination. "She" who gave a little jump was Miss
Lisle, of course. But there would be some more--What? The young man revolved the matter gloomily
in his mind as he paced to and fro within the narrow limits of his room. A natural impulse
had caused him to interrupt Lydia's triumphant speech, which he knew was not intended for his
ears, but her laugh rang in the air and mocked him. What was the torture that she had devised
and whose effects she so curiously analyzed? There would be more--What?

He thought of it that night, he thought of it the next morning, and still he could not solve
the mystery. But as he came from the office in the middle of the day he passed his bootmaker's,
and the worthy man, who was holding the door open for a customer to go out, stopped him with
an apology. Percival's heart beat fast: never before had he stood face to face with a tradesman
and felt that he could not pay him what he owed. His bill had not yet been sent in, and the
man had never shown any inclination to hurry him, but he was evidently going to ask for his
money now. Percival controlled his face with an effort, prepared for the humiliating confession
of his poverty, and found that Mr. Robinson--with profuse excuses for the trouble he was giving--was
begging to be told Mr. Lisle's address.

"Mr. Lisle's address?" Thorne repeated the words, but as he did so the matter suddenly became
clear to him, and he went on easily: "Oh, I ought to have told you that Mr. Lisle's account
was to be sent to me. If you have it there, I'll take it."

Mr. Robinson fetched it with more apologies. He was impressed by the lofty carelessness with
which the young man thrust the paper into his pocket, and as Thorne went down the street the
little bootmaker looked after him with considerable admiration: "Any one can see he's quite
the gentleman, and so was the other. This one'll make his way too, see if he doesn't!" Mr.
Robinson imparted these opinions to Mrs. Robinson over their dinner, and was informed in return
that he wasn't a prophet, so he needn't think it, and the young men who gave themselves airs
and wore smart clothes weren't the ones to get on in the world; and Mrs. Robinson had no patience
with such nonsense.

Meanwhile, Percival had gone home with his riddle answered. More--What? More unsuspected debts,
more bills of Bertie's to be sent in to the poor girl who had been so happy in the thought
that, although their income was small, at least they owed nothing. Percival's heart ached as
he pictured Judith's start of surprise when Emma carried in the open paper, her brave smile,
her hurried assurance that it was all right, and Lydia laughing outside at the thought of more
to come. "She'll pay them all," said Percival to himself. "She won't take a farthing of that
girl's money. She'll die sooner than not pay them, but I incline to think she won't pay this
one." His mind was made up long before he reached Bellevue street. If by any sacrifice of pride
or comfort he could keep the privilege of helping Judith altogether to himself, he would do
so. If that were impossible he would get the money from Godfrey Hammond. But he felt doubtful
whether he should like Godfrey Hammond quite as well when he should have asked and received
this service at his hands. "I ought to like him all the better if he helped her when I couldn't
manage it. It would be abominably unjust if I didn't. In fact, I must like him all the better
for it: it stands to reason I must. I'll be shot if I should, though! and I don't much think
I could ever forgive him."

Percival found that the debt was a small one, and calculated that by a miracle of economy he
might pay it out of his salary at the end of the week. Consequently, he dined out two or three
days: at least he did not dine at home; but his dissipation did not seem to agree with him,
for he looked white and tired. Luckily, he had not to pay for his lodgings till Mrs. Bryant
came back, and he sincerely hoped that the good lady would be happy with her sister, Mrs. Smith,
till his finances were in better order. When he got his money he lost no time in settling Mr.
Robinson's little account, and was fortunate enough to intercept another, about which Mr. Brett
the tailor was growing seriously uneasy. He would not for the world have parted with the precious
document, but he began to wonder how he should extricate himself from his growing embarrassments.
Lydia--half suspicious, half laughing--made a remark about his continual absence from home.
"You are getting to be very gay, ain't you, Mr. Thorne?" she said; and she pulled her curl
with her old liveliness, and watched him while she spoke.

"Well, rather so: it does seem like it," he allowed.

"I think you'll be getting too fine for Bellevue street," said the girl: "I'm afraid we ain't
scarcely smart enough for you already."

Had she any idea how much he was in their power? Was this a taunt or a chance shot?

"Oh no, I think not," he said. "You see, Miss Bryant, I'm used to Bellevue street now. By the
way, I shall dine out again to-morrow."

"What! again to-morrow?" Lydia compressed her lips and looked at him. "Oh, very well: it is
a fine thing to have friends make so much of one," she said as she turned to leave the room.

Percival came home late the next evening. As he passed Judith's sitting-room the door stood
wide and revealed its desolate emptiness. Was she gone, absolutely gone? And he had been out
and had never had a word of farewell from her! Perhaps she had looked for him in the middle
of the day and wondered why he did not come. Down stairs he heard Lydia calling to the girl:
"Emma, didn't I tell you to put the 'Lodgings' card up in the windows as soon as Miss Lisle
was out of the house? It might just as well have been up before. What d'ye mean by leaving
it lying here on the table? You're enough to provoke a saint--that you are! How d'ye know a
score of people mayn't have been looking for lodgings to-day, and I dare say there won't be
one to-morrow. If ever there was a lazy, good-for-nothing--" The violent slamming of the kitchen-door
cut off the remainder of the discourse, but a shrill screaming voice might still be heard.
Percival was certain that the tide of eloquence flowed on undiminished, though of articulate
words he could distinguish none. It is to be feared that Emma was less fortunate.

It was true, then. Judith was gone, and that without a farewell look or touch of the hand to
mark the day! They had lived for months under the same roof, and, though days might pass without
granting them a glimpse of each other, the possibility of a meeting was continually with them.
It was only that night that Percival, sitting by his cheerless fireside, understood what that
possibility had been to him. He consoled himself as well as he could for his ignorance of the
hour of Judith's departure by reflecting that Lydia would have followed her about with malicious
watchfulness, and would either have played the spy at their interview or invented a parting
instead of that which she had not seen. "She can't gossip now," thought Percival.

Meanwhile, Lydia perceived, beyond a doubt, that they must have arranged some way of meeting,
since they had not taken the trouble to say "Good-bye."

  [TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE HARVESTING-ANTS OF FLORIDA.

In the low pine barrens of Florida are large districts thickly dotted over with small mounds
made by a species of ant whose habits are unknown to the scientific world. Each mound is surrounded
by a circle of small chips and pieces of charcoal, which the busy inhabitants often bring from
a long distance. The hills are regular in outline, with a crater-like depression on the summit,
in the centre of which is the gateway or entrance.

These ants do not live in vast communities like the mound-builders of the North, but each hill
seems to be a republic by itself, though separate colonies in the same neighborhood have friendly
relations with each other. Their color is rufous or reddish-brown, and they are furnished with
stings like bees and wasps, and, like the honey-bee, always die after inflicting a wound, for
their stings are torn from their bodies and left in the victim. The pain inflicted is about
the same as that caused by the sting of the honey-bee. But they are not as vicious as most
stinging insects: they will submit to considerable rough treatment before resorting to this
last resource.

There are three sets of neuters in each colony--major and minor workers and soldiers: also
one wingless queen is found in each nest. The head is very large, especially that of the soldier.[1]
The workers minor--which are the true workers--have regular well-defined teeth on the mandibles,
while most of the soldiers have merely the rudiments or teeth entirely obsolete. All the queens
which I have found--eighteen in number--have perfectly smooth mandibles, without the least
vestige of a tooth.

Early in December, 1877, I brought a large colony of these ants from one of the hills, including
the workers major and minor and soldiers, and established them in a glass jar which I placed
in my study. They very soon commenced work, tunnelling the earth and erecting a formicary,
as nearly as they could after the pattern of their home on the barrens. The mining was done
entirely by the small workers. At first they refused all animal food, but ate greedily fruit
and sugar, and all kinds of seeds which I gave them were immediately taken below, out of sight.
I now visited the mounds on the barrens and found abundant indications of their food-supplies.
At the base of each mound was a heap of chaff and shells of various kinds of seeds. The chaff
was Aristida speciformis, which grew plentifully all about. I also found many seeds of Euphorbia
and Croton, and several species of leguminous seeds. But the ants were not bringing seeds in
at this time of year: they were only carrying out the discarded seeds and chaff; and only on
the warmest days were they very active. But they do not wholly hibernate. Even after a frosty
night, by ten o'clock in the morning many of the hills would be quite active.

I sent specimens to the Rev. Dr. McCook of Philadelphia to be named, and he identified them
as Pogono myrmex crudelis, described by Smith as Atta crudelis[2] Dr. McCook predicted from
their close structural resemblance to the Texan "agricultural ant" that they would prove to
be harvesting-ants.

On excavating a nest I found chambers or store-rooms filled with various kinds of seeds. But,
so far as I have observed, the seeds are not eaten until they are swollen or sprouted, when
the outer covering bursts of itself. At this stage the starch is being converted into sugar,
and this seems to be what the ants are after. They also seemed to be very fond of the yellow
pollen-dust of the pine. The catkins of the long-leaved pine (Pinus australis) commenced falling
in February, and I noticed ants congregated on them; so I took those just ready to discharge
the pollen, and shook the dust on the mound in little heaps, which were soon surrounded by
ants, crowding and jostling each other in their eagerness to obtain a share.

The colony in the glass jar seemed perfectly contented, not trying to make their escape at
all. The earth was originally a little more than two inches in depth, but by the first of February
these wonderful architects had reared their domicile to the height of six inches. They raised
tier upon tier of chambers in so substantial a manner that they never fell in. One of the store-rooms
in which they deposited the seeds I gave them was at the bottom of the jar, and the seeds were
stored against the glass with no intervening earth between: it contained about a teaspoonful
of millet. I gave this chamber the right degree of heat and moisture to sprout the seed by
pouring a little water down the side of the jar until it penetrated the chamber, and then setting
it near the fire. The ants soon appreciated the condition of this store-room, and many congregated
there and seemed to be enjoying a feast. The next day the seeds were all brought to the surface
and deposited in a little heap on one side of the jar, where many of them grew, making a pretty
little green forest, which the ants soon cut down and destroyed. This chamber remained empty
for three or four days, and was then again refilled with fresh millet and apple and croton seeds.

I kept a small shell, which held about a tablespoonful of water, standing in the jar for the
ants to drink from. For more than a month the water was allowed to remain clear, the ants often
coming to the edge to drink; but one day one was walking on the edge of the shell, and carrying
an apple-seed, when she lost her footing and rolled into the water. She floundered about for
a few moments, still holding on to the seed: at last she let it drop and crawled out. As soon
as she had divested herself of the surplus water, she consulted several of her companions,
and they immediately went to work and filled up the shell, first throwing in four or five apple-seeds,
and then filling in with earth; and ever after, as often as I cleared out the shell and put
in fresh water, it would be filled with earth, sticks and seeds; and they now served all sweet
liquids which I gave them in the same way, sipping the syrup from the moistened earth.

Like other ants, they are very fastidious about removing their dead companions. I buried one
about half an inch beneath the soil. Very soon several congregated about the spot and commenced
digging with their fore feet, after the manner of digger-wasps, throwing the earth backward.
They soon unearthed and pulled the body out, when one seized and tried to remove it, climbing
up the side of the jar, and falling back until I relieved her of the burden.

From time to time I add new recruits of soldiers and workers to the jar. This always causes
a little confusion for a few moments: there is a quick challenging with antennæ, but no fighting,
and soon all are working harmoniously together. I found three half-drowned, chilled ants near
the mound from which most of the inhabitants of the jar were taken. One was not only wet and
chilled, but also covered with sand. These I put on a small leaf and placed in the centre of
the jar. The genial warmth soon revived them. Many of their old companions clustered around
them, and there seemed to be considerable consultation. The two wet ants were soon made welcome,
and, leaving the leaf, were conducted by their comrades--from whom they had been separated
for more than two months--to the rooms below. But the one covered with sand--a major--did not
meet with so kindly a reception. She still remained on the leaf trying to cleanse herself.
All the ants had left her save one, who was determined to quarrel with her. I removed this
one, and now another came up, bit at her and annoyed her until I removed this one also. Then
some half dozen congregated about the leaf, touching her with their antennæ and walking round
her. By this time she was nearly free from the sand, and was looking quite bright, strutting
about the leaf in a threatening attitude, with her mandibles wide apart. She was not attacked
by these last inspectors, though still looked upon a little suspiciously. I then returned the
two quarrelsome ants: they immediately walked up to their unfortunate comrade, and now seemed
to be satisfied that she was a respectable ant, and admitted her into the community with no
further challenging.

I found a nest of large carpenter-ants (Camponotus atriceps, var. esuriens, Smith) which had
made their home in fallen timber. Upon examining their work, it was evident they must have
strong tools to work with, for the numerous rooms and chambers of their domicile were often
made in firm, hard wood. They are the largest, most vicious species I have ever seen. I introduced
one of these terrible creatures into the jar among the quiet, peaceful occupants. A large worker
major immediately closed with her: it was so quickly done that I could not tell which was the
attacking party. They rolled about a few moments in a close embrace, till they rolled out of
sight through the wide entrance to one of the rooms below. There was considerable excitement
and increased activity among the workers, who were constantly bringing to the surface bits
of earth which the struggling warriors had loosened. In about an hour the head of the carpenter
was brought out, divested of every member: both the antennæ and palpi were gone, cut close
to the head. A little later the abdomen was brought out, and still later the thorax with not
an entire leg left.

Several times during the months of January and February I introduced into the jar a number
of half-grown larvæ of the harvester. Without any hesitation they were quickly carried to the
rooms below by the workers minor. On the 4th of February I found a large number of the larvæ
of the carpenter-ant (Camponotus meleus, Say). They were very small, and closely packed together
in a chamber cut out of hard wood, two inches in length and an inch and a quarter in diameter,
nearly circular. It was packed full of larvæ and eggs, the larvæ apparently just hatched. I
detached a small mass, all stuck together, and placed them in the jar with the harvesters.
The workers minor immediately surrounded the mass, touching it with their antennæ, and then
retreated backward, passing their fore legs over the head and antennæ, as if the larvæ were
obnoxious to them. Great commotion ensued, followed by an apparent consultation lasting a few
moments; but soon the usual quietness reigned, and most of the ants left the helpless larvæ
and returned to their mining and to the storing away of seeds or feeding their own young. But
two or three had not entirely deserted the young carpenters. Again and again they touched them,
and then retreated, cleansing the antennæ as they moved backward. At last one seized the mass
and held it in her mandibles, standing nearly in an upright position. Several workers now surrounded
her, picked the larvæ off, one by one, and carried them below, until all were separated and
disposed of.

But by far the most satisfactory way of studying the ants is in their native haunts on the
barrens, where I had ten nests under observation. One of these was so situated that it received
the direct rays of the sun all day, and was protected from north and east winds by dense, low
shrubbery. On sunny days, even with a cool wind from the north, when taking my seat in this
sheltered spot, I would soon become uncomfortably warm. This hill was always active whenever
I visited it, while in other localities the ants would often be all housed. Around this active
nest I stuck stems of millet eighteen inches high, surmounted by the close-packed heads. The
ants climbed the stems, loosened and secured the seeds, and stored them within the nest. They
worked vigorously, sometimes twenty or more on one head pulling away at the seeds. In my artificial
formicary they did not mount the stems, even when the heads were not more than three or four
inches from the ground, but seeds that I scattered in the jar were always taken below.

I threw down a handful of apple-seeds near the entrance of the active hill on the barrens.
This immediately attracted a large number of excited ants. They rushed to the seeds in a warlike
attitude, and began carrying them off, depositing them two or three feet away. But as soon
as the excitement caused by the sudden pouring down of the seeds had subsided, they seemed
to comprehend that they had been throwing away good seeds; and now, changing their tactics,
not only carried the remainder into the nest, but finally brought back and stored all those
that had been thrown away.

On excavating the nests we found granaries of seed scattered irregularly throughout to the
depth of twenty-two inches below the surface of the ground: some were near the surface, and
a few sprouted seeds were scattered about in the mound. The mound is usually not more than
four to six inches above the level of the ground.

The great majority of nests that I have found are in the low pine barrens--so low that on reaching
the depth of two feet the water runs into the cavity like a spring, and stands above some of
the granaries. Notwithstanding this wet locality, I found no sprouted seeds in the deeper store-rooms,
but only in the warmer mound. On sunny days the larvæ are brought up into the mound and deposited
in chambers near the surface, where they receive the benefit of the sun's rays. On cool, cloudy
days and in the early morning I found no larvæ near the surface. If the ants are intelligent
enough to treat the larvæ in this way, why should they not store seeds where they will not
sprout? And when they need to sprout them in order to obtain the sugar they contain, it would
take no more wisdom to treat the seed as they do the larvæ--bringing them near the surface
to obtain the right degree of heat for the required result.

The little workers seem very determined not to allow any green thing to grow on their mounds.
Cassia and croton and many other plants start to grow from seeds which the ants have dropped,
but they are always cut down and destroyed if too near the mound, though allowed to grow at
a little distance; so that a botanist would be astonished at the great variety of plants within
a small area if not aware of the source from which they came. I sometimes found small shrubs
of Kalmia hirsuta and Hypericums entirely dead on the mounds, the roots completely girdled
in many places. It is very amusing to watch them in their efforts to destroy grass and other
plants. Their determined persistence is remarkable: they cut off the tender blades and throw
them away. But they do not stop here: the roots must be exterminated; so several dig around
the plant, throwing the earth backward, and after making it bare they cut and girdle the roots
until the plant is killed.

Early in March the ants in the jar seemed to have completed their domicile. At first, several
chambers were visible through the glass, and the galleries leading to them, but gradually the
light was all shut out by placing little particles of earth against the glass, thus depriving
me of the opportunity of watching their movements within the nest. So I now took the jar to
the barrens, and set it by the side of a nest which was about a mile distant from where most
of the ants were obtained. Here I carefully broke it, and took the thin shell of glass from
around the nest, which did not fall, but stood six inches in height and eighteen inches in
circumference. With a large knife I removed a thin layer of earth, which revealed three admirable
chambers with galleries leading from one to the other. Immediately below there were five chambers
well filled with ants, and below these other chambers were scattered irregularly throughout,
with only thin partitions between.

At various times I had given the ants moistened sugar on the thick curved leaves of the live-oak,
and several of these had been covered while the ants were making their excavations. Two of
the leaves were three inches below the surface, and the ants had utilized them by making the
inner curved surface answer for the floor and sides of fine chambers; and here a large number
of ants, both soldiers and workers, were crowded together. In other chambers I found the larvæ,
which were greatly increased in size since I had placed them in the jar; and the larvæ of the
carpenter-ant were being reared, as I found some smaller than any I had introduced belonging
to the harvester.

Very soon a great crowd of excited ants came from the hill near which I had broken the jar,
and began to transport the larvæ, and also the mature ants, to their own dominions. There was
no fighting: the ants from the jar submitted to being carried, not offering the least resistance.
A small worker would often take hold of a large soldier, sometimes pushing, sometimes dragging,
her through the sand, and she would be as quiet as if dead or dying; but if we touch the little
worker she leaves her burden and rushes about to see what the interference means; and now the
soldier straightens up, as bright and lively as the rest, and after passing her fore legs over
her head and body, goes of her own accord into the new nest, meeting with no opposition. Some
of the ants would coil up and allow themselves to be carried easily. Others were led along
by an antenna or a leg, in either case manifesting no resistance. For three hours I watched
the proceeding, and could see no fighting. It looked precisely as if the inhabitants of the
jar realized their helpless condition, and gladly submitted to be taken prisoners or to become
partners with this new firm.

I left them, and after the lapse of two hours again visited the spot. The seeds that had been
in the jar were now being transferred to the other nest, and two new entrances at the base
of the mound were being made. And now every little while an ant would be ejected from the nest.
One worker would bring another out and lay her down, often not more than three inches away
from the door, but, so far as I could see, she was in no wise injured. Her first movement was
to make herself presentable by passing her fore legs over her head and body: as soon as this
was completed she returned within the nest. But there was one large soldier which the whole
community seemed combined against. She was led or dragged away from the entrance of the nest
eight times, and each time left at the base of the mound among the rubbish. Sometimes she was
led or carried by one alone, sometimes two or three would conduct her, and then leave her,
when she would at once proceed to make her toilet; which completed, she would again return
to the door of the nest, when she would be again conducted away, offering no resistance. I
now picked her up, which made her very fierce. She seized my glove with her powerful mandibles,
and held on with a persistency equal to the most vicious species, at the same time trying to
use her sting. As soon as I could free her from the glove I secured her, and on reaching home
placed her under the microscope, and found she was not injured and had strong teeth in her
mandibles.

On the next day I returned her to the nest, and again she was met by the indignant police at
the door and conducted away. With her strong mandibles she could have crushed any number of
her small assailants, but in no instance did she show the least disposition to rebel against
the indignities to which she was subjected. She was often dragged away with her back on the
ground and her legs coiled up, apparently helpless. If all the soldiers had been treated in
this way, it would not have been so remarkable, but so far as I could see the rest were allowed
to remain, going in and out of the nest as if taking a survey of their new surroundings.

For five months I had these ants under almost constant observation, and yet I was unable to
make out the true position of the soldiers in the colony. They stay mostly within the nest.
On the warmest days a few will come out and walk leisurely around the mound. They are not scattered
irregularly through the nest, but seem to be housed together in large chambers. In one of these
chambers I found a wingless queen in their midst. It seemed very fitting for a queen to be
surrounded by Amazon soldiers; but, alas! they seemed more like maids of honor than soldiers,
for they forsook the royal lady without making an effort to defend her. Not so, however, with
the little workers: they rallied around her, ready to guard her with their lives, and no doubt
would have succeeded had it been any ordinary foe.

This phenomenon--the soldiers and queens with smooth mandibles--is very puzzling, and has excited
much interest among naturalists both in this country and in Europe. I sent specimens to Mr.
Charles Darwin, which he forwarded to Mr. Frederick Smith of the British Museum (who, Mr. Darwin
informs me, is the highest authority in Europe on ants and other Hymenoptera). Mr. Smith says:
"Your observations on the structural differences in the mandibles of this ant are quite new
to me." I also sent specimens to the eminent naturalist Dr. Auguste Forel of Munich, who, like
Mr. Smith, had never observed this feature of the mandibles in any ant; but he has a theory
to account for it--that the smooth mandibles have been worn down by labor. If this theory is
true, how can we account for the fact that other ants do not wear down their teeth? The chitinous
covering of this harvesting-ant is firm and hard. The stage forceps of my microscope closes
with a spring, and in studying this ant I have put thousands of individuals to the test, holding
them in the forceps to examine their mandibles, and in no instance do I recollect seeing one
injured, while many other species are easily injured by the forceps. Among these are the two
large species of carpenter-ant before mentioned, which work in stumps or fallen timber. These
ants all have well-developed teeth, and the shell-like covering enveloping the body is much
thinner than that of the harvesting-ant.

If it be urged that hard wood will not wear down the teeth like mining in the sandy soil, I
can bring forward another member of this family (Camponotus socius, Roger), which lives in
the ground, and whose mining and tunnelling are on a much more extensive scale than those of
the harvesting-ant. The formicary of this Camponotus often extends over several square rods,
with large entrances at various points, all connected by underground galleries, requiring a
great amount of labor to construct them; while each colony of the harvesting-ant has a close,
compact nest or formicary, requiring much less work to construct it. The worker major of Camponotus
socius is very large--larger than the soldier of the harvesting-ant. The formicaries of the
two species are often in close contact, so that the nature of the soil is precisely the same.
I have examined thousands of Camponotus socius, and in no instance have I found the teeth worn
down.

There is still another difficulty in the way of Dr. Forel's theory. Careful observations have
revealed the fact that all the harvesting-ants that engage in work of any kind are armed with
teeth. I took thirty soldiers with smooth mandibles, put them in a glass jar with every facility
for making a nest, but they refused to work, scorned all my offers of food, and remained huddled
together for three days. I then introduced several workers minor, and they immediately commenced
tunnelling the earth and making chambers, into which the lazy soldiers crawled, meeting with
no opposition from these industrious little creatures. My experiments did not stop here. I
now took about a hundred specimens--soldiers and a few workers major, the last with partially-developed
teeth--and placed them in a jar. Some of these made feeble attempts to construct a nest, but
they did not store away seeds, and larvæ which I put in the jar they carried about as if not
knowing what to do with them.

There is every appearance of an aristocracy among these humble creatures. The minors are the
servants who do the work, while the queens and soldiers (especially the soldiers, which more
nearly approach the queen in shape of head and mandibles) seem to live a life of comparative
ease, and have their food brought to them by the minors. This may be the reason of the non-development
of the teeth among the aristocracy. But how the same parent can produce such differing offspring--some
born to a life of ease, with obsolete teeth, and others with well-developed teeth to do the
work--is one of the mysteries in Nature. The only way to settle the point with regard to the
mandibles beyond dispute is to find the pupæ of very young queens and soldiers, which I was
unable to do during my stay in Florida. All the young were in the larval state.

  MARY TREAT.

DOCTEUR ALPHÈGE.

"Marcelline! Marcelline! viens m'aider: je souffre!"

The voice was thin and querulous, but painfully weak, and the stalwart, broad-shouldered negress
to whom the cry was addressed had an anxious, startled look on her usually stolid face as she
turned away from the open door and went into the sick room.

"My poor mistress," she said tenderly in French, raising in her arms as she spoke the attenuated
form of the suffering woman before her and rearranging her pillows, "you feel very bad to-day:
I knew you did just now when you were asleep and I heard you groaning. I wish--bon Dieu!--I
wish I could do something for you."

The invalid made no reply for a minute, but gazed piteously up into the other's face. She was
a woman of about fifty, who even in the last stages of emaciation and weakness showed traces
of wonderful beauty. The sharp, drawn features were as clear and fine as those of a model,
and even now the sweetness and brilliancy of her dark-blue eyes were little diminished. But
pain of some kind and utter prostration held her in their grip, and she made several attempts
to speak before she said, in a hoarse whisper, "Thou canst help me, child. Food, Marcelline!
food, for the love of God!"

The negress started, knit her brows and murmured anxiously, "Oh, my dear mistress, anything
but that! Think what would happen to me and my children if--if--"--she seemed almost afraid
even to whisper the name, but sank her voice to the lowest tone as she continued--"if Mons.
Alphège were to find me out. Attends!" she added aloud and coaxingly: "it will soon be time
for your supper now: when the bell rings you are to have some milk, and the sun is almost down."

The sick woman groaned and lay quite still, but when, in a few minutes, a clanging plantation-bell
rang the joyful announcement that the day's work was over, she grasped the milk which Marcelline
brought her like one famished, and drained it without breathing. It was a short draught, after
all, for the cup was only half full, but Marcelline turned away with a shiver from the imploring
eyes and outstretched hands, which asked her to replenish it, and, as though unable to endure
the sight of suffering which she could not alleviate, went out upon the open gallery and sat
down on the steps.

The room was on the ground floor, and the house was an old-fashioned creole dwelling, long
and low, with many doors and innumerable little staircases--everything in disorder and out
of repair, and weeds and grass growing up to the threshold. There was a well-stocked and carefully-tended
vegetable garden not a hundred yards off: the poultry-yards, dove-cotes and smoke-houses were
as full as they could hold, and over yonder, just behind the tall picket fence, were corn-cribs
bursting with corn and hay-lofts choked with hay. Fifty or sixty negro hovels, irregularly
grouped together down by the bayou-side, and indistinctly seen in the fading twilight, contained
about three hundred slaves, who, having trooped in from the field at the sound of the bell,
were now eating pork and hominy as fast as they could swallow. But no one would have guessed
that all this abundance was at hand, or that this was the homestead of one of the richest creole
families in the State. Yet it was so. Old Madame Levassour--or Madame Hypolite, as she was
invariably called--was not only the widow of a wealthy planter, but had been herself a great
heiress, perhaps the greatest in the whole South, at the time of her marriage. The property
had gone on appreciating, as slave property did in old times, and now that she was lying at
the point of death, her two daughters, who had married brothers, and, like all true creoles,
still lived at home with their mother, would soon be enormously rich. They were well off already
by inheritance from their father, and each owned a valuable plantation and many slaves; but
these were nothing compared to the possessions of their mother, who was an excellent business-woman,
full of energy, prudence and moderation, and never weak or capricious, especially where the
interests of others were concerned. She had always been a kind and indulgent mistress to her
slaves, who loved her in return with passionate fidelity, and many were the sighs and tears
their approaching change of owners produced among them. Her sons-in-law were educated men,
of good birth and moderate fortune; but negroes are the best judges of character in the world,
and there was not a trait or feeling concealed under the quiet, nonchalant exterior of Mons.
Volmont Cherbuliez which they did not thoroughly understand. About his brother Alphège, who
was a physician, there was more diversity of opinion. That he also was bad, cruel, dissipated,
profoundly deceitful, there was no doubt in the minds of his future chattels, but what precise
form his idiosyncrasies would take they felt to be uncertain, and gazed with terror--all the
more acute for being somewhat vague--at his cold, impassive face. In the mean time, nothing
could be more irreproachable than the demeanor of the two brothers. Dr. Alphège was known to
be a man of great skill, a graduate of the medical schools of Paris and always interested in
the practice of his profession. He devoted himself to his mother-in-law now with unfailing
assiduity, and when her disease--which he pronounced to be a dangerous gastric affection--baffled
his utmost efforts, he sent for advice and assistance even to New Orleans; which, thirty years
ago in South-western Louisiana, was quite an enterprise. His fellow-physicians agreed with
him in his management of the case, and the daughters and friends of Madame Hypolite, though
deeply grieved by her illness, felt that nothing more could be done. As is usual in diseases
of the stomach, her suffering was very great, and the most rigid care had to be exercised in
the choice and administration of nourishment. On her food, said Dr. Alphège, he depended for
the only hope of a cure: consequently, the rules which he laid down must be, and were, enforced
in the most rigid manner. The penalty of transgressing his orders was always severe, but now
the fiat went forth that any one of the nurses or attendants upon Madame Hypolite who should
depart from his carefully-explained orders in the minutest particular should receive a punishment
such as had never been administered in that household before.

One of the marked features of creole life was always the immense number of house-servants,
and in a long illness such as Madame Hypolite was now experiencing many attendants and various
nurses seemed a matter of course. Therefore the doctor's orders were doubly necessary, and
would in all cases have been entirely correct, since the first element of good nursing is implicit
obedience. Still, with all this care, she did not improve, and in the evening of which we write
her two daughters, Mesdames Volmont and Alphège (for a creole never gets his or her last name
except in legal documents), were sitting on the gallery not far from where Marcelline crouched
on the steps, rocking themselves backward and forward to keep off the mosquitoes and talking
over the aspect of affairs. They were both extremely pretty women, and very much alike. Euphrosyne
(Madame Volmont) was a year or two the older, but still not more than twenty-two or three.
She had been married at fourteen, and her oldest boy was nearly eight, but she seemed not more
than sixteen now; while Clothilde (Madame Alphège), who, although married at the same age,
was childless, looked even younger; and any stranger seeing them this evening in their soft
white cambric dresses, little high-heeled red slippers and floating ribbons, would have taken
them for a couple of pretty, dark-eyed, lazy school-girls enjoying their holiday.

Marcelline listened to them as they talked, at first with the same intent, peculiar expression
she had worn in the sick room, but gradually her features relaxed as she heard their harmless
chatter, subdued so as not to disturb the sufferer near by, but full of little childish gossip
and kindly details of daily life. After talking for a few minutes about Dr. Alphège's last
report, which was that some slight improvement was visible, Clothilde asked her sister with
much interest if she had finished the novena she was making, and on being answered in the affirmative
said that she would begin one herself on Monday.

"Bien!" said Euphrosyne. "If you will make a novena I will burn two more candles, and get Père
Ramain to say three masses for my intention in honor of the Blessed Trinity."

"Say the novena with me," suggested Clothilde, fanning and rocking, and speaking less distinctly
than usual because her mouth was full of candy.

"Indeed, I cannot," replied Euphrosyne: "my knees are black and blue now. I told Père Ramain
yesterday that if he could just see them he would not make me kneel again for a week."

As she spoke a horse's step was heard on the grass, and Volmont Cherbuliez galloped lightly
up over the turf. As he jumped down and threw the reins to half a dozen nearly naked little
black fellows who were at his heels, his wife rose to meet him affectionately, and with her
hand on his shoulder said in a low tone of genuine delight, "Cher ami, you will be so glad
to hear that mamma is really better to-night!" She was not looking at him, but even in the
darkness, which was now that of a starlit summer evening, Marcelline could see the slight start
and change of expression with which he heard her. He said nothing, however, but kissed her
hand with as much gallantry as though he was still faisant la cour to "mademoiselle," and they
all passed into the dining-room together. This, as was the custom in all such houses, was also
the common sitting-room of the family, or rather, when the weather was too cold to sit on the
galleries and they had occasion to leave their bedrooms, it was here they met. As a rule, the
women invariably occupied their sleeping apartments, and never thought of leaving them except
for the open gallery or at meal-times. Here they received their friends, sewed, embroidered,
gossiped and told their beads. Two large double beds were the ordinary complement of each room,
and, what with large family connections and frequent visitors, it was rare indeed to find one
not in use. Owing to this habit on the part of the women, and the fact that no Creole planter
ever spent two consecutive minutes in his house during the daytime if he could possibly help
it, the dining-room was as dreary a spot as could be imagined. A long, narrow table covered
with oilcloth and surmounted by a huge punkah, a number of straight wooden chairs and a square
red cupboard comprised all the furniture, the whole dimly lighted by two candles. The Cherbuliez
family, however, as they sat down to supper, seemed to feel no deficiency, and ate and drank
merrily, especially when Madame Volmont's three children came in and were bountifully helped
to everything on the table, including ripe figs, cucumbers, melons and gumbo choux. As they
were all lingering over the table and wondering why Alphège did not come in, he suddenly appeared,
looking very pale and tired. Without stopping even to say "Good-evening," he passed directly
through into the room beyond, where Madame Hypolite was lying, and was heard questioning Marcelline
rapidly as to his patient's condition. When he at last sat down to his supper he looked like
a man overworked bodily indeed, but with a great weight suddenly removed from his mind; and
Clothilde, who was an enfant gâtée to him as to others, exclaimed joyfully, "Oh, Alphège, maman
is really better--elle va se guérir, elle est hors de danger, n'est ce pas?" And she came behind
him and put her arms round his neck as he tried to eat, and gave him a joyful embrace.

Whatever the dark secrets of his soul might be, at which so many dimly guessed, Alphège Cherbuliez
was invariably tender and considerate to his wife; and now, as he gently disengaged the little
hands that were throttling him from his throat, he said kindly, but with a gravity which always
awed and restrained her, "I think she is better, my dear, but it is impossible to predict in
such cases; and all we can do is to wait and hope."

As he spoke, his brother, who had lighted a cigarette and was sitting opposite with his youngest
child on his knee, looked up. The gaze of the two men met. On the bronzed cheek of Volmont
came a slight flush, and his eyes had an expression for the moment of fear and appeal. But
the dark, handsome face of Alphège maintained its cold, inscrutable composure, and the look
before which his brother's slowly fell was magnetic in its steady strength.

A little later, as they smoked together on the steps their last cigar before retiring, Volmont
asked in a sudden low whisper, "Did you succeed?" and Alphège said slowly aloud, "Yes: they
will wait two weeks longer."

"Hadst thou trouble, my brother?"

The other paused a moment, and then said, "Yes: they were inclined to insist. They have been
a long time out of their money, mon ami, and when this danger is over we shall do well to avoid
another--with them."

"What did you promise?" asked Volmont, as if reassured by his brother's tone.

"I promised," said Alphège, carefully rolling the end of his cigar, but this time dropping
his voice, "that in a fortnight the notes should be taken up."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was midnight, and the house was entirely silent and dark except where one shaded candle
burned in the sick room. Down at the "quarters," as the negro cabins were called, every one
was literally locked in slumber, and it must have been a loud and prolonged noise which should
have awakened those tired sleepers. But some one was stirring, for all that, and had the moon
been shining ever so faintly it would have been a dangerous task for those two gliding, crouching
figures to move across the open green beyond the stable as they were doing. But the night was
safely dark: a soft gray scud from the Gulf was flying rapidly in, obscuring even the dim starlight,
and no one saw them as they passed through the turngate in the fence and sat down close to
the water's edge under the overhanging trunk of a huge water-oak.

"Now we are safe," said the woman, throwing back her coarse shawl; "and I tell you, Pierre,
you must listen to me, and I must speak, or some day I shall just burst out and go screaming
my dreadful news from one end of the parish to the other."

The speaker was Marcelline, and the man who listened to her a huge raw-boned mulatto of that
square-jawed, vindictive-looking type which is the manifest offspring of foul oppression and
long-continued wrong.

But he shrank appalled from the tremendous energy of the woman beside him. "Hush--sh!" he said
in a warning whisper and with an apprehensive glance into the still darkness around. "Don't
talk so loud, you fool! or I'll choke the d----d black blood out of you."

The woman lowered her voice, but paid no other heed to his menace as she went on in the same
earnestly-excited manner. "Listen, Pierre!" she said, grasping him by the arm and speaking
with an amount of decision which even he could not withstand. "Do you love la bonne maîtresse?
Do you care for her to live or die? Dis-moi, dis ce que tu veux!"

The man answered slowly, as if the words were forced from him against his will, but still with
an accent of truth and a certain amount of energy: "Love her? Jesu! yes, I do love her. It
seems drôle for one of us to talk about loving these cursed whites, who treat us worse than
dogs; but, for all that, I do love madame."

The woman almost shook him as she said in a whisper of concentrated fury, "Who saved your life,
Pierre Lambas, when you were perishing with smallpox? Who went to New Orleans to buy your wife
and children from a cruel master and bring them here to you? Who watched by Sophie when she
was in convulsions?"

Her voice broke and her fingers relaxed their hold, but this time Pierre answered without hesitation:
"C'était-elle, je le sais bien--I know it well."

"Then," pursued Marcelline, "you are willing to stand by and see her slowly murdered, inch
by inch, by this white-faced devil, who leans over her and professes to love her, but is killing
her--killing her, Dieu des dieux!--with hunger and thirst?" Her voice shook so that she could
scarcely speak as she concluded.

"How do I know," asked Pierre slowly, after a long pause, "that what you think about this may
not be a mistake?" Marcelline made an impatient gesture, but he went calmly on: "They say Mons.
Alphège is a good doctor, and that he is fond of sa belle-mère. How can I take a man's life
on a mere suspicion?"

She almost flew at him in her frenzy, but the darkness so shielded her that he did not see
the movement, which was as well. She controlled herself instantly, and only said in reply,
"Thou hast not been always so careful of white life, mon ami--so unwilling to shed white blood."

"Ah, bah!" retorted he: "that was when I could not be detected, and when more than life was
in question. But now to kill this man would be to suffer death myself in the next hour, and
to know that my wife and children were punished as well. Besides," he continued, as if trying
to reason with her, "you have told me nothing which convinces me that what you say is true."

"Listen, then," she said, raising her head, which had sunk upon her breast. "You do not believe
that he is starving her to death: you think she has all the food required by one in her weak
and perishing condition. You think her cries, her prayers, her agony of desire for nourishment--for
nourishment!--are only the result of sickness, and that if she had it she could not eat. Bien!
Every morning, when I go into her room to dress her blisters with fresh poultices, I find the
old ones torn off and eaten up! Tell me, Pierre, have any of our kin, in their worst straits
of hunger and suffering, done worse than that?"

She spoke in a low voice, but it was freighted with such an intensity of horror and misery
that the man beside her could not speak for an instant. When he did, he said in tones of the
deepest feeling, "Ma pauvre maîtresse! ma pauvre maîtresse!"

"Do you still refuse?" hissed Marcelline.

The answer was compassionate, but resolved: "I do, Marcelline. Not even for her sake can I
risk all. You know I have nearly saved enough money to buy my freedom. Once free, I shall soon
purchase Sophie and the young ones: I cannot abandon such hopes even to save her."

There was a moment's silence. "May God help me, then!" said the woman as she rose, "for I swear
by the Blessed Sacrament to save her if she be still alive--to revenge her if she be dead."

       *       *       *       *       *

Three days later a long funeral cortége passed from the gates of the Levassour plantation and
took its way along the dusty road toward the Catholic church of the settlement, some three
miles off. In and out between the massive green walls of shining Cherokee rose-vines, which
formed impenetrable barriers on either side of the way, wound the long line of old-fashioned
chariots with black coachmen in queer, antiquated liveries, preceded by the tawdry French hearse
with its numerous gilt devices and huge nodding plumes. The pitiless sun beat down upon them,
and the blinding clouds of dust rose and choked them, but the mourners, both black and white,
who formed the procession--and it was closed by a throng of weeping negroes on foot--were too
much interested and absorbed in their melancholy task to feel either the one or the other,
for such an occasion as this had never taken place in all that quiet country-side before. Inside
of that hearse, in a snow-white coffin covered with flowers and gayly decorated with cut paper,
silver crosses and waxen saints, reposed the mortal remains of Madame Hypolite Levassour, who
had died at midnight thirty-six hours previously; and by her side in another coffin, more hastily
contrived, lay the body of her well-beloved son-in-law and physician, Docteur Alphège Cherbuliez,
who within six hours after her death had been killed by a shot-gun in the hands of an unknown
assassin. Two negro men, Gérard Grôl and Pierre Lambas, had been arrested on strong suspicion,
and were now in close confinement awaiting the trial which both knew would be short, sharp
and swift, and administered by a judge who would not wait for legal proceedings to assist or
confirm his decisions. Circumstantial evidence was strong against them, and the two unfortunate
wretches were not more conscious that the sun was shining in heaven, making the narrow caboose
in which they had been confined an unendurable, suffocating den of heat, than they were that
when the dead were buried and grief was satisfied vengeance would make sudden and terrible
work with them.

When the church was reached the carriages drew up in double ranks around the broad green meadow
in which it stood, and the occupants, descending, filed in motley array into the building.
Just in front of the altar two tressels were prepared for the coffins, which were not brought
in until the whole congregation, which filled the pews to overflowing, was seated. Then the
measured tramp of men was heard, and amid general weeping and lamentation the pall-bearers
entered, and the priest, advancing from the foot of the altar, sprinkled with holy water first
one coffin and then the other as they were placed before him, while the choir chanted softly
the "De Profundis." Everything proceeded quietly as usual through the beautiful services for
the burial of the dead, and the cool, dark church, with its mingled odor of incense and flowers,
became more and more quiet as the soothing influences crept over the hearts of those assembled
there. Mass was over, and the priest, coming out from the chancel, knelt before the tall crucifix
which stood at the foot of the coffins and began the most touching of all prayers, "Non intres
in judicium," when a sudden movement was heard at the lower end of the church, a stifled cry
of alarm instantly hushed, and in another moment Marcelline, who had followed the cortége,
like the other servants, on foot, walked slowly and with a perfectly composed and steady step
up the aisle, made her reverence to the Host which was concealed in the tabernacle before her,
and then stood facing the priest, who without pausing finished his prayer and rose from his knees.

"What wouldst thou have, my daughter," he asked with dignity, "that thou dost disturb the holy
services of the Church?"

There was a slight pause. Marcelline seemed to steady herself: then putting her hand on the
coffin of Alphège Cherbuliez, she said in a high, monotonous voice which rang through the building
and reached even the watchers on the green without, "I killed Doctor Alphège Cherbuliez with
my own hands. No one helped me and no one saw me. You can turn Pierre Lambas and Gérard Grôl
loose."

There was a sudden stir like the rushing of a mighty wind through the church, but the priest
waved his hand and the people were still.

"What was your motive?" he asked without moving.

The woman had never turned her head, and now answered him in the same overstrained key: "He
starved my mistress to death. I saw her slowly dying of hunger and thirst day after day, and
I made up my mind to kill him as soon as I could get the chance. I had to wait and wait," she
went on, her voice sinking a little, "till at last it was too late."

She stopped, suddenly stooped and kissed her mistress's coffin: then wheeling round and facing
the congregation, who sat spellbound, she shook her clenched fist at them. "Ah!" she said,
speaking in a terrible voice, "you knew, you must have known--friends and cousins and brothers,
ay, daughters too--that bread--bread!--was what she wanted. Who heard her cry for food? Who
heard her beg and pray and implore for one little sip of milk, one little bite of meat?" Her
voice rose to a shriek as she went on, but such was the force of her passion that no effort
was made to check her: "You, all of you--all heard, all saw, all knew, yet none had courage
to act; and now, c'est moi! c'est moi!" striking her breast violently with both hands, "la
pauvre esclave, qui l'ai vengée!"

She paused: there was a dead silence. Instantly a ring of men closed round her: she was swept
from the church, so swiftly was she borne away, and the service proceeded.

The priest looked pale, and sent two or three messages to those without, but they were of no
avail. Before he could leave the altar, which he did as hurriedly as possible, Marcelline was
hanging from the limb of an oak tree within sight of the church, her last words being, "God
will forgive me: I did right." But bitter were the tears Père Ramain shed when he found she
had gone to her last account unshriven and unabsolved.

  ANNIE PORTER.

SYMPHONIC STUDIES.

(AFTER ROBERT SCHUMANN.)

PRELUDE

          Blue storm-clouds in hot heavens of mid-July
            Hung heavy, brooding over land and sea:
            Our hearts, a-tremble, throbbed in harmony
          With the wild, restless tone of air and sky.
          Shall we not call him Prospero who held
            In his enchanted hands the fateful key
            Of that tempestuous hour's mystery,
          And with controlling wand our spirits spelled,
          With him to wander by a sun-bright shore,
            To hear fine, fairy voices, and to fly
          With disembodied Ariel once more
            Above earth's wrack and ruin? Far and nigh
          The laughter of the thunder echoed loud,
          And harmless lightnings leapt from cloud to cloud.

          I.

          Floating upon a swelling wave of sound,
            We seemed to overlook an endless sea:
            Poised 'twixt clear heavens and glittering surf were we.
          We drank the air in flight: we knew no bound
          To the audacious ventures of desire.
            Nigh us the sun was dropping, drowned in gold;
            Deep, deep below the burning billows rolled;
          And all the sea sang like a smitten lyre.
          Oh, the wild voices of those chanting waves!
            The human faces glimpsed beneath the tide!
          Familiar eyes gazed from profound sea-caves,
            And we, exalted, were as we had died.
          We knew the sea was Life, the harmonious cry
          The blended discords of humanity.

          II.

          Look deeper yet: mark 'midst the wave-blurred mass,
            In lines distinct, in colors clear defined,
            The typic groups and figures of mankind.
          Behold within the cool and liquid glass
          Bright child-folk sporting with smooth yellow shells,
            Astride of dolphins, leaping up to kiss
            Fair mother-faces. From the vast abyss
          How joyously their thought-free laughter wells!
          Some slumber in grim caverns unafraid,
            Lulled by the overwhelming water's sound,
          And some make mouths at dragons, undismayed.
            Oh dauntless innocence! The gulfs profound
          Re-echo strangely with their ringing glee,
          And with wise mermaids' plaintive melody.

          III.

          What do the sea-nymphs in that coral cave?
            With wondering eyes their supple forms they bend
            O'er something rarely beautiful. They lend
          Their lithe white arms, and through the golden wave
          They lift it tenderly. Oh blinding sight!
            A naked, radiant goddess, tranced in sleep,
            Full-limbed, voluptuous, 'neath the mantling sweep
          Of auburn locks that kiss her ankles white!
          Upward they bear her, chanting low and sweet:
            The clinging waters part before their way,
          Jewels of flame are dancing 'neath their feet.
            Up in the sunshine, on soft foam, they lay
          Their precious burden, and return forlorn.
          Oh bliss! oh anguish! Mortals, Love is born!

          IV.

          Hark! from unfathomable deeps a dirge
            Swells sobbing through the melancholy air:
            Where Love has entered, Death is also there.
          The wail outrings the chafed, tumultuous surge:
          Ocean and earth, the illimitable skies,
            Prolong one note, a mourning for the dead,
            The cry of souls not to be comforted.
          What piercing music! Funeral visions rise,
          And send the hot tears raining down our cheek.
            We see the silent grave upon the hill
              With its lone lilac-bush. O heart, be still!
            She will not rise, she will not stir nor speak.
          Surely, the unreturning dead are blest.
          Ring on, sweet dirge, and knell us to our rest!

          V.

            Upon the silver beach the undines dance
              With interlinking arms and flying hair;
              Like polished marble gleam their limbs left bare;
            Upon their virgin rites pale moonbeams glance.
            Softer the music! for their foam-bright feet
              Print not the moist floor where they trip their round:
              Affrighted they will scatter at a sound,
            Leap in their cool sea-chambers, nimbly fleet,
            And we shall doubt that we have ever seen,
              While our sane eyes behold stray wreaths of mist,
              Shot with faint colors by the moon-rays kissed,
            Floating snow-soft, snow-white, where these had been.
          Already, look! the wave-washed sands are bare,
          And mocking laughter ripples through the air.

          VI.

            Divided 'twixt the dream-world and the real,
              We heard the waxing passion of the song
              Soar as to scale the heavens on pinions strong.
            Amidst the long-reverberant thunder-peal,
            Against the rain-blurred square of light, the head
              Of the pale poet at the lyric keys
              Stood boldly cut, absorbed in reveries,
            While over it keen-bladed lightnings played.
            "Rage on, wild storm!" the music seemed to sing:
              "Not all the thunders of thy wrath can move
            The soul that's dedicate to worshipping
              Eternal Beauty, everlasting Love."
            No more! the song was ended, and behold,
            A rainbow trembling on a sky of gold!

          EPILOGUE.

            Forth in the sunlit, rain-bathed air we stepped,
              Sweet with the dripping grass and flowering vine,
              And saw through irised clouds the pale sun shine.
            Back o'er the hills the rain-mist slowly crept
            Like a transparent curtain's silvery sheen;
              And fronting us the painted bow was arched,
              Whereunder the majestic cloud-shapes marched:
            In the wet, yellow light the dazzling green
            Of lawn and bush and tree seemed stained with blue.
              Our hearts o'erflowed with peace. With smiles we spake
            Of partings in the past, of courage new,
              Of high achievement, of the dreams that make
            A wonder and a glory of our days,
            And all life's music but a hymn of praise.

                                                  EMMA LAZARUS.

UNWRITTEN LITERATURE OF THE CAUCASIAN MOUNTAINEERS.

CONCLUDING PAPER.

All or nearly all of the unwritten literature of the Caucasian mountaineers may be referred
to one or the other of three great classes. First. Literature which is intended simply to amuse
or entertain, including popular tales, beast-fables, anecdotes, riddles and burlesques. Second.
Literature which grows out of, and afterward reacts upon, the popular love of glory, of war,
of adventure and of heroism, including historical ballads, death-songs and the fiery orations
of the mullahs. And third. Literature which serves merely as an outlet for the emotions. A
fourth class might perhaps be made of the prayers, exhortations, pious traditions and edifying
anecdotes of the theological schools and the mosques, but such productions are more or less
alike among all Mohammedan peoples, and those current in the Caucasus are interesting only
as illustrations of a peculiar phase of Oriental mysticism--viz. the philosophy of the Murids.

Of these three classes, that which includes anecdotes, beast-fables and popular tales is, although
not the most original, by far the most varied and extensive, comprising as it does full four-fifths
of the entire body of Caucasian traditionary lore. The popular tales already collected by the
officers of the Caucasian mountain administration at Tiflis would make a volume of four or
five hundred pages, and as yet the collectors have hardly gone outside the limits of the single
province of Daghestan. For the most part, however, these stories are only variants of well-known
Aryan and Turanian originals, and are valuable chiefly for their local coloring and for the
light which they throw upon the tastes, the habits and the mental processes of a peculiar and
long-isolated people. Yet the fact that they are among the oldest heirlooms of the human race
does not detract in the least from their value as indices to character. On the contrary, it
adds to it by linking them with the folk-lore of the world, and enabling the student to compare
them with their original types and understand and estimate aright the significance of the variations.
Every one knows how a story is unconsciously varied, colored and adapted in the course of repeated
narration to accord with the views, knowledge and tastes of its successive narrators, and how
differently the same intellectual framework of fact or fancy will be filled up by the imaginations
of different races. This working-over process, which has been going on in the Caucasus without
interference and without literary restraint for hundreds--perhaps thousands--of years, has
given to Caucasian stories a peculiar psychological interest which in their original forms
they never could have had. The themes upon which they were originally founded are most of them
perfectly familiar to every student of comparative folk-lore, but the modifications which they
have undergone, the changed forms in which they reappear, are all new, and every such change
or modification points to some peculiarity in the character of the people who originated it.
The variations of a story, therefore, are so many "Fraunhofer's lines" which reveal to us the
nature of the intellectual medium through which it has passed. For these reasons the stories,
fables and songs which are herewith presented must not be judged by their intrinsic value as
literature alone, but by the light which they throw upon the life, tastes, temperament and
artistic methods of a semi-barbarous but naturally gifted people.

The space to which I am limited will enable me to give only one or two specimens from each
of the three classes into which I have for convenience' sake divided Caucasian literature.
I will begin with one of the shortest of its popular tales, a humorous narrative entitled "The
Hero Naznai." This story, in one form or another, is common to all branches of the Aryan family,
but the mountaineers have so modified and improved it as to make it almost their own. It recites
the adventures and achievements of a certain worthless coward who is made by the force of circumstances
to appear a hero.

The Hero Naznai.--Listen! listen! There was and there was not. The fox lived with the hare
in the fields, the bear lived with the wild-boar in the forest, and in the land of Daghestan
there lived a hero, a scurvy fellow without brains or bravery. When he should have been in
front he was behind; when he should have been behind he was in front; and if his wife only
lifted the poker he hid himself behind the door. Oh, he was very brave! He was called "the
hero Naznai." One night he went out of doors to get a drink: it was bright moonlight. Beside
him, with a pitcher in her hand, stood his wife. Without his wife he never went out at night:
he said, because he didn't like to leave her alone; she said, because he was afraid to go out
of doors without her. "What a beautiful night!" exclaimed Naznai--"the very night for a raid."--"Look
out!" cried his wife suddenly: "there's a wolf." Naznai, trembling with fear, ran and climbed
up into a cart, almost breaking his neck in his haste. His wife led him into the house and
said, "I am disgusted with your cowardice, and I am disgusted with you: leave my house this
instant (the house belonged to her), or you shall never see another peaceful day: every God-given
day, morning and evening, I will pound you with the poker." Naznai begged her to let him stay
until daybreak. She consented. In the morning he slung his miserable old sabre over his shoulder
and started. Walking and strolling along, he came to a place where some one had been eating
fruit, and where there had gathered a great swarm of flies. Picking up a big flat stone, he
clapped it down on the very spot, lifted it up, looked, and there lay exactly five hundred
dead flies. Then he went on until he reached a certain town, where he inquired for a blacksmith.
Having found one, he ordered him to cut on the blade of his sabre this inscription: "The hero
Naznai, killer of five hundred at a blow."

Then he went on, on--travelled little, travelled much, travelled as far as a frog can jump--until
he came at last to a country where he had never before been, and where he was himself unknown,
and entered the capital city of a great king. It was already growing dark, and Naznai was beginning
to wonder where he should spend the night, when he heard not far away the sound of fifes, drums
and singing. "That's the place for me," he said to himself: "there's nothing worse than a dry
throat and an empty stomach." So he went in the direction of the music. When he came to the
place he looked, and there stood a great building surrounded by a spacious courtyard, all full
of men and women who were eating, drinking and singing. "Will you receive a guest?" inquired
Naznai, entering the courtyard. The servants rushed up to him, took his sabre, led him into
the house, gave him the seat of honor, and made him eat and drink until he was full up to the
very nostrils. The house was the palace of the king's vizier, and they were celebrating that
night the wedding of his son. When Naznai had eaten and drunk all he could--enough to last
him for a month, the clever rascal!--the vizier asked him, "Where do you come from, guest?
Where is your city? Of what country are you? Are you buying or selling?"--"Why should I talk
about myself?" replied Naznai. "Look at my sabre: that will tell you who I am." The vizier
unsheathed the sabre, looked at it, stared first at Naznai and then at the weapon, and finally
rushed, sabre in hand, straight to the king. The king was even more astonished than the vizier.
He sent for all the eloquent fools in the city, called together all the wise men who hadn't
any judgment, and held a great council. They all said to the king, "You must take the hero
Naznai from the land of Daghestan into your service, no matter at what cost, no matter how
much you may have to reward him: so long as he lives you will be as safe as if you were behind
an iron wall." Then the king sent for Naznai, and the vizier brought him in. "Hero Naznai from
the land of Daghestan," said the king--"first I, then you, I the father, you the son--take
my only daughter: live with me and defend my kingdom."--"Hard as it is for me," replied Naznai,
twisting his moustache, "I will do as you desire." That very night he married the king's daughter,
and went to sleep in her arms on a bed from which if one should fall out not even so much as
one's bones could ever be gathered together again.[3]

In the course of a week Naznai was summoned to the king, and found him sitting on his throne
surrounded by a great multitude of people. "My dear son, Hero Naznai," said the king, "I gave
you my daughter and made you my son with the hope that when a black day should come upon me
you would give me your help. The black day has come: a great dragon gives no peace to my flocks
and my herds. Twice every year, at certain known times, he makes his appearance: to-morrow
is the day of his coming. You must go out to meet him: who should go if not you, the killer
of five hundred men at a blow?" No sooner did Naznai catch the word "dragon" than his heart
sank within him, and hardly had the king finished speaking when he ran furiously out of doors.
Some said that he had turned coward: others said, "No: he ran out filled with rage against
the dragon." In the mean time Naznai had gone home; and that night, as soon as his wife fell
asleep, he took to his heels to save his head. He ran and ran and ran until he was so tired
that he could run no farther, and at last came to a great forest. Fearing to sleep on the ground,
he climbed up into a tree, and, holding fast to a limb with each hand, he fell asleep. When
he awoke he looked down, and there, coiled around the trunk of the tree and fast asleep, lay
the dragon. Overcome with terror, Naznai lost his hold, fell from the tree and came down plump
on the dragon's back. The dragon thought that God in His wrath had struck him with lightning:
his heart burst and he gave up the ghost. Naznai started to run, but, looking over his shoulder,
he saw that the dragon did not move. Then he knew that it was dead, and going back he cut off
its head and went with it to the king. "Then that is what you call a dragon, is it?" he demanded:
"in our Daghestan we have cats like that. Why didn't you send some of your children after him,
and not give me so much trouble?" The king could think of nothing to say, and so was left with
his mouth open.

After a little time the king sent for Naznai again, and said to him, "My dear son-in-law, Hero
Naznai, three narts [giants] have invaded my kingdom and are harassing my people with their
raids: to-morrow you must go out against them." Again Naznai's heart sank within him, and he
ran home. At midnight he fled a second time from the city, took refuge in the same forest as
before, and, climbing up the very same tree, went to sleep. When it began to grow light he
looked down, and there were the three narts, who, having hoppled their horses and turned them
out to graze, were themselves resting under the tree. Naznai's soul went down into his very
toes: he almost fell from the tree in a swoon. Suddenly one of the narts said to another, "Now
that the king has in his service the hero Naznai, who kills five hundred at a blow, we must
be more careful than we have been, and not turn our horses out in this way to graze."--"We
have never been afraid of any living thing yet," rejoined the other: "are we going to let him
scare us?" This led to a dispute which ended in a quarrel, and the three narts all killed one
another. Then Naznai climbed down out of the tree, cut off their heads, stripped them of their
clothes and weapons, which he loaded upon two of their horses, and, mounting the third, rode
back to the city. Throwing down the heads before the king, he said, "Then those are your narts?
We should have called them orphan children in our Daghestan. What was the use of sending a
man after them? Women would have done as well." The king was surprised, so were all the people.

A little while afterward the king summoned Naznai for the third time. "My dear son-in-law,"
he said, "an infidel king has declared war against me. Tomorrow at the head of my army you
must invade his dominions: otherwise the infidel hordes will come down like grass of the earth
and like the stars of heaven, and surround our capital." Again Naznai ran home with a quaking
heart. That night the king stationed a hundred sentinels around the hero's house to restrain
him, lest his rash bravery should impel him to go off alone in search of the infidel horde.
In vain he tried again and again to escape from the house: the sentinels always stopped him,
and his wife worried over him as if she were afraid that he would be carried away by some passing
crow. In the morning the king assembled all his forces, put Naznai in the midst of them, and
said, "March now, and God go with you! Whoever does not obey my son-in-law's orders, whoever
does not do exactly as he sees him do, is a traitor." The army marched away, taking one step
forward to two or three steps backward, until they came in sight of the infidel forces. Then
Naznai's heart failed him: he grew hot under his clothes. He took off his shoes, so as to be
able to run away faster, then his coat, and finally stripped himself as bare as a cake of ice.
The soldiers all followed his example, as the king had ordered. Just at that moment a hungry
wandering dog ran past, and seizing one of Naznai's shoes (they were greased with mutton tallow:
may their owner die!) set off with it in the direction of the infidel army. "Hm!" exclaimed
Naznai: "so you'll make me a laughing-stock too, will you?" and, naked as he was, he started
in pursuit. After him rushed the whole naked army. "Those are not men: they are devils," thought
the infidels; and, filled with terror, they scattered in all directions, throwing away their
weapons and abandoning their treasure. Naznai gathered up all the booty, and returned at the
head of the army to the kingdom of his father-in-law. Upon their arrival they found that the
king was dead, and the army with one voice chose Naznai as his successor. Ever afterward, when
the conversation turned upon heroism and notable exploits, Naznai used to say, "They who will
may boast of courage: I would rather have good luck."

If the reader will take the trouble to compare the above rendering of this story with the Hindoo
variant entitled "The Valiant Chattee-Maker,"[4] and the closely-related German version called
by Grimm "The Valiant Little Tailor,"[5] he will see how far it surpasses them both in unity
of conception, in coherence of detail, in keen appreciation of humor and in skill of literary
treatment. The grotesque statement of impossibilities with which it begins is the Caucasian
story-teller's conventional method of forewarning his hearers that they are about to listen
to a burlesque, a pure extravaganza, lying entirely outside the domain of fact and reality.
There is no attempt made to give it the air of truth: on the contrary, the narrator takes especial
pains to demolish what little intrinsic probability the story has by introducing the conventional
formula, "Travelled little, travelled much, travelled as far as a frog can jump," etc. This,
like the jingle of a court-jester's bells, is intended to remind the hearer that nothing is
to be taken seriously.

It is remarkable that men living in such wild, gloomy fastnesses as the tremendous ravines
of the Eastern Caucasus--men whose characters have been hardened and tempered in the hot fires
of war and the vendetta--men who have the pride and fortitude of American Indians with the
sternness and ferocity of Scandinavian Berserkers--should still be capable of appreciating
and enjoying such anecdotes as "The Kettle that Died" and "The Big Turnip," and such popular
tales as "The Hero Naznai." The fierce lust of war, which is perhaps the most salient feature
of the mountaineer's character, and the sternness and hardness of mental and moral fibre which
it tends to produce, are generally supposed to be incompatible not only with the delicacy of
perception upon which humor largely depends, but with the very taste for humor itself; and
yet in the Caucasian mountaineer they are coexistent. How versatile the Caucasian character
is, and how wide is the range of its tastes and sympathies, I shall show more fully hereafter.

The characters which figure in Caucasian popular tales are very numerous, and are taken, as
might be expected, from a great variety of sources. There are the stereotyped three brothers
of German and Russian stories; the dragons, giants, were-wolves, wicked magicians, and beautiful
girls married to bears, of all Aryan folk-lore; and sundry nondescript personages with superhuman
powers which have no exact analogues among the other Aryan races, and seem to be original products
of Caucasian fancy. Among the latter are karts, female ogres with cannibalistic tastes; narts,
or giants of protean shapes and variable dispositions; and certain mysterious equestrians who
are always described as "hare-riders." These three classes of supernatural beings, karts, narts
and hare-riders, are known to the whole body of the Caucasian mountaineers without distinction
of tribe or race; and it is a significant fact that the two first mentioned have everywhere
and in all Caucasian languages the same names. By whom they were originally invented, and from
what tongue their appellations were derived, philologists can as yet only conjecture. Among
the Ossetes, who are unquestionably an Aryan race, narts have a quasi-historical existence
like the Knights of the Round Table, and their lives and adventures have been woven by popular
tradition into a sort of mediæval epic resembling the Nibelungen Lied of Germany. Elsewhere,
among the Chechenses, the Avars and the Circassians, narts are simply giants of the orthodox
nursery type.

It is remarkable that we should also find among the dramatis personæ of Caucasian popular tales
such Old-Testament heroes as Jonah and Solomon, and such historical characters as the Roman
Cæsars. The former were very likely introduced by the Jews and Arabs, whose descendants form
no inconsiderable part of the present population, but the Roman emperors must have gained a
foothold in Caucasian traditional lore before the downfall of the Byzantine Empire, and may
have done so as long ago as the reign of Augustus, when the lowlands of the Caucasus were under
Roman rule.

Next to anecdotes and stories in importance and popularity come beast-fables, of which the
mountaineers have an almost endless number and variety. Animals, especially birds and foxes,
figure more or less extensively throughout Caucasian literature, but in the beast-fables, properly
so called, they have the whole stage to themselves, and think, act and talk in perfect independence
of natural laws and limitations. The view taken by the mountaineers of the animal world seems
to be the view of the Aryan races generally. With them, as with us, the fox is the embodiment
of cunning, the ass of stupidity, and the bear of clumsy strength and good-humored simplicity.
If they can be said to have a favorite animal, it is the wolf, whose predatory life, ferocity
when at bay and ability to die fighting and in silence comprise all that in a mountaineer's
eyes is most worthy of admiration. "Short-eared wolf" is a Caucasian girl's pet name for her
lover, and "wolf of the North" was the most complimentary title which the Chechenses could
think of to head an address to a distinguished Russian general whose gallantry in battle had
won their respect. The serpent, in the Caucasus, is the Cardinal Mezzofanti of the brute world.
To know as many languages as a serpent is the ne plus ultra of polyglot erudition. A swaggering
coward is compared to a drunken mouse; and many a boaster on the porch of the Caucasian village
mosque has been silenced by some sceptical bystander with the well-known quotation from a popular
beast-fable: "'What has become of all the cats?' inquired the drunken mouse." Of the Caucasian
beast-fables the following is a characteristic specimen:

The Jackal and the Fox.--Once upon a time a hunter set a trap and baited it with a piece of
fat mutton. Along came a hungry fox and discovered it, but, not daring to approach it, she
proceeded to walk round and round it at a distance. In the mean time she was joined by a jackal.
The fox asked the jackal where he was going. "Oh, I am almost dead with hunger," replied the
jackal. "I started to go to the village in search of something to eat, but I am afraid of the
dogs."--"Well, Brother Jackal," said the fox, "I know a place not far from here where there
lies a big piece of fat mutton: how would you like that?"--"Why don't you eat it yourself?"
inquired the jackal.--"I'm now keeping oroozh" [a Mohammedan fast], said the fox, "but I'll
show it to you." Whereupon she led the jackal to the trap. Hardly had the jackal seized the
mutton when the trap sprung and caught him by the neck. In trying to free himself by shaking
his head he dislodged the bait, which rolled away to one side. This was all that the fox had
waited for: she quickly seized the mutton, and sat down composedly to eat it. "Here!" exclaimed
the jackal: "I thought you said you were keeping a fast, and now you are eating."--"I was,"
replied the fox, "but I have seen the moon,[6] and now I am having a holiday."--"But when am
I going to have my holiday?" asked the jackal.--"When the owner of the trap comes," answered
the fox, and so saying walked away.

Most of the Caucasian literature to which I have hitherto had occasion to refer is the reflection
of the lighter, more genial side of the mountaineer's character, and taken alone would give
the impression that he is an amiable, jovial, good-humored fellow with a keen sense of the
ludicrous and little knowledge of, or feeling for, the sorrows, the sufferings and the tragedies
of life. Such an impression, however, would be a wholly mistaken one; and in order that the
reader may see how full of sorrow and suffering and tragedy his life really is, I will, before
taking up Caucasian poetry, give some extracts from a code of Caucasian criminal law. I do
this partly because the code itself is a legal and literary curiosity, and partly because it
shows better than any description could do the state of society in which a Caucasian mountaineer
lives:

Laws of Ootsmee Rustem, Khan of Kaitaga.--1. To the reader of these ordinances a piece of silk
from him in whose favor the case shall be decided.

2. He shall not read these laws for any one who has not a paper from the bek, with the impression
of the bek's seal.

He who holds his tongue will save his head.

1. He who kills a robber in his sheepfold or his house shall not be punished.

2. He who kills the killer of a robber shall pay two fines and have two blood-enemies.

3. One suspected of robbery shall clear himself by taking the oath of purgation, with seven
compurgators.

4. For robbery with murder, a sevenfold fine and seven blood-avengers.

5. For robbery and murder of a woman, a fourteen-fold fine and fourteen blood-avengers.

He who holds his tongue will save his head.

1. He who assaults a woman with intent to commit outrage shall forfeit a thousand yards of
linen to the community.

2. The life-blood of him who carries off a woman and keeps her by force shall count for nothing.

3. If a slave touch a free woman, kill him.

4. He who murders a Jew shall fill a part of his skin with silver and give it to the bek.

He who holds his tongue will save his head.

1. If one be killed in a fight between a number of persons, and the killer be unknown, the
relatives of the killed may count as blood-enemy any one whom they choose of those engaged
in the fight.

2. If in a general fight several persons are killed, the relatives of those who die first shall
be the blood-seekers of the relatives of those who die last.

3. If one die from wounds inflicted by several persons, count two of them blood-enemies, and
after the killing of one take a fine from the other.

4. He who kills another and hides the body shall pay a sevenfold fine and have seven blood-avengers.

He who holds his tongue will save his head.

1. He who does not at once leave the village where his blood-seekers live shall forfeit one
hundred yards of linen for the benefit of the community.

2. If a blood-enemy claim refuge, do not send him away: receive him.

3. If he wishes to go away, let no one travel with him.

4. If one be killed while travelling with a blood-enemy, his blood shall count for nothing.

5. Him through whose betrayal a blood-enemy is killed, count as himself a blood-enemy, with
all his family.

He who holds his tongue will save his head.

1. The bek shall summon the general assembly every year: if he does not, remove him.

2. From him who does not come at the bek's call take a hundred yards of linen.

3. From a country without a ruler, from a community without a general assembly, from a flock
without a shepherd, from an army without a leader and from a village without aldermen, no good
will come. Let him who has sense think of this.

4. Have a care, bek! Speak the truth. Truth exalts a man and makes his power endure for ever.
The earth does not consume, but glorifies, the body of him whom God has blessed.

5. Have a care, people of Kaitaga! Receive the truth. It is by justice and truth that a community
becomes great.

The above are only a few extracts from a long and detailed code of criminal law written in
Arabic and preserved in the mosque of an East Caucasian village. The separate rules are known
as adats, or precedents, and the system of jurisprudence founded upon them is called "trial
by adat," to distinguish it from the course of procedure laid down in the Koran and known as
"trial by shariat." It is hardly necessary to say that in such a state of society as that reflected
in this barbarous and archaic code of laws there must exist the elements of the profoundest
tragedy and almost infinite possibilities of suffering. Out of grief, tragedy and suffering
grows the literature of heroism, bearing fruit in such fierce triumphant songs as the one which
follows. It is supposed to be sung by the spirit of a mountaineer who has been killed in battle:

          THE DEATH-SONG OF THE CHECHENSE.

          The earth is drying on my grave, and thou art forgetting me,
            O my own mother!
          The weeds are overgrowing my burial-place, and they deaden even
            thy sorrow, O my aged father!
          The tears fall no more from the eyes of my sister, and from her
            heart the misery is passing away;
          But do not thou forget me, O my elder brother! until thou shalt
            have avenged my death;
          And do not thou forget me, O my younger brother! until thou
            shalt lie beside me.
          Thou art hot, O bullet! and thou bringest death, but hast thou
            not been my true slave?
          Thou art black, O earth! and thou coverest me, but have I not
            spurned thee under my very horses' feet?
          Thou art cold, O death! but I have been thy master.
          My body is the inheritance of earth, but my soul rises in
            triumph to heaven.

It would be hard to find in any literature a song which breathes a fiercer, more indomitable,
spirit of heroism than this. The mountaineer is dead; he can fight no more; his body lies in
the black earth; but his freed soul is as proud, defiant and unconquerable as ever. He takes
a fierce delight even beyond the grave in taunting the bullet which has killed him with having
once been his slave; in reminding the earth which covers him that he has spurned it under his
horses' hoofs; and in mocking and defying even death itself. They have destroyed his body,
but nothing has subdued, or ever can subdue, the brave, proud spirit which tenanted it. That,
and not the body, was the man's true self, and that still lives to exult over bullet, grave
and death.

So far is the true mountaineer from being afraid of death, that he seems to take a savage pleasure
in imagining it in its most horrible forms and dwelling upon its most repulsive and terrifying
features, merely to have the satisfaction of triumphing over it in fancy. As an illustration
of this I give below a part of another Chechense song called "The Song of Khamzat." Khamzat
was a celebrated abrek, or Caucasian Berserker, who harried the Russian armed line of the Terek
with bloody and destructive raids before and during the reign of the great Caucasian hero Shamyl.
He was finally overtaken and surrounded by a large Russian force on the summit of a high hill
near the river Terek, called the Circassian Gora. Finding it impossible to escape, he and his
men slaughtered their horses, built a breastwork of their bodies, and behind this bloody half-living
wall fought until they were literally annihilated. The song of which the following are the
closing lines was composed in commemoration of Khamzat's heroic defence and death. Just before
the final Russian onset he is supposed to see a bird flying over the field of battle in the
direction of his native village, and he addresses it as follows:

          O aërial bird! carry to Akh Verdi Mohammed, the ruler of Hikka,
            our last farewell:
          Bid good-bye to our sweethearts, the fair girls of Hikka,
          And tell them that our breasts are a wall which will stop the
            Russian bullets:
          Tell them that we had hoped to lie in the graveyard of our
            native village,
          Where our sisters would have come to weep over our graves,
          Where sorrowful relatives would have gathered to mourn our
            death.
          But God has not granted us this last favor: instead of the
            weeping of sisters,
          Over us will be heard the growls of fighting wolves;
          Instead of sorrowing relatives, here will assemble clouds of
            croaking ravens:
          The ravens will drink up our eyes and the bloodthirsty wolves
            will devour our bodies.
          Tell them all, O bird! that on the Circassian mountain, in the
            land of the infidel,
          With naked sabres in our hands, we all lie dead.

The reader who merely sees this song on a printed page in an imperfect prose translation can
form little conception of the thrilling effect which it produces when sung by an excited woman
to the fierce wild music of the Caucasian highlanders amid a group of Khamzat's fiery and sensitive
countrymen. Their faces flush with strong emotion, their hands close with nervous grip upon
the hilts of their long kinjals, and their bright eyes slowly fill with tears of mingled grief,
rage and pity as the excited singer wails out the dying words of their lost leader.

The heroic poetry of the Caucasian mountaineers is largely taken up with recitals of their
freebooting exploits and achievements in the valley of Georgia, usually in the form of songs
or ballads, which all breathe the same fierce, proud, cruel spirit. In the diction there is
very little art. Rhyme, although it is known to the mountaineers, is seldom used, and their
poetry is, as a rule, nothing more than rhythmical or blank verse broken into irregular stanzas
of from seven to eleven metrical feet. This kind of verse they improvise with great readiness
and facility. It seems to be the form of expression which their stronger feelings naturally
take. I have heard an Avarian mother chant amid her sobs an improvised but rhythmical lament
over the body of her dead child. Rude as Caucasian poetry is, however, in construction, fierce
and warlike as it generally is in spirit, one meets occasionally in Caucasian songs with the
most delicate and graceful conceptions. Contrast, for example, "The Song of Khamzat" or "The
Death-Song of the Chechense" with the following bit of Avarian poetry, which I have taken the
liberty of calling:

          GLAMOUR.

          Come out of doors, O mother! and see what a wonder is here:
          Up through the snows of the mountain the flowers of spring
            appear.
          Come out on the roof, O mother! and see how along the ravine
          The glacier-ice is covered with the springtime's leafy green!

          There are no flowers, my daughter: 'tis only because thou art
            young
          That blossoms from under the mountain-snows appear to thee to
            have sprung.
          There is no grass on the glacier: the blades do not even start;
          But thou art in love, and the grass and flowers are springing
            in thy heart.

I have space for only one more specimen of Caucasian heroic literature, a brief oration of
Kazi Mullah, the friend and teacher of Shamyl and the founder of Caucasian Muridism. An imperfect
translation of this speech will be found in Latham's Races of the Russian Empire. Copies of
it in Arabic were widely circulated throughout Daghestan immediately after its delivery, and
it probably contributed more than any other single thing to bring on the general insurrection
of the East Caucasian mountaineers in 1832. In the spring of that year the inhabitants of a
small aoul or mountain-village in Central Daghestan--I think Khunzakh--were assembled one evening
in the walled courtyard of one of its houses under the minaret of the village mosque for the
purpose of social enjoyment. Tradition relates that they were celebrating a wedding. A fire
had been built in the middle of the courtyard, and around it picturesquely-dressed men and
women were singing and dancing to the accompaniment of fifes, kettledrums and tambourines.
Suddenly there appeared in the circular gallery of the minaret which overlooked the courtyard
the figure of a tall, gray-bearded stranger, a mullah, whose green turban marked his lineal
descent from the family of the Prophet. He looked down for a moment with stern displeasure
into the fire-lighted courtyard, and then putting his hands to his lips chanted the Mohammedan
call to prayers. The music and merrymaking instantly ceased, and the sweet weird chant rang
out far and wide through the still evening air over the silent village, dying away at last
in a long musical cry of La illaha il Allah! ("There is no God but God"). Amid profound silence
Kazi Mullah--for the gray-bearded stranger was that renowned priest--stretched out his hand
over the crowded courtyard and with slow stern gravity said:

"Upon all your merrymakings and feasts, upon all your marriages and rejoicings, upon yourselves,
your children and your households, upon everything that you do, have and are, rests the awful
curse of God! Heaven has marked you with the black seal of eternal damnation because you still
grovel in sin and refuse to obey the voice and teachings of our holy Prophet. Your duty is
to spread with the sword the light of our holy faith throughout the world; but what have you
done? what are you doing? Miserable cowards! without faith and without religion! you pursue
eagerly the pleasures of this life, but you despise the law of God and of his holy Prophet.
Vain are your selfish prayers--vain is your daily attendance at the mosque. Heaven rejects
your heartless sacrifices. The presence of the Russian infidel blocks up the way to the throne
of God! Repent, pray, and arm yourselves for the war of the Most High. The hour draws near
when I shall call you forth and consecrate you for the holy sacrifice of battle."

This impassioned speech fell like a lighted torch into a perfect powder-magazine of religious
enthusiasm. Copies of it in Arabic were borne from village to village by mounted Murids; other
mullahs took up Kazi's cry of gazavat (war for the faith), using his speech as a text for their
excited harangues; and in less than a month the whole district was in a blaze of insurrection.
Kazi Mullah himself was the first victim of the fire of war which his eloquence had kindled.
He was killed while fighting desperately at the storming of the aoul of Ghimry by a column
of Russian infantry under Baron Rosen, on October 17, 1832.

I have endeavored to give in the preceding songs and in the speech of Kazi Mullah an idea of
the nature and the spirit of Caucasian heroic literature. I will turn now in closing to the
literature of sorrow and suffering, which is the black shadow cast by heroism across the threshold
of domestic life. Heroic literature is the voice of Caucasian manhood: the literature of suffering
is the cry of bereaved women.

The following lines are the lament of an Avarian girl whose lover has been killed while making
a raid with a troop of Lesghian horsemen through the valley of Georgia:

          My beloved went away into the valley of the Alazan,
                     and as he left me he looked over his shoulder
                     at every step.
          My clear-eyed one rode down into the lowlands of
              Georgia, and his horse was fleet and fearless
              as a mountain-wolf.
          But from the depths of the lowlands has come the
              bitter news that our mountain-hawks will never
              more return:
          From the far-away valley of Georgia have come the
              scorching tidings that our lions lie dead in the
              pass with broken talons.
          O merciful God! if I were only an eagle, that I might
              touch once more those cold dead hands!
          O almighty One! if I were only a wild dove of the
              cliffs, that I might look once more into that
              pale dead face!
          I envy thee, I envy thee, O jackal of Georgia! thou
              feedest upon the bodies of those who wore
              weapons of steel!
          I envy thee, I envy thee, O raven of the river! thou
              drinkest the eyes of those who rode to battle on
              swift horses.
          The jackal devours the bodies of the warriors who
              bore weapons of steel, and skulks away into
              the depths of the forest:
          The raven drinks up the eyes of those who rode to
              battle on swift horses, and with hoarse croaks
              vanishes in the blue sky.

There is no attempt in this wild lament to soften or mitigate the horrors of a violent death
by throwing around it a halo of heroism and glory. The woman cares not what prodigies of valor
her lover performed, but she dwells with self-torturing vividness of imagination upon the helpless
and abandoned body which she can never again see or touch, but which the ravens and jackals
can tear and mutilate at will.

Compare with this the following lament of a Lesghian woman over the body of her dead husband:

          I would stand on the shore of the green ocean if I only knew
          That I should see the diamond which has fallen into its surges:
          I would climb to the lonely summit of the highest mountain if I
            only knew
          That I should find a spring flower blossoming in the blue ice.
          If one look carefully one may see the diamond which has fallen
            into the ocean,
          But never again shall I see the life which has gone:
          If one search patiently one may find a spring flower rooted in
            the blue ice,
          But never again shall I find the swift falcon which has flown
            away.
          Henceforth I live upon an earth which is no longer a world,
          And in a world which has no longer a heaven.

There is a certain rude art in the way in which the asserted possibility of two evident impossibilities
is made to lead up to and heighten the utter hopelessness of the third. The diamond may be
recovered from the depths of the ocean; the flower which has withered and died may spring again
even from glacier-ice; but the soul once gone is gone for ever: the great disaster of death
is irretrievable even in imagination. There is no hint or suggestion here of any possible resurrection
of the body or of reunion beyond the grave: I cannot recall any Caucasian lament in which there
is. But whether the omission is due to the breaking down of faith under the strain of grief,
or whether it is conventionally improper in a lament to allude to anything which would lighten
the sense of bereavement, I do not know.

With these two characteristic illustrations of the form of expression which sorrow takes in
Caucasian life, I must close my brief and imperfect sketch of Caucasian literature. I hope
I have amply proved the assertions which I made in a previous paper with regard to the originality
and innate intellectual capacity of the Caucasian highlanders; but whether I have or not, the
reader must, I am sure, admit that the proverbs, songs and anecdotes above translated are at
least indications of great latent capability, of unusual versatility of talent, and of a wide
range of human feeling and sympathy. It is possible that I overestimate their value on account
of my inability to separate the impressions made upon me by the people themselves from those
made by their literature; but I am confident that the general outlines of the Caucasian character
as I have tried here to sketch them are accurate, and that the reader would fully appreciate
and admit the significance of the literature if he could make the personal acquaintance of
the people.

In conclusion, I cannot better express my own opinion of the Caucasian mountaineers than by
adopting the words of A. Viskovatof, one of the fairest and most discriminating of Russian
travellers: "Nature has not properly brought out the moral and intellectual capacity of the
Caucasian highlanders. Through the superficial crust of ignorance and wildness you may see
in every mountaineer a frank and acute intellect, and, brigand though he may be, he still shows
evidences of human feeling and of a soul. His brigandage, indeed, is only the external roughness
which results naturally from his education, his circumstances and his mode of life. Beneath
it there are intellect, feeling, manliness and strength of character. Under certain conditions
of course these very traits go to make up the daring, skilful mountain-brigand whom we know;
but separate him from his surroundings, educate him in the civilized world, and you have a
capable, energetic, intellectual and feeling man. Love of honor and love of fame are, generally
speaking, among the strongest actuating impulses of the mountaineer's character; and these
were the very impulses which kept him always hostile to the Russians, which impelled him constantly
to engage in partisan warfare, and which enabled him to resist so long and with such terrible
strength all Russia's efforts to subdue him. Was it merely for plunder that parties of mountaineers
used to assemble in front of our lines and throw themselves furiously upon our outposts? No:
the leaders of those parties reminded them in forcible and eloquent speeches of the deeds of
their heroic fathers and forefathers, of the glory to be won in battle with the giours, of
the exploits of their brothers and countrymen who had left their bodies on Russian soil; and
they fought for honor and fame. What made the Chechenses hold out so long and so desperately,
suffering hunger and peril and hardship, dying, and sending their children to die, in battle?
Was it a spirit of blind submission to Shamyl and their religious leaders, or an unreasoning
hatred of infidels, or a thirst for plunder and rapine? Not at all. It was the love of independence--the
natural devotion of brave men who were fighting for their country, their honor and their freedom."

  GEORGE KENNAN.

THE GIFT.

          You brought me a flower of spring
            When the winter airs were cold,
          And the birds began to sing,
            And the gloom turned swift to gold.

          The world looked chilly and dark,
            But you called a flash from the sky:
          Your clear eyes kindled a spark
            Of splendor that cannot die.

          O Love with the heart of Truth!
             What is it you lay at my feet?
          The bloom of your glorious youth,
             Its flower and radiance sweet?

          I lift to my lips the flower,
            For thanks seem worthless and weak,
          And I bless the beautiful hour,
            But I have no word to speak.

                     CELIA THAXTER.

THROUGH WINDING WAYS.

CHAPTER XIII.

I am not enough of a hero even in my own story to dwell upon the events of the two following
years. I graduated with honors, of which I was secretly and my mother and Mr. Floyd ostentatiously
proud. Then my guardian and I set out upon our travels. Travel was something different in those
times from what it is to-day, but Mr. Floyd had for years been familiar with the best of European
life, and this gave me opportunities such as few men of my age possessed. We spent our second
winter in the East: then returned to Florence, and were planning a few months more of adventure
when we received the news of Mr. Raymond's death. Mr. Floyd had but one thought after this,
which was that now at last his little girl was his own again.

He had had an accident in Damascus--a fall which in itself was not serious, causing mere contusion
and sprains, but it had resulted in a severe illness by the time we reached Alexandria. Harry
Dart had been with us in Egypt and Palestine, but was obliged to leave us, and for a month
or more I had nursed my guardian assiduously, with a fear lest this was to be the end of a
sacred and beloved existence. He too feared it, and between his intervals of pain would say,
"I want to see my little girl once more: I must see your mother. Oh, why do we separate ourselves
from those we love?" But he rallied, and finally regained his ordinary health, and before May
we were again in Florence in our old rooms and talking of joining Harry Dart at Venice, when
Helen's letter came.

Mr. Floyd sent for me at once when he had read the news. I found him lying on a sofa in his
great dingy parlor, with its heavily-moulded ceilings frescoed into dusky richness, its sides
hung with heavy crimson draperies and decaying canvases, out of whose once splendid pigments
color and meaning had faded long ago.

"Think of it, my boy," said he softly: "my father-in-law is dead. Mr. Raymond died the twenty-second
of April."

"Poor little Helen!" I exclaimed: "is she all alone?"

"I fancy your mother is with her," he returned, glancing back at the letter. "She says she
shall send for Mrs. Randolph. She and I are executors of the old man's will. I try to feel
solemn over the death," he went on gravely. "With all our belief in immortality, death is a
terrible thing to regard closely. But yet he was an old, old man: am I wrong that I cannot
mourn for him?"

We went about our preparations for return at once. Vanished were our plans for Venice and the
Alps. I had looked forward with pleasure to spending my summer with Dart. No man in the world
is so good a comrade as an enthusiastic painter, and Harry was keen of eye, with an exquisite
pleasure in form and color: nothing came amiss to him between earth and sky. It had been a
pleasant dream with us to go together about Venice, rowed by some sweet-voiced Luigi or Antonio
from one stretch of sea-kissed marble palace-steps to another--to spend our mornings in dim
basilicas, our afternoons away across the widening lagoons, and finish the day in the square
of San Marco listening to Bellini's and Verdi's airs. But now that this sweet idleness of Italy
must be put by, I was glad that we were to come back home again. I was a little surprised to
find myself almost as eager as Mr. Floyd in making preparations for return. In a week we were
on the ocean.

Mr. Floyd had seemed to enjoy our travels. He was always in good spirits, always a brilliant
and engaging talker, a pleased observer and clever analyst. Harry and I had made the usual
display of unlimited fastidiousness which youth delights in, but our elder had taken everything
more kindly. He could not fatigue himself, and rarely looked at more than two or three pictures
at a time.

"I used to feel," he would say, "if I went away from a gallery without a crick in my back and
a blinding headache that I had no realization of my æsthetic privileges. Now-a-days I am willing
to confess that I find too much of everything. Besides, all these pictures have been so overpraised!
Let us find some pleasure that is not in the guide-books."

This was his tone, and I discovered in it at times, despite all his cheerfulness, a strange
fatigue of spirit. But now that he was on his way home he had suddenly become exuberantly joyful.

"It is so delightful," he would remark to me, "to realize once more that the chief end of man
is not, after all, to have fluent meditations upon wrecks of lost empires--to discover beauty
in hideousness because somebody else pretends to do so--to mumble praises about frescoes which
are frightful to look at, and break your neck besides--to have profound emotions in Jerusalem
and experience awe before pyramids and sphinxes. This fictitious life we have been leading
is very elegant, no doubt, and gives one material for just criticisms, but, strictly between
us, I think it dreadfully tiresome. I shall never go into it again. I suppose my little girl
will want to go abroad now that she can do what she chooses, but I shall let you take care
of her, Floyd."

I laughed. "You will find Helen a magnificent young lady by this time," I returned. "She is
seventeen, is she not? A good many men will fight for the pleasure of showing her about, and
likely as not she will not look at me."

"She is as old as her mother was when I married her," said Mr. Floyd thoughtfully. "Can it
be that people will want to be marrying my little girl? I want her all to myself for a time.
Who knows how long? I have been a lonely man, and now I want close, intimate human companionship.
I am tired of doing, I am tired of thinking. I am out of politics: I am ready for enjoyment.
It seems to me I can be very happy with Helen and your mother close at hand. We shall not be
a dreary family. Your mother and I can sit together and talk: you and Helen can have your little
amusements. Now that she is to be quite unrestricted, I hope and expect a little nonsense from
her."

"But, sir--" I began hesitatingly.

"But what, pray?"

"You cannot believe that we are all to live together. It is time for me to make a beginning
in life, and my mother must be with me."

"You have made a very handsome beginning," returned Mr. Floyd dryly. "Once for all, Floyd,
I will have no nonsense of independence and pride from you. You are to me as my own son. I
may talk much of Helen, because our love for women is of the kind that gives us the impulse
to proclaim it, but she is scarcely more dear to me than you are. You are part of my life now:
don't fret me and make me miserable by deserting me. Be as free as air and follow out every
wish of your heart, yet, all the same, feel that your home is where my home is, your interests
where mine are."

As soon as we landed we had news of my mother having joined Helen at The Headlands shortly
after Mr. Raymond's death. Mr. Floyd wasted not an hour in New York, but went on to his daughter
at once. I lingered behind him, detained in part by some delays at the custom-house. I longed
to see my mother, but felt, though with but little of the old jealousy, that Mr. Floyd had
almost the best right to see her first, because, now-a-days, I was always looking the truth
square in the face, and realizing that it could not be long before cruel and irremediable loss
was to encompass us, and that the rest of our lives we should have not substance, but shadowy
memories only, in place of this dear friend of ours. So I let him speed on to The Headlands,
and dreamed of the love-flush on the cheeks of the two women who met him there.

I knew comparatively little of my old set of friends, and of late Jack Holt had almost slipped
out of my circle of correspondents. I was aware that his marriage had been delayed the previous
year and the time fixed for Christmas, but neither Harry nor I had been advised of it, and
my mother had only written that she heard there were fresh delays, and that the elder Holt
had involved his firm in difficulties. I determined, therefore, to stop at Belfield on my way
to The Headlands and see Jack and all the old friends I might still have remaining there. Of
late years my passing associations had become so diffused with their endless transitions that
every memory of my old home was becoming more and more fixed and permanent, the nucleus of
my recollection distinct and unchangeable.

I reached Belfield early one morning late in May. The season was perhaps a little late, for
the apple trees were still in bloom, and the village looked fair and virginal as a bride on
her wedding-day. I walked along the wide pleasant streets with a curious pain. The years that
lay between me and the last day I had paced these broad walks under the pale greenery of the
elms seemed legendary and dreamlike. There was the schoolhouse on the hill, and the well-worn
playground about it. Beyond lay the woods, half colored now with clear pellucid green, gleams
of silver and shades of scarlet here and there. My mind reverted with clearness to the little
nooks and dingles of the hills and meadows thereabouts: I remembered a woodland spring boiling
up in a hollow of the greenest grass I ever saw, and in the copse beside it grew the most beautiful
rose-tinted anemones. I could have gone to the foot of a great oak and found the root of white
violets which had been one of my earliest and dearest secrets; and I wondered--with a longing
inexpressibly strong to go and seek it--if there were still a nest in a little hollow I knew
of, where in my time I had watched scores of yellow-beaked nestlings.

I went past the house where my mother and I had lived so many years. It was so changed I should
not have recognized it, repainted and modernized with much show of glass and bow-windows. There
were few people to be seen along the white walks until I met the stream from the post-office.
Old men and boys, shy girls and children, came out with their letters and papers just as in
the old time. Some of the men, grown corpulent and gray, I recognized with the old feeling
of reverence and love, and stopped to speak with them. But Belfield life, slow and stagnant
though it was, was busy enough to have filled their minds with fresher memories, and I was
so nearly forgotten that there was small pleasure in reminding them of the lad who had grown
from babyhood into a tall stripling among them. My sentiment passed. I looked about more coldly
even at the street that led to the cottage where Georgy Lenox lived, and went on briskly to
the great stone house of the Holts. Georgy would be there of course: impossible that another
Easter could have passed without her being a bride. I wondered as I entered the open iron gate
what she would say to me.

The place had seemed splendid to me as a boy, and I well remembered how all the beautiful wonders
of the spring blossomed here as nowhere else. But now these grounds too seemed to have suffered
a change: there was an air of neglect about the unpruned hedges, with straggling blossoms running
riotously over fence and shrubbery; the beds of hyacinths and tulips were trampled, and as
I neared the house I saw that the blinds swung carelessly and the old look of thrift and prosperity
was quite absent. Still, I observed all this dreamily, wondering, as returned travellers are
apt to do, if the change were in the things themselves or in my own eyes.

"Perhaps," thought I, "Jack and his wife live in New York," when, suddenly answering my doubt,
Jack himself came down the avenue in his light wagon.

I stepped aside, standing still, and he regarded me at first absently, then with startled curiosity,
and sharply drew his skittish mare back on her haunches. "Good God, Floyd!" said he, "how glad
I am to see you!" We looked straight in each other's face for a time, and his features worked,
as he regarded me, with some emotion. "You were going to the house?" said he. "Nobody could
see you. I have been driving father to the factories to-day, and he is not so well after it,
and my mother is with him. I have to be back at twelve, so jump in and come out with me."

I obeyed him. It was but two years since we had parted, but he had aged and seemed quite different
from the Jack Holt of former times. He was roughly dressed, and, though scrupulously neat and
shaven, looked, I am sure, fifteen years my senior. He touched his whip, and the mare plunged
down the avenue at a pace too disconcerting to allow either of us to speak for a few moments,
and we were at least a mile away before her swinging canter subsided into a trot.

"What is her name?" I asked, laughing. "It ought to be Mary Magdalen, for she has seven devils
in her this morning."

"Don't you remember the Duchess?" he inquired with a flicker of something like a smile crossing
his heavy face. "You christened her yourself."

I remembered the Duchess. The yearling colt had been given to him on his sixteenth birthday.
He wanted to call her Georgy, but his mother forbade it: so we named her after that duchess
of Devonshire who had made the name famous.

"You'll find I have forgotten nothing," I replied, "but my thoughts are such a medley that
I can't settle them at once."

"When did you return?"

"Only four days ago: I have not seen my mother yet."

"And you have come to look me up? Floyd, that is kind."

Something in his cool, pleasant tones touched me powerfully. "I knew nothing about you," I
blurted out. "Why, Jack, at this minute I'm not sure if you are married or not."

"I am not married," he said softly. He was not used to reply so quickly, and I waited for him
to speak before I questioned him further. "I am well," he said presently, "and mother is in
her usual health. Have you heard about my father?"

"Nothing. Both Harry and I have famished for news of you."

I could see a little trouble in his face: he would have preferred that somebody else should
have broken his news to me. But he sighed, and went on without flinching. "My father had a
paralytic stroke in December," he explained in his deliberate, gentle voice. "When once our
eyes were opened we could easily comprehend that for months his mind had been failing. When
the bad news came the accumulation of trouble was too much for him. We thought at first nothing
could save him, but he rallied physically. His mind has quite gone, however," Jack added, his
voice trembling: "his brain has softened."

I stared at him speechlessly: I knew by instinct that I had not heard the worst.

"The moment I saw you," pursued Jack, "my first thought was, 'I hope he knows the whole story.'
You heard nothing of our failure?"

"Not a word."

"The firm of Holt & Strong suspended payment last December," said he with a deep flush rising
to his temples. "There were two companies, you know: I was only in Holt & Co. Strong was in
Europe. My poor father's weakness did not display itself openly, but took the form of mad secret
speculations. It is a long story, Floyd. There were no bounds to his schemes, in which he involved
not only himself, but others. He was president of the savings bank too, you may remember. The
troubles began with the failure of a house in New York to which we owed something. He was pressed:
there was a whisper of something wrong, and of course there came a run on the bank. I was not
here. My father sent for me: when I came I found a riotous mob outside the closed doors, and
he lay insensible in the bank parlor. He never recovered any real consciousness, and for weeks
we worked in the dark. There was much to bear. I could have endured every loss without a murmur,
had it not been for the cruelty of some of his smallest creditors."

He stopped for a few minutes, but when I would have spoken he motioned me to be silent, and
presently went on: "There are men to-day who pretend to believe that my father's mental state
is as perfect as ever--that he is merely shielding himself from punishment by shamming imbecility.
Ah, well! let me continue. Just at this juncture one of our buildings was destroyed by fire.
The insurance policy had lapsed, and he had failed to renew it. The factory was packed with
goods ready for shipment. The loss to Holt & Strong was a quarter of a million of dollars."
He stopped again, and I saw him moisten his dry lips. "The chief creditors," he resumed, "were
honorable men. By the first of March we had agreed upon terms of adjustment. My mother gave
up all she had. My sisters are angry with me that I allowed her to strip the house of everything
that had possessed a moneyed value, and think it shameful that I despoiled her of her jewels.
But such things did not count with my mother and me. I kept the Duchess--nothing else." He
smiled sombrely as he pulled out his watch. It was the little silver one he had used when we
played marbles together. "We paid fifty cents on the dollar," he said presently, "and by and
by shall manage something of a dividend at the bank. It will give me plenty to do for years
yet," he added with a peculiar smile.

"You have assumed your father's debts?" I exclaimed. "That seems a needless penalty, Jack."

"My father and I are as one," said he gently. "It was fortunate for me in every way that I
was not my father's partner. When I entered Holt & Co. he gave up everything to me. I have
the entire business now, and it leaves me little unoccupied time."

"You are doing well, I trust."

"Reasonably well." I knew the look on his heavy, sombre face--a patient but combative look,
powerful as Fate itself.

"Do you mind telling me the rest, Jack?" I asked after a time. "If it hurts you don't open
your lips."

The veins in his forehead swelled a little, yet he neither flinched nor reddened. "I suppose,"
he answered, his voice a little less clear and distinct, "you allude to my engagement to Miss
Lenox. It was broken off when these troubles came. We were to have been married a year ago
in June, but I was not quite free to take her travelling, and it seemed her wish to wait. The
wedding-day was quite fixed for a fortnight after the date of my poor father's sickness. Of
course I offered her her freedom at once when I realized my scanty prospects of ensuring her
a luxurious future. Naturally, everything was broken off. I am hampered by circumstances. I
shall never feel myself free to live even in ordinary comfort until my father's debts are paid
to the last penny. My first duty is to my father and mother. My sisters are all married, have
large families, and, above all, have lost the home feeling. We three are alone in the world
in our reverses. When you see our home, Floyd, you won't wonder that I could not ask Georgy
to come to it."

"But would she have come, Jack?" I stammered. "Was she faithful to you? would she not wait
for you?"

"Georgy is not romantic," he said kindly, "and has not been brought up in a school which inspires
the tenderest feelings. I should never have expected that sort of devotion from her, nor am
I one to inspire it. I knew at once when the dark days came that everything was over. Blow
after blow had struck me: just at that time that she should desert me was but one blow the more."

I threw my arm about him in the old way, but he did not turn now and smile into my face as
when we were boys. This gloom was not so easily dispelled.

He himself ended the silence that I could not bring myself to break. "I have heard of a divided
duty, but I can have no doubts, no dilemmas, as to mine. I believe that I am not fanciful--that
I see realities just as they are. If ever man found work lying close to his hands, I have found
it. If ever an entire and undivided responsibility rested upon human creature, it is mine.
Every instinct of my heart, every decision of my intellect, alike shows me that my duty lies
in the path which I am treading. Nobody on earth, nobody but God, knows just exactly what I
have felt the few past months. I couldn't write to you and Harry. Life had always been a pleasant
thing to me. My father was not a lovable man, nor was he in his home all that a son longs for
in a father. Still, he was rich and respected; he represented a beneficent financial power;
he controlled many interests, developed resources, carried out schemes which were useful alike
to poor and rich. I used to be proud to hear it said, 'That is young Holt, son of Adam Holt
of the ---- Mills.' Now I am obliged to bear with meekness, when he is called dishonest, when
he is classed with those who have suffered the punishment of convicted felons, when his pitiful
infirmity of body and mind is sneered at. We are living in our house as transient guests: as
soon as it can be sold we shall seek some humbler shelter. The pleasant household ways are
all gone: everything that used to gladden our eyes has been carried away. My mother's eyes
rest nowhere save on my father's face or mine: she cannot look at the bare places in the house,
for she thinks too much then of her great calamity. All these are troubles which cut me deep:
you don't know, Floyd, how disgrace burns into the soul--worse than bereavement, worse than
death. I have been bereaved of all, and I seem to have tasted the bitterness of a thousand
deaths. Still"--he turned abruptly and looked me in the eyes with a stiff white face--"there
are times when I feel but one loss. There is strength in me, and, please God, by and by I shall
shape things to their right ends again; but this other loss! I don't need to tell you," he
went on huskily, "how above and beyond all other objects on earth Georgy Lenox has been to
me. At times, retrievement, success, unsullied honor, all seem to me as nothing, since she
is not to be at the end of them."

We had reached the factories now, and he resumed his usual calmness, and I could see in a moment
that he was a business-man again. He asked me to stay and drive back with him, and dine and
spend the night, urging it on the plea that his mother would like to see me--that she had so
few pleasures. I consented against my wish, almost against my will.

CHAPTER XIV.

No one knows what change means, what frightful possibilities of sadness it covers, until one
has such an experience as mine that night. In former times the Holt house had been a sort of
fairyland to me: our own ménage was simple and inexpensive, and, in contrast, the profusion
and splendor of Jack's home had impressed me powerfully. Their expenditure was not moderated
by what we call good taste, and they did not possess that fine grace of compassing elegance
without ostentation which is one of the last results of culture; but as a boy I had missed
nothing that money could buy in their house, and I had often thought how my mother would shine
there. Mr. Holt had been a man to look up to with respect, although somewhat arrogant and dictatorial,
and Mrs. Holt--good, easy soul!--had enjoyed her prosperity with an equal pride and joy in
her husband, her children, her silver plate, her heavy silks and her jewels, which, displayed
in their satin cases, were the chief show in Belfield for the women, who used to tiptoe up
the grand staircase to Mrs. Holt's dressing-room, and come down with awe in their faces.

Mrs. Holt at this later time I write of was a sad, soft-eyed little woman, with a patient smile:
she was so much of a lady that her dress was neat and pleasing, although of the plainest. She
kissed me when I went in with Jack, and I felt like going on my knees before her. She treated
Jack as if he were older than herself, although with the utmost tenderness qualifying the respect
she gave him; but I was a boy to her still, and she looked lovingly in my face and told me
that she knew I was a comfort to my mother. I had been a good deal of a man in my own eyes
in Europe, but in these familiar places I did not feel much older than I had done six years
before, full-grown although I was, and so tall that I had to stoop very low to meet the little
woman's kiss.

"Here is father," said Mrs. Holt in a tender, cooing voice; and she went up to a feeble old
man in an arm-chair and began telling him that this was Floyd come back--Floyd Randolph, whom
he used to like so well years ago. Mr. Holt looked at me with hopeless, bleared eyes, and shook
his head and complained in mumbling tones that dinner was not ready, that nobody took care
of him, that he was neglected by wife and son.

Jack himself led his father to the table, and it was a hard task to guide the tottering footsteps,
but not so hard perhaps as for the poor wife to tend him while he ate as if he were a baby.
There are sad things upon which one may dwell, for some sorrows bring sweetness with them,
and give meaning and perfume to a life, just as the night is almost lovelier in its shadows
than the garish day; but I cannot write about Jack's troubles, for it was so pitiful to me
to see this strong man so fretted, so bound, by the fine chains which duty sometimes forges
for men. The meal we ate was of the poorest, but I think there is no bitterness in bearing
personal deprivation, and I did not pity Jack that neither the taste of the palate nor the
taste of the eye could be gratified at his board; but when I saw him playing backgammon with
his father afterward I did pity him. The old man's hand shook so that his wife had to guide
his wrist as he threw the dice, and he burst into senile tears if the throw did not suit him.
But Jack was hopeful and cordial through it all, and would patiently tell his father little
trifles of news about his business, and engage his attention so kindly that once or twice the
heavy fallen features would almost gather expression again. At such times happy tears would
start to Mrs. Holt's eyes. "I do believe father's getting better," she would say, looking at
her son.

It was still early, however, when Jack and I were left alone. He had carried the poor old man
to bed, and now for a few hours the burden had fallen from the son.

"Let us go out and walk about the old places," said he. "The house is dreary, is it not?"

"I have only thought of you all, Jack," was my answer. "My dreariness has not been induced
by the look of the house. Still, when I do look around and see the rich carpets gone, the pictures,
statues, all the thousand beautiful things we used to take pleasure in, I say to myself, 'This
just man will have his reward.' Don't despond, Jack: I tell you, things will come right again."

"Thank you, Floyd," said he in his cool way. "I am better for having seen you. But let us talk
of something besides my troubles to-night. It is a sweet evening."

He took my arm, and we walked out along the avenue into the street. It was a beautiful night,
calm and warm, with a full moon shining down upon the deserted squares. We went up the hill
and stood on the steps of the academy, then sat down upon a bench on the playground beneath
the poplars, and found our initials there where we had cut them years before. Missing Dart
in these old familiar places, it was natural for us to talk of him, for, well as Jack loved
me, Harry was his dearest friend. A peculiar tenderness had always knit their hearts together,
and it had been another sorrow to Holt that in all his trouble his cousin was too far away
to give him a glance of his eyes, a grip of his strong hand.

I told him all I knew of Harry. We had not been mistaken in our estimate of his genius: he
had not been in Rome three months before the famous Z----had become interested in him and allowed
him to study in his atelier. Every one predicted success for the young artist, and dealers
were already beginning to buy up his pictures, paying a mere song for studies to-day which
years hence they expected to sell for a big sum on the strength of the reputation he would
have gained. Harry's strong points were his unequalled distinctness of vision and his intensity
of feeling for art. He put a passionate throb into every movement of his brush. When once an
idea occurred to him as desirable to work out, it defined itself to his imagination with a
reality, a power, an amplitude of detail, which blinded him for the time being to everything
else, and he worked so faithfully that he stamped his conception and his meaning upon not only
every figure, but every accessory of his picture; so that the most commonplace observer gazed
at his canvas with some of the same feeling with which he gazed at an experience of life. But
Z---- was not yet satisfied to have him attempt compositions, and he was spending much time
over the curious processes by which the perfection of skill in art is attained--productive
analyses of coloring, light, shadow and the mellowed harmonies of time-worn pictures.

"We shall be proud of Harry by and by," said Holt as I paused. "I hope he won't stay too long
abroad. I have missed you so, Floyd!" And we fell to telling stories of our boyhood, and again
and again Jack's laugh broke the silence of the night, for there were droll tales to tell.
We heard the chimes of midnight before we stirred from our seat, and then we moved with some
reluctance, for the moonlight was rare, and the light upon the water where the sea-line showed
through the interstices of the trees was a silvery radiance too blessed to lose. But at last
we rose and moved carelessly homeward. We did not take the nearest way, but turned as with
one intention through another street than that by which we came. Our feet knew the way to a
little Gothic cottage on the hill, and we stood outside silently for a time. No sight or sound
of any creature stirring in the world but ourselves met eyes or ears. No light was in the windows,
and the blinds of a casement beneath the gable were close drawn. I wondered if a white hand
had closed them a few hours before, and if a fair sleep-flushed face and bright disordered
hair lay on the pillow inside. Just then some bird, brooding over her three eggs in her nest,
stirred drowsily and cooed softly at some delicious dream of love or maternity. It broke the
spell, and we turned to go away.

"Don't fancy," said Jack, "that this is a habit of mine. I have not been here before since
December."

"Is she here?"

"I have no idea. I never hear her name, and when I am in church I never turn to look."

I left Belfield early the next morning, and pursued my way to The Headlands. I had many thoughts
of Jack as I went on, wondering if this cruel and irremediable wrong which Fate had inflicted
was to shadow all his life. Indeed, I felt disheartened, for I had warm sympathies; and besides,
the cruel prose of his experience broke upon the easy, pleasure-loving harmony of my life like
the sudden crash of kettledrums in the midst of moribund flute melody. I had always possessed
too much leisure not to have become saddened and perplexed at times with doubts before the
eternal problem of life; and they all returned now, and not until I reached The Headlands in
the late afternoon did I rouse myself into an anticipation of the pleasant life I was to meet.

CHAPTER XV.

I was not expected: no one met me at the station, and, finding no conveyance, I walked on myself
to the place, and entered the grounds not more than an hour before sunset. Everything was curiously
calm and at peace except the breakers, which moaned against the rocks below as the tide came
in. The shadows were long upon the grass, and looked like things that had felt life all day,
but now had coiled themselves up for sleep. Beyond the trees the fiery sun still shone, gilding
the stately house with gold and resting lovingly upon the roses which clambered riotously over
embrasures and abutments, lighting up the piazzas and columns with their bloom. I recognized
a change at once in the aspect of the place: more windows and doors were open than formerly,
and the porticoes showed signs of careless occupancy with their chairs and afghans, tables
and a litter of books, papers and work. I stood before the door, gazing through the wide-columned
vista of the hall, and the infinite seemed open before my eyes as I saw the blue and opal-tinted
sea. But still there was no sound except the murmur from the shore, and nothing stirred except
the sunbeams as they climbed the carved balustrade of the great staircase and gleamed on the
frozen faces of a marble group in a niche. I did not ring at first, for it seemed as if my
mother or Helen must come out--that they were close at hand, picking roses on the terrace or
descending from their rooms. But it was Mills who presently issued from the dining-room and
saw me. He greeted me as if I were one of the family, and ushered me into the library as he
had done at the time of my first visit years before.

Sitting there quietly, I seemed for the first time to realize the fact of old Mr. Raymond's
death. I saw his chair by the fireplace, and the low seat on which Helen and I had sat together
many and many a time. I had not grieved at the old man's death, but had felt that weeping for
the dead might sometimes be a less dreary task than bearing with the living; yet here I could
not see these beautiful inanimate things, once his intimate surroundings, without a thrill
of regret that he was gone.

A shadow fell across the doorway, and a young girl came in, one of the sunset gleams reflected
from some of the endless mirrors of the house falling on her and lighting up her face. My first
thought was, "She is almost a woman:" my second was, "I had never expected she would be so
beautiful."

We had not spoken yet: she ran up to me eagerly and looked into my face, and I clasped her
hands. When I saw that she was crying there seemed to me but one way of greeting the child.
I took her in my arms and kissed her. It seemed strange, I think, to neither of us that we
should meet in this way. But when we looked at each other now, I felt a curious glow over my
face, and she hung her head and was blushing vividly, as I had never suspected the pale little
Helen I had once known so well, with her aspect of almost severe purity, could ever blush.
There was a new sort of beauty about her: a soft richness of tint and texture seemed added
to cheek and lip, and the old imperious concentration of her glance was, for the moment, quite
gone. Still, although I could easily see that she was frightened at her own temerity in allowing
my more than brotherly freedom, I could not find it in my heart to repent it.

"Where is my mother, Helen?" I asked, taking her hand in mine to reassure her, for I saw that
something was embarrassing her very much. "It seems I was not expected to-day?"

"Not so late as this," she explained; and presently I was talking freely with her, and she
was listening without a particle of self-consciousness in her manner. It appeared that my mother
and Mr. Floyd had gone out to drive, but would presently return to tea--that my mother had
been longing for me, and they had all wondered why I had delayed coming. This was all very
pleasant, uttered in the sweetest voice by my young hostess, and when she asked me if I would
go out and see the sunset from the terrace, it was very easy to say that I would follow her
anywhere.

She was a shy child still, I discovered, despite her tall figure, her pretty womanly shape
and elegant air. My manhood was too recent a possession not to be rejoiced in when I saw that
a woman's blushes came and went as she felt the weight of my glance. We went out of doors and
saw the surges breaking on the shore, but the waves seemed happy that night, and lisped joyfully
like children at their play. There was no voice of sorrow in all Nature: the birds circling
about their nests began glad strains, then hushed them only to break forth again into fresh
confused and joyful beginnings which they were too sleepy to finish. We talked of sorrow and
loss, yet I think neither of us was very sorrowful, although Helen's tears flowed unchecked
as she poured forth the simple narrative of her grandfather's last days--how he had never been
so tender, so self-forgetful, as then; how he could not do enough to show his deep love for
her; and then how, in the night, all at once, without a last look, word or caress, he was gone
and his tenderness was but a memory.

"I felt at first," said Helen, "as if there were no longer anything for me to do in the world.
It seemed a treason to poor grandpa that I saw how beautiful the crocuses were as they blossomed
in the beds on the terrace here, and when the mayflowers came I did not dare to pick them except
to put them on his grave. Then, you know, as not even papa knows, that with all my reverence
for my grandfather I had still had a terrible sense of responsibility mingled with my love
for him; and not even yet can I go out a few hours for a drive or a ride without my feeling
every now and then, through all my pleasure with papa, a sudden pang of dread. After such times
I run to his room: it is easy enough to believe then that he no longer has any need of me."

"You were all alone at first, Helen, until my mother came to you? Two weeks alone! It seems
dreadful."

"Georgy Lenox was here, you know."

"Georgy Lenox here?" I echoed in surprise. "I never heard anything so strange. How did it happen?"

Helen looked at me in her turn in astonishment. "Why was it strange?" she asked, as if regarding
the matter in a new light. "She was one of the family: she came to grandpapa's funeral. Cousin
Charles Raymond himself invited all the Lenoxes, for Mr. Lenox's mother was a Raymond--was
grandpa's own sister, I believe. Why was it strange?"

"Natural for her to come perhaps, but I should not have expected her to remain. You asked her,
no doubt?"

"No-o-o," returned Helen doubtfully. "I don't know how it was. The house was filled with people
for a week: then they went away and Georgy stayed. She said it was horrid for me to have no
lady near me in my trouble. Cousin Charles was here all the time until your mother came, but
his wife was ill in New York."

"And when my mother arrived Georgy left you?"

"No, indeed: she is still here. You see," said Helen with a little of her old imperious way
when she took control of things, "Georgy was greatly disappointed at the terms of the will.
She had been led to expect that she would be quite an heiress when grandpa died. I don't know
who taught her to believe in so strange an idea, for, to tell the truth, grandpapa did not
fancy Georgy. Poor girl! everything has gone wrong with her. She was to have been married to
Mr. Holt, you know, but it is all quite broken off; and she was very unhappy about that. She
hates being in Belfield, because she sees him all the time, and is reminded of what she is
trying to forget. So I asked her to stay here for a little while. You are not angry to find
her here, Floyd?"

I laughed with an indefinable feeling of embarrassment. "I shall be most happy to see Miss
Lenox," I rejoined; "and if I were not, it would be great impertinence in me to question for
a moment the doings of the lady of the house."

"I am not the lady of the house," said she, a little piqued. "Mrs. Randolph is that. I give
no orders now: everybody goes to papa. He says I have governed too long, and that I must be
a little girl again. It seems so strange sometimes to have nobody consult me: I do nothing
all day long but enjoy myself."

"But I belong to the old régime," said I, "and to me you will always be the châtelaine. I remember
how you used to give orders to Mills and Mrs. Black: I can still smell the aromatic odors of
the store-room when we used to make the weekly survey together, and can hear you talking 'horse'
solemnly with the coachman down at the stables. I am not at all sure if I shall like you so
well as a gay young lady of pleasure, with all your thoughts on your dresses and your lovers."

"As if I should ever think about my dresses or my lovers!" she replied with deep disdain.

"What do you think about?"

"I think about papa," she rejoined, still indignantly: "I think about your mother and you.
I have a great many nice things to think about without being taken up with those horrid subjects."

"'Horrid subjects'! Good gracious!" I exclaimed: "I intend some day to be somebody's lover:
shall I be a 'horrid subject'?"

She laughed frankly, a delightful girlish laugh which showed her little pearly teeth. "It depends
on how you behave," she said with a little nod. "Georgy Lenox has lovers: she tells me about
them, and I think them horrid."

"Do they come to the house here?"

"Oh yes. One is a stout man with a red face. He wears a solitaire diamond in his necktie. Papa
knows him: he was in Congress, and his name is Judge Talbot. Then there is a young man--not
so young as you, but still young. He remembers you: he used to be in Belfield. He is Mr. Thorpe."

"Tony Thorpe here? What unlikely people I come across! Which is Miss Lenox's favorite admirer?"

"As if she would have favorites among such admirers! Georgy is the most beautiful girl in the
world. Papa is not fond of her, but even he says she is a superb creature. Why does nobody
like Georgy? Papa does not, and I am sure Mrs. Randolph does not, nor do you. Yet she is so
beautiful, so winning, so clever!"

"You don't need to pity her for not gaining love," said I gravely. "My mother may not like
her, because she knew her as a faulty child who did considerable mischief first and last; and
Mr. Floyd dislikes her because--You know why he dislikes her, Helen. But many people love her:
I think few women in the world have won so much devotion. I have just seen Jack Holt, who had
to give her up, and I am far from believing that nobody likes her."

"But why did he give her up?" questioned Helen.

"Why did she give him up," I returned with heat, "except that he had lost his fortune, and
instead of being able to endow her with all the good things of life, himself needed aid, sympathy,
love and comfort?"

Helen stared at me: "But he told Georgy she was free."

"Suppose," said I passionately, "that a man had loved you from your earliest childhood, Helen--that
instead of your being possessed of wealth and other facilities for making your life all you
wished, you were poor and obscure, and this man had made every sacrifice to gratify every desire
of your heart. Suppose you had read his soul like a printed page, and found every thought in
it noble, lofty and pure; suppose you knew that his happiness depended on you--that without
you he could not have one sacred personal hope,--when you found that he was poor instead of
rich, would you throw him over as you put away a glove that is worn out, even though he told
you you were free--that although you had shared his prosperity he shrank from letting you endure
the pains of his adversity?"

Helen was looking at me with a curious look in her brilliant dark eyes, and still watched me
when I paused.

"Would you have accepted such freedom?" I demanded, impatient that she did not respond.

"I would have died for him!" she exclaimed abruptly, but she said no more about Georgy or her
lovers.

The sun had set, and the glory of the clouds was all reflected in the sea. The air grew chilly,
and we went in and watched at the front door for Mr. Floyd and my mother to return from their
drive. It seemed curiously like the old times, and once or twice I started at some sound, expecting
to hear a querulous voice and see old Mr. Raymond with his fur wrappings crossing the hall
leaning on Frederick, who carried his tiger-skin. Helen was too quick and sympathetic not to
understand my startled look.

"He will never come any more," said she sadly. "He is sleeping up on the hill beside his wife
and all his children. Had it not been for papa I should have felt that I must go there too,
it seemed so strange and lonely for him."

Presently through the pale gloaming came my mother from her drive, and when I lifted her from
the carriage and almost bore her up the steps in my arms, I felt a happiness and peace which
seemed but the beginning of a blessed time. My mother had grown perhaps a little older in the
last two years, but surely she had grown more beautiful. It was enough at first merely to look
into her face: then when I followed her up to her room we told each other many, many things,
but I invite none to follow me over that threshold.

"I took good care of your boy, Mary," said Mr. Floyd, coming up to us when we descended; and
when I met my mother's look I felt again all the proud humility that a son can feel, beloved
as I was beloved.

"He was not such a bad boy," pursued Mr. Floyd, ringing the bell and ordering tea, "and his
faults, such as they were, belonged to his age.--Don't open your eyes, Helen, as if you expected
to hear just what he did. I shall not betray him. All the world knows that when one is abroad
one may commit enormities which there may be put inside your sleeve, while here they are as
big as a meeting-house."

"I don't believe Floyd did anything wicked," remarked Helen with some spirit.

"We are at home now, Floyd," pursued he with an air of resignation, "and our little diversions
are over. The eyes of two women are upon us. No more cakes and ale--nothing but rectitude,
cold water, naps in the evening. I forgot, though, about our charming guest. While Miss Lenox
is here ginger will be hot i' the mouth, and life will have a slight flavor of wickedness still."

"But where is Miss Lenox?" I asked.

"Miss Lenox is far too brilliant a young lady to stay constantly in a dull country-house,"
said Mr. Floyd. "The cottage people over at the Point raffolent, as our friends abroad say,
upon the charming Miss Georgina. We have, after all, very little of her society. She goes on
yachting-parties, to dinners, luncheons, picnics--everywhere, in fact, where the delicate lavender
ribbons of slight mourning may be allowed. She has attended a déjeuner to-day, and we are every
moment expecting that our gates of pearl will unclose and admit a celestial visitant."

"Now, papa," said Helen, "you shall not make fun of Georgy. Nobody does her justice."

"Don't they?" returned Mr. Floyd dryly. "Fiat justitia, then! Ruat cælum! One would follow
the other in this case, I fear.--She generally, Floyd, brings home one or two in her train.
You remember Antonio Thorpe? That young man is so often here that I am beginning to regard
him as one of the regular drawbacks to existence, like draughts, indigestion, bills and other
annoyances outrageously opposed to all our ideas of comfort, yet inevitable and to be borne
with as good grace as may be."

"What on earth is Tony doing at the Point?"

"He dresses well," returned Mr. Floyd reflectively: "his hands are soft, his nails clean. I
don't think he follows any occupation which demands manual labor. I can generally tell a man's
business by his hands or his coat; but on Tony's irreproachable broadcloth not one shiny seam
discloses what particular grist-mill he turns."

"Of course he has no grist-mill," said Helen. "I thought he was a man of fortune."

"I was the guardian of his youth," observed Mr. Floyd, "and when he was twenty-one I paid over
to him intact the sum of money left to him by his father. It had originally been less than
fifteen hundred dollars, but by lying untouched for nine years at compound interest it had
nearly doubled. That was several years ago, and with the utmost frugality on his part I can't
see how he could have worn such decent coats on the interest of that money all this time."

"But you put him into business half a dozen times," interposed my mother: "I suppose he made
money."

"No, he never made any money. The only way Tony will make money honestly is by marrying a rich
girl. Not that I assume him to be dishonest or a sharper, for I do think him a gentleman, after
the fashion of Sir Fopling. He probably is considerably in debt, but floats himself from all
danger of sinking by speculation or the like. Five times I set him at work to make his living:
five times he was returned on my hands. His character possesses all the drawbacks of great
genius, without any of its resources: he is proud, discontented, misunderstood, with a talent
for failure."

"Is he a suitor of Miss Lenox's?" I asked. "He was never in the habit of admiring her."

"You can make up your mind," said Mr. Floyd with a shrug, thus dismissing the subject.--"Helen,
my child, looking at this young man impartially and judicially, what do you think of him?"
and he put his hand on my shoulder.

We were at tea, which was always an informal meal at The Headlands. Helen sat among the tea-cups,
my mother had a little table by her sofa, and Mr. Floyd and I walked about carrying cream and
sugar and cakes. I was on my way for a fresh cup when this question was put, and I went up
to Helen and sat down beside her.

"Impartially and judicially," said I, "what do you think of me?"

Mr. Floyd took his seat on the other side of her, put his face close to hers and began to whisper
all sorts of nonsense in her ear about me. "Tell him," said he, "to begin with, that he is a prig."

"But I don't know what a prig is."

"A prig is a handsome fellow born to create disturbance among the ladies."

She looked around at me and laughed. "Isn't he a goose?" she asked in a pretended whisper.
"Where was it in Europe that he lost his brains? He has brought none of them home."

"It may have been at Damascus," said Mr. Floyd. "Did I tell you that after I fell through the
trapdoor in Damascus and broke my ribs, they put a railing about the place and asked a piastre
for a look at the spot where the American gentleman almost came to an untimely end?"

But Helen did not laugh: she put her arm about his neck and brought his cheek to her lip, and
kept it there, giving it mute caresses now and then, while she smoothed his hair about his
temples with her little hand.

"I'll take some more tea, if you please," remarked Mr. Floyd after a while in a meek voice.--"I'm
obliged to endure a good deal of this sort of thing, my boy: it's not so unpleasant as it may
look, but nevertheless it requires some stimulant to keep up an emotion of agreeable surprise.
By the bye, what do you think of my little girl, now that she is quite grown up?"

"Don't dare to tell," said Helen. "I'm dreadfully vain all at once, for papa flatters me so
that the rugged courtesy of the outside world would seem hard to me. Still, papa's compliments
count for very little. When Georgy comes in presently just listen to what he says to her."

And precisely at this juncture there was a little commotion in the hall, and Miss Lenox did
come in with Tony Thorpe. She had spoken to my mother, kissed Helen and answered Mr. Floyd's
badinage before she saw me, yet when her eyes did turn toward me she showed no surprise.

"Have you come at last?" she inquired coolly, holding out her hand. "I am glad to see you again,
Mr. Randolph."

I greeted her as calmly, and said, "How are you, Thorpe?" to her companion, with another shake
of the hand. And then everybody sat down, and there was fresh tea brought. I noticed that Thorpe
was quite assiduous in his attentions to Helen over the cups and saucers, and seemed as much
at home in the house as a tame spaniel. Meanwhile, Miss Lenox had sat down by my mother and
begun telling her the events of the day. The déjeuner had been given on a yacht in the bay,
and had begun in mistake and ended in disaster: the wrong people had come, while the right
ones had been kept away, like the invited guests in the Gospel. The sun had been too warm,
the breeze too cool, the men who talked to her garrulous and stupid, and the women abominably
over-dressed.

"Dear Helen," cried Georgy with effusion, "I have wished myself at home with you all day.--Dear
Mrs. Randolph, tell me what you have been doing with yourselves;" and she wasted a slight caress
on my mother.

"Our doings were nothing remarkable in themselves," said my mother gently, with a little smile--one
of those smiles which women keep for use among themselves, and rarely give to men.

"Papa and Mrs. Randolph and I sat under a tree until dinner-time," said Helen. "We have been
very idle, but had a delightful time nevertheless."

"Praying all the time that Miss Lenox was enjoying herself at the déjeuner," drawled Mr. Floyd.

Georgy had risen and was crossing the room, and now, passing Mr. Floyd, paused and looked down
into his face as he surveyed her with a slightly satirical air.

"I am glad of anybody's prayers," she returned, quite unruffled, "but I am afraid, Mr. Floyd,
yours are merely a pretty figure of speech."

Mr. Floyd suddenly sprang to his feet and walked up and down the room with a restless way he
had. "I have it! I have it!" he exclaimed with a triumphant air. "It is a picture of a Wili
of whom you remind me, Miss Lenox. I saw it in R----'s studio at Rome.--Don't you remember
it, Floyd?"

I knew it very well, and was aware, besides, that R---- had got the face from Dart's sketch-book.

"What is a Wili?" inquired Georgy, looking at me. "You know I used to go to you for all my
bits of knowledge when I was a little girl, Mr. Randolph."

I rose and crossed the room to her side. "A Wili," said I, "is a betrothed maiden who dies
before her wedding-day. Your knowledge of your sex may tell you why it is that she is never
at peace in her grave, but is impelled by some unconquerable love of life to rise every night
and dance till morning."

"With whom does she dance? Her unfortunate lover?"

"Oh, where Wilis live you see them dancing together in the woods and fields by moonlight and
starlight, their white arms wreathed about each other and their long hair floating. When a
Wili meets a youth abroad in the night-time she beseeches him to dance with her; and the voice
of the Wili is so sweet, her eyes so terribly beautiful, her clasp so horribly close, that
whether he will or not he must join the fatal dance and keep pace with her eager, frenzied
movements. When morning comes the Wili has gone back to her grave."

"And where is the young man?" asked Georgy.

"They find him dead on the grass," put in Thorpe, who was standing behind Helen's chair. "It
is death to dance with a Wili."

"Both of you seem very experienced young men," remarked Miss Lenox calmly. "Did either of you
ever meet with a Wili?"

"I have frequently met them on flowering meads," I returned, laughing, "but when they invite
me to dance I tell them I am unable to dance with even the prettiest of live women, I am such
a miserable cripple."

"It's rather a pretty story," mused Georgy, "but I don't quite see what it means.--Do you, Helen?"

"It seems to be a sort of warning to young men to keep in o' nights," returned Helen with a
droll little air.

"Dead women never trouble me," said Thorpe, "but I have had no end of charming dances with
live ones.--Do you waltz, Miss Floyd?"

"Oh yes. Miss Lenox and I waltz together whenever we can get any one to play for us."

"That must be a tame amusement," rejoined Thorpe with an ineffable air of conceit.

"Thanks for the neat compliment," said Georgy, "but neither Miss Floyd nor myself suffer from
the tameness."

"Oh, allow me to explain--"

"We are not so dull but that we can understand even the most stupid bungle at a compliment
of any awkward man," yawned Georgy. "Some time, by and by, when I am very rich, and so old
that I don't care what happens nor how I offend my admirers, I intend to give to the world
a woman's opinion upon the fascinations of men."

"Bravo! I hope I may live a hundred or so years in order to hear it," said Mr. Floyd. "However,
Miss Georgy, it would be safe enough for you to tell us now that you hold men contemptible,
only practising your coquetries upon them for your own amusement, quite indifferent whether
your shafts hit or go astray. We could bear the ordeal, for we should know very well that circumstances
must vindicate us. We are, after all, superior to even the highest simian types, and our poor
fascinations shine by comparison with those of even the most intelligent baboon; so we should
be certain that, in spite of your opinion of us, you would go on making yourself beautiful
for our approbation to the end of your life, because you have, in fact, no other object worth
spending your energies upon."

"I confess," said Georgy, with a peculiar glance at Mr. Floyd, "some men are worth any effort."

Thorpe, after many vain attempts to engage Helen in conversation, took his leave, and when
I went to the door with him he begged me to stroll down the grounds to the gate. He had a three-mile
walk before him for his pains in coming home in the carriage with Miss Lenox, but he vowed
that the pleasure he always found at The Headlands recompensed him for any labor. He burst
into enthusiastic talk about the old times at Belfield: he remembered the charm of my mother's
house, he said, and the good times we boys had enjoyed together. How was Holt now-a-days? and
where was Dart? Was it true that Jack himself had thrown Miss Lenox over, or was the fault
on her side? "She is much admired," he went on. "How do you think her looking? She has many
lovers and two or three suitors. There is Judge Talbot, with his mind set on winning her."

"What category of her admirers do you come in?"

"I am neither lover nor suitor," he rejoined lightly. "Miss Lenox and I are on excellent terms
of camaraderie--no more. Were I to admire any woman from my heart, it would be the one I have
just left. Is she not the rarest, sweetest, dearest Lady Disdain in the world?"

"I cannot guess to whom you refer," said I, "for I am at a loss how to excuse the familiarity
of your speech in reference to any lady in the house except Miss Lenox."

"Now, Randolph," exclaimed Thorpe, putting his hand on my shoulder, "you shall not bluff me
off so. I would cut my tongue out before I used it too freely in praising a young lady like
Miss Floyd. I knew her as a child: her father is my best friend, my benefactor. Remember, if
I spoke too freely, that my Southern blood gives me more trouble than the chilly currents in
your Northern veins."

He spoke so eagerly, and with such perfect temper, that I was ashamed of my momentary outburst.
I shook hands with him cordially at the gate, and walked back slowly, looking at the heavy
bank of fog lying in the east over which the moon was peering, and thinking of my mother, of
Helen, perhaps a little of Georgy, although my heart was swelling with anger toward her still:
so I told myself again and again. Yet how beautiful she was, with a new and bewildering tenderness
in her manner! What had softened her? Was it suffering?

When I returned to the parlor she had gone up stairs, tired with her excursion, I heard, and
longing for a night's rest. I sat down by my mother, and we talked until midnight, while Helen
sang ballads to her father in the next room in a rare contralto voice which had gained strength
and richness since I heard it last.

When, finally, Mr. Floyd--who always put off going to bed as a final necessity--allowed me
to go up stairs, I found inside my dressing-case a folded paper on which these lines were written:
"The prettiest hour of the day at The Headlands is at seven o'clock in the morning, down among
the rocks."

I should have felt no doubt whose hand had put the notelet there even if it had failed to breathe
the perfume of violets, which no one who knew Georgy Lenox could hesitate to recognize.

CHAPTER XVI.

It was full two o'clock before I began to think of sleeping, but nevertheless I was on the
rocks next morning at seven; and my punctuality was rewarded by the sight of Miss Lenox walking
on the shore in a white dress. I clambered down and joined her before she seemed aware of my
presence: then she turned and laughed softly in my face. "What an early riser you are!" she
exclaimed. "You have brought excellent habits home from the lazy Old World."

"But it would be such a pity to miss 'the prettiest hour of the day'!" I retorted quickly.

"Were you surprised to meet me last night?" she asked.

"Perhaps so. I had at least not expected it. I was in Belfield on Wednesday, and supposed that
you were there."

"You could easily have found out my whereabouts if you had called upon mamma. I should not
have expected you to be in Belfield without going near our house."

"Mrs. Lenox has too often snubbed me in my boyhood for me to count upon her grace now," I returned.
"But I hope your mother is very well."

But it was very droll to me that I had embarked upon something like an adventure for the sake
of talking about old Mrs. Lenox. Still, Miss Georgy was well worth coming out to see with the
flush of healthy sleep still upon cheek and lip and the morning light in her eyes.

"Mamma is well," said she soberly. "Poor papa too: though he is worked to death, he is still
quite well."

"What does he do, then?" I asked. I knew that he was one of the book-keepers at the factories,
but I wanted her to be the first to speak Jack's name.

"As soon as Mr. John Holt went into the business," she returned, very coolly, "he gave my father
a position. He had promised to do it years before, and you know how well Jack keeps all his
promises."

"Jack is faithful and true," I said, looking at her keenly. "No one will ever be able to say
of him, 'That man has wronged me.'"

"What did he say about me?" she demanded suddenly, stopping short in her walk and facing me.
"I shall have no disguises with you, Floyd: you know me too well. I never really loved Jack,
good, kind and noble although I recognize him to be. When he offered me my freedom I took it.
How could I have endured to wait for him, ruined, disgraced as he was, through the uncertainty
and pain of years? It is impossible that he should be in a position to marry until my youth
is passed."

Her voice was so tremulous and pleading, her eyes and lips so eloquent, that she needed no
vindication. I pitied Jack more than ever, but still I no longer blamed her.

"You men have a hundred chances," she went on. "If the first fails you, you have no reason
for despondency, for a better one is sure to come. We poor women find our golden opportunity
but once. Do not call me mercenary or false. I was neither. I had been talked into a belief
that I ought to marry Jack, but when the trial came all the potential reasons failed. Had I
kept my engagement to him, I should have been a clog, an encumbrance, upon him: he is better
off without me."

"Nothing but devoted love could have held you to him in his trouble," said I. "If you did not
feel that, your bondage through a hopeless engagement would have been a terrible burden."

"Tell me what he said," she murmured coaxingly. "Is he angry with me? does he complain of me?"

"No: no man could have spoken of you more kindly."

"Is he forgetting me?"

I met her look and smile with a curious thrill that I thought I had lived down years ago.

"I am afraid, Georgy," said I, "that you are not one of those women whom men forget."

"Jack will forget me. He is wedded to his business: he is angry with the world, maddened, desperate.
I have walked out behind him at church in Belfield, and he has not seen me: I have met him
driving in the streets, and he has not turned his head. The men who once trusted and believed
in his father treated him shamefully after his misfortunes came, and Jack resented it: he goes
about the place seeing nobody, holding his head high, and showing the men he meets that he
asks no favor of any one of them. All the softness has gone out of him."

I told her how wrong her idea of him was, and presently found myself repeating many things
that he had said. Before I ended I had even let her hear of our midnight stroll about the place
and our look at the gabled room where we believed her to be sleeping. This pleased her.

"That is not unlike you," she remarked with charming complacency, "but I never before heard
of Jack's doing anything so poetic."

"Jack is not a man to write poems," said I, "but he is one of the men poets write about. After
you had gone up stairs last night Helen sang to her father, and the words of one of her songs
were Heine's: it reminded me of Holt beneath your window."

"One of those German songs? I understand nothing but English."

"They have translated it, and it runs like this:

          Silent the streets by night overtaken:
            This house my darling's presence did grace;
          But she the town has long forsaken,
            Yet there stands the house in the selfsame place;
          And there stands a man who upward is staring,
            His hands hard wringing in outbursts of woe!"

I paused and looked into her face.

"That is not all of it?"

"No: I will tell you the rest some day."

"Did Jack 'wring his hands in outbursts of woe'?"

"Good Heavens, no! I presume we both stood with our hands in our pockets: I was smoking a cigar
myself. It is only in poetry that one may be picturesque in one's grief now-a-days."

"Did you think of me when you stood there, Floyd?"

Her little fingers closed on the edge of my coat and she looked up in my eyes. I smiled demurely.
I was determined to be quite the master of myself with Georgina. I had suffered too much from
her in the past not to be on my guard. Still, it was hard to resist the upturned face--the
face with which was associated all the passionate inspiration of my early life--the face I
had carried in my mind and heart through all my wanderings, finding none to compare with it--the
face which always came with flash and quickness when I felt the warm desire and longing to
love somebody which youth must always know.

I kissed her.

She looked at me startled, and ran ten paces away and sat down upon a rock.

"Upon my word!" she exclaimed, bursting into light laughter, "you have learned pretty manners
abroad!"

"I am so glad you like them," said I, going up to her.

"But I don't like them at all," she retorted, shaking her head. "You remind me of a toy I used
to play with years ago--a very pretty, harmless, inoffensive-looking toy, but which when touched
unguardedly changed all of a sudden into a dreadful little fiend that flew right up into your
face. Such a surprise is enough to make one's hair turn gray."

"At any rate, I have vindicated myself from the charge of being, 'pretty, harmless and inoffensive,'
have I not? As for the gray hairs, I don't see one."

"I quite admired you last night," sighed Georgy, "you looked so interesting and innocent. Now--"

"Have I then suffered in your estimation?"

"I shall remember hereafter," she said with a delightful little laugh, "to whom I am talking.
Now let us forget all about it. There are other things I want to talk about. I want to ask
you how you like Helen."

"How I like Helen?" I did not fancy her question: I had never approved her tone regarding her
cousin. "I think Miss Floyd very beautiful, and a very elegant girl besides."

"Do you like her proud cold manner?"

"Is she proud and cold? Perhaps so to Thorpe: certainly, she is the most unaffected child where
the rest of us are concerned."

"She never forgets her wealth and position. I do not blame her: in her place I should be quite
spoiled. Think of it!" she went on, with such eagerness that tears stood in her eyes: "Mr.
Raymond left her everything--everything except a hundred thousand dollars which he gave to
a college. She is so rich that she can lose a hundred thousand dollars and never feel it. It
did not belong to the property, but came from a deposit which had accumulated ever since she
was a baby. She begged her grandfather to do some good with it: she did not want to have everything
herself. Might he not have given it to me?--Helen would have liked that--but no: he hated me
too well for that. It has all gone for a dreary old professorship in the college where he graduated
sixty years ago. And I am as poor as ever!"

"But Helen is generous with her wealth, I am sure: she will do a great deal for you."

"She gave me the money to buy the dress I am wearing, the very shoes on my feet;" and she granted
me a delicious glimpse of French slippers. "But do you suppose I like alms? If I am a beggar,
Floyd, it is from necessity, not because I have not plenty of pride. The child means to be
good to me, I suppose, but it makes me bitterly angry with her at times that she has the right
to be gracious and condescending. I am such an unlucky girl!"

But she laughed while she complained, and I echoed her laugh when she said she was unlucky.

"You unlucky!" I exclaimed. "You are one of those women who have it in their power to have
every wish in life granted."

"I am not so sure of that. Besides, it is hard for me to know what I want now-a-days. I used
to think if a fairy came offering me the fulfilment of my dearest longing, it would be easy
enough to secure lifelong happiness at once: I should have asked for wealth. But now they are
comfortable at home: they would not know how to spend more money than papa earns at the factory.
And I am comparatively rich: I have almost five hundred dollars in my purse, part of the thousand
which Helen gave me a month ago. I cried myself to sleep last night, I was so unhappy; yet,
all the same, I am not quite sure what I want. Life is so dull! That is what ails me, I think."

I looked at her in uncertainty as to her mood, but she left me in doubt, and began telling
me about society at the Point, her friend Mrs. Woodruff, and the houseful of guests. She told
me stories with some scandalous flavor about them, enough to give them a zest; she mimicked
all the earnest people and spoke with contempt of all the shallow ones; she appeared to have
fathomed all the petty under-currents which influenced people's actions, detected every shade
of pretension and studied all the affectations and habits of the men and women she saw intimately.
All this, too, without betraying any personal liking for one of them, and seeming to regard
them all as mere puppets, to some of whom she attached herself when there was anything to gain,
and from whom she withdrew herself when there was anything to lose. But she was too clever
to allow me time to think what qualities of mind and heart lay behind this philosophy, and
I was very much diverted.

"I must take you to see Mrs. Woodruff," she remarked. "You will be welcome in the set as flowers
in May. You are spending the summer here, I suppose?"

"I have no plans. Where my mother is I shall be for the present, I have been separated from
her so long."

"How beautiful! But about your future, Floyd? Have you a career decided upon, or are you to
be a gentleman of leisure?"

I flushed: "My resolution is not taken as to what I shall be--certainly not an idle man."

"I can tell your fortune," she said in a low voice. "You need not cross my palm with silver
for it, either."

"With gold, then?"

"I will tell it for love, but it is a golden fortune. You will marry Helen Floyd."

"No," said I with decision and some anger, "I shall never marry Helen. You do me too much honor.
She would never look at me; and if she would there is something within me which forbids my
marrying a rich woman. But it is nonsense. For Heaven's sake don't allude to it again! The
man who marries her will be, to my thinking, the most fortunate of men, but--"

"We won't talk about it," said she good-naturedly. "There comes Mr. Thorpe to bid us good-morning.
Astonishing how well he likes the walk to The Headlands!"

It was Thorpe indeed, carelessly but irreproachably dressed as usual, and looking at us with
a smile of internal amusement, which he was probably too well-bred to express in words, for
he merely drawled a good-morning and remarked on the beauty of the day.

"You're a famous pedestrian in these days, Thorpe," I said, rising with a trifle of embarrassment
from my seat as close to Miss Lenox's as the rocks permitted, "and an early riser too. When
I got up this morning at half-past six I told myself that I should see nobody for three hours
at least, yet both Miss Lenox and you equal me in my love for the early morning hours."

But Thorpe was indifferent, and I saw at once that his mind was too preoccupied to allow of
his wasting a thought upon the reason of my rising earlier than usual. "If you got up at half-past
six," said he coolly, looking at his watch, "you must be ready for your breakfast, for it is
a quarter to nine."

"I shall go in," remarked Georgy, rising and shaking out her white skirts and putting herself
to rights generally after the manner in which birds and women plume themselves. "Did you come
to breakfast, Mr. Thorpe?" she inquired with bare civility.

"I thought of dropping in," he returned; and as I assisted Miss Lenox up the ledge I turned
to see if he were following us. He seemed to be waiting, however, for us to get away, and when
I gained another distant glimpse of him he was apparently searching for something in a crevice
of the rocks. Yet we were scarcely on the back piazza, before he had rejoined us in high spirits,
and I was conscious of a gleam in his eyes which I had never seen before.

I could not resist speculations upon the reasons of his intimacy at the house, but dismissed
them all as idle, for I knew very well that the habits of a young man at a watering-place are
made by the necessity of filling up the hours of the day with occupation. The cottagers have
perfect leisure as a rule, and with amiable, courteous ways press upon all acquaintances an
incessant hospitality; and Thorpe, always frivolous, had at once fallen into the general way.
Here at The Headlands the house was still under the shadow of deep mourning, but his old acquaintance
with Mr. Floyd and my mother made his frequent visits admissible. At any rate, beyond Mr. Floyd's
unobtrusive sarcasm at his expense, I heard no objections to Thorpe's dropping in to breakfast.
Mills brought him a plate, and he himself chose a seat at Helen's left hand, and devoted himself
to her service in a way that I knew bored her immeasurably. He sugared her strawberries and
creamed them generously, and she sent them to her parrot. "I will take some more strawberries,
Mills," she said then, and treated Thorpe's further attempts to serve her with chilly disdain.

"Now that Floyd is here," said Mr. Floyd when we were through breakfast, "I shall indulge in
laziness no longer, but shall sit by and see him work." And the result was that for the next
two weeks he and my mother, Helen and I, all sat in Mr. Raymond's study for an hour or two
every morning and looked over his papers. Two or three times Mr. Wickham the lawyer came from
New York, and it was easy enough to see that Helen's property was so large, its investments
so various, that its proper care was work enough for one man.

"I shall look about for a husband for her at once," Mr. Floyd said half a dozen times to the
lawyer when we three men were alone: "nobody can expect me to waste my few energies in looking
after all these interests."

"Depend upon it, sir," Mr. Wickham would return with an easy chuckle, "you will find the world
full of young men who will be happy to relieve you of every responsibility regarding Miss Floyd's
fortune."

"They shall none of them have her," her father exclaimed once, fiercely--"not one! No man but
one who loves her for her sweet self alone shall ever have my little girl." At such times Mr.
Wickham always looked at me with a critical curiosity which I could forgive in so old a friend
of Helen's, but which at the same time robbed me of a certain composure I should have liked
to carry through the difficulties of my present position. For I was, in truth, performing all
the duties of an executor and mastering the details of the schedule of property, while Mr.
Floyd sat by and made jokes upon the way Helen would spend her income.

"Hair-pins cost a great deal," he would affirm solemnly, "and pins. How much pin-money had
the princess royal? Put down fifteen thousand dollars for hair-pins, black pins, white pins:
what other pins do women use?"

"But," I would expostulate, "you must attend to this."

"And why?" he would ask, turning his fine melancholy eyes upon me. "Don't tire me out, Floyd."

We were alone, although my mother and Helen were almost within hearing on the balcony.

"I am willing to do everything for you, sir," I said, "but nevertheless it seems to me that
it is scarcely prudent for you to entrust me with your duties. I am totally inexperienced;
my knowledge of finance is the mere mastery of figures; I am--"

"Look here, dear boy," said Mr. Floyd in a kind but weary voice: "I am only trying to save
you trouble. When I die you will take my place as Helen's executor and trustee. It would be
harder then for you to learn the mystery of all these details by yourself. Now I am here to
teach you."

  ELLEN W. OLNEY.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

TO THE RAINBOW.

          O Iris! bringing balm for Summer's tears,
            So lightly gliding down thy bridge of rose,
            I know not why my spirit drinks repose
          Soon as thy footfall the horizon nears.
          Spellbound I watch the crimson-shaded piers
            As arch by arch the blooming pathway grows,
            And where the richest flush of color glows
          I trace thy trailing garments. Sighs and fears
            Have vanished: in one long and ardent gaze
          Thy steps I follow down the heavenly slope.
            Iris, be mine thy message! Let thy rays
          Write out how I with destiny may cope.
            Ah! spanned with light would be all coming days,
          Could I but read thy oracle of hope.

                                    FRANCES L. MACE.

THE PARIS EXPOSITION OF 1878.

III.--FINE ARTS.

It is the "Memorial Hall" of the Champ de Mars--the Gallery of Fine Arts which there takes
the place of the familiar building in Fairmount Park--that has decided the really great success
of the Exposition of 1878. The unanimous verdict of popular admiration was given at Philadelphia
to the machinery: in Paris it is as strongly pronounced in favor of the fine arts. Paris is,
indisputably, the capital of modern art, and her title to this proud distinction is to-day
confirmed by the assembled peoples with all the solemnity and authority of a universal congress.

I have, like all visitors no doubt, yielded to the seductive spell of this magnificent collection
of objects of art, to which two worlds have contributed, and under the influence of the keen
and exalted enjoyment of the first few days I should have found it impossible to qualify by
a single censure the expression of my admiration. But after a short retirement in the country,
where I allowed my mind to lie fallow, I found that I could revisit the galleries of the Champ
de Mars with more judgment and method, and that the beauties of the first order, which I admired
as much as ever, no longer made me blind to the defects and the weak points of certain parts.

First of all, it must be admitted that the Exhibition of this year is not equal to that of
1855; and this is no more than was to be expected, when one remembers that the latter had brought
together the scattered masterpieces of the long period of half a century--a period illustrated
by such names as Ingres, Delacroix, Decamps and others. This splendid assemblage of so many
important works could not be repeated in 1867; and at that time there were unmistakable indications
that a new artistic current had set in, and we saw the first rays of the coming glory of the
painter of genre and of landscape--the triumph of Meissonier, of Gérôme, of Théodore Rousseau,
of Corot.

This year, the tiny, pleasing genre pictures are still very numerous, and in this respect the
Exposition of 1878 is not unlike that of 1867, while in another aspect it is superior to it.
If, on the one hand, we miss the names of the great masters of landscape, who, dying, have
left no successors, we have, on the other hand, to hail the advent of some others who have
risen above the level of genre and have returned to the traditions of high art: I refer to
MM. Bonnat, J.P. Laurens and Baudry. Thanks to these great artists, one can assert with confidence
that there has been an advance within the last ten years. And how art widens its borders and
augments the number of its adepts! How many painters there are to-day!--of the second or of
the third rank, to be sure, but masters of their business, skilful and conscientious. In 1867
the jury admitted but four hundred pictures. In 1878 it has had to receive eleven hundred!
Evidently, French art is in the fulness of its summer bloom. Its decline will come, for Art,
which knows no country, and has wandered from the East to the South, and from the South to
the West, will doubtless travel still, and will some day leave Paris to dwell with other races
and under other skies. But to-day her home is Paris--Paris, her well-beloved city.

Since 1871 especially, we have witnessed a fresh starting into life, an activity, indeed, almost
feverish. In 1871 and in 1874 the Minister of Fine Arts officially recognized a general return
toward serious and vigorous work, and in 1876 he bore testimony to the exceptional brilliancy
of the Salon, which showed the "influence and impulse of a genuine revival."

Historical painting, unfortunately, can never be adequately represented at exhibitions. Designed
for the civil and religious monuments of France, whence, from the nature of the case, they
cannot be removed, its most important illustrations are to be found at the Opéra, at the Palace
of Justice and of the Legion of Honor, at the museums of Marseilles and of Amiens, the Hôtel
de Ville of Poitiers, and in the numerous churches of Paris and throughout the country. The
immense work which Baudry has executed for the foyer of the Opéra is absent from the Exhibition,
and this great painter, whom some consider the first of his time, is not represented at the
Champ de Mars by even a sketch. Fortunately, the Palace of Justice has parted with two principal
works of Léon Bonnat, his Christ and Justice between Guilt and Innocence. The Panthéon has
permitted the exhibition of the large decorative paintings in which Cabanel has represented
the principal episodes of the history of St. Louis. But the largest historical canvases on
the walls of the gallery are those by J.P. Laurens, belonging to the museums of Florence, of
Havre, of Nantes and of Toulouse. Laurens delights in the Middle Ages, gloomy and stately periods
of ecclesiastical domination and feudal violence. He is the painter of tortures and of tombs
(the Exhumation of Pope Formosus, The Interdict, Francis Borgia before the Coffin of Isabella
of Portugal), but his vigorous and severe genius never suffers him to fall into overstrained
action and theatrical artifice. He does not move us by declamatory gestures and forced attitudes.
Nothing can be more simple, yet nothing more affecting, than the Execution of the Duc d'Enghien
and the Death of Marceau. Many young artists are following this new path, which has opened
such success to M. Laurens. MM. Cormon, Dupain (in his Good Samaritan), Benjamin Constant (Entry
of Mohammed II. into Constantinople), and Sylvestre (Locusta and Nero trying a Poison) have
sent to the Champ de Mars the fine historical compositions that gained for them the first medals
and the prize of honor at the last Salons. M. Tony Robert-Fleury has two vast canvases, the
Sack of Corinth and the Reform of the Mad-house in 1795--large and admirable compositions,
which engraving has already made popular. Of course we find M. Landelle's inevitable Eastern
Dancing-Girl, and an Italian Woman by M. Hébert. There could be no exhibition without these.
These two painters have talent, individuality, delicacy of feeling, but they are absolutely
without imagination. M. Hébert, in particular, has learned nothing since his Malaria, which
has been for a long time at the Museum of the Luxembourg. He has not discovered, nor even sought
for, anything beyond this; and this eternal repetition of the same subject is a malady which
afflicts too many of the artists of our day. One no longer distinguishes between the pictures
of certain of our popular painters. Even M. Luminais never travels beyond his specialty, which
is the barbarian Gaul, though he does vary somewhat the attitudes and physiognomy of his characters.
Henner and Ribot, two great artists, who are better appreciated by their professional brethren
than by the public, will undoubtedly gain much by this year's exhibition. The eulogy of competent
criticism will be accepted as authoritative, and will compel the admiration of the crowd, which
is not very apt to comprehend new and original forms in painting. Schopenhauer has classified
the professions according to the degree of difficulty which they find in making their merits
understood by the world at large; and he puts in the front rank, as the most quickly and easily
comprehended and applauded, acrobats, dancers and players; philosophers come last of all; and
immediately before them the painters.

Portraiture would seem to be more in esteem than ever. Everywhere along the walls are to be
seen nothing but statesmen, poets and women of the world, whose identity is indicated in the
official catalogue by initials only, but whom everybody recognizes at a glance. Many of these
portraits are life-like and admirable in expression, and one can say of them what Victor Cherbuliez
said of Mademoiselle Nelly Jacquemart's picture of Thiers: "The house is inhabited: some one
is looking out of the window." This time Mademoiselle Jacquemart exhibits portraits of M. Duruy,
M. Dufaure and a young lady. Singularly enough, she paints men better than she does women.
Her portrait of Mademoiselle G---- B---- is very inferior to the others. Virility, in short,
is the distinguishing characteristic of the talent of this woman.

M. Cabanel's portraits of women of the great world are conventionally painted, and with the
coldness of manner which distinguishes him. One feels that if these fine creatures should speak
they would utter nothing but the commonplaces which pass for conversation in the salons. The
duchess of Vallambrosa--"the queen of the strand," as they call her at Cannes--Madame de Lavalette,
the countess of Mercy-Argenteau, are all there, as if against their will and disdainful of
the vulgar herd which is staring at them. To make amends, however, the duchess of Luynes is
charming, surrounded and, as it were, adorned by her beautiful children. M. Cabanel is the
recognized head of what may be called the official school. To get medals and crosses or the
prize of Rome, to obtain commissions from government, it is now-a-days almost necessary to
have been his pupil. Never had painter a more lofty position. Perhaps it is the opinion at
the ministry of Fine Arts that Bonnat and Laurens will be so well paid by posthumous fame and
the admiration of future generations that it is but fair to keep the balance between the masters
even by rewarding M. Cabanel in his lifetime.

I have said that there are many portraits at the Exhibition, but I do not mean to complain
of this. Indeed, we cannot too highly applaud the revival of this noble branch of art, to which
we owe the Joconde of the Louvre and the Violin-player of the Sciarra Palace. Many a fair young
girl unknown to fame, many a matron whose quiet life will pass unheeded by the world, will
by her portrait enter into immortality. Torn, sooner or later, from the family roof and carried
to a museum, there to be gazed upon by thousands of eyes, her smile or her reverie will recall
for generations to come that sigh of Sénancour's: "O woman that I might have loved!"

It is doubtful if this regretful tribute to genius--which may perhaps some day be heard before
the portraits of Henner, of Bonnat or of Madrazzo--will ever be inspired by those of M. Carolus
Duran. This artist is the painter of elegant trifles and worldly vanities, of grand and striking
toilettes, of blondes in violet and yellow and brunettes in gray and rose, for, like M. Worth
the man-milliner, it pleases his fancy to attempt the reconciliation of the most inimical colors.
For the rest, the future will no doubt owe him a debt of gratitude for the precious evidence
which his pictures will furnish of the dress of the period. Indeed, without the help of certain
of our portrait-painters future investigators would find themselves sadly at a loss in reconstructing
the Paris of Napoleon III. and of the Third Republic. We are so much under the influence of
the past that our artists scarcely have the sentiment of the civilization which surrounds them.
Our colleges send us into the world, not Frenchmen, but Greeks and Romans, knowing nothing
of modern life, and inspired by our classical studies with a profound contempt for the manners
and usages of the present day. Our statues, bas-reliefs, medals and pictures represent the
events of all ages except our own. The attempts in the direction of realism of these latest
days, the paintings of Courbet and Manet, seem, by a sort of instinctive preference, to seek
out the ugly, rather than to give us an exact reproduction of contemporaneous Nature. Some
of our genre painters--Millet, for example, and Jules Breton--have, it is true, studied the
actual and the modern, but their types are all taken from the rustic class, and it is safe
to say that outside of portraiture neither the men nor the women of the world will leave a
trace upon the art of the period.

Let us note, however, one exception to this statement. I refer to certain painters of military
scenes who have chosen to call up the spectre of the Franco-German war--Édouard Detaille, Neuville,
Boulanger. These have ventured to depict one side of modern life--and an important one, alas!--modern
warfare, not by showing us those episodes of classical combat where half a dozen cavaliers,
mounted upon their heavy historical horses, fight hand to hand for the possession of a flag,
and trample under foot a wounded wretch whose very pose is traditional, but by giving us actual
scenes witnessed during the autumn of 1870 and the winter of 1871--scenes often frightful,
but always grandly effective and worthy of art. A sentiment of diplomatic propriety, with which
the Germans were but little troubled at Philadelphia, has naturally kept these paintings out
of the Champ de Mars, and banished them to Goupil's in the Rue Chaptal. We certainly do not
complain of this, but we cannot help regretting that modern life should be so slightly represented
in the art of an epoch indued with a life so intense. There are laurels yet to be won in the
field of serious painting--triumphs such as Balzac, Thackeray and Tourgueneff have achieved
in literature, and Gavarni in caricature, by the faithful representation of phases of modern life.

Since so many Frenchmen are converted by their early classical training not only into citizens
of Rome or of Athens, but into veritable pagans, we naturally find the Exhibition full of gods
and goddesses, of demigods and nymphs--the Truth of M. Jules Lefebvre, for instance, and his
Vision, losing itself in the mists of morning; the Sarpedon of M. Lévy; M. Bouguereau's Flora
and Zephyr and Meeting of Nymphs; the Naiads of Henner, etc. Amongst all these mythological
tableaux one's attention is arrested by the striking productions of M. Gustave Moreau, a remarkable
union of technical ability and poetical fancy--hallucinations of an opium-smoker who should
be able to paint his visions with all the confidence and knowledge of a master. Paul de Saint-Victor,
the eminent critic, has called these canvases "painted dreams;" and they cannot be better described.
Hercules fighting the Hydra of Lerna, Salome, Jacob and the Angel, Moses exposed upon the Nile,
are dazzling phantoms, which, eluding the literal text of history, recede to the depths of
an unknown past. We do not think of discussing their accuracy: we are absorbed in admiration
of this wondrous art, at once subtle and splendid, which makes us dream of lost civilizations
and buried empires. Gustave Moreau is more than a painter: he is a magician and his pencil
is an enchanter's wand.

For the rest, we have plenty of archæological painters, who painfully restore antiquity for
us, following accurate authorities and examples. The curiosity to know the past, which has
created a literature of its own, the researches of travellers and of learned men, the excavations
made in Greece, in Asia Minor, in Africa, at Pompeii, have led many artists to search for new
effects in this direction. Every one will recall the circuses and the Roman scenes of Gérôme.
This year he exhibits hardly anything but modern Oriental subjects--Turkish baths, Bashi-Bazouks
and lions--but his pupils have now taken the place which their master held in 1867. Hector
Leroux, one of the thousand and one painters of this Neo-Grecian school, shows us a Toilette
of Minerva Polias and A Miracle in the Temple of Vesta, his most celebrated work. Gustave Boulanger
exhibits his Roman Baths, his Roman Comedians rehearsing their Rôles, and his Roman Promenades,
which the wealthiest amateurs, MM. Aguado, André, Stebbins, contended for at the late Salons;
M. Lecomte du Nouy his Pharoah slaying the Bearers of Evil Tidings and his Homer Begging; while
M. Alma-Tadema completes the group with his best-known pictures, including The Studio of an
Antique Painter, An Audience at the House of Agrippa, and The Vintage at Rome, which was also
at Philadelphia. Americans will remember the young reddish-haired priestess of Ceres, so elegantly
attired and coiffée, advancing with torch in hand and followed by flute-players. The details,
which are multiplied almost to profusion, are all calculated to enhance the effect, and are
distributed with exquisite art. The amount of research which this work suggests is almost incredible,
and it was perhaps a more laborious undertaking to paint the Vintage at Rome than to write
the Carthaginian romance of Gustave Flaubert. Alma-Tadema exhibits in the English gallery,
and his contribution has raised the average of that section by a good third. If I have spoken
of this painter in connection with the pupils of Gérôme, it is that, considering his place
of birth (Dromvyp, Netherlands), I think that I have an equal right with the English to classify
him according to my fancy.

But let us leave the remote antiquity in which the poet-painters of the Neo-Greek school delight
to dwell, and come back to modern times. Passing through one of the central rooms, one is struck
by the appearance of a great space of gilded wall hung with pictures considerable in number,
but mostly quite diminutive in size. It needs no reference to the catalogue nor to the signature
of these works to tell us the name of their author. If the singular talent which they display
were not enough, the mise en scène would leave no doubt that this extraordinary piece of wall
has the honor of supporting the exhibit of M. Meissonier. M. Meissonier holds a great position
in contemporary art--a fact which is known to everybody, and to no one better than to M. Meissonier.
But it was in 1867 rather than in 1878 that he ought to have gilded his wall. It was in the
former year that he exhibited his 1814, his Reading at Diderot's and other incomparable works,
which placed him beyond all dispute at the head of the French school. To-day he shows us but
one considerable work, the Cuirassiers of 1805, and fifteen small pieces--very pretty things,
but then he has taught his pupils to imitate him too well! They have so often and so skilfully
counterfeited the art of their master that the dignity of his work seems lessened and its value
diluted, as it were, until for the substance we are given the shadow, and the tableau is replaced
by the tableautin. The same tendency to contraction is apparent in every country. Paintings
are growing smaller, as if to keep in proportion with the small modern salons. That this is
due to the great influence of M. Meissonier there is no doubt, but no diminution of his own
fame accompanies the dwindling of his pictures.

And yet there are half a dozen painters at the Champ de Mars who lack nothing but the golden
wall to make them the equals of the master. M. Detaille is absent, but we have M. Worms, with
seven little chefs d'oeuvre; M. Vibert, with his Departure of the Spanish Bride and Bridegroom,
the Serenade, and the Toilette of the Madonna; M. Firmin Girard, with his Flower-Girl; M. Berne-Bellecour,
in his famous Coup de Canon; MM. Fichel, Lesrel, Louis Leloir and others whom I have not space
to mention, as exact and as minute in detail as their chef, and, moreover, almost as well paid
by amateurs, especially Americans.

Landscape-painting mourns the loss of its greatest masters. Amongst all the painters, Death
seems to have singled out the paysagistes by preference. Since the last Exhibition how many
have gone! Chintreuil, Belly, Corot, Courbet, Daubigny, Millet, Diaz, are no more. A few canvases
recall them--the Wave of Courbet, an admirable effect of snow by Daubigny, and four or five
pictures by Corot--but one regrets that the illustrious dead have not had the honor of a room
apart. The members of the jury have been careful to keep the best places for their own works,
while the masterpieces of departed genius have been banished to the top of the walls or half
hidden in corners. M. Cabanel and M. Bouguereau fill whole rooms with their pale compositions,
and--Millet is absent!

Has the school of French landscape-painting survived these serious losses? We may reply with
confidence that it has. This very year, in the Exposition of the Champs Élysées, the Haymaking
of M. Bastien Lepage reveals a great painter. At the Champ de Mars there are admirable landscapes
by living artists--Hanoteau, who with such masterly power of execution bends and crooks in
every direction the knotted branches of his giant oaks; Émile Breton, painter of the melancholy
scenes of winter; Harpignies, faithful interpreter of the varying aspects of the valley of
the Allier under all the changes of day and season; Eugène Feyen and Feyen-Perrin, who delight
us with the sea-coast of Brittany and its fisher-women and bathing-women; Van-Marcke, who is
less than the successor, but more than the imitator, of Troyon; and finally, MM. Pelouse and
Ségé, representatives of new forces and processes.

Americans are supposed in Paris to prefer highly-finished and elaborate work, like that of
Gérôme, but I have seen in America examples of the painter who elaborates least of all, who
lays on his colors in the boldest manner--in a word, the painter of general effect, Isabey.
It is refreshing to meet again, here, his Wedding-Feast, a delightful repose to the eye, almost
wearied with minute perfection of detail.

Before quitting the labyrinth of French art we must not forget a class of painters who have
received a great deal of admiration, and who deserve it, whatever rank one may be disposed
to assign to their special branch of art. I refer to the painters of still-life. There is Vollon,
for instance, whose name suggests those wonderful representations of armor, of rich goldsmith's
work, superb tapestries and damascened metal, to say nothing of the equally admirable counterfeits
of warming-pans and saucepans, which delight the lover of nature-morte. We find here his famous
kettle of red copper, sold at a price which might suggest that it was of solid gold. Amateurs
and dealers pronounce Vollon the first of painters in his specialty, though there are some
who profess a preference for his rival, Blaise-Desgoffes, of whom there are three examples
in the Exposition; and though these are only Venetian glass, Gothic missals, jewel-boxes and
the like, there are some of them worth thirty thousand francs at the very least: it will be
understood that I speak of the paintings, and not of what they represent. Philippe Rousseau
displays not less than a dozen pictures, and the names of their owners, Alexandre Dumas, the
baroness de Rothschild, Barbedienne, Édouard Dubufe, etc., show how much he is the mode. Indeed,
it is impossible to imagine cheeses more savory, fresher oysters, peaches and vegetables more
inviting, and flowers--I had almost said more fragrant, so perfect is the illusion of reality.

But we must tear ourselves from these fascinating galleries, for should we write for ever we
shall always be sure to forget some celebrity who deserves to be mentioned. We have said nothing
of the scenes from fashionable life; nor of the dogs and horses which MM. Claude and J. Lewis
Brown render so capitally; nor of the portraits of Pérignon, Édouard Dubufe and Cot; nor of
the flowers of Mademoiselle Escallier. Three great names, Jules Dupré, Rosa Bonheur and Puvis
de Chavannes, are absent--one knows not why.

Belgium is next in order--thrifty Belgium, where painting is a commercial industry and its
products an important article of exportation. The Belgian display in the Champ de Mars is certainly
a considerable one in point of numbers, which will not surprise us when we remember that there
are at least twelve art-schools in the country--to say nothing of the great academies of Brussels
and Antwerp--where hundreds of young men are daily drilled in the grammar and technique of
art. But genius is the gift of Nature, not of schools. All that the latter can bestow is probably
here, but we miss the imagination, the variety, the sentiment of the born artist, and it needs
no very critical examination of these paintings to show us that the acquired dexterity of the
academy, the mere business of the painter, is almost the only characteristic of the Belgian school.

There are some examples of "high art," such as The Pope and the Emperor of Germany at Canossa
in 1077, by M. Cluysenaar, a composition as cold as it is vast; some illustrations of the national
history by M. Wauters, who reminds us, in some respects, of the great French painter Laurens,
though lacking his power; and there are the historico-religious pictures of M. Verlat. But
much the best things in the Belgian collection are the numerous works of a painter whose aims
are not so high, and who in Brussels seems like an exile from Paris. M. Alfred Stevens draws
his inspiration from fashionable life; and no Parisian could surpass the execution of his velvets
and laces and the thousand new stuffs which Fashion invents every year--gants de Suède, and
faces too of a certain type, the pretty chiffonnées faces of girls of every rank in life. But
the pretty faces are, after all, mere accessories in a picture where the principals are the
hat and the dress and the parasol, upon which, as any one can see, the artist has bestowed
all his loving care. Nothing of his, however, in the Exposition can compare with his Young
Mother, which I saw last year in the Academy at Philadelphia.

Next after Stevens, in point of reputation, comes M. Willems, who really belongs to the French
school of Gérôme, but who feels himself under obligation, in his character of Fleming, to paint
nothing but what Terburg and Metzu painted two centuries before him. The man without a plumed
hat and big boots and a great sword at his side has, for M. Willems, no existence. I would
not say that he does not paint hat, boots and sword as well as the old Flemish masters themselves
did, but while they drew from the life he paints at second hand, and the modern artist who
passes his days in the vain effort to revivify the models of his predecessors will always rank
below the masters whom he imitates, as M. Willems does, with so many others whom a false public
taste encourages in a hopeless pursuit.

There are no landscapes in the Belgian section, if one may be allowed to except the marines
of M. Clays, and yet Belgium can boast of at least one excellent paysagiste, M. César de Cock,
who, unfortunately, is not represented in the Exposition.

French painters have often been blamed for neglecting the material around them, and for trespassing
upon the domain of foreign artists by representing Russian peasants and Italian beggars or
selecting subjects from Spain or Japan; but I have looked in vain through the various galleries
for any evidence that other countries are a whit less obnoxious to this reproach than our own.
Each nation forages in its neighbor's field. Is it too much to hope that modern art may free
itself from the bondage of a senseless fashion, and may take to the study of the living types
close at hand? Russia and America, for instance, have shown themselves capable of producing
a literature distinctively national and characteristic: must they ever remain without a school
of art as indigenous to the soil, and shall their painting never have its Tourgueneff and its
Bret Harte? The law of development may require that the birth of a nation's art shall succeed
that of its letters--though the history of the Renaissance would seem to contradict this theory--but
whether this be so or not, it is certain that one does not imagine one's self in Moscow while
perambulating the Russian salon in the Champ de Mars, where the best representative of the
national art, M. Siemiradski, has chosen for the two paintings which have deservedly won a
medal of honor subjects from ancient Rome--the one an amateur hesitating in his choice between
two articles of equal value--namely, a chased cup and a female slave--and the other representing
a soirée of Nero. The subject of this last is horrible. The tyrant, crowned with flowers and
surrounded by women and freedmen, descends from his palace. Attached to long poles and besmeared
with pitch, ready for the fatal flame, are the living bodies of wretched Christians which will
illumine to-night the gardens of Cæsar. Living Torches is the title of the picture, which is
one of the most successful paintings of the Exposition, and has given its author a high rank
among contemporary artists.

The painters of the United States naturally feel the inspiration of the country of their sojourn,
be it France or Italy or Germany, for most of them study abroad; but it is to be hoped that
they will, after their return to their own beautiful land, find motives for grander and more
picturesque studies than these hackneyed Old-World scenes of ours can afford. Mr. Bridgman
has painted--and well painted too--the Obsequies of a Mummy upon the Nile, but why could he
not as well have gratified us with some equally impressive scene from the life of the pioneers
in the Far West, where wondrous landscape and romantic incident might so well combine to furnish
a new sensation to the amateurs of London and Paris? Mr. Du Bois deserves our thanks for his
View upon the Hudson, and so does Mr. J.B. Bristol for his upon Lake Champlain. The admiration
which these two pictures have excited, amongst critics as well as the public, is evidence enough
that these two painters, or Mr. Wyatt Eaton or Mr. Swain Gifford or Mr. Bolton Jones, may,
if they so will, make American landscape the mode in Europe. Mr. J.M.L. Hamilton has, to say
the least, damaged his prospects of success by a strangely inconsiderate choice of subject.
Critics do not deny that his Woman in Black is firmly and solidly painted, but they are quite
unanimous in the opinion--in which everybody agrees with them--that the composition is in the
worst possible taste. I have a vague recollection of having seen this painting in Philadelphia,
and Americans may recognize it by the general description of a woman smoking a cigarette and
holding her knee with both hands. Altogether, it might have been tolerated in another age and
country, which took no offence at the coarse manners of Dutch fairs and merrymakings, but we
are not living in the time of the kermesses, and Mr. Hamilton, moreover, is not a Hollander,
but a Philadelphian.

The contribution of Sweden, Norway and Denmark may be said to be, upon the whole, less important
than that of the United States, and to show, perhaps, less ability in execution; but it has,
upon the other hand, the charm of local interest, which the American collection lacks. It is
refreshing to meet with these honest, simple little pictures of Scandinavian life, with its
typical faces and figures, its costumes and interiors, all so little known to us, and so delightful
from their novelty. Amongst the Danish painters we may note especially the names of Exner,
Carl Bloch, Kroeger and Bache; and amongst the Swedes, those of Zetterstein, Ross and Hagborg,
who follow very closely, in manner and composition, the German school of Düsseldorf.

Art is migratory. If she sojourns to-day in France, it is but as a guest who reposes a while
ere she continues her unceasing journey. This reflection--with which we opened our rapid review
of the Exhibition in the Champ de Mars--haunts us especially as we linger in the galleries
devoted to Holland and Italy. Even in those favored lands, where Art once seemed to have fixed
her eternal abode, the inspiration of genius is succeeded by the technical skill of the academician.
There are excellent sea-pieces, by Mesdag and Gabriel in the Dutch gallery, but Italy, which
has fairly crowded her allotted space with canvases, has nothing to challenge our admiration
except a few pretty genre pictures. M. de Nittis--whom, by the way, we are apt to think of
as a Parisian, but who is, it appears, Neapolitan--exhibits a dozen pictures quite as modern
in conception as the latest scenes from the comedies of Henri Meilhac, and which will, one
day, serve as valuable documents in the authentication of the manners and costume of the present
epoch. Connoisseurs of the twenty-first century will curiously study our cavalcades in Hyde
Park or upon the Brindisi road, the return from the races on the avenue of the Bois de Boulogne,
and the hundred other incidents of our every-day life, certified by the signature of Nittis.
Clear and brilliant, too, and full of movement and gayety, are the compositions of MM. Michetti,
Mancini and Delleani (A Fête on the Grand Canal, The Return from the Fête of the Madonna, etc.);
but the most remarkable of these little Italian masters is Pasini, the Orientalist. His Suburbs
of Constantinople and his Promenade in the Garden of the Harem are pictures on which the eye
may feast, so finely drawn are their diminutive figures, so wonderful is their variety of intense
color--yellow, blue, green, rose--and so clear and transparent withal, startling and amusing
us like a display of fireworks.

In the English section are plenty of old acquaintances: we have seen them at Philadelphia,
in London and I know not where besides. Frith's Railway Station and Derby Day we all remember,
so badly realistic and modern, and the Casual Ward of Fildes--pictures that have gained in
England the popularity and success due to veritable works of art, and in Paris the sort of
praise we should give to a large colored photograph--if it were well done. This English school
is hardly to our taste: Leslie, Leighton, Millais, Orchardson, the painters most in vogue in
their own country, have not succeeded in overcoming the cold indifference of the public, who
pass through the galleries without caring even to stop. Whence comes the strange disregard
for art in a country which lavishes such vast sums for the encouragement of artists? Here are
canvases which have been covered with gold, but Parisian criticism treats them as contemptuously
as if they were mere chromo-lithographs. The English school is severely condemned for its inharmonious
colors, which are either too violent or too cold; for its drawing, which is without what we
call distinction; and for that unaccountable light which seems to shine through their figures
from within, giving many of the heads the appearance of lanterns. Naturally, Professor Ruskin
comes in for his share of this harsh criticism--which, I beg my readers to observe, is not
ventured as my own, but is only the echo of the opinion of competent authorities, members of
the Institute of France--and the veteran apostle of Pre-Raphaelism is accused of an affected
simplicity, and, at the same time, of an offensive and coarse realism, of a mongrel combination
of the styles of Courbet and of the old missals, of a want of perspective, and, in short, of
all the faults which mark the contemporary English school.

It was only at the last moment that Germany decided to exhibit, and it would be hardly fair
to judge of the art of that country by the small number of examples on the walls. There are
some paintings by M. Knauss and his followers, however, in whom, if we may accept the opinion
of certain connoisseurs, is to be found the true representation of the genius of the land beyond
the Rhine. The subjects are invariably peasants or children, rendered according to the monotonous
processes of this school, the shape clearly projected upon a dull and sombre ground, the attitudes
correct and the gestures faultless, but there is an absence of everything brilliant or striking.
No one of the attributes which go to make up a good picture is allowed to assert itself above
another: there is an equalization of many talents, sure of themselves, and as incapable of
weakness or failure as of telling strokes of genius. One cannot fail to look with curiosity
at the Furnace of M. Menzel, a picture of much celebrity in Germany, representing an immense
foundry with its massive framework of iron, its machinery and furnaces, the powerful glare
of light from a melted casting vividly illuminating the faces and figures of the workmen. Worthy
of mention too are the portraits of men by the Bavarian Lembach, and Richter's fine portrait
of the beautiful princess Karolath-Beuthen in a ball-dress of white satin, seated by the chimney
with an enormous house-dog at her feet. Nor must we omit the Baptism after the Death of the
Father by M. Hoff, the chief of the Realistic school, and the landscapes of the two Achembachs
and of Breudel and Munthe.

One of the greatest successes of the Exposition has been achieved by Spain. M. Pradilla's remarkable
composition representing a passage from the national history--the mad queen Joanna watching
by the corpse of her husband, Philip the Handsome--has received a medal of honor. This important
painting, which was exhibited at Philadelphia, has attracted so much attention at Madrid during
the past two years that the Chambers voted a sum for its acquisition by the state. MM. F. and
R. de Madrazzo, father and son, who are well known in America, are also represented, the former
(who is director of the Museum of Madrid) by some admirable portraits, one of which is especially
noticeable. In a large arm-chair covered in red reclines a very young girl, whose dress, of
a light rose-color, is nearly of the same tint as her own delicate complexion, while the red
carpet at her feet, the carnations and red geraniums upon the table, all thrown out boldly
upon a background of intense blue, produce a strange but wonderfully harmonious effect of color.
M. Madrazzo's eldest daughter was the wife of the young and lamented Fortuny, and her bright
and lovely face reappears in many, if not in most, of the compositions of her gifted husband.

Fortuny, who sold his first picture to a costermonger in Madrid for a bag of peas, is represented
at the Champ de Mars by several canvases, the smallest of which would bring forty thousand
francs. His best works are in France. The Wedding at the Vicarage, his chef-d'oeuvre, belongs
to Madame de Cassin; M. André owns his Serpent-Charmer; and the well-known Choice of a Model
and The Judgment-Hall at Granada are in the possession of M. Stewart, the painter's intimate
friend, whose collection of Fortuny's works is worth, at the current prices of the day, not
less than six hundred thousand francs. Fortuny's painting is indescribable. It has the sparkle
of diamonds and rubies and emeralds in the brilliant light of a ball-room. His figures are
small, and as minutely elaborated and as highly finished as those of Meissonier himself, whose
cherished pupil he was; and I could not but smile, while examining them, at the notion of an
enthusiastic young Philadelphian, an almost idolatrous worshipper of Fortuny, that he could
imitate this incomparable work by a rapid and free sort of sketching, and all on the faith
of two pictures of the master which he had had the happiness to see at an exhibition in Broad
street. The immense influence of Fortuny upon the younger contemporary painters of Spain is
very apparent in the Exposition. MM. Rico, Simonetti, Domingo, Melida, Casanova vie with each
other in their imitation of his manner, but, excellent artists as they are, they are doing
so at the expense of originality. The qualities of Fortuny belonged to the nature and temperament
of this extraordinary artist, and are not to be acquired by any amount of labor or by any effort
of will.

My favorite corner at the Champ de Mars is here before the sparkling little canvases of the
Spanish master. But this prodigality of color will sometimes dazzle and fatigue the eye, and
turning from it one sees, framed by the heavy red curtains which enclose the Spanish gallery,
the immense canvas of the Austrian Hans Makart. This is the Entry of Charles V. into Antwerp.
The emperor is surrounded by nearly nude women, who in the midst of horsemen and men-at-arms
are offering him flowers and wreaths. These figures, with those of ladies upon balconies gay
with flags, and the vast architecture, fill this enormous canvas, which is much larger than
even the Catharine Cornaro with which the Philadelphia Exhibition made Americans familiar.
The nudity of the women mingled with clothed personages in the streets of a city of the sixteenth
century has naturally called forth much adverse criticism, and people have fancied that they
saw in it an unworthy attempt to achieve a popular success by means of the scandal; but M.
Makart replies that he has respected the truth of history if we are not to disbelieve a contemporary
letter of Albert Dürer to Melanchthon. Be this as it may, this great effort receives the applause
of the public, notwithstanding the monotonous amber tint which pervades this picture as it
did the Catharine Cornaro. Another Austrian, the historical painter Matejko, has received a
medal of honor for pictures full of energy, truth and character, though marred by that unaccountable
scattering of the light which is a peculiar eccentricity of Austrian painters.

  L. LEJEUNE.

DESERTED.

"Isn't it a perfectly beautiful night?" he exclaimed with a fine gush of enthusiasm. I wouldn't
have had it happen for anything. And when you were under my charge too! Do hand me my salts."

  EDWARD BELLAMY.

RAMBLING TALK ABOUT THE NEGRO.

What guides the bee when, turning from the "suck," he wheels in air and strikes his wonderful
line for the "gum"? Heaven knows. And by what process does the negro calculate the shortest
distance between the point he occupies and the place he would be? That also is a mystery, yet
the least observant person familiar with the negro cannot have failed to note his wonderful--we
had almost said his preternatural--power to discover, without guide or compass, the shortest
possible distance between two given places--to make, as he calls it, a "near cut."

To the right of us lay a berry and wild-fruit tract, on our left was a large village, and our
farm was in a certain portion skirted by an old field, through which the negroes had discovered
the most direct path to market. At dawn they could be seen winding around the brow of the hill,
men, women and children, with baskets on their heads and buckets on their arms, singly and
in couples, sometimes three, four or a half dozen together. And how they stole from us! It
seemed impossible to prevent, or even limit, their depredations.

One evening Mr. Smith said to me, "The man Tony is sentenced to be hung."

Tony was a village negro accused of murder, and as he had been confined in the village jail
and tried at the village court-house, the case naturally created some excitement in our quiet
neighborhood.

"Oh, I am so sorry!" I exclaimed.

"Yes, poor devil!" said Mr. Smith. "But it was a clear case. He belonged to Mr. Lamkin before
the surrender, and the old man made every effort to get him off--employed the very best counsel.
I am sorry for him, but the wind which is so ill for him will blow us good. He is to be hung
in the old field that edges our farm, and after the execution takes place we shall have no
more negro trespassers in that quarter. I very much doubt whether I shall be able to obtain
hands to work that portion of the land."

It would require a psychological study of the negro character to enable one to explain the
spirit in which they flocked to the execution of their comrade, their friend, in some instances
their kinsman. They came in holiday attire and with hurrying steps, and long before the hour
appointed the adjoining fence was crowded with eager spectators, and, like flocks of blackbirds,
they had filled every tree within five hundred yards, chatting and bustling and moving around
with no apparent emotion except the desire to see.

At length the cart appeared on the brow of the hill, and every neck was craned for a glimpse
of the poor creature who sat on the coffin--a pitiful-looking, half-dwarf mulatto, who gave
you the idea of deformity and distress without your being able to tell why. He walked bravely
to his place on the scaffold, singing and praying, protesting his innocence and bequeathing
forgiveness to his enemies, apparently full of faith, like many others who by reason of weariness
and despair have attained resignation; but the fictitious piety born of nervous excitement,
and the abnormal elevation of feeling induced by continued spiritual exhortation during weeks
of unrest and suspense, both gave way when his old mother, unsightly and pitiful as himself,
asked leave to bid him good-bye, and came tottering to his side, saying as well as she could
for the tears that choked her, "Oh, Tony! mammy ain't gwine back on you! Mammy don't b'lieve
you done it, she don't keer who 'kuses you. Good-bye, my baby! good-bye! 'Twon't be long 'fo'
mammy jines you an' daddy whar dar ain't no onjestice an' no mizry. Mammy ain't gwine to stay
here long arter you goes."

He threw up his arms with a wild, sobbing cry: "Oh, mammy! mammy! can't you do nothin' fer
me? Ain't you got no way to he'p me? Oh, de sun do shine so pretty, an' de leaves shakes 'bout
on de trees so natchul! An' I nuvver knowed de birds to sing like dey does to-day. It ain't
fa'r--no, it's not fa'r to shet me up in de groun' for what I ain't done. So many 'ginst one,
an' me so little an' so po'! I ain't got a fren' on top o' de yuth. Nary one outen all dese
folks, what I use ter go to shuckin's wid 'em, an' play de banjer, an' hunt possums--nary one
uv 'em didn't stand up for me an' try to git me off! Not eben you, mammy, didn't try to git
in jail an' gimme somethin' to wu'k my way out, an' I a-lis'nin' night an' day! Night an' day,
an' you nuvver come!"

"Lord! Lord! my baby!" sobbed the poor old thing, her trembling limbs hardly able to sustain
the feeble frame. "What could yo' ole mammy do 'ginst all dem folks? Ef Mars' Henry couldn't
make 'em let you 'lone, what could a po' ole nigger do what ain't got no money, an' no sense,
an' no fren's? Lord! Lord! my blessed chile!" she sobbed, the tears raining down her withered
black cheeks, "ef mammy had a hundred nakes she would put dat rope 'roun' 'em all to keep it
off o' your'n."

That was true, poor soul! but could avail nothing, and the appointed sentence was carried into
execution. The soul of the boy returned to its Creator and its Judge, and the old mother was
taken to her cabin almost as lifeless as the body that swung in the air half a mile away.

If the fact that they flocked to the place of execution cannot be ascribed to any idiosyncrasy
of the negro race, it was curious to see how they were afterward overwhelmed with superstitious
fear. We had no more trouble about the melons and grapes. The negroes found another route to
the village market, and the little well-worn path became overgrown with grass and ox-eyed daisies,
like the rest of the old field. Even after the body had been buried far off and the scaffold
removed, in broad daylight they shunned the place, but at dusk or after dark neither bribery
nor persuasion could have induced one of them to go near it. Mr. Smith tried some of them.

"But what the d----l are you afraid of?" he asked impatiently.

"I dunno, sir," returned one of the men doggedly. "All I does know is, I ain't gwine (no disrespek,
sir). But when a man is took off dat onnateral kind o' way, de sperrit is always hangin' 'roun',
tryin' to git back whar it come from."

"But Tony is buried a mile away."

"I can't help dat, sir. De sperrit were let out in de ole field, an' maybe it don't know whar
to find the pusson it 'longs to. Anyhow, ef it come back dar lookin' for Tony, I gwine take
good keer it don't find me!"

An amusing eccentricity of feeling, certainly a very nice distinction, was shown during slave
times by a woman belonging to a friend of ours. Some disturbance had taken place on the premises
of a neighbor, Mr. H----, who, being a severe old man, forthwith forbade that any negro should
again visit his place. This result was very dispiriting to Judy, the slave above referred to,
for she had a cousin belonging to Mr. H---- to whom she was in the habit of paying frequent
visits, and for whom she felt undoubtedly very great affection; and as time passed and Mr.
H---- continued implacable, her indignation grew and her wrath waxed exceeding strong. It came
to pass that the cousin one night fared over-sumptuously on cold cabbage and beans, and when
the mists of dawn had fled she too had left to join her friends over Jordan.

Presently a messenger came from Mr. H----: "Would Mrs. S---- be so kind as to allow Judy to
come over and prepare the body for burial?"--that being one of Judy's specialties.

The family was at table when the message was delivered, and Judy was serving cakes and muffins,
with short parentheses sacred to the memory of her cousin. Mrs. S---- had respected her affliction
and given her permission to retire, but Judy continued to return with more cakes and more muffins,
and, as soon as they were handed, to retire to a corner with her apron at her eyes, even after
Mr. H----'s message had been delivered and she had been told to go. During one of her temporary
absences Mr. S---- asked his wife, "Why don't you tell her to go, if she is going? It seems
nobody can be 'laid out' without Judy, but any of the rest can wait at table."

"But this is her cousin, and she may not wish to perform so trying a service; so I will leave
it to her.--Judy, if you prefer not going to Mr. H----'s just at present, I will send word
that I cannot spare you."

Judy threw her apron over her head with a vari-toned cry issued in the keys of grief, anger
and scorn. Then she stiffened her neck and rolled her eyes from side to side till the whites
glistened again. "Go dar, indeed!" she indignantly exclaimed. "Ef I couldn't go on de lot to
see my own dear cousin, I know I ain't gwine to dress up his dead nigger!"

The leading trait of the negro is his instability, his superficiality. It is superlative. His
emotions are as easily aroused and as evanescent as those of children, flowing in a noisy and
tumultuous current, but utterly without depth and volatile as ether. To this may in a measure
be attributed his lack of progress, but I doubt whether he be capable of any high order of
development without an infusion of Caucasian blood which will dissipate his simian type, improving
the shape of his retreating forehead, changing the contour of his heavy jaw, giving weight
and measurement to his now inferior and inactive brain. Since the surrender and the institution
of public schools, and the opportunities for improvement afforded him, we seem to have all
around us evidence of this utter instability of character. Never since the world began has
he had, and never will he have again, the incentives and aids to improvement which at that
time fell into his hands. There was, as one spur to ambition, the spirit of resentment which
he was supposed naturally to entertain at having been kept in servitude by even the kindest
of masters; but the negro is amiable and forgiving, and not only during but after the war conducted
himself with admirable good feeling and moderation. Granting, then, that he indulged no feeling
of resentment, there must have been, should have been, there was, a sentiment of rivalry with
the whites which was pardonable and proper to the most amiable and forgiving nature; and at
first the young negroes applied themselves with assiduity, and learned with an avidity which
delighted some classes, and was no doubt a discomfiting surprise to others. It was astonishing
to see the rapidity with which they mastered the alphabet of progress, and white mothers said
to their indolent or refractory children, "Are you not ashamed to see little negroes more studious
than yourself, making even greater progress according to their advantages, and in matters with
which you should be already familiar?"

As time went on even the indolent or refractory white boy to some extent improved, and seemed
conditionally sure of further improvement; but the negro, having arrived at a certain point--and
that usually no high one--seemed incapable of further progress, as a man, though not afflicted
with dimness of vision, is prevented by natural causes from seeing beyond the horizon. Doubtless
the spirit of rivalry already mentioned, born of defiance and resentment in a mild form, was
to some extent the incentive to application, and its brief duration serves to illustrate the
instability of which we speak. Doubtless, also, many others, by reason of poverty, which necessitated
manual labor, were unable to continue the pursuit of an education to any great advantage; but
what numbers of white children, by the losses of war placed on the same footing--placed identically
on the same footing, because they also and their parents were compelled to earn by labor their
daily bread--have yet continued to improve! The negro had the same privilege of night study
and (immediately after the war) as many teachers at his service as any white child. He had
also one advantage over the white: he had never learned the difference between meum and tuum,
and the silver lining to this cloud of ignorance lay in the fact that he was thereby enabled
more speedily to increase his store of worldly goods, thus leaving time for greater devotion
to the particular of mental development.

But take the minority of instances, where every advantage has been given him; where, freed
from the relations of master and slave, he has been thrown with whites and the spirit of emulation
naturally excited; where his parents have made every sacrifice necessary to procure him tutors
(numbers of them had private teachers, and very competent ones too, just after the war) and
books and all the paraphernalia of learning, and even the best social position possible to
him in the section where he happened to be, themselves retreating into the background with
the pathetic humility and self-abnegation of parents who believe and desire their offspring
to be of a higher order than themselves,--does the highest culture of which he seems capable
make him more than the peer of the mediocre white? I and hundreds of others have read with
pleasure the speech of Rev. William D. Johnson, A.M., colored delegate to the Methodist Episcopal
Conference which some months ago met in Georgia. It was a good speech for a colored man--a
capitally, wonderfully good speech--and I applaud it with cordial pleasure and reciprocation
of the good feeling which pervades it; but is it more than the address of the average white?
As the address of any one of the white members would it have been reported, or have attracted
attention, save for its animus?

There are exceptional cases among the negroes as among the whites; but because we have a Cuvier,
a Webster, a Dupuytren, are we prepared to assert as a general fact that the brain of the white
man weighs sixty-four ounces? And I speak of the negroes as a class. I refer to the negro of
the South, not to the barbarian of Africa, who really exists, nor to the negro of the Northern
mind, who is only "founded on fact." I refer to the negro as he is in our day and generation,
not as he will or may be after centuries of revolution in his circumstances which will produce
Heaven knows what changes in his mental, moral and physical nature. Many believe that these
negroes, whom and whose children we have civilized, having with their freedom received ideas
of social equality and personal ambition which except in isolated cases can never be realized
on this continent, will gradually return, as in South Carolina they are now doing, to their
original land, and thus eventually civilize their own race. Were they to return in a body,
they would all probably relapse into barbarism, but if a clear stream be kept running, though
the pool through which it flow be stagnant, it will in time become pure. And there is material
in this country for a pretty continuous flow.

I do not say that the negro is incapable of progress, but his mental horizon is very limited,
and seems bounded by natural causes as immovable (except by aid of foreign blood, which having
he ceases to be a genuine negro) as the chains of mountains which in some localities limit
the horizon in material Nature; and that as a people they will become the peer of the white
race is simply impossible, for if progress be a law of Nature, it will be obeyed by the white
man also, and he is already centuries ahead of the black, with advantages of every possible
nature. Also, that they should now be competent to fill the offices many of them occupy is
a pure absurdity, as demonstrated all around us--at the polls, in the jury-box, in the chair
of the magistrate. A very cruel absurdity it has sometimes proved.

But speaking of their mercurial nature: I was once spending the summer at a village in the
mountains, and not far from my chamber-window were three or four cabins occupied by very cleanly,
orderly negroes, who had hitherto been a source of no annoyance, for I am very fond of negroes
and like to have them about me. These cabins were situated near the mouth of a deep ravine
heavily wooded and producing echoes of beautiful distinctness. One evening negroes began to
assemble in and around the largest cabin, and there was evidently to be a meeting of some very
mournful--or at any rate solemn--character, for they came quietly, shook hands silently, and
crept into their places with a stealthy gliding motion. It was a weird, uncanny scene. The
moon rose slowly behind the great black mountains, and cast its rays upon the tree-tops and
shimmered its light on the whitewashed cabins, and only half revealed the dark figures that
glided like spectres in and out; but nothing could pierce the depths of that black ravine,
and it was easy to believe it the abode of spirits blest or otherwise--especially otherwise.
There was a long, oppressive silence: then they began to sing. What remarkable voices they
have, especially the men--so full, so rich, so deep and sonorous! If the mental development
of the negro is to involve change in his physical conformation, it is to be hoped it will not
interfere with his chest and lungs, nor with that wonderful cavern in the back of his mouth
and at the base of the nose. Some should be kept barbarians that they may continue to be vocal
instruments. No one who has heard him only as a "minstrel" can have any conception of the exquisite
mournfulness, the agonizing pathos, which the negro voice is capable of expressing; nor, we
may fairly add, of the wild, devil-may-care jollity; but this last is more truly represented
on the stage, the invariable adjuncts of caricature not only contributing to stimulate the
comedian, but broadening the effect of his voice on the hearer. Why is it that we always have
caricature in negro delineations--that we never have any simple representations of the reality
or any touches of unalloyed pathos? In all Nature there is nothing more pathetic than a pitiful
negro. You may paint the negro's lips and roach his hair, and even exaggerate the peculiarities
of his feet, but I can pick you up one, out on the suburbs or down in the alleys, who has become
old and feeble and cannot work any more, whose old master is dead and whose children have kicked
him out, who steals and struggles and starves in ignorant terror of the poorhouse; and for
yours people will raise their opera-glasses to their eyes--for mine, their handkerchiefs.

But to return. Oh how inexpressibly mournful were their chants that night! I remember one especially.
It began with a wailing recitative--a prolonged, mournful recitative in the minor key by female
voices only, and at its close the men joined them in a full, deep chorus, slow and solemn,
the last words of which were "Dead and gone!" The black ravine took up the sound, and from
its deep, mysterious heart came back the solemn echo, "Dead and gone!" It was simply horrible.
I never felt so homesick in my life; and as the mournful chant rolled toward the mountain,
and then came floating back again like a corpse upon the ebbing tide, I leaned my head upon
the window-sill and cried heartily. One by one my friends died and were buried, my children
became orphans, and, by a curious freak of circumstances, their father and I were left to a
childless old age. All possible accidents were put in requisition, all manner of possible misfortunes
called upon to contribute their quota of woe. Then I fell to wondering how people could like
to sing mournful things and make themselves and other people miserable; and that made me think
of what negroes liked, and that naturally led to watermelons; so I dried my eyes and summoned
my maid: "Betty, what is it they are singing about? Is anybody dead?"

"It's de las' en' of a funerul, I b'lieve, m'm--somebody whar dey didn't git done preachin'
over him, 'count of a storm."

"Betty, the singing does make me feel so badly. Just step over and say I will send them a barrel
of watermelons and cantaloupes, and those Mrs. Brown sent me too, if they will get up a dance
or make any kind of cheerful noise. There is a tambourine among the children's toys: you can
beat it as you go."

Betty laughed, and went over. There was a pause in the singing: then I heard a man's voice:
"Go 'way wid dat fool talk! Whar she gwine git watermillions an' mushmillions by de bar'l,
an' dey ain't more'n fa'rly ripe?"

"Mr. Smith sent 'em from de city," simpered Betty, who liked to put on airs with the country-folk;
"an' Mrs. Brown, of your nabority, reposed her some to-day."

"Dat's so 'bout dem from town, 'cos I helped to tote 'em up to de house," said another.

"Huk kum she ain't et 'em?"

"The baby conwulshed, an' Mrs. Smith's mind disbegaged of de melons," replied Betty.

"Huk kum he sen' so many?" asked the first speaker, who appeared to be business-manager, and
duly afraid of being swindled--fervid in fair speech, and correspondingly suspicious. "His
wife mus' be a mons'ous hearty 'ooman!"

"He knowed she were goin' to resperse 'em to her village fren's too, of course. Which we all
know dere ain't no place where you carn't" (Betty was from Cumberland county, and pronounced
the a broad, to the envious disgust of the Rockbridge darkies) "git fruit like you carn't git
it in the country. It is always five miles off, an' de han's is busy, or de creek is riz an'
you carn't cross it."

"Come now, town-nigger, we don't want none o' yo' slack-jaw; an' ain't gwine take it, nudder!"

"Mos' incertny not," sang out a high-pitched female voice from some unseen point.

"Comin' here wid yo' half-white talk an' half-nigger!"

"But who'll git up de fus' larf?" inquired the metropolitan, suavely waiving personal discussion.

"Yo' git de 'millions, an' de laf's boun' ter foller. Don't be skeered 'bout de laf."

And his veracity proved unimpeachable, for as the melons were distributed the air became vocal
with rude wit and noisy laughter, and the deep ravine gave back loud "yah-yahs" which sounded
truly demoniac in the darkness, and were no doubt the reproachful, sneering laughter of the
late lamented, whose obsequies were for the second time abbreviated--the resentful, mocking
laughter of him who was "dead and gone."

But the negro, as said before, has one advantage over his impecunious white brother--a genius
for theft. The white man may not have, as a general thing, sterner principle or a softer conscience,
but it cannot be said, except in isolated cases, that he has a passion for stealing. The Chinaman
is regarded by severe moralists as somewhat lax in the matter of honesty, and indeed, to be
candid, he has been accused of cultivating theft as one of the fine arts; but even he has the
grace to be, or to affect to be, ashamed of it, and indignantly resentful at being suspected
of the immorality. The negro, on the other hand, is only terribly afraid of being punished,
and on being forgiven feels immediately purified and free from sin. He has, in fact, no moral
principle, and his code of honesty is comprised in a conversation I overheard this winter.
Our youngest child seemed to have a vague, indefinite fear of rogues, and a very imperfect
idea of what a rogue might be, and was always asking questions on the subject. One morning,
while his nurse was dressing him, I heard him inquire, "How big is a rogue, Betty? Can he hear
a mile?"

Before she could reply, his brother, very little older, rose to explain: "Why, Bob, you've
seen a many a rogue. A rogue is thes' a man. Papa an' Uncle Bob looks ezactly like other rogues."

"Is papa an' Unker Bob rogues?" asked the youngest with innocent wonder.

"No, chile--dat dey ain't!" said Betty as she filled his eyes with soap. "Yo' papa an' yo'
uncle Borb is jes' as ornes' as anybody, 'cos rogues is folks what steals an' gits cotch!"

  JENNIE WOODVILLE.

THE AFTER-DINNER SPEECH OF THE BARONESS CONTALETTO.

In one of the most salubrious sections of Alaska there exists--or did exist in December, 1876--a
society named "The Irreparables." It was composed of women only. For this there were several
reasons. The subjects discussed were not supposed to interest men, but this might have been
remedied had not the men, already in a minority in the village, absolutely refused to have
anything to do with a society in which they were sure to be voted down without any very promising
power of appeal. It was at one time suggested that they could become associate members, but
the notary, upon examining their prospective position in the club, declared that their taxes
would be so many and their rights so few that it was an offer not to be considered. So the
matter was dropped, and an "Irreparable" was always a creature of the gentler sex.

The most important event in the year to this society was its annual meeting and festive celebration
in December. Upon this occasion the members reviewed their accounts, perhaps voted in a new
member, acted upon delinquents, and, in a word, settled up the business of the year. The festivities
sometimes took the shape of a mothers' meeting, a quilting-party or a cozy little tea. In 1876
they were, however, affected by the excitement that prevailed throughout the whole United States,
and which fairly reached them in December. Alaska, it was true, was not one of the thirteen
colonies, but neither was Ohio nor Colorado. It was much larger than Rhode Island or Delaware.
It had great possibilities, and it had cost money, which was more than could be said of the
original thirteen, leaving out Pennsylvania, which even then could not be counted as a very
expensive investment on the part of Mr. Penn. These patriotic reasons fired the hearts of the
"Irreparables," and they determined that Alaska should celebrate the Centennial of their country,
and that the celebration should be theirs.

Then the question arose of what nature this celebration should be. An Exposition was clearly
out of the question, and even a school-fair was voted troublesome. Some of the younger members
favored a dance, but this was objected to, because of the absurdity of a roomful of women waltzing
and treading the light, fantastic German by themselves. It would seem, said the Baroness Contaletto,
like a burlesque of merriment; and so the dance fell through. A service of song, a tea-drum,
a cream-cornet, and a pound-party met the same fate; and finally all minds gently but firmly
centred upon a dinner-party; and so it was a dinner with courses.

Naturally enough, it was not at first easy to arrange, but the admirable spirit of organization
pervading the society soon brought everything into shape. There was a committee upon the bill
of fare, upon the toasts, upon invitations, upon the room and upon the general arrangements.
It was true that the only room in the village that was suitable was the little hall back of
the tavern, and the invitations were verbally given at the meeting when the matter was decided
upon; but as one never knows what emergencies may arise, it is always well to have a committee
ready to act.

The chairwoman of most of the committees was the Baroness Contaletto. This was not because
of her rank, as, in fact, she had no claim to her title either from birthright or marriage.
Her claim rested upon the fine sense the village had of the fitness of things. She looked like
a baroness: she always made it a point to behave like one. In the course of time they called
her so, and when she added the name of Contaletto, the village acknowledged the fitness of
that, and very soon the Baroness Contaletto was universally accepted, and Thisba Lenowski forgotten.
The reason of her being so many chairwomen also rested on her fitness. She was a woman of ideas
and of deeds. The minister's plans might come to naught, the editor's predictions be falsified,
and the schoolmaster's reforms die out; but the enterprises undertaken by the baroness went
through to a swift success. Her ideas were both contagious and epidemic, and she was always
a known quantity in the place.

And so when she pooh-poohed the dance, laughed at the tea-drum and shivered at the idea of
the cream-cornet, declaring for the dinner, the matter was settled, and each of the younger
members promptly decided who she would ask to escort her and deliberated as to what she should
wear.

Then the baroness arose. She glanced around. She read the thoughts of the members. She looked
at two women. One was the sister of the county clerk: she was a woman of the most appreciative
character, the clearest sense, and--she was the faithful echo of the baroness. The second was
a pretty girl. She represented the other pretty girls. Then the baroness spoke. She said it
was of the first importance to do this thing decorously and in order. When men had suppers
they never invited women. They wanted to have a good time, and women spoiled it. She was not
in favor of an "invitation entertainment." She supposed that what they wanted was a society,
an "Irreparable," dinner. Therefore, she did not propose to invite men.

"But," said the pretty girl, with a rosy color mounting to her cheeks and an ominous flash
in her eyes, "when I was in New Moscow I was invited to the Hercules dinner."

"To the table?" asked the baroness.

"Well--no," replied the pretty girl.

"Did you get anything to eat?" pursued the baroness.

"Oh no," answered the victim, as if this was something preposterous--"of course I didn't. We
did not expect anything. But I had a splendid seat, and I heard all the toasts and everything."

"That was very nice," answered the baroness, grimly; "but I think we can do quite as well.
We will invite the gentlemen to the gallery--fortunately, there is one--we will have toasts,
and we will be very entertaining."

Of course the baroness had her way. Here, at once, was an advantage in the absence of associate
members. Rosy cheeks and pretty eyes now counted in the society for nothing, and when the sister
of the county clerk promptly moved that no gentleman be invited to the floor, the sexton's
wife seconded the motion. It was carried, and on the night appointed the "Irreparables" had
their dinner, and up in the gallery sat the minister, the sheriff, the county clerk, the editor
of the Snow-Drift, the head-teacher and a dozen other gentlemen, all in strict evening--if
still Alaskian--toilettes. At first it was funny. Then it wasn't funny. It became tiresome,
and the sheriff went away. His boots creaked, the ladies looked up, and then not a married
man but smiled delightedly and settled himself in his seat.

They paid much attention to the wine. It had been bought in New Moscow of the Hercules Club,
and was of course all right. Yet it was over the wine that the county clerk grew restless.
It was not that he wished for it particularly, but when the "Irreparables" drank champagne
with their soup, sauterne with the meat, ate their nuts and made their toasts with sherry,
his patience was put to a severe test. It was something to see that most of the glasses went
away almost untasted, but the head-teacher found it best to keep a steady eye upon him and
save him from doing more than mutter his opinions.

But when the toasts came the gallery visibly brightened up. The "Irreparables" toasted the
country and its resources, the United States, Mrs. Seward, the Centennial, Mrs. Grant, and
the widow the chief alderman was to marry. They drank to Queen Victoria, and, with a remembrance
of past loyalty, to the czarina. To each toast a member responded in terms fitting and witty,
and when the pretty girl arose and, with a glance at the gallery, gave "The gentlemen--God
bless them!" the baroness stood up and made reply. She thanked the company in the name of the
gentlemen. She spoke of them in high and eloquent terms. She alluded to their usefulness, their
courage, their good looks. She did them full justice as resources in times of trouble, of war
and of midnight burglaries.

The county clerk ran his fingers through his hair, the color came into the cheeks of the clergyman,
and a subdued murmur as of pleasure ran through the little group in the gallery.

Then the baroness continued. She said she was not a woman-suffragist--at least she wasn't sure
that she was. She had, she thanked her stars, her own opinion upon most matters, but while
she had no positive objection to right-minded women having any real or fancied wrongs redressed,
and in their own way, she had not yet thought clearly enough upon the subject to be sure that
the ballot was the remedy. She knew there was a great deal of nonsense talked about the moral
influence women would exert in politics: perhaps they would, but to her it seemed very much
like watering potato-blossoms to get rid of the worms at the root.

Here the county clerk half rose, but the head-teacher held him with his disciplining eye, and
he sat down again.

What was needed, said the baroness, was not mending, regenerating, giving freedom or doing
justice. These things were all very good, but more was necessary. "There is no remedy," she
said with rising inflections and with emphasis--"no remedy but a total change. What we want
is not an extension of the suffrage, but a limitation!"

She wished it, however, distinctly understood that she in no way meant to affirm that woman
was man's superior: she did not think so. In his own place man could not be surpassed. The
sciences, the arts, the industrial pursuits, religion, civilization, all owed a deep debt to
man, and it could not be ignored. She was the last person in the world to wish to ignore it.
Properly governed, disciplined and educated, his development might outrun hope, defy prophecy.
Out of his place he was a comet without an orbit. Drawn hither and thither by sinister stars,
he was an eccentricity beyond calculation and full of harm. For this reason the interests of
humanity demanded that the place of man in the conduct of affairs should be well defined and
limited. It was well to look this matter in the face.

"Now," proceeded the baroness, "I leave it to any class of men, to any one man, to declare
whether the world is, or ever has been, well governed. Is there any age, any country upon record,
where justice has reigned, where the interests of every class have been consulted, and where
the people have lived together in mutual esteem, in unity and in prosperity? If we look through
the world to-day, we find but one country that is governed in anything like a satisfactory
manner. It is loved by some classes of its people, and admired by very many foreigners. When
we reflect that it is governed by a queen, and that history tells us that its most prosperous
period in the past was under Queen Elizabeth, it is certainly safe to assume--No, no, my friends,"
she said, hastily, "do not applaud. That is not my point. It is possible that women may govern
better than men, but that is yet to be tested. This illustration proves but one thing--that
a country is better for not being governed by a man."

Her point was this: she did not appear as an advocate of suffrage for women, but as an earnest
petitioner against its being any longer held by men. The one thing a man could not do was--to
govern! This was no assertion. It was a fact proved by all history. Since the beginning of
the world men had had the governing power in their hands, and what a mess they had always made
of it! There had never been a decent government. Oppression, rebellion, anarchy, war, bloodshed,
slavery and tyranny,--this was their record.

If women could do anything better, she was in favor of giving them the opportunity of proving
it, but it was not her purpose to propose the after-treatment. She was not a physician in charge,
but the surgeon for the moment.

She had made suggestions: she freely confessed it. She had, for instance, proposed to their
talented townsman, the editor of the Snow-Drift, a series of articles upon the existing Presidential
contest. As far as she could learn, there was a great lack of unanimity regarding the vote,
and it was not clear to the Hayes party that Tilden was elected. Now, she had suggested that
there were certain classes concerned but not consulted in the election, and to them she proposed
leaving the decision. The legal voters had blundered horribly in some way, and she would have
been in favor of allowing the Indians, the Chinese, the convicts, the idiots and the women
to decide the matter. It could not be made worse, and it might be made better.

But leaving all these questions of a past hour, she would put the axe where George Washington
did not put it--at the root of the tree--near enough also, she would remark, to leave no stump,
and so at once place politics upon a new basis by taking the governing power away from the
gentlemen, God bless them!

  LOUISE STOCKTON.

MUSIC IN AMERICA

England and America have long been classed among the unmusical countries of the world, and
for good reasons. Their history so far records the names of no composers of a high rank; and
although in both countries there are plenty of amateurs and minor musicians who fully appreciate
the best there is in the art, yet the people as a whole are not influenced by it in the same
way as the Germans and the Italians, to whose hungry souls music is as necessary as is oxygen
to their lungs. If we adopt the good old-fashioned classification of instrumental and vocal
pieces into "music for the feet," or dance music, "music for the ear," or drawing-room music,
"and music for the head and heart," or classical music, we are forced to admit that so far
only the first of these classes has found general favor with our masses. Waltzes, quick-steps,
galops, quadrilles, are the daily food of our people, and there are thousands of pianos scattered
throughout the country which are never used for any other purpose than to play this dance music,
which occupies about the same place in relation to the higher forms of music as dancing on
the stage does to artistic acting. Next comes the somewhat more elevated branch of drawing-room
or salon music, which in the cities and towns is very largely cultivated. It is typified by
the popular "Maiden's Prayer," and also includes the more sensational of the French and Italian
opera melodies with all their vocal pyrotechnics, as well as the pianoforte fantasias on these
same melodies--in short, all music written with a view to giving the performer an opportunity
of displaying facility of execution rather than genuine feeling.

It is only in our centres of culture, the largest of our cities, that sufficient interest is
taken in the highest products of musical genius to call into life and to support respectable
orchestras and choruses; and even in these centres of culture there is no excess of devotion,
as is perhaps best shown by the great rarity of amateur string quartettes, those most intellectual
and most enjoyable of all musical clubs, whose sphere is classical chamber music, the direct
opposite in most respects of the drawing-room music just spoken of. How different all this
is from the state of affairs in Germany, where every town of ten thousand inhabitants has its
well-managed opera-house and its various kinds of musical clubs for public and private amusement!
The difference may best be realized by reading Wagner's admirable little essay, Ueber Deutsches
Musikwesen, republished in the first volume of his collected works.

Perhaps there is no better way of arriving at a just estimate of the present state of general
musical culture in this country than by looking at what may be called the creative department,
and examining the vocal and instrumental sheet-music of native composers continually issued
in such large quantities by our publishers. Were we to follow an old maxim, that the best way
of judging the inner life of a nation is to listen to its music, and accordingly judge of the
sentiments and emotions of Americans by their sheet-music, we should arrive at very discouraging
results. The characteristics of our sheet-music, briefly summed up, are: (1) trite and vulgar
melody, devoid of all originality, repeating what has been heard a thousand times already;
(2) equally trite and monotonous accompaniments, the harmony limited to half a dozen elementary
chords, the rhythm mechanical and commonplace, and the cadences unchanging as the laws of Nature;
(3) insipid, sensational titles; (4) words usually so silly that a respectable country newspaper
would refuse to print them in its columns--true to the French bon-mot, that what is too stupid
to be spoken or read must be sung.

This may seem too sweeping a condemnation, but it is not. There are some honorable exceptions
of course, but only just enough of them to attract notice by the contrast, and thus to prove
the rule. If an aspiring young composer wishes to appear in print, the point to which he must
direct his attention is to secure, not a good original melody or a piquant accompaniment, but
a "catching" title, like "Timber-Thief Galop," "Silver Bill Polka," or "Sitting Bull March."
If his choice in this respect does not please the publisher, his manuscript may yet escape
the paper-basket if its title-page happens to be embellished with a grotesque cartoon or a
sentimental picture of a couple of lovers or cats who have met by moonlight alone. From these
external and all-essential attributes an experienced agent can form an accurate estimate of
how large the sale of a new piece will be; and he will tell you that so little does the excellence
of the music contribute to its success that in general the sale of compositions in this country
stands in inverse ratio to their merits.

The sheet-music nuisance seems to be a phenomenon peculiar to this country; for, although France,
England, Italy, and even Germany, annually produce much music which is not worth the printer's
ink, yet in comparison with ours it might almost be called classical. And the melancholy thing
about it is, that specimens of these flimsy productions may be seen lying about freely on the
pianos of people who would blush at the mere thought of having books of the same intellectual
and æsthetic level lying on their parlor-tables for general inspection and for the entertainment
of guests. For, while the corrupting influence of an impure story or a bad picture has long
since been recognized, it still seems to be imagined by many educated people that music being
the "divine art" any form of it must of course be desirable, and better than nothing at all.
This is the form of Philistinism which before all others must be combated ere we can hope to
materially purify our musical atmosphere. The error naturally arose from the great amount of
silly talk about music, which is usually represented as being incapable of lending itself to
the expression of any but the noblest sentiments and emotions. Quite the contrary. If good
music has all those wonderful powers which have been ascribed to it from time immemorial, it
follows necessarily that bad music must exert equal powers in an opposite direction. In fact,
bad music is even a more demoralizing agent than, for instance, a miserable newspaper. The
latter is once hastily read through and then thrown away, while a poor musical composition
is apt to be preserved in the parlor--perhaps, neatly bound with some others of like value,
is carefully studied, or even memorized, and repeatedly sung at evening parties; and in this
way it cannot but slowly vitiate the taste of performer and hearer alike, and make them deaf
to the beauties of better things.

If we turn from this aspect of music in America to our concert-halls, the prospect is much
brighter. In this department we have achieved more than in any other, and no one is now obliged
to go abroad in order to hear a good concert, as he is if he wishes to enjoy a respectable
operatic performance. How much of this is due to the energy of one man, Mr. Theodore Thomas,
everybody knows, and it is not too much to say that the "new departure" he is about to make
may be expected to mark an epoch in the history of American music. Cincinnati will henceforth
claim the position of musical metropolis, and whether its pre-eminence be conceded or a vigorous
rivalry maintained, the whole country must feel the good effect of that generous ambition which
has rescued a noble enterprise from an uncertain and fluctuating condition, and offered it
a secure haven.

Americans have already good reasons for being proud of their concerts, for except in Berlin
there are perhaps no audiences in Europe which have the advantage of us in this respect. This
can be seen by comparing our programmes with those offered in continental cities, as recorded
every week in the Neue Zeitschrift für Musik, published at Leipsic. I have repeatedly seen
paragraphs in leading German papers calling attention to Mr. Thomas's programmes, and hinting
that their own conductors might learn something from them. What is particularly noticeable
about them is their cosmopolitanism, and this has contributed much to their success. It has
been said, however, by some that Thomas's sole aim seems to be to offer as many novelties as
possible, and that he disregards artistic perspective in the arrangement of his programmes.
He has indeed never followed the illiberal principle that it is bad taste to perform the works
of living masters--a principle which has done much to bring to the brink of ruin a certain
association in Boston--but he has endeavored to do justice to all the composers from Bach to
Berlioz and Wagner. If Mr. Thomas makes an effort to introduce to his audience a new symphony
by Brahms or a new symphonic poem by Saint Säens immediately after its issue from the press,
we certainly ought to be very grateful to him for his enterprise. When a prominent author writes
a new book everybody is eager to get sight of it as soon as possible, and no one has any fault
to find with this curiosity. But when a similar eagerness is manifested to hear a new symphony,
the conservatives at once cry out, "For shame! Would you neglect the old masters for the sake
of pieces which the wear and tear of time have not yet proved to possess permanent value?"
The Messrs. Conservatives evidently do not perceive the ludicrous aspect of their position.
If their influence were not fortunately losing instead of gaining in strength, we might soon
look for the extinction of art through the infanticide of genius. Mr. Thomas is not a conservative,
and, thanks to this fact, we are often enabled to hear a new composition even before it has
been performed in all the German capitals.

Of the condition of our operatic affairs it is impossible to speak in the same terms of self-congratulation
as of our concerts, and will remain impossible as long as our opera troupes differ in no essential
respects--except in being less sure of their parts--from travelling bands of negro minstrels.
An orchestra may with impunity travel from one city to another: it always remains the same,
and only needs a good hall to appear to advantage. But an operatic performance is such a complicated
affair that excellence can only be attained after years of constant practice under the same
conditions and with the same materials, and without constant changes in the chorus, orchestra
and stage surroundings. European experience seems to show that without government assistance
good dramatic and operatic performances are not possible. In France and Germany, where such
assistance is given, the theatres are good: in England and America, where none is given, they
are bad. Perhaps in course of time our national or city governments will come to recognize
and support the theatre as an educational institution, or at least as a good means of suppressing
intemperance and other vices by supplying a harmless mode of amusement. There is little prospect,
however, that this will happen soon. It is more likely that some of our rich men will at last
come to see the folly of founding so many new colleges, and devote their money to other uses.
Had Mr. Samuel Wood left his money for the establishment of a permanent first-class opera instead
of a conservatory, he would have done a wiser thing. The importance of a good opera-house as
an institution for promoting musical culture is not yet generally understood--naturally enough,
considering the wretched performances we have so far been obliged to endure. The opera has
one great advantage over concerts: it is more attractive to the uninitiated. It appeals to
the eye as well as the ear. The scenic splendors will attract many unmusical and semi-musical
people who shun the purely intellectual atmosphere of a classical concert as a great bore;
and while they gaze at the wonders of the scenery they unconsciously drink in the music, so
that in course of time they learn to appreciate that for its own sake. When Lohengrin was first
performed in the German cities the masses attended it chiefly to see the new and brilliant
scenic effects. They found the music stupid, devoid of melody and form, and bristling with
"algebraic" harmonies. But they went so often to see the swan drawing the mysterious knight
through the waters of the Rhine that they finally learned that the opera is a rich storehouse
of the most exquisite melody, that a wonderful unity of forms pervades the whole, and that
the algebraic harmonies serve to express depths of emotion hitherto unknown. In the same way
the Vienna people have been lately crowding the theatre to see the Rhine-daughters in their
long blue robes swimming about under the surface of the river, to see the fight with the dragon,
the march of the gods over the rainbow, the ride of the walkyries on their wild steeds, the
burning Walhalla, etc., and have gradually discovered that their critics at Bayreuth again
hoaxed them when they wrote that the music of the Trilogy was "atomic," that it was devoid
of melody, and that the harmony was in defiance of all the laws of euphony.

These illustrations show the value of good scenery. Independently of its artistic value, it
is a legitimate bait for enticing people to a place where they are obliged to hear good music.
Good scenery, however, has never been the strong point of our opera troupes. They never had
more than one strong point. Formerly, some of the great prime donne used to pay us an occasional
visit, but now even they have learned to avoid us, because we are no longer willing to pay
five dollars for an evening's amusement. London, Paris and St. Petersburg are at present the
head-quarters of the costly "stars." Nor is this fact to be regretted. The decline of the star
system is rather to be greeted as the dawn of a better era. It has always been the curse of
the opera and the greatest obstacle to improvement. There was a time when the prima donna was
so omnipotent that even the composers were her slaves, being frequently obliged to alter passages
to suit the taste of the stage goddess; and there are instances on record of whole operas having
been composed in vain because she did not happen to be pleased with them, and refused to sing.
This evil period we have happily out-grown, but an equally great nuisance remains. The exorbitant
prices still demanded by the "stars" are out of all proportion to their deserts, and show that
even if the composers are their slaves no longer, the spectators and managers still are so.
In Paris and elsewhere it is often found impossible to do justice to the secondary stage appointments
because the salaries of the soprano and the tenor swallow the whole income. The Germans, on
the other hand, are too artistic and rational to endure such an imposition. To them the one-star-and-ten-satellites
system seems an abomination, and doubtless Emperor William had the sympathies and approval
of all his subjects when he refused to engage Patti at a price that would have proved disastrous
to the high aims of the imperial opera, which are to preserve an evenly-balanced and uniform
excellence of all the parts of a performance. There are signs that even England is outgrowing
the star system. Carl Rosa has adopted the German system of dispensing with "phenomenal" singers,
putting the minor rôles into good hands, and keeping a well-trained chorus and orchestra; and
his success, as everybody knows, has been enormous. Now let some competent manager in this
country follow his example: let him show that he does not merely aim at getting the people's
money, but that he has also the ambition of honestly interpreting the works of the masters
and developing a healthy taste for good dramatic music and acting, and there can be little
doubt that instead of increasing the number of failures now recorded, the enterprise would
prove a success, and show, as Carl Rosa's has done, that in this way opera can be made to pay
even without government assistance.

Although our rulers have not yet recognized the theatre as a possible source of culture, they
have done something which to the country at large is of even greater importance than this would
be. They have been gradually introducing vocal music as a regular branch of study in our public
schools. In this matter we seem to have anticipated England, for while singing was introduced
in the schools of Boston more than forty, and in Baltimore more than thirty, years ago, in
the British House of Commons only twenty-five years ago, when a member proposed that singing
should be taught in all schools, as in Germany, "the suggestion was received with ridicule,
and was deemed deserving of no other response than a loud laugh." But there has also been,
and still is, some opposition to its general introduction in this country. Only a few months
ago the St. Louis press urged its removal from the schools on the ground that it is one of
the "ornamental" studies, and that more time is in that city, for instance, devoted to it than
to the practical subjects of geography and arithmetic. This last objection has not much force.
All that is really practical and generally useful in geography and arithmetic can be learned
in a few years, whereas to make progress in the difficult art of music it is necessary to begin
early and continue for many years. The true answer to such an objection is, that there is no
need of neglecting either of these branches. There is time enough for all of them if only a
proper method of instruction be pursued. Still more untenable is the idea that music is merely
an ornamental study and of no practical value. This idea rests on the mistaken theory of education
which holds that only the intellect needs training. If our sole aim is to get something to
eat and to drink, and a house to shelter us from the weather, then we need only cultivate the
intellect so that we may be able to compete with others. But if we care for beautiful homes,
if we wish to enjoy life in a higher sense than that in which a savage enjoys it, and to make
ourselves and others happy, then the training of the emotions through music is as important
as the training of the intellect in a practical and not an "ornamental" sense.

Fortunately, none of the objections hitherto urged against singing in public schools have been
able to effect any change for the worse. Vocal music is now taught in the common schools of
nearly every city and large town in New England and the Northern and Western States. In Boston--which
has always been noted for its excellence in this department--thanks to the intelligent labors
of Mr. Lowell Mason and Mr. Julius Eichberg, it is now possible, on occasion, to raise a chorus
of five thousand well-trained juvenile voices. And it is gratifying to observe with what unanimity
the good influence of public-school singing is attested by the commissioners of all those States
which have given it a fair trial. The grounds on which it is usually commended are that it
puts life and variety into the dull routine of studies--that it promotes order and discipline,
stimulates the social feelings, electrifies the wearied nervous system, conduces to health
by the regular and vigorous exercise of the lungs, trains the moral sentiments by refining
the æsthetic emotions, and tends to improve the congregational singing in our churches. To
quote the language of the Commissioner of Education (Report for 1873): "Experience proves that
as music is perfected and used in the daily routine of school duties, just in that proportion
are the deportment and general appearance of the schools improved." Indeed, it is difficult
to calculate all the good results that in course of time must follow from general musical instruction
in our schools. It is certainly the only effective method of removing in a few generations
the reproach that we are not a musical people. In Germany--which perhaps has done more for
music than all other countries combined--the foundation for musical culture is laid in the
schools by the singing of folk-songs (Volkslieder) and chorals in three-or four-part harmony.
And those who have read the history of music know that these same folk-songs and chorals were
the first musical fruits grown on German soil: they were the fruits on which in past centuries
the people lived and formed their taste. It is evident, therefore, that in now teaching these
folk-songs and chorals to their children the Germans are guided by that important law of evolution
which shows that the development of the child partly does, and partly should be made to, conform
to the development of the race, step by step.

There is no reason why we should not follow this same principle. Of course it will not be necessary
to confine ourselves to German folk-songs, although these are on the whole the best. We are
a mixed people, compounded of all nationalities, and hence the folk-songs of Italy, France,
Scotland, Russia and various other countries should all be acclimated in our schools. There
is something peculiarly healthy and fresh about folk-songs which one only finds again in the
very highest efforts of individual creative genius. They are like flowers that have grown up
in virgin forests, nurtured by rain and sunshine, fanned by vigorous breezes and shielded from
all the hot-house influences of a morbid civilization. So rich and spontaneous are many of
these melodies that they can be thoroughly enjoyed even when sung without harmony or accompaniment,
while for advanced classes it is easy to write second and third vocal parts, thus adding to
their interest and value.

While early familiarity with the best of these songs would have a good effect in refining the
popular sense of melody, the appreciation of what came last and is highest in music--of harmonic
progressions--could best be taught by a similar familiarity with the German four-part chorals.
They are the very embodiment of vigorous, soul-stirring harmony, the basis of sacred, as the
Volkslied is of secular, music. "Each of our churches," says Thibaut, the author of the celebrated
little book on Purity in Musical Art, "had a period of the highest enthusiasm, which will never
return, and each of them has at this very period of the most ardent religious zeal done its
utmost for the development of its song." The German choral is the result of the intense devotional
feelings which existed among the early Protestant congregations, and it is evident that a wholesome
religious spirit could with it be introduced in our schools in a manner which could be objectionable
to no denomination. In course of time these chorals might then be transferred to our churches,
where they might well take the place of the easier but very eccentric melodies and incorrect
harmonies now too often heard there.

  HENRY T. FINCK.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

A SUCCESSFUL ENTERPRISE.

In one of the side streets of a city which fronts on Long Island Sound is to be found a curiosity-shop
whose show-window challenges the attention of all lovers of the quaint and queer by its jumble
of cracked and ancient porcelain, old-fashioned brasses and small articles of more or less
valuable bric-à-brac. Inside, the three small rooms are crowded with sets of delft and willow
china, old candlesticks, clocks, andirons, fenders, high-backed chairs and the like. The whole
aspect of the place is shabby and dingy, and the antique furniture has no chance of showing
either its worth or its dignity amid such surroundings; yet the traffic which goes on in this
"curiosity-shop" has already brought a respectable fortune to the owner, and promises, if the
rage for revivals of ancient fashions continues, to make him a capitalist. Knapp, as we will
call this dealer in second-hand furniture and bric-à-brac, began his trade some five or six
years ago. He was originally a tin-peddler, travelling up and down the country with his wagon,
offering tin and glass ware in return for rags, feathers and old metals. Knapp probably had,
to start with, a touch of that original genius which transmutes the most ordinary conditions
of life into means of personal aggrandizement. He laid the stepping-stone to his fortune when
it one day occurred to him to accept a piece of old-fashioned Wedgwood ware in return for half
a dozen shining tins. It was an inspiration which he considered half a weakness, but he yielded
to it, and afterward had cause to congratulate himself when he found an opportunity for disposing
of the cup at a remunerative rate. This gave him an impulse of curiosity toward any heirlooms
in the way of china and pottery to be found among the farmers' wives in the section of New
England he traversed; and his activities soon had their reward. At that date the passion for
ceramics was but just beginning to invade our cities, and not a suspicion of it stirred the
minds of the good women who artlessly opened their cupboards and displayed their treasures
of Worcester china and willow-ware to the ingratiating Knapp. No man in the world was ever
better calculated to drive good bargains for himself, yet leave an impression on his victim's
mind that the peddler's interest in a "sort of china which matched a set his grandmother used
to have" was running away with his better judgment.

Knapp became shortly a most interesting personage to people who were making collections, and
he attained, besides ingenuity, genuine taste and skill in detecting marks and discerning values.
In a year he had as nice a knowledge of china and pottery as any one in the country, and if
the farmers' wives were so much the poorer by the loss of what had been in the family for generations,
they did not recognize their loss.

However, it was by old clocks and brass andirons and fenders that Knapp made his fortune. A
gentleman asked him to procure him some old-fashioned articles of this sort, and the peddler
at once went into the matter on speculation, and bought up all the old brasses he could find
within a radius of fifty miles. These fenders and andirons were gladly parted with, growing
rusty as they had been for years, and almost forgotten in garrets and cellars. New England
farmers remember too distinctly the shiverings and burnings of their youth not to feel an insurmountable
prejudice against open fires. So Knapp, whose wider knowledge made him master of the fact that
this present generation, sickened of stoves and dreary black holes in the wall and burnt dead
heat, and longing for some cheerful household centre, were restoring the old fireplaces and
open fires, where the flames could leap and roar, and the logs burn and glow and smoulder,--Knapp,
I say, humored this fancy by opening his shop and offering his old-fashioned fenders and andirons
to the public. He had bought them at a mere song, and sold them again at a price so reasonable
that any purchaser might be suited, yet still at a profit of five hundred to a thousand per cent.

Once started as a regular dealer, he went steadily on: his activity was incessant, and always
productive. His energies seemed to have been shaped by an unerring and divining instinct. He
found old sideboards, chests, wardrobes, brought from England two centuries ago, dropping to
pieces in barns and cellars. He found an "almost priceless Elizabethan cabinet" serving as
a hen-house in a farmer's barnyard, and another in a little better condition used as a receptacle
for pies in his cellar. He bought them both for five dollars, had them "restored," and sold
one for eight hundred and the other for five hundred dollars. It is true that this process
of "restoration" was an expensive one, and in his next venture of the sort he demanded higher
prices without offering articles so valuable or so unique. At present he is engaged in refurnishing
a North River mansion of colonial times with suitable furniture and decorations, and will be
handsomely rewarded for his pains. But he is too well known now to find rare and curious articles
as freely parted with as they were a few years ago. Still, the hard times help him. Then, too,
in New England old families are constantly passing away, and leaving what small possessions
belonged to the last surviving maiden of the race to far-away relations. These possessions,
consisting of good solid old furniture, are certain to become Knapp's if he finds anything
desirable among them. He has been known to go to a house within twelve hours of the death of
the last surviving member of the family, and offer to negotiate with a servant or friend of
the deceased for a chair, table, clock or sideboard he coveted. I doubt if an auction of old
furniture has occurred for four years within one hundred miles of him where he has not been
the first and the most privileged buyer.

  L.W.

SMALL-WAISTED WOMEN.

If the truth be fairly stated, women have many excuses for their infatuation regarding small
waists. It is Mrs. Haweis who says, "The reason why a small waist is a beauty is because, when
it is natural, it goes together with the peculiar litheness and activity of a slenderly-built
figure. All the bones are small, the shoulders and arms petite, and the general look is dainty
and youthful." In other words, a small waist is only a beauty when it is in proportion to the
rest of the figure. The common mistake lies in considering it a beauty in a large woman of
massive proportions. A few centuries ago women did not take a scientific view of things, and
fell into delusions which in this age are a disgrace to the sex. They knew nothing of anatomy,
of the law of proportion or of the curve of beauty, and they misunderstood the language of
admiration. The latter I suspect to be at the root of the whole matter. Poets were, as we shall
presently see, everlastingly praising small waists, and women fell into the error of supposing
that a small waist was, in the abstract, a beauty and an attraction. When or where the mistake
originated I cannot tell, but here are the words of praise of probably a fourteenth-century
lover: "Middel heo hath menskful smal," or, "She hath a graceful small waist." At a later day
Master Wither included in the attractions of her who had left him,

          Her wast exceeding small,
            The fives did fit her shoo;
          But now, alasse! sh'as left me.

This suits exactly the modern view of a small waist and a No. 5 shoe.

In the well-known Scotch ballad "Edom o' Gordon" the Lady Rodes is represented as being shut
up by Gordon in her burning castle. The smoke was suffocating when,

          Oh than bespaik her dochter dear:
          She was baith jimp and sma', etc.

Here it might be said that the evident youth of the girl, who was dropped over the wall and
fell on the point of the cruel Gordon's spear, accounts for her being "jimp and sma'." The
explanation will not apply to "The Cruel Sister," as given by Sir Walter Scott:

          She took her by the middle sma',
            Binnorie, O Binnorie!

So fascinated was the rhymer by that special feature of her beauty that he returns to it after
recounting how the elder sister drowned the younger:

          You could not see her middle sma',
            Binnorie, O Binnorie!
          Her gouden girdle was so bra,
            By the bonny milldams of Binnorie.

Another instance is in the opening verse of Sir Walter Scott's version of "The Lass of Lochroyan:"

          Oh wha will shoe my bonny foot?
            And wha will glove my hand?
          And wha will lace my middle jimp
            Wi' a lang, lang linen band?

The last line appears to indicate the use of a linen band, as the Roman ladies used the strophium,
a broad ribbon tied round the breast as a support. From this it may be inferred that the "Lass
of Lochroyan" did not owe her "middle jimp" to any very deadly artificial means of compression.

One of the most remarkable instances that can be adduced is in the original version of "Annie
Laurie," by William Douglas, a Scottish poet of the seventeenth century. How are they to know
that the "jimp middle" of the ballads was in its jimpness in proportion to the shoulders? The
trouble is, that the early rhymesters have used up the only side of the question capable of
poetical treatment. One cannot sing of the reverse: no poet could seriously lift up his voice
in praise of her "ample waist" or "graceful portliness." In order to reach woman's ear, modern
writers must adopt a different course, and it is curious to contrast their utterances with
those of the ballad-makers. Place Charles Reade by the side of Douglas, and then what becomes
of the "waist ye weel micht span"?

Every lady should read A Simpleton, and learn something of the monstrous wrong she inflicts
upon herself by trying to compass an artificially-produced "middle sae jimp." It will prepare
her for Mrs. Haweis's lessons upon The Art of Beauty. One or two passages will give a hint
of their flavor: "Nothing is so ugly as a pinched waist: it puts the hips and shoulders invariably
out of proportion in width.... In deforming the waist almost all the vital organs are affected
by the pressure, and the ribs are pushed out of their proper place." "Tight-lacing is ugly,
because it distorts the natural lines of the figure, and gives an appearance of uncertainty
and unsafeness.... Men seldom take to wife a girl who has too small a waist, whether natural
or artificial." "In architecture, a pillar or support of any kind is called debased and bad
in art if what is supported be too heavy for the thing supporting, and if a base be abnormally
heavy and large for what it upholds. The laws of proportion and balance must be understood.
In a waist of fifteen inches both are destroyed, and the corresponding effect is unpleasant
to the eye. The curve of the waist is coarse and immoderate, utterly opposed to what Ruskin
has shown to be beauty in a curve. Real or artificial, such a waist is always ugly: if real,
it is a deformity that should be disguised; if artificial, it is culpable, and nasty to boot."

No rhyming can withstand such reasoning. If the ballads really had any effect in fostering
an admiration of abnormally small waists, both science and a truer conception of beauty should
by this time have counteracted their influence. Women cannot much longer, with decency, plead
ignorance of the results of a practice which would be ridiculous were it less pernicious.

  J.J.

VICTOR HUGO AT HOME.

On the steep heights of the Rue de Clichy, at the corner of a street, we find the number 21.
How many heads crowned either with a laurel or a diadem have passed beneath the arch of this
doorway since Victor Hugo left the Rue Pigalle to take up his abode here! The apartment inhabited
by the poet can hardly be considered either spacious or elegant. Its dining-room is of cramped
dimensions, and the famous red drawing-room, though handsomely furnished, lacks the air of
individuality that one would naturally expect to find in it. Probably this arises from the
wandering life that Victor Hugo has led for so many years. After the coup d'état the furniture
of his house in the Rue de la Tour d'Auvergne was sold at auction. Contrary to custom, and
probably through the interference of some member of the imperial party, no police were at hand
to protect or watch over the articles exposed for sale. Consequently, the depredations were
frightful. Small objects were carried off bodily, tapestries were cut to pieces and the furniture
and statues were mercilessly mutilated. One well-dressed man walked off with Columbus's compass--that
which the insurrectionists had a few months before examined so respectfully, their leader remarking,
"That compass discovered America." Many of the poet's household treasures remain at Hauteville
House, in the island of Guernsey.

But the curiosity of the abode is the study. From floor to ceiling it is one mass of books,
letters, newspapers and manuscripts: the chairs, the mantelpiece, the table have disappeared
beneath their burdens. A narrow path, shaped in the midst of these accumulations, permits the
poet to pass from the door to the window, Victor Hugo's correspondence is enormous, and is
continually increasing. He receives letters from all sorts of people on all sorts of subjects--letters
of homage and letters of abuse, requests for autographs and demands for money, verses sent
by youthful poets with prayers for his advice, and the wails of the oppressed who look to him
as their sworn champion. Very seldom does Victor Hugo refuse to answer, though his responses
are necessarily brief. Among these accumulated papers must be cited the vast mass of Victor
Hugo's unpublished works. He never fails to devote a certain portion of the day to literary
work, his brain being as clear, his imagination as fertile, his pen as ready, as they were
twenty-five years ago. "Nulla dies sine linea" is the motto of his daily life. Yet with all
his industry he has been heard to lament that he will not live long enough to transfer to paper
all the conceptions that crowd his busy brain. In January, 1876, he remarked to a friend, "Were
I to begin giving to the world my unpublished and completed works, I could issue a new volume
monthly for a year." Among these treasures for posterity are to be found the tragedies of Torquemada
and the Twins (the Iron Mask); the comedies of the Grandmother, The Sword, and perchance The
Brother of Gavroche; a fairy piece wherein the flowers and trees play speaking parts; volumes
of poems entitled The Four Winds of the Mind, All the Lyre, Just Indignation, The Sinister
Years (a connecting link between Les Châtiments and a Terrible Year); and even a scientific
work on the effects of the sphere. He once said, "I have more to do than I have yet done. It
seems to me that as I advance in years my horizon grows larger, so I shall depart and leave
my work unfinished. It would take several more lifetimes to write down all that fills my brain.
I shall never complete my task, but I am resigned: I see in my future more than I behold in
my past."

He was once speaking of the dénouement of Marion Delorme, and remarked that he had written
two last scenes for that tragedy, the first sombre and terrible, the second tender and touching,
and that he had preferred the former, but had yielded to the counsels of his friends and the
actors in the piece, and had suffered it to be produced with the more gentle dénouement. On
being asked if he had destroyed the rejected scene, he made answer that he preserved everything
he had ever written. "Posterity can destroy what it pleases, and keep what it pleases," he
added with a smile.

Victor Hugo's receptions are delightfully simple and informal. He is at home one evening in
the week, when his friends and admirers gather round him. No change of toilette is needed:
the ladies appear in walking costume, the gentlemen in frock-coats. "The Master," as his intimate
friends and disciples love to call him, avoids all airs and posing with the quiet simplicity
of true genius. He does not plant himself in the midst of his company, neither does he assume
the consequential manners of a dictator. Seated in an arm-chair or on a sofa beside some favored
guest, he converses--he does not discourse. At an early hour, in view of the age and the simple
habits of the host, the company separate, the most enthusiastic raising the hand of the Master
to their lips as they take leave. One of the greatest charms about Victor Hugo's manner is
that he never shrinks from or repels any manifestation of genuine admiration or homage. Unlike
celebrities of far less note, who profess to be indignant or disgusted at any such manifestations,
he lends himself to what must often be wearisome to him with a kindly graciousness that often
changes the enthusiasm of his admirers into a passionate personal attachment.

Few men have ever enjoyed so wide-spread and enduring a popularity as does Victor Hugo among
the people of Paris. When, during the dark days of 1870, he returned from his long exile, he
was greeted at the railway-station by a vast crowd, which escorted his carriage to his first
resting-place, the home of M. Paul Meurice, and he was twice compelled to address a few words
to them in order to appease their eagerness to hear his voice. When he appears in public on
great and solemn occasions, such as the funeral of M. Thiers, he is invariably made the object
of a popular ovation of the most touching character. People climb up the sides of his carriage
to touch his hand, mothers lift up their children to the windows imploring his blessing, and
the cry of "Vive Victor Hugo!" goes up from the very hearts of the throng. On the day of the
funeral of Madame Paul Meurice, as the cortége was going along the exterior boulevards, it
passed near a menagerie. Just as the carriage of Victor Hugo came opposite the door the lions
within set up a tremendous roar. "They know that the other one is passing by," said an old
workingman beside the carriage ("Ils sentent que l'autre passe"). The fondness of Victor Hugo
for riding about Paris on the top of an omnibus is well known. It has sometimes happened that
on tendering his fare the conductor has put the coin aside with the remark, "I shall keep that
as a relic." One day, on returning from a session of the senate at Versailles, he arrived late
at the station. It was a snowy day, the train was full, and he was obliged to climb into a
fourth-class place, a seat on the top of the cars. The benches were covered with snow. A workingman
who recognized the poet would not let him sit down till with his blouse he had wiped the seat
clean and dry. Victor Hugo thanked him and offered him his hand, and with a naïve delight the
good fellow cried, "Ah, monsieur, ah, citizen, how proud I am to have seen you and touched
you!" More than once the cabman employed to take the poet to his house has refused to accept
his fare, declaring that the honor of having driven Victor Hugo was recompense enough. On the
day of the funeral of M. Thiers so dense a crowd surrounded the carriage of the poet that it
remained for a long time motionless and imprisoned, and the shouts that greeted him were so
wildly enthusiastic that the coachman who was driving his carriage fairly shed tears, remarking,
however, in a shame-faced manner, "A crying coachman! what a silly sight!"

Naturally, beside this passionate love stands a hate as passionate. The vindictive fury of
the Bonapartists against Victor Hugo can easily be understood. No writer more than he has contributed
to render a restoration of the Empire impossible. Hence insults of all kinds, from the calumny
openly printed in an imperialist newspaper to the anonymous letter overflowing with menaces.
One of these, received in September, 1877, threatened the poet in no doubtful terms. "Do not
imagine, scoundrel, that we will let you escape us a second time:" so ran one of its paragraphs.
Under the Second Empire all letters written to or by Victor Hugo were compelled to pass through
the ordeal of the Black Cabinet. Many of his Parisian correspondents evaded this surveillance
by sending their letters under cover to acquaintances in Germany or by confiding them to travellers
who were going to England. But the letters of the poet to his friends in France were invariably
opened and read, and many of them were confiscated. In a sarcastic mood Victor Hugo caused
a quantity of envelopes to be prepared for his use, in one corner of which was printed an extract
from the law forbidding any agent of the government to open or to tamper with any letter that
passes through the post-office. On one occasion he wrote across the address of a letter, "Family
matters--useless to open it."

It is said that the empress Eugénie, after perusing Les Châtiments, threw the volume aside
with this exclamation: "I do not see what harm we have ever done to this M. Hugo." This remark
was afterward repeated to the poet. "Tell her that the harm was the second of December," was
his reply.

The bottle that contained the ink used in writing Napoleon le Petit had a curious history.
That splendid and fiery piece of invective, so amply justified by after events, was commenced
on the 12th of June, 1852, and finished on the 14th of July, the anniversary of the taking
of the Bastile. With the few drops of ink that remained in the bottle Victor Hugo wrote upon
its label--

          Out of this bottle
          Came Napoleon the Little,

and affixed his signature. The bottle was given by Victor Hugo to Madame Drouet, who afterward
presented it to a young physician who had attended her through a dangerous illness. This young
physician, Dr. Yvan, owed to the intercession of Prince Jerome Napoleon permission to return
to France to visit his dying father. Having invited the prince to dinner after his return,
he showed him as a curiosity the famous bottle. No sooner had the prince read the inscription
than he insisted upon taking possession of it, and in spite of the remonstrances of Dr. Yvan
he carried it off in triumph.

Victor Hugo is very hospitable, and delights in having three or four friends to dine with him,
but his appetite, though healthful, is neither very great nor very dainty: he prefers plain
food and drinks only light claret habitually. He is a very early riser, and on fine spring
or summer mornings he may often be met at six o'clock taking a stroll in the Champs Élysées.
Of his fondness for riding on the tops of omnibuses I have already spoken. These long rides,
when he traverses Paris from one end to the other, are his periods of composition. He sits
plunged in a profound reverie, with vague eyes gazing unseeing into space. So well are his
moods understood by the conductors and habitual travellers on those lines that he is always
left undisturbed. Sometimes the greater part of the day will be passed in these excursions,
nor does any severity of the weather ever daunt the aged poet. Yet with all the quiet simplicity
of his habits his daily life has not escaped the shafts of calumny. The Bonapartist press declared
that he was a drunkard who used often to be picked up insensible from the floor of his own
dining-room. He has been called an assassin because of his sympathy with the proscribed Communists,
a madman because of his enthusiastic and impassioned utterances, and he has been said to be
a hunchback whose deformity was dissimulated by the skill of his tailor.

Any sketch of the poet's home-life would be incomplete did I not touch on his passionate fondness
for his grand-children, the two little beings whose prattle and caresses lend a charm of peculiar
sweetness to the waning hours of that illustrious career. For them the world-renowned genius
is but the most loving and tender of grandfathers. Their games, their studies, their baby caprices,
sway the actions of that grand personality as the zephyrs ruffle the surface of the summer
ocean. The creator of Marion Delorme excels in manoeuvring a puppet-show and in getting up
plays on a dolls' theatre. The author of Les Miserables often lulls these little ones to sleep
with improvised tales of wonderful fascination. For their sakes he becomes a sculptor and moulds
in bread-crumb most marvellous pigs with four matches for legs. They it is who know best the
almost feminine tenderness, the wellnigh maternal love, of which that powerful nature is capable.

I write in the present tense, yet as I write these things exist no longer. The red drawing-room
is closed, the dwelling on the Rue de Clichy is deserted. Victor Hugo is in Guernsey, and from
that far retreat come sinister rumors respecting his failing health. These are denied by his
friends, but are stoutly supported by his enemies. Which of them speak the truth? That is hard
to tell. It may be that this grand career, long and lustrous as a summer day, has reached its
evening hour at last. Perchance we shall see no more the massive head framed in its snow-white
locks and beard, the piercing eyes, the stalwart frame that bore so lightly the burden of wellnigh
fourscore years. It may be so, and yet we hope, we pray, for the return of him who lights our
century with the lustre of the great creative genius of the world.

  L.H.H.

SPIRITS IN SCANDINAVIA.

Although it is generally known that there have been of late great and peculiar changes in the
laws which regulate the sale of intoxicating drinks in the Scandinavian peninsula, there is
not among foreigners an accurate idea of these changes. It may not therefore be uninteresting
to state them a little in detail, as well as to glance at the results as gathered from personal
experience and observation in different parts of Sweden and Norway. It should be premised that
the peculiar "vanity" of both the Swedes and the Norwegians is spirits, and that the recent
licensing laws in Scandinavia have been largely levelled against the sale of these drinks.
For about a century prior to 1854, Sweden was so given to drunkenness that one who has had
special opportunities of judging described it as "the most drunken country in the world." Free
trade in spirits was practically in force: every small land-owner could distil on payment of
a nominal license fee, and in towns every burgher had the right of sale. The whole country
may be said "to have been deluged with spirits;" but, profiting by the exertions of the apostles
of temperance, a public opinion was created which twenty-four years ago produced a bill on
which the existing general law is based. It abolished the small stills and imposed a comparatively
heavy duty on the popular drink, branvin. It established a sort of threefold control over the
issue of new licenses for the sale of spirits, under which the communal committee, the commune
and the governor of a province have power to restrict or lessen the number of such licenses,
while each seller of spirits was required to pay to the local rates a tax on the amount of
spirits sold. The licenses were issued for periods of three years, and sold by auction to the
highest bidders. To such an extent has the sale of spirits been swept under this law from the
rural parts of Sweden that in 1871 there were only four hundred and sixty places for the sale
of spirits in the country, the towns excepted. From observation and from the report of others
the writer is able to say that the effect of this has been most beneficial in the rural parts,
materially contributing to the sobriety and the moral welfare of the people. The general law,
it may be noticed, had some of the clauses which are commonly supposed to attach to the later
local laws that have been put into operation. It contained a permissive clause which allowed
of the formation of companies to control the spirit-sale in towns. One company may take the
whole of the licenses allotted to any town, guaranteeing a certain income to the town from
such sale of spirits. In Gothenburg, the chief port of Sweden, such a company was formed at
the suggestion of a committee appointed in 1865 to inquire into the cause of the constant increase
of pauperism and insanity there, which it charged largely on the sale of spirits, especially
in dark, unhealthy places. This company, which was called the "Goteborg Utskankings Bolag,"
began operations in October, 1865, with forty licenses, and acquired by 1868 the whole of the
public-house licenses for the sale of spirits, with the exception of about a dozen, the owners
of which had life-licenses. The Bolag, or company, had, with these exceptions, a monopoly of
the sale of spirits in the town in places for consumption on the premises, and a monopoly to
that extent only. It weeded out some of the worst of these public-houses: it improved the condition
of the rest, appointing salaried managers, who had in addition the profit on the sale of food
and all drinks except spirits, the sale of the latter being under very stringent regulations
for the profit only of the Bolag. The managers were compelled to sell food, "cooked and hot"
if needed; to give no credit; to keep orderly, clean and well-ventilated houses; to allow no
drunkenness; and not to sell spirits to those "overloaded." In the first ten years of its existence
the Bolag met with opposition, not only from spirit-sellers who sold for non-consumption on
the premises, but also from the many sellers of ale and porter, who were permitted to sell
those drinks unnoticed by the law. It is claimed that in spite of this competition the working
of the company materially contributed to the sobriety of the town; and it may be worth while
to test this by the facts.

When the Bolag began in 1865 there were, for the police year, 2070 cases of drunkenness; in
1866 there were only 1424; and there was a decrease in the next year, and again in 1868, when
the number was 1320, which has proved the minimum. From that period there has been an increase,
until in 1876--the latest year for which the facts are procurable--the number of cases was
2357. But during the whole of that time the population has been increasing: it was 46,557 in
1866, and in 1876 it was over 66,000; so that the apparent increase in these years is a proportionate
though very small decrease--a decrease of about one per cent. There has been also a large decrease
in the more serious crimes reported to the police of the town. As to pauperism, there is a
decrease in the number of persons receiving entire relief from the community, but an increase
in the number of those receiving partial relief. The sales of spirits by the company's agents
have materially increased, but it is urged that this is due to the fact that in its earlier
years it had more opposition to encounter, while in 1875 it had acquired a full monopoly over
the sale of spirits, except in the instances of the life-licenses, which had been reduced in
number. Its gross profits have materially increased, rising from £7200 in English money in
1865 to £52,850 in 1876, and the amount of the net profit it paid into the town treasury had
increased from £2800 to £40,100! The authorities of the town are satisfied with these results;
and there is an almost universal belief that the state of Gothenburg in regard to drunkenness
is incomparably better than it would have been without the operation of the Bolag: at the same
time it is fair to state that some are of opinion that the benefits have not been so great
as they should have been, and that the company has to some extent been worked rather with a
view to money-making for the community than to the repression of drunkenness. As to the general
opinion, it is indicated by the fact that every large town in Sweden has now followed in the
wake of Gothenburg. In 1871 the Norwegian Storthing passed a law to enable their towns to follow
suit; and about a score have adopted a similar scheme, modified by allowing the profits of
the Norwegian "associations" to be paid by the members to objects of public utility.

As to personal impressions of the working of the system, it may be first said that attention
having been so fully directed to the provision made for sale of food in these public-houses,
this was tested in many with satisfactory results--food cheap, plentiful and wholesome being
procurable. The public-houses were found to be generally neat and orderly, but not equal in
comfort or appearance to the public-houses in other lands, several of them being underground
vaults merely. The company has in Gothenburg twenty-five public-houses now; it leases the right
of sale of spirits to eleven eating-houses and clubs; it has seven spirit-shops and thirteen
wholesale places of sale; so that it makes ample provision for the satisfying of the thirsty
throats of the Swedes. Unquestionably, Gothenburg has still a larger amount of drunkenness
than is known in towns of equal size elsewhere, and a few minutes' observation near one of
these "model public-houses" shows that there is a very great sale of drink; but it is also
evident that much of the sale on market-days is to country-people from districts where there
are no public-houses. Finally, the result of some time given to observation and to the consideration
of the question on the spot convinced us that the stricter regulation and supervision of the
sale of spirits in this method has reduced the proportionate drunkenness so far as it is brought
before police notice; that the public-houses are improved in appearance and in order; that
the grosser evils are to some extent done away with, and the community pecuniarily benefited;
but that the working of this "experiment" has not succeeded in lessening the exceedingly large
local demand for spirits.

  J.W.S.

RUSSIAN RECRUITING.

It is a common observation in the mouths of men who are estimating Russia's military strength
that, although short of money, she has at least a boundless supply of men; but this idea, though
plausible at first sight, is utterly erroneous. A few years ago the confidence of the Russian
optimists in their "inexhaustible numbers" was rudely shaken by the discovery that in a single
year, out of eighty-four thousand conscripts sent up to the various recruiting centres, no
fewer than forty-four thousand were rejected as unfitted for service by disease or other physical
defects, not inclusive of short stature. The government took the alarm, and gave orders for
the immediate formation of a medical commission and the thorough investigation of the sanitary
condition of the population at large. This was promptly done, and the result startled all Russia
with the announcement that her strength was barely one-half what it had previously been supposed
to be.

Nor is this by any means an over-statement of the case. In European Russia the weakness in
productive ages is such that whereas in Great Britain the proportion of persons alive between
the ages of fifteen and sixty is 548 in the thousand, and in Belgium 518, in Russia it barely
reaches 265. It is computed that in the government of Pultava alone, by no means a populous
district, not less than one hundred thousand persons are absolutely disabled by various chronic
complaints. Out of the forty-nine millions of the laboring class, the "raw material" of the
Russian army, fully fifty per cent. are practically unfit to serve. The statistics of the average
duration of human life are even more terribly significant. In England and Northern Germany,
according to the best authorities, every man lives, on an average, about 40 years; in Southern
Germany, 38 years; and in France, 36. In Russia, on the other hand, the average, even in the
healthiest regions (i.e. the north and west), varies from 27 to 22 years. Along the banks of
the Volga and in the south-east provinces generally, where the conditions of life are less
favorable, the proportion falls as low as 20 years, while in the governments of Perm, Viatka
and Orenburg it is only 15.

In whatever way this glaring evil may be explained away by native apologists, it really springs
from two very simple causes--insufficient wages and popular ignorance. The miserably low scale
of wages among the artisans of the great towns has long since become proverbial, but in the
agricultural districts matters are even worse. The ordinary wages of the Russian "field-hand"
are as follows: Laborers by the day, 37-1/2 kopecks (about 25 cents) per diem; by the month,
23 kopecks (15 cents); by the season, 17 kopecks (11 cents); in harvest, 75 kopecks (half a
dollar). For this pittance the peasants toil from twelve to fifteen, and often sixteen, hours
a day; and, thanks to their insufficient food, the constant strain soon begins to tell. A few
seasons of such overwork and their strength breaks down altogether, while, instead of the substantial
diet needed to recruit it, their scanty fare is still further diminished by the countless fasts
of the Greek Church, occurring twice, or even thrice, a week. Hence, upon the first outbreak
of fever or cholera the poor creatures perish helplessly, thousands upon thousands, while the
St. Petersburg fashionables, yawning over the printed death-roll, languidly wonder why the
lower classes are so careless of their health. Nor are the calamities entailed by superstition
less deplorable than those which spring from poverty. Those who have seen, in the villages
of the interior, new-born infants plunged in ice-cold water which it would be thought sacrilege
to warm; children of four and five running about on a bitter day in the fall of the year with
no clothing but a light linen shirt; cholera-stricken peasants refusing the medicines offered
them; and women employed in hard field-labor three days after their confinement,--can easily
credit the statement, frightful as it is, that at least fifty, and in some cases eighty-three,
per cent. of the children born in the provinces die in their infancy, and that the population
of certain districts has diminished fully one-third during the past generation.

  D.K.

SOCIETIES OF HEALTH.

That an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure has passed into a proverb, and yet there
is no doubt that the majority of the cases of sickness, general ill health and debility, especially
with women, arise from a disregard of the simplest rules for health. But how shall the people
learn these rules unless they are taught them? and who so well fitted to teach them as the doctors?

Does any one say that it is against the interest of the doctors to prevent disease? The reply
would be that such a conception of the medical profession is a very low one; for doctors were
men before they acquired their profession, and there is little doubt that they would find their
profession a much more agreeable, and possibly a more profitable, one if, as in China, they
were paid for keeping their patients well, instead of for curing, or trying to cure, them when
they are sick.

At least such a conception of his office has occurred to Dr. George Dutton of Springfield,
Mass., and he has been engaged for some years in attempting to have the idea practically introduced
in that city. About two years ago he started a Society of Health there with a few members.
The members, who have now reached about fifty, pay him two dollars each a year for advice and
one dollar for the expenses of the society. Whenever they need his services they call upon
him and get his advice gratis, or he calls upon them at their homes for half price. But this
is the smallest part of the innovation. By the agreement Dr. Dutton binds himself to give them
a free lecture once a month upon matters of hygiene and cognate subjects, either serving as
lecturer himself or obtaining the services of some competent person for the same duty. When
the society was first formed it was made a part of the agreement that the members should annually
elect their consulting physician, but so far the society has preferred to elect Dr. Dutton
to this position.

In these days of enforced combinations for economy there is no reason why such societies of
health should not multiply, to the manifest benefit of all parties concerned.

  E.H.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

     The Cossacks: A Tale of the Caucasus in 1852. By Count Leo Tolstoy.
     Translated from the Russian by Eugene Schuyler. New York: Charles
     Scribner's Sons.

