'It might have done years ago,' I remarked, 'before your trees ran to 'scrape,' and when they
yielded enough 'dip' to keep all the stills busy; but now they are eating you up. You have
fully four thousand dollars idle here. Sell them, Preston--that amount would help you out of debt.'

'Dat's what I tells master Robert, Mr. Kirke, but he sort o' clings to ole tings, sar,' said
Joe, in the free, familiar tone usual with him.

'But you do just as badly, Joe,' I replied. 'You let these darkies waste more than they eat,
and you keep four here to do the work of three. You are no better than your master.'

'Only half so good, Mr. Kirke,' rejoined the black, showing a set of teeth which a dentist
might have used for a door plate; 'only half so good, 'case I'se only half white. But, if master
Robert 'ould leff me handle de whip, I'd show him suffin'! I reckon de int'rest 'ouldn't be
ahind den.'

'Why? don't you let Joe whip the negroes?' I asked Preston.

'No, not now; I did, till some years ago, when he almost killed one of them, and came near
getting me into serious trouble. He could manage them well enough without whipping, if he'd
curb his impetuous temper a little.'

'But I does curb it, master Robert, and it tain't ob no use. Dey knows I can't whip 'em, an'
dey don't keer fur de starvin', or de tyin' up, or de talkin' to in de meetin'. Dey don't mind
fur nuffin' but de whip, an' a little ex'cise wid dat does a nigger good when he'm right down
'fractory. And you has 'lowed, master Robert, dat I warn't so much ter blame in dat 'fair ob
Black Cale.'

'Well, perhaps you weren't. It's a good story, Kirke; did I ever tell it to you?'

'No; I'd be glad to hear it.'

'Come, Joe,' said his master, good-naturedly, 'you can tell it better than I. You know it by
heart.'

'Well, master, if you says so,' replied Joe; and as we seated ourselves in a semicircle on
some rosin barrels, the black proceeded to give the following illustration of the working of
free and slave institutions:

'Well, you see, Mr. Kirke, de darky's name wus Black Cale, an' he wus a raised up 'long wid
me by de ole gemman--dat am master Robert's gran'fer. He wus allers a hard-bitted, 'fractory
darky, but he wus smart, awful smart, and could do a heap ob work when a minded to; but he
wusn't a minded to bery of'en, an' ole master used to hab ter flog him--flog him bery hard.
Well, finarly, de ole gemman grow'd tired ob doin' so much ob dat, an' he call Cale ter him
one day, an' he say:

''Cale, you'se a likely nigger, an' I don't like ter flog you so much. Now, I'll leff you hire
you' time, an' gwo down ter Newbern, an' shirk fur you'seff.'

'Ole master knowed Cale wus habin' a bad 'fect on de oder darkies, an' he 'lowed 'twould be
cheap leffin' him gwo ef he didn't get a picayune fur him. Well, Cale, he took ter dat ter
onst, an' he 'greed to gib ole master one fifty a year fur his time; an' so he put off ter
Newbern. Well, ebery ting gwo on right smart till de ole gemman die. Cale, he work hard, pay
master ebery year, and sabe up quite a heap. Well, ole master die widout a will, an' all de
property gwo ter de two sons; dat am master James an' master Thomas--he war master Robert's
fader. Now master James he neber lib'd on de plantation, so he sold all his half ob de nigs
to master Thomas, an' put all de 'vails inter his bisness down dar ter Mobile, whar he am now,
doin' a heap in de cotton way. But he didn't sell his half ob Cale, 'case master Thomas wouldn't
buy him, nohow. Well, dey owned Cale tugedder fur a spell, an' Cale he work on right smart,
till one day master James come home, and he tells master Thomas dat on de way he'd a stopped
at Newbern, and sole his half ob Cale ter Cale heseff, fur five hundred dollar, and giben him
de free papers. Well, den Cale he want to buy de oder half ob heseff ob master Thomas, an'
master Thomas he offer to take de same money; but Cale say de oder half not wuth so much as
de fust, an' dat he wouldn't gib only two fifty.'

'Not worth so much--why not?' I asked.

'Why, Cale say 'case he could do what he like wid de free half, and he reckoned he shouldn't
be quite so 'sponsible den fur de slave half,' and here Joe broke into a merry fit of laughter,
in which Preston joined.

'Well, master Thomas an' Cale couldn't 'gree 'bout de buyin', but Cale promise to gib seventy-five
dollar a year fur de use ob master's half, an' he gwo off agin ter Newbern. Den de time gwo
by fur a yar or two, but master neber git nary dime out ob Cale fur his half. Cale would say
dat only half ob him wus free, an' de oder half wasn't 'sponsible, and couldn't pay its debts,
nohow. Finarly, master, seein' he couldn't git nuffin out ob Cale, only offers ob two fifty
fur de oder half--and dat he wouldn't take, nohow--sent me down to Newbern to sort o' mediate
'tween Cale an' he. Well, I coaxed Cale to 'gree to wuck one monfh for heseff and de oder monfh
fur massa, and I come home; but it warn't ob no use; Cale would wuck, but massa neber seed
a fip ob de pay. Finarly, af'er he'd a gone on dat way 'bout ten yar, stowin' 'way what he
arned whar nobody could fine it, an' allers off'rin' two fifty fur de oder half ob heseff,
master Thomas he die, and master Robert he come ter lib on de plantation. Den master Robert
axed me what he should do wid Cale, and I tole him to take de two fifty, and leff him gwo.
But he say, 'no,' dat he wouldn't sell him fur dat, nohow.' And here the black looked slyly
at his master, and a merry twinkle came into his eyes. 'Well, den, I tole master Robert dat
I tought I could fix Cale ef he'd leff me manage him jess as I like. He 'greed to dat, an'
I gwoes down to Newbern, an' makes Cale come home, an' den I say to him:

''Now, Cale, you stay yere, an' gwo to wuck. Ebery monfh you wuck fur me, an' ebery oder monfh
you wuck fur you'seff, an' when you wuck fur you'seff I pay you so much fur ebery barr'l ob
dip, an' so much fur ebery barr'l ob scrape, an' so much fur ebery day when you wuck roun';
an' I makes you pay so much fur what you lib on. Well, Cale, he 'gree to dat. He wuck de fust
monfh fur heseff, an' he did wuck--he done twice so much as any hand on de plantation; but
de next monfh, when he wuck fur me, he don't do nuffin but lay 'bout, an' git drunk. I stood
dat till de monfh wus up--fur I neber did take ter whippin' de nigs, an' master Robert know
dat--an' den w'en Cale wus clean sober, I tied him up to gib him a floggin'. Well, w'en he
wus a stripped, an' I was jess gwine to lay on de lashes, Cale say to me, says he:

''Look a yere, 'ou Joe, 'ou may whip massa's half ob dis nig jess so long as 'ou likes, but
ef 'ou put de lash onter my half, I'll take de law on 'ou. I will, shore.'

'Dat sot me a tinkin'; fur de fac wus, I'd nary right to flog his half; but den it 'curred
ter me dat none but darkies wus roun', an' so I tought I had him, shore. Well, I puts on de
lashes, an' he keeps a tellin' me he'd hab de law on me, which make me sort o' 'zasparated,
till I put 'em on right smart, an' at lass he gib in. Well, w'en I'd a got him a feelin' 'bout
right, an' wus only jess puttin' de lass blows on to finish up makin' a decent nigger ob him,
master Robert he come up, and when he seed de blood a runnin' down his back, he say Cale had
been whipped 'bout 'nough, and I must stop. Cale turned up missin' dat night, an' got off to
Newbern; an' shore 'nuff, de next evenin', long 'bout dark, de sherrif he rode up to de house
wid a writ fur master Robert fur habin' made 'salt an' batt'ry on one collud man, called Caleb
Preston, an' he pulled out a suspeny dat make massa Robert witness agin heseff! ha! ha! You
see Cale wus smart; he know'd master Robert b'longed to de Baptist meeting, an' wouldn't lie
fur all de niggers in Jones county; so he had him dar, ha! ha!'

Here Joe for some minutes was unable to continue the narrative. His merriment was contagious.
I laughed till my sides were sore, and Preston enjoyed the story quite as much as I did.

'Well, what was the end of it?' I asked.

'Only, master Robert hed to be toted off to Newbern dat night, git bail or sleep in de jail,
and de next mornin', af'er de nig hed a hed ten yars' use ob heseff fur nuffin, master Robert
hed to do what he'd a said, an' his fader afore him hed said, dey neber would do--dat is, take
two fifty fur de oder half ob Cale! Ha! ha! De next time I gwoes to Newbern I hunt Cale up,
an' I tell him he must study fur de law, shore; an' dat ef he done it, I know'd master Robert
would pay de 'spences, out ob lub to de country.'

The negroes who were attending the still had dropped their work to listen to Joe's story, and
at its close guffawed in a chorus that made the woods ring. Hearing it, Joe sprang to his feet,
shouting out: 'Yere--'bout you' wuck dar; leff me kotch you eavesdroppin' on gemmen agin, an'
I'll gib you what I gabe Cale. 'Bout you' wuck, I say.' They turned nimbly to their tasks,
and Joe resumed his seat.

'I see the moral of that story, Preston,' I said, when the negro had concluded.

'What is it?'

'That a darky may be as smart as a white man. Cale outwitted you.'

'Well, he did,' he replied, laughing; 'but that isn't the moral: it is that flogging never
accomplishes its object.'

'I'm not so sure of that. Joe had brought Cale to terms, 'made a decent nigger on him,' when
you, unluckily, interfered.'

'It ain't so much de floggin' on 'em, Mr. Kirke,' said Joe, 'as dar knowin' dat you will do
it ef dey desarve it. Dar ain't a darky on de plantation dat don't know master Robert an' de
good missus 'ould rader be flogged demselves dan flog dem; an' dat wucks bad, Mr. Kirke, sorry
bad;' and the negro shook his head with a grave, thoughtful air.

'Tell me, Preston,' I said, after a slight pause, 'how is it that your neighbor Dawsey, with
only seventy-five negroes, sends us more produce than you do with a hundred and fifty?'

'Simply because he treats his hands like brutes, while I treat mine like men.'

'I hope you'll take no offence,' I replied, 'but it appears to me there must be some other
reason. He has only half your number.'

'Well, I will tell you how he and I manage, and you can judge for yourself. Dawsey has seventy-five
slaves; forty child-bearing women, twenty men, and fifteen children under five years. The sixty
adults are all prime hands. They are given daily tasks, which they cannot possibly do in less
than fifteen hours, leaving them only nine hours out of the twenty-four for eating, sleeping,
feeding their children, and the waking rest necessary to working people. He never whips them
on a week day, because it wastes working time, but makes Sunday a general flogging season.
He has two women where he has one man, and each woman is expected to bear a child a year. If
she doesn't, she is sold. They are made to work in the field till the labor pains are on them;
and they are allowed only two weeks' rest after confinement. Three of them have borne children
in the woods this season. He keeps only one nurse for the fifteen children, and as soon as
each child is five years old--the age at which it can be legally sold away from its mother--it
is disposed of to the traders. In addition, three of these women are his own mistresses and
they are expected to have children as fast as the others. He serves their children like the
rest; that is, rears them to the age of five, and then sells them as he would so many hogs.'

'My God!' I exclaimed, 'he's a monster.'

'There are different opinions about that. Dawsey passes for a jovial good fellow; keeps open
house for his friends; spends money freely at the elections, and two years ago 'got religion'
at a camp meeting. He merely regards his slaves as chattels, and manages his plantation in
perhaps the only way that is profitable in an old section of country like this.'

'And how is it with you? How do you manage?' I asked.

'Leff me tell, master Robert,' said the black, smiling. 'I knows all de 'ticulars 'bout dat.'

'Well, go on,' said Preston, laughing, 'but don't be too hard on me.'

'We hab,' continued the black, 'countin' me in, a hundred an' fifty-one darkies, all in fam'lies--faders,
mudders, children, and some on 'em gran'faders and gran'mudders,'most all born on de plantation,
an' some on 'em livin' on it fur forty, fifty, sixty, an' seventy yar. Out ob dese, we hab
only forty-two full hands, 'case some ob de wimmin dat come in de ages fur full wuck am sickly,
puny tings, only fit fur house wuck or nussin'. From de whole I gits equal to fifty-four full
hands. 'Cordin' to master Robert's direction, I gib 'em easy ten-hour tasks; but suffin' or
anoder turn up 'most ebery day, so dat 'bout half on 'em don't do full wuck, an' I reckon dey
don't make, on de whole, more'n 'bout nine hour a day. So you see, Cunnel Dawsey, he hab sixty,
an' he wuck em fifteen hour a day; we hab only fifty-four, an' we wuck 'em nine hour a day;
an' 'cordin' to my 'rithmetic, dat would make de Cunnel turn out 'bout twice as much truck
as we does.'

'And you have twice as many mouths to feed as he,' I remarked; 'and the result is he makes
money, while you--'

'Lose nigh onter two thousand a year, Mr. Kirke, an' hab done it ebery yar fur five yar, eber
since master Robert come on to de plantation, an' gwo to workin' on human principles, as he
calls 'em.'

This was said in so sad and regretful a tone, that, in spite of the serious manner of both
the black and his master, I laughed heartily. When my merriment had somewhat subsided, I said:

'Joe, what would you do to mend this state of affairs?'

'It can't be mended if we stay in dis ole country, an' wuck 'cordin' to master Robert's notion.'

'Then you mean to say you can't apply humane principles to slave labor, in an old district
of country, and make money?'

'Yes,' said Preston, rising and pacing up and down in the small semi-circle formed by the rosin
barrels, 'that is what he means to say, and it is true.'

'Then how do the majority of turpentine planters in this section make money? They do make it,
that is certain.'

'By overworking their hands, as Dawsey does. All may not be as severe with them as he is, but
all overwork them, more or less,' replied Preston.

'I don't know 'bout dat, master Robert, twelve and eben firteen hour a day neber hurt a prime
hand, if he hab good feed.

'Well, it is six o'clock, and supper must be in waiting,' said Preston, drawing out his watch;
'we'll talk more on this subject to-night. Joe, bring the books up to the house this evening.
Mr. Kirke has promised to look into our affairs, and I shall need you.'

'Yas, master Robert,' replied the black; and, mounting the horses, Preston and I rode off to
the mansion.

CHAPTER X.

