Childie. Song. By Behrend. Published in keys to suit all voices.--The song is very similar
to all his others. An old lady advising a child to die young.

The Biter Bit. Song. Words and music by Henry Pontet.--A warning to any who would marry for
money, and not for love. In learning the above three songs I am sure that singers will be as
much distracted as I have been by little squares like lottery coupons announcing that somebody
else's song cost £250. If this statement could appear elsewhere--say on separate slips--the
songs would be more pleasant to read.

HENRY KLEIN.

The Land of Song. Song for tenors and sopranos by that clever composer, Franz Leideritz. Not
so original as "Flowers from Home," the memory of which still delights us.

ORSBORN AND TUCKWOOD.

Sailing Across the Sea. Song. By Vernon Rey.--Prettily told and easy to learn.

Merry Melodies. A series of duets for two violins for schools and classes, arranged by Arthur
Graham. We see from the title-page that there are to be arrangements of the works of eminent
composers, but the names are not given.

W. J. WILLCOCKS AND CO.

Offertoire and Fugue in B flat. Grand Offertoire, founded upon subjects in Schumann's Quintet,
op. 44.--These are two finely-written organ solos by George F. Vincent. Valuable additions
to our stock of English organ music.

MARRIOTT AND WILLIAMS.

Twenty Miles to London Town. Song. Written and composed by Gerald M. Lane.--Mr. Lane is more
fortunate in his music than in his words. The ballad--for genuine English ballad it is--is
of the "Bailiff's Daughter of Islington" type, and is published in F, G, and A.

Captor and Captive. A song of Araby. By Edwin J. Quance.--A good stirring song for baritones.

BOWERMAN AND CO.

Deuxième Nocturne pour Piano. Par G. J. Rubini.--An unpretending piano piece of the Gustave
Lange type.

EXPLANATION OF FRENCH AND OTHER TERMS USED IN MODERN COOKERY.

PART I.

Allemande.--Concentrated white velouté (see velouté) sauce, seasoned with nutmeg and lemon
juice, and thickened with yolks of eggs and cream.

Angelica.--A plant, the stalks of which are preserved with sugar; as it retains its green colour
it is pretty for ornamenting sweet dishes, cakes, etc.

Appareil.--This word is applicable to a preparation composed of various ingredients, as appareil
de gateau (mixture for a cake).

Aspic.--Name given to clear savoury jelly, to distinguish it from sweet jelly. Cold entrées,
which are moulded and have the ingredients set in jelly, are also called aspics.

Assiette volante.--A small dish (holding no more than a plate) which is handed round the table
without ever being placed on it. Things that must be eaten very hot are often served in this
way. Little savouries, foie-gras, or cheese fondus in paper cases are thus handed.

Au bleu.--An expensive way of boiling fish. A broth is made by boiling three onions, two carrots,
two turnips, some parsley, pepper, salt, sufficient water, a tumbler of white wine, and a tumbler
of vinegar together; the scum is removed as it rises, the fish is simmered in the broth. This
broth is called Court bouillon. Fish cooked thus is eaten hot or cold, with suitable sauce.

Baba.--A Polish cake of a very light description.

Bain marie.--A sort of bath-saucepan, which stands on a stove with hot water in it, and has
small bright saucepans stood in the water for the contents to cook slowly without reducing
or spoiling them. A bain marie has no cover.

Bande.--The strip of paste that is put round tart; sometimes the word is also applied to a
strip of paper or bacon.

Barde de lard.--A slice of bacon. To barder a bird is to fasten a slice of bacon over it.

Béchamel sauce.--Equal quantities of velouté sauce and cream boiled together. The sauce was
named after a celebrated cook.

Beignets.--Fritters.

Beurre noir.--Butter stirred in a frying-pan over a brisk fire until it is brown, then lemon-juice
or vinegar, and pepper and salt are added to it.

Beurre fondus.--Melted, that is to say oiled, butter.

Bigarade sauce.--Melted butter, with the thin rind and the juice of a Seville orange boiled in it.

Blanch.--To parboil or scald. To whiten meat or poultry, or remove the skins of fruit or vegetables
by plunging them into boiling water, and then sometimes putting them into cold water afterwards,
as almonds are blanched.

Blanquette.--A kind of fricassée.

Boudin.--A very delicate entrée prepared with quenelle forcemeat or with fine mince.

Bouquet garni.--A handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a small bay leaf, and six green onions,
tied securely together with strong thread.

Bouilli.--Boiled meat; but fresh beef, well boiled, is generally understood by this term.

Bouillie.--A sort of hasty pudding. Bouillie-au-lait is flour and milk boiled together.

Bouillon.--Thin broth or soup.

Braise.--To stew meat that has been previously blanched, very slowly with bacon or other fat,
until it is tender.

Braisière.--A saucepan with a lid with a rim to it, on which lighted charcoal can be put.

Brider.--To put thin string or thread through poultry, game, etc., to keep it in shape.

Brioche.--A sort of light cake, rather like Bath bun, but not sweet, having as much salt as
sugar in it.

Brandy butter.--Fresh butter, sugar, and brandy beaten together to a cream.

Caramel.--Made by melting a little loaf sugar in a saucepan, and as soon as it is brown, before
it burns, adding some water to it. Sometimes used as a colouring for stews. Made into a syrup
by adding more sugar after the water, it is a very good pudding sauce.

Casserole.--A stew-pan. The name given to a crust of rice moulded in the shape of a pie, then
baked with mince or a purée of game in it.

Cerner.--Is to cut paste half way through with a knife or cutter, so that part can be removed
when cooked to make room for something else.

Charlotte.--Consists of very thin slices of bread, steeped in oiled butter, and placed in order
in a mould, which is then filled with fruit or preserve.

Chartreuse of vegetables.--Consists of vegetables tastefully arranged in a plain mould, which
is then filled with either game, pigeons, larks, tendons, scollops, or anything suitably prepared.

Chartreuse à la Parisienne.--An ornamental dish made principally with quenelle forcemeat, and
filled with some kind of ragoût, scollops, etc.

Chausse.--A jelly bag.

Compote.--Fruits preserved in syrup. Apple and any other kind of fruit jelly. This term is
also used to designate some savoury dishes, prepared with larks, quails, or pigeons, with truffles,
mushrooms, or peas.

Consommé.--Strong and clear broth used as a basis for many soups and gravies.

Conti (potage). Lentil soup.

Contise.--Small scollops of truffles; red tongue, or other things that are with a knife inlaid
in fillets of any kind to ornament them, are said to be contisés.

Court bouillon.--See au bleu.

Croquettes.--A preparation of minced or pounded meat, or of potatoes or rice, with a coating
of bread-crumbs. Croquettes means something crisp.

Croquantes.--Fruit with sugar boiled to crispness.

Croustades.--An ornamental pie-case, sometimes made of shaped bread, and filled with mince, etc.

Croutons.--Sippets of bread fried in butter; used to garnish. They are various sizes and shapes;
sometimes served with soups.

Cuillerée.--A spoonful. In most French recipes I have found ten spoonfuls equal to a quarter
of a pint of fluid.

Cuisson.--The name given to the liquid in which anything has been cooked.

Dariole.--A sort of cake served hot. The name of small round moulds in which various little
cakes are baked or puddings steamed.

Daubière.--An oval stew-pan in which daubes are cooked. Daubes are meat or fowl stewed in sauce.

Dégorger.--To soak in water for a longer or shorter time.

Dés.--Very small square dice.

Désosser.--To bone; to remove the bones from fish, meat, game, or poultry.

Dorer.--To paint the surface of tarts or cakes with a brush, with egg or sugar, so that they
may be glazed when cooked.

Dorure.--The glaze one uses for pastry; sometimes beaten white of egg, sometimes yolk of egg
and cold water, sometimes sugar only.

Entrées.--A name for side dishes, such as cutlets, fricassées, fricandeaux, sweetbreads, etc.

Entrées (cold).--Consist of cutlets, fillets of game, poultry, &c.; salads of various kinds,
aspics, ham, and many other things.

Entremets.--Second course side dishes. They are of four kinds--namely, cold entrées, dressed
vegetables, scalloped shellfish, or dressed eggs, and lastly, sweets of any kind, puddings,
jellies, creams, fritters, pastry, etc.

Escalopes.--Collops; small round pieces of meat or fish, beaten with a steak beater before
they are cooked, to make them tender.

Espagnole.--Rich, strong stock made with beef, veal and ham, flavoured with vegetables, and
thickened with brown roux. This and velouté are the two main sauces from which nearly all others
are made. The espagnole for brown, the velouté for white.

Etamine.--See Tammy.

Etuver.--To stew meat with little moisture, and over a very slow fire, or with hot cinders
over and under the saucepan.

Faggot.--A bouquet garni.

Fanchonettes and florentines.--Varieties of small pastry, covered with white of egg and sugar.

Faire tomber à glace.--Means to boil down stock or gravy until it is as thick as glaze, and
is coloured brown.

Farce.--Is ordinary forcemeat, such as is used for raised pies.

Feuil etage.--Very light puff paste.

Flamber.--To singe fowls and game after they have been plucked.

Flans.--A flan is made by rolling a piece of paste out rather larger than the tin in which
it is to be baked, then turning up the edge of the paste to form a sort of wall round. Flans
are filled with fruit or preserve, and baked.

Foncer.--To put slices of ham or bacon in the bottom of a saucepan, to line a mould with raw
paste, or to put the first layer of anything in a mould--it may be a layer of white paper.

Fontaine.--A heap of flour with a hollow in the middle, into which to pour the water.

Fondu.--Or fondue. A cheese soufflé.

Fricandeau.--Fillets of poultry or the best pieces of veal, neatly trimmed, larded, and well
glazed, with their liquor reduced to glaze. They are served as entrées.

Fricassée.--A white stew, generally made with chicken and white sauce, to which mushrooms or
other things may be added.

Fraiser.--A way of handling certain pastry to make it more compact and easier to work.

Frémir, frissonner.--To keep a liquid just on the boil--what is called simmering.

Galette.--A broad flat cake.

Gateau.--Cake. This word is also used for some kinds of tarts, and for different puddings.
A gateau is also made of pig's liver; it is therefore rather difficult to define what a "gateau"
is.

Gaufres.--Or wafers. Light spongy biscuits cooked in irons over a stove.

Glacer.--To glaze; to brush hot meat or poultry over with concentrated meat gravy or sauce,
so that it shall have a brown and shiny appearance. Glaze can be bought in skins. Glacer, in
confectionery, means to ice pastry or fruit with sugar.

Gniocchi.--Small balls of paste made with flour, eggs, and cheese to put into soup.

Gramme.--A French weight. An ounce avoirdupois is nearly equal to thirty grammes.

Gras.--Made with meat and fat.

Gratins (au).--Term applied to certain dishes of fish, game, poultry, vegetables, and macaroni
dressed with rich sauces, and generally finished with bread-crumbs or bread-raspings over the top.

Gratiner.--Is to brown by heat, almost burn.

Grenadins.--Similar to a fricandeau, but smaller; grenadins are served with vegetable purées.

DAME HURSEY THE WOOLGATHERER.

When John Smith, as for reasons of his own he called himself, left Pierre, he pulled his hat
well over his eyes and started off across the downs in the direction of Lewes. He knew the
country well, and partly on this account, partly because he did not wish to be recognised,
he struck across unbeaten paths, where he was not likely to meet anyone, avoiding the high
roads as much as he could, and travelling as near as possible as the crow flies, over downs
and meadows to the village he was seeking. It was a good six miles, and he had neither time
nor inclination to pause and look at the scenery around him, so full of charm to those who
live among it, so repellent at first to the stranger's eye, which has not been educated to
notice the various tints and colours which sweep over the soft rounded outlines of those purple
downs, but is at once caught by the grey hollows of the hills and the patches of white chalk
which peep out every here and there on the steeps, and at a distance look like the perpetual
snow of Alpine regions. The scenery of the Sussex Downs is like the Sussex people in this respect--it
requires to be well known to be thoroughly appreciated; cold and reserved at first, it is only
on better acquaintance you learn the sterling worth, the truth, the real kindness of heart,
and the hospitality which characterise the Sussex people. And the downs themselves will not
yield all their beauty at once; you must live among them to thoroughly know and love them;
cold and grey and monotonous as they look at first, in the autumn especially, you will see
what a variety of colours they can show when the fields are golden with corn, and the downs
themselves richly dotted with wild flowers, and the clouds cast fleeting shadows over the slopes,
and the purple and green of the nearer hills melt away into delicate blues and rosy greys in
the distance. And then in winter the clouds play such tricks with the soft rounded hills and
their white chalk sides, which chalk will reveal itself in all its nakedness every here and
there, that it is often easy to imagine yourself in Switzerland, and difficult exceedingly
to tell where the downs end and the clouds begin, so softly have they blended together, those
grey clouds, those white and purple downs. No, the downs are not monotonous to those who look
with careful eyes, at least, though the casual observer may see nothing in them but multitudes
of sheep. Unique they may be, unlike the rest of England they certainly are, but not monotonous.
And then the dales, with the villages nestling in the bottom, are so picturesque, and the green
pastures, separated by dykes, have a homelike appearance, with the small black Sussex cattle
with their long white horns, at least to a Sussex eye.

Over some of these meadows the carpenter, with the little French baby in his arms, now made
his way. Hitherto he had been lucky and had met no one, but now he was approaching a village
a few miles from Lewes, which, for the purposes of this story, we will call Bournemer, and
though the sun had set, it was still too light for him to risk being recognised, so he still
kept to the fields, which he could the more easily do, as the house he sought was nearly a
mile from the village. At last he saw it standing in the next field with a clump of trees on
one side of it; it was little more than a cottage, though from the sheds adjoining it might
have been taken for a small farmhouse; it was sheltered from the north by the down at the foot
of which it lay, its red roof telling well against the soft grey background in the evening
light. It faced the field, the road at the foot of the down running at the back of it, and
already there was a light in one of the lower rooms; the front door was closed, but the gate
of the field was open, details which the carpenter took in at a glance, and interpreted to
mean that the shepherd was gone to fold his sheep for the night, and his wife was at home awaiting
his return to supper.

"He will be back soon. I must be quick; now is my time," said the carpenter to himself, making
his way towards the house by the clump of trees, which afforded him a little shelter. Here
he paused for a few minutes, and, after listening intently, put the baby on the ground while
he took off his shoes. Then, picking it up, he crept quickly and noiselessly across the path
towards the front door, on the step of which he laid his burden, and then crept back to the
trees, where he put on his shoes, and with the purse which Léon had given him for the baby's
maintenance in his pocket, he made his way back to the boat on the beach, congratulating himself
on the success of his scheme. No one, he argued, was any the worse for it, while he was one
thousand francs the better. He had wronged no one, as the baby was sure to be well taken care
of. John Shelley was certain to take it in, and would probably think the Lord had sent it to
him, and, with a chuckle over the shepherd's simplicity, he went his way.

The baby was asleep when he deposited it on the doorstep, but it woke shortly after, and began
to cry lustily for food, but the doors and windows being all closed, its wailing did not penetrate
to the inside of the house. But before the carpenter had been gone half an hour footsteps approached
the house, and the shepherd and his dog entered the gate of the field in which it stood. A
fine, big, handsome man looked this shepherd as he paused to fasten the gate; about thirty
years old, fair, with a florid complexion, blue eyes, and a long, yellowish beard, a face more
remarkable for its kindly good humour than for its intelligence. He was dressed in a long smock,
and he carried a crook, so that there was no mistaking his occupation, of which, by the way,
he was very proud; his father and his grandfather and their fathers and grandfathers had been
shepherds before him for many generations, and that he should ever be anything else than a
shepherd was the last idea likely to enter John Shelley's mind. A shepherd by birth and education,
he followed his calling with an ardour which would have amounted to passion in a warmer temperament.
His sheep were his first thought on waking, his last as he closed his eyes at night, and he
understood them and their ways thoroughly. The life suited him exactly; it might be a lonely
life, wandering for hours on the downs without meeting a living creature day after day, except,
perhaps, occasionally a neighbouring shepherd, but he was used to it. It might be an anxious
life, especially in lambing time, but he was lucky, and rarely lost any lambs. It might be
a dangerous life sometimes in the winter fogs, rambling about on the hills with the risk of
falling into a chalk pit and breaking his neck, but he was always too anxious about his sheep
when overtaken by a fog to think of his own danger. Then the wages were good, and the same
all the year round, with the chance of making some extra money in the shearing season, and
so much a head on each lamb that he reared; and to all intents and purposes he was his own
master, for the farmer to whom the sheep belonged entrusted the management of the flock entirely
to him.

But while the shepherd was fastening the gate the dog ran to the baby, whose cry had reached
his quick ears before it did his master's, and having sniffed all round it, he set up some
short, quick barks, and ran back to the shepherd, calling his attention to the baby as plainly
as his inability to speak would allow him.

"What is it, Rover? what is it? Down, sir, it is only the baby crying; the window must be open,"
said the shepherd, as he approached the house, but Rover, as if to contradict his master, ran
up to the bundle on the doorstep, and barked louder than ever.

John Shelley took longer to take in the fact that an infant was lying crying on his doorstep
than his dog had done. He stooped and looked, and took off his hat to rub his head thoughtfully
and stimulate his brain that he might grasp the idea, and then he stooped again, and this time
picked up the baby, and throwing open the door of the large kitchen, with its sanded floor
of red bricks, stood on the threshold, holding out the wailing child, and saying--

"Look here, Polly, see what I have found on the doorstep."

Mrs. Shelley, who was sitting working, with her foot on a cradle which she was rocking gently
to and fro, more from habit, since the baby was asleep, than for any real reason, looked up
and saw in her husband's arms a bundle wrapped in a red shawl embroidered with gold.

"What is it, John?" she asked; but a cry from the bundle answered the question, and she sprang
to her husband's side in astonishment.

She was a tall, good-looking woman, five or six years younger than the shepherd, with brown
hair and eyes, and a rich colour in her cheeks, which came and went when she was excited; a
bright intelligent face, not beautiful, scarcely handsome in repose, but which at times was
so animated that she often passed for a very pretty woman.

"Give it to me. Oh, John! John! where can it have come from? The dear little creature! And
see what lovely things it has? Only look at this satin quilt in which it is wrapped, and, see,
John, a toy of coral with gold bells! My pretty one, hush! hush! hush!" And Mrs. Shelley rocked
the child in her arms; but her astonishment and admiration got the better of her motherly instinct
for a moment, and she proceeded with her examination of its clothes. "Its nightdress is the
finest cambric and trimmed with real lace, and see this exquisite handkerchief tucked in for
a feeder; look! there is a coronet on it, John. I verily believe the 'Pharisees,' as the children
say, brought it. Do go and see if there is a fairy ring in the meadow, then I shall be sure
they did!"

Now, Sussex peasants--shepherds, especially--were very superstitious in the days in which this
baby was found, and both John Shelley and his wife half believed that the fungus rings, so
often found on the downs, were made by the fairies, or "Pharisees," as they called them. So,
partly to see if he could find any further clue to the child, partly to look for the fungus
ring, John Shelley took a lantern and went out to explore the premises.

As soon as he was gone, Mrs. Shelley, who was an impulsive woman, gave the little stranger
the supper that by right belonged to her own infant.

"My boy is stronger than this little fragile creature, and he must wait till I have fed it,"
she said to herself. "Poor little mite, I don't believe it has been undressed for days, its
beautiful dress is so dirty. I shall have time to bathe it and put it on some of Charlie's
clean things before John comes in to his supper."

And as John was very slow and deliberate in all his actions, and his wife very quick in all
hers, by the time he came back the little stranger was washed and dressed, and fed, and sleeping
quietly in the cradle, while Mrs. Shelley nursed her own boy.

"Well, John, have you found any fairy rings?"

"No, Polly; no, I can't make it out at all; it is very odd--very odd indeed. I can't think
where the child came from," said John, shaking his head, slowly. "I don't believe the fairies
brought it, though," he added, after a pause.

"Who do you think did, then?" asked Mrs. Shelley, quickly.

"I don't know who brought it, but I tell you what, Polly, I believe God sent it and means us
to take care of it."

"Take care of it! Why, of course we must, John. You don't suppose I dreamt of sending it to
the workhouse, do you? Little darling! Why, it is the very thing we have been longing for,
a little girl; it shall be Charlie's foster-sister. All I hope is, whoever brought it will
let us keep it. I love it already!"

"But, Polly, it isn't our child. We must take care of it, of course, for to-night, but you
will have to go to Parson Leslie to-morrow and ask him what we ought to do to find out who
it belongs to."

"Indeed, and I shall do no such thing," said Mrs. Shelley, hastily.

But the shepherd was master in his own home, and announced decidedly--

"Then I must go to-night, late as it is."

"And knock the parson up? It will be eleven o'clock before you get there. Sit down and get
your supper, do, John, and we can talk about consulting him to-morrow."

"That won't do, Polly; either I must go to the rector to-night or you must promise to go to-morrow.
Which is it to be?"

"There never was such a pig-headed man as you. If you set your mind on a thing there is no
turning you. I suppose I shall have to go, or you'll be rushing off now, and I want my supper.
One thing I am sure of, John, and that is, the baby belongs to rich people, and, I think, to
some nobleman, for all the things have a coronet on them, and its clothes are all so fine."

"Is there no name on any of them?"

"No, nor anything to give us the least idea who the child is. It has evidently been accustomed
to luxury, though, and somehow I fancy it is a foreign child. I never saw any baby's clothes
made as these are," said Mrs. Shelley.

A foreign child was an idea John Shelley could not accept so suddenly. His slow phlegmatic
mind could not travel beyond his own country--scarcely beyond the Sussex downs.

"More likely to be one of the quality's children. They don't make their clothes as we do, I
expect; but if you show Mr. Leslie that coronet he may be able to make something of it."

And so it was arranged that Mrs. Shelley should go the next day and consult the rector about
their new-found treasure; but she fully made up her mind to use all the eloquence in her power
to persuade Mr. Leslie to convince John it was plainly their duty to keep the baby which had
been so mysteriously brought to them until its rightful owners claimed it.

The next morning John Shelley was up betimes, as, indeed, he always was; but it was shearing
time, and he was unusually busy, and it was, moreover, Saturday, and he hoped, with the help
of the men who went round the country shearing in the month of June, to finish his flock that
evening, so taking his breakfast and dinner with him, he told Mrs. Shelley not to expect him
back till the evening. Across the dewy meadows in the fresh June morning, the loveliest part
of the day, went John Shelley, startling a skylark every now and then from the ground, from
whence it rose carolling forth its matin song, gently at first, but louder and louder as it
sprang higher and higher, until lost to sight, its glorious song still audible, though John
Shelley was too much occupied with his own thoughts, and, perhaps, too much accustomed to the
singing of the lark, to pay much attention to it. Even his dogs, Rover and Snap, failed to
wake him from his meditation, until he reached the meadow where he had folded his sheep for
the night, and then every thought, except whether the sheep were all safe, vanished from his
mind as he stood counting them. A few words to the dogs explained his wishes that the shorn
sheep were to be driven out and the unshorn left in the fold for the present; and then, after
a great deal of barking on the part of the dogs, and shouting from the shepherd, and rushing
and scrambling on the part of the sheep, their bells jingling a not unmusical accompaniment
to the thrushes and blackbirds, which were pouring out their morning song in the adjoining
copse, this manoeuvre was effected, and John led his shorn flock to the downs, walking in front
with his crook in his hand, while the dogs brought up the rear, yelping and barking at the
heels of any erring sheep that strayed outside the flock.

The shepherd was a man who concentrated all his thoughts on the business he had on hand, and
as he led his sheep to the down on which he meant to leave them to the care of the dogs for
the day, he was making a nice calculation of how long it would take him and his assistants
to finish the shearing, when, just as he was about to leave the sheep, he was accosted by an
old woman. She was tall, thin, with a slight stoop, a hooked nose, bright black eyes, and rough,
crisp, grizzly hair, which gave her rather a witch-like appearance; nor did the bonnet perched
on the top of her head, its crown in the air, tend to dispel this notion. She had a knotted
stick in one hand, and a basket with some pieces of wool off the sheeps' backs which she had
collected from the bushes in the other. It was Dame Hursey, the wool-gatherer, well known to
John Shelley and every other shepherd in the neighbourhood, with all of whom she often had
a gossip, and celebrated in the district as the mother of an unfortunate son, a fine, promising
young sailor, who, having been convicted of robbery some years ago, and served a long sentence
in Lewes gaol, had never been heard of since, unless his mother was in his confidence.

A great gossip was Dame Hursey; she always knew all that went on in the neighbourhood, for
she led a wandering, restless life, never at home except at night, sticking and wool-gathering
in the autumn and winter, haymaking and gleaning in the summer, gossiping, whenever she had
a chance, at all seasons. If anyone were likely to know anything about this strange baby, always
supposing the fairies had had nothing to do with it, it was Dame Hursey, and the shepherd,
being relieved of any further anxiety about the sheep, walked with her and told her the story.

John Shelley was neither a quick-witted nor an observant man, except with regard to the weather,
every sign of which he took in, or he would have noticed that Dame Hursey started perceptibly
when he told her the time he found the baby, and that a glance of quick intelligence shot into
her bright eyes as she heard the story; but when he had finished she gave it as her firm opinion
that the "Pharisees," and no one else, must have brought the child, and she urged John on no
account to part with it, as there was no telling what revenge the fairies might take if their
wishes were set aside. And the old wool-gatherer proceeded to tell such wonderful stories of
the terrible vengeance wrought by these mysterious little beings on people who had despised
their gifts, that the shepherd was glad to put an end to such unpleasant suggestions by walking
off at a rapid pace to his unshorn sheep.

"It is strange, very strange, that I should have met my George the very same night, coming
from Shelley's place too. He has had something to do with this baby as sure as wool is wool.
I'll go round by Mrs. Shelley's and have a look at this wonderful child; perhaps I may find
out something. I doubt it will be a bad thing for George if he is found out this time, if,
as I suspect, he knows a deal more about it than we do, and he was up to no good last night
or he would not have made me swear not to say I had seen him as he did. Well, the child is
safe enough with the Shelleys, and I'll do my best to frighten them into keeping it," muttered
Dame Hursey to herself, as she bent her steps towards the shepherd's house.

(To be continued.)

VARIETIES.

"EXCELLENT HEART."

Take a good-sized, tender heart. Extract all seeds of selfishness, and proceed to stuff as
follows:--

1 lb. crumbs of comfort.

1 quart milk of human kindness.

Several drops essence of goodness and happiness.

Good dripping from the eaves of Love's dwelling.

Blend these well with a little of the oil of Time to mellow and soften.

Place the heart on a warm hearth with Love's rays full upon it and some of the light of other
days. Move it now and then, but do not probe it. Keep the world's cold blasts from it if possible,
but do not allow it to be absorbed in its own juices. It will take time to prepare, but when
ready is fit for king or peasant and welcome at any table.

SAUCE FOR ABOVE.

Pint or more good spirits, a few honeyed words; a little cream of society may improve, but
is not necessary. Carefully avoid cold water, vinegar, or pepper, or acidity in any form.

The above will keep for years.--S. L.

CONTENTED.--If you can live free from want, care for no more, for the rest is vanity.

A WISE MOTHER.--The celebrated Orientalist, Sir William Jones, when a mere child was very inquisitive.

TWENTY-FOUR NOTES IN ONE BOW.--The Daily Post of February 22nd, 1732, contains a curious announcement
with regard to Castrucci, the violinist, namely, that he would play a solo "in which he engages
himself to execute twenty-four notes in one bow." This piece of charlatanism, so misplaced
in a truly able musician, was excellently capped on the following day by a nameless fiddler
advertising his intention to play twenty-five notes in one bow.

A CAT STORY.--There was a favourite Tom cat owned by a family in Callander, in Scotland, and
it had on several occasions shown more than ordinary sagacity. One day Tom made off with a
piece of beef, and the servant followed him cautiously, with the intention of catching him
and administering a little wholesome correction. To her amazement, she saw the cat go into
a corner of the yard, in which she knew a rat-hole existed, and lay the beef down by the side
of it. Leaving the beef there, puss hid himself a short distance off and watched until a rat
made its appearance. Tom's tail then began to wag, and just as the rat was moving away with
the bait he sprang upon it and killed it.

HEARING WITH DIFFICULTY.--"Dr. Willis tells us," says Burney, in his "History of Music," "of
a lady who could hear only while a drum was beating; insomuch that her husband actually hired
a drummer as a servant in order to enjoy the pleasure of her conversation."

COURAGE.--Courage which grows from constitution often forsakes people when they have occasion
for it; courage that arises from a sense of duty acts in a uniform manner.

THE INFLUENCE OF FORTUNE.--Fortune, good or ill, does not change men or women; it but developes
their character.

WEAK MINDS.--Two things indicate a weak mind--to be silent when it is proper to speak, and
to speak when it is proper to be silent.--Persian Proverb.

A SUCCESSFUL WEDDING.--A New York girl has just enjoyed the triumph of having the biggest wedding
given in that city for years. She whispered around that the man she was to marry had a red-haired
wife somewhere, who would be at hand to interrupt the ceremony. The church was crowded.

TWO SIDES TO PLEASURE.--Pleasure is to woman what the sun is to the flower; if modestly enjoyed
it beautifies, it refreshes and improves; if immoderately, it withers and destroys.--Colton.

AN OBSERVATION ON ROGUES.--After long experience of the world, I affirm, before God, I never
knew a rogue who was not unhappy.--Junius.

ANSWER TO DOUBLE ACROSTIC (p. 30).

 1. L i P
 2. A ristotl E (a)
 3. M a r t y R
 4. B l o c K
 5. E l I
 6. R e s i N (b)
 7. T h ur lo W
 8. S coevo l A (c)
 9. I ndicato R (d)
10. M e r a B (e)
11. N a z E
12. E clipti C
13. L o K (f)

Lambert Simnel. Perkin Warbeck.

(a). His adage was "Amicus Plato, amicus Socrates, magis tamen amica veritas." From his custom
of delivering instruction whilst walking, his disciples were styled "Peripatetics."

(b). Familiarly pronounced "rosin."

(c). Left-handed.

(d). Indicator Major, the great honeybird of South Africa.

(e). See 1 Samuel, xviii.

(f). Lo(c)k.

EDITED BY CHARLES PETERS.

