Not to compare small things with great, my taste in music is like the mighty Frederick of Prussia's
taste in painting: we are told that he frequently admired what the connoisseurs decried, and
always without any hypocrisy confessed his admiration. I am sensible that my taste in music
must be inelegant and vulgar, because people of undisputed and cultivated taste can find no
merit in my favourite tunes. Still, because I am cheaply pleased, is that any reason why I
should deny myself that pleasure? Many of our strathspeys, ancient and modern, give me most
exquisite enjoyment, where you and other judges would probably be showing disgust. For instance,
I am just now making verses for "Rothemurche's rant," an air which puts me in raptures; and,
in fact, unless I be pleased with the tune, I never can make verses to it. Here I have Clarke
on my side, who is a judge that I will pit against any of you. "Rothemurche," he says, "is
an air both original and beautiful;" and, on his recommendation, I have taken the first part
of the tune for a chorus, and the fourth or last part for the song. I am but two stanzas deep
in the work, and possibly you may think, and justly, that the poetry is as little worth your
attention as the music.

[Here follow two stanzas of the song, beginning "Lassie wi' the lint-white locks." Song CCXXXIII.]

I have begun anew, "Let me in this ae night." Do you think that we ought to retain the old
chorus? I think we must retain both the old chorus and the first stanza of the old song. I
do not altogether like the third line of the first stanza, but cannot alter it to please myself.
I am just three stanzas deep in it. Would you have the denouement to be successful or otherwise?--should
she "let him in" or not?

Did you not once propose "The sow's tail to Geordie" as an air for your work? I am quite delighted
with it; but I acknowledge that is no mark of its real excellence. I once set about verses
for it, which I meant to be in the alternate way of a lover and his mistress chanting together.
I have not the pleasure of knowing Mrs. Thomson's Christian name, and yours, I am afraid, is
rather burlesque for sentiment, else I had meant to have made you the hero and heroine of the
little piece.

How do you like the following epigram which I wrote the other day on a lovely young girl's
recovery from a fever? Doctor Maxwell was the physician who seemingly saved her from the grave;
and to him I address the following:

TO DR. MAXWELL,

ON MISS JESSIE STAIG'S RECOVERY.

    Maxwell, if merit here you crave,
      That merit I deny:
    You save fair Jessy from the grave?--
      An angel could not die!

God grant you patience with this stupid epistle!

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 260: Song CCXXVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

    How long and dreary is the night, &c.[262]

Tell me how you like this. I differ from your idea of the expression of the tune. There is,
to me, a great deal of tenderness in it. You cannot, in my opinion, dispense with a bass to
your addenda airs.

I enclose you a musical curiosity, an East Indian air, which you would swear was a Scottish
one. I know the authenticity of it, as the gentleman who brought it over is a particular acquaintance
of mine. Do preserve me the copy I send you, as it is the only one I have. Clarke has set a
bass to it, and I intend putting it into the Musical Museum. Here follow the verses I intend
for it.

VARIATION.

        When frae my Chloris parted,
        Sad, cheerless, broken-hearted,
    The night's gloomy shades, cloudy, dark, o'ercast my sky.
        But when she charms my sight,
        In pride of beauty's light;
        When through my very heart
        Her beaming glories dart;
    'Tis then, 'tis then I wake to life and joy!

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 261: Song CCXXVII.]

[Footnote 262: Song CCXXVIII.]

[Footnote 263: Mr. Ritson, whose collection of Scottish songs was published this year.]

[Footnote 264: Song CCXXIX.]

[Footnote 265: Song CCXXX.]

[Footnote 266: Song CCXVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

Despairing of my own powers to give you variety enough in English songs, I have been turning
over old collections, to pick out songs, of which the measure is something similar to what
I want; and, with a little alteration, so as to suit the rhythm of the air exactly, to give
you them for your work. Where the songs have hitherto been but little noticed, nor have ever
been set to music, I think the shift a fair one. A song, which, under the same first verse,
you will find in Ramsay's Tea-table Miscellany, I have cut down for an English dress to your
"Dainty Davie," as follows:--

    It was the charming month of May.[268]

You may think meanly of this, but take a look at the bombast original, and you will be surprised
that I have made so much of it. I have finished my song to "Rothemurche's rant," and you have
Clarke to consult as to the set of the air for singing.

    Lassie wi' the lint-white locks, &c.[269]

This piece has at least the merit of being a regular pastoral: the vernal morn, the summer
noon, the autumnal evening, and the winter night, are regularly rounded. If you like it, well;
if not, I will insert it in the Museum.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 267: Song CCXXXI.]

[Footnote 268: Song CCXXXII.]

[Footnote 269: Song CCXXXIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

I thank you for admitting "Craigieburn-wood;" and I shall take care to furnish you with a new
chorus. In fact, the chorus was not my work, but a part of some old verses to the air. If I
can catch myself in a more than ordinarily propitious moment, I shall write a new "Craigieburn-wood"
altogether. My heart is much in the theme.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 270: Song CCXXXIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Willy and Phely, in one of the lyrics which this letter contained, carry on the pleasant bandying
of praise till compliments grow scarce, and the lovers are reduced to silence.]

19th November, 1794.

You see, my dear Sir, what a punctual correspondent I am; though, indeed, you may thank yourself
for the tedium of my letters, as you have so flattered me on my horsemanship with my favourite
hobby, and have praised the grace of his ambling so much, that I am scarcely ever off his back.
For instance, this morning, though a keen blowing frost, in my walk before breakfast, I finished
my duet, which you were pleased to praise so much. Whether I have uniformly succeeded, I will
not say; but here it is for you, though it is not an hour old.

    O Philly, happy be the day.[271]

Tell me honestly how you like it, and point out whatever you think faulty.

I am much pleased with your idea of singing our songs in alternate stanzas, and regret that
you did not hint it to me sooner. In those that remain, I shall have it in my eye. I remember
your objections to the name Philly, but it is the common abbreviation of Phillis. Sally, the
only other name that suits, has to my ear a vulgarity about it, which unfits it, for anything
except burlesque. The legion of Scottish poetasters of the day, whom your brother editor, Mr.
Ritson, ranks with me as my coevals, have always mistaken vulgarity for simplicity; whereas,
simplicity is as much eloignée from vulgarity on the one hand, as from affected point and puerile
conceit on the other.

I agree with you as to the air, "Craigieburn-wood," that a chorus would, in some degree, spoil
the effect, and shall certainly have none in my projected song to it. It is not, however, a
case in point with "Rothemurche;" there, as in "Roy's Wife of Aldivalloch," a chorus goes,
to my taste, well enough. As to the chorus going first, that is the case with "Roy's Wife,"
as well as "Rothemurche." In fact, in the first part of both tunes, the rhythm is so peculiar
and irregular, and on that irregularity depends so much of their beauty, that we must e'en
take them with all their wildness, and humour the verse accordingly. Leaving out the starting
note in both tunes, has, I think, an effect that no regularity could counterbalance the want of.

     Try,         {Oh Roy's wife of Aldivalloch.

Does not the lameness of the prefixed syllable strike you? In the last case, with the true
furor of genius, you strike at once into the wild originality of the air; whereas, in the first
insipid method, it is like the grating screw of the pins before the fiddle is brought into
tune. This is my taste; if I am wrong, I beg pardon of the cognoscenti.

"The Caledonian Hunt" is so charming, that it would make any subject in a song go down; but
pathos is certainly its native tongue. Scottish bacchanalians we certainly want, though the
few we have are excellent. For instance, "Todlin hame," is, for wit and humour, an unparalleled
composition; And "Andrew and his cutty gun" is the work of a master. It has given me many a
heart-ache. Apropos to bacchanalian songs in Scottish, I composed one yesterday, for an air
I like much--"Lumps o' pudding."

Contented wi' little and cantie wi' mair.[272]

If you do not relish this air, I will send it to Johnson.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 271: Song CCXXXV.]

[Footnote 272: Song CCXXXVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCVI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The instrument which the poet got from the braes of Athol, seems of an order as rude and incapable
of fine sounds as the whistles which school-boys make in spring from the smaller boughs of
the plane-tree.]

Since yesterday's penmanship, I have framed a couple of English stanzas, by way of an English
song to "Roy's Wife." You will allow me, that in this instance my English corresponds in sentiment
with the Scottish.

    Canst thou leave me thus, my Katy?[273]

Well! I think this, to be done in two or three turns across my room, and with two or three
pinches of Irish blackguard, is not so far amiss. You see I am determined to have my quantum
of applause from somebody.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 273: Song CCXXXVII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCVII.

TO PETER MILLER, JUN., ESQ.,

OF DALSWINTON.

TO MR. SAMUEL CLARKE, JUN.,

DUMFRIES.

[Political animosities troubled society during the days of Burns, as much at least as they
disturb it now--this letter is an instance of it.]

Sunday Morning.

DEAR SIR,

I was, I know, drunk last night, but I am sober this morning. From the expressions Capt. ----
made use of to me, had I had no-body's welfare to care for but my own, we should certainly
have come, according to the manners of the world, to the necessity of murdering one another
about the business. The words were such as, generally, I believe, end in a brace of pistols;
but I am still pleased to think that I did not ruin the peace and welfare of a wife and a family
of children in a drunken squabble. Farther, you know that the report of certain political opinions
being mine, has already once before brought me to the brink of destruction. I dread lest last
night's business may be misrepresented in the same way.--You, I beg, will take care to prevent
it. I tax your wish for Mr. Burns' welfare with the task of waiting as soon as possible, on
every gentleman who was present, and state this to him, and, as you please, show him this letter.
What, after all, was the obnoxious toast? "May our success in the present war be equal to the
justice of our cause."--A toast that the most outrageous frenzy of loyalty cannot object to.
I request and beg that this morning you will wait on the parties present at the foolish dispute.
I shall only add, that I am truly sorry that a man who stood so high in my estimation as Mr.
----, should use me in the manner in which I conceive he has done.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCIX.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Burns allowed for the songs which Wolcot wrote for Thomson a degree of lyric merit which the
world has refused to sanction.]

December, 1794.

It is, I assure you, the pride of my heart to do anything to forward or add to the value of
your book; and as I agree with you that the jacobite song in the Museum to "There'll never
be peace till Jamie comes hame," would not so well consort with Peter Pindar's excellent love-song
to that air, I have just framed for you the following:--

    Now in her green mantle, &c.[274]

How does this please you? As to the point of time for the expression, in your proposed print
from my "Sodger's Return," it must certainly be at--"She gaz'd." The interesting dubiety and
suspense taking possession of her countenance, and the gushing fondness, with a mixture of
roguish playfulness, in his, strike me as things of which a master will make a great deal.
In great haste, but in great truth, yours,

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 274: Song CCXXXVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCX.

TO MR. THOMSON. How will the following do for "Craigieburn-wood?"--

    Sweet fa's the eve on Craigieburn.[276]

Farewell! God bless you!

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 275: Song CCLXIV.]

[Footnote 276: Song CCXLV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The song of Caledonia, in honour of Mrs. Burns, was accompanied by two others in honour of
the poet's mistress: the muse was high in song, and used few words in the letter which enclosed
them.]

May, 1795.

    O stay, sweet warbling woodlark, stay![277]

Let me know, your very first leisure, how you like this song.

    Long, long the night.[278]

How do you like the foregoing? The Irish air, "Humours of Glen," is a great favourite of mine,
and as, except the silly stuff in the "Poor Soldier," there are not any decent verses for it,
I have written for it as follows:--

    Their groves o' sweet myrtle let foreign lands reckon.[279]

Let me hear from you.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 277: Song CCXLIX.]

[Footnote 278: Song CCL.]

[Footnote 279: Song CCLI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXIII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[The poet calls for praise in this letter, a species of coin which is always ready.]

      How cruel are the parents.[280]

    Mark yonder pomp of costly fashion.[281]

Well, this is not amiss. You see how I answer your orders--your tailor could not be more punctual.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 280: Song CCLIII.]

[Footnote 281: Song CCLIV.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXIV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Thomson at this time sent the drawing to Burns in which David Allan sought to embody the "Cotter's
Saturday Night:" it displays at once the talent and want of taste of the ingenious artist.]

May, 1795.

Ten thousand thanks for your elegant present--though I am ashamed of the value of it, being
bestowed on a man who has not, by any means, merited such an instance of kindness. I have shown
it to two or three judges of the first abilities here, and they all agree with me in classing
it as a first-rate production. My phiz is sae kenspeckle, that the very joiner's apprentice,
whom Mrs. Burns employed to break up the parcel (I was out of town that day) knew it at once.
My most grateful compliments to Allan, who has honoured my rustic music so much with his masterly
pencil. One strange coincidence is, that the little one who is making the felonious attempt
on the cat's tail, is the most striking likeness of an ill-deedie, d--n'd, wee, rumblegairie
urchin of mine, whom from that propensity to witty wickedness, and man-fu' mischief, which,
even at twa days auld, I foresaw would form the striking features of his disposition, I named
Willie Nicol, after a certain friend of mine, who is one of the masters of a grammar-school
in a city which shall be nameless.

Give the enclosed epigram to my much-valued friend Cunningham, and tell him, that on Wednesday
I go to visit a friend of his, to whom his friendly partiality in speaking of me in a manner
introduced me--I mean a well-known military and literary character, Colonel Dirom.

You do not tell me how you liked my two last songs. Are they condemned?

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXV.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[In allusion to the preceding letter, Thomson says to Burns, "You really make me blush when
you tell me you have not merited the drawing from me." The "For a' that and a' that," which
went with this letter, was, it is believed, the composition of Mrs. Riddel.]

In "Whistle, and I'll come to ye, my lad," the iteration of that line is tiresome to my ear.

In fact, a fair dame, at whose shrine I, the priest of the Nine, offer up the incense of Parnassus--a
dame whom the Graces have attired in witchcraft, and whom the Loves have armed with lightning--a
fair one, herself the heroine of the song, insists on the amendment, and dispute her commands
if you dare?

    This is no my ain lassie,[282] &c.

Do you know that you have roused the torpidity of Clarke at last? He has requested me to write
three or four songs for him, which he is to set to music himself. The enclosed sheet contains
two songs for him, which please to present to my valued friend Cunningham.

I enclose the sheet open, both for your inspection, and that you may copy the song "Oh bonnie
was yon rosy brier." I do not know whether I am right, but that song pleases me; and as it
is extremely probable that Clarke's newly-roused celestial spark will be soon smothered in
the fogs of indolence, if you like the song, it may go as Scottish verses to the air of "I
wish my love was in a mire;" and poor Erskine's English lines may follow.

I enclose you a "For a' that and a' that," which was never in print: it is a much superior
song to mine. I have been told that it was composed by a lady, and some lines written on the
blank leaf of a copy of the last edition of my poems, presented to the lady whom, in so many
fictitious reveries of passion, but with the most ardent sentiments of real friendship, I have
so often sung under the name of Chloris:--

To Chloris.[283]

    Une bagatelle de l'amitié.

COILA.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 282: Song CCLV.]

[Footnote 283: Poems, No. CXLVI.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXVI.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[In the double service of poesy and music the poet had to sing of pangs which he never endured,
from beauties to whom he had never spoken.]

    FORLORN my love, no comfort near, &c.[284]

How do you like the foregoing? I have written it within this hour: so much for the speed of
my Pegasus; but what say you to his bottom?

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 284: Song CCLVIII.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXVII.

TO MR. THOMSON.

I am at present quite occupied with the charming sensations of the toothache, so have not a
word to spare.

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 285: Song CCLIX.]

[Footnote 286: Song CCLX.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXVIII.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

Supposes himself to be writing from the dead to the living.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXIX.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

[Mrs. Riddel, it is said, possessed many more of the poet's letters than are printed--she sometimes
read them to friends who could feel their wit, and, like herself, make allowance for their
freedom.]

Dumfries, 1795.

Mr. Burns's compliments to Mrs. Riddel--is much obliged to her for her polite attention in
sending him the book. Owing to Mr. B.'s being at present acting as supervisor of excise, a
department that occupies his every hour of the day, he has not that time to spare which is
necessary for any belle-lettre pursuit; but, as he will, in a week or two, again return to
his wonted leisure, he will then pay that attention to Mrs. R.'s beautiful song, "To thee,
loved Nith"--which it so well deserves. When "Anacharsis' Travels" come to hand, which Mrs.
Riddel mentioned as her gift to the public library, Mr. B. will thank her for a reading of
it previous to her sending it to the library, as it is a book Mr. B. has never seen: he wishes
to have a longer perusal of them than the regulations of the library allow.

Friday Eve.

P.S. Mr. Burns will be much obliged to Mrs. Riddel if she will favour him with a perusal of
any of her poetical pieces which he may not have seen.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXX.

TO MISS LOUISA FONTENELLE.

[That Miss Fontenelle, as an actress, did not deserve the high praise which Burns bestows may
be guessed: the lines to which he alludes were recited by the lady on her benefit-night, and
are printed among his Poems.]

Dumfries, December, 1795.

MADAM,

In such a bad world as ours, those who add to the scanty sum of our pleasures, are positively
our benefactors. To you, Madam, on our humble Dumfries boards, I have been more indebted for
entertainment than ever I was in prouder theatres. Your charms as a woman would insure applause
to the most indifferent actress, and your theatrical talents would insure admiration to the
plainest figure. This, Madam, is not the unmeaning or insidious compliment of the frivolous
or interested; I pay it from the same honest impulse that the sublime of nature excites my
admiration, or her beauties give me delight.

Will the foregoing lines be of any service to you in your approaching benefit-night? If they
will I shall be prouder of my muse than ever. They are nearly extempore: I know they have no
great merit; but though they should add but little to the entertainment of the evening, they
give me the happiness of an opportunity to declare how much I have the honour to be, &c.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXI.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

We have had a brilliant theatre here this season; only, as all other business does, it experiences
a stagnation of trade from the epidemical complaint of the country, want of cash. I mentioned
our theatre merely to lug in an occasional Address which I wrote for the benefit-night of one
of the actresses, and which is as follows:--

ADDRESS,

SPOKEN BY MISS FONTENELLE ON HER BENEFIT-NIGHT, DEC. 4, 1795, AT THE THEATRE, DUMFRIES.

I have lately collected, for a friend's perusal, all my letters; I mean those which I first
sketched, in a rough draught, and afterwards wrote out fair. On looking over some old musty
papers, which, from time to time, I had parcelled by, as trash that were scarce worth preserving,
and which yet at the same time I did not care to destroy; I discovered many of these rude sketches,
and have written, and am writing them out, in a bound MS. for my friend's library. As I wrote
always to you the rhapsody of the moment, I cannot find a single scroll to you, except one
about the commencement of our acquaintance. If there were any possible conveyance, I would
send you a perusal of my book.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXII.

TO MR. ALEXANDER FINDLATER,

SUPERVISOR OF EXCISE, DUMFRIES.

[The person to whom this letter is addressed, is the same who lately denied that Burns was
harshly used by the Board of Excise: but those, and they are many, who believe what the poet
wrote to Erskine, of Mar, cannot agree with Mr. Findlater.]

SIR,

Enclosed are the two schemes. I would not have troubled you with the collector's one, but for
suspicion lest it be not right. Mr. Erskine promised me to make it right, if you will have
the goodness to show him how. As I have no copy of the scheme for myself, and the alterations
being very considerable from what it was formerly, I hope that I shall have access to this
scheme I send you, when I come to face up my new books. So much for schemes.--And that no scheme
to betray a FRIEND, or mislead a STRANGER; to seduce a YOUNG GIRL, or rob a HEN-ROOST; to subvert
LIBERTY, or bribe an EXCISEMAN; to disturb the GENERAL ASSEMBLY, or annoy a GOSSIPPING; to
overthrow the credit of ORTHODOXY, or the authority of OLD SONGS; to oppose your wishes, or
frustrate my hopes--MAY PROSPER--is the sincere wish and prayer of

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXIII.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE MORNING CHRONICLE.

[Cromek says, when a neighbour complained that his copy of the Morning Chronicle was not regularly
delivered to him from the post-office, the poet wrote the following indignant letter to Perry
on a leaf of his excise-book, but before it went to the post he reflected and recalled it.]

Dumfries, 1795.

SIR,

You will see by your subscribers' list, that I have been about nine months of that number.

I am sorry to inform you, that in that time, seven or eight of your papers either have never
been sent to me, or else have never reached me. To be deprived of any one number of the first
newspaper in Great Britain for information, ability, and independence, is what I can ill brook
and bear; but to be deprived of that most admirable oration of the Marquis of Lansdowne, when
he made the great though ineffectual attempt (in the language of the poet, I fear too true),
"to save a SINKING STATE"--this was a loss that I neither can nor will forgive you.--That paper,
Sir, never reached me; but I demand it of you. I am a BRITON; and must be interested in the
cause of LIBERTY:--I am a MAN; and the RIGHTS of HUMAN NATURE cannot be indifferent to me.
However, do not let me mislead you: I am not a man in that situation of life, which, as your
subscriber, can be of any consequence to you, in the eyes of those to whom SITUATION OF LIFE
ALONE is the criterion of MAN.--I am but a plain tradesman, in this distant, obscure country
town: but that humble domicile in which I shelter my wife and children is the CASTELLUM of
a BRITON; and that scanty, hard-earned income which supports them is as truly my property,
as the most magnificent fortune, of the most PUISSANT MEMBER of your HOUSE of NOBLES.

These, Sir, are my sentiments; and to them I subscribe my name: and were I a man of ability
and consequence enough to address the PUBLIC, with that name should they appear.

I am, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXIV.

TO MR. HERON,

OF HERON.

[Of Patrick Heron, of Kerroughtree, something has been said in the notes on the Ballads which
bear his name.]

Dumfries, 1794, or 1795.

SIR,

I enclose you some copies of a couple of political ballads; one of which, I believe, you have
never seen. Would to Heaven I could make you master of as many votes in the Stewartry--but--

              "Who does the utmost that he can,
    Does well, acts nobly, angels could no more."

In order to bring my humble efforts to bear with more effect on the foe, I have privately printed
a good many copies of both ballads, and have sent them among friends all about the country.

To pillory on Parnassus the rank reprobation of character, the utter dereliction of all principle,
in a profligate junto which has not only outraged virtue, but violated common decency; which,
spurning even hypocrisy as paltry iniquity below their daring;--to unmask their flagitiousness
to the broadest day--to deliver such over to their merited fate, is surely not merely innocent,
but laudable; is not only propriety, but virtue.

I am extremely obliged to you for your kind mention of my interests in a letter which Mr. Syme
showed me. At present my situation in life must be in a great measure stationary, at least
for two or three years. The statement is this--I am on the supervisors' list, and as we come
on there by precedency, in two or three years I shall be at the head of that list, and be appointed
of course. Then, a FRIEND might be of service to me in getting me into a place of the kingdom
which I would like. A supervisor's income varies from about a hundred and twenty to two hundred
a year; but the business is an incessant drudgery, and would be nearly a complete bar to every
species of literary pursuit. The moment I am appointed supervisor, in the common routine, I
may be nominated on the collector's list; and this is always a business purely of political
patronage. A collector-ship varies much, from better than two hundred a year to near a thousand.
They also come forward by precedency on the list; and have, besides a handsome income, a life
of complete leisure. A life of literary leisure with a decent competency, is the summit of
my wishes. It would be the prudish affectation of silly pride in me to say that I do not need,
or would not be indebted to a political friend; at the same time, Sir, I by no means lay my
affairs before you thus, to hook my dependent situation on your benevolence. If, in my progress
of life, an opening should occur where the good offices of a gentleman of your public character
and political consequence might bring me forward, I shall petition your goodness with the same
frankness as I now do myself the honour to subscribe myself

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXV.

TO MRS. DUNLOP,

IN LONDON.

[In the correspondence of the poet with Mrs. Dunlop he rarely mentions Thomson's Collection
of Songs, though his heart was set much upon it: in the Dunlop library there are many letters
from the poet, it is said, which have not been published.]

Dumfries, 20th December, 1795.

I have been prodigiously disappointed in this London journey of yours. In the first place,
when your last to me reached Dumfries, I was in the country, and did not return until too late
to answer your letter; in the next place, I thought you would certainly take this route; and
now I know not what is become of you, or whether this may reach you at all. God grant that
it may find you and yours in prospering health and good spirits!

January 12th.

You will have seen our worthy and ingenious friend, the Doctor, long ere this. I hope he is
well, and beg to be remembered to him. I have just been reading over again, I dare say for
the hundred and fiftieth time, his View of Society and Manners; and still I read it with delight.
His humour is perfectly original--it is neither the humour of Addison, nor Swift, nor Sterne,
nor of anybody but Dr. Moore. By the bye, you have deprived me of Zeluco, remember that, when
you are disposed to rake up the sins of my neglect from among the ashes of my laziness.

He has paid me a pretty compliment, by quoting me in his last publication.[287]

       *       *       *       *       *

R. B.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 287: Edward.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXVI.

ADDRESS OF THE SCOTCH DISTILLERS

TO THE RIGHT HON. WILLIAM PITT.

[This ironical letter to the prime minister was found among the papers of Burns.]

SIR,

While pursy burgesses crowd your gate, sweating under the weight of heavy addresses, permit
us, the quondam distillers in that part of Great Britain called Scotland, to approach you,
not with venal approbation, but with fraternal condolence; not as what you are just now, or
for some time have been; but as what, in all probability, you will shortly be.--We shall have
the merit of not deserting our friends in the day of their calamity, and you will have the
satisfaction of perusing at least one honest address. You are well acquainted with the dissection
of human nature; nor do you need the assistance of a fellow-creature's bosom to inform you,
that man is always a selfish, often a perfidious being.--This assertion, however the hasty
conclusions of superficial observation may doubt of it, or the raw inexperience of youth may
deny it, those who make the fatal experiment we have done, will feel.--You are a statesman,
and consequently are not ignorant of the traffic of these corporation compliments--The little
great man who drives the borough to market, and the very great man who buys the borough in
that market, they two do the whole business; and you well know they, likewise, have their price.
With that sullen disdain which you can so well assume, rise, illustrious Sir, and spurn these
hireling efforts of venal stupidity. At best they are the compliments of a man's friends on
the morning of his execution: they take a decent farewell, resign you to your fate, and hurry
away from your approaching hour.

If fame say true, and omens be not very much mistaken, you are about to make your exit from
that world where the sun of gladness gilds the paths of prosperous man: permit us, great Sir,
with the sympathy of fellow-feeling to hail your passage to the realms of ruin.

Whether the sentiment proceed from the selfishness or cowardice of mankind is immaterial; but
to point out to a child of misfortune those who are still more unhappy, is to give him some
degree of positive enjoyment. In this light, Sir, our downfall may be again useful to you:--though
not exactly in the same way, it is not perhaps the first time it has gratified your feelings.
It is true, the triumph of your evil star is exceedingly despiteful.--At an age when others
are the votaries of pleasure, or underlings in business, you had attained the highest wish
of a British statesman; and with the ordinary date of human life, what a prospect was before
you! Deeply rooted in Royal favour, you overshadowed the land. The birds of passage, which
follow ministerial sunshine through every clime of political faith and manners, flocked to
your branches; and the beasts of the field (the lordly possessors of hills and valleys) crowded
under your shade. A blow from an unthought-of quarter, one of those terrible accidents which
peculiarly mark the hand of Omnipotence, overset your career, and laid all your fancied honours
in the dust. But turn your eyes, Sir, to the tragic scenes of our fate:--an ancient nation,
that for many ages had gallantly maintained the unequal struggle for independence with her
much more powerful neighbour, at last agrees to a union which should ever after make them one
people. In consideration of certain circumstances, it was covenanted that the former should
enjoy a stipulated alleviation in her share of the public burdens, particularly in that branch
of the revenue called the Excise. This just privilege has of late given great umbrage to some
interested, powerful individuals of the more potent part of the empire, and they have spared
no wicked pains, under insidious pretexts, to subvert what they dared not openly to attack,
from the dread which they yet entertained of the spirit of their ancient enemies.

In this conspiracy we fell; nor did we alone suffer, our country was deeply wounded. A number
of (we will say) respectable individuals, largely engaged in trade, where we were not only
useful, but absolutely necessary to our country in her dearest interests; we, with all that
was near and dear to us, were sacrificed without remorse, to the infernal deity of political
expediency! We fell to gratify the wishes of dark envy, and the views of unprincipled ambition!
Your foes, Sir, were avowed; were too brave to take an ungenerous advantage; you fell in the
face of day.--On the contrary, our enemies, to complete our overthrow, contrived to make their
guilt appear the villany of a nation.--Your downfall only drags with you your private friends
and partisans: in our misery are more or less involved the most numerous and most valuable
part of the community--all those who immediately depend on the cultivation of the soil, from
the landlord of a province, down to his lowest hind.

Allow us, Sir, yet further, just to hint at another rich vein of comfort in the dreary regions
of adversity;--the gratulations of an approving conscience. In a certain great assembly, of
which you are a distinguished member, panegyrics on your private virtues have so often wounded
your delicacy, that we shall not distress you with anything on the subject. There is, however,
one part of your public conduct which our feelings will not permit us to pass in silence: our
gratitude must trespass on your modesty; we mean, worthy Sir, your whole behaviour to the Scots
Distillers.--In evil hours, when obtrusive recollection presses bitterly on the sense, let
that, Sir, come like an healing angel, and speak the peace to your soul which the world can
neither give nor take away.

We have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your sympathizing fellow-sufferers,

And grateful humble servants,

JOHN BARLEYCORN--Præses.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXVII.

TO THE HON. PROVOST, BAILIES, AND

TOWN COUNCIL OF DUMFRIES.

TO MRS. RIDDEL.

[Mrs. Riddel was, like Burns, a well-wisher to the great cause of human liberty, and lamented
with him the excesses of the French Revolution.]

Dumfries, 20th January, 1796.

I cannot express my gratitude to you, for allowing me a longer perusal of "Anacharsis." In
fact, I never met with a book that bewitched me so much; and I, as a member of the library,
must warmly feel the obligation you have laid us under. Indeed to me the obligation is stronger
than to any other individual of our society; as "Anacharsis" is an indispensable desideratum
to a son of the muses.

The health you wished me in your morning's card, is, I think, flown from me for ever. I have
not been able to leave my bed to-day till about an hour ago. These wickedly unlucky advertisements
I lent (I did wrong) to a friend, and I am ill able to go in quest of him.

The muses have not quite forsaken me. The following detached stanza I intend to interweave
in some disastrous tale of a shepherd.

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXIX.

TO MRS. DUNLOP.

    "When pleasure fascinates the mental sight,
      Affliction purifies the visual ray,
    Religion hails the drear, the untried night,
      And shuts, for ever shuts! life's doubtful day."

R. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

CCCXXX.

TO MR. THOMSON.

[Cromek informed me, on the authority of Mrs. Burns, that the "handsome, elegant present" mentioned
in this letter, was a common worsted shawl.]

February, 1796.

Many thanks, my dear Sir, for your handsome, elegant present to Mrs. Burns, and for my remaining
volume of P. Pindar. Peter is a delightful fellow, and a first favourite of mine. I am much
pleased with your idea of publishing a collection of our songs in octavo, with etchings. I
am extremely willing to lend every assistance in my power. The Irish airs I shall cheerfully
undertake the task of finding verses for.

I have already, you know, equipt three with words, and the other day I strung up a kind of
rhapsody to another Hibernian melody, which I admire much.

    Awa' wi' your witchcraft o' beauty's alarms.[288]

