"Glasgow took up the weapon which Edinburgh dropped. A newspaper appeared in the former city
as the avowed defender of the cause and assailant of the persons previously upheld and attacked
by the defunct Edinburgh journal. The Sentinel, as the Glasgow paper was called, would hold
his ground though the Beacon was put out. It is much easier to bequeath hatred and rancor than
to communicate talent and genius. The Sentinel was abusive and licentious enough, but it had
little to recommend it on the score of ability. The Beacon had made a personal attack upon
Mr. Stuart, a gentleman connected with some leading Whig families, and the Sentinel, in pursuance
of its vocation, fastened upon the same luckless gentleman. The libel of the Edinburgh journalist
had been arranged. Mr. Stuart found out its author, and libeller and libelled were prevented
from doing further mischief by being bound over to keep the peace. To keep the peace, however,
in those days was to be wanting in the very first element of chivalry, and, accordingly, Mr.
Stuart was pronounced by the Sentinel a 'bully,' a 'coward,' a 'dastard,' and a 'sulky poltroon.'
Furthermore, he was 'a heartless ruffian,' 'a white feather,' and 'afraid of lead.' To vindicate
his character Mr. Stuart raised an action of damages, and, curiously enough, he was twitted
in the very court of justice to which he appealed for protection, for not having recourse to
the hostile measure which in his despair he at last adopted, and for pursuing which he was
tried for his life. Abuse went on in spite of the action of damages; Mr. Stuart finally addressed
himself to the agent for the printer of the newspaper, and the agent gave up the manuscripts
from which the libels had been printed. Mr. Stuart went to Glasgow to inspect them. He discovered
his assailant. The author of the worst calumnies against him was Sir Alexander Boswell, 'a
gentleman with whom he was somewhat related, and with whom he had never been but upon good
terms.' Mr. Stuart appealed to a friend. He called in the advice of the Earl of Roslyn, who
obtained an interview with Sir Alexander Boswell, to whom he submitted two propositions. One
was, that the baronet should deny that the calumnies were his; the other, that Sir Alexander
should confess that the libel was but a poor joke, for which he was sorry. 'I will neither
deny nor make apology,' answered Sir Alexander.

"A duel was now a matter of course. Sir Alexander left a paper behind him, confessing that
the meeting was inevitable, and Mr. Stuart made all his preparations for death. One stands
amazed in the presence of such horrible play, such terrific childishness. The parties met;
they fired together, and Sir Alexander fell. Boswell, who would not allow that he had written
a squib, proudly fired in the air; Mr. Stuart took no aim, and yet killed his man. When the
deed was done, the murderer, frantic, and 'dissolved in all the tenderness of an infant,' reproached
himself with exquisite simplicity that he had not taken aim, 'for if he had, he was certain
he would have missed him!' whilst the dying man expressed a corresponding anxiety lest 'he
had not made his fire in the air appear so decided as he could have wished.' So men speak and
act who take leave of their reason to play the fool in the high court of honor! A line tells
the rest of the history. Sir Alexander is removed from the field and taken to the house of
a friend. Mr. Stuart flies to the house of his friend, runs into a room, shuts the door, sits
down in agony of mind, and bursts into tears. In due time he is put on his trial for murder,
the jury unanimously find him Not Guilty, and Lord Chief Justice Clerk congratulates him on
the verdict, although five minutes before he had deliberately stated that 'duels are but illustrious
murders,' and that 'no false punctilio or notion of honor can vindicate an act which terminates
fatally to another fellow-creature.'"

THE LATE DR. TROOST.

We recently noticed the death of the excentric German professor, Dr. Troost, of Tennessee.
His passion for all animals of the serpent kind was well known, and we find it illustrated
in this anecdote, related by Sir Charles Lyell:

"Every thing of the serpent kind he has a particular fancy for, and has always a number of
them--that he has tamed--in his pockets or under his waistcoat. To loll back in his rocking-chair,
to talk about geology, and pat the head of a large snake, when twining itself about his neck,
is to him supreme felicity. Every year in the vacation he makes an excursion to the hills,
and I was told that, upon one of these occasions, being taken up by the stage-coach, which
had several members of Congress in it going to Washington, the learned Doctor took his seat
on the top with a large basket, the lid of which was not over and above well secured. Near
to this basket sat a Baptist preacher on his way to a great public immersion. His reverence,
awakening from a reverie he had fallen into, beheld to his unutterable horror two rattlesnakes
raise their fearful heads out of the basket, and immediately precipitated himself upon the
driver, who, almost knocked off his seat, no sooner became apprised of the character of his
ophidian outside passengers, than he jumped upon the ground with the reins in his hands, and
was followed instanter by the preacher. The 'insides,' as soon as they learned what was going
on, immediately became outsides, and nobody was left but the Doctor and his rattlesnakes on
the top. But the Doctor, not entering into the general alarm, quietly placed his greatcoat
over the basket, and tied it down with his handkerchief, which, when he had done, he said,
'Gendlemen, only don't let dese poor dings pite you, and day won't hoort you.'"

MADAME DACIER.

The husband of this celebrated woman (Andre Dacier) was born at Castres in 1651, and studied
at Saumur, under Tanneguy le Fèvre, whose daughter Anne he married in 1683. Both the husband
and wife became eminent among the classical scholars of the seventeenth century. They were
employed with others to comment upon and edit a series of the ancient authors, for the Dauphin,
which form the collection "Ad usum Delphini." Madame Dacier's commentaries are considered as
superior to those of her husband. She edited "Callimachus," "Florus," "Aurelius Victor," "Etropius,"
and the history which goes by the name of "Dictys Cretensis," all of which have been repeatedly
reprinted, with her notes. She published French translations of the "Amphitryon," "Rudens,"
and "Lepidicus," of Plautus, with a good preface, of the comedies of Terence, of the "Plutus,"
and "The Clouds," of Aristophanes, and of Anacreon and Sappho. She also translated the "Iliad"
and the "Odyssey," with a preface and notes. This led to a controversy between her and La Motte,
who had spoken slightingly of Homer. Madame Dacier wrote, in 1714, "Considérations sur les
Causes de la Corruption du Goût," in which she defended the cause of Homer with great vivacity,
as she did also against Father Hardouin, who had written an "Apology of Homer," which was more
a censure than an apology. The warmth, however, with which both the Daciers resented any thing
that was said against the ancient writers was carried to the extreme, and had, at times, something
ludicrous in it. But Madame Dacier's enthusiasm was real, and unaccompanied by pedantry or
conceit. She died in 1820.

Original Poetry.

DUTY.

BY ALFRED B. STREET.

    In changeless green, and grasping close the rock,
      Up towers the mountain pine. The Winter blast
      May like an ocean surge be on it cast;
    Proud doth it stand, and stern defy the shock,
      Unchanged in verdure and unbroke in crest,
      Although wild throes may agitate its breast,
    And clinging closer when the storm is gone,
    Tired, but unbent upon its granite throne,
    Not always doth it wrestle with the storm!
      Skies smile; spring flowers make soft its iron roots;
    Its sturdy boughs are kissed by breezes warm;
      And birds gleam in and out with joyous flutes.
    Duty proves not its strength unless defied,
    But pleasure has it, too, bright as have hearts untried.

"SOUNDS FROM HOME."

BY ALICE B. NEAL.

    Last night I dreamed of thee, beloved!
      I held that tiny hand,--
    Encircled by my clasping arm
      Once more I saw thee stand,--
    The blush so faint, yet fairly traced,
      Rose to thy changing cheek--
    As when upon thy brows were placed
      Farewells I could not speak.

    Thine eyes were filled with softened light,
      But welcomes now I read,
    As to my heart, by love's fond sight.
      I gently drew thy head;
    And oh, so eloquent were they--
      So full of earnest truth,--
    I knew what fain thy heart would say,
      The promise of thy youth.

    I knew that thou hadst faithful been
      To vows of long ago:
    That speeding time, and changing scene,
      No change in thee could show,
    That absence had but bound thy love
      More firmly to its choice--
    It needed not one word to prove,
      One sound of thy loved voice.

    Yes, silent was that long embrace,
      Though tears flowed fast and free.
    As gazing down in that dear face,
      I read thy love for me;
    And thought of all the lonely hours
      When I had wildly yearned
    To press thee thus unto my heart,
      And feel my kiss returned.

    Those midnight hours! by sea and land!
      How heavily they sped!
    Sometimes upon a surf-beat strand
      My weary feet would tread,
    And when the stars looked calmly down
      From cloudless foreign skies--
    Their soft light seemed a radiance thrown
      From these pure, earnest eyes.

    'Twas but a dream! the light breeze swept
      Soft touches o'er my brow;
    The spray's cold kiss my lips had met,
      Oh, still afar art thou!
    'Twas but a dream! and yet I heard
      Thy murmured--"Art thou come!"--
    Then woke, to feel my spirit stirred
      With these dear "sounds from home."

SCANDALOUS DANCES.

BROUGHT FROM FRENCH CASINOS TO AMERICAN PARLORS.

We have constantly reflected in our "good society" and "fashionable world" every baseness and
vulgarity that is invented outre mer, particularly in Paris. One woman returns to smoke cigars,
in a magnificent home erected by a lucky mechanic or shopkeeper, as if such an indecency had
ever been tolerated among the well-born and well-bred people of the social metropolis. Others,
copying from their probable associates abroad, introduce obscene dances, and other licentious
amusements, which for a season have baffled the police of foreign cities, and boast of their
superiority to "low prejudices." All the travelled readers of the International, except clerks,
agents, chevaliers d'industrie, and fugitives from justice, know very well that in all the
world there is a show at least of moral where there is real social elevation; that these abuses
are not anywhere tolerated among families which have kept their carriages for three generations.
But we proposed an introduction to a passage written from Paris to the most aristocratic of
the London magazines:--

"A new species of dancing, unknown to the Alberts, the Anatoles, the Brocards, the Hullins,
the Pauls, and the Noblets, has come into vogue at the Jardin Mabille, and at the Grande Chaumière,
situated on the Boulevard du Mont Parnasse, not far from the Barrière d'Enfer. This dance is
called the Cancan and the Chahut. It is unlike the waltz, the gavotte, the country dance, the
Scotch reel, the Spanish Cachucha, the Hungarian mazurka; is far worse than jota Arragonese,
or the most lascivious of Spanish dances of Andalusia. You may remember that in the early days
of Charles X. the police of Paris attempted and succeeded in putting down gross and immodest
dances; but under the reign of Louis Philippe the spirit of libertinage and dégíngandage, to
use a French term, again broke out among the class of débardeurs, and towards the close of
1845 became terrific to behold. You, who know me well, are aware that I am the last person
in the world who would seek to put an end to any innocent amusement, or who would contend that
the French people should not dance. They have always danced, and will always dance, to the
end of time. They danced under Saint Louis, under Henry IV., under Louis XIV., under Napoleon,
and why should not they dance now? There is no reason in the world why they should not dance,
if in dancing they do not shock public modesty, and offend against public decorum. In the time
of Louis XIV. there were public dances at the Moulin de Javelle; in the time of Napoleon there
were dances in the Rue Coquenard, and at the Porcherons, near the Rue St. Lazar. In the time
of Louis XVIII. and Charles X. there were dances at the Jardin de Tivoli. But at none of these
were decency outraged or morality shocked. At Tivoli, the national pastime was indulged with
decency and decorum, and although the price on entering was so low as fifteen sous with a ticket,
and thirty sous without a ticket, and albeit the dancers were chiefly of the humbler classes,
yet, I repeat, in 1827, 1828, and 1829, public decency was not shocked. But from the bal masqué
of the Théâtre des Variétés in 1831, when, towards the close of the evening the lights were
put out, and the ronde infernale was commenced, obscene and disgusting dances were becoming
more and more common in Paris, and continued to make progress till February, 1848. They had
attained the most unenviable notoriety in 1845, when at the Bal Mabille a dance was introduced
called "La Reine Pomare." Then there was the "Cancan Eccentrique," introduced by a personage
called "La Princesse de Mogador," a feigned name, as you may suppose, assumed by some fille
perdue. These dances, commenced at the Chaumière and the Bal Mabille, were also introduced
at the Bal Montesquieu, at the Bal de la Cité d'Antin, and, if I mistake not, at the Bal Valentino.
The principal performers were students in law, in medicine, in pharmacy, clerks, commis voyageurs,
profligate tradesmen, and lorettes, grisettes, et filles de basse condition.

"I must do the Provisional Government, so much abused, the justice to say, that towards the
close of 1848, when these disgusting dances were again revived, the Gardiens de Paris interfered,
and proceeded to clear the room if they were persevered in. If this had been done in 1845 and
1846 by that austere minister, who so much boasted of his independence and morality, events
might have taken a different turn. But it is now too late to speculate, and it is easy to be
wise after the event. But M. Guizot, his préfet de police, and the members of the Government,
were warned long before 1845-6 of the profound immorality and indecency of these dances, and
they made no effort to put a stop to them. It is because these scandals are now in a course
of revival that I advert to this matter at such length. The subject is worthy the attention
of M. Carlier, the Préfet of Police, and of wiser heads than M. Carlier. "Selon qu'il est conduit,"
said Richelieu, and he knew his nation well; "Selon qu'il est conduit le peuple Français est
capable de tout." I am no enemy of innocent recreation, as you are well aware, or of harmless,
convivial, social, or saltatory enjoyment. But if lasciviousness, obscenity, or des saletés
be tolerated in public places, a blow is struck at the very foundations of society. I may not,
even in a letter, enter into a minute description of these dances. Suffice it to say, they
would not be endured in England, even by women who had fallen from the paths of virtue, unless
their minds and hearts were wholly debauched. You see, after so much light gossip, I end with
a sermon--a sermon which the least strait-laced would preach under the circumstances."

THEATRICAL CRITICISM.

The following dramatic bulletin which appeared in a Dublin newspaper on the first appearance
of the celebrated Mrs. Siddons in that city, is quite as good a critique and as free from blunders,
as some which have appeared in our own journals more recently:--

"On Saturday, May 30, 1784, Mrs. Siddons, about whom all the world has been talking, exposed
her beautiful, adamantine, soft and lovely person for the first time, at the Smock Alley Theatre,
in the bewitching, tearful, and all melting character of Isabella. From the repeated panegyrics
in the impartial London newspapers, we were taught to expect the sight of a heavenly angel;
but how were we supernaturally surprised into the most awful joy at beholding a mortal goddess.
The house was crowded with hundreds more than it could hold--with thousands of admiring spectators
who went away without obtaining a sight. This extraordinary phenomenon of tragic excellence!
this star of Melpomene! this comet of the stage! this sun in the firmament of the muses! this
moon of blank verse! this queen and princess of tears! this Donellan of the poisoned bowl!
this empress of the pistol and dagger! this chaos of Shakspeare! this world of weeping clouds!
this Terpsichore of the curtains and scenes! this Proserpine of fire and earthquake! this Katterfelto
of wonders! exceeded expectation, went beyond belief, and soared above all the natural powers
of description! she was nature itself! she was the most exquisite work of art! she was the
very daisy, primrose, tube rose, sweet-briar, furze blossom, gilliflower, wall-flower, cauliflower
and rosemary! in short she was a bouquet of Parnassus. Where expectation was raised so high,
it was thought she would be injured by her appearance; but it was the audience who were injured--several
of them fainted before the curtain was drawn up.

"When she came to the scene of parting with her wedding ring, ah! what a sight was there! The
very fiddlers in the orchestra, albeit unused to the melting mood, blubbered like hungry children
crying for their bread and butter; and when the bell rang for music between the acts, the tears
fell from the bassoon player's eyes in such plentiful showers that they choked the finger stops;
and making a spout of that instrument, poured in such torrents on the first fiddler's book,
that, not seeing the overture was in two sharps, the leader of the band actually played in
one flat. But the sobs and sighs of the groaning audience, and the noise of cork drawing from
the smelling bottles, prevented the mistakes between flats and sharps being discovered.

"One hundred and nine ladies fainted, forty-six went into fits, and ninety-five had strong
hysterics! The world will hardly credit the truth, when they are told that fourteen children,
five women, one hundred tailors and six common councilmen were actually drowned in the inundation
of tears that flowed from the galleries, the slips and the boxes, to increase the briny pond
in the pit; the water was three feet deep, and the people that were obliged to stand upon the
benches, were, in that position, up to their ankles in tears!

"An act of parliament against her playing any more, will certainly pass."

THE FRENCH GENERALS OF TO-DAY.

A clever writer in Fraser's Magazine, dating at Paris, writes:--

"Of Changarnier I shall not say much. He is as taciturn as M. L. N. Bonaparte, et possede un
grand talent pour le silence. Changarnier is a man of great nerve and energy, and is perfectly
up to street warfare and to the management of the unruly Parisian population. He is popular
with the soldiery and with the higher officers. As to his having any decided political opinions
to which he would become a martyr, I don't believe a word of it. He wishes to preserve order,
and to save France from anarchy; but, apart from this, would be guided by his personal interests.
If royalty, hereditary or elective, become the order of the day--not a very likely occurrence
within two or three years--he would adjust himself to the national arrangement on the best
terms, and throw his sword into the scale that kicked the beam. But if the game of a president
is to be played for in 1852 and 1856, Changarnier may put forward his own pretensions, as,
at heart, he has neither love nor reverence for the Tenth of December. In the event of a war,
however, Changarnier is more likely to look to the highest command, in which he might win the
marshal's bâton, and thus become still more important, personally, professionally, and politically.
Military men, more especially of the African school, seem to allow that Changarnier possesses
a rare combination of military qualities. Decision, energy, bravery, and the coup d'oeil, he
exhibits in the highest degree; but he is, on the other hand, wholly without civil talents.
He is no orator, no speaker even, and seems to entertain as great a contempt for ideologues
and deliberative assemblies as Napoleon himself. If Changarnier were ever invested with supreme
power, it would go hard, so far as he was concerned, with the constitution and liberties of
France."

There is in no country a more honorable, high-principled, and conscientious soldier than Cavaignac.
Of all the men produced by the Revolution of 1848 (Lamartine and Dufaure were known as political
men before), Cavaignac appears the most single-minded, honorable, and conscientious. Though
a Republican pur sang, he yet rendered more important services to order in June, 1848, than
any one of the Moderates, Royalists, or Burgraves, or generals of order, or than all of them
together. It is significant that Cavaignac has openly declared to his friends--indeed, under
his hand, that he will not support the candidature of Louis Napoleon, should he present himself
in 1852, or become a party to any head of the Constitution.

Lamoricière is, as a man and as a general, of infinite talent, and of brilliant courage. He
is a good man of business, a brilliant speaker, and certainly has carried himself as a public
character with independence and honor.

Bedeau is a general of very considerable literary and scientific talents, and perhaps of higher
attainments in his profession than any other of the generals of the African school; but he
is said to be deficient in energy, and unresolved, and of late he seems to be less thought
of as a man of action than as an organizer and administrator. In the event of a war, it is
likely the four men I speak of will play brilliant parts; and in civil affairs, it is possible,
if not certain, that a great part may be reserved for Cavaignac.

WILLIAM PENN AND MACAULAY.

We find in the London Times a reviewal of Mr. Forster's "Observations on the Charges made in
Mr. Macaulay's History of England against the Character of William Penn," and transfer it to
these pages, as likely to be not less interesting to Americans than to Englishmen, since Penn's
name is most intimately connected with the history of this country. The book reviewed has been
republished in New-York by Mr. John Wiley.

"Mr. Macaulay will not be likely to take offence at a comparison of his history with Burnet's,
and certainly in one particular point the two productions have been attended with remarkably
similar effects. The number of historical writers and pamphleteers who were called into being
by the honest Bishop's account of his own times was astonishing. Every chapter in his narrative
created a literary antagonist, and the spirit thus called into being was really instrumental,
to a very considerable extent, in changing the whole style and tone of English history. It
is too early to predict a precisely similar issue of Mr. Macaulay's labors; but things are
certainly tending that way. There have been more discussions upon points of English history
within the last twelve months than have usually occurred in as many years. The social and political
condition of our ancestors, the motives of great acts, the characters of great men, and the
general course of our national life for the last century and a half, have of late been perpetually
brought before the public, and seldom without instructive results. It is not, of course, every
joust which yields a respectable show, but Mr. Macaulay's shield has been once or twice struck
by antagonists who have shown a title to the encounter, and one of these is now in the lists
with the pamphlet specified below.

"Mr. Forster's challenge is on behalf of the personal character and political conduct of the
famous William Penn--"the arch-Quaker," whom he conceives Mr. Macaulay to have treated with
an injustice which, if it did not result from deliberate prejudice, was at all events chargeable
to unbecoming negligence of inquiry. The cause thus asserted he defends in fifty pages of not
unreasonable argument, and supports by the liberal quotation of accepted authorities. Unfortunately,
the character of the controversy is such that it is almost impossible either to arbitrate conclusively
between the parties or to convey an adequate idea of their respective positions. Mr. Macaulay's
fashion of writing, too, makes sadly against any minute or critical investigation of his resources
or his deductions. His habit is to throw off a single complete sketch of a character or a transaction,
and at the foot of it to quote altogether the various authorities, from certain passages of
which he derived the warrant for his own several touches. By this means we are incapacitated
from closely following his observations, and we can only infer, with greater or less probability,
what particular portion of a particular authority served for the foundation of any particular
statement. To some extent this method of proceeding is inseparable from Mr. Macaulay's style,
and its obvious disadvantage must be set off against that brilliancy and effect of the general
picture which commands such universal admiration. Mr. Macaulay writes as it were from impressions.
He consults and peruses the original records of the times he is describing, and out of the
general deductions thus instinctively drawn his conception is formed. We believe this to be
the best way of arriving at general truths, but it is a practice which greatly limits the application
of ordinary tests of accuracy. Indeed, in many portions of Mr. Macaulay's history, a reader
can do little more than compare his own previous impressions of the facts and scenes described
with the impression of the writer who is describing them. Many of his descriptions are compounded
of such numerous and minute ingredients, picked here and there from such a variety of quarters,
that they can only be verified by a similar process to that in which they originated. A signal
exemplification of our meaning will be found in his delineation of the character and position
of the English clergy before the Revolution. We not only believe ourselves that this sketch
is substantially correct, but we would even venture to say that the impressions of well-informed
and unprejudiced minds as to the general truth would, in a majority of cases, coincide with
our own. Yet of this we are perfectly certain--that it would not only be possible but easy
to collect so many particular examples of a contrary tendency as would wholly bewilder the
judgment of an ordinary reader. Mr. Macaulay, in fact, can too frequently only be judged by
those who have followed, at however humble a distance, his own track of study. The temptations
to this kind of writing will be considerably weaker in the case of the volumes which are yet
to come, and we may there, perhaps, hope for a little more severity of quotation. Yet in the
portraitures of individual characters these inducements will still remain, nor can they be
very easily, or indeed very properly, overlooked.

"It is not enough to say that the character of an historical personage is to be drawn from
the authentic record of his actions. No doubt it is so; but there are a thousand minute and
almost indefinable suggestions, arising from the perusal of these actions with all their circumstances,
which will exercise a most material influence upon the judgment. The motives, for instance,
of an action, must be almost always matter of surmise, and yet upon these surmises the conclusion
will mainly depend. It is to this cause we must attribute the contradiction which such conclusions
occasionally exhibit, as in the conflicting characters drawn by various hands of Archbishop
Cranmer, of General Monk, of James II., or, as in the case before us, of William Penn. Nevertheless,
Mr. Forster does supply us with some means of estimating the justice and accuracy of Mr. Macaulay's
decision; but as our limits preclude any thing like a comparison of the two theories in detail,
we must confine ourselves to communicating a general idea of the disputed points in continuation
and illustration of what we have already premised.

"William Penn, the Quaker, as we need hardly state, passed the early part of his life under
heavy persecutions on account of his religious opinions. In the resolute spirit of fortitude
with which he sustained these sufferings he gave utterance to many rigid and uncompromising
doctrines. Things then took a turn with him, and from a poor persecuted pietist he became a
close client of Royalty, and almost the chief of court favorites in an age of favoritism. That
some of his sayings and doings in these two strangely-contrasted scenes of his life should
be a little contradictory is, to say the least, no matter of wonder. Mr. Macaulay, accordingly,
giving him full credit for religious principle, but not much for strength of mind, depicts
the stubborn and fanatical Quaker of former days as having become in the reign of King James
the compliant and, though well-meaning, not over-scrupulous agent of a monarch, whose designs
were directed against the civil and religious liberty of his people. Mr. Forster, on the other
hand, would ascribe Penn's appearance in these scenes exclusively to his good and charitable
intentions. He would represent him solely as a peacemaker (which is, perhaps, not far from
the truth), and he would exculpate him from all motives except those of charity; attributing
to him a thorough and undisguised repugnance to the king's evil designs, and a resolution simply
to realize out of these evil doings the great and permanent blessing of religious liberty for
his countrymen at large.

"The first bone of contention is the participation of Penn in that nefarious transaction by
which the Royal Maids of Honor extorted ransoms from the poor Taunton girls who had welcomed
the arrival of Monmouth. It seems that the chief, if not the sole authority for Mr. Macaulay's
remarks on this head is contained in a letter of Sunderland's, preserved in the State-Paper
office, and addressed to "Mr. Penne." Mr. Forster, therefore, disputes the identity of the
two persons. Now, we think that very few people, after a careful exercise of their judgment,
would doubt either that this letter was addressed to Penn, or that another, subsequently alluded
to, was written by him. Still we admit that its phraseology does not bear out all Mr. Macaulay's
circumstantial details of the transaction, and it certainly cannot be denied that his conduct
was, to say the least, susceptible of an interpretation which should have called rather for
the approval than the censure of the historian. The principal subject, however, of the controversy
is the share taken by William Penn in the dealings of James with the Fellows of Magdalen College,
Oxford. We feel it very difficult to give any sufficient statement of this case, not only by
reason of our narrow limits, but for want of words so to express ourselves as not to assume
what one or other of the disputants deny. Yet Mr. Forster must not complain if we assert that
William Penn, in this as in other questionable transactions, was, if not an agent of the king,
at least a kind of go-between, and generally with an inclination towards that conclusion which
James desired. Perhaps he often interfered because nobody else could interfere so beneficially--this
we are very willing to allow, but, to take the case now before us, it surely cannot be gainsayed
that in his mediation, if Mr. Forster will accept the term, between the king and the college,
he really did wish that, with as little unpleasantness as might be, the college should submit
to the king. And even if we accept as not proved the allegation that he directly tempted the
Fellows to perjury, yet Mr. Forster must not ask us to believe that Penn would not have been
a great deal better pleased if the Fellows had quietly dropped the consideration of their oaths,
and surrendered their foundation to the Papists without further struggle.

"We suspect the truth to be, that Mr. Macaulay has somewhat exceeded his specified warrants,
not in the design, but in the coloring. We believe that many of Penn's acts were strangely
inconsistent, if rigorously noted, with his principles as previously professed, but we doubt
whether they will bear quite such hard words as Mr. Macaulay has given them. Nevertheless,
to recur to an expression which we employed before, we are persuaded that in a majority of
cases the general impression of an unbiassed inquirer would be more nearly in accordance with
Mr. Macaulay's sketch than with that flattering and stainless portrait which Mr. Forster, at
the conclusion of his remarks, would fain have drawn. Mr. Macaulay may have painted his story
a little too highly. His faults are less in his verbs and substantives than in his adjectives
and his adverbs. Penn never in all probability became such an obsequious and pliant-principled
courtier as he is represented in this history, but the simple facts which are authentically
recorded of his court-life preclude any notion of the high-souled and spotless character which
Mr. Forster would fain depict."

The subjects discussed in this volume have been much handled by our own writers, and in several
cases with very decided ability. We incline to the side of Mr. Forster, throughout. An attentive
study of the life of William Penn reveals to our view a character of singular purity, and in
nearly all respects admirably composed. The judgment of Macaulay we hold in very little esteem.
It was said of Voltaire that he would sacrifice Christ for an epigram; it may be said of Macaulay
that he would sacrifice as liberally for an antithesis. He labors always for effect, and it
must be admitted that he has evinced very extraordinary abilities for this end; he never fails
in variety, contrast, or grouping; hence his popularity, and the absence from his pictures
of the highest elements of history.

Although in State Papers and in the Transactions of Societies in this country, there is a large
amount of important historical material in relation to Penn, we have no creditable memoir of
him; which is remarkable, considering the attractive interest of the subject, and the jealousy
which has been displayed in various quarters respecting every thing affecting his reputation.

CHAPTER X.

The two horsemen rode on their way. Neither spoke for several minutes. Sir Philip Hastings
pondering sternly on all that had passed, and his younger companion gazing upon the scene around
flooded with the delicious rays of sunset, as if nothing had passed at all.

Sir Philip, as I have shown the reader, had a habit of brooding over any thing which excited
much interest in his breast--nay more, of extracting from it, by a curious sort of alchemy,
essence very different from its apparent nature, sometimes bright, fine, and beneficial, and
others dark and maleficient. The whole of the transaction just past disturbed him much; it
puzzled him; it set his imagination running upon a thousand tracks, and most of them wrong
ones; and thought was not willing to be called from her vagaries to deal with any other subject
than that which preoccupied her.

The young stranger, on the other hand, seemed one of those characters which take all things
much more lightly. In the moment of action, he had shown skill, resolution, and energy enough,
but as he sat there on his horse's back, looking round at every point of any interest to an
admirer of nature with an easy, calm and unconcerned air, no one who saw him could have conceived
that he had been engaged the moment before in so fierce though short a struggle. There was
none of the heat of the combatant or the triumph of the victor in his air or countenance, and
his placid and equable expression of face contrasted strongly with the cloud which sat upon
the brow of his companion.

"I beg your pardon, sir, for my gloomy silence," said Sir Philip Hastings, at length, conscious
that his demeanor was not very courteous, "but this affair troubles me. Besides certain relations
which it bears to matters of private concernment, I am not satisfied as to how I should deal
with the ruffian we have suffered to depart so easily. His assault upon myself I do not choose
to treat harshly; but the man is a terror to the country round, committing many an act to which
the law awards a very insufficient punishment, but with cunning sufficient to keep within that
line, the passage beyond which would enable society to purge itself of such a stain upon it;
how to deal with him, I say, embarrasses me greatly. I have committed him two or three times
to prison already; and I am inclined to regret that I did not, on this occasion, when he was
in the very act of breaking the law, send my sword through him, and I should have been well
justified in doing so."

"Nay, sir, methinks that would have been too much," replied his companion; "he has had a fall,
which, if I judge rightly, will be a sufficient punishment for his assault upon you. According
to the very lex talionis, he has had what he deserves. If he has nearly broke your arm, I think
I have nearly broken his back."

"It is not his punishment for any offence to myself, sir, I seek," replied the baronet; "it
is a duty to society to free it from the load of such a man whenever he himself affords the
opportunity of doing so. Herein the law would have justified me, but even had it not been so,
I can conceive many cases where it may be necessary for the benefit of our country and society
to go beyond what the law will justify, and to make the law for the necessity."

"Brutus, and a few of his friends, did so," replied the young stranger with a smile, "and we
admire them very much for so doing, but I am afraid we should hang them, nevertheless, if they
were in a position to try the thing over again. The illustration of the gibbet and the statue
might have more applications than one, for I sincerely believe, if we could revive historical
characters, we should almost in all cases erect a gallows for those to whom we now raise a
monument."

Sir Philip Hastings turned and looked at him attentively, and saw his face was gay and smiling.
"You take all these things very lightly, sir," he said.

"With a safe lightness," replied the stranger.

"Nay, with something more," rejoined his companion; "in your short struggle with that ruffian,
you sprang upon him, and overthrew him like a lion, with a fierce activity which I can hardly
imagine really calmed down so soon."

"O yes it is, my dear sir," replied the stranger, "I am somewhat of a stoic in all things.
It is not necessary that rapidity of thought and action, in a moment of emergency, should go
one line beyond the occasion, or sink one line deeper than the mere reason. The man who suffers
his heart to be fluttered, or his passions to be roused, by any just action he is called upon
to do, is not a philosopher. Understand me, however; I do not at all pretend to be quite perfect
in my philosophy; but, at all events, I trust I schooled myself well enough not to suffer a
wrestling match with a contemptible animal like that, to make my pulse beat a stroke quicker
after the momentary effort is over."

Sir Philip Hastings was charmed with the reply; for though it was a view of philosophy which
he could not and did not follow, however much he might agree to it, yet the course of reasoning
and the sources of argument were so much akin to those he usually sought, that he fancied he
had at length found a man quite after his own heart. He chose to express no farther opinion
upon the subject, however, till he had seen more of his young companion; but that more he determined
to see. In the mean time he easily changed the conversation, saying, "You seemed to be a very
skilful and practised wrestler, sir."

"I was brought up in Cornwall," replied the other, "though not a Cornish man, and having no
affinity even with the Terse and the Tees--an Anglo Saxon, I am proud to believe, for I look
upon that race as the greatest which the world has yet produced."

"What, superior to the Roman?" asked Sir Philip.

"Ay, even so," answered the stranger, "with as much energy, as much resolution, less mobility,
more perseverance, with many a quality which the Roman did not possess. The Romans have left
us many a fine lesson which we are capable of practising as well as they, while we can add
much of which they had no notion."

"I should like much to discuss the subject with you more at large," said Sir Philip Hastings,
in reply; "but I know not whether we have time sufficient to render it worth while to begin."

"I really hardly know, either," answered the young stranger; "for, in the first place, I am
unacquainted with the country, and in the next place, I know not how far you are going. My
course tends towards a small town called Hartwell--or, as I suspect it ought to be, Hartswell,
probably from some fountain at which hart and hind used to come and drink."

"I am going a little beyond it," replied Sir Philip Hastings, "so that our journey will be
for the next ten miles together;" and with this good space of time before him, the baronet
endeavored to bring his young companion back to the subject which had been started, a very
favorite one with him at all times.

But the stranger seemed to have his hobbies as well as Sir Philip, and having dashed into etymology
in regard to Hartwell, he pursued it with an avidity which excluded all other topics.

"I believe," he said, not in the least noticing Sir Philip's dissertation on Roman virtues--"my
own belief is, that there is not a proper name in England, except a few intruded upon us by
the Normans, which might not easily be traced to accidental circumstances in the history of
the family or the place. Thus, in the case of Aylesbury, or Eaglestown, from which it is derived,
depend upon it the place has been noted as a resort for eagles in old times, coming thither
probably for the ducks peculiar to that place. Bristol, in Anglo Saxon, meaning the place of
a bridge, is very easily traceable; and Costa, or Costaford, meaning in Anglo Saxon the tempter's
ford, evidently derives its name from monk or maiden having met the enemy of man or womankind
at that place, and having had cause to rue the encounter. All the Hams, all the Tons, and all
the Sons, lead us at once to the origin of the name, to say nothing of all the points of the
compass, all the colors of the rainbow, and every trade that the ingenuity of man has contrived
to invent."

In vain Sir Philip Hastings for the next half hour endeavored to bring him back to what he
considered more important questions. He had evidently had enough of the Romans for the time
being, and indulged himself in a thousand fanciful speculations upon every other subject but
that, till Sir Philip, who at one time had rated his intellect very highly, began to think
him little better than a fool. Suddenly, however, as if from a sense of courtesy rather than
inclination, the young man let his older companion have his way in the choice of subject, and
in his replies showed such depth of thought, such a thorough acquaintance with history, and
such precise and definite views, that once more the baronet changed his opinion, and said to
himself, "This is a fine and noble intellect indeed, nearly spoiled by the infection of a corrupt
and frivolous world, but which might be reclaimed, if fortune would throw him in the way of
those whose principles have been fixed and tried."

He pondered upon the matter for some short time. It was now completely dark, and the town to
which the stranger was going distant not a quarter of a mile. The little stars were looking
out in the heavens, peering at man's actions like bright-eyed spies at night; but the moon
had not risen, and the only light upon the path was reflected from the flashing, dancing stream
that ran along beside the road, seeming to gather up all the strong rays from the air, and
give them back again with interest.

"You are coming very near Hartwell," said Sir Philip, at length; "but it is somewhat difficult
to find from this road, and being but little out of my way, I will accompany you thither, and
follow the high road onwards."

The stranger was about to express his thanks, but the Baronet stopped him, saying, "Not in
the least, my young friend. I am pleased with your conversation, and should be glad to cultivate
your acquaintance if opportunity should serve. I am called Sir Philip Hastings, and shall be
glad to see you at any time, if you are passing near my house."

"I shall certainly wait upon you, Sir Philip, if I stay any time in this county," replied the
other. "That, however, is uncertain, for I come here merely on a matter of business, which
may be settled in a few hours--indeed it ought to be so, for it seems to me very simple. However,
it may detain me much longer, and then I shall not fail to take advantage of your kind permission."

He spoke gravely, and little more was said till they entered the small town of Hartwell, about
half through which a large gibbet-like bar was seen projecting from the front of a house, suspending
a large board, upon which was painted a star. The light shining from the windows of an opposite
house fell upon the symbol, and the stranger, drawing in his rein, said, "Here is my inn, and
I will now wish you good night, with many thanks, Sir Philip."

"Methinks it is I should thank you," replied the Baronet, "both for a pleasant journey, and
for the punishment you inflicted on the ruffian Cutter."

"As for the first," said the stranger, "that has been more than repaid, if indeed it deserved
thanks at all; and as for the other, that was a pleasure in itself. There is a great satisfaction
to me in breaking down the self-confidence of one of these burly bruisers."

As he spoke, he dismounted, again wishing Sir Philip good night, and the latter rode on upon
his way. His meditations, as he went, were altogether upon the subject of the young stranger;
for, as I have shown, Sir Philip rarely suffered two ideas to get any strong grasp of his mind
at the same time. He revolved, and weighed, and dissected every thing the young man had said,
and the conclusion that he came to was even more favorable than at first. He seemed a man after
his own heart, with just sufficient differences of opinion and diversities of character to
make the Baronet feel a hankering for some opportunity of moulding and modelling him to his
own standard of perfection. Who he could be, he could not by any means divine. That he was
a gentleman in manners and character, there could be no doubt. That he was not rich, Sir Philip
argued from the fact of his not having chosen the best inn in the little town, and he might
also conclude that he was of no very distinguished family, as he had not thought fit to mention
his own name in return for the Baronet's frank invitation.

Busy with these thoughts Sir Philip rode on but slowly, and took nearly half an hour to reach
the gates of Mrs. Hazleton's park, though they stood only two miles' distance from the town.
He arrived before them at length, however, and rang the bell. The lodge-keeper opened them
but slowly, and putting his horse to a quicker pace, Sir Philip trotted up the avenue towards
the house. He had not reached it, however, when he heard the sound of horses feet behind him,
and, as he was dismounting at the door, his companion of the way rode quickly up and sprang
to the ground, saying, with a laugh--

"I find, Sir Philip, that we are both to enjoy the same quarters to-night, for, on my arrival
at Hartwell, I did not expect to visit this house till to-morrow morning. Mrs. Hazelton, however,
has very kindly had my baggage brought up from the inn, and therefore I have no choice but
to intrude upon her to-night."

As he spoke the doors of the house were thrown open, servants came forth to take the horses,
and the two gentlemen were ushered at once into Mrs. Hazleton's receiving-room.

CHAPTER XI.

Mrs. Hazleton was looking as beautiful as she had been at twenty--perhaps more so; for the
few last years before the process of decay commences, sometimes adds rather than detracts from
woman's loveliness. She was dressed with great skill and taste too; nay, even with peculiar
care. The hair, which had not yet even one silver thread in its wavy mass, was so arranged
as to hide, in some degree, that height and width of forehead which gave almost too intellectual
an expression to her countenance--which, upon some occasions, rendered the expression (for
the features were all feminine) more that of a man than that of a woman. Her dress was very
simple in appearance though costly in material; but it had been chosen and fitted by the nicest
art, of colors which best harmonized with her complexion, and in forms rather to indicate beauties
than to display them.

Thus attired, with grace and dignity in every motion, she advanced to meet Sir Philip Hastings,
frankly holding out her hand to him, and beaming on him one of her most lustrous smiles. It
was all thrown away upon him indeed; but that did not matter. It had its effect in another
quarter. She then turned to the younger gentleman with a greater degree of reserve in manner,
but yet, as she spoke to him and welcomed him to her house, the color deepened on her cheek
with a blush that would not have been lost to Sir Philip if he had been at all in the custom
of making use of them. They had evidently met before, but not often; and her words, "Good evening,
Mr. Marlow, I am glad to see you at my house at length," were said in the tone of one who was
really glad, but did not wish to show it too plainly.

"You have come with my friend, Sir Philip Hastings," she added; "I did not know you were acquainted."

"Nor were we, my dear madam, till this evening," replied the Baronet, speaking for himself
and his companion of the road, "till we met by accident on the hill-side on our way hither.
We had a somewhat unpleasant encounter with a notorious personage of the name of Tom Cutter,
which brought us first into acquaintance; though, till you uttered it, my young friend's name
was unknown to me."

"Tom Cutter! is that the man who poaches all my game?" said the lady, in a musing tone.

Nor was she musing of Tom Cutter, or the lost game, or of the sins and iniquities of poaching;
neither one or the other. The exclamation and inquiry taken together were only one of those
little half-unconscious stratagems of human nature, by which we often seek to amuse the other
parties in conversation--and sometimes amuse our own outward man too--while the little spirit
within is busily occupied with some question which we do not wish our interlocutors to have
any thing to do with. She was asking herself, in fact, what had been the conversation with
which Sir Philip Hastings and Mr. Marlow had beguiled the way--whether they had talked of her--whether
they had talked of her affairs--and how she could best get some information on the subject
without seeming to seek it.

She soon had an opportunity of considering the matter more at leisure, for Sir Philip Hastings,
with some remark as to "dusty dresses not being fit for ladies' drawing-rooms," retired for
a time to the chamber prepared for him. The fair lady of the house detained Mr. Marlow indeed
for a few minutes, talking with him in a pleasant and gentle tone, and making her bright eyes
do their best in the way of captivating. She expressed regret that she had not seen him more
frequently, and expressed a hope, in very graceful terms, that even the painful question, which
those troublesome men of law had started between them, might be a means of ripening their acquaintance
into friendship.

The young gentleman replied with all gallantry, but with due discretion, and then retired to
his room to change his dress. He certainly was a very good-looking young man; finely formed,
and with a pleasing though not regularly handsome countenance; and perhaps he left Mrs. Hazleton
other matters to meditate of than the topics of his conversation with Sir Philip Hastings.
Certain it is, that when the baronet returned very shortly after, he found his beautiful hostess
in a profound reverie, from which his sudden entrance made her start with a bewildered look
not common to her.

"I am very glad to talk to you for a few moments alone, my dear friend," said Mrs. Hazleton,
after a moment's pause. "This Mr. Marlow is the gentleman who claims the very property on which
you now stand;" and she proceeded to give her hearer, partly by spontaneous explanations, partly
by answers to his questions, her own view of the case between herself and Mr. Marlow; laboring
hard and skilfully to prepossess the mind of Sir Philip Hastings with a conviction of her rights
as opposed to that of her young guest.

"Do you mean to say, my dear madam," asked Sir Philip, "that he claims the whole of this large
property? That would be a heavy blow indeed."

"Oh, dear, no," replied the lady; "the great bulk of the property is mine beyond all doubt,
but the land on which this house stands, and rather more than a thousand acres round it, was
bought by my poor father before I was born, I believe, as affording the most eligible site
for a mansion. He never liked the old house near your place, and built this for himself. Mr.
Marlow's lawyers now declare that his grand-uncle, who sold the land to my father, had no power
to sell it; that the property was strictly entailed."

"That will be easily ascertained," said Sir Philip Hastings; "and I am afraid, my dear madam,
if that should prove the case, you will have no remedy but to give up the property."

"But is not that very hard?" asked Mrs. Hazleton, "the Marlows certainly had the money."

"That will make no difference," replied Sir Philip, musing; "this young man's grand-uncle may
have wronged your father; but he is not responsible for the act, and I am very much afraid,
moreover, that his claim may not be limited to the property itself. Back rents, I suspect,
might be claimed."

"Ay, that is what my lawyer, Mr. Shanks, says," replied Mrs. Hazleton, with a bewildered look;
"he tells me that if Mr. Marlow is successful in the suit, I shall have to pay the whole of
the rents of the land. But Shanks added that he was quite certain of beating him if we could
retain for our counsel Sargeant Tutham and Mr. Doubledo."

"Shanks is a rogue," said Sir Philip Hastings, in a calm, equable tone; "and the two lawyers
you have named bear the reputation of being learned and unscrupulous men. The first point,
my dear madam, is to ascertain whether this young gentleman's claim is just, and then to deal
with him equitably, which, in the sense I affix to the term, may be somewhat different from legal."

"I really do not know what to do," cried Mrs. Hazleton, with a slight laugh, as if at her own
perplexity. "I was never in such a situation in my life;" and then she added, very rapidly
and in a jocular tone, as if she were afraid of pausing upon or giving force to any one word,
"if my poor father had been alive, he would have settled it all after his own way soon enough.
He was a great match-maker you know, Sir Philip, and he would have proposed, in spite of all
obstacles, a marriage between the two parties, to settle the affair by matrimony instead of
by law," and she laughed again as if the very idea was ridiculous.

Unlearned Sir Philip thought so too, and most improperly replied, "The difference of age would
of course put that out of the question;" nor when he had committed the indiscretion, did he
perceive the red spot which came upon Mrs. Hazleton's fair brow, and indicated sufficiently
enough the effect his words had produced. There was an ominous silent pause, however, for a
minute, and then the Baronet was the person to resume the discourse in his usual calm, argumentative
tone. "I do not think," he said, "from Mr. Marlow's demeanor or conversation, that he is likely
to be very exacting in this matter. His claim, however, must be looked to in the first place,
before we admit any thing on your part. If the property was really entailed, he has undoubtedly
a right to it, both in honesty and in law; but methinks there he might limit his claim if his
sense of real equity be strong; but the entail must be made perfectly clear before you can
admit so much as that."

"Well, well, sir," said Mrs. Hazleton, hastily, for she heard a step on the outer stairs, "I
will leave it entirely to you, Sir Philip, I am sure you will take good care of my interests."

Sir Philip did not altogether like the word interests, and bowing his head somewhat stiffly,
he added, "and of your honor, my dear madam."

Mrs. Hazleton liked his words as little as he did hers, and she colored highly. She made no
reply, indeed, but his words that night were never forgotten.

The next moment Mr. Marlow entered the room with a quiet, easy air, evidently quite unconscious
of having been the subject of conversation. During the evening he paid every sort of polite
attention to his fair hostess, and undoubtedly showed signs and symptoms of thinking her a
very beautiful and charming woman. Whatever was her game, take my word for it, reader, she
played it skilfully, and the very fact of her retiring early, at the very moment when she had
made the most favorable impression, leaving Sir Philip Hastings to entertain Mr. Marlow at
supper, was not without its calculation.

As soon as the lady was gone, Sir Philip turned to the topic of Mrs. Hazleton's business with
his young companion, and managed the matter more skilfully than might have been expected. He
simply told him that Mrs. Hazleton had mentioned a claim made upon her estate by his lawyers,
and had thought it better to leave the investigation of the affair to her friend, rather than
to professional persons.

A frank good-humored smile came upon Mr. Marlow's face at once. "I am not a rich man, Sir Philip,"
he said, "and make no professions of generosity, but, at the same time, as my grand-uncle undoubtedly
had this money from Mrs. Hazleton's father, I should most likely never have troubled her on
the subject, but that this very estate is the original seat of our family, on which we can
trace our ancestors back through many centuries. The property was undoubtedly entailed, my
father and my uncle were still living when it was sold, and performed no disentailing act whatever.
This is perfectly susceptible of proof, and though my claim may put Mrs. Hazleton to some inconvenience,
I am anxious to avoid putting her to any pain. Now I have come down with a proposal which I
confidently trust you will think reasonable. Indeed, I expected to find her lawyer here rather
than an independent friend, and I was assured that my proposal would be accepted immediately,
by persons who judged of my rights more sanely perhaps than I could."

"May I hear what the proposal is?" asked Sir Philip.

"Assuredly," replied Mr. Marlow, "it is this: that in the first place Mrs. Hazleton should
appoint some gentleman of honor, either at the bar or not, as she may think fit, to investigate
my claim, with myself or some other gentleman on my part, with right to call in a third as
umpire between them. I then propose that if my claim should be distinctly proved, Mrs. Hazleton
should surrender to me the lands in question, I repaying her the sum which my grand-uncle received,
and--"

"Stay," said Sir Philip Hastings, "are you aware that the law would not oblige you to do that?"

"Perfectly," replied Mr. Marlow, "and indeed I am not very sure that equity would require it
either, for I do not know that my father ever received any benefit from the money paid to his
uncle. He may have received a part however, without my knowing it, for I would rather err on
the right side than on the wrong. I then propose that the rents of the estate, as shown by
the leases, and fair interest upon the value of the ground surrounding this house, should be
computed during the time that it has been out of our possession, while on the other hand the
legal interest of the money paid for the property should be calculated for the same period,
the smaller sum deducted from the larger, and the balance paid by me to Mrs. Hazleton or by
Mrs. Hazleton to me, so as to replace every thing in the same state as if this unfortunate
sale had never taken place."

Sir Philip Hastings mused without reply for more than one minute. That is a long time to muse,
and many may be the thoughts and feelings which pass through the breast of man during that
space. They were many in the present instance; and it would not be very easy to separate or
define them. Sir Philip thought of all the law would have granted to the young claimant under
the circumstances of the case: the whole property, all the back rents, every improvement that
had been made, the splendid mansion in which they were then standing, without the payment on
his part of a penny: he compared these legal rights with what he now proposed, and he saw that
he had indeed gone a great way on the generous side of equity. There was something very fine
and noble in this conduct, something that harmonized well with his own heart and feelings.
There was no exaggeration, no romance about it: he spoke in the tone of a man of business doing
a right thing well considered, and the Baronet was satisfied in every respect but one. Mrs.
Hazleton's words I must not say had created a suspicion, but had suggested the idea that other
feelings might be acting between her and his young companion, notwithstanding the difference
of age which he had so bluntly pointed out, and he resolved to inquire farther.

In the mean time, however, Mr. Marlow somewhat misinterpreted his silence, and he added, after
waiting longer than was pleasant, "Of course you understand, Sir Philip, that if two or three
honest men decide that my case is unfounded--although I know that cannot be the case--I agree
to drop it at once and renounce it for ever. My solicitors and counsel in London judged the
offer a fair one at least."

"And so do I," said Sir Philip Hastings, emphatically; "however, I must speak with Mrs. Hazleton
upon the subject, and express my opinion to her. Pray, have you the papers regarding your claim
with you?"

"I have attested copies," replied Mr. Marlow, "and I can bring them to you in a moment. They
are so unusually clear, and seem to put the matter so completely beyond all doubt, that I brought
them down to satisfy Mrs. Hazleton and her solicitor, without farther trouble, that my demand
at least had some foundation in justice."

The papers were immediately brought, and sitting down deliberately, Sir Philip Hastings went
through them with his young friend, carefully weighing every word. They left not even a doubt
on his mind; they seemed not to leave a chance even for the chicanery of the law, they were
clear, precise, and definite. And the generosity of the young man's offer stood out even more
conspicuously than before.

"For my part, I am completely satisfied," said Sir Philip Hastings, when he had done the examination,
"and I have no doubt that Mrs. Hazleton will be so likewise. She is an excellent and amiable
person, as well as a very beautiful woman. Have you known her long? have you seen her often?"

"Only once, and that about a year ago," replied Mr. Marlow; "she is indeed very beautiful as
you say--for a woman of her period of life remarkably so; she puts me very much in mind of
my mother, whom I in the confidence of youthful affection used to call 'my everlasting.' I
recollect doing so only three days before the hand of death wrote upon her brow the vanity
of all such earthly thoughts."

Sir Philip Hastings was satisfied. There was nothing like passion there. Unobservant as he
was in most things, he was more clear-sighted in regard to matters of love, than any other
affection of the human mind. He had himself loved deeply and intensely, and he had not forgotten
it.

It was necessary, before any thing could be concluded, to wait for Mrs. Hazleton's rising on
the following morning; and, bidding Mr. Marlow good night with a warm grasp of the hand, Sir
Philip Hastings retired to his room and passed nearly an hour in thought, pondering the character
of his new acquaintance, recalling every trait he had remarked, and every word he had heard.
It was a very satisfactory contemplation. He never remembered to have met with one who seemed
so entirely a being after his own heart. There might be little flaws, little weaknesses perhaps,
but the confirming power of time and experience would, he thought, strengthen all that was
good, and counsel and example remedy all that was weak or light.

"At all events," thought the Baronet, "his conduct on this occasion shows a noble and equitable
spirit. We shall see how Mrs. Hazleton meets it to-morrow."

When that morrow came, he had to see the reverse of the picture, but it must be reserved for
another chapter.

CHAPTER XII.

Mrs. Hazleton was up in the morning early. She was at all times an early riser, for she well
knew what a special conservator of beauty is the morning dew, but on this occasion certain
feelings of impatience made her a little earlier than usual. Besides, she knew that Sir Philip
Hastings was always a matutinal man, and would certainly be in the library before she was down.
Nor was she disappointed. There she found the Baronet reaching up his hand to take down Livy,
after having just replaced Tacitus.

"It is a most extraordinary thing, my dear madam," said Sir Philip, after the salutation of
the morning, "and puzzles me more than I can explain."

Mrs. Hazleton fancied that her friend had discovered some very knotty point in the case with
Mr. Marlow, and she rejoiced, for her object was not to emulate but to entangle. Sir Philip,
however, went on to put her out of all patience by saying, "How the Romans, so sublimely virtuous
at one period of their history, could fall into so debased and corrupt a state as we find described
even by Sallust, and depicted in more frightful colors still by the latter historians of the
empire."

Mrs. Hazleton, as I have said, was out of all patience, and ladies in that state sometimes
have recourse to homely illustration. "Their virtue got addled, I suppose," she replied, "by
too long keeping. Virtue is an egg that won't bear sitting upon--but now do tell me, Sir Philip,
had you any conversation with Mr. Marlow last night upon this troublesome affair of mine?"

"I had, my dear madam," replied Sir Philip, with a very faint smile, for Sir Philip could not
well bear any jesting on the Romans. "I did not only converse with Mr. Marlow on the subject,
but I examined carefully the papers he brought down with him, and perceived at once that you
have not the shadow of a title to the property in question."

Mrs. Hazleton's brow grew dark, and she replied in a somewhat sullen tone, "You decided against
me very rapidly, Sir Philip. I hope you did not let Mr. Marlow see your strong prepossession--opinion
I mean to say--in his favor."

"Entirely," replied Sir Philip Hastings.

Mrs. Hazleton was silent, and gazed down upon the carpet as if she were counting the threads
of which it was composed, and finding the calculation by no means satisfactory.

Sir Philip let her gaze on for some time, for he was not very easily moved to compassion in
cases where he saw dishonesty of purpose as well as suffering. At length, however, he said,
"My judgment is not binding upon you in the least; I tell you simply, my dear madam, what is
my conclusion, and the law will tell you the same."

"We shall see," muttered Mrs. Hazleton between her teeth; but then putting on a softer air
she asked, "Tell me, Sir Philip, would you, if you were in my situation, tamely give up a property
which was honestly bought and paid for, without making one struggle to retain it?"

"The moment I was convinced I had no legal right to it," replied Sir Philip. "However, the
law is still open to you, if you think it better to resist; but before you take your determination,
you had better hear what Mr. Marlow proposes, and you will pardon me for expressing to you
what I did not express to him: an opinion that his proposal is founded upon the noblest view
of equity."

"Indeed," said Mrs. Hazleton, with her eyes brightening, "pray let me hear this proposal."

Sir Philip explained it to her most distinctly, expecting that she would be both surprised
and pleased, and never doubted that she would accept it instantly. Whether she was surprised
or not, did not appear, but pleased she certainly was not to any great extent, for she did
not wish the matter to be so soon concluded. She began to make objections immediately. "The
enormous expense of building this house has not been taken into consideration at all, and it
will be very necessary to have the original papers examined before any thing is decided. There
are two sides to every question, my dear Sir Philip, and we cannot tell that other papers may
not be found, disentailing this estate before the sale took place."

"This is impossible," answered Sir Philip Hastings, "if the papers exhibited to me are genuine,
for this young gentleman, on whom, as his father's eldest son, the estate devolved by the entail,
was not born when the sale took place. By his act only could it be disentailed, and as he was
not born, he could perform no such act."

He pressed her hard in his cold way, and it galled her sorely.

"Perhaps they are not genuine," she said at length.

"They are all attested," replied Sir Philip, "and he himself proposes that the originals should
be examined as the basis of the whole transaction."

"That is absolutely necessary," said Mrs. Hazleton, well satisfied to put off decision even
for a time. But Sir Philip would not leave her even that advantage.

"I think," he said, "you must at once decide whether you accept his proposal, on condition
that the examination of the papers proves the justice of his claim to the satisfaction of those
you may appoint to examine it. If there are any doubts and difficulties to be raised afterwards,
he might as well proceed by law at once."

"Then let him go to law," exclaimed Mrs. Hazleton with a flashing eye. "If he do, I will defend
every step to the utmost of my power."

"Incur enormous expense, give yourself infinite pain and mortification, and ruin a fine estate
by a spirit of unnecessary and unjust resistance," added Sir Philip, in a calm and somewhat
contemptuous tone.

"Really, Sir Philip, you press me too hard," exclaimed Mrs. Hazleton in a tone of angry mortification,
and, sitting down to the table, she actually wept.

"I only press you for your own good," answered the Baronet, not at all moved, "you are perhaps
not aware that if this gentleman's claim is just, and you resist it, the whole costs will fall
upon you. All that could be expected of him was to submit his claim to arbitration, but he
now does more; he proposes, if arbitration pronounce it just, to make sacrifices of his legal
rights to the amount of many thousand pounds. He is not bound to refund one penny paid for
this estate, he is entitled to back rents for a considerable number of years, and yet he offers
to repay the money, and far from demanding the back rents, to make compensation for any loss
of interest that may have been sustained by this investment. There are few men in England,
let me tell you, who would have made such a proposal, and if you refuse it you will never have
such another."

"Do not you think, Sir Philip," asked Mrs. Hazleton sharply, "that he never would have made
such a proposal if he had not known there was something wrong about his title?"

Now there was something in this question which doubly provoked Sir Philip Hastings. He never
could endure a habit which some ladies have of recurring continually to points previously disposed
of, and covering the reiteration by merely putting objections in a new form. Now the question
as to the validity of Mr. Marlow's title, he looked upon as entirely disposed of by the proposal
of investigation and arbitration. But there was something more than this; the very question
which the lady put showed an incapacity for conceiving any generous motive, which thoroughly
disgusted him, and, turning with a quiet step to the window, he looked down upon the lawn which
spread far away between two ranges of tall fine wood, glowing in the yellow sunshine of a dewy
autumnal morning. It was the most favorable thing he could have done for Mrs. Hazleton. Even
the finest and the strongest and the stoutest minds are more frequently affected unconsciously
by external things than any one is aware of. The sweet influences or the irritating effects
of fine or bad weather, of beautiful or tame scenery, of small cares and petty disappointments,
of pleasant associations or unpleasant memories, nay of a thousand accidental circumstances,
and even fancies themselves, will affect considerations totally distinct and apart, as the
blue or yellow panes of a stained glass window cast a melancholy hue or a yellow splendor upon
the statue and carvings of the cold gray stone.

As Sir Philip gazed forth upon the fair scene before his eyes, and thought what a lovely spot
it was, how calm, how peaceful, how refreshing in its influence, he said to himself, "No wonder
she is unwilling to part with it."

Then again, there was a hare gambolling upon the lawn, at a distance of about a hundred yards
from the house, now scampering along and beating up the dew from the morning grass, now crouched
nearly flat so as hardly to be seen among the tall green blades, then hopping quietly along
with an awkward, shuffling gait, or sitting up on its hind legs, with raised ears, listening
to some distant sound; but still as it resumed its gambols, again going round and round, tracing
upon the green sward a labyrinth of meandering lines. Sir Philip watched it for several moments
with a faint smile, and then said to himself, "It is the beast's nature--why not a woman's?"

Turning himself round he saw Mrs. Hazleton, sitting at the table with her head leaning in a
melancholy attitude upon her hand, and he replied to her last words, though he had before fully
made up his mind to give them no answer whatever.

"The question in regard to title, my dear madam," he said, "is one which is to be decided by
others. Employ a competent person, and he will insure, by full investigation, that your rights
are maintained entire. Your acceptance of Mr. Marlow's proposals contingent on the full recognition
of his claim, will be far from prejudicing your case, should any flaw in your title be discovered.
On the contrary, should the decision of a point of law be required, it will put you well with
the court. By frankly doing so, you also meet him in the same spirit in which I am sure he
comes to you; and as I am certain he has a very high sense of equity, I think he will be well
inclined to enter into any arrangement which may be for your convenience. From what he has
said himself, I do not believe he can afford to keep such an establishment as is necessary
for this house, and if you cling to it, as you may well do, doubtless it may remain your habitation
as long as you please at a very moderate rent. Every other particular I think may be settled
in the same manner, if you will but show a spirit of conciliation, and----"

"I am sure I have done that," said Mrs. Hazleton, interrupting him. "However, Sir Philip, I
will leave it all to you. You must act for me in this business. If you think it right, I will
accept the proposal conditionally as you mention, and the title can be examined fully whenever
we can fix upon the time and the person. All this is very hard upon me, I do think; but I suppose
I must submit with a good grace."

"It is certainly the best plan," replied Sir Philip; and while Mrs. Hazleton retired to efface
the traces of tears from her eyelids, the Baronet walked into the drawing-room, where he was
soon after joined by Mr. Marlow. He merely told him, however, that he had conversed with the
lady of the house, and that she would give him her answer in person. Now, whatever were Mrs.
Hazleton's wishes or intentions, she certainly was not well satisfied with the precise and
rapid manner in which Sir Philip brought matters of business to an end. His last words, however,
had afforded her a glimmering prospect of somewhat lengthy and frequent communication between
herself and Mr. Marlow, and one thing is certain, that she did not at all desire the transaction
between them to be concluded too briefly. At the same time, it was not her object to appear
otherwise than in the most favorable light to his eyes; and consequently, when she entered
the drawing-room she held out her hand to him with a gracious though somewhat melancholy smile,
saying, "I have had a long conversation with Sir Philip this morning, Mr. Marlow, concerning
the very painful business which brought you here. I agree at once to your proposal in regard
to the arbitration and the rest;" and she then went on to speak of the whole business as if
she had made not the slightest resistance whatever, but had been struck at once by the liberality
of his proposals, and by the sense of equity which they displayed. Sir Philip took little notice
of all this; for he had fallen into one of his fits of musing, and Mr. Marlow had quitted the
room to bring some of the papers for the purpose of showing them to Mrs. Hazleton, before the
Baronet awoke out of his reverie. The younger gentleman returned a moment after, and he and
Sir Philip and Mrs. Hazleton were busily looking at a long list of certificates of births,
deaths and marriages, when the door opened, and Mr. Shanks, the attorney, entered the room,
booted, spurred, and dusty as if from a long ride. He was a man to whom Sir Philip had a great
objection; but he said nothing, and the attorney with a tripping step advanced towards Mrs.
Hazleton.

The lady looked confused and annoyed, and in a hasty manner put back the papers into Mr. Marlow's
hand. But Mr. Shanks was one of the keen and observing men of the world. He saw every thing
about him as if he had been one of those insects which have I do not know how many thousand
pair of lenses in each eye. He had no scruples or hesitation either; he was all sight and all
remark, and a lady of any kind was not at all the person to inspire him with reverence.

He was, in short, all law, and loved nothing, respected nothing, but law.

"Dear me, Mrs. Hazleton," he exclaimed, "I did not expect to find you so engaged. These seem
to be law papers--very dangerous, indeed, madam, for unprofessional persons to meddle with
such things. Permit me to look at them;" and he held out his hand towards Mr. Marlow, as if
expecting to receive the papers without a word of remonstrance. But Mr. Marlow held them back,
saying, in a very calm, civil tone, "Excuse me, sir! We are conversing over the matter in a
friendly manner; and I shall show them to a lawyer only at Mrs. Hazleton's request."

"Very improper--that is, I mean to say very unprofessional!" exclaimed Mr. Shanks, "and let
me say very hazardous too," rejoined the lawyer abruptly; but Mrs. Hazleton herself interposed,
saying in a marked tone and with an air of dignity which did not always characterize her demeanor
towards her "right hand man," as she was accustomed sometimes to designate Mr. Shanks, "We
do not desire any interference at this moment, my good sir. I appointed you at twelve o'clock.
It is not yet nine." "O I can see, I can see," replied Mr. Shanks, while Sir Philip Hastings
advanced a step or two, "his worship here never was a friend of mine, and has no objection
to take a job or two out of my hands at any time."

"We have nothing to do with jobs, sir," said Sir Philip Hastings, in his usual dry tone, "but
at all events we do not wish you to make a job where there is none."

"I must take the liberty, however, of warning that lady, sir," said Mr. Shanks, with the pertinacity
of a parrot, which he so greatly resembled, "as her legal adviser, sir, that if----"

"That if she sends for an attorney, she wants him at the time she appoints," interposed Sir
Philip; "that was what you were about to say, I suppose."

"Not at all, sir, not at all," exclaimed the lawyer; for very shrewd and very oily lawyers
will occasionally forget their caution and their coolness when they see the prospect of a loss
of fees before them. "I was going to say no such thing. I was going to warn her not to meddle
with matters of business of which she can understand nothing, by the advice of those who know
less, and who may have jobs of their own to settle while they are meddling with hers." "And
I warn you to quit this room, sir," said Sir Philip Hastings, a bright spot coming into his
usually pale cheek; "the lady has already expressed her opinion upon your intrusion, and depend
upon it, I will enforce mine."

"I shall do no such thing, sir, till I have fully----"

He said no more, for before he could conclude the sentence, the hand of Sir Philip Hastings
was upon his collar with the grasp of a giant, and although he was a tall and somewhat powerful
man, the Baronet dragged him to the door in despite of his half-choking struggles, as a nurse
would haul along a baby, pulled him across the stone hall, and opening the outer door with
his left hand, shot him down the steps without any ceremony; leaving him with his hands and
knees upon the terrace.

This done, the Baronet returned into the house again, closing the door behind him. He then
paused in the hall for an instant, reproaching himself for certain over-quick beatings of the
heart, tranquillized his whole look and demeanor, and then returning to the drawing-room, resumed
the conversation with Mrs. Hazleton, as if nothing had ever occurred to interrupt it.

CHAPTER XIII.

Mrs. Hazleton was or affected to be a good deal flustered by the event which had just taken
place, but after a number of certain graceful attitudes, assumed without the slightest appearance
of affectation, she recovered her calmness, and proceeded with the business in hand. That business
was soon terminated, so far as the full and entire acceptance of Mr. Marlow's proposal went,
and immediately after the conclusion of breakfast, Sir Philip Hastings ordered his horses to
depart. Mrs. Hazleton fain would have detained him, for she foresaw that his going might be
a signal for Mr. Marlow's going also, and it was not a part of her policy to assume the matronly
character so distinctly as to invite him to remain in her house alone. Sir Philip however was
inexorable, and returned to his own dwelling, renewing his invitation to his new acquaintance.

Mrs. Hazleton bade him adieu, with the greatest appearance of cordiality; but I am very much
afraid, if one had possessed the power of looking into her heart, one would have a picture
very different from that presented by her face. Sir Philip Hastings had said and done things
since he had entered her dwelling the night before, which Mrs. Hazleton was not a woman to
forget or forgive. He had thwarted her schemes, he had mortified her vanity, he had wounded
her pride; and she was one of those women who bide their time, but have a strong tenacity of
resentments.

When he was gone, however, she played a new game with Mr. Marlow. She insisted upon his remaining
for the day, but with a fine sense of external proprieties, she informed him that she expected
a charming elderly lady of her acquaintance to pass a few days with her, to whom she should
particularly like to introduce him.

This was false, be it remarked; but she immediately took measures to make it true. Now, there
is in every neighborhood more than one of that class called good creatures. For this office,
an abundant store of real or assumed soft stupidity is required; but it is a somewhat difficult
part to play, for with this stupidity there must also be a considerable portion of fine tact,
to guard the performer against any of those blunders into which good-natured people are continually
plunging. Drill and discipline are also necessary, in order to be always on the look out for
hints, to appreciate them properly, to comprehend that friends may say one thing and mean another,
and to ask no questions of any kind. There were no less than three of these good creatures
in this Mrs. Hazleton's immediate neighborhood; and during a few moments' retreat to her own
little writing-room, she laid her finger upon her fair temple, and thought them well over.
Mrs. Winifred Edgeby was the first who suggested herself to the mind of the fair lady. She
had many of the requisites. She dressed well, talked well, and had an air of style and fashion
about her; was perfectly innocuous, and skilful in divining the purposes and wishes of a friend
or patron; but there was an occasional touch of subacrid humor about her which Mrs. Hazleton
did not half like. It gave an impression of seeing too clearly, of perceiving much more than
she pretended to perceive.

The second was Mrs. Warmington, a widow, not very rich, and not indeed very refined; gay, talkative,
somewhat boisterous, yet full of a sound discretion in never committing herself or a friend.
She had also much experience, for she had been twice married, and twice a widow, and thus had
had her misfortunes. The third was a Miss Goodenough, the most silent, quiet, stilly person
in the world, moving about the house with the step of a cat, and a face of infinite good nature
to the whole human race. She was to all appearance the pink of gentleness and weak good nature;
but her silence was invaluable.

After some consideration Mrs. Hazleton decided upon the widow, and instantly dispatched a note
with her own carriage, begging Mrs. Warmington to come over immediately and spend a few days
with her, as a young gentleman had arrived upon a visit, and it would be indecorous to entertain
him alone.

Mrs. Warmington understood it all in an instant. She said to herself, "Ho, ho! a young gentleman
come to stay!--wanted a duenna! Matrimony in the wind! Heigho! she must be six and thirty--six
and thirty from two and fifty leave sixteen points against me, and long odds. Well, well,--I
have had my share;" and Mrs. Warmington laughed aloud. However, she would neither keep Mrs.
Hazleton's carriage waiting, nor Mrs. Hazleton herself in suspense, for there were various
little comforts and conveniences in the good will of that lady which Mrs. Warmington was eager
to cultivate. She had, too, a shrewd suspicion that the enmity of Mrs. Hazleton might become
a thing to be seriously dreaded; and therefore, whichever side of the question she looked at,
she saw reasons for seeking the beautiful widow's good graces. Her maid was called, her clothes
packed up, and she entered the carriage and drove away, while in the mean time Mrs. Hazleton
had been expatiating to Mr. Marlow upon all the high qualities and points of excellence in
her friend Mrs. Warmington. She was too skilful, moreover, to bring her good taste and judgment
into question with her young friend, by raising expectations which might be disappointed. She
therefore threw in insinuations of a few faults and failings in dear Madam Warmington's manner
and demeanor. But then she said she was such a good creature at heart, that although the very
fastidious affected to censure, she herself forgot all little blemishes in the inherent excellence
of the person.

Moreover, upon the plea of looking at the ground which was the subject of Mr. Marlow's claim,
she led him out for a long, pleasant ramble through the park. She took him amongst old hawthorn
trees, through groves of chestnuts by the banks of the stream, and along paths where the warm
sunshine played through the brown and yellow leaves above, gilding their companions which had
fallen earlier than themselves to the sward below. It was a very lover-like walk indeed--one
where nature speaks to the heart, wakening sweet influences, and charming the spirit up from
hard and cold indifference. Mrs. Hazleton felt sure that Mr. Marlow would not forget that walk,
and she took care to impress it as deeply as possible upon his memory. Nor did she want any
of the means to do so. Her mind was highly cultivated for the age in which she lived, her taste
fine, her information extensive. She could discourse of foreign lands, of objects and scenes
of deep interest, great beauty, and rich associations,--of courts and cities far away, of music,
painting, flowers in other lands, of climates rich in sunshine and of genial warmth; and through
the whole she had the art to throw a sort of magic glow from her own mind which brightened
all she spoke of.

She was very charming that day, indeed, and Mr. Marlow felt the spell, but he did not fall in love.

Now what was the object of using all these powers upon him? Was Mrs. Hazleton a person very
susceptible, or very covetous of the tender passion? Since her return to England she had refused
some half-dozen very eligible offers from handsome, agreeable, estimable men, and the world
in general had set her down for a person as cold as a stone. It might be so, but there are
some stones which, when you heat them, acquire intense fervor, and retain it longer than any
other substance. Every body in the world has his peculiarities, his whims, caprices, crochets
if you will. Mrs. Hazleton had gazed over the handsome, the glittering and the gay, with the
most perfect indifference. She had listened to professions of love with a tranquil, easy balance
power, which weighed to a grain the advantages of matrimony and widowhood, without suffering
the dust of passion to give even a shake to the scale. Before the preceding night she had only
seen Mr. Marlow once, but the moment she set eyes upon him--the moment she heard his voice,
she had said to herself, "If ever I marry again, that is the man." There is no explaining these
sympathetic attractions, impulses, or whatever they may be called; but I think, from some observation
of human nature, it will be found that in those persons where they are the least frequent,
they are the most powerful and persevering when they do exist.

Not long after their first meeting, some intimation occurred of a claim on the part of Mr.
Marlow to a portion of the lady's property--that portion that she loved best. The very idea
of parting with it at all, of being forced to give it up, was most painful and distressing
to her. Yet that made no difference whatever in her feelings towards Mr. Marlow. Communications
of various kinds took place between lawyers, and the opposite counsel were as firm as a rock.
Mrs. Hazleton thought it very hard, very unjust, very wrong; but that changed not in the least
her feelings towards Mr. Marlow. Nay more, with that delicate art of combination in which ladies
are formed to excel, she conceived and manipulated with great dexterity a scheme for bringing
herself and Mr. Marlow into frequent personal communication, and for causing somebody to suggest
to him a marriage with her own beautiful self, as the best mode of settling the disputed claim.

O those fine and delicate threads of intrigue, how frail they are, and how much depends upon
every one of them, be it in the warp or the woof of a scheme! We have seen that in this case,
one of them gave way under the rough handling of Sir Philip Hastings, and the whole fabric
was in imminent danger of running down and becoming nothing but a raveled skein. Mrs. Hazleton
was resolved that it should not be so, and now she was busily engaged in the attempt to knot
together the broken thread, and to lay all the others straight and in right order again. This
was the secret of the whole matter.

She exerted all her charms, and could Waller but have seen her we should have had such an account
of the artillery of her eyes, the insidious attack of her smile, and the whole host of powerful
adversaries brought to bear against the object of her assault in her gracefully moving form
and heaving bosom, that Saccharissa would have melted away like a wet lump of sugar in the
comparison.

Then again when she had produced an effect, and saw clear and distinctly that he thought her
lovely, and very charming too, she seemed to fall into a pleasant sort of languid melancholy,
which was even more charming still. The brook was bubbling and murmuring at their feet, dashing
clear and bright over its stony bed, and changing the brown rock, the water weed, or the leaf
beneath, into gems by the magic of its own brightness. The boughs were waving over head, covered
with many-colored foliage, and the sun, glancing through, not only enriched the tints above,
but checkered the mossy path along which they wandered like a chess-board of brown and gold.
Some of the late autumn birds uttered their short sweet songs from the copse hard by, and the
musical wind came sighing up from the valley, as if nature had furnished Eolus with a harp.
It was in short quite a scene, and a moment for a widow to make love to a young man. They were
silent for some little time, and then Mrs. Hazleton said, with her soft, sweet, round voice,
"Is not all this very charming, Mr. Marlow?"

Her tone was quite a sad one, but not with that sort of pleasant sadness which often mingles
with our happiest moments, giving them even a higher zest, like the flattened notes when a
fine piece of music passes gently from the major into the minor key, but really sad, profoundly
sad.

"Very charming, indeed," replied her young companion, looking round to her face with some surprise.

"And what am I to do without it, when you turn me out of my house?" said the lady, answering
his glance with a melancholy smile.

"Turn you out of your house!" exclaimed Mr. Marlow; "I hope you do not suppose, my dear madam,
that I could dream of such a thing. Oh, no! I would not for the world deprive such a scene
of its brightest ornament. Some arrangement can be easily effected, even if my claim should
prove satisfactory to those you appoint to investigate it, by which the neighborhood will not
be deprived of the happiness of your presence."

Mrs. Hazleton felt that she had made a great step, and as she well knew that there was no chance
of his proposing then and there, she resolved not to risk losing ground by any farther advance,
even while she secured some present benefits from that which was gained. "Well, well," she
said, "Mr. Marlow, I am quite sure you are very kind and very generous, and we can talk of
that matter hereafter. Only there is one thing you must promise me, which is, that in regard
to any arrangements respecting the house you will not leave them to be settled by cold lawyers
or colder friends, who cannot enter into my feelings in regard to this place, or your own liberal
and kindly feelings either. Let us settle it some day between ourselves," she added, with a
light laugh, "in a tête-à-tête like this. I do not suppose you are afraid of being overreached
by me in a bargain. But now let us turn our steps back towards the house, for I expect Mrs.
Warmington early, and I must not be absent when she arrives."

Mrs. Warmington was there already; for the tête-à-tête had lasted longer than Mrs. Hazleton
knew. However, Mrs. Hazleton's first task was to inform her fair friend and counsellor of the
cause of Mr. Marlow's being there; her next to tell her that all had been settled as to the
claim, by that tiresome man Sir Philip Hastings, without what she considered due deliberation,
and that the only thing which remained to be arranged was in regard to the house, respecting
which Mrs. Hazleton communicated a certain portion of her own inclinations, and of Mr. Marlow's
kind view of the matter.

Now, strange to say, this was the turning point of fate for Mrs. Hazleton, Mr. Marlow, and
most of the persons mentioned in this history. It was then that Mrs. Warmington suggested a
scheme which she thought would suit her friend well.

"Why do you not offer him in exchange--for the time at all events--your fine old house on the
side of Hartwell--Hartwell Place? It is only seven miles off. It is ready furnished to his
hand, and must be worth a great deal more than the bare walls of this. Besides it would be
pleasant to have him in the neighborhood."

Pause, Mrs. Hazleton! pause and meditate over all the consequences; for be assured much depends
upon these few simple words.

Mrs. Hazleton did pause--Mrs. Hazleton did meditate. She ran over in her head the list of all
the families in the neighborhood. In none of them could she see a probable rival. There were
plenty of married women, old maids, young girls; but she saw nobody to fear, and with a proud
consciousness of her own beauty and worth, she took her resolution. That very evening she proposed
to Mr. Marlow what her friend had suggested. It was accepted.

Mrs. Hazleton had made one miscalculation, and her fate and Mr. Marlow's were decided.

We always read the poems of Charles Mackay, who, though not of the highest class, even of the
living poets of England, is yet earnest, sensible, and good-hearted, and has always a point,
and generally some happy fancies, in his least considered pieces. He has published two collections
of short poems, one entitled "Voices from the Crowd," and the other and last, "Egeria, or the
Spirit of Nature," &c. from which we take the following specimens:

    WHY THIS LONGING?

    Why this longing, clay-clad spirit?
      Why this fluttering of thy wings?
    Why this striving to discover
      Hidden and transcendent things?
    Be contented in thy prison,
      Thy captivity shall cease--
    Taste the good that smiles before thee;
      Restless spirit, be at peace!

    With the roar of wintry forests,
      With the thunder's crash and roll,
    With the rush of stormy water,
      Thou wouldst sympathize, O soul!
    Thou wouldst ask them mighty questions
      In a language of their own,
    Untranslatable to mortals,
      Yet not utterly unknown.

    Thou wouldst fathom Life and Being,
      Thou wouldst see through Birth and Death,
    Thou wouldst solve the eternal riddle--
      Thou a speck, a ray, a breath,
    Thou wouldst look at stars and systems,
      As if thou couldst understand
    All the harmonies of Nature,
      Struck by an Almighty hand.

    With thy feeble logic, tracing
      Upward from effect to cause,
    Thou art foiled by Nature's barriers,
      And the limits of her laws.
    Be at peace, thou struggling spirit!
      Great Eternity denies
    The unfolding of its secrets
      In the circle of thine eyes.

    Be contented with thy freedom--
      Dawning is not perfect day;
    There are truths thou canst not fathom,
      Swaddled in thy robes of clay.
    Rest in hope that if thy circle
      Grow not wider here in Time,
    God's Eternity shall give thee
      Power of vision more sublime.

    Clogged and bedded in the darkness,
      Little germ abide thine hour,
    Thoul't expand in proper season,
      Into blossom, into flower.
    Humble faith alone becomes thee
      In the glooms where thou art lain:
    Bright is the appointed future;
      Wait--thou shalt not wait in vain.

    Cease thy struggling, feeble spirit!
      Fret not at thy prison bars;
    Never shall thy mortal pinions
      Make the circuit of the stars.
    Here on Earth are duties for thee,
      Suited to thine earthly scope;
    Seek them, thou Immortal Spirit--
      God is with thee--work in hope.

    YOU AND I.

    Who would scorn his humble fellow
      For the coat he wears?
    For the poverty he suffers?
      For his daily cares?
    Who would pass him in the footway
      With averted eye?
    Would you, brother? No--you would not.
      If you would--not I.

    Who, when vice or crime repentant,
      With a grief sincere
    Asked for pardon, would refuse it--
      More than heaven severe?
    Who to erring woman's sorrow
      Would with taunts reply?
    Would you, brother? No--you would not.
      If you would--not I.

    Who would say that all who differ
      From his sect must be
    Wicked sinners, heaven-rejected,
      Sunk in Error's sea,
    And consign them to perdition
      With a holy sigh?
    Would you, brother? No--you would not.
      If you would--not I.

    Who would say that six days' cheating,
      In the shop or mart,
    Might be rubbed by Sunday praying
      From the tainted heart,
    If the Sunday face were solemn,
      And the credit high?
    Would you, brother? No--you would not.
      If you would--not I.

    Who would say that Vice is Virtue
      In a hall of State?
    Or that rogues are not dishonest
      If they dine off plate?
    Who would say Success and Merit
      Ne'er part company?
    Would you, brother? No--you would not.
      If you would--not I.

    Who would give a cause his efforts
      When the cause is strong,
    But desert it on its failure,
      Whether right or wrong?
    Ever siding with the upmost,
      Letting downmost lie?
    Would you, brother? No--you would not.
      If you would--not I.

    Who would lend his arm to strengthen
      Warfare with the right?
    Who would give his pen to blacken
      Freedom's page of light?
    Who would lend his tongue to utter
      Praise of tyranny?
    Would you, brother? No--you would not.
      If you would--not I.

"A people among whom Charles Mackay is a popular writer," says the Dublin University Magazine,
"must possess largely the elements of greatness and the reality of goodness."

Second crime: A cold and deliberate attempt upon the life of Stenio Salvatori, on the public
square of Torre-del-Greco. The Count listened to this harangue without emotion. "Bring in,"
said the judge, "both the witnesses and the plaintiffs, for they have a double quality."

At this summons, a man of stern and moody aspect appeared, with his hair and dress in great
disorder. He was sustained by two others, and the group paused at the foot of the balcony,
where the judges sat.

"Your name?" said the Grand Judge, to the eldest of the three.

"Stenio Salvatori," said one.

"Your names?" asked the Grand Judge, of the other two.

"Raphael Salvatori--"

"Francesco Salvatori."

"You swear before God to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth."

"I swear," said each of them.

"Do you persist in your accusation against Count Monte-Leone?"

"I do," said they.

"The Count," continued Francesco, "presided over the Venta at Pompeia, where he was seen by
my brothers and myself. In our presence he administered the oath to two of the neophytes of
the society. They promised to contribute by every means in their power to the dethronement
of our well-beloved sovereign Fernando IV., and to destroy monarchy forever in our country.
The associates of the Count," added Raphael and Francesco, "discovered us listening to them,
and our energy and strength alone preserved us from their poniards."

"And my energy and strength," said Stenio, with an accent of rage, as he sprang unexpectedly
from the bench on which he sat and pointed to Monte-Leone, "were able to contend with difficulty
against the iron hand and poniard of this man." Then tearing up the cuff which hid his wound,
he showed the judges a deep and blood-stained stab. A feeling of horror took possession of
all the assembly. Every eye was fixed on Monte-Leone, who seemed unconscious of the sentiment
he inspired.

"The Count avenged himself on one of us, because we did our duty in denouncing him," said Francesco
Salvatori.

"He would have murdered us all had he been able," said Raphael.

"Stenio," resumed Francesco, "has atoned for all the family."

"And we ask," said Stenio, with a terrible voice, "we ask justice on the assassin! We demand
it of God, the king, and the judges."

The tall stature of Stenio, his pallor heightened by anger, and the bloody arm he intentionally
exposed, made such an impression on the spectators that a murmur of approbation ran round the
room. More numerous voices, however, soon drowned it.

"Count Monte-Leone, have you prepared yourself to reply to these accusations, or have you chosen
a defender?"

"I have."

"Name him," said the Grand Judge.

"My defender is Stenio Salvatori, my accuser."

Nothing could exceed the surprise caused by these words, not only in the minds of the three
witnesses, but of the court and public.

"Count," said the Grand Judge, solemnly, "you must remember this accusation is a solemn one;
that you are accused of two crimes, the punishment of which is known to you. Such an answer
testifies your small respect to this court, and must injure a cause which needs to be ably
defended."

"Signor," replied Monte-Leone, "it is because I recognize the great importance of the cause,
that I confide to this man the duty of exonerating me from it. He alone can do so: his mouth
alone, his lips, will demonstrate my innocence. Stenio Salvatori says, he saw me preside at
the Venta of Pompeia."

"I did," said Stenio, rising again.

"He says I stabbed him at his threshold in the town of Torre-del-Greco."

"I do," said Stenio.

"You see clearly, Signori," continued the Count, speaking to the court, "that this man is establishing
my case distinctly, as he saw me neither at Pompeia nor at Torre-del-Greco. The day on which
he, his brothers, and the people of the latter town, say they saw me, I was imprisoned in a
cell of the Castle Del Uovo, an impenetrable prison whence it is impossible for any human creature
to escape, and whence none saw me go."

Bravos filled the hall. The Count was triumphing.

"Signori," said the Grand Judge, rising, "such applause is an insult to the court, and if it
be renewed, the trial will be continued with closed doors." Silence was restored.

"Do not believe him," said Stenio, turning towards the auditors and showing his bloody arm.
"He was the person who wounded me."

"Justice shall be done," said the Grand Judge. "Signori, a series of secret and minute inquiries
instituted in the Castle Del Uovo, the examination of the employers of the fortress and the
confronting of the gate-keeper, a man of known piety, and the head jailer, one of the most
severe and incorruptible of Naples, have been unable to show how the Count Monte-Leone contrived
to escape from prison. In the face of such complete evidence of his having remained in the
prison, in the face of the report of the minister of police who visited the prison a few hours
after the commission of the crime at Torre-del-Greco, we could not but recognize the innocence
of the Count, and fancy that something had led to a mistake in his person. A strange and providential
circumstance makes us doubt the innocence of the Count, and though the means of his escape
from the castle be unknown to us, we persist in thinking him guilty as accused."

The interest and emotion of the audience was as great as it could be; and the words of the
Grand Judge were listened to with the most intense anxiety. At that moment three hearts almost
ceased to beat--that of the veiled woman, that of the young man who had replied to her signal,
and that of Count Monte-Leone, though his features were unmoved.

"The Count," resumed the Grand Judge, "possesses a family jewel, a ring of immense price, one
of the chef-d'oeuvres of Benvenuto Cellini. This ring he rarely lays aside, as we learn from
many witnesses, and a secret superstition induces him always to wear it. Did he hide it from
the jailers at the time of his incarceration, or did he obtain possession of it on his way
to Torre-del-Greco? This has not as yet been demonstrated: one thing, however, is certain,
he lost this jewel in his contest with Stenio Salvatori, who, having obtained possession of
it, placed it in the hands of his Excellency the Duke of Palma, as a positive and incontestable
evidence of the criminality of the Count. This mute witness is here," said the Grand Judge,
who as he spoke exhibited a sparkling brilliant to the audience.

The judges took the emerald, and silently looked at it. When the Grand Judge first spoke of
the emerald, the Count was satisfied that he was lost, and drops of icy sweat coursed down
his cheeks. But yet his courage and energy, even when he saw the emerald in the hands of the
judges, did not desert him, and he struggled against the new danger which had beset him in
so strange and unexpected a manner.

"This ring," said he, pointing to the emerald, "is a fortune in itself, and may have been stolen
from me."

The Grand Judge arose to reply, when an old man advanced toward the tribunal, pushing aside
all who opposed his passage, and in spite of the resistance of the ushers and guards, reached
the foot of the balcony on which the judges sat. With tears and an excited voice he said:

"The ring has not been stolen! It has not left our jewel closet, and I have brought it to the
judges."

"Do not believe him," said the Salvatori, "he deceives you. This is the Count's ring."

"Silence, impostors!" said the old man. "I learned yesterday, from public rumor, the story
of our ring being lost by Count Monte-Leone, the intendant of whom I am, and I have brought
the precious jewel hither to confound our accusers."

Nothing could equal the effect produced by Giacomo's words. The court itself participated in
the surprise, and the Grand Judge, making the old servant approach, took the jewel from his hand.

"Two rings!" said he, amazed; "two similar emeralds! Signori," said he, speaking to the court,
"this event again changes the face of this trial. One of these jewels is evidently a copy of
the other, such as the hand of a great artist alone can produce. There was, however, never
but one Benvenuto in the world, and it will be easy to distinguish his work."

The words of the Grand Judge increased the agitation of the crowd. The Count, whom his friends
thought saved, lost by the discovery of the emerald, and again restored by the testimony of
Giacomo, became every moment an object of new interest and more intense curiosity. If we must
use the word, pity for him increased. Every step taken seemed to bring his head nearer to or
to remove it farther from the executioner. Just here this event interrupted the session of
the court.

The judges retired to their room, the Salvatori to the witness chamber, until the experts,
whom the president had sent for, should come. The interval between the acts, however, was filled
by a touching episode which deeply excited the audience. Giacomo, taking advantage of the departure
of the judges, hurried to his master, fell at his knees, and covered his hand with kisses.

"Go back!--go back!" said the chief of the officers to Giacomo. "No one is permitted to communicate
with the accused."

Adding action to words, they seized the old man by the arm, and bore him from his master.

Giacomo however found time to whisper to the Count, "You are saved."

The crowd was so touched by the affection of the old servant, that it was near taking sides
with him against the officers who had interfered.

The veiled lady stood motionless as a statue and watched the scene. So abstracted and calm
did she appear, that it might have been supposed her eyes looked on while her mind was far
away. Her eyes, animated by a thousand sentiments, glittered beneath her veil. The young man
to whom she had made signals did not lose sight of her, and his whole soul seemed enchained
to the life presence and breath of this woman.

The experts came; the court resumed its sessions; the Salvatori entered. The experts were three
of the most skilful lapidaries of Naples, where the art of engraving on stone had reached the
greatest excellence. They approached the bar. The president said:

"On your soul and conscience, and by Christ your Saviour, you swear to tell the truth."

"We swear."

"Tell us which of these two rings is the work of Benvenuto Cellini."

"On my soul and conscience, and by Christ," said the first expert, after a careful scrutiny,
"this is the work of Benvenuto Cellini."

"And you, sir?" said the judge to the second.

"On my soul and conscience, and by Christ, this is the work of the great master."

"And this ring," said the judge, "what is it?"

"This is but a copy, compared with the original, of trifling value and fineness."

"Very well, Signori," said the Grand Judge, rising, and with a ring in each hand. "This ring
given me yesterday by the Duke of Palma, and by him received from the Salvatori, is an imitation
of Benvenuto Cellini's great work. The real ring of the Monte-Leoni, the chef-d'oeuvre, an
heir-loom of the family, has just been brought us by an old servant of that noble house."

The effect of the words of the Grand Judge was immense. He was silent, and with the other judges
consulted about the decree. A few moments after, with his hand on his heart, the Grand Judge said:

"After having carefully sought for traces of the double crime of which Count Monte-Leone is
accused--after having heard the public accuser, the proof is found most incomplete. It appears
that all the facts are based on the resemblance of Count Monte-Leone with some unknown person,
in relation to whose identity the Salvatori were mistaken. The court declares the Count Monte-Leone
innocent of the double crime imputed to him, and orders that he be immediately released. As
for you, the brothers Salvatori," continued the Grand Judge, sternly, "your hatred to the Count
Monte-Leone is well known. We interpret your conduct in the most favorable light, attributing
it to mistake, and not to cowardly revenge. If the counterfeit ring was fabricated at your
instance, to corroborate the accusations made against the Count, and justice should become
possessed of proofs of it, you would have to fear its rigor and punishment. If there be severe
laws for calumniators, those for assassins are yet more stern. You would in that case have
murdered Count Monte-Leone."

The Salvatori were amazed. The rage of Stenio was irrepressible.

"Beautiful justice! Do we serve the king so faithfully for his justices to treat us thus! I
repeat again," said he with an accent so terrible that it reached even Monte-Leone's heart,
"the Count was at Pompeia. He stabbed me. He is an assassin!"

He then left as he had entered, walking painfully, and leaning on the arms of his brothers.
When Stenio Salvatori, spoke thus, the Count had withdrawn, and the noise in the hall prevented
the judges from hearing him. The tumult was as great as possible in the hall, which hitherto
had been so calm and silent. The public seemed to move, shout, and become clamorous, as a recompense
for the constraint which had been so long enforced.

The beautiful woman in the recess, who had been so long impassible and motionless, seemed to
sympathize with the excited crowd, and lifting up her noble form to its full height, as the
Grand Judge spoke the last words, she threw aside her veil, and lifted to heaven her eyes,
full of gratitude and joy. She then looked toward Monte-Leone with an expression of the most
passionate love, and immediately letting fall her veil, as if to enwrap her sentiments in night,
left the room. Quickly, however, as she left, the first of the young men, whose conversation
was detailed in the early part of this chapter, had time to see her, and said to his companion:

"Signor, indeed you are fortunate. The lady of whom we spoke not long since, and whom you know
so well, is the very spirit of beauty incarnate, she is the most magnificent woman in the world.
It is La Felina."

"You think so?" said Taddeo Rovero, who had become yet paler when the singer threw up her veil.

"Yes, I think so," said the first speaker, with a smile, "and I am also sure you know so." He left.

In the mean time the friends and partisans of the Count surrounded him. Among them were the
chief nobles of Naples, for, as has been said before, the cause of one of the order became
that of all, and Monte-Leone's success was a triumph to all the class. Amid a proud and gallant
escort, the Count left the Castello Capuano. Scarcely had he left the door when enthusiastic
cries were heard on all sides. The people, who had been in the street since dawn, waited impatiently
for the result of the trial, for Monte-Leone was immensely popular. The crowd from time to
time heard the various incidents of the trial from persons who had contrived to get into the
hall. The rumors in favor of Monte-Leone were received with shouts of joy, and those injurious
to him with cries and curses. The sentence was hailed as a priceless boon by the crowd around
the Chateau Capuano. The people are everywhere, it is said, the same. The people of every country
are doubtless impressionable and easily excited. A kind of electricity pervades large bodies,
and the subtle fluid certainly is found everywhere. But among people of the south, under the
burning sun which scorches their brains, the Italians, and especially the Neapolitans, in their
public assemblies, attain a degree of fanaticism and exaltation, of which the people of the
north have no idea. The eruptions of their own Vesuvius are the only things to which the passions
of their populace can be compared.

When the Count and his escort left the court-room, the people literally rushed upon them. A
thousand hands, not half so seemly as those which already had clasped his own, were extended
towards his. These strong and sturdy hands seemed to promise him protection in case it should
be needful for him at any future time to seek it.

From this crowd of men with sternly marked features, shaded by hats of gray felt, there fell
on the Count's ear such words as, "Two hands pledged in friendship are but one!" Venta of Castel
la Marc.

"A dagger for ten enemies!" Venta of Capua.

"Our right, silence, or death!" Venta of Annunziata.

"Eyes to watch, and a hand to strike!" Venta of Pompeia.

To which the Count replied, by the word Speranza, accompanied by a clasp of the hand and a
significative glance.

"My friends," said a penetrating voice, "for heaven's sake give him air. The poor man has need
of air. We know you love him. He is the friend of the people of Naples, all know, but he should
not on that account be stifled. By the miracle of San Januarius restore him to me, restore
my master to me, you may have him soon, but now he needs the care of old Giacomo."

Giacomo took the Count's arm, and sought to remove him from the crowd which surrounded him.
The Count paid no attention to the old intendant. For a time, he strove almost to cast him
off, and stood looking anxiously at a person he saw in the crowd, and whom like a swimmer he
sought to approach. This person was his friend Taddeo Rovero. The young man sought in vain
to approach the Count. The tide of living beings seconded their wishes, and at last they rushed
into the arms of each other, forgetting, while thus enlocked, the world, their secret thoughts,
the past, and the present, and mingling together the tears of friendship.

"Air, day, sunlight, motion, life, life itself I have found. They woke up our existence; a
dungeon is death--"

Again he threw himself into the arms of Taddeo, with an expression of tenderness and happiness.

"Adieu, my friends," said he to the crowd. "Count Monte-Leone will never forget these proofs
of your sympathy, and you may rely on him, his arm, his heart, his fortune, as he does on you."

Taking Taddeo by the arm, he hurried into a neighboring street, accompanied at a little distance
by Giacomo, who, as he panted after them, cried out, "Too fast, too fast--what the devil can
I do? My legs are worn out--remember I came from the villa to la Vicaria on foot to bring your
ring to the Grand Judge."

"My ring!"--then looking anxiously at Giacomo, and in a low tone, he said:

"Are you sure it is my ring?"

"Yes, I swear to it by the blood of Christ and by your life."

"My friends," said the Count, "we have strange secrets to talk of when we are in a safe place.
And there the ear and lip must be close together, so that not even the walls of the room in
which we are shall be struck by the sound of our accents. Wait for me at the Etruscan villa.
In two hours I will rejoin you."

"Why not go thither now?" asked Taddeo.

"Two hours hence I will tell you."

Without speaking a word, and without listening to Rovero's reply, Monte-Leone put on a cloak
the old intendant had brought and passed into a labyrinth of passages, with the intricate windings
of which his political associations had made him familiar. An hour after the Count so brusquely
left Taddeo and the old intendant, he paused at the door of one of the most ancient churches
in Naples, an old pile, built in 1284, and called San Domenico Maggiore. It is of vast size,
built in the Gothic style, and has a magnificent picture of Titiano, the Flagellation of Caravaggio,
and in the sacristy a glory by Solimené. But not to contemplate them had Monte-Leone come to
the church. A deeply-rooted sentiment forced him, for a few moments, to pause beneath the old
portico before he entered the sanctuary.

Nothing is more touching, more poetical, and more mysterious, than the old Christian temples,
which like giants of stone have braved the ravages of time and the hands of men. Generations,
as they pass away, worship beneath their arches, and the prayers of many centuries have echoed
in their walls, which are yet open to coming time.

The deep notes of the organ attracted the attention of Monte-Leone and increased his excitement.
He crossed the church, went down the nave, and approached a lateral chapel where a taper was
burning with a flickering light. The Count entered the chapel. Those who had seen him amid
the brilliant society of Naples, or amid the awful judicial ordeal to which he had just been
subjected, and which he had undergone with such coolness and audacity, would not have recognized
the humble and trembling man, who knelt before a sarcophagus of black marble surmounted with
the coronet and arms of the Monte-Leoni. The Count knelt at the tomb of his father--his father,
who was his religion and his faith. He would have thought himself unworthy of his protection
had he not gone immediately on his release to worship those consecrated relics. Prostrate at
the monument he prayed with fervor. All the recent events of his life occurred to him. And
in the kind of hallucination caused by prolonged meditation, awake as he was, he entered the
realm of dreams. He seemed to see two genii seeking, the one to drag him towards heaven and
the other towards the abyss. The genii were two females. They recalled the features of two
charming and beautiful women, whom he remembered. One had the gentle and pale expression of
Aminta; the other, the more masculine and stately air of La Felina. The one which led him heavenward
was Aminta. The sound of the organ, the mysterious light which pervaded the chapel, the religious
effect of the whole scene, exaggerated the excitement of the Count, and contributed to add
to his nervousness. Two mild melancholy voices, like those of angels praying for the guilty,
mingled with the organ's notes, and Monte-Leone fancied that he heard in the distance the voices
of departed souls. The blood of Monte-Leone became chilled, for at that moment he asked his
father to reveal to him the future, and guide him in his perilous path. The song of the dead
seemed to reply to him. The Count, like other energetic and brave men, like Cæsar and Napoleon,
was very superstitious. We have seen him brave death without trembling, though it came in the
most terrible form. He who had struggled against the waves of the sea, and confronted the Grand
Judge of Naples, grew pale when he heard the de profundis chanted in an obscure church and
by the side of a tomb. By a strange fatality, nothing seemed wanting which could increase the
sadness of Monte-Leone. Just as he was about to leave the church the solitary light was extinguished.
The young man fancied this accident a declaration of the will of God. Terror-stricken, he left
the church, and did not regain his consciousness until he stood in the portico of the old temple.
In a few moments he shook off his idle apprehensions, but the sombre scene perpetually reacted
upon him, as we shall see hereafter. It left a deep trace upon his mind, and materially influenced
his subsequent life.

Two hours after he left the church, the Count rode on the horse of one of his friends to the
Etruscan villa, which, as we have said, was on the road to Castel la Marc. Giacomo was waiting
at the door for him, and taking a resinous torch, lighted his master to the strange room which
we described in the first part of this book. Things remained precisely as they were on the
night of the ball of San Carlo. The lights were burning, the hangings displayed their richness,
the Greek and Roman couches were arrayed, and a magnificent supper was prepared. There were,
however, but two covers, one for the Count and the other for young Rovero. By the side of the
Count's plate lay the emerald of Benvenuto, of which he had so miraculously regained possession.

"It is the emerald," said the Count. "Who brought it hither?"

"An officer of the court, from Signor San Angelo, the Grand Judge of Naples."

Monte-Leone looked at it again, and said, "It is one of God's own miracles."

"Not so," said Rovero, "it is one of Love's own;" and he gave the Count the letter of La Felina.

VI.--DRAMA.

While the trial of Count Monte-Leone thus excited the whole city of Naples, while Rovero under
the influence of a thousand emotions heard all its details, let us look back to what is going
on in the villa at Sorrento. The reader will excuse us, for thus transporting him from place
to place, for attempting to interest him in behalf of various personages, joining or deserting
them, as the plan of our story requires.

The novelist is like the weaver, who keeps in his hand the various threads of his woof, brings
them together and apart, until the time when his finished work rewards his toil. Like the weaver,
we shall unite, day by day, our threads, and gather them finally into one knot.

We left the Marquis of Maulear about to return to the villa, in search of assistance for Scorpione,
who had fainted. When people came to the hut, the mute had regained his senses. He knelt before
Aminta, who spoke to him with vivacity. What she said we cannot tell, for when she was interrupted
she ceased. The eyes of Tonio were red, and he seemed to have been shedding tears. The invalid
was taken to the villa, and so the matter seemed to end.

Maulear was not much engrossed by the suspicions he had previously conceived of Tonio, because
love for Aminta, supposing that such he bore, did not seem formidable. His apprehensions found
something far more serious. Was the heart of her he loved unoccupied? The strange episode of
the lost veil had not yet been explained. Yielding to the influence of passion, he had, when
he saw the young girl, forgotten every thing, and the sudden appearance of Scorpione, by rendering
it impossible for Aminta to answer him, complicated the matter yet more.

Just as Signora Rovero went towards the hut, where the Marquis had left the mute in a state
of insensibility, Aminta went to the villa, preceding those who bore Tonio.

"I will not again trust you with our patient," said Aminta's mother. "He always returns worse
than when he goes."

"Right mother," said Aminta, "henceforth I will not take charge of Tonio, for his new sufferings
have, I am sure, taken away the little sense he previously had."

Tonio, who heard what Aminta said, looked down and returned to his room, glooming angrily at
the Marquis as he passed.

"You are already one of us, Marquis, on account of the indiscreet request of my son. But neither
my daughter nor myself will complain of the pleasure he has thus procured us. Now," continued
she, "permit me to show you the most precious treasure in our house."

Leading Maulear to a little boudoir, next her chamber, she drew aside a curtain of black velvet,
and exposed a noble portrait of a man the size of life. "That is the portrait of my husband,
of Aminta's father; of a loyal and respected man, of an honest and influential minister."

Maulear was amazed at the appearance of the picture. The more he examined it the more the features
seemed to recall some one he had seen before. His memory, however, was at fault, and left him
in uncertainty.

"Strange," said he, to the widow of the minister. "It seems that I have seen these features
before. How can it be, though, that I ever met Signor Rovero?"

"My husband has been dead two years, and was never in France."

"And I have been but six months in Italy. It is then impossible that we ever met. The matter
is surprising."

They returned to the drawing-room, where Maulear found the White Rose of Sorrento either drawing
or pretending to draw, as a means of concealing her annoyance.

"Excuse me," said Signora Rovero to Maulear, "if I leave you for a time with my daughter. I
have some domestic matters to attend to, for Aminta's birthday will in a few days be here,
when we purpose a ball."

"A ball?" said Maulear.

"A ball; and Aminta and some of her young companions will compose the orchestra. You, Marquis,
will not, however, be forced to be present, for my son had no intention to annoy you thus.
It is enough for you to protect us, but to dance would be too great a requisition."

"Is it, then, the Signorina's birthday?"

"Yes, or rather it is the birthday of my happiness. Thus it ever is with mothers."

"It will then be mine also," said Maulear. "I am sorry her brother cannot be present."

"Taddeo is fond of us," said the young girl in a low tone, with her eyes downcast on her embroidery.
"But he does not love us alone." Aminta sighed with jealousy--and Signora Rovero left the room.
Maulear drew near Aminta.

"Signorina," said he, with emotion, "just now I opened my heart to you. Will you punish me
by silence, and not deign to tell me what I may fear or hope?"

"Signor," said Aminta, "perhaps I am wrong to reply to you. Perhaps I should ask you, in the
first place, to speak to my mother of the sentiments you entertain for me. But I will be frank
with you. Our first interview, my gratitude, my sincere esteem, control me. Besides, as you
have been informed, my education has not been that usual to my sex. I will therefore describe
to you my girlish ideas such us they are, such as my early education inspired me with, such
as reflection has developed."

Maulear looked at her with great wonder. Where he had expected surprise and embarrassment,
he found calmness and reason. Still, the voice in which these serious words were pronounced
had, however, so great an attraction and such melody, that the Marquis began again to hope.

"Different from most young persons of my age," said Aminta, "I am happy in my present condition,
contented with my mother and brother. I have often inquired what qualities I would expect in
my husband, and," said she with a smile, "I have found them. Perhaps those qualities are defects;
for they must be my own I assure you. I have been so petted that I can conceive of no happiness
except in finding myself, with my imperfections, ideas, and sentiments, mirrored in another."

"Then," said the Marquis, "no one can expect to please you, for who can be like you, and be
as precious as you are?"

"That may be an easier thing than you fancy," said Aminta, gayly. "Hitherto I have, however,
been unfortunate, for my suitors have been so superior that their merit terrified me. I was
afraid of the talents of one, and of the mind of another. Besides, Marquis, let me tell you,
that I am a little foolish and exaggerated. I think there are two existences in me, the one
awake, and the other asleep. In the latter, there pass such fancies before me, that I am often
frightened at them. I sometimes see the drama of life unrolled before me.--I am married and
unhappy--strange scenes take place around me, and he to whom my fate has been confided, makes
it sad and dreary as possible;--I am humiliated, outraged, and betrayed, and am, too, so much
afraid of marriage, that I think I would refuse the hand of an angel were it offered me."

As she spoke, Aminta's features became sad, and her eyes glittered with a sombre fire, like
that of the Pythoness announcing the Delphic oracle. Maulear was silent, and for a few moments
said nothing. In the mean time the young girl regained her presence of mind, and, ashamed of
her enthusiasm, sought to apologize for it.

"You will," said she, "laugh at my ridiculous whims. What, however, do you expect of a poor
child, raised like myself in solitude, uncultivated, and from character and taste a dreamer?
Such a creature must indeed be strange to a Parisian. Perhaps, though you do not wish me thus
to speak to you, such a creature has made a deeper impression on your imagination than on your
heart. The terrible circumstances of our meeting also, the romantic origin of our acquaintance,
may lead you into error in relation to sentiments which perhaps would be impotent, both against
the enticements of the world and against absence."

"Ah!" said Maulear, with chagrin, "if those sentiments were shared--if he who experiences them
were not indifferent to you, you, Signorina, would have confidence in them."

"I desire nothing better than to be satisfied that such is the case," said she, with charming
naïvete. "Time, however, is required for that, and we have been acquainted only for a few days."

"Are years then required for us to love?" said Maulear. "For that a word, a look, suffice."

"In France, perhaps," replied Aminta; "in your brilliant saloons, with your gay countrymen,
where all is so lively and spontaneous. Here though, in a modest villa, hidden by the orange
trees of Sorrento, a young girl's heart is not disposed of so easily."

"Yes!" said Maulear, "our hearts are lost when we behold you."

"Marquis," said Aminta, "I do not know what the future reserves for us; I however repeat that
I will always be sincere with you. Do not to-day ask me what I cannot give."

"What can you give me?" said Maulear in despair.

"Hope," said Aminta, with a blush, "that is all--"

Signora Rovero entered. Rejection and obstacles could not but surprise a man used as Maulear
was to rapid triumphs and easy conquests. He was now seriously in love, and passion had become
a link of his life. Suffering as he was from the uncertainty to which the reply of Aminta subjected
him, he could not but admire her prudence and modest reserve, which, as it were, placed her
heart beneath the ægis of reason. Besides, if, as Madame de Stael says, the last idea of a
woman is always centred in the last word she utters, Aminta, by what she had last said, had
delighted Maulear. She had said "Hope."

During the next day and the next day after, Signora Rovero and her daughter increased their
attention to Maulear, lest he should become weary of their solitude. This solitude to Maulear
was elysium. A pleasant intimacy grew up between Aminta and the Marquis, every hour revealing
a new grace to him, as he fancied the hour drew near when the ice of her heart would melt,
and she would find an image of her sentiments in him. One circumstance, however, troubled Maulear,
and aroused his jealousy. Towards the end of the second day, he sat in the saloon, leaning
on his elbow, and looking with admiration through one of the windows at the purple and magnificent
Italian sun. Aminta did not know that Maulear was in the saloon, and when she came in did not
see him. She had a letter in her hand. "From him," said she, as she hastily unsealed it; "what
does he say? Dear Gaetano, he has not forgotten me."

At the name Gaetano, Maulear turned around quickly, and under the influence of much emotion,
stood before her. She seemed a little surprised and disconcerted, and hid the letter in her
bosom. The words died away on the Marquis's lips, and he asked no question. His original distrust
returned, and he resolved to watch. On that evening Maulear was less gay and less entertaining
than he had been on the previous one. He observed that Aminta too was thoughtful. She has been
unable, said he, to read her letter, and that is the cause of her uneasiness. For a few moments
the young girl left the room, in which her mother and Maulear were. She is reading the mysterious
letter, said he to himself. Just then it chanced that Signora Rovero spoke of Gaetano Brignoli,
to whom she paid the greatest compliments. Aminta returned with an expression altogether changed.
Her face was lit up with joy, as expressive and animated as the tedium and thoughtfulness which
marked it had been profound. Maulear did not sympathize with her gayety, and she became every
moment more moody and sombre. Under the pretext of a headache, he retired to his room. New
thoughts assailed him. He looked out on the terrace where he had seen the unknown form. He
took the lace veil and examined it as if he now saw it for the first time. Men are often cruel
to themselves, and find a secret pleasure in turning the knife in the wound, and making their
suffering severe as possible. To tell the truth, when he thought of his conversation with Aminta,
and analyzed its phases, he was led by its elevation and frankness to blush at his suspicions.
After all, said he, the letter she received from Gaetano is perhaps only a child's-play between
them. It is but a secret between brother and sister, such as often exists, and to which it
is foolish to attach any importance. Amid this excitement, sleep overtook him, harassed as
he was between hope and fear, good and evil.

The next day was Aminta's birthday. All in Signora Rovero's villa were joyous. The gates of
the garden were opened, and all were gathering flowers. The young girls of Sorrento soon came
to the villa, and offered a magnificent chaplet of roses to the White Rose of Sorrento. The
Marquis of Maulear added his congratulations to the others offered to Aminta. An air of embarrassment,
however, was evident in every remark, and he could not forget the letter. Suddenly he saw Tonio.
He was approaching Aminta, who, when she saw him, hurried to meet him.

"Tonio, poor Tonio," said she, "my faithful companion and generous preserver, have you also
come to congratulate me on my birthday? You have not forgotten me, but are come to say how
you love me. You know how grateful I am."

Two tears fell on the mute's brow which was humbled before her. Tonio looked up, and his eyes
expressed the languishing tenderness of which we have hitherto spoken. One might read, in his
glance, the effect of that magnetic fascination exercised over him by Aminta. He seized her
hand, and kissed it so passionately that Aminta withdrew it at once. She however veiled her
action with a smile.

"Since," said she, "you are so well, my mother and I wish you henceforth to be at liberty,
and that you should have no domestic duty. You shall be our chasseur, and supply us with game--for
that is the only thing in which you take pleasure."

A feeling of pride was legible on Tonio's features. He took Aminta's hand again, and, as a
token of gratitude, placed it on his heart. He then looked proudly around on the peasants and
servants, and finally mingled with the crowd.

The day advanced, and the guests of Signora Rovero came to the villa. Count Brignoli and Gaetano
were not the last. Maulear could not restrain an expression of mortification when he saw the
latter, who, however, looking on him as a family friend, treated him most cordially and affectionately.
Maulear at dinner sat next to the Signora Rovero. He would have preferred the one usually given
him, next to Aminta. He had, however, one consolation. Aminta, seated at a distance from Gaetano,
could not maintain one of those private conversations with young Brignoli, which made him so
unhappy. Often during the meal he fancied that he saw certain signals of intelligence between
the young people, who had not yet been able to speak together alone. What however had been
a doubt became a certainty when he saw Gaetano point to the garden, and Aminta by a gesture
of assent reply to him. He had no doubt there was an understanding between Gaetano and Aminta.
He knew their rendezvous. From that time Maulear did not lose sight of them, and he suffered
every torture jealousy can inflict. The shock he received at the discovery was so great, that
he was unable even to reflect. He did not become offended at the perfidy of Aminta, but was
rather distressed by suffering, which was as great in the physical point of view as it was
in the moral. Reason only returned with reflection.

About nine o'clock the ball commenced. At the instance of Aminta, two of her young friends
went to the piano, and Aminta, taking advantage of certain orders she had to give, left the
room. Gaetano had already gone. The Marquis followed her. For a second he heard the light step,
which passed down the gallery, pause. The door of the vestibule however was opened, and pointed
out the route she had taken. He was afraid by opening the door of betraying his presence, and
therefore went into the garden by another direction, and making a short detour, soon was able
to follow the direction he had seen Aminta take. Passing beneath a group of trees which was
near the house, Maulear, with an attentive ear, followed stealthily as a deer the steps of
the couple he tracked--though he could not see. A demon had taken possession of Maulear's heart,
and enkindled it with rage. Certainly, within a few paces from him he heard a voice. It was
Aminta's. Another voice answered. It was Gaetano's.

"How I love you, dear Gaetano, for what you have told me."

"And how happy I am in your pleasure--"

"All then is understood?" said Aminta.

"All."

"We understand each other, and you will hide nothing from me?"

"Nothing."

"Your letter," said the young girl, "made me mad with joy."

"Dear Aminta--"

"Unless, indeed, my mother find out our secrets--"

"Fear not--the secret will be kept--tonight--"

"Yes, yes, to-night, certainly--"

"Rely then on me," said Gaetano.

Maulear heard a kiss. It struck on his ear like a dagger, and gave him such pain, that a sigh
burst from his lips.

"Some one overheard us," said Gaetano, "Go, go."

Aminta immediately disappeared. Before Gaetano had time to distinguish Maulear in his place
of concealment, the latter, become aware of the ridiculous part he was playing, hid himself
in the thicket, and with his hair dishevelled, his features distorted, and his heart distressed,
hurried to the house and shut himself up in his own room. His despair was indeed great; he
fancied he had been laughed at by a coquette, while he thought he had been the suitor of an
innocent girl. Why did she not tell me the truth yesterday, when I asked her? said he. Why
did she not avow her love of young Brignoli? She dared not confide it to me; because she makes
a mystery of it to her own mother. Why did she encourage me? Why did she speak of hope? What
unworthy plan, what improper calculation influenced her? What part did she intend me to play
in this drama of treason?

The old idea of Maulear--that sad fancy that women are only to be despised, and which he had
conceived from women only worthy of that estimate--took possession of him. He could not believe
he was a victim of mistake, or that the scene he had witnessed had any other motives than guilty
ones. Of what else could Gaetano and Aminta speak, than love? An hour afterwards, Maulear returned
to the drawing-room. His toilette was irreproachable, and his face, though pale, was calm.
One would never have recognized in this elegant gentleman, so calm and dignified, the person
who, an hour before, had heard with such excitement the conversation we have just described.
Maulear had reflected, and as soon as his first anger had passed away, had nearly conceived
an aversion for the young girl, whom he had almost adored the evening before. Revenge, too,
would be sweet. To accomplish this, calmness, coldness, deliberation were required.

The excitement of the evening prevented the absence of the actors in this scene from having
been remarked; besides it was a ball for young people, at which men of Maulear's age even were
not expected to dance. Gaetano, who was only eighteen, was the true Coryphoeus. Maulear approached
Aminta in the interval between two waltzes.

"You have a pleasant anniversary of your birthday," said he.

"A delicious one, Signor, I was never so happy."

At any other time the answer of Aminta would have delighted Maulear; now he fancied she alluded
to her love for Gaetano. This idea increased his anger. Midnight came, and those of the guests
who lived at a distance remained at the villa: the others left. All soon became calm, and the
house quiet. One man alone watched, for his bosom was irritated by the most exciting thoughts;
by anger, despair, and jealousy. He was awake, and wept bitterly over a passion, which it is
true had existed but a few days, but yet had taken deep root in his heart.

He was awake, and was indignant at the affront put on him. He was awake, for he had sworn to
be avenged. Thinking that he understood the meaning of Gaetano's words, he did not doubt but
that they had made a rendezvous for that very night. This rendezvous was not the first, for
Maulear knew the secret of the veil he had found on the terrace on the first night he had passed
at Sorrento. The veil belonged to Aminta, and the flitting shadow he had seen was the lady's
self. Her accomplice was Gaetano. How could he doubt? Interrupted in their first intercourse
by Maulear, they expected on another occasion to be more fortunate. No, cried he, that shall
not be, they will find me between themselves and happiness. I wish them to at least learn,
that I am not their dupe. I will cover her snowy brow with a blush, and avenge myself by disclosing
to her my knowledge of her secret. But how could he surprise them? Would they dare to cross
the terrace again? Perhaps, though, they can meet nowhere else. If so, they will brave every
thing, and in that case I must not alarm them. The Marquis took the taper, which lighted his
chamber, and placed it in a back room, which opened on the interior corridor of the house.
Carefully opening the terrace window, he took refuge behind a group of trees, exactly opposite
his room. The clock of Sorrento struck three--the night was clear and brilliant, and the sky
was strewn with diamond stars--the air was soft and warm. It was a night for love and lovers.

To Maulear it was a night of agony and torture. All around was so calm and tranquil that the
slightest noise fell on his ear,--he soon heard a door open. Maulear fixed his eyes on the
point of the terrace from which the sound proceeded--his whole existence seemed concentrated
in the single sense of sight. Something cloudlike, vapory and undefinable, which seemed too
ethereal for earth, gradually appeared at the extreme end of the terrace. This mysterious figure
seemed to glide, rather than walk, towards the place where Maulear was concealed; it approached
him slowly, without motion or sound to betray its steps. Wrapped in long white drapery, like
a mantle of vapor, resembling those creations of Ossian which formed often the clouds of evening;
in short, one might have believed that she had risen from the earth, and had come to dissolve
under the first rays of the sun, or of the moon. The phantom disappeared for a few seconds,
amidst a dark grove, which projected on the terrace the lofty trunks of large forest trees--but
when she emerged from their shade, and re-entered that portion of the terrace light and brilliant,
she approached so near to Maulear, that he was enabled to examine and recognize her.

This graceful and vapory phantom was Aminta. Maulear expected it, but he felt not the less
a distressing grief, in thus recognizing her. It seemed to him that the last plank of the wreck
had broken under his feet, and that he had fallen into the depth of despair. But soon anger
smothered the last cry of a love now no longer felt--and Maulear rushed in pursuit of Aminta,
when he saw her, to his great surprise, stop before the window of his apartment. Then reaching
out her hand she pushed open the door and entered the room, which was partially lighted by
the moon.

"What is she doing," said Maulear, with amazement, "what business has she in this room?"

An idea struck him. My presentiment did not deceive me. The first time she appeared on this
terrace, she was coming to this room which was once occupied by her lover Gaetano. Crossing
the terrace rapidly, he glided near the window with rage in his heart and his mind excited--for
a guilty project, which he would had he been cooler have repelled, attacked him, with all its
seductions. Without longer hesitation he returned to his room, shut the terrace door, and looked
in the dark for Aminta. Aminta, however, sat at a window which the moon did not light, and
which opened on the court of the villa. She seemed to listen anxiously to some distant noise,
perceptible only to her ear. So great was her preoccupation that she paid no attention to Maulear's
entrance. Surprised at this statue-like immobility, Maulear approached the young girl.

"Silence, Marietta," said she, without looking around, "I promised to see him go. He has kept
his word, for I yet hear, in the distance, the gallop of his horse. Bring the light and place
it in the window. He knows my room, in which we played so often when we were children, and
far down the road he will see it burning. My remembering him will please him. He will see that,
if he watches over me, I pray for him to bring me good news to-morrow--Gaetano is so kind."

"Gaetano!" said Maulear, in spite of himself.

"Yes--yes, Gaetano," continued the young girl, "will watch over Taddeo during this unfortunate
trial, for I know all. But say nothing, Marietta. Poor Taddeo--Gaetano has told me. His letter,
yesterday, comforted me. Taddeo is no longer compromised. Gaetano assured me. But this evening
in the park he confirmed all, and has promised to go to Naples to be present at the trial."

Aminta at once became silent, and sitting in an arm-chair near the window, appeared to sleep
soundly, for the noise of her breathing was alone heard. Maulear, erect, motionless, with an
icy brow, neither saw nor heard. A thousand confused ideas filled his mind. A revelation, strange
and unforeseen, put an end to his suffering and dissipated his fears, by exhibiting the incomprehensible
mystery under which he had been. Aminta was sleeping. Her sleep was of that somnambulist character,
so common in this country of moral and physical excitement. While dreaming, Aminta had told
and taught him every thing. She was innocent and pure. Yet in doubt, hesitating as the victim
does, who when he marches to punishment receives a pardon, wishing to convince himself of the
reality of all that passed, he went into the next room and came out with the light. Directing
the rays obliquely so that they fell on the downcast lids of Aminta, he placed the lamp at
some distance from her, and saw what till then no man had ever seen. He saw this beautiful
creature in a night negligé, enveloped by clouds of white drapery, which a troubled sleep had
gracefully disarranged. He saw a charming childlike foot half out of the slipper, glistening
silvery in the light. A prey at once to the greatest agitation and repentance at having suspected
her, Maulear fell on his knees. The motion thus made or some other circumstance aroused her.

"Where am I?" said she, looking uncertainly around her; seeing Maulear at her feet, she continued:

"A man here--with me--in my room--"

She sought to rise, but being yet under the influence of the half sleep, sank again on her chair.

"Be silent, Signorina!" said Maulear, in a low tone.

"You! you! Signor," said Aminta, recognizing him and drawing back with terror. "You at my feet,
at night, for all is dark around us, and the light is burning. But where am I? this room--it
is the one in which I promised Gaetano to place the light."

Passing her hand across her brow, to collect her ideas and wipe away her doubts, she said:

"But this is not my room. I occupy one next to my mother.... Ah, I remember; it was mine once,
but it was given to the Marquis, to you," said she, blushing. She arose. "And this night-dress,"
said she, looking at her disordered toilette, "in your presence--Signor," added she, clasping
her hands, "by your honor, I beseech you, tell me how I came hither."

"When you slept," said the Marquis, seeking to calm her.

"As I slept?" repeated the young girl, "as I dreamed.--Ah, I see, this sleep, this waking sleep
to which I am often liable. Ah! mother, mother, why did you not watch me?"

Concealing her face in her hands, she began to shed tears.

"Of what, Signorina, are you afraid? You are under the protection of my faith, honor, and love."

"Signor, I am lost if any one finds me here. Let me return," said she, attempting to go.

Just then a horrible cry was uttered out of doors. A mingling of the lion's roar and wolf's
howl, a very jackal's yell. It echoed through the villa, and was repeated by all the groves
and dells of Sorrento. It was uttered on the terrace. Thither Aminta and Maulear looked, and
saw a hideous spectacle. The face of Scorpione, pale, and denoting both ill-temper and sickness,
was pressed against the closed window. He moved to and fro, now rising up and then descending,
as if he sought some means to open the window and enter the room. His eyes, rendered more glittering
by hatred, cast glances of vengeance on Aminta and Maulear. His long wiry fingers passed rapidly
across the glass, which was the only object that separated them.

Aminta yielding to terror, caused by the sight of the monster, without any calculation or regard
of any thing except the violence of Scorpione, rushed into Maulear's arms in search of protection
and aid.

"Right, right," said Maulear, "no danger shall befall you while enfolded in these arms." Taking
her then towards the door of the corridor, he said: "Come, come, no danger can befall you here."

Scorpione, however, perceiving what Maulear was about to do, and seeing him going towards the
door, uttered a second cry more terrible than the first. He broke the glass, and sought to
reach the clasp which made the window fast. In the mean time, Maulear had reached the other
door, and was about to escape. He, however, heard steps hurrying from every direction down
the corridor. The cries of Scorpione had awakened all the house, and just as the wretch tore
open the window and precipitated himself into the chamber, relations, friends and guests of
the house, who had collected on the terrace and corridor, rushed in with him. Signora Rovero
was the last to come.

"My daughter!" cried she, running towards Aminta.

The poor tearful mother, not accusing that child whom her heart told her was innocent, without
anger on her lip or reproach in her eye, sought only to shroud Aminta's form in the garments
which scarcely sufficed to cover it, and in a calm and confiding voice listened to the explanations
of Maulear. The collection of all of these people, aroused from their sleep and grouped in
the half-lighted room, was a strange picture;--Signora Rovero holding her daughter in her arms,
Maulear with his hand lifted to heaven and protesting that Aminta was innocent, Scorpione with
his hands blood-stained by the broken glass, his hair disheveled, his looks haggard, and his
violence restrained by the servants, who kept the beast from rushing on the Marquis.

"Signora," said Maulear, speaking to Aminta's mother, "on my life and honor, I declare to you
that this young woman came hither without her own consent, and led by a blind chance."

Maulear was about to continue, when Aminta recovering her energy, said with a voice full of
emotion, but in a tone instinct with a pure and chaste heart:

"You need not defend me, Marquis; it is useless to repel suspicion from me. A young woman of
my character and name, the daughter of the Rovero, need not justify herself from the imputation
of a crime, which she would die rather than commit."

She could say no more, for her strength was exhausted, and the power of her mind had consumed
the artificial and nervous capacity of her body, which was greatly overtasked. Aminta was ill.
With her beautiful head resting on her mother's shoulder, she was taken to her room. All withdrew
in silence.

On the features of some, however, especially of the young men whom Aminta had rejected, an
incredulousness of such virtue might have been read. It was hard to conceive how she came to
be at midnight in the room of the Marquis of Maulear.

END OF BOOK III.

From Chambers' Papers for the People.

PUBLIC LIBRARIES.

We welcome the indications, now crowding upon us from every quarter, that the people of this
country are beginning to feel the importance of taking active measures for the establishment
and increase of public libraries. Large collections of books, open for common use, are at once
the storehouses and the manufactories of learning and science; they bring together the accumulated
fruits of the experience, the research, and the genius of other ages and distant nations, as
well as of our own time and land; and they create the taste, as well as furnish the indispensable
aids for the prosecution of literary and scientific effort in every department. In great cities
they qualify the exclusive spirit of commercial and professional avocations, and encourage
men to steal an hour from the pursuit of gain, and devote it to the attempt to satisfy a natural
curiosity and to cultivate an elegant taste. Connected with literary and academical institutions,
they supply the means and multiply the objects of study, and keep alive that enthusiasm in
the cause of letters without which nothing great or permanent can ever be accomplished.

The origin of libraries is involved in obscurity. According to some, the distinction of having
first made collections of writings belongs to the Hebrews; but others ascribe this honor to
the Egyptians. Osymandyas, one of the ancient kings of Egypt, who flourished some 600 years
after the deluge, is said to have been the first who founded a library. The temple in which
he kept his books was dedicated at once to religion and literature, and placed under the especial
protection of the divinities, with whose statues it was magnificently adorned. It was still
further embellished by a well-known inscription, for ever grateful to the votary of literature:
on the entrance was engraven, "The nourishment of the soul," or, according to Diodorus, "The
medicine of the mind." It probably contained works of very remote antiquity, and also the books
accounted sacred by the Egyptians, all of which perished amidst the destructive ravages which
accompanied and followed the Persian invasion under Cambyses. There was also, according to
Eustathius and other ancient authors, a fine library at Memphis, deposited in the Temple of
Phtha, from which Homer has been accused of having stolen both the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey,"
and afterwards published them as his own. From this charge, however, the bard has been vindicated
by various writers, and by different arguments.

But the most superb library of Egypt, perhaps of the ancient world, was that of Alexandria.
About the year 290 B. C., Ptolemy Soter, a learned prince, founded an academy at Alexandria
called the Museum, where there assembled a society of learned men, devoted to the study of
philosophy and the sciences, and for whose use he formed a collection of books, the number
of which has been variously computed--by Epiphanius at 54,000, and by Josephus at 200,000.
His son, Ptolemy Philadelphus, an equally liberal and enlightened prince, collected great numbers
of books in the Temple of Serapis, in addition to those accumulated by his father, and at his
death left in it upwards of 100,000 volumes. He had agents in every part of Asia and of Greece,
commissioned to search out and purchase the rarest and most valuable writings; and among those
he procured were the works of Aristotle, and the Septuagint version of the Jewish Scriptures,
which was undertaken at the suggestion of Demetrius Phalerius, his first librarian. The measures
adopted by this monarch for augmenting the Alexandrian Library were pursued by his successor,
Ptolemy Euergetes, with unscrupulous vigor. He refused to supply the famished Athenians with
corn until they presented him with the original manuscripts of Æschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides;
and in returning elegant copies of these autographs, he allowed the owners to retain the fifteen
talents (more than £3000 sterling) which he had pledged with them as a princely security. As
the Museum, where the library was originally founded, stood near the royal palace, in that
quarter of the city called Brucheion, all writings were at first deposited there; but when
this building had been completely occupied with books, to the number of 400,000, a supplemental
library was erected within the Serapeion, or Temple of Serapis, and this gradually increased
till it contained about 300,000 volumes--making in both libraries a grand total of 700,000 volumes.

The Alexandrian Library continued in all its splendor until the first Alexandrian war, when,
during the plunder of the city, the Brucheion portion of the collection was accidentally destroyed
by fire, owing to the recklessness in the auxiliary troops. But the library of the Serapeion
still remained, and was augmented by subsequent donations, particularly by that of the Pergamean
Library of 200,000 volumes,[19] presented by Mark Antony to Cleopatra, so that it soon equalled
the former, both in the number and in the value of its contents. At length, after various revolutions
under the Roman Emperors, during which the collection was sometimes plundered and sometimes
reëstablished, it was utterly destroyed by the Saracens at the command of the Caliph Omar,
when they acquired possession of Alexandria in A. D. 642. Amrou, the victorious general, was
himself inclined to spare this inestimable treasury of ancient science and learning, but the
ignorant and fanatical caliph, to whom he applied for instructions, ordered it to be destroyed.
"If," said he, "these writings of the Greeks agree with the Koran, they are useless, and need
not be preserved; if they disagree, they are pernicious, and ought to be destroyed." The sentence
of destruction was executed with blind obedience. The volumes of parchment or papyrus were
distributed as fuel among the five thousand baths of the city; but such was their incredible
number, that it took six months to consume them. This act of barbarism, recorded by Abulpharagius,
is considered somewhat doubtful by Gibbon, in consequence of its not being mentioned by Eutychius
and Almacin, two of the most ancient chroniclers. It seems inconsistent, too, with the character
of Amrou, as a poet and a man of superior intelligence; but that the Alexandrian Library was
thus destroyed is a fact generally credited, and deeply deplored by historians. Amrou, as a
man of genius and learning, may have grieved at the order of the caliph, while, as a loyal
subject and faithful soldier, he felt bound to obey.

Among the Greeks, as among other nations, the first library consisted merely of archives, deposited,
for the sake of preservation, in the temples of the gods. Pisistratus, the tyrant of Athens,
was the first who established a public library in his native city, which, we need not say,
always took the lead in every thing relating to science and literature in Greece. Here he deposited
the works of Homer, which he had collected together with great difficulty and at a very considerable
expense; and the Athenians themselves were at much pains to increase the collection. The fortunes
of this library were various and singular. It was transported to Persia by Xerxes, brought
back by Seleucus Nicator, plundered by Sylla, and at last restored by the Emperor Hadrian.
On the invasion of the Roman Empire by the Goths, Greece was ravaged; and on the sack of Athens,
they had collected all the libraries, and were upon the point of setting fire to this funeral
pile of ancient learning, when one of their chiefs interposed, and dissuaded them from their
design, observing, at the same time, that as long as the Greeks were addicted to the study
of books, they would never apply themselves to that of arms.

The first library established at Rome was that founded by Paulus Emilius, in the year B. C.
167. Having subdued Perses, king of Macedonia, he enriched the city of Rome with the library
of the conquered monarch, which was subsequently augmented by Sylla. On his return from Asia,
where he had successfully terminated the first war against Mithridates, Sylla visited Athens,
whence he took with him the library of Apellicon the Teian, in which were the works of Aristotle
and Theophrastus. Lucullus, another conqueror of Mithridates, was not less distinguished by
his taste for books. The number of volumes in his library was immense, and they were written
in the most distinct and elegant manner. But the use which he made of his collection was still
more honorable to that princely Roman than the acquisition or possession of it. But although
both Sylla and Lucullus liberally gave public access to their literary treasures, still their
libraries can, in strictness, be considered as only private collections. Among the various
projects which Julius Cæsar had formed for the embellishment of Rome, was that of a public
library, which should contain the largest possible collection of Greek and Latin works; and
he had assigned to Varro the duty of selecting and arranging them. But this design was frustrated
by the assassination of the dictator, and the establishment of public libraries did not take
place in Rome until the reign of Augustus.

The honor of having first established these valuable institutions is ascribed by the elder
Pliny to Asinius Pollio, who erected a public library in the Court of Liberty, on the Aventine
Hill. The credit which he gained thereby was so great, that the emperors became ambitious to
illustrate their reigns by the foundation of libraries, many of which they called after their
own names. The Palatine Library, formed by the same emperor, in the Temple of Apollo, became
the haunt of the poets, as Horace, Juvenal, and Perseus have commemorated. There were deposited
the corrected books of the Sibyls; and from two ancient inscriptions, quoted by Lipsius and
Pitiscus, it would seem that it consisted of two distinct collections--one Greek, and the other
Latin. This library having survived the various revolutions of the Roman Empire, existed until
the time of Gregory the Great, whose mistaken zeal led him to order all the writings of the
ancients to be destroyed. The successors of Augustus, though they did not equally encourage
learning, were not altogether neglectful of its interests. Suetonius informs us that Tiberius
founded a library in the new Temple of Apollo; and we learn from some incidental notices that
he instituted another, called the Tiberian, in his own house, consisting chiefly of works relating
to the empire and the acts of its sovereigns. Vespasian, following the example of his predecessors,
established a library in the Temple of Peace, which he erected after the burning of the city
by order of Nero; and even Domitian, in the commencement of his reign, restored at great expense
the libraries which had been destroyed by the conflagration, collecting copies of books from
every quarter, and sending persons to Alexandria to transcribe volumes in that celebrated collection,
or to correct copies which had been made elsewhere. But the most magnificent of all the libraries
founded by the sovereigns of imperial Rome was that of the Emperor Ulpius Trajanus, from whom
it was denominated the Ulpian Library. It was erected in Trajan's Forum, but afterwards removed
to the Viminal Hill, to ornament the baths of Diocletian. In this library were deposited the
elephantine books, written upon tablets of ivory, wherein were recorded the transactions of
the emperors, the proceedings of the senate and Roman magistrates, and the affairs of the provinces.
It has been conjectured that the Ulpian Library consisted of both Greek and Latin works; and
some authors affirm, that Trajan commanded that all the books found in the cities he had conquered
should be immediately conveyed to Rome, in order to increase his collection. The library of
Domitian having been consumed by lightning in the reign of Commodus, was not restored until
the time of Gordian, who rebuilt the edifice, and founded a new library, adding thereto the
collection of books bequeathed to him by Quintus Serenus Samonicus, the physician, and amounting,
it is said, to no fewer than 72,000 volumes.

In addition to the imperial libraries, there were others to which the public had access in
the principal cities and colonies of the empire. Pliny mentions one which he had founded for
the use of his countrymen; and Vopiscus informs us that the Emperor Tacitus caused the historical
writings of his illustrious namesake to be deposited in the libraries. The number of calcined
volumes which have been excavated from the ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii would also seem
to indicate that collections of books were common in those cities. But the irruptions of the
barbarians, who overran and desolated the Western Empire, proved more destructive to the interests
of literature than either volcanoes or earthquakes, and soon caused the disappearance of those
libraries which, during several centuries, had been multiplied in Italy. Those of the East,
however, escaped this devastating torrent; and both Alexandria and Constantinople preserved
their literary treasures, until their capture by the Saracens and the Turks, who finally subverted
the Eastern Empire.

When Constantine the Great made Byzantium the seat of his empire, he decorated that city with
splendid edifices, and called it after his own name. Desirous to make reparation to the Christians
for the injuries they had suffered during the reign of his predecessor, he commanded the most
diligent search to be made after those books which Diocletian had doomed to destruction; he
caused transcripts to be made of such as had escaped the fury of the pagan persecutor; and,
having collected others from various quarters, he formed the whole into a library at Constantinople.
At the death of Constantine, however, the number of books in the imperial library was only
6900; but it was successively enlarged by the Emperors Julian and Theodosius the younger, who
augmented it to 120,000 volumes. Of these more than half were burned during the seventh century,
by command of the Emperor Leo III., who thus sought to destroy all the monuments that might
be quoted in proof respecting his opposition to the worship of images. In this library was
deposited the only authentic copy of the proceedings at the Council at Nice; and it is also
said to have contained the poems of Homer written in gold letters, together with a magnificent
copy of the Four Gospels, bound in plates of gold, enriched with precious stones, all of which
perished in the conflagration. The convulsions which distracted the lower empire were by no
means favorable to the interests of literature. In the eleventh century learning flourished
for a short time during the reign of Constantine Porphyrogennetus; and this emperor is said
to have employed many learned Greeks in collecting books, and forming a library, the arrangement
of which he himself superintended. But the final subversion of the Eastern Empire, and the
capture of Constantinople in 1453, dispersed the literati of Greece over western Europe, and
placed the literary remains of that capital at the mercy of the conqueror. The imperial library,
however, was preserved by the express command of Mohammed, and continued, it is said, to be
kept in some apartments of the seraglio; but whether it was sacrificed in a fit of devotion
by Amurath IV., as is commonly supposed, or whether it was suffered to fall into decay from
ignorance and neglect, it is now certain that the library of the sultan contains only Turkish
and Arabic writings, and not a single Greek or Latin manuscript of any importance.

Such is a brief survey of the most celebrated libraries of ancient times. Before we proceed
to describe those of modern days, we shall offer a few remarks on the extent of ancient as
compared with modern collections of books. The National Library of Paris contains upwards of
824,000 volumes, and is the largest in existence. It will be easy to prove that it is the largest
that ever has existed.

The number of writers, and consequently of books, in the bright days of Egypt, Greece, and
Rome, could not have been very great. It must, on the contrary, have been limited by various
causes, which contributed powerfully to retard the composition of new works, and prevent the
multiplication of new editions. In fact, the histories of cities and of nations, together with
descriptions of the earth, which have become exhaustless sources for the writers of modern
times, must have been but sterile themes at a period in which history was confined within the
limits of a few centuries, and hardly a sixth part of the world now known had been discovered.
Add to these considerations the difficulties of communication, by which the inhabitants of
different countries, and often those of different sections of the same country, were kept apart,
together with the number of arts and sciences which were either wholly unknown, or confined
within very narrow bounds, and it will become evident, that for every thirty or forty authors
of the present day, ancient Europe could hardly have supported one or two.

Another circumstance which may be adduced in support of our proposition, is the fact, that
an increase in the number of readers leads to a proportionate augmentation in the number of
works prepared for their gratification. We have every reason to suppose that the reading class
of the ancient world was small in comparison with that of the modern. Even setting aside the
circumstance of the narrow limits by which the creative literature of ancient Europe was bounded--Greece
and Rome being almost the only nations whence new productions were derived--we shall still
be constrained to acknowledge the vast distance which separates the creative literary power
of modern from that of ancient times. Our schools, which abound with such a variety of class-books
upon every subject, bear little or no resemblance to those of Greece and Rome; nor can the
text-books prepared for our universities be brought into comparison with the oral instructions
of the old philosophers. Passing by, also, the subjects which have been opened to our research
by the discoveries of modern science, and confining our attention to the single branch of philosophy,
in the old sense of the word, which has always been more or less studied and disputed upon
since the days of the earliest Greeks, we shall probably find that the productions of any one
modern school outnumber those of the whole body of Greek philosophers. How much more would
the balance lean towards the moderns were we to add all the varieties of the French, German,
English, and Scottish schools, to say nothing of those whose tenacious subtleties have procured
them the name of schoolmen! If, going a step further, we consider that reading, which the peculiar
cast of modern civilization has classed among the luxuries of life, is one of those luxuries,
in the enjoyment of which all classes come in for a share, we shall find here also a wide distinction
between ancient times and our own. During that epoch of splendid decay, in which the immense
wealth of the Roman senators was found insufficient to satisfy the longings for new forms of
stimulant and of pleasure, their reading, as we are told by Ammianus Marcellinus, a contemporary
historian, was confined to the writings of Marius Maximus and Juvenal. What would they not
have given for a modern novel, or to what unlimited extent would the imagination have poured
forth its fantastic creations, had the art of printing been at hand to keep pace with the productive
powers of the mind, and the cravings of a morbid intellect? On every score, therefore, the
numerical difference between the intellectual wealth of ancient and of modern Europe must have
been decidedly in favor of the latter.

The high price of the materials for writing, and the difficulty of procuring them, must also
have been a great obstacle to the multiplication of books. When copies could only be procured
by the slow and expensive process of transcription, it seems impossible to suppose that a large
number could have been usually prepared of any ordinary work. Those of our readers who are
aware that only about four hundred and fifty copies of the celebrated Princeps editions were
struck off, will readily assent to the correctness of this opinion. The barbarous system of
ancient warfare must have also caused the destruction of a great many works, raised the price
of others, and rendered extremely difficult--not to say impossible--the accumulation of a very
large number in any one place. The difficulties which the bibliomaniacs of our own times encounter
in procuring copies of the editions of the fifteenth century, and the extravagant prices at
which some of them have been sold, are enough to show how small a part of an entire edition
has been able to pass safely through the short space of four centuries. How few copies, then,
of a work written in the time of Alexander, could have reached the age of Augustus or of Trajan!
With facts like these before us, how can we talk of libraries of 700,000 or 800,000 volumes
in the ancient world? When we find it so difficult at the present day, in spite of the testimony
of intelligent travellers, and of all the advantages we possess for making our estimates, to
ascertain the truth with regard to the great libraries of modern Europe, how can we give credit
to the contradictory and exaggerated statements which were promulgated in ages of the darkest
ignorance concerning ancient Rome and Alexandria? "After an attentive examination of this subject,"
says that eminent bibliographer M. Balbi, "it seems to me improbable, if I should not rather
say impossible, that any library of ancient Europe, or of the middle ages, could have contained
more than 300,000 or 400,000 volumes."

But even allowing 700,000 volumes to the largest of the Alexandrian libraries--that, namely,
of which a great part was accidentally destroyed during the wars of Julius Cæsar--allowing
the same number to the library of Tripoli, and to that of Cairo; and admitting that the third
library of Alexandria contained 600,000 volumes, and the Ulpian of Rome, and the Cordovan founded
by Al-Hakem, an equal number--it will still be easy to show that the whole amount of one of
these was not equal to even a fifth part of a library composed of printed books.

Every one who has had any thing to do with publication, is well aware of the great difference
between the space occupied by the written and that filled by the printed letters. It is well
known that the volumes of ancient libraries consisted of rolls, which generally were written
only on one side. Thus the written surface of one of these volumes would correspond to but
half the written surface of one of our books, of which every page is covered with letters.
A library, then, composed of 100,000 rolls, would contain no more matter than one of our libraries
composed of 50,000 manuscripts. It is well known, also, that a work was divided into as many
rolls as the books which it contained. Thus the Natural History of Pliny, which in the Princeps
edition of Venice forms but one folio volume, would, since it is divided into thirty-seven
books, have formed thirty-seven rolls or volumes. If it were possible to compare elements of
so different a nature, we should say that these rolls might be compared to the sheets of our
newspapers, or to the numbers of our weekly serials. What would become of the great library
of Paris were we to suppose its 824,000 volumes in folio, quarto, &c., to be but so many numbers
of five or six sheets each? Yet this is the rule by which we ought to estimate the literary
wealth of the great libraries of ancient times; and "hence," says M. Balbi, "notwithstanding
the imposing array of authorities which can be brought against us, we must persist in believing
that no library of antiquity, or of the middle ages, can be considered as equivalent to a modern
one of 100,000 or 110,000 volumes."

No one of the libraries of the first class now in existence dates beyond the fifteenth century.
The Vatican, the origin of which has been frequently carried back to the days of St. Hilarius
in 465, cannot with any propriety be said to have deserved the name of library before the reign
of Pope Martin V., by whose order it was removed in 1417 from Avignon to Rome. And even then
a strict attention to exactitude would require us to withhold from it this title until the
period of its final organization by Nicholas V. in 1447. It is difficult to speak with certainty
concerning the libraries, whether public or private, supposed to have existed previous to the
fifteenth century, both on account of the doubtful authority and indefiniteness of the passages
in which they are mentioned, and the custom which so readily obtained in those dark ages of
dignifying with the name of library every petty collection of insignificant codices. But many
libraries of the fifteenth century being in existence, and others having been preserved long
enough to make them the subject of historical inquiry before their dissolution, it becomes
easier to fix with satisfactory accuracy the date of their foundation. We find, accordingly,
that during the fifteenth century ten libraries were formed: the Vatican at Rome, the Laurentian
at Florence, the Imperial of Vienna and Ratisbon, the University at Turin, the Malatestiana
at Cesena, the Marciana at Venice, the Bodleian at Oxford, the University at Copenhagen, and
the City at Frankfort on the Maine. The Palatine of Heidelberg was founded in 1390, dispersed
in 1623, restored in 1652, and augmented in 1816.

The increase of the libraries of Europe has generally been slowly progressive, although there
have been periods of sudden augmentation in nearly all of them. They began with a small number
of manuscripts; sometimes with a few, and often without any printed works. To these gradual
accessions were made from the different sources which have always been more or less at the
command of sovereigns and nobles. In 1455 the Vatican contained 5000 manuscripts. In 1685,
after an interval of more than two centuries, the number of its manuscripts had only risen
to 16,000, and that of the printed volumes did not exceed 25,000. In 1789, but little more
than a century later, the number of manuscripts had been doubled, and the printed volumes amounted
to 40,000.

Far different was the progress of the Royal, or as it is now called, the National Library of
Paris. The origin of this institution is placed in the year 1595--the date of its removal from
Fontainebleau to Paris by order of Henry IV. In 1660 it contained only 1435 printed volumes.
In the course of the following year this number was raised to 16,746, both printed volumes
and manuscripts. During the ensuing eight years the library was nearly doubled; and before
the close of the subsequent century, it was supposed to have been augmented by upwards of 100,000
volumes.

In most cases the chief sources of these augmentations have been individual legacies and the
purchase of private collections. Private libraries, as our readers are doubtless well aware,
began to be formed long before public ones were thought of. Like these, they have their origin
in the taste, or caprice, or necessities of their founders, and are of more or less value,
as one or the other of these motives has presided over their formation. But when formed by
private students with a view to bring together all that has been written upon some single branch
of science, or by amateurs skilled in the principles of bibliography, they become more satisfactory
and complete than they could possibly be made under any other circumstances. Few of them, however,
are preserved long after the death of the original collector; but falling into the hands of
heirs possessed of different tastes and feelings, are either sold off by auction, or restored
to the shelves of the bookseller. It was by availing themselves of such opportunities that
the directors of the public libraries of Europe made their most important acquisitions. This
is, in short, the history of the Imperial Library of Vienna; and it can hardly be necessary
to add, that it was thus that the rarest and most valuable portions of that collection were
brought together.[20] It was thus, also, that the Vatican acquired, some twenty years ago,
by the purchase of the library of Count Cicognara, a body of materials illustrative of the
history of the arts, which leaves comparatively little to be wished for by the most diligent
historian. It can hardly be necessary to enlarge upon this subject. Every one who has engaged,
even in a small degree, in historical researches, must have observed how soon he gets out of
the track of common readers, and how dark and difficult his way becomes, unless he chance to
meet with some guide among those who, confining their attention to a single branch of study,
have become familiar with, and gathered around them almost every thing which can serve to throw
light upon it. And when a public institution has gone on through a long course of years adding
to the works derived from other sources these carefully chosen stores of the learned, it is
easy to conceive how much it must contribute, not merely towards the gratification of literary
curiosity, but to the actual progress of literature.

From these general considerations respecting modern libraries, we proceed to give some particulars
which may serve to convey an idea of the history, character, and contents of the principal
book-collections now in existence; and with this view, as well as for convenient reference,
we shall arrange them under the respective heads of British Libraries, and Foreign Libraries.

BRITISH LIBRARIES.

1. British Museum Library, London.--There is probably no other public institution in Great
Britain which is regarded with so great and general interest as the British Museum. By the
variety of its departments, this splendid national depository of literature, and objects of
natural history and antiquities, meets in some way the particular taste of almost every class
of society. The department of Natural History, in its three divisions of Zoology, Botany, and
Mineralogy, contains a collection of specimens unsurpassed, probably unequalled, in the world.
The department of antiquities is in some particulars unrivalled for the number and value of
the articles it contains. But the library is the crowning glory of the whole. If, in respect
to the number of volumes it contains, it does not yet equal the National Library of Paris,
the Royal Library of Munich, or the Imperial Library of St. Petersburg--in almost every other
respect, such as the value and usefulness of the books, the arrangements for their convenient
and safe keeping, and, in fact, in every matter pertaining to its internal arrangements, the
library of the British Museum, by the concurrent testimony of competent witnesses from various
countries, must take rank above all similar institutions in the world. Well may the people
of this country regard the Museum with pride and pleasure. The liberal grants of parliament,
and the munificent bequests of individuals, are sure indications of a strong desire and purpose
to continue and extend its advantages.

Some idea of the magnitude of the Museum, and of its vast resources, may be formed by considering
that the buildings alone in which this great collection is deposited have cost, since the year
1823, nearly £700,000; and the whole expenditure for purchases, exclusive of the cost of the
buildings just named, is considerably more than £1,100,000. Besides this liberal outlay by
the British Government, there have been numerous magnificent bequests from individuals. The
acquisitions from private munificence were estimated, for the twelve years preceding 1835,
at not less than £400,000. The latest considerable bequest was that of the Right Hon. Thomas
Grenville: his library, which he gave to the Museum entire, was valued at £50,000. The annual
receipts of the institution of late years, from parliamentary grants and the interest of private
legacies, have been about £50,000. The number of visitors to the Museum is immense. In the
year 1848 they amounted to 897,985, being an average of about 3000 visitors per day for every
day the Museum is open. On special occasions there have been as many as thirty thousand visitors
on a single day.

This noble institution may be said to have originated in the bequest of Sir Hans Sloane, who,
dying in 1752, left his immense collections of every kind to the nation, on the condition of
paying £20,000 in legacies to different individuals; a sum considerably less than the intrinsic
value of the medals, coins, gems, and precious metals of his museum. This bequest included
a library of 50,000 volumes, among which were 3566 volumes of manuscripts in different languages;
a herbarium of 334 volumes; other objects of natural history, to the number of six-and-thirty
or forty thousand, and the house at Chiswick, in which the whole was deposited. The Harleian
collection of manuscripts, amounting to 7600 volumes, chiefly relating to the history of England,
and including, among many other curious documents, 40,000 ancient charters and rolls, being
about the same time offered for sale, parliament voted a sum of £30,000, to be raised by lottery,
and vested in trustees, for the establishment of a National Museum. Of this money, £20,000
were paid to the legatees of Sir Hans Sloane, £10,000 were given for the Harleian Manuscripts,
and £10,000 for Montague House as a receptacle for the whole. Sloane's Museum was removed thither
with the consent of his trustees. In 1757, George II., by an instrument under the great seal,
added the library of the kings of England, the printed books of which had been collected from
the time of Henry VII., the manuscripts from a much earlier date. This collection was very
rich in the prevailing literature of different periods, and it included, amongst others, the
libraries of Archbishop Cranmer, and of the celebrated scholar Isaac Casaubon. His majesty
annexed to his gift the privilege which the royal library had acquired in the reign of Queen
Anne, of being supplied with a copy of every publication entered at Stationers' Hall; and in
1759 the British Museum was opened to the public.[21]

The value of the library has been greatly enhanced by magnificent donations, and by immense
parliamentary purchases. In 1763, George III. enriched it with a collection of pamphlets and
periodical papers, published in England between 1640 and 1660, and chiefly illustrative of
the civil wars in the time of Charles I., by whom the collection was commenced. Among other
valuable acquisitions may be mentioned Garrick's collection of old English plays, Mr. Thomas
Tyrwhitt's library, Sir William Musgrave's collection of biography, the general library of
the Rev. C. M. Cracherode, the libraries of M. Ginguené, Baron de Moll, Dr. Burney, and Sir
R. C. Hoare; and above all, the bequest of Major Arthur Edwards, who left to it his noble library,
and £7000 as a fund for the purchase of books. Four separate collections of tracts, illustrative
of the revolutionary history of France, have been purchased at different times by the trustees,
in the exercise of the powers with which they are invested. One of these was the collection
formed by the last president of the parliament at Bretagne, at the commencement of the revolution;
two others extended generally throughout the whole revolutionary period; and the fourth consisted
of a collection of tracts, published during the reign of the Hundred Days in 1815--forming
altogether a body of materials for the history of the revolution as complete in regard to France
as the collection of pamphlets and tracts already mentioned is with respect to the civil wars
of England in the time of Charles I. Another feature of the Museum Library is its progressive
collection of newspapers, from the appearance of the first of these publications in 1588. Sir
Hans Sloane had formed a great collection for his day. But to this was added, in 1818, the
Burney collection, purchased at the estimated value of £1000; and since that period the Commissioners
of Stamps have continued regularly to forward to the Museum, copies of all newspapers deposited
by the publishers in their office.

In 1823, the Royal Library collected by George III. was presented to the British nation by
his successor George IV., and ordered by parliament to be added to the library of the British
Museum, but to be kept for ever separate from the other books in that institution. The general
plan of its formation appears to have been determined on by George III., soon after his accession
to the throne; and the first extensive purchase made for it was that of the library of Mr.
Joseph Smith, British consul at Venice, in 1762, for which his majesty paid about £10,000.
In 1768 Mr. (afterwards Sir Frederick) Barnard, the librarian, was despatched to the continent
by his majesty; and as the Jesuits' houses were then being suppressed and their libraries sold
throughout Europe, he was enabled to purchase, upon the most advantageous terms, a great number
of very valuable books, including some very remarkable rarities, in France, Italy, and Germany.
Under the judicious directions of Mr. Barnard, the entire collection was formed and arranged;
it was enlarged during a period of sixty years, by an annual expenditure of about £2000, and
it is in itself, perhaps, one of the most complete libraries of its extent that was ever formed.
It contains selections of the rarest kind, particularly of scarce books which appeared in the
first ages of the art of printing. It is rich in early editions of the classics, in books from
the press of Caxton, in English history, and in Italian, French, and Spanish literature; and
there is likewise a very extensive collection of geography and topography, and of the transactions
of learned academies. The number of books in this library is 65,250, exclusively of a very
numerous assortment of pamphlets; and it appears to have cost, in direct outlay, about £130,000,
but it is estimated as worth at least £200,000.

The nucleus of the department of manuscripts at the British Museum was formed by the Harleian,
Sloanean, and Cottonian collections. To these George II. added, in 1757, the manuscripts of
the ancient royal library of England. Of these, one of the most remarkable is the "Codex Alexandrinus;"
a present from Cyril, patriarch of Constantinople, to King Charles I. It is in four quarto
volumes, written upon fine vellum, probably between the fourth and sixth centuries, and is
believed to be the most ancient manuscript of the Greek Bible now extant. Many of the other
manuscripts came into the royal collection at the time when the monastic institutions of Britain
were destroyed; and some of them still retain upon their spare leaves the honest and hearty
anathemas which the donors denounced against those who should alienate or remove the respective
volumes from the places in which they had been originally deposited. This collection abounds
in old scholastic divinity, and possesses many volumes, embellished by the most expert illuminators
of different countries, in a succession of periods down to the sixteenth century. In it are
also preserved an assemblage of the domestic music-books of Henry VIII., and the "Basilicon
Doron" of James I. in his own handwriting. The Cottonian collection, which was purchased for
the use of the public in 1701, and annexed by statute to the British Museum in 1753, consists
of 861 manuscript volumes, including "Madox's Collections on the Exchequer," in ninety-four
volumes, besides many precious documents connected with our domestic and foreign history, about
the time of Elizabeth and James. It likewise contains numerous registers of English monasteries;
a rich collection of royal and other original letters; and the manuscript called the "Durham
Book," being a copy of the Latin Gospels, with an interlinear Saxon gloss, written about the
year 800, illuminated in the most elaborate style of the Anglo-Saxons, and believed to have
once belonged to the venerable Bede. The Harleian collection is still more miscellaneous, though
historical literature in all its branches forms one of its principal features. It is particularly
rich in heraldic and genealogical manuscripts; in parliamentary and legal proceedings; in ancient
records and abbey registers; in manuscripts of the classics, amongst which is one of the earliest
known of Homer's "Odyssey;" in missals, antiphonars, and other service-books of the Catholic
Church; and in ancient English poetry. It possesses two very early copies of the Latin Gospels,
written in gold letters; and also contains a large number of splendidly illuminated manuscripts,
besides an extensive mass of correspondence. It further includes about three hundred manuscript
Bibles or Biblical books, in Hebrew, Chaldaic, Greek, Arabic, and Latin; nearly two hundred
volumes of writings of the fathers of the church; and a number of works on the arts and sciences,
among which is a tract on the steam-engine, with plans, diagrams, and calculations by Sir Samuel
Morland. The Sloanean collection consists principally of manuscripts on natural history, voyages
and travels, on the arts, and especially on medicine.

In 1807 the collection of manuscripts formed by the first Marquis of Lansdowne was added to
these libraries, having been purchased by parliament for £4925. It consists of 1352 volumes,
of which 114 are Lord Burleigh's state papers, 46 Sir Julius Cæsar's collections respecting
the reigns of Elizabeth and James I., and 108 the historical collections of Bishop Kennet.
Other valuable collections are the classical manuscripts of Dr. Charles Burney, the Oriental
manuscripts collected by Messrs. Rich and Hull, and the Egyptian papyri presented by Sir J.
G. Wilkinson. It would be endless, however, to enumerate these treasures; we have indicated
enough to convince our readers that the library of the British Museum is worthy of the nation
to which it belongs.

2. Bodleian Library, Oxford.--This institution, so called from the name of its illustrious
founder, was established towards the close of the reign of Elizabeth by Sir Thomas Bodley,
who, having become disgusted with some court intrigues, resigned all his employments about
the year 1597, and resolved to spend the remainder of his life in a private station. For the
effecting whereof I found myself furnished in a competent proportion of such four kinds of
aids, as, unless I had them all, there was no hope of good success. Having set himself this
task--"a task," as his friend Camden justly says, "that would have suited the character of
a crowned head"--Bodley despatched from London a letter to the vice-chancellor, offering not
only to restore the building, but to provide a fund for the purchase of books, and the maintenance
of proper officers. This offer being thankfully accepted, he commenced his undertaking by presenting
to the library a large collection of books purchased on the continent, and valued at £10,000.
He also collected 1294 rare manuscripts, which were afterwards increased to 6818, independently
of 1898 in the Ashmolean Museum. Other collections and contributions were also, by his example
and persuasion, presented to the new library; and the additions thus made soon swelled to such
an amount that the old building was no longer sufficient to contain them. The edifice was accordingly
enlarged; and Bodley thus had the proud satisfaction of seeing Oxford possessed, by his means,
of such a library as might well bear comparison with the proudest in continental Europe. It
would require a volume to contain an enumeration of the many important additions which have
been made to this library by its numerous benefactors, or to admit even a sketch of its ample
contents in almost every branch of literature and science. The Oriental manuscripts are the
rarest and most beautiful to be found in any European collection; and the first editions of
the classics, procured from the Pinelli and Crevenna libraries, rival those of Vienna. In a
word, it is exceedingly rich in many departments in which most other libraries are deficient,
and it forms altogether one of the noblest collections of which any university can boast.

3. University Library, Cambridge.--This is a library of considerable extent, and contains much
that is valuable or curious both in the department of printed books and in that of manuscripts.
The printed books comprise a fine series of editiones principes of the classics, and a very
large proportion of the productions of Caxton's press. Among the manuscripts contained in it
are the celebrated manuscript of the four Gospels and Acts of the Apostles, known by the name
of the Codex Bezæ, which was presented to the university by that distinguished reformer; Magna
Charta, written on vellum; and a Koran upon cotton paper superbly executed. In the library
of Trinity College, Cambridge, there are several exceedingly interesting literary curiosities;
amongst others, some manuscripts in the handwriting of Milton, consisting of the original copy
of the "Masque of Comus," several plans of "Paradise Lost," and the poems of "Lycidas," "Arcades,"
and others; and also Sir Isaac Newton's copy of his "Principia," with his manuscript notes,
and his letters to Roger Coles.

4. Advocates' Library, Edinburgh.--This library was founded in 1682, at the instance of Sir
George Mackenzie of Rosehaugh, who was at that time Dean of Faculty, and the plan was carried
into execution on a small scale, by a fund which had been formed out of the fines of members.
It was originally intended that it should consist merely of the works of lawyers, and of such
other books as were calculated to advance the study of jurisprudence; it now comprehends, in
a greater or less degree, almost every branch of science, philosophy, jurisprudence, literature,
and the arts. Its collection of historical works is very complete. Among the curiosities shown
to visitors are a manuscript Bible of St. Jerome's translation, believed to have been written
in the eleventh century, and known to have been used as the conventual copy of the Scriptures
in the Abbey of Dunfermline; a copy of the first printed Bible, in two volumes, from the press
of Faust and Guttenberg; the original Solemn League and Covenant, drawn up in 1580; and six
copies of the Covenant of 1638. Among other manuscripts in the collection are the whole of
the celebrated Wodrow Manuscripts, relating to the ecclesiastical history of Scotland, and
the chartularies of many of the ancient religious houses. For its extent, no less than for
the liberal principles upon which it is conducted, this deserves the name of the National Library
of Scotland.

5. Trinity College Library, Dublin.--This library owed its establishment to a very curious
incident. In the year 1603, the Spaniards were defeated by the English at the battle of Kinsale;
determined to commemorate their victory by some permanent monument, the soldiers collected
among themselves the sum of £1800, which they agreed to apply to the purchase of books for
a public library, to be founded in the then infant institution of Trinity College. This sum
was placed in the hands of the celebrated Dr. Usher, who immediately proceeded to London, and
there purchased the books necessary for the purpose. It is a remarkable coincidence, that Usher,
while occupied in purchasing these books, met in London Sir Thomas Bodley engaged in similar
business, with a view to the establishment of his famous library at Oxford. From this commencement,
the library of Trinity College was, at different periods, increased by many valuable donations,
including that of Usher's own collection, consisting of 10,000 volumes, until at length its
growing magnitude requiring a corresponding increase of accommodation, the present library-hall,
a magnificent apartment of stately dimensions, was erected in the year 1732. Since that time
numerous additions have been made to the library: amongst others, that of the library of the
Pensionary Fagel, in 20,000 volumes, and the valuable classical and Italian books which had
belonged to Mr. Quin; so that, altogether, the library of Trinity College now forms one of
the first order, at least in this country.

The five libraries thus briefly described are the principal ones in the United Kingdom, and
they are all entitled to receive a copy of every new work on its publication; so that they
are continually on the increase, and enabled to keep pace with the activity of the press. Of
the numerous other libraries in this country we have no space to give a detailed account, and
must therefore content ourselves with merely indicating the names of the more extensive ones.
In London are the libraries of the Royal Society and the Royal Institution; Sion College Library;
Archbishop Tenison's Library; and Dr. Williams's Library, belonging to the Dissenters. The
Lambeth Library of the Archbishop of Canterbury is exceedingly rich in ecclesiastical history
and biblical literature. At Oxford and Cambridge, all the different colleges have libraries
more or less extensive and valuable. Chetham's Library at Manchester is also worthy of mention.
The library of the Writers to the Signet at Edinburgh is an excellent and valuable miscellaneous
collection of books in science, law, history, geography, statistics, antiquities, literature,
and the arts. Finally, the Scotch universities of Edinburgh, Glasgow, St. Andrews, and Aberdeen,
all possess academical libraries of considerable size, and which are steadily on the increase.
Many of the above receive an annual grant of money from government, as a compensation for the
withdrawal of the privilege of receiving copies of every book published in the kingdom. All
such, at least, ought to be thrown open to the public, and doubtless soon will be.

FOREIGN LIBRARIES.

1. National Library, Paris.--This library is justly considered as the finest in Europe. It
was commenced under the reign of King John, who possessed only ten volumes, to which 900 were
added by Charles V., many of them superbly illuminated by John of Bruges, the best artist in
miniatures of that time. Under Francis I. it had increased to 1890 volumes, and under Louis
XIII. to 16,746. In 1684 it possessed 50,542 volumes; in 1775 it amounted to above 150,000;
and by 1790 it had increased to about 200,000. At present it contains 824,000 volumes of printed
books, and 80,000 manuscripts. It is divided into four departments:--1. Printed books; 2. Manuscripts,
charters, and diplomas; 3. Coins, medals, engraved stones, and other antique monuments; and
4. Engravings, including geographical charts and plans. Of the contents of this magnificent,
nay, matchless collection, it would far exceed our limits to give any details, or even to enumerate
its choicest articles. It is rich in every branch and department, unique in some, scarcely
surpassed in any, and unrivalled in all taken together. Of books printed on vellum it contains
at once the finest and most extensive collection in the world.

2. Arsenal Library, Paris.--This library, founded by the Marquis de Paulmy, formerly ambassador
of France in Poland, was in 1781 acquired by the Count d'Artois, who united to it nearly the
whole of the library of the Duke de la Valliere. It possesses the most complete collection
extant of romances, since their origin in modern literature; of theatrical pieces or dramas,
from the epoch of the Moralities and Mysteries; and of French poetry since the commencement
of the sixteenth century. It is less rich in other branches, but it has all works of importance,
and in particular contains historical collections which are not to be found elsewhere.

3. Library of Ste Genevieve, Paris.--The foundation of this library dates as early as the year
1624, when Cardinal de Rochefoucauld, having reformed the Abbey of Sainte-Genevieve, made it
a present of 600 volumes. At present it contains 160,000 printed volumes and 2000 manuscripts.
In it may be found all the academical collections, and a complete set of Aldines; it is particularly
rich in historical works; and its most remarkable manuscripts are Greek and Oriental. Its typographical
collections of the fifteenth century are not more valuable for their number than the high state
of preservation in which they are found. This library is open of an evening, and is much resorted
to by students, and men of the operative classes.

4. Mazarin Library, Paris.--This library, as its name denotes, was instituted by Cardinal Mazarin.
The formation of it was intrusted to the learned Gabriel Naudé, who, having first selected
all that suited his purpose in the booksellers' shops in Paris, travelled into Holland, Italy,
Germany, and England, where the letters of recommendation of which he was the bearer enabled
him to collect many very rare and curious works. Cardinal Mazarin, by his will, bequeathed
it to the college which he founded, and in 1688 it was made public. It is remarkable for a
great number of collections containing detached pieces and small treatises, which date as far
back as the fifteenth century, and exist nowhere else; nor has any other library so complete
a body of the ancient books of law, theology, medicine, and the physical and mathematical sciences.
It also possesses a most precious collection of the Lutheran or Protestant authors. In one
of the halls are placed models in relief of the Pelasgic monuments of Italy and Greece; in
another is a terrestrial globe, eighteen feet in diameter, formed of plates of copper, and
executed by order of Louis XVI.; but this instrument, which is unique in Europe, is unfortunately
unfinished, being destitute of several requisite circles.

5. National Library, Madrid.--This "is one of the many institutions which awaken the admiration
of the stranger in Spain, as being at variance with the pervading decay." According to Mr.
Ford, "it is rich in Spanish literature, especially theology and topography, and has been much
increased numerically since the suppression of the convents; but good modern books are needed."
It contains many valuable Greek, Latin, and Arabic manuscripts, and unedited works, chiefly
Spanish. The Monetario, or cabinet of medals, is arranged in an elegant and beautiful apartment,
and contains an unrivalled collection of Celtic, Phoenician, Greek, Roman, Gothic, Arabic,
and modern coins and medals, in excellent preservation. The library is open to all, at least
as far as the printed books are concerned.

6. Vatican Library, Rome.--Among the libraries of Italy, that of the Vatican at Rome stands
preëminent, not more for its grandeur and magnificence, than for the inestimable treasures
with which it is enriched. It was originated about the year 465 by Pope Hilary, and has been
augmented by succeeding pontiffs, and by various princes, until it reached its present extent
and value. Our space will not permit us to give any thing like a detailed account of its treasures;
but we condense from Sir George Head's admirable work on Rome the following description of
the grand saloon of the library:--"The principal chamber of the library appears to be 179 feet
long by 51 broad. The ceiling is remarkable for presenting to the eye the appearance of a uniform
extensive surface, as if it were a beautifully broad elliptical vault, though in fact it consists
of a double range of groined arches that, springing on each side from the walls, and blending
together in the middle, are supported on a row of six pillars planted in a line on the ground.
These pillars are contrived, accordingly, of an oblong shape, so extremely narrow that, planted
as they are longitudinally, and encompassed by large rectangular mahogany bookcases to serve
as pedestals, they occupy but an inconsiderable space in the apartment when viewed edgewise
by a spectator standing at the entrance, and from their form effectually counteract the appearance
of weight, that would certainly otherwise be produced by the double vaulting. Moreover, while
the lines of curvature slide as it were thus gently and harmoniously into the outline of the
pillars, the transition of surface is the less perceptible, owing to the whole of the vault
and pillars being painted in a uniform delicate pattern of arabesque, by Zuccari, as it is
affirmed; but at all events, in figures of plants and flowers, almost as light and exquisite
as the paintings on a china teacup, and thrown into relief by the prevalence of a clear white
ground; so that an appearance is produced of airiness and space to all intents and purposes
as effective as if the ceiling were really contained within the span of a single elliptical
arch. Along the base of the ceiling is a cornice of stucco, ornamented with a light pattern
in white and gold; and underneath, upon the upper portion of the walls, are six windows on
each side; and the remainder of the surface is covered with paintings by several different
artists, one of which represents Sixtus V. receiving from his architect, Dominico Fontana,
the plan of the present library. The lower portion of the walls is entirely occupied by closed
bookcases, composed of panels of wood painted in arabesque on a ground of white and slate color,
and surrounded by gilded mouldings; which receptacles bear no sort of affinity in appearance
to ordinary library furniture, and thoroughly conceal from public view the valuable manuscripts
they contain. No books, in fact, are to be seen in the whole chamber, and particularly the
rectangular bookcases above referred to, that serve the purpose of pedestals, from the middle
of which each pillar supporting the ceiling and resting on the ground below rise, as the pier
of a bridge from its ceisson, rather resemble ornamental buffets upon whose tabular surface
vases and other splendid objects of art and antiquity are arranged in order.

"With regard to the principal objects worthy of observation there are, in the first place,
two very magnificent tables, both alike, placed in the middle of the room in a corresponding
position to one another, between the first and second pillar at each extremity. Each is composed
of an enormously thick and very highly polished slab of red Oriental granite, supported by
six bronze figures of slaves as large as life. Such being the appropriation of two of the intercolumnial
spaces, a third is occupied by a low column of Cipollino marble, serving as a pedestal to support
a splendid and very large vase of Sevres china, which was presented by the Emperor Napoleon
to Pius VII. In a fourth intercolumnial space is to be seen, supported on a pedestal of Cipollino,
whose base appears to be a sort of alabaster marked with different shades of olive-green, a
square tazza of malachite, presented to Gregory XVI. by the Crown-Prince of Russia, after his
visit to Rome in 1838. In the fifth intercolumnial space are a magnificent pair of candelabra
of Sevres china, brought by Pius VII. from Paris, and also a splendid vase of the same material
presented to his holiness by Charles X. There is also to be observed, placed at the extremity
of the room, on the right-hand side near the wall, a spirally fluted column of Oriental alabaster,
which was discovered near the church of St. Eusebio, on the Esquiline; and suspended against
the wall, not far distant, is a curious old Russian calendar painted on wood.

"The bookcases being continually locked, as above stated, permission is nevertheless granted
to those visitors who may be desirous of consulting the books and manuscripts, on making application
to the cardinal-librarian or his assistants; but the privilege is merely nominal, in consequence
of the extremely imperfect state of the catalogue; and in point of fact the multitudinous volumes
on the shelves may be compared to a mine, unexplored and unexplorable; whence only a few particular
objects, considered the staple curiosities of the region, and consequently continually had
recourse to by the visitors, are extracted. The volumes in question consist principally of
a splendidly-illuminated Bible of the sixth century; the most ancient version of the Septuagint;
the earliest Greek version of the New Testament; the 'Assertio Septem Sacramentorum,' written
by Henry VIII.--a royal literary effort in defence of the seven Roman Catholic sacraments that
procured the title of Defender of the Faith for the author, which descended to the Protestant
monarchs of England; and a most curious and authentic collection of original correspondence
between Henry VIII. and Anne Boleyn. The 'Assertio Septem Sacramentorum' is a good thick octavo
volume, written in Latin, and printed in the year 1501, in London, on vellum. The type is clear,
with a broad margin, and at the beginning is the original presentation addressed to Leo X.,
as follows, subscribed by the royal autograph--

    'Anglorum Rex Henricus Leo Decime mittit
      Hoc opus, et fidei testis et amicitiæ.'

The whole work--in the preface of which the writer descants on his humble talents and his modesty--would
seem, as far as I was able to judge by turning over the pages hastily, to be composed in a
remarkably clear style, and to abound with naïve phrases and genuine expressions of the king
himself, wrought into the mass and substance of a prolix theological dissertation, that no
doubt was prepared and digested for the purpose by the divines of the period. With regard to
the correspondence with Anne Boleyn, which places the royal author altogether in a different
point of view before the public, the latter consists of a considerable number of original letters,
of which those written by the king are for the most part in French and the remainder in English,
and those of Anne Boleyn written all in French. The documents are all in excellent preservation,
and the handwriting perfectly legible; from the difference of the character at the period in
question, and owing to the abbreviations, somewhat difficult to decipher; not so much so, however,
but that even an unpractised person, with sufficient time and leisure, might make them out
without much difficulty. Visitors are relieved from the labor of the experiment; and fair copies,
made in a clear round hand, are placed, each copy side by side with the original, and all are
stitched together in a portfolio, where they may be perused with the utmost facility. The letters,
which to those inclined to ponder on the anatomy of the human heart afford a melancholy moral,
are chiefly remarkable for the boisterous eager tone of the king's passion towards his lady-love,
which, expressed in terms that would hardly be considered proper now-a-days, verges on the
grotesque."

7. Casanata Library, Rome.--This library, founded by Cardinal Girolamo Casanata in the year
1700, is said to contain a greater number of printed books exclusively, in contradistinction
to manuscripts, than any other in Rome, not excepting the Vatican. "The library," says Sir
George Head, "is a very beautifully-proportioned chamber, upwards of fifty feet in breadth,
and long in proportion, with an elliptically-vaulted ceiling, along the base of which are a
series of acute-angled arched spaces containing windows that throw an admirable light on the
apartment, which is whitewashed most brilliantly. The books are ranged all round the room on
open shelves, with a communication to those of the upper row by a pensile gallery that surrounds
the whole periphery. At the extremity of the room is a white marble statue, by Le Gros, of
Cardinal Casanata, the founder, elevated with remarkably good effect on a pedestal of dark-colored
Brazil-wood, very highly polished, and surmounted by a splendid frontispiece, supported on
two pair of fluted Corinthian columns, all of the same material. The door of the room at the
entrance is also surmounted by a frontispiece and columns of Brazil-wood, similar to the preceding.
The librarian, a Dominican friar, dressed in the habit of his order, and seated in an easy-chair
in the middle of the room at his desk of office, attends there continually, and is exceedingly
kind and attentive to the applications of strangers who wish to read books in the library,
though his good intentions are of little avail, from the want of a proper catalogue."

8. Laurentian Library, Florence.--This institution was commenced by Cosmo de Medici, the father
of a line of princes whose name and age are almost synonymous with the restoration of learning.
Naturally fond of literature, and anxious to save from destruction the precious remains of
classical antiquity, he laid injunctions on all his friends and correspondents, as well as
on the missionaries who travelled into remote countries, to search for and procure ancient
manuscripts in every language and on every subject. He availed himself of the services of all
the learned men of his time; and the situation of the Eastern empire, then daily falling into
ruins by the repeated attacks of the Turks, afforded him an opportunity of obtaining many inestimable
works in the Hebrew, Greek, Chaldaic, Arabic, and Indian languages. From these beginnings arose
the celebrated library of the Medici, which, after having been the constant object of the solicitude
of its founder, was after his death further enriched by the attention of his descendants, and
particularly of his grandson Lorenzo; and after various vicissitudes of fortune, and frequent
and considerable additions, has been preserved to the present day--the noblest monument which
its princely founders have left of the glory of their line.

9. Magliabecchian Library, Florence.--Antonio Magliabecchi, from being a servant to a dealer
in vegetables, raised himself to the honorable office of librarian to the Grand Duke of Tuscany,
and became one of the most eminent literary characters of his time. The force of natural talent
overcame all the disadvantages of the humble condition in which he had been born, and placed
him in a situation to make his name known and respected. But he endeavored to deserve still
better of his countrymen, by presenting them, shortly before his death in 1714, with his large
and valuable collection of books, together with the remainder of his fortune, as a fund for
its support. This constituted the foundation of the Magliabecchian Library, which, by the subsequent
donations of several benefactors, and the bounty of some of the grand dukes of Florence, has
been so much increased both in number and value that it may now vie with some of the most considerable
collections in Europe.

10. Imperial Library, Vienna.--This collection is perhaps inferior only to that of the Vatican,
and the National Library at Paris, for the rarity and value of its contents. It was founded
by the Emperor Frederick III., who spared no expense to enrich it with printed books as well
as manuscripts in every language. By the munificence of succeeding emperors, numerous important
and valuable accessions were made to the collection; amongst which may be mentioned the large
and interesting library of Prince Eugene, and a considerable portion of the Buda Library, founded
by Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary. The Imperial Library occupies eight spacious apartments,
and a ninth is appropriated to a very valuable collection of medals and other curiosities.
Besides the cabinet of medals, there is also attached to the library a superb collection of
engravings, consisting of 473 large folio volumes, 510 volumes of different sizes, and 215
folio cartoons. The collection of music contains upwards of 6000 volumes, theoretical and practical;
and that of autographs exceeds 8000 pieces, classed under the heads of monarchs and princes,
ministers and statesmen, poets, philosophers, and men of learning or science, generals and
renowned warriors, artists, musicians, and others.

11. Royal Library, Munich.--This is the most extensive collection in Germany. It was founded
in 1550, and is very complete in all its departments. The ancient manuscripts relative to the
art of music amount to a great number, and are exceedingly curious.

12. University Library, Gottingen.--The library attached to the University of Gottingen contains
360,000 printed volumes, and 3000 volumes of manuscripts. But its extent is its least recommendation,
for it is not only the most complete among those of the universities, but there are very few
royal or public collections in Germany which can rival it in real utility; and if not in Germany,
where else? It is not rich in manuscripts, and many libraries surpass it in typographical rarities,
but none contains so great a number of really useful books in almost every branch of human
knowledge. This library is mainly indebted for the preëminence it has obtained to the labors
and exertions of the illustrious Heyne. In the year in which he came to Gottingen as second
librarian, the entire control of the library was committed to him, and he became chief. From
this moment commenced at once its extension and its improvement. When Heyne went to Gottingen,
it already possessed a library of from 50,000 to 60,000 volumes; at his decease it had increased,
according to the most moderate computation, to upwards of 200,000 volumes. Nor was this all.
At the commencement of his librarianship entire departments of learning were wholly wanting;
at its close, not only were these deficiencies supplied, but the library had become proportionally
rich in every department, and, in point of completeness, unrivalled. Fortunately, Heyne's place
has been filled by worthy successors, and the reputation of the collection is still as great
as ever.

13. Royal Library, Dresden.--The king of Saxony's library at Dresden contains 300,000 volumes
of printed books, and 2800 volumes of manuscripts. The valuable library that formerly belonged
to Count Beurau forms part of this noble collection, which is most complete in general history,
and in Greek and Latin classic authors. Amongst the printed books are some of the rarest specimens
of early typography, including 600 of the Aldine editions, and many on vellum, besides a copy
of the first edition of the "Orlando Furioso," printed by Mazocco, "coll' assistenza dell'autore,"
in 1516, and other rarities. In the department of manuscripts are a Mexican manuscript, written
on human skin, containing, according to Thevenot, a calendar, with some fragments of the history
of the Incas; the original manuscript of the "Reveries" of Marshal Saxe, bearing at the end
that he had composed this work in thirteen nights during a fever, and completed it in December
1733; a fine copy of the Koran, taken from a Turk by a Saxon officer at the last siege of Vienna,
and said to have formerly belonged to Bajazet II.; and a Greek manuscript of the Epistles of
St. Paul of the eleventh century. An extensive collection of antiquities is preserved in twelve
apartments under the library, below which are eighteen vaulted cellars, stored with a vast
quantity of valuable porcelain, partly of foreign and partly of Dresden manufacture.

14. Royal Library, Berlin.--This collection includes works upon almost all the sciences, and
in nearly all languages. Among the manuscripts are several Egyptian deeds, written on papyrus,
in the demotic or enchorial character. These are very curious, and fac similes of some of them
have been published by Professor Kosegarten in his valuable work on the "Ancient Literature
of the Egyptians."

15. University Library, Leyden.--This library was founded by William I., Prince of Orange,
and is justly celebrated throughout Europe for the many valuable specimens of Greek and Oriental
literature with which it abounds. To it Joseph Scaliger bequeathed his fine collection of Hebrew
books; and it was further enriched by the learned Golius, on his return from the East, with
many Arabic, Turkish, Persian, and Chaldaic manuscripts. In addition to these it received the
collections of Holmanns, and particularly those of Isaac Vossius and Ruhuken--the former containing
a number of valuable manuscripts, supposed to have once belonged to Christina, queen of Sweden;
and the latter an almost entire series of classical authors, with a collection of manuscripts,
perhaps unique, amongst which are copies of several that were consumed by fire in the Abbey
of St. Germain-des-Prés.

16. Imperial Library, St. Petersburg.--Russia is indebted for this splendid collection to an
act of robbery and spoliation. In 1795, when Russia triumphed over the independence of Poland,
the victorious general, Suwaroff, unceremoniously seized the Zaluski Library, of nearly 300,000
volumes, had it packed up in all haste and dispatched to St. Petersburg. There it formed the
basis of the present Imperial Library, which, but for that stolen collection, instead of now
ranking in the first class of European libraries, would scarcely have been entitled to a place
in the third.

17. Libraries of Constantinople.--This city possesses thirty-two public libraries, all varying
in extent, but more or less celebrated for the number and value of their manuscripts, which
are neatly bound in red, green, or black morocco. The Mohammedans have a peculiar method of
indorsing, placing, and preserving their books. Each volume, besides being bound in morocco,
is preserved from dust in a case of the same material; and on it, as well as on the edges of
the leaves, the title is written in large and legible characters. The books are placed, one
upon another, in presses ornamented with trellis-work, and are disposed along the wall, or
in the four corners of the library. All these collections are open to the public throughout
the year, excepting on Tuesdays and Fridays: the librarians are as polite and attentive as
Turks can be to those whom curiosity or love of study attract thither: and every one is at
liberty not merely to peruse, but to make extracts from the books, and even to transcribe them
entirely, provided this be done within the walls of the library. Theology, including the Koran
and commentators thereon, jurisprudence, medicine, ethics, and history, are the sciences chiefly
cultivated by the Osmanlis. The books are all written with the greatest care on the finest
vellum, the text of each page is inclosed in a highly-ornamented and gilt framework, the beginning
of each chapter or section is splendidly illuminated, and the value of the manuscripts varies
in proportion to the beauty of the characters.

We here terminate our rapid survey of the principal libraries of Europe. Small, however, would
be the interest which one should feel for these magnificent establishments were they designed
solely for the benefit of a few individuals, or of any favored class. They would still be splendid
monuments of the productive powers of the human mind, and of the taste or learning of their
founders; but they would have no claims to that unbounded admiration with which we now regard
them. There is a republican liberality in the management of the great libraries of the continent
of Europe which is well worthy of our imitation. In these alone is the great invention of printing
carried out to its full extent, by the free communication of all its productions to every class
of society. No introduction, no recommendation, no securities are required; but the stranger
and the native are admitted, upon equal terms, to the full enjoyment of all the advantages
which the uncontrolled use of books can afford. As this mode of accommodating, or rather of
meeting the wants of the public, is the real object of these institutions, they are provided
with librarians, who, under different titles corresponding to the duties imposed upon them,
receive from government regular salaries proportioned to their rank and to the services which
they perform. To these the immediate superintendence of the library is wholly intrusted, and
at a stated hour of every day in the week, except of such as are set apart for public or religious
festivals, they open the library to the public. There, undisturbed, and supplied with every
thing the collection contains that can aid him in his studies, the scholar may pass several
hours of every day without any expense, and with no other care than that natural attention
to the books he uses, which every one capable of appreciating the full value of such privileges
will readily give. Nor do his facilities cease here. The time during which the libraries remain
open may be insufficient for profound and extensive researches, and the writer who has to trace
his facts through a great variety of works, and to examine the unpublished documents to be
found in public libraries alone, would be obliged to sacrifice a large portion of every day
if his studies were regulated by the usual hours of these institutions. For such persons, a
proper recommendation can hardly fail to procure the use, at their own houses, of the works
they may need. In this manner the door is thrown open to every one who wishes to enter, and
science placed within reach of all who court her favors.

This is as it should be; and it is therefore with great pleasure that we have observed symptoms
of improvement in this respect originating in our legislature. In March, 1849, a select committee
was appointed by the House of Commons, on the motion of Mr. William Ewart, to report on the
best means of "extending the establishment of libraries freely open to the public, especially
in large towns, in Great Britain and Ireland." This committee consisted of fifteen members--namely,
Mr. Ewart, Viscount Ebrington, Mr. D'Israeli, Sir Harry Verney, Mr. Charteris, Mr. Bunbury,
Mr. G. A. Hamilton, Mr. Brotherton, Mr. Monckton Milnes, the Lord Advocate (Mr. Rutherford),
Mr. Thicknesse, Sir John Walsh, Mr. Mackinnon, Mr. Kershaw, and Mr. Wyld. These gentlemen seem
to have entered upon their labors with zeal, and to have performed their duty with thoroughness
and fidelity. They held numerous sessions, and examined a large number of witnesses. The particulars
of these examinations have been printed in full, and form a rather bulky blue-book, in which
the report of the committee occupies only twelve pages, while the minutes of evidence, tables,
&c., fill over three hundred. The committee appear to have felt that it was only necessary
to lay before parliament and the public the facts concerning the present condition and wants
of the public libraries of this country, in order to insure the supply of all deficiencies.

After presenting a brief view of the principal libraries in the various countries of Europe,
with a more particular account of the present condition of those in Great Britain, showing
that the English are far behind their continental brethren in this respect, the committee thus
express their conviction--"Whatever may be our disappointment at the rarity of public libraries
in the United Kingdom, we feel satisfaction in stating that the uniform current of the evidence
tends to prove the increased qualifications of the people to appreciate and enjoy such institutions.
Testimony, showing a great improvement in the national habits and manners, is abundantly given
in the evidence taken by the committee. That they would be still further improved by the establishment
of public libraries, it needs not even the high authority and ample evidence of the witnesses
who appeared before the committee to demonstrate."

Frequent and favorable allusions are made in the report and the minutes of evidence to the
numerous popular libraries in this country for district schools, factories, &c. These, we are
aware, are of the greatest value; but these alone are not sufficient. The establishment of
even a hundred thousand small village or district-school libraries would not supersede the
necessity of a certain number of large and comprehensive ones. These little collections are
much alike, each containing nearly the same books as every other. The committee of parliament
appear to understand this. "It is evident," they say, "that there should be in all countries
libraries of two sorts; libraries of deposit and research, and libraries devoted to the general
reading and circulation of books. Libraries of deposit should contain, if possible, almost
every book that ever has existed. The most insignificant tract, the most trifling essay, a
sermon, a newspaper, or a song, may afford an illustration of manners or opinions elucidatory
of the past, and throw a faithful though feeble light on the pathway of the future historian.
In such libraries nothing should be rejected. Not but that libraries of deposit and of general
reading may (as in the case of the British Museum) be combined. But though such combination
is possible, and may be desirable, the distinction which we have drawn should never be forgotten."

The first, and apparently, in the estimation of the committee, the most important witness,
was Edward Edwards, Esq., an assistant in the department of printed books in the British Museum.
The minutes of his evidence alone cover between sixty and seventy of the closely-printed folio
pages accompanying the report; and besides this, he has furnished various statistical tables,
occupying fifty pages, and a series of twelve maps. In one of these maps it is his purpose
to exhibit, by various shades, the relative provision of books in public libraries in the principal
states of Europe, as compared with their respective populations; and in the others, the local
situation of the public libraries in some of the principal cities is indicated. The evidence
of Mr. Edwards has been severely commented upon in the London papers and elsewhere, and some
inaccuracies in his tables, of greater or less magnitude, have been pointed out. We might,
perhaps, by a particular examination of every word and figure, add something to the list of
errata. But we think that those persons who are most familiar with the difficulty of obtaining
exact statistical details, will not wonder that an error should here and there be found. We
have looked over the evidence and the tables with considerable care, and think them, on the
whole, highly creditable to the author. It is evident, however, from the general tenor of his
testimony, that Mr. Edwards presses rather too strongly the point respecting the condition
of England, compared with that of the countries on the continent, as to the number and accessibility
of their public libraries. His enthusiasm on the subject, arising probably from a laudable
desire to have his own country take a higher rank in respect to libraries than she now holds,
has led him, we think, to overlook or undervalue some of the advantages which she already possesses.
But his facts and figures are in the main to be relied upon; and we shall make use of them
as sufficiently accurate to give our readers a general view of the present bibliothecal condition
of the principal countries of Europe.

On Mr. Edwards's map of Europe we find the smaller German states to be represented with the
lightest lines, indicating the highest rank, and Great Britain with the darkest or lowest.
He states the provision of books in libraries publicly accessible, as compared with the population,
to be as follows:--In Saxony, for every 100 inhabitants there are 417 books; in Denmark, 412;
in Bavaria, 339; in Tuscany, 261; in Prussia, 200; in Austria, 167; in France, 129; in Belgium,
95; whilst in Great Britain there are only 53 to every 100 inhabitants.

In the following tables, the libraries containing fewer than 10,000 volumes each (of which
there are, in France alone, at least seventy or eighty) are not taken into the account:--

France       has 107 public libraries, containing 4,000,000 vols. Prussia       "   44    
"                "     2,400,000  " Austria       "   48       "                "     2,400,000
" Great Britain "   33       "                "     1,771,000  " Bavaria       "   17     
"                "     1,267,000  " Denmark       "    5       "                "       645,000
" Saxony        "    6       "                "       554,000  " Belgium       "   14     
"                "       538,000  " Tuscany       "    9       "                "       411,000  "

Taking the capital cities, we find the following results:--

Paris        has   9 public libraries, containing 1,474,000 vols. Munich        "    2    
"                "       800,000  " Copenhagen    "    3       "                "       557,000
" Berlin        "    2       "                "       530,000  " London        "    4     
"                "       490,500  " Vienna        "    3       "                "       453,000
" Dresden       "    4       "                "       340,500  " Florence      "    6     
"                "       318,000  " Milan         "    2       "                "       230,000
" Brussels      "    2       "                "       143,500  "

Arranging these libraries according to their extent, or number of printed books, they would
stand as follows:--

                              Printed Books. Manuscripts.
Paris (1), National Library,      824,000     80,000 vols.
Munich, Royal Library,            600,000     22,000  "
St. Petersburg, Imperial Library, 446,000     20,650  "
London, British Museum,           435,000     31,000  "
Copenhagen, Royal Library,        412,000      3,000  "
Berlin, Royal Library,            410,000      5,000  "
Vienna, Imperial Library,         313,000     16,000  "
Dresden, Royal Library,           300,000      2,800  "
Wolfenbuttel, Ducal Library,      200,000      4,580  "
Madrid, National Library,         200,000      2,500  "
Stuttgard, Royal Library,         187,000      3,300  "
Paris (2), Arsenal Library,       180,000      6,000  "
Milan, Brera Library,             170,000      1,000  "
Darmstadt, Grand Ducal Library,   150,000      4,000  "
Paris (3), St. Genevieve Library, 150,000      2,000  "
Florence, Magliabecchian Library, 150,000     12,000  "
Naples, Royal Library,            150,000      3,000  "
Edinburgh, Advocates' Library,    148,000      2,000  "
Brussels, Royal Library,          133,500     18,000  "
Rome (1), Casanata Library,       120,000      4,500  "
Hague, Royal Library,             100,000      2,000  "
Paris (4), Mazarin Library,       100,000      4,000  "
Rome (2), Vatican Library,        100,000     24,000  "
Parma, Ducal Library,             100,000             "

The chief university libraries may be ranked in the following order:--

                              Printed Books. Manuscripts.
Gottingen, University Library,    360,000      3,000 vols.
Breslau, University Library,      250,000      2,300  "
Oxford, Bodleian Library,         220,000     21,000  "
Tubingen, University Library,     200,000      1,900  "
Munich, University Library,       200,000      2,000  "
Heidelberg, University Library,   200,000      1,800  "
Cambridge, University Library,    166,000      3,163  "
Bologna, University Library,      150,000        400  "
Prague, University Library,       130,000      4,000  "
Vienna, University Library,       115,000             "
Leipsic, University Library,      112,000      2,500  "
Copenhagen, University Library,   110,000             "
Turin, University Library,        110,000      2,000  "
Louvain, University Library,      105,000        246  "
Dublin, Trinity College Library,  104,239      1,512  "
Upsal, University Library,        100,000      5,000  "
Erlangen, University Library,     100,000      1,000  "
Edinburgh, University Library,     90,354        310  "

The largest libraries in Great Britain are those of the

                              Printed Books. Manuscripts.
British Museum, London,           435,000     31,000  "
Bodleian, Oxford,                 220,000     21,000  "
University, Cambridge,            166,724      3,163  "
Advocates', Edinburgh,            148,000      2,000  "
Trinity College, Dublin,          104,239      1,512  "

There are in the United States of America at least 81 libraries of 5000 volumes and upwards
each, to which the public, more or less restrictedly, have access, and of these 49 are immediately
connected with colleges or public schools. The aggregate number of volumes in these collections
is about 980,413. We subjoin the contents of a few of the largest:--

Harvard College Library,            72,000 vols. Philadelphia and Loganian Library,  60,000
" Boston Athenæum,                    50,000  " Library of Congress,                50,000
" New York Society Library,           32,000  " Mercantile Library, New-York,       32,000
" Georgetown College,                 25,000  " Brown University,                   24,000
" New-York State Library,             24,000  " Yale College,                       21,000  "

America will, however, soon possess a library worthy of its character as a great nation. The
Astor Library, now in the course of formation, owes its existence to the munificence of John
Jacob Astor, who died on the 29th of March, 1848, leaving by his will the sum of 400,000 dollars
for the establishment of a public library in the city of New-York. Seventy-five thousand dollars
were to be appropriated to the erection of a suitable building, and 120,000 dollars to the
purchase of books as a nucleus. The smallest number of books which the trustees consider it
safe to estimate as a basis for enlargement is 100,000 volumes. The Astor Library will probably,
when first formed, contain a larger number and a better selection of books than any other in
the United States. With the generous provision which the founder has made for its increase,
together with the liberal donations which will undoubtedly be made to this as the chief library
in the country, it is likely to grow rapidly, till it will take rank with the large libraries
of the old world. Under the direction of an enlightened and judicious Board of Trustees, with
Washington Irving for president, and Dr. Cogswell for superintendent of the institution, there
is every reason to believe that the desire so warmly expressed at the conclusion of their report
will be fulfilled: "That the Astor Library may soon become, as a depository of the treasures
of literature and science, what the city possessing it is rapidly becoming in commerce and wealth."

The second witness examined by the committee was M. Guizot. In the distinguished positions
which he has filled as minister of public instruction and prime minister in France, his attention
has been turned to the public libraries of that country. While in office he ordered an inspection
of those institutions, and the French government now has complete and exact documents relative
to the number of public libraries, and the number of books in each. These institutions are
accessible to the public in every way for reading, and to a great extent for borrowing books.
Some of them receive direct grants from the government towards their support; while others,
in the provincial towns, are supported by municipal funds; and to the latter the government
distributes copies of costly works, for the publication of which it in general subscribes liberally.
M. Guizot attributes the happiest results to this system. He says--"There are two good results:
the first is, a general regard in the mind of the public for learning, for literature, and
for books. That complete accessibility to the libraries gives to every one, learned or unlearned,
a general feeling of good-will for learning and for knowledge; and then the second result is,
that the means for acquiring knowledge are given to those persons who are able to employ them."

His Excellency M. Van de Weyer, the Belgian ambassador, was next examined. He testified that
the public libraries in his own country were numerous, large, and easily accessible to all
who desire to make use of them. He attributes the best results to the literary character of
his country from this privilege of free access to their large collections of books. He thinks
the people are better prepared than is generally supposed to appreciate works of a high character.
He seems to think it unwise to attempt to popularize science and literature by printing inferior
books, written expressly for common and uneducated people. The government subscribe for a number
of copies of nearly every valuable work published, by which means they encourage the progress
of literature, and are enabled to enrich many of the public collections. "The government have
sometimes, within a space of twenty years, spent some £10,000 or £12,000 in favor of libraries.
I take this opportunity of stating also, that though the Chamber only votes a grant of 65,000
or 70,000 francs for the Royal Public Library of Brussels, whenever there is some large sale
going on, there is always a special grant made to the library. Lately one of the most curious
private libraries had been advertised for sale; a catalogue had been printed in six volumes;
the government immediately came forward, bought the whole of the collection for £13,000 or
£14,000, and made it an addition to the Royal Library in Brussels; they did the same thing
at Ghent; I believe that the library that they bought at Ghent consisted of about 20,000 volumes,
and in Brussels about 60,000 or 70,000 volumes." Our own government would do well to imitate
this example more frequently than it has hitherto done.

Passing by several witnesses whose evidence we should be glad to notice did our limits permit,
we come to George Dawson, Esquire, who as a lecturer, has had opportunities of becoming acquainted
with the condition, the feelings and the wants of the working-classes in the manufacturing
towns both in England and Scotland. He testifies that libraries to some extent have already
been formed in those places, and that there is a very general desire among the working-people
to avail themselves of more and better books. They can appreciate the best authors. Political
and historical subjects interest them most, but the higher class of poetry is also read by
them. Milton is much read. Mr. Dawson says, "Shakspeare is known by heart almost. I could produce
men who could be cross-examined upon any play." The contrast between the manufacturing and
the farming districts in respect to the intelligence of the people and their desire for improvement
is very great. Speaking of one of the agricultural districts, Mr. Dawson says, "I have heard
of a parish in Norfolk where a woman was the parish clerk, because there was not a man in the
parish who could read or write!"

Henry Stevens, Esq., formerly librarian of one of the libraries connected with Yale College,
gave some valuable information respecting the present state of public libraries in the United
States. He says: "The public libraries of the United States are small but very numerous. We
have but two containing above 50,000 volumes, while there are nine above 20,000, forty-three
above 10,000, more than a hundred above 5000 volumes, and thousands of smaller ones. The want
of large public consulting libraries, like those of Europe, is much felt." The chief readers
in these libraries are the working-classes, and persons who are engaged in active business
through the day. Works on physical science, history, biography, and of a superior class, are
those chiefly read by them; and Mr. Stevens stated, that when he came to England, he could
not help being struck by the "little reading that there is among the laboring and business
classes" of this country as compared with the United States. This is succinctly explained by
Mr. Dawson, who says: "The quantity of people who cannot read and write in this country is
a very great hinderance to the demand for books. We have eight millions who cannot write yet!"
Mr. Edwards, in his evidence, also points to the same deficiency of elementary education, "In
addition," he says, "to the positive want of schooling on the part of large numbers of the
population who are now growing up, those who do get some partial education, habitually neglect
to improve what they get from the want of cultivating a taste for reading. Unless good books
are made accessible to the people, this is very likely to continue to be a cause--even where
education by Sunday schools, and other efforts of that kind, have been brought within the reach
of a considerable number of the population--why the good effects of education have not been
continued in after life."

The committee very justly place much value on the opinions and suggestions of M. Libri. The
thorough knowledge which that eminent bibliographer possesses of all matters pertaining to
the condition and wants of public libraries, as well as of the needs of literary men, renders
his remarks worthy of careful consideration. In a letter addressed to Mr. Ewart, the chairman
of the committee, he develops his views at some length, and shows the necessity of having in
great countries libraries "in which one may expect to find, as far as it is possible, all books
which learned men--men who occupy themselves upon any subject whatever, and who cultivate one
of the branches of human knowledge--may require to consult. Of these there is nothing useless,
nothing ought to be neglected; the most insignificant in appearance, those which on their publication
have attracted the least attention, sometimes become the source of valuable and unexpected
information." It is in the fragments, now so rare and precious, of some alphabets--of some
small grammars published for the use of schools about the middle of the fifteenth century--or
in the letters distributed in Germany by the religious bodies commissioned to collect alms,
that bibliographers now seek to discover the first processes employed by the inventors of xylography
and typography. It is in a forgotten collection of indifferent plates, published at Venice
by Faush Verantio towards the end of the sixteenth century, that an engineer, who interests
himself in the history of the mechanical arts, might find the first diagrams of iron suspension-bridges.

Nothing should be neglected; nothing is useless to whoever wishes thoroughly to study a subject.
An astronomer, who desires to study the motions peculiar to certain stars, requires to consult
all the old books of astronomy, and even of astrology, which appear the most replete with error.
A chemist, a man who is engaged in the industrial arts, may still consult with profit certain
works on alchemy, and even on magic. A legislator, a jurisconsult, needs sometimes to be acquainted
with the laws, the ordinances, which derive their origin from the most barbarous ages; but
it is particularly for the biographer, for the historian, that it is necessary to prepare the
largest field of inquiry, to amass the greatest quantity of materials. This is not only true
as regards past times, but we ought to prepare the materials for future students. Historical
facts which appear the least important, the most insignificant anecdotes, registered in a pamphlet,
mentioned in a placard or in a song, nay be connected at a later period in an unforeseen manner
with events which acquire great importance, or with men who are distinguished in history by
their genius, by their sudden elevation, or even by their crimes. We are not born celebrated--men
become so; and when we desire to trace the history of those who have attained it, the inquirer
is often obliged to pursue his researches in their most humble beginnings. Who would have imagined
that the obscure author of a small pamphlet, "Le Souper de Beaucaire," would subsequently become
the Emperor Napoleon? and that to write fully the life of the execrable Marat, one ought to
have the very insignificant essays on physics that he published before the Revolution? Nothing
is too unimportant for whoever wishes thoroughly to study the literary or scientific history
of a country, or for one who undertakes to trace the intellectual progress of eminent minds,
or to inform himself in detail of the changes which have taken place in the institutions and
in the manners of a nation. Without speaking of the commentaries or considerable additions
which have been introduced in the various reprints of an author, the successive editions of
the same work which appear to resemble each other the most, are often distinguished from each
other by peculiarities worthy of much attention. It has been well said, that a public library
should contain all those works which are too costly, too voluminous, or of too little value
in the common estimation to be found elsewhere, down even to the smallest tracts. An old almanac,
or a forgotten street-ballad, has sometimes enabled the historian to verify or correct some
important point which would otherwise have remained in dispute.

With a brief extract from the evidence of one other witness we must close our notice of the
Report on Public Libraries. Charles Meyer, Esq., German secretary to his Royal Highness Prince
Albert, had given attention to the public libraries of Germany, having resided several years
in Gotha, Hamburg, Leipsic, and Munich. He had perused the principal part of the evidence which
had been given by Mr. Edwards upon this subject, and found all that he stated to be quite correct.
Dr. Meyer thinks the existence of the numerous and valuable libraries of Germany has given
the literary men of that country an advantage over the literary men of England. "It has saved
a great number of our German learned men," he says, "from the danger of becoming autodidactoi--self-taught.
I think that is one essential point of difference that is visible in comparing the general
character of the instruction in this country with that on the continent: there are in this
country a great number of self-taught people, who think according to their own views, without
any reference to previous scientific works. They make sometimes very great discoveries; but
sometimes they find that they have wasted their labor upon subjects already known, which have
been written upon by a great number of people before them; but as they have no access to libraries,
it is impossible for them to get acquainted with the literature of that branch upon which they
treat."

From the preceding quotations, it is evident that, in the opinion of the Parliamentary Committee,
and of the witnesses examined by it, there exists in this country at once a great deficiency
of public libraries and a pressing necessity for their establishment. Our people are and will
be readers. They are generally prepared to make a good use of books of a higher order than
those offered to them in so cheap and attractive a form by our enterprising publishers. Now,
either their energies will be wasted in a desultory course of reading, by which they will gain
only a superficial knowledge of almost every conceivable subject, or they must be furnished
with the means, which they are so well prepared to use to advantage, of going to the bottom
of whatever subject interests them, and having exhausted the wisdom of past generations, of
adding to the stock of general knowledge from the results of their own thoughts and experience.

The necessity for the establishment of large collections of books, freely open to the public--of
institutions in which, as Ovid well expresses it,

    "Quæque viri docto veteres cepere novique
    Pectore, lecturis inspicienda patent"--

is, we imagine, unquestioned and unquestionable. The question now arises, How are these libraries
to be constituted? On this point it will not be expected that we should dilate at length. At
the present time the best books on all subjects are to be purchased at a moderate rate; and
in the formation of new libraries, attention should first be paid to the supply of works most
generally in demand. It will neither be wise nor just to the public to purchase, at the outset,
rare and curious works: when a sufficient supply of really useful and generally read publications
has been obtained, it will be quite time enough to think of indulging the bibliomania. But
there is one subject on which this taste may advantageously be indulged--and that is, every
town in which a public library is established should take care to collect all works relating
to its local or municipal history. A selection of the best books on bibliography should also
be possessed by each. These are to the librarian and the literary man what the compass is to
the mariner, or the tools of his trade to the artisan.

But we must hasten to a conclusion. As a pendent to the Report of the Parliamentary Committee,
Mr. Ewart brought forward a bill for the establishment of libraries and museums in country
towns. This bill has now received the sanction of the legislature; its operation is, however,
limited to boroughs whose population exceeds 10,000; and before it can be carried into effect,
a public meeting of rate-payers must be called, and the consent of two-thirds of those present
obtained. Liverpool was the first to profit by this act: other towns have followed her example;
and we trust that ere long, in all the considerable towns throughout the length and breadth
of this land, public libraries and museums will be established. The subject is one that cannot
be long neglected. It will go on gaining upon public attention, until seen by all in its true
light, and in all its bearings. Then the connection between a sound literature and the means
used for its formation will be felt; then the numerous and immediate advantages of such a form
of encouragement, as the establishment of these institutions, will be clearly seen and fully
understood; and the rich harvest of glory which our future scholars will reap in every branch
of study must convince even the most incredulous, that literature asks no favors and seeks
no aid for which she does not repay the giver with a tenfold increase.

FOOTNOTES:

[19] The library of Pergamos was founded by King Eumenes, and enlarged by his successor Attalus.
It soon became so extensive that the Ptolemies, afraid that it would speedily rival their own
collection at Alexandria, issued an edict forbidding the exportation of papyrus; but this prohibition,
so far from attaining the unworthy object for which it was destined, proved rather beneficial;
for the Pergameans, having exhausted their stock of papyrus, set their wits to work, and invented
parchment (charta Pergamena) as a substitute.

[20] One of the most remarkable of these purchases was that made of the private library of
the Prince Eugene, for a life-income of 10,000 florins. It was composed of 15,000 printed volumes,
337 manuscripts, 290 folio volumes of prints, and 215 portfolios or boxes.

[21] For a detailed account of, and guide-book to, the treasures of this great national collection,
see "The British Museum, Historical and Descriptive, with Numerous Engravings," recently published
by W. & R. Chambers.

THE JOURNALS OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.

Our readers know that one of the points of the singular but admirable education that Madame
de Genlis gave Louis Philippe and his brothers, was to teach them to examine and regulate their
mind and conduct by the keeping of a journal; and this Louis Philippe has done, not, we suppose,
continuously, nor even, perhaps, for the greater part of his busy life, but for particular
periods--during seasons either of peculiar interest or of unusual leisure. A fragment of his
early journal, extending from the autumn of 1790 to the summer of 1791, was lost or stolen
in the tumults and pillage of the first Revolution, as the memoirs of 1815 have been in the
late one, and like these, published by an illegitimate possessor. That most curious little
tract had become very rare--so rare, indeed, that Louis Philippe himself had not a copy, till
a friend of ours lately presented him the copy from which we ourselves had made a translation,
which we published in extenso in our article on "The Personal History of Louis Philippe." The
King had also written and printed the "Journal of the Hundred Days," just mentioned; and we
were permitted to see and make extracts in our last March number from his Journal of February
and March, 1848. It is known, too, that during his residence at Claremont, as at former intervals
of repose, he amused himself in recording his recollections; but no information has yet transpired
of the extent (either as to bulk or time) of what he may have left--beyond the conjecture (which
is, however, only founded on an accidental expression of his which was repeated to us some
months ago) that the portion which he was so anxious to complete related to his return to France
in 1814. * * But whatever Louis Philippe may have left, it will be curious and valuable, as
the production of so powerful a mind, always engaged in, and for a long period actually directing,
the most extraordinary series of events in the history of the modern world. Its publication,
however, must be, of course, a matter of great delicacy, and of mature deliberation, and we
have not as yet heard even a rumor on the subject.

These facts are from an interesting paper in the last number of the Quarterly Review.

THE BUNJARAS.

This most interesting race, the travelling grain merchants of western India (who lead a life
wholly nomadic, and have done so earlier than is recorded), have their best interests opposed
to the introduction of foreign innovation in the matter of transit. The Bunjaras have no sympathy
with civilized life; from the people of India they move, think, live apart, varying in dress,
language, religion, from all about them. Rajpoots by origin, they can follow no trade; the
Bunjara may serve only as a soldier; in all other callings he must be free and independent.
For hundreds of years we find them, as hordes, encamping in the open air, and living by the
exchange of merchandise. They are owners of great droves of bullocks, which, laden with grain
in the upper country, they drive to the coast, exchanging their burthens for salt, at a favorable
market, but sedulously avoiding all intercourse with strangers and their cities. The Bunjaras
are a stout, sturdy race; sturdy and stout in action and resolve as they are in body and form,
Spartan-like in their sense of honor, free in their opinion as the mountain breeze, keeping
apart from men and their cabals, and existing by their own energies. A short time since, I
journeyed on horseback over the very line of this proposed railway, from the city of Nassiek
to Bombay, and encountered several hundreds of bullocks heavily laden, and attended by Bunjara
families; the men armed with sword and matchlock, the children propped up among the bullock
furniture, and each younger woman of the tribe looking much as one fancies the Jewish maiden
must have looked when she obtained grace and favor in the sight of King Ahasuerus, who "made
her queen instead of Vashti." It is worthy of remark, that the choice of colors among the Bunjara
women is altogether opposed to general taste among the Hindoos. Red and yellow among the latter
are always favorite tints, and blue is never worn by any but the common people, to whom it
is recommended by the cheapness of the indigo used in dyeing. The Bunjara women, on the contrary,
select the richest imaginable Tyrian purple, a sort of rosy smalt, as the ground of their attire,
which is bordered by a deep phylactery of divers colors in curious needlework, wrought in with
small mirrors, beads, and sparkling crystals. Their saree has a fringe of shells, and their
handsome arms and delicate ankles are laden with rich ornaments The Bunjara women plaid their
hair with crimson silk, and suffer it to fall on either side of the face, the ends secured
with silver tassels, and on the summit of the head they wear a small tiara studded with silver
stars. The reader may think this a fanciful and exaggerated dress for the wife of a drover;
but these costumes are heir-looms, and though they are often seen faded, torn, travel-stained,
and grim, the materials are always as I have described them, differing in freshness, but never
in character.--Sharpe.

XI.--JONQUIL.

Blassemare, meanwhile, made his toilet elaborately, and by ten o'clock was in Paris. He stopped
at the Hotel Secqville.

"Is the marquis yet risen?" he asked.

"No;" he was in his bed; he had not retired until very late, and must not be disturbed.

"But I must see him, my good friend; his happiness, indeed his safety, depends upon my seeing
him immediately."

Blassemare was so very urgent, that at length the servant consented to deliver a note to his
master.

Rubbing his eyes, and more asleep than awake, the marquis took the billet, and read--

"The Sieur de Blassemare, who had the honor of meeting the Marquis de Secqville last night
at the Chateau des Anges, implores a few minutes conversation without one moment's delay; by
granting which the marquis may possibly avert consequences the most deplorable."

Certain shocks are strong enough to restore a drunken man to sobriety in an instant, and, a
fortiori, to dispel in a moment the fumes of sleep. In a few seconds the marquis, in slippers,
and morning-gown, received Blassemare, with many apologies, in his dressing-room.

"A very slight acquaintance will justify a friendly interposition," said Blassemare, after
a few little speeches of ceremony at each side; "and my visit is inspired by a friendly and
charitable motive. The fact is--the fact is--my dear friend, that--your coat is torn."

"My coat torn!" repeated the marquis in surprise, visibly disconcerted, while he affected surprise.

"Yes, the coat you wore last night. Ah! there it is--this blue velvet, with diamond button.
La! Yes, there is the place. It was caught--ha, ha, ha!--in that cursed door; and, egad, as
one of Le Prun's confidential advisers has got the piece in his possession----"

"Psha! you are jesting. Why, there are more blue coats than one in the world."

"I know; but there is only one Marquis de Secqville. And as I happened, purely accidentally,
upon my honor, to witness with my own eyes no inconsiderable part of his last night's adventure,
it may be as well if he reverses his clever points of evidence for Monsieur Le Prun, should
his suspicions chance to take an unfortunate direction."

"What adventure pray, sir, do you speak of?"

"Your interview with Madame Le Prun, your unfortunate descent from the balcony, your flight
through the park-door, and the disastrous severance of a button and a specimen-bit of velvet
from your coat--in short, my dear marquis, you may, if you please, affect a reserve, which,
indeed, I should prefer to a frank confession, by which, although I have nothing to learn,
I should, in some sort, be compelled to regard your secret as one of honor; as it is, you know,
I am free----"

"No gentleman is free to compromise a lady's character by his insinuations."

"Nor by his conduct, my dear marquis. But should he be so unfortunate as to have done so, he
ought, in prudence and generosity, to seal as many lips as he possibly can."

"It seems, sir, to me that you have come to me with a cock-and-a-bull story, to establish an
imaginary connection between me and some stupid adventure, which occurred at the Chateau des
Anges."

"And such being your belief, my dear marquis, I have, of course, only to make my adieux, and
relieve you from so impertinent an intrusion."

"Stay, sir. You are a gentleman; there are, perhaps, circumstances of suspicion. It is very
embarrassing to have a lady's name involved; and--and--in short, sir, I----"

He hesitated.

"What, sir?"

"I throw myself upon your honor!" said the marquis, with an effort, and extending his hand.

"You are right, my dear marquis," said Blassemare, accepting his proffered hand. "You know
I am Le Prun's friend; and as there was no obligation of secrecy, till your own confidence
imposed it, I should have been in a difficult position as respected him. I have now learned
your secret from yourself--honor seals my lips; and so, having put you upon your guard, and
enjoined the extremest caution, at least for the present, I commend you to your presiding planets,
Mercury and Venus. But you had better burn that tell-tale coat; for here is not a shrewder
fellow in all France than Le Prun, and 'gad you are not safe till it is in ashes."

"My dear Blassemare, be my friend; quiet his suspicions. I shall one day tell you all; only
avert his suspicions from her."

"By my faith, that is more than I can do. Give me a line to her; I must direct her conduct,
or she will ruin herself. I know Le Prun; it needs a skilful player to hide one's cards from
him. I am a man of my word; and I pledge my honor that Le Prun shall not have hint of your secret."

"You are right, Blassemare. I can't see her without exposing her to risk; do all you can to
protect her from jealousy."

"Well, give me my credentials."

Secqville wrote:--"Blassemare is the friend of Dubois; Lucille may trust him."

"She knew me first by that name; be careful not to risk losing the paper."

Again they bid farewell, and Blassemare departed.

Blassemare's head was as full of strange images as the steam of a witch's caldron. He had his
own notions of honor--somewhat fantastic and inconsistent, but still strong enough to prevent
his betraying to Le Prun the secret of which he had just made himself completely master. He
was mortified intensely by the discovery of a successful rival where he had so coolly and confidently
flattered himself with a solitary conquest. He looked upon himself as the dupe of a young girl
and her melancholy lover. His vanity, his spleen, and his guilty fancy, which, with the discovery
of his difficulties, expanded almost into a passion, all stimulated him to continue the pursuit,
and his brain teemed with schemes for outwitting them both, supplanting his rival, and gaining
his point.

Full of these, he reached the Chateau des Anges--a sage, trustworthy, and virtuous counsellor
for old Le Prun to lean on in his difficulties!

"You did wrong, in my opinion, to unmask your suspicions to old Charrebourg," said Blassemare,
after he and Le Prun had talked over the affair.

"But he has not seen my wife since, and she, therefore, knows nothing of them."

"Were I in your place, notwithstanding, I should see him again, undo the effect of what I had
said, and so prevent his putting Madame Le Prun on her guard."

"You are right for once. I thought of doing so myself."

Le Prun generally acted promptly; and so he left Blassemare to his meditations. Framing his
little speech of apology as he went along, he traversed several passages, descended a stair
in one of the towers, and found himself at last at the lobby of the Visconte's suite of rooms.
It was now night--and these apartments lying in the oldest part of the chateau, and little
frequented, were but very dimly lighted. There was nobody waiting in the anteroom--the servant
had probably taken advantage of his master's repose, or reverie, to steal away to the gay society
of his brother domestics; and these sombre and magnificently constructed rooms were as deserted
as they were dim.

Having called in vain, the Fermier-General lighted a candle at the murky lamp, and entered
the Visconte's apartment. His step was arrested by a howling from the inner chambers that might
have spoken the despair of an evil spirit.

"Charrebourg! Visconte! Charrebourg!"

No answer--There was a silence--then another swelling howl.

"Psha!--it is that cursed old cur. I had forgotten him. Jonquil, Jonquil! come here, boy."

The old dog came scrambling along, and looking up into Le Prun's face, yelped strangely.

"What!--hungry? They have forgotten you, I dare say. What! not a scrap, not a bone! But where
is your master?"

Le Prun entered the inner room, and the dog, preceding him, ran behind the fauteuil that stood
at the table; and then running a step or two towards Le Prun, raised a howl that made him jump.

"Hey! what's the matter? But, sacre! there is something--what is this?"

There was a candle burning on the table, and writing materials. The Visconte de Charrebourg,
who had evidently been writing, had fallen forward upon the table--dead. Le Prun touched him,
he was quite cold. He raised the tall lank figure as well as he could, so that it leaned back
in the chair; a little blood came from the corner of the mouth, the eyes were glazed, but the
features wore, even in death, a character of sternness and dignity. He had fallen forward upon
the fingers that held the pen, and the hand came stiffly back along with the body, still holding
the pen in the attitude in which the chill of death had stiffened them. In this attitude he
looked as if he only awaited a phrase or a thought of which he was in search to resume his writing.

"Dead--dead--a long time dead! how the devil has all this happened?"

And he looked for a moment at the old hound that was sniffing and whimpering in his master's
ears, as if he could answer him. Poor Jonquil! he has shared his master's fortune fairly--the
better and the worse; for years his humble comrade in the sylvan solitudes of Charrebourg,
and here the solitary witness of his parting moment. Who can say with what more than human
grief that dumb heart is swelling! He will not outlive his old friend many days--Jonquil is
past the age for making new ones.

Le Prun glanced at the letter, a few lines of which the dead man had traced when he was thus
awfully interrupted. "Sir," it began, "the family of Charrebourg, of which I am the unworthy
representative, have been remarkable at all times for a chivalric and honorable spirit. They
have maintained their dignity in prosperity by great deeds and princely munificence--in adversity,
by encountering grief with patience, and insolence with defiance. Insult has never approached
them unexpiated by blood; and I, old as I am, in consequence of what this morning----" here
the summons had interrupted him.

"Intended for me!" said Le Prun, with an ugly sneer. "Well, he can't now put his daughter on
her guard, or inflame her with the magnificent spirit of the beggarly Charrebourgs."

And so saying, he surrendered the chamber to the dead Visconte and his canine watcher.

XII.--ISOLATION.

Blassemare kept his counsel and his word. He dropped no hint to Le Prun of his interview with
the Marquis de Secqville. His own vanity was at once mortified and excited by the discovery
he had made. He was resolved to obliterate the disgrace of having been duped, by the reality
of his meditated triumph. Love and war have much in common, a truth perhaps embodied in the
allegoric loves of Mars and Venus. Certain, at least, it is, that in each pursuit all authorities
agree that every stratagem is fair. Blassemare was not the man to rob this canon of its force
by any morbid scruples of conscience; and having the courage of a lion, associated with some
of the vulpine attributes, and a certain prankish love of mischief, he was tolerably qualified
by nature for the enterprises of rivalry and intrigue.

Le Prun brooded savagely over his suspected wrongs. He awaited with affected contempt, but
a real and malignant anxiety, the verdict of Blassemare, who insisted upon deferring his interview
with Madame Le Prun until some weeks had passed over the grave of that "high and puissant signer,
the Visconte de Charrebourg."

It was nearly a month after the death of that old gentleman, when Blassemare, happening to
meet Madame Le Prun as she walked upon one of the terraces, dressed in so exquisite a suit
of mourning, and looking altogether so irresistibly handsome, that, for the life of him, he
could not forbear saluting, approaching, and addressing her. He was affably received, and the
conversation, at first slight and indifferent, turned gradually, without premeditation on his
part, but, as it were, by a sort of irresistible fatality, into that sombre and troubled channel
whither, sooner or later, though not exactly then, he had determined to direct it.

"Monsieur Le Prun is unaccountably out of spirits, madame--I should say morose, ill-tempered.
I almost fear to approach him."

"Is there any thing to surprise one in that?"

"Why, no, considering his provocations."

"Provocations! what do you mean, sir?"

"Madame must pardon me. I happen to be in possession of some secrets."

There was a short pause, during which Madame Le Prun's color came and went more than once.

"Will Madame Le Prun be so kind as to sit down here for a few minutes, and I will convince
her that I have kept those secrets well, and that I am--I dare not say her friend--but the
most devoted of her servants?"

Madame Le Prun sat down upon the marble couch that stood there, carved with doves and Cupids,
and embowered, in the transparent shadows of myrtle, like a throne of Venus. Blassemare fancied
that he had never beheld so beautiful and piquante an image as Lucille at that moment presented:
her cheeks glowing, her long lashes half dropped over the quenched fires of her proud dark
eyes; her countenance full of a confusion that was at once beautiful and sinister; one hand
laid upon her heart, as if to quell its beatings, and shut with an expression half defiant,
half irresolute--and the pretty fingers of the other unconsciously playing with the tendrils
of a pavenche.

Blassemare enjoyed this pretty picture too much to disturb it by a word. Perhaps, too, there
was comfort to his vanity in the spectacle of her humiliation; at all events he suffered some
time to pass before he spoke to her. When he did, it was with a great deal of respect; for
Blassemare, notwithstanding his coarseness, had a sufficiency of tact.

"Madame perceives that I am not without discretion and zeal in her service."

"Sir, you speak enigmas; you talk of secrets and provocation; and while you affect an air of
deference, your meaning is full of insolence."

It was plain her pride was mastering her fears, Blassemare thought it high time to lower his
key. He therefore said, with a confident smile and an easy air--

"My meaning may be disagreeable, but that is chargeable not upon me, but on the circumstances
of our retrospect; and if I am enigmatical rather than explicit, I am so from respect, not
insolence. My dear madame, on the honor of a gentleman, I saw Monsieur le Marquis de Secqville
take his abrupt departure from your window--you understand. I not only saw him, but found and
retained proofs of his identity, armed with which, I taxed him with the fact, and obtained
his full confession. Now, madame, perhaps you will give me credit for something better than
hypocrisy and insolence."

Lucille looked thunderstruck for a moment, then rising, she darted on him a glance of rage
and defiance, and overpowered by the tumult within her, she burst into a flood of tears, and
covering her face with her hands, sobbed in silence, almost hysterically.

Blassemare waited patiently while she wept on. Suddenly she looked full and fiercely on him,
and cried--

"Perhaps you have told me falsehoods, and dared thus to trifle with me."

"I swear, madame, on the honor of a nobleman of France, I have told you the simple truth. De
Secqville did not venture to deny the fact; on the contrary, he confessed it frankly."

"Yes--I see you tell me the truth; it was base of De Secqville!"

"Well, to say truth, I did think he might have kept a lady's secret better."

Blassemare was ready and unscrupulous; but all is fair in love.

"I am innocent!" she cried, with abrupt vehemence, and fixing her fiery gaze upon him.

"Of course, madame."

"I say I am innocent, sir. Why do you say of course!"

"Because I never knew a lady yet, who was otherwise than innocent."

She looked at him with a lowering contempt--he thought it guilt--for a few moments, then dropping
her gaze gloomily, she murmured, in bitter abstraction--

"Yes, it was base of De Secqville; he ought to have perished rather."

"Egad," thought Blassemare, "my project prospers--she is at my mercy--and disgusted with the
Marquis. I'm no general or she surrenders at discretion."

"De Secqville, madame, is a handsome fellow; but he admires nobody but himself. He has been
all his life--and trust me, he is not quite so young as he pretends--a man of intrigue. He
is not content with his bonnes fortunes, but he boasts of his conquests, and sacrifices reputations
to his vanity. Such men are not to be trusted with impunity, or loved without disgrace. It
is best never to have favored them, and next best to discard them promptly."

He fancied his speech had hit the fierce temper of his auditor. He paused for a time, to let
it work, and then, in a tone of profound humility, said--

"As for me, madame, if one so unworthy dare invite a passing thought of yours, I have but to
ask your forgiveness; if I have said one word that gave you pain, I implore your forgiveness."

