Saturday, 11th. The wind blew very hard in the night, but having abated this morning we went
on very well, till in the afternoon the wind arose and retarded our progress; the current too
was strong, the river very crooked, and the banks as usual constantly precipitating themselves
in large masses into the water. The highlands are broken and approach nearer the river than
they do below. The soil however of both hills and low grounds appear as fertile as that further
down the river: it consists of a black looking loam with a small portion of sand, which cover
the hills and bluffs to the depth of twenty or thirty feet, and when thrown in the water dissolves
as readily as loaf-sugar, and effervesces like marle; there are also great appearances of quartz
and mineral salts: the first is most commonly seen in the faces of the bluffs, the second is
found on the hills as well as the low grounds, and in the gullies which come down from the
hills; it lies in a crust of two or three inches in depth, and may be swept up with a feather
in large quantities. There is no longer any appearance of coal burnt earth or pumicestone.
We saw and visited some high hills on the north side about three miles from the river, whose
tops were covered with the pitch-pine: this in the first pine we have seen on the Missouri,
and it is like that of Virginia, except that the leaves are somewhat longer; among this pine
is also a dwarf cedar, sometimes between three or four feet high, but generally spreading itself
like a vine along the surface of the earth, which it covers very closely, putting out roots
from the under side. The fruit and smell resemble those of the common red cedar, but the leaf
is finer and more delicate. The tops of the hills where these plants grow have a soil quite
different from that just described, the basis of it is usually yellow or white clay, and the
general appearance light coloured, sandy, and barren, some scattering tufts of sedge being
almost its only herbage.

Sunday, 12th. The weather being clear and calm, we set out early. Within a mile we came to
a small creek, about twenty yards wide, emptying itself on the south. At eleven and three quarter
miles we reached a point of woodland on the south, opposite to which is a creek of the same
width as the last, but with little water, which we called Pine creek. At eighteen and three
quarter miles we came to on the south opposite to the lower point of a willow island, situated
in a deep bend of the river to the southeast: here we remained during the day, the wind having
risen at twelve so high that we could not proceed: it continued to blow violently all night,
with occasional sprinklings of rain from sunset till midnight. On both sides of the river the
country is rough and broken, the low grounds becoming narrower; the tops of the hills on the
north exhibits some scattered pine and cedar, on the south the pine has not yet commenced,
though there is some cedar on the sides of the hills and in the little ravines. The chokecherry,
the wild hysop, sage, fleshy-leafed thorn, and particularly the aromatic herb on which the
antelope and hare feed, are to be found on the plains and hills. The soil of the hills has
now altered its texture considerably: their bases, like that of the river plains, is as usual
a rich, black loam, while from the middle to the summits they are composed of a light brown-coloured
earth, poor and sterile, and intermixed with a coarse white sand.

Monday, 13th. The wind was so strong that we could not proceed till about one o'clock, when
we had to encounter a current rather stronger than usual. In the course of a mile and a half
we passed two small creeks on the south, one of eighteen the other of thirty yards width, but
neither of them containing any water, and encamped on the south at a point of woodland, having
made only seven miles. The country is much the same as yesterday, with little timber in the
low grounds, and a small quantity of pine and cedar on the northern hills. The river however
continues to grow clearer, and this as well as the increased rapidity induces us to hope for
some change of country. The game is as usual so abundant that we can get without difficulty
all that is necessary.

Tuesday, 14th. There was some fog on the river this morning, which is a very rare occurrence.
At the distance of a mile and a half we reached an island in a bend on the north, which continued
for about half a mile, when at the head of it a large creek comes in on the north, to which
we gave the name of Gibson's creek. At seven and a half miles is a point of rocks on the south,
above a creek on the same side, which we called Sticklodge creek: five miles further is a large
creek on the south, which like the two others has no running water; and at sixteen and a half
miles a timbered point on the north, where we encamped for the night. The country is like that
of yesterday, except that the low grounds are wider; there are also many high black bluffs
along the banks: the game too is in great abundance.

Wednesday 15. As soon as a slight shower of rain had passed, we spread out the articles to
dry; but the weather was so damp and cloudy that they derived little benefit from exposure.
Our hunters procured us deer, buffaloe, and beaver.

Thursday 16. The morning was fair and we were enabled to dry and repack our stores: the loss
we sustained is chiefly in the medicines, many articles of which are completely spoiled, and
others considerably injured. At four o'clock we embarked, and after making seven miles encamped
on the north near some wood: the country on both sides is broken, the low grounds narrower
and with less timber, though there are some scattered pine and cedar on the steep declivities
of the hills, which are now higher than usual. A white bear tore the coat of one of the men
which he had left on shore; and two of the party wounded a large panther who was feasting on
a deer. We caught some lean antelopes as they were swimming the river, and killed two buffaloe.

Friday 17. We continued on one mile and a quarter, and encamped on the south, after making
twenty and a half miles. The country in general is rugged, the hills high, with their summits
and sides partially covered with pine and cedar, and their bases on both sides washed by the
river: like those already mentioned the lower part of these hills is a dark rich loam, while
the upper region for one hundred and fifty feet consists of a whitish brown sand, so hard as
in many places to resemble stone, though in fact very little stone or rock of any kind is to
be seen on the hills. The bed of the Missouri is much narrower than usual, being not more than
between two and three hundred yards in width, with an uncommonly large proportion of gravel;
but the sandbars, and low points covered with willows have almost entirely disappeared: the
timber on the river consists of scarcely any thing more than a few scattered cottonwood trees.
The saline incrustations along the banks and the foot of the hills are more abundant than usual.
Captain Clarke saw in his excursions a fortified Indian camp which appeared to have been recently
occupied, and was, we presumed, made by a party of Minnetarees who went to war last March.

Late at night we were roused by the sergeant of the guard in consequence of a fire which had
communicated to a tree overhanging our camp. The wind was so high, that we had not removed
the camp more than a few minutes when a large part of the tree fell precisely on the spot it
had occupied, and would have crushed us if we had not been alarmed in time.

Saturday 18. The wind continued high from the west, but by means of the towline we were able
to make nineteen miles, the sandbars being now few in number, the river narrow and the current
gentle; the willow has in a great measure disappeared, and even the cottonwood, almost the
only timber remaining, is growing scarce. At twelve and three quarter miles we came to a creek
on the north, which was perfectly dry. We encamped on the south opposite the lower point of
an island.

Sunday 19. The last night was disagreeably cold; and in the morning there was a very heavy
fog which obscured the river so much as to prevent our seeing the way. This is the first fog
of any degree of thickness which we have experienced: there was also last evening a fall of
dew, the second which we have seen since entering this extensive open country. About eight
o'clock the fog dispersed, and we proceeded with the aid of the towline: the island near which
we were encamped, was three quarters of a mile in length. The country resembles that of yesterday,
high hills closely bordering the river. In the afternoon the river became crooked, and contained
more sawyers or floating timber than we have seen in the same space since leaving the Platte.
At twenty-one miles is a willow island half a mile in length, on the north side, a quarter
of a mile beyond which is a shoal of rapid water under a bluff: the water continued very strong
for some distance beyond it: at half a mile we came to a sandbar on the north, from which to
our place of encampment was another half mile, making in all twenty-two and a quarter miles.
The saline substances which we have mentioned continue to appear; and the men are much afflicted
with sore eyes and imposthumes.

Monday 20. As usual we set out early, and the banks being convenient for that purpose, we used
the towline: the river is narrow and crooked, the water rapid, and the country much like that
of yesterday: at the distance of two and a quarter miles we passed a large creek with but little
water, to which we gave the name of Blowingfly creek, from the quantity of those insects found
in its neighbourhood. They are extremely troublesome, infesting our meat whilst cooking and
at our meals. After making seven miles we reached by eleven o'clock the mouth of a large river
on the south, and encamped for the day at the upper point of its junction with the Missouri.
This stream which we suppose to be that called by the Minnetarees the Muscleshell river, empties
into the Missouri two thousand two hundred and seventy miles above the mouth of the latter
river, and in latitude 47° 0' 24" 6 north. Another party found at the foot of the southern
hills, about four miles from the Missouri, a fine bold spring, which in this country is so
rare that since we left the Mandans we have found only one of a similar kind, and that was
under the bluffs on the south side of the Missouri, at some distance from it, and about five
miles below the Yellowstone: with this exception all the small fountains of which we have met
a number are impregnated with the salts which are so abundant here, and with which the Missouri
is itself most probably tainted, though to us who have been so much accustomed to it, the taste
is not perceptible. Among the game to-day we observed two large owls, with remarkably long
feathers resembling ears on the sides of the head, which we presume are the hooting owls, though
they are larger and their colours are brighter than those common in the United States.

Tuesday 21. The morning being very fine we were able to employ the rope and made twenty miles
to our camp on the north. The shores of the river are abrupt, bold and composed of a black
and yellow clay, the bars being formed of black mud, and a small proportion of fine sand; the
current strong. In its course the Missouri makes a sudden and extensive bend towards the south,
to receive the waters of the Muscleshell. The neck of land thus formed, though itself high
is lower than the surrounding country, and makes a waving valley extending for a great distance
to the northward, with a fertile soil which, though without wood, produces a fine turf of low
grass, some herbs and vast quantities of prickly pear. The country on the south is high, broken,
and crowned with some pine and dwarf cedar; the leaf of this pine is longer than that of the
common pitch or red pine of Virginia, the cone is longer and narrower, the imbrications wider
and thicker, and the whole frequently covered with rosin. During the whole day the bends of
the river are short and sudden; and the points covered with some cottonwood, large or broad
leaved willow, and a small quantity of redwood; the undergrowth consisting of wild roses, and
the bushes of the small honeysuckle.

The mineral appearances on the river are as usual. We do not find the grouse or prairie hen
so abundant as below, and think it probable that they retire from the river to the plains during
this season.

The wind had been moderate during the fore part of the day, but continued to rise towards evening,
and about dark veered to northeast, and blew a storm all night. We had encamped on a bar on
the north, opposite the lower point of an island, which from this circumstance we called Windy
island; but we were so annoyed by clouds of dust and sand that we could neither eat nor sleep,
and were forced to remove our camp at eight o'clock to the foot of an adjoining hill, which
shielded us in some degree from the wind: we procured elk, deer, and buffaloe.

Wednesday 22. The wind blew so violently that it was deemed prudent to wait till it had abated,
so that we did not leave the camp till ten o'clock, when we proceeded principally by the towline.
We passed Windy island which is about three quarters of a mile in length: and five and a half
miles above it a large island in a bend to the north: three miles beyond this we came to the
entrance of a creek twenty yards wide, though with little water, which we called Grouse creek,
from observing near its mouth a quantity of the prairie hen with pointed tails, the first we
have seen in such numbers for several days: the low grounds are somewhat wider than usual and
apparently fertile, though the short and scanty grass on the hills does not indicate much richness
of soil. The country around is not so broken as that of yesterday, but is still waving, the
southern hills possessing more pine than usual, and some appearing on the northern hills, which
are accompanied by the usual salt and mineral appearances.

The river continues about two hundred and fifty yards wide, with fewer sandbars, and the current
more gentle and regular. Game is no longer in such abundance, since leaving the Muscleshell.
We halted earlier than usual, and encamped on the north, in a point of woods, at the distance
of sixteen and a half miles.

Thursday 23. Last night the frost was severe, and this morning the ice appeared along the edges
of the river, and the water froze on our oars. At the distance of a mile we passed the entrance
of a creek on the north, which we named Teapot creek; it is fifteen yards wide, and although
it has running water at a small distance from its mouth, yet it discharges none into the Missouri,
resembling, we believe, most of the creeks in this hilly country, the waters of which are absorbed
by the thirsty soil near the river. They indeed afford but little water in any part, and even
that is so strongly tainted with salts that it is unfit for use, though all the wild animals
are very fond of it. On experiment it was found to be moderately purgative, but painful to
the intestines in its operation. This creek seems to come from a range of low hills, which
run from east to west for seventy miles, and have their eastern extremity thirty miles to the
north of Teapot creek. Just above its entrance is a large assemblage of the burrowing squirrels
on the north side of the river. At nine miles we reached the upper point of an island in a
bend on the south, and opposite the centre of the island, a small dry creek on the north. Half
a mile further a small creek falls in on the same side; and six and a half miles beyond this
another on the south. At four and a half we passed a small island in a deep bend to the north,
and on the same side in a deep northeastern bend of the river another small island. None of
these creeks however possessed any water, and at the entrances of the islands, the two first
are covered with tall cottonwood timber, and the last with willows only. The river has become
more rapid, the country much the same as yesterday, except that there is rather more rocks
on the face of the hills, and some small spruce pine appears among the pitch. The wild roses
are very abundant and now in bloom; they differ from those of the United States only in having
the leaves and the bush itself of a somewhat smaller size. We find the musquitoes troublesome,
notwithstanding the coolness of the morning. The buffaloe is scarce to-day, but the elk, deer,
and antelope, are very numerous. The geese begin to lose the feathers of the wings, and are
unable to fly. We saw five bears, one of which we wounded, but in swimming from us across the
river, he become entangled in some driftwood and sank. We formed our camp on the north opposite
to a hill and a point of wood in a bend to the south, having made twenty-seven miles.

Friday 24. The water in the kettles froze one eighth of an inch during the night; the ice appears
along the margin of the river, and the cottonwood trees which have lost nearly all their leaves
by the frost, are putting forth other buds. We proceeded with the line principally till about
nine o'clock, when a fine breeze sprung up from the S.E. and enabled us to sail very well,
notwithstanding the rapidity of the current. At one mile and a half is a large creek thirty
yards wide, and containing some water which it empties on the north side, over a gravelly bed,
intermixed with some stone. A man who was sent up to explore the country returned in the evening,
after having gone ten miles directly towards the ridge of mountains to the north, which is
the source of this as well as of Teapot creek. The air of these highlands is so pure, that
objects appear much nearer than they really are, so that although our man went ten miles without
thinking himself by any means half way to the mountains, they do not from the river appear
more than fifteen miles distant; this stream we called Northmountain creek. Two and a half
miles higher is a creek on the south which is fifteen yards wide, but without any water, and
to which we gave the name of Littledog creek, from a village of burrowing squirrels opposite
to its entrance, that being the name given by the French watermen to those animals. Three miles
from this a small creek enters on the north, five beyond which is an island a quarter of a
mile in length, and two miles further a small river: this falls in on the south, is forty yards
wide, and discharges a handsome stream of water; its bed rocky with gravel and sand, and the
banks high: we called it Southmountain creek, as from its direction it seemed to rise in a
range of mountains about fifty or sixty miles to the S.W. of its entrance. The high country
through which we have passed for some days, and where we now are, we suppose to be a continuation
of what the French traders called the Cote Noire or Black hills. The country thus denominated
consists of high broken irregular hills and short chains of mountains; sometimes one hundred
and twenty miles in width, sometimes narrower, but always much higher than the country on either
side. They commence about the head of the Kanzas, where they diverge; the first ridge going
westward, along the northern shore of the Arkansaw; the second approaches the Rock mountains
obliquely in a course a little to the W. of N.W. and after passing the Platte above its forks,
and intersecting the Yellowstone near the Bigbend, crosses the Missouri at this place, and
probably swell the country as far as the Saskashawan, though as they are represented much smaller
here than to the south, they may not reach that river.

Saturday, 25th. Two canoes which were left behind yesterday to bring on the game, did not join
us till eight o'clock this morning, when we set out with the towline, the use of which the
banks permitted. The wind was, however, ahead, the current strong, particularly round the points
against which it happened to set, and the gullies from the hills having brought down quantities
of stone, those projected into the river, forming barriers for forty or fifty feet round, which
it was very difficult to pass. At the distance of two and three quarter miles we passed a small
island in a deep bend on the south, and on the same side a creek twenty yards wide, but with
no running water. About a mile further is an island between two and three miles in length,
separated from the northern shore by a narrow channel, in which is a sand island at the distance
of half a mile from its lower extremity. To this large island we gave the name of Teapot island;
two miles above which is an island a mile long, and situated on the south. At three and a half
miles is another small island, and one mile beyond it a second three quarters of a mile in
length, on the north side. In the middle of the river two miles above this is an island with
no timber, and of the same extent as this last. The buffaloe have now become scarce: we saw
a polecat this evening, which was the first for several days: in the course of the day we also
saw several herds of the big-horned animals among the steep cliffs on the north, and killed
several of them. At the distance of eighteen miles we encamped on the south, and the next morning,

Sunday, 26th, proceeded on at an early hour by means of the towline, using our oars merely
in passing the river, to take advantage of the best banks. There are now scarcely any low grounds
on the river, the hills being high and in many places pressing on both sides to the verge of
the water. The black rock has given place to a very soft sandstone, which seems to be washed
away fast by the river, and being thrown into the river renders its navigation more difficult
than it was yesterday: above this sandstone, and towards the summits of the hills, a hard freestone
of a yellowish brown colour shows itself in several stratas of unequal thickness, frequently
overlaid or incrusted by a thin stratum of limestone, which seems to be formed of concreted
shells. At eight and a quarter miles we came to the mouth of a creek on the north, thirty yards
wide, with some running water and a rocky bed: we called it Windsor creek, after one of the
party. Four and three quarter miles beyond this we came to another creek in a bend to the north,
which is twenty yards wide, with a handsome little stream of water: there is however no timber
on either side of the river, except a few pines on the hills. Here we saw for the first time
since we left the Mandans several soft shelled turtles, though this may be owing rather to
the season of the year than to any scarcity of the animal. Four and a half miles beyond this
creek we came to the upper point of a small sand island. At the distance of five miles between
high bluffs, we passed a very difficult rapid, reaching quite across the river, where the water
is deep, the channel narrow, and gravel obstructing it on each side: we had great difficulty
in ascending it, although we used both the rope and the pole, and doubled the crews: this is
the most considerable rapid on the Missouri, and in fact the only place where there is a sudden
descent: as we were labouring over them, a female elk with its fawn swam down through the waves,
which ran very high, and obtained for the place the name of the Elk Rapids. Just above them
is a small low ground of cottonwood trees, where, at twenty-two and a quarter miles we fixed
our encampment, and were joined by captain Lewis, who had been on the hills during the afternoon.

The country has now become desert and barren: the appearances of coal, burnt earth, pumicestone,
salts, and quartz, continue as yesterday: but there is no timber except the thinly scattered
pine and spruce on the summits of the hills, or along the sides. The only animals we have observed
are the elk, the bighorn, and the hare, common in this country. In the plain where we lie are
two Indian cabins made of sticks, and during the last few days we have passed several others
in the points of timber on the river.

Monday, 27. The wind was so high that we did not start till ten o'clock, and even then were
obliged to use the line during the greater part of the day.

Soon after setting out we passed a small untimbered island on the south: at about seven miles
we reached a considerable bend which the river makes towards the southeast, and in the evening,
after making twelve and a half miles, encamped on the south near two dead cottonwood trees,
the only timber for fuel which we could discover in the neighbourhood.

Tuesday, 28. The weather was dark and cloudy; the air smoky, and there fell a few drops of
rain. At ten o'clock we had again a slight sprinkling of rain, attended with distant thunder,
which is the first we have heard since leaving the Mandans. We employed the line generally,
with the addition of the pole at the ripples and rocky points, which we find more numerous
and troublesome than those we passed yesterday. The water is very rapid round these points,
and we are sometimes obliged to steer the canoes through the points of sharp rocks rising a
few inches above the surface of the water, and so near to each other that if our ropes give
way the force of the current drives the sides of the canoe against them, and must inevitably
upset them or dash them to pieces. These cords are very slender, being almost all made of elkskin,
and much worn and rotted by exposure to the weather: several times they gave way, but fortunately
always in places where there was room for the canoe to turn without striking the rock; yet
with all our precautions it was with infinite risk and labour that we passed these points.
An Indian pole for building floated down the river, and was worn at one end as if dragged along
the ground in travelling; several other articles were also brought down by the current, which
indicate that the Indians are probably at no great distance above us, and judging from a football
which resembles those used by the Minnetarees near the Mandans, we conjecture that they must
be a band of the Minnetarees of fort de Prairie. The appearance of the river and the surrounding
country continued as usual, till towards evening, at about fifteen miles, we reached a large
creek on the north thirty-five yards wide, discharging some water, and named after one of our
men Thompson's creek.

Wednesday, 29. Last night we were alarmed by a new sort of enemy.

In the morning early we left our camp, and proceeded as usual by the cord. On examining some
moccasins which we found there, our Indian woman said that they did not belong to her own nation
the Snake Indians, but she thought that they indicated a tribe on this side of the Rocky mountain,
and to the north of the Missouri; indeed it is probable that these are the Minnetarees of fort
de Prairie. At the distance of six and a half miles the hills again approach the brink of the
river, and the stones and rocks washed down from them form a very bad rapid, with rocks and
ripples more numerous and difficult than those we passed on the 27th and 28th; here the same
scene was renewed, and we had again to struggle and labour to preserve our small craft from
being lost. Near this spot are a few trees of the ash, the first we have seen for a great distance,
and from which we named the place Ash Rapids. On these hills there is but little timber, but
the salts, coal, and other mineral appearances continue. The wolves who had been feasting on
these carcases were very fat, and so gentle that one of them was killed with an esponton. Above
this place we came to for dinner at the distance of seventeen miles, opposite to a bold running
river of twenty yards wide, and falling in on the south. From the objects we had just passed
we called this stream Slaughter river. Its low grounds are narrow, and contain scarcely any
timber. Soon after landing it began to blow and rain, and as there was no prospect of getting
wood for fuel farther on, we fixed our camp on the north, three quarters of a mile above Slaughter
river. After the labours of the day we gave to each man a dram, and such was the effect of
long abstinence from spirituous liquors, that from the small quantity of half a gill of rum,
several of the men were considerably affected by it, and all very much exhilirated. Our game
to-day consisted of an elk and two beaver.

Thursday, 30. The rain which commenced last evening continued with little intermission till
eleven this morning, when the high wind which accompanied it having abated, we set out. More
rain has now fallen than we have had since the 1st of September last, and many circumstances
indicate our approach to a climate differing considerably from that of the country through
which we have been passing: the air of the open country is astonishingly dry and pure. Observing
that the case of our sextant, though perfectly seasoned, shrank and the joints opened, we tried
several experiments, by which it appeared that a tablespoon full of water exposed in a saucer
to the air would evaporate in thirty-six hours, when the mercury did not stand higher than
the temperate point at the greatest heat of the day. The river, notwithstanding the rain, is
much clearer than it was a few days past; but we advance with great labour and difficulty;
the rapid current, the ripples and rocky points rendering the navigation more embarrassing
than even that of yesterday, in addition to which the banks are now so slippery after the rain,
that the men who draw the canoes can scarcely walk, and the earth and stone constantly falling
down the high bluffs make it dangerous to pass under them; still however we are obliged to
make use of the cord, as the wind is strong ahead, the current too rapid for oars, and too
deep for the pole. In this way we passed at the distance of five and a half miles a small rivulet
in a bend on the north, two miles further an island on the same side, half a mile beyond which
came to a grove of trees at the entrance of a run in a bend to the south, and encamped for
the night on the northern shore. The eight miles which we made to-day cost us much trouble.
The air was cold and rendered more disagreeable by the rain, which fell in several slight showers
in the course of the day; our cords too broke several times, but fortunately without injury
to the boats. On ascending the hills near the river, one of the party found that there was
snow mixed with the rain on the heights: a little back of these the country becomes perfectly
level on both sides of the river. There is now no timber on the hills, and only a few scattering
cottonwood, ash, box-alder, and willows, along the water.

