MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Take a piece of frozen venison, and put into water in which has been put two tablespoons of
vinegar. Just leave until the ice comes to the surface of the meat, take the meat out and remove
the ice with a knife; wipe dry and flour well, put a good piece of butter in the pan; let brown,
put the steak in salt, and pepper, fry on both sides, then add a cup of rich milk, push the
pan to the back of the stove and cover it and let it stew slowly for one and a half hours--If
the steak is very dry lard it with salt pork before frying.

STEWED PIGEONS.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

For two pair of pigeons stuff first with bread, summer savory, butter, pepper, salt. Put eight
or nine slices of fat pork, in an iron pot to fry, until the pork is well browned, then take
it out and put in the pigeons and let brown thoroughly, keep turning to prevent burning. Then
add one pint of stock, season if required, put back slices of pork and let stew for an hour
and a half (at least) quietly. If gravy is not thick enough, add a tablespoon of brown flour.
About quarter of an hour before done, put in a can of green peas--Then serve.

STEWED HARE.

Can be prepared in the same manner as the above for stewed pigeons, with the addition of spices:
cloves a few, and a little more of cinnamon.

BREAD SAUCE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

One half pint boiled milk to one cup of fine bread crumbs, one small onion, two cloves, one
piece of mace, salt to taste, let simmer five minutes, add small piece of butter.

CRANBERRY JELLY.

Pare, quarter, and core twelve good sized tart apples, place in a porcelain kettle with two
quarts of cranberries, cover well with cold water and stew until soft, then strain through
a jelly bag, add to this juice two pounds of confectioner's sugar, and boil as you would any
other jelly, until it falls from the skimmer; when you dip it in skim off any froth that arises
while boiling, put in moulds and let it get firm before using.

PLAIN DRESSING FOR FOWLS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

One cup and a half of bread crumbs (not too stale), one heaped teaspoon each of parsley, thyme
and savory, one dessert spoonful butter, half teaspoon salt, quarter of a teaspoon pepper,
mix all together with a little milk.

PLAIN DRESSING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS.

One cup breadcrumbs or potatoes, one cup or more of stewed onions, one tablespoon sage, pepper,
salt and a little butter, mix with a little milk.

APPLES.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

When the barrel of apples you have bought, begins to make your mind uneasy, because they can
spoil faster than you can use them, a good plan is to peel, core and stir them with a very
little sugar and screw them down in your jam jars. They will keep for a couple of months and
will be handy to fill a tart or as apple sauce, etc.; they do not need to be cooked too much
and some of the firmer sorts may remain in quarters solid enough for a pie. Another plan is
to peel but not core the suspicious ones, then let them freeze solid, when frozen pack them
in a box and cover. Keep them where they will not thaw. When you wish for a dish of baked apples,
put them in your baking pan, scatter a little sugar over them and put them in a quick oven
without letting them thaw, when done, they should each be whole and a pretty brown color.

BEANS.

Beans are a nice winter vegetable, but cooked with pork as "baked beans," are too strong for
daily use, but are a desirable article of food cooked more plainly. Choose the small white
beans, put them in a saucepan with as much cold water, as will cover them well and a small
pinch of baking soda; when they have simmered a few minutes drain off the water and replace
it with hot water and a little salt; if possible let them cook without boiling hard; when tender
drain, and dish with a liberal piece of butter and a dust of pepper. They are also good thrown
when drained into the frying pan with some dripping, pepper and salt, and heated a few minutes
over the fire. The only attention they require in cooking is lest they melt into soup when
nearly cooked.

FRIED BEETS.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Boil until tender, slice and put in stewpan with a teaspoon of vinegar, half the juice of a
lemon, one half teaspoonful each sugar and salt, a grate of nutmeg and a dash of pepper. Add
two tablespoonfuls of stock, a teaspoon butter, and let simmer one half hour.

CREAMED CABBAGE.

MISS J. E. FRASER.

Cut a medium sized cabbage in quarters. Take out the stem, put into a kettle of boiling water,
cook for ten minutes, drain and cover with cold water. This will destroy the odor so unpleasant.
When cold, chop fine, season with salt and pepper. Make a sauce of two tablespoons of butter,
one tablespoon flour, mix smooth, add one pint of milk; cook in this sauce slowly for three
quarters of an hour.

STEWED CUCUMBERS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Peel a nice straight cucumber, cut in four lengthwise, scoop out all seeds, and cut it in pieces
about three inches long; throw these into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt. When
they bend under the touch, they are done, drain in a sieve, then put in a stewpan with a good
sized piece of butter, finely chopped parsley salt and pepper. Toss over the fire till thoroughly
heated through and serve in a hot dish.

OYSTER CABBAGE.

MRS. D. M. COOK.

Mince fine one half a cabbage, boil for ten minutes and strain off water. Then cover cabbage
with milk and let come to a boil, add rolled cracker crumbs, butter size of a walnut, salt
and pepper to taste.

CORN OMELET.

Boil one half dozen ears of corn, cut corn from the cob; beat four eggs separately, add to
the corn the beaten yolks, salt and pepper, put in the whites last, fry in a pan with plenty
of butter.

MACARONI AND CHEESE.

MISS H. BARCLAY.

Boil quarter of a pound of macaroni in water, for half an hour, cool and chop. Make a sauce
of one tablespoonful butter, one dessertspoon of flour, half pint milk, one teaspoonful of
mustard. Boil one minute; mix all together with three ounces of grated cheese. Put in a shallow
dish sprinkling top with cheese. Bake a golden brown and garnish with toast.

MACARONI.

MRS. THOM.

One half pound macaroni, one half pound cheese, one quarter pound of butter, pint of milk,
mustard and cayenne. Boil macaroni in salt and water until tender, drain and lay in dish. Put
pint of milk on fire, just before boiling, add one tablespoon flour, rubbed smooth in a little
cold milk, butter, nearly all the cheese grated, mustard and cayenne. Boil until thick as custard,
then pour over macaroni, sprinkle remainder of cheese on top with some small pieces of butter;
if used immediately bake twenty minutes, if allowed to get cold one half hour.

CREAM-BAKED ONIONS.

MRS. J. S. THOM.

Pare as many good-sized onions as required and cover with boiling water, boil for ten minutes,
then drain. Cover again with boiling water to which add one half teaspoon of salt, and cook
till tender. Drain carefully and put the onions in a baking dish, place on each a teaspoon
of butter, add pepper and salt to taste, then fill the dish half full of milk and cover with
a layer of fine bread-crumbs. Bake till a delicate brown.

CORN OYSTERS.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

One pint green grated corn, two tablespoons of milk, two eggs, two tablespoons of butter, flour
to make a batter. Fry with butter.

OYSTER PANCAKES.

MRS. WADDLE.

One quart of new milk, three eggs, one half dozen green corn grated, one half teacup melted
butter, one teaspoon salt and pepper. Flour enough to make a thin batter, fry with butter.

STIRRED POTATOES WITH EGGS.

MISS GRACE MACMILLAN.

Eight cold boiled potatoes chopped fine. Put into the saucepan a piece of butter the size of
an egg. When it melts stir in the potatoes, stirring them till brown, then pour in four well
beaten eggs, and stir them well through the potatoes. Serve very hot.

SWEET POTATOES STUFFED.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Four large sized sweet potatoes baked until tender, then cut carefully in two. Cut a piece
off each end, so they will stand, then scoop out, leaving the skins perfect. Mash the potato
fine with an egg dressing as follows: boil four eggs hard, mash the yolks to a paste with cream
to thin, salt and pepper to taste and a little mustard if liked; with this mixture fill the
skins, place a piece of butter on top of each, and bake until well browned. Serve in individual
saucers with a small doyley under.

POTATO FRILL.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

Boil and mash some potatoes, working in a little milk and butter but not enough to make the
paste soft; while hot add one beaten egg. Shape this paste into a fence on the inside round
of a shallow dish, fluting it with the round handle of a knife. Set one minute in a hot oven
but not long enough to cause the fence to crack. Glaze quickly with butter and pour the meat
carefully within the wall. The mince should not be so thin as to wash away the frill.

POTATO PUFF.

MISS CORDELIA JACKSON. If properly mixed it will come out of the oven light, puffy and delectable.

POTATO PEARS.

MRS. J. S. THOM

Boil six or eight large potatoes, when well done mash thoroughly, adding a little butter, cream,
pepper and salt. Mould into shape of pears, putting a clove into stem and brush over with beaten
egg, and put into the oven to brown slightly.

POTATO FRICASSÉ.

MRS. J. T. SMYTHE.

Cut into thin slices one half pound of fat salt pork. Place in stewpan, when brown, add an
onion sliced and a little cold water, cook a few minutes. Cut up a number of good sized potatoes,
add this to onion and pork and one half teaspoon of pepper. Cover well with cold water. Let
this boil hard for hours. If about half an hour before serving, it is found not to be thick
enough, take off cover and boil until it does thicken.

PEAS WITH CREAM SAUCE.

MRS. STOCKING.

Put one quart of peas in a kettle of salted boiling water and cook fifteen minutes; drain,
put a tablespoon of butter in a saucepan, add a tablespoon of flour, mix; add a cup of milk;
stir constantly until boiling; add salt, pepper and then the peas; stand over boiling water
about five minutes and serve as garnish to baked, broiled or fried sweetbreads.

CREAMED RICE.

MRS. LAWRENCE.

Two thirds cup raw rice, one quart of milk, one half cup sugar, flavor with grated rind of
lemon or nutmeg. Cook in a pie dish in moderate oven for one and half hour.

TO BOIL RICE.

MISS M. SAMPSON.

Have enough boiling water with a pinch of salt to more than cover the rice, boil for twenty
minutes, do not stir, strain through a collander when cooked, and serve.

SPINACH ON TOAST.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

Cook twenty minutes in boiling salted water. Drain and chop fine. Put a tablespoon of butter
into a saucepan with a teaspoon of sugar, a pinch of nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir in the spinach
and beat smooth while it heats; at the last, add one tablespoonful of cream or two of milk.
Pour upon crustless slices of buttered toast laid upon a flat dish.

VEGETABLE MARROW.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Cut in slices half an inch thick, peel and remove the spongy portion; fry in hot dripping or
butter, pepper and salt; also nice to make a light batter and dip the slices in, afterwards
frying a golden brown.

ENTRÉES AND MEATS RÉCHAUFFÉ.

BEEF CROQUETTES.

MISS FRANCIS FRY.

Two cups beef (minced fine), one cup stock, two pounds flour, one pound butter, one teaspoon
lemon juice or vinegar, ditto of onion and salt, one half teaspoon pepper, two eggs, bread
or biscuit crumbs. Make a thick sauce by cooking flour and butter; add gradually stock and
lemon juice, season; add chopped meat with the onion and one egg. Cook five minutes and turn
out to cool. Form into shape roll in beaten egg and crumbs, and fry in boiling lard.

CREAM OF CHICKEN.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

Pound three quarters of a pound of chicken, veal or rabbit until quite smooth, then pound one
half pound of panada (bread soaked in hot milk), and mix the two together, add two tablespoonfuls
of thick soubise sauce, an ounce and a quarter butter, two tablespoons sherry, a little pepper
and salt and three whole eggs. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve and then add two
tablespoons of thick cream. Butter some small timbale moulds and fill them with the mixture,
remembering to hit the moulds on the table after having put the mixture into them and steam
them about fifteen minutes. Turn them out carefully and serve hot. Tomato sauce poured around
them is an improvement. If preferred they can be cold and decorated with aspic jelly and a
ragout made of truffles, cooked tongue, or ham and button mushrooms, or a little tomato salad
could be used.

SOUBISE SAUCE.

Put some onions to soak for ten minutes in boiling water. Peel them, cut in halves or quarters.
Put them in a small saucepan with a lump of fresh butter; simmer very slowly until the onions
are quite cooked, add salt to taste; thicken with flour, or flour and fine bread crumbs, and
add cream or milk. Pass through a sieve, must be thick and smooth. Some people like a pinch
of sugar.

JELLIED CHICKEN.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Take an old fowl, boil until so tender the bones will leave the meat; set aside to cool: next
day skim off the fat and boil down to one quart, to this add one ounce of sheet gelatine previously
steeped in a little cold water. Pepper and salt to taste, with a little ground savory. Put
the meat in a pie dish and by degrees add the liquid to avoid having the meat all in one place.
This should turn out well when cold.

MAKE A DOZEN CHICKEN CROQUETTES.

MRS. ANDREW THOMSON.

White of two chickens well minced, one wineglass of sherry, one half pint of cream, pepper
and salt and a little cayenne to taste, mix well and put into a buttered mould; steam for one hour.

CHICKEN MOULD. (Served Cold.)

MADAME J. T.

Put over one large chicken in a pint and a half of cold water, with a medium sized onion, three
stalks of celery, and a small bunch parsley. Let simmer gently (not boil), for two hours. Then
remove chicken, pick the meat from the bones, and cut into pieces about an inch long. Put the
bones back into the broth and let this boil down to three quarters of a pint. Add gradually
two cups cream in which a tablespoonful of flour has been dissolved. When the flour has thickened
remove from fire and add two well beaten eggs and a very little nutmeg. Garnish a mould with
slices of hard boiled egg and sprigs of parsley. Pour in chicken mixture. Allow to set and
serve on lettuce leaves. This will serve eight people.

CURRY. (Excellent.)

MRS. W. COOK.

Take several small onions, chop them up very fine, put them into a pan with a piece of butter,
stew them over the fire until the onions are quite dissolved and turned to a light brown. Cut
meat into small pieces and rub the curry powder well into the raw meat. Put it into a stew
pan with onion and an apple minced fine and a teaspoonful of cream, and let it all simmer for
two or three hours. It must not boil.

FISH RÉCHAUFFÉ

One pound cooked fish, one tablespoon each of mushroom ketchup, essence of anchovy, Harvey's
sauce and mustard, one ounce of butter, rolled flour and one half a pint of cream, a wall of
potatoes. Divide the fish into flakes, place it with cream and butter into a stew pan, until
very hot. Mash the potatoes, and add to them one tablespoon cream, one yolk of egg, pepper
and salt; well butter a wall mould and sprinkle with browned bread crumbs, and place it in
the oven till hot, turn it out on a silver dish and pour the ragoût in the centre. Garnish
with lemon and parsley.

FISH CROQUETTES.

MISS FRY.

Mash freshly boiled potatoes, add one egg and flour to make a stiff dough. Roll out thin and
cut with a round cutter. Spread on one half the cake chopped fish, mixed with parsley, fold
over and press down the edges. Fry in lard.

HOMINY CROQUETTES.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

To a cupful of cold boiled hominy, add a tablespoonful of melted butter, and stir, moistening
by degrees with a cupful of milk beating to a soft light paste, one teacupful of white sugar,
and lastly a well beaten egg. Roll in oval balls with floured hands in egg and bread crumbs
and fry in hot lard.

POTTED HEAD.

MISS EDITH M. HENRY.

Take the shank (lower), of meat, cover with water, boil until tender enough to cut up in dice,
take off and cut the meat into dice, then throw back into pot, flavor with pepper, salt, mace,
celery seed, cayenne pepper, allspice and cloves. Then have ready a little gelatine, mix all
through well and let boil a short time, then pour into a cold shape.

KEGEREE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

One teacup of freshly boiled rice, one half quarter of boiled salmon, two soft boiled eggs,
lump of butter, salt and pepper. Mix all together and put it in a mould to steam.

DEVILLED LIVER.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

To three pounds of uncooked liver, one quarter of a pound of uncooked salt pork, one half pint
of bread crumbs, three tablespoons of salt, one teaspoon of pepper, one half a teaspoon each
of cayenne pepper, mace and cloves. Mode.--Chop the liver and pork very fine, add the other
ingredients mixing well, put it into a covered mould, and set in a saucepan of cold water,
cover and place on the fire to cook two hours. Take out the mould, uncover and let it stand
in an open oven to let the steam off. This is a cold dish.

MEAT CROQUETTES.

MADAME J. T.

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, two tablespoon of stock, one tablespoon milk.
Let boil until it thickens, then add small teaspoonful onion juice (grated), one teaspoon lemon
juice, one small teaspoon lemon rind, pepper and salt, one grate of nutmeg. When well blended,
add one beaten up egg, cupful of chopped meat (any kind.) Let this mixture cool in a soup plate
and roll into cork shaped croquettes with finely grated bread crumbs and fry in lard hot. Serve
on a napkin with parsley and lemon rind.

MOCK PATÉ DE FOIE GRAS.

MRS. BLAIR.

Rub the bottom of a stew-pan five times across with a piece of fresh cut garlic, put in three
pounds of larded calf's liver, with two chopped shallots, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, a blade
of mace, four pepper corns, two cloves, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar,
and half a pint of stock: simmer gently for four hours. Then cut the liver into thin slices,
place in a basin, and cover with the liquid: let it remain until next day. Then pound the liver
to a paste, add a tablespoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper; add three quarters
of a pound of clarified butter; pound well together and pass through a wire sieve; put into
pots; smooth over the top with a knife, then pour over hot clarified butter or lard and keep
in a cool place.

POTATO CROQUETTES.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, beat up with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter
and three eggs, make into rolls, cover with cracker dust, or bread crumbs and fry.

KIDNEY STEW.

MRS. SEPTIMUS BARROW.

One tablespoon flour, one half tablespoon of salt, one saltspoon pepper, three gills stock
or water, one tablespoon mushroom ketchup, two ounces butter or bacon fat. First: Wash the
kidney and remove the core--cut into thin slices; mix together pepper, salt and flour, roll
kidney in it. Brown it quickly in the butter, then add stock or water; skim well and cook very
slowly for two hours.

STEWED SWEETBREADS.

MRS. ERNEST WURTELE.

