The whole history of political thought in the last two centuries is a study of complex interactions
between processes going forward in each of the leading nations. The liberalism of Locke and
the principles of the Whig revolution profoundly influenced France, and the very fact that
distance lent them enchantment and allowed them to be idealized gave them a value as a stimulus
to the French critic of absolute government which they could hardly exercise at home, where
their real limitations were better known. The French revolution bore on the entire thought
of Europe, alike by sympathy and antipathy, producing the reactionary philosophies of Burke
in England and of Hegel in Germany, and the endeavour to formulate a new and safer line of
Radicalism by Bentham. Philosophical Radicalism expressed in the main by the distinct but related
Manchester school had two generations of development in England, and was felt as a real influence
abroad during the period of comparative peace that followed Waterloo and that raised men's
hopes of an era that should put wars aside and devote itself to the essential progress of mankind.
French influences again, particularly that of Comte acting through J.S. Mill, brought new life
into this school as the first flush of its youth was fading. Finally, as we have seen, German
influences overwhelmed it, and England, fascinated as much by the prestige of Germany as by
her thought, gravitated more and more to the doctrine of the self-contained, military, Protectionist,
all-powerful State. In this story of political thought events have been no less potent than
arguments. The failure and success of institutions, the victories and defeats of countries
identified with certain principles have repeatedly brought new strength and resolution to the
adherents or opponents of those principles as the case might be in all lands. The successive
steps by which Italy secured unity and freedom were a perpetual encouragement to believers
in national right and liberal government throughout the middle of the century. The triumph
of Germany in 1870 was a victory for autocratic power, for discipline, for unscrupulous statesmanship,
for blood and iron, which effected a conversion, only half conscious and very slow in producing
its result, but all the more complete for that reason, in the attitude of men to fundamental
questions of social ethics. Looking back on the hundred years that separate the two European
cataclysms, the historian will discover a rise of liberal and humanitarian opinions to ascendancy
in the earlier period and a reaction against them towards the close. The causes of such a change
are multifarious and tangled, but he will, I believe, recognize the year 1870 and the victory
of Bismarck as the dividing line. May it be so that he will find in the present war another
turning-point from which a new movement is to begin.

Be this as it may, we may rest assured that the political thought of Europe, like its philosophy
and its science, will go forward or backward as a unity. It may move by peaceful and friendly
co-operation or by the stimulus of embittered rivalry. But its many centres are related by
so many strands of connexion that the movement in any one of these is reflected in the rest.
The liberties of England are fostered by the emancipation of the Alsatian, the Slovak, or the
Pole. They are enfeebled by the victories of political autocracy or the military machine. Thinkers,
it may be said, ought to be above these mundane influences. Philosophy should deal with what
is in itself and eternally rational and just and wise. But philosophy as it exists on earth
is the work of philosophers, who, authority tells us, suffer as much from toothache as other
mortals, and are, like others, open to the impressions of near and striking events and to the
seductions of intellectual fashion. Yet, if the larger thought is worth anything, it should
enable those who follow it to look a little further beyond the present and a little deeper
below the surface differences that distract the kindred peoples. If the thinkers are true to
their thought it may be that from them will come the beginnings of the healing process which
Europe will need. Much is being and will be said of the political reconstruction which is needed
to restore and secure the civilized order. But the commonwealth of thought will revive of itself
from the day when peace is concluded. German physiology will not be less learned, German scientists
will not be less expert, German chemists will not be less pre-eminent because their military
lords have plunged Europe into a disastrous war. We shall need their services, shall watch
their experiments, read their records, and utilize their brains as before. Perhaps it may be
some years before the international congresses can be resumed, but the internationalism of
learning will revive of itself, against our wills if not by and with our wills, and in the
world of science, and in this world alone, the event of war will make no difference. Conqueror
and conquered will work at the same task and meet as equals. The scientific demonstration knows
no more of the nationality of its originator than of his caste or colour, age or sex. In this
one real democracy the idea, the hypothesis, the proof, whatever it may be, stands or falls
on its own merits with no questions asked as to its ancestors or country of origin. In the
growth of this commonwealth war is but a momentary check. Its destiny is to become wider in
extent, closer in its interconnexions, and not less rich in the diversities of its national
centres. Whether it is also destined to grow into a political unity the future must decide.
At least we can say that for any such unity it provides the only sure and solid foundation.

BOOKS FOR REFERENCE

Merz, History of European Thought in the 19th Century. W. Blackwood.

Marvin, The Living Past. Clarendon Press.

VIII

THE UNITY OF WESTERN EDUCATION

I have been asked to address you on the Unity of Education in Western Europe. The task is not
an easy one, for what do we mean by unity? It would be easy for me to spend my time in talking
on the technical aspect of the subject; I could deal with curriculum and organization, with
school buildings and class-rooms, black-boards, and all the material of schoolmastering, and
could show you how great is the similarity in these matters in all civilized countries. I doubt,
however, whether this would interest you; I doubt whether this is the unity of which you are
in search. You would tell me that you asked for unity and I had given you uniformity. Uniformity
you can have anywhere; in modern life all is standardized and stereotyped; you have it in the
great hotel and the Atlantic liner--there you have men of all nations, they do the same thing
at the same time, they eat the same food and wear the same clothes; you find it in the factory
and on the battle-field. Go to a textile factory, whether in Oldham or in Chemnitz, or in Bombay,
the processes are the same and the product is the same, except as there may be more or less
adulteration.

And so in education, if you care to do so, you can find the mechanical uniformity of modern
civilization. A new form of school-desk makes the round of the world as quickly as a new chemical
process or a new battleship. The pictures on the walls of the rooms may be the reproduction
of some modern German work, and the atlases you use may be second-rate copies of the products
of Gotha or Leipzig; you can have, too, uniformity in time-table and curriculum; but, after
all, this uniformity may be merely superficial. Go along the streets of an old town and you
may see the regular façade of a modern street, but behind this you will find all the variety
of the mediaeval buildings which it encloses--the façade is mere paint and stucco.

Uniformity is not necessarily unity, and unity is not inconsistent with variety. That which
I presume we are searching for is a more fundamental, spiritual, and intellectual unity--internal
not external; not a painted and stucco resemblance, but a unity of origin and of life.

Let us see what we can learn from history.

The history of European education is centred round two institutions, the School and the University.
Both have their origin in the remote past, and both have maintained themselves with singular
fidelity to their original type.

The School goes back to the very origin of our civilization; if we are to understand its nature,
we must transfer ourselves in thought to those early days when the first missionaries planted
in the Somerset valleys and on the stern Northumberland coast the Cross of Christ. They came
to a people still on the verge of barbarism, with a language still unformed by literature,
with a religion that gave no clue to the mysteries of life by which they were oppressed. They
came to these men full of the enthusiasm of the Gospel--coming not only as teachers of religion,
but as the apostles of a higher civilization, for they had behind them the awful name of Rome.

Wherever they came, among their first duties was to found schools in which to train men who
would succeed them; we must always remember that the education which they gave had one supreme
object--it was to bring up the boys of the rude and barbarous communities in which they found
themselves, to become teachers and servants of the Church. The substance of the teaching was
always the same, whether in Spain, in Gaul, in Ireland or in Britain; it was the Bible, the
services of the Church, and the writings of the Fathers. It was by the school that the boys
were initiated into the common system of Western Christendom, and were made citizens of the
greater world the centre of which was in Rome.

But if the substance and the object was identical throughout Europe, so always was the form
in which the teaching was given; at a time when all learning and all religion came from Rome,
the foundation of knowledge was the Latin tongue. In these early days was established the tradition
that still subsists; the gateway to learning and to culture lay by the narrow road of the Latin
grammar. The schoolboy who still tells out his longs and shorts can compare them with the ruder
efforts of his Saxon forefathers thirteen centuries ago. Never have authors attained a fame
and a circulation equal to that of the great grammarians who, during the decline of the Empire,
codified the rules of Latin speech; generation after generation passed, and down almost to
our own days every schoolboy began his career on the lines laid down in the works of Donatus
and Priscian.

We must, however, guard ourselves against a mistake into which it would be easy to fall. It
is true that in the early mediaeval days education was based on the study of the Latin language;
and it was only through literature that the language could be learnt. The study of classical
literature as we understand it was, however, far removed from the ideals of this time. The
most authoritative teachers never neglected to warn their pupils against the moral dangers
which arose from the study of heathen writers; Ovid and Cicero were only admitted under protest,
and they were merely the stepping-stone to the study of Augustine and Prudentius.

On this common basis--the Bible, the Church, and the Latin language--was then established the
education of Western Europe, and the form it then assumed it retained for over a thousand years,
almost without change. By this a common cast was given to the intellect, and the nations were
disciplined by common spiritual teaching. It was extraordinarily effective. It kept down, and
in many countries almost destroyed, the vigorous and aspiring local and national life which,
in every country, was striving after self-expression. In our own country this effect was most
conspicuous. The English, illiterate though they might be, were not without the promise of
a great future. In the remains of the Saxon poems we can see the beginnings of what under happier
circumstances might have grown into a great national literature. Its origins were deep seated
in the life of the people. It proved itself quickly able to absorb the new teaching of the
Gospel, and, as the Christian Epics show, here was the basis on which might have been built
a national interpretation of Christianity. All that was required was the adoption of English
as the language of the Church and the School. The beginning was made when Alfred, during the
few years which he secured from the Danish inroads, began his great work of founding an English
literature in which the teaching of the Church and the works of antiquity were included. The
attempt was ruined for the time by the renewal of the Danish inroads, permanently by the Norman
Conquest. For William brought with him not only his French knights, but also Italian priests.
Once more, under the influence of Lanfranc and his successors, the Church and the School were
brought under the full control of the revived power of Rome, and all prospect of a spontaneous
and indigenous national intellectual life was destroyed. Unity was re-established, and the
School was the instrument by which England was fully incorporated in the culture and religion
of the Western Church.

As it was with the School so also with the university. The second, as the first, was the creation
of the Church, and even more conspicuously it was the vehicle for fostering and maintaining
the control of common institutions and a common learning, and thereby of crushing out the rich
variety of local life which everywhere was springing up. In its very constitution the University
of Paris, the mother and model of all later universities (at least in northern Europe), showed
its international character; the students who flocked to it from all countries were organized
in 'nations' a system which, at least in name, still remains in many of the universities to
this day; the whole instruction was and remained in Latin, and the whole course of instruction
was a long apprenticeship to the study of theology. It was from the universities that emanated
the great system of philosophy in which a Frenchman as Abelard, an Italian as Thomas of Aquinas,
an Englishman as William of Ockham each took his part.

We may regard with admiration the great intellectual achievements of the Scholastic philosophy
which, for over two centuries, dominated the official education, but we must not forget that
its ascendancy implied the exclusion from all public recognition of the local and national
thought and literature which now, as before, was struggling into life. The Troubadours and
the Minnesänger, the Chanson de Roland and the Nibelungenlied, the Chronicles of Froissard,
Chaucer, and Piers Plowman, each of them so full of fresh vigorous local life, were not only
outside the official system of education, but in their essence opposed to it. This was clearly
seen as soon as the free and uncontrolled mind was directed to the highest subjects of thought.
National idiosyncrasies, as they found expression in the domain of philosophy and theology,
produced results different from the established teaching of the school. To the Church truth
was always one and the same. Truth was one, error was manifold; in unity was salvation, and
divergence was heresy. And so every attempt at national and local thought was not only suppressed
in education, but fell under the ban of discipline. In Languedoc the Albigenses ventured the
assertion of their independence; Huss in Bohemia, in England Wyclif. What happened? The Albigenses
were massacred, Huss was burnt, Wyclif was condemned, and his followers suffered under the
new law of heresy.

This system, which had originated as a part of a great spiritual movement, long outlived its
usefulness. It became an intolerable tyranny. Its effects were to be seen in the teaching of
the humblest grammar school, and every boy who began the study of the Latin grammar was being
initiated into the abstractions or the Scholastic logic. It became a dead and iron crust by
which the mind of man was confined, and it was the school and the university which were the
peculiar institutions by which this system was maintained. Unity of education there was, but
at what a price had it been won.

One thing had, however, been secured: the common Christian basis of our modern civilization
had been stamped upon the peoples; so long as Europe remains Europe this cannot be forgotten
or obliterated. No nation can repudiate its own past, and, whether they will or no, all Western
nations are irrevocably bound together by the ties of the home in which their childhood and
youth was passed.

At last the change came: it came in that double revolution which we call the Renaissance and
the Reformation. In considering them we must confine ourselves as closely as we can to their
effect on education.

The revival of learning was essentially an educational movement, it had from the beginning
to do primarily with the school. It had as its object a complete change both in the subject-matter
and in the spirit of education. Always it drew its inspiration from the literature of Greece,
and this meant the fullest freedom of the human intellect, freedom of speculation, freedom
of inquiry on the conditions of human life, and in particular it was a revolt from the ascetic
ideas of the mediaeval Church; it was the assertion of the dignity of the body and mind of
man. Now whereas in Italy, its original home, this took a warp definitely antagonistic to Christian
faith and Christian ethics, in Northern Europe the new classical learning was harmonized with
Christianity, and classical learning was applied to the interpretation of the Bible. It was
the synthesis of what mediaeval Europe had regarded as irreconcilable opponents. That was the
inspiration of the school reform, and this is the guiding principle of all higher education
for the next three centuries. It was a movement that originally was not local or national but
European, and in its first form was not in opposition to the maintenance of the ecclesiastical
unity of Western Europe. The figure in whom it reaches its clearest expression is that of Erasmus.
Standing at the transition between two epochs, he was the last of the great European scholars,
and belongs to the undivided Catholic Church as much as did Abelard or Anselm. The wandering
scholar of the Renaissance, without father, without mother, completely freed from ties of family
or country, at home equally in Deventer or Cambridge, in Basel or in Paris or in Rome, without
even a native language, for to him Latin was the only vernacular (he has, I believe, left no
word written in any other language), he saw the vision of a Europe still united in obedience
to the one Church, but a Europe in which the culture of the humanist would go side by side
with the common faith inherited from early days.

The hopes of Erasmus were not to be fulfilled. It is indeed true that he laid the foundation
on which the recognized and official scheme of education has continued almost to our own day;
the Latin schools of Germany and the Grammar Schools of England were each alike conducted on
the basis of the Church and the classics, but even before the foundations had been completed
the real unity was gone. The Renaissance was met by two forces, each stronger than itself,
and the common stream was broken into a number of smaller currents. These have since increased
in strength till the sense of the common origin has almost disappeared.

The common mediaeval system (and in this the spirit of the Renaissance was still mediaeval)
depended on the common Church, and especially in education, in the use of Latin as the universal
language of learning. During the sixteenth century both were overthrown. Luther was stronger
than Erasmus, and the new languages, Italian, French, Spanish, English, quickly began to encroach
on the claims of Latin to be the one language of the school.

The religious revolution need not detain us. It is sufficient to recall that in many parts
of Europe the divergence of creed tended to become if not identical with, at least closely
to follow the boundaries of states and nations. In every land the school was still strictly
under the control of the Church, acting now as the delegate of the temporal ruler, and in each
country a whole body of teaching and discipline was evolved, the result of which was a fundamental
difference in the attitude of mind. The English bishops, the German consistories, the Scotch
presbytery, set their seal on the schools, as much as did the Jesuits and Port Royal in France.
The Shorter Catechism, the English Prayer Book, the German hymns, each gave a distinct character
to the religions of the country, and this character was the basis of the teaching in the schools.

Religion, which had been the great unifier, became the chief engine of separation.

Equally important was the growth of national literature. This indeed goes back far beyond the
sixteenth century, but none the less it is from this time that the writers not only of imagination,
but also of learning, began to express themselves each in his own vernacular. Sir Thomas More,
it is true, wrote his Utopia in Latin, but it was in English that it had its great circulation.
Bacon used both languages, but it is on English editions of his works that his fame chiefly
rests. In particular we find that works on religion and theology are now produced not only
in Latin, but one hundred years before Hooker would have discoursed on 'ecclesiastical polity'
in the learned language, and Pascal would never have thought of using French for discussing
the philosophy of the Jesuits.

The influence of these changes upon the school is remarkable. Strictly speaking, for many generations
they seemed to have little immediate effect upon it. In every country in Europe Latin remained
both the subject and the vehicle of higher education, but it is just for this reason that we
find that, during the seventeenth century and the greater part of the eighteenth, the schools
are more and more falling out of touch with the intellectual life of the times. They continued
in the old way; for them Shakespeare and Milton, Montaigne and Molière, Cervantes and Tasso,
seemed to have written in vain. They maintained the form of an older period, but they had lost
the spirit by which it had been inspired. Their learning remained purely classical; but even
though the new national literature was long in winning for itself a definite place in the recognized
school system, the growth of this literature and the evolution of national consciousness of
which it was a part could not in fact take place without altering the whole spirit of the teaching.
If we are to understand how this was we must keep in mind one of the chief characteristics
of what is called a classical education.

The study of the classics means the study of the whole life of the two great nations of antiquity
as preserved in the extant literature. Now this does not contain a definite and formulated
doctrine, it does not even, as might be said of the Middle Ages, mean one attitude towards
the world; it opens to the student a field of extraordinary wealth and variety, and from this
each will take that which he is able to appropriate. To one it may be the mysticism of the
Cambridge Platonists, to another the frank and pagan joy in life of Anacreon and Horace. Rousseau
and Grote will each in his own way appropriate the lesson of Liberty, while others will turn
to the story of the militant and dominant aristocracy of Rome. Goethe and Keats, Milton and
Gibbon, Berkeley and Schopenhauer, will each draw their inspiration from the classics, but
the result will not be to make them resemble one another, it will be to give vigour, decision,
form, resolution, and dignity to the qualities of each.

And as it is with individuals, so it is with nations. The schools of all nations maintained
their classical curriculum; boys still began, and often ended, their schooling with the Latin
grammar, but this did not mean, as it had meant in the earlier days, that the influence was
the same. There was indeed little in common between what we may venture to call the pedantry
of Germany and the superficial elegancy of the Jesuit schools. And so the classical basis did
not prevent the school assuming a national complexion. Let me give one illustration of the
manner in which the classical teaching could take a markedly national spirit. Perhaps the most
effective classical teaching that we find in the eighteenth century is that at Eton, and it
was on it that was founded the great school of oratory and statesmanship. It was on Cicero
and Homer and Demosthenes that Pitt and Fox and Canning and Gladstone (for the tradition continued
to his day) formed their minds and their style, but they emerged from their training above
all Englishmen, but Englishmen who had learnt how to give to their own national feelings a
dignity of expression and nobility of form equal to that of the exemplars whom they had studied.

Now just as the finest expression of the English national spirit is found in those whose school
training had been based on the classics, just as the Girondists based their revolutionary doctrines
on Hellenic models, so almost at the same time the great political awakening of Germany and
Prussia was inspired by what has been called the second Renaissance; and yet how profound is
the divergence between Wellesley and Pitt, Humboldt and Stein, St. Just, Demousin, and Vergniaud;
all were children of the common classical tradition, but how different is the use to which
they put it. During the centuries that passed between the Renaissance and the Revolution, the
education of the different countries had then in fact been drifting far apart. What has been
done during the nineteenth century has been openly to carry into effect changes which had long
been overdue and were already to a large extent operative.

It was inevitable that the new literature and thought would eventually find its way into the
schools and universities. Before this change had been accomplished, a fresh and even stronger
influence asserted itself. Democracy had come, and a democracy which based the state on the
principle of nationality. It seized on the school as the means to hold the minds of men in
fief, just as had the mediaeval Church, and in doing so enforced and perpetuated the national
differences.

In the eighteenth century rulers troubled themselves little about matters apparently of such
minor importance as the languages in which their subjects conversed and read. Even the French
did not try to touch the German-speaking inhabitants of Alsace, and Copenhagen could become
a centre of German letters, while French maintained itself at the Court of Berlin. All this
was changed by the Revolution, and Napoleon was the first deliberately to convert the whole
fabric of French schools and the university into an instrument for the organized propaganda
of the cult of the Empire. Since then there is scarcely a government (always except that of
England, which alone has been strong enough to rest on the native and undisciplined political
sense of the people) which has not followed in his path. In particular when the state is founded
on the nation the school is used to develop in the children the full consciousness of nationality.
That institution that was for so long the home of European unity has become the most useful
agent for the perpetuation and exaggeration of national differences. It is in the school that
the immigrant to the United States is taught to reverence the institutions of his new fatherland,
and from generation to generation the school labours to keep alive the memory of the half-forgotten
struggle of the new republic and the British monarchy. In France each successive government
has used the school to force on the nation its interpretation of the national history and ideals.
And the victories of Prussian armies were cemented and confirmed by the official exposition
of the Prussian state and the cult of the Hohenzollern. To the school is transferred the conflict
between the doctrines of authority and the revolution, of the secular state and of the Kingdom
by the Grace of God. Every nation rightly struggling to be free has seen in the school the
instrument for securing the allegiance of the young, and the school has become the centre of
political struggle. In Trieste and in Poland, in Alsace and in Macedonia, we find kings and
politicians contending for the minds and souls of children, and it is in the school, the college,
and the university that has been prepared the conflict that is now devastating Europe.

What has been done in the nineteenth century has really been only to carry into effect the
change which was long overdue and was implicit in earlier years. The national culture and national
authors have at length forced their way into the schools, and the result has been that institutions
which originally in reality, and for so long in appearance, were the vehicles for the expression
of the common European civilization, have been almost entirely won over to the cause of the
national expression.

This is indeed inevitable. Education, as we have seen, can only be effective when it is the
vehicle for strong beliefs, and is informed by the conscious expression of an attitude towards
the world. Now, in modern days, the consciousness of a common European spirit has, in fact,
almost disappeared. In its place we find the intense consciousness of the nation. Even religion
has become national, and God has once again become a tribal deity. The new consciousness of
the common interests of what is called Labour have no recognition in the approved teaching.
If the work of the school was not to be merely the dead instruction in useless knowledge, if
the work was to be directed towards informing the minds of the pupils with ideals and beliefs,
it was only in the idealization of the national thought that this could be attained.

Is the older union of thought to be permanently lost? If not, you must find it again in some
higher synthesis. There are many who would do so in the pursuit of mathematics and the natural
sciences; in them, at least, no divisions of country can be found. The student in his chemical
laboratory, the doctor in his hospital, the mathematician in his study, finds his colleagues
in every country in the civilized world, and it matters not to him whether the next step in
penetrating the secrets of nature have been made in Vienna, or in Paris, or Amsterdam, or Bologna.

There are many who believe that on this basis will be established the Union of Civilization.
If we look, however, more critically, we may find reason to doubt whether this optimistic view
is justified. I do not share this hope and this belief, I do not look forward to a spiritual
and intellectual unity of the nations established on the basis of scientific education. It
is, indeed, impossible to over-estimate not only the practical but also the intellectual influence
of what we may call the scientific spirit. It is indeed true that those who are accustomed
to the careful and systematic investigation of causes, who have been trained from their earliest
years to recognize in the pomp and pageantry of the external world--and even to some extent
in the working of the human mind and the structure of human society--the orderly sequence of
natural law, will have a type and character of mind essentially different from those who have
not passed through this discipline. The civilization (I scarcely dare to use the word culture)
of those nations who have this in common will have a unity of their own, and will differ fundamentally
from their own past and from that of other races.

On the other hand there are two considerations that I should like to put before you, as leading
to a less important position, the one arising from the practical nature of science, the other
connected with its essential intellectual origin.

It is a characteristic of all work in physical science that however it may originate in the
pure desire for truth, it is very quickly available for practical use, personal comfort, the
acquisition of wealth, and national efficiency. The physicist who calculates the stresses and
strains of an aeroplane finds that in teaching man how to control nature he is also providing
the means for his struggle, whether in peace or war, in commerce or on the battle-field. We
soon find that the progress of technical skill is curiously inoperative in its effect on human
thought and feeling. Men remain the same whether they ride in a coach, or a train, or a motor-car;
it matters little whether they use bows and arrows, or rifles, or hand-grenades, or liquid fire.

Now in education it is the technical side of scientific progress which almost inevitably becomes
most prominent, and the greater the advance in knowledge the more will this be true. The wider
the domain of knowledge the greater is the number of those who will be chiefly occupied with
the use of the processes and materials that have been discovered and the smaller is the proportion
of those who will have reached the border of the known, and will begin the work of exploration
into the unknown. That is, the greater will be the number of those who are the servants and
not the masters of science. A unity of a certain kind we shall have, the unity of those who
have learned to pilot an aeroplane, to apply X-rays, to extract the phosphate from iron, or
to test cattle for tubercle. All this may produce a uniformity in the machinery of life, it
passes by untouched the motives of action, the beliefs, affections, and interests. How many
illustrations of this do we see around us! What more glorious illustration of the power of
the human intellect can be found than the later developments of electricity, but scarcely had
the discoveries been made when we find them seized upon by the man of affairs, and wireless
telegraphy becomes the subject of speculation on the Stock Exchange, and a chief instrument
of war. That which the chemist finds in his laboratory is, within a few years, sometimes even
a few months, found again in the factory, and perhaps on the field of battle.

Do not let it be supposed that I would underrate the possibility of a deeper unity, but if
we would find it we must carry our analysis further back. The progress of science is in truth
not a cause but a result, not an ultimate fact but the symptom of a state of mind. It springs
from that which was brought into Europe consciously at the Renaissance and which we may call
the spirit of Greece. It is that to which we owe not only the investigation and subjection
of nature, but equally with it all progress in every department of thought, the analysis of
society, whether political or economic, the investigations of the working of human reason,
the probing of human passions, and their record in art and literature.

What is this spirit? Is it not the confidence in the spirit of man, the spirit which in intellectual
matters bends to no authority, and recognizes no limit to its enterprise, which probes all
things, tests all things, and follows fearlessly where the argument leads it? This is what
I mean by the spirit of Greece, it is that which Sophocles has immortalized. Of all this, what
we call science is but a part, perhaps at present the most striking and important part, but
still a part only; to look to it as the key of our civilization and the sole basis of our education
would be to set up a partial and, therefore, a false ideal. An ideal, moreover, which, if pursued
to its logical conclusion, would become the basis for the most appalling tyranny, by which
the free spirit of investigation, to which we owe all our scientific progress, would be buried
in the structure that itself had reared. For what is the end to which it must lead? Is it not
a society which is held together by technical skill, a society of organized efficiency, where
each individual holds his place, not as a living spirit, but as a slave of the great machine,
tied throughout his life to the perfect performance of his limited and specialized task? I
can imagine such a society; it is the ideal which some modern German writers have definitely
put before us. It may be that this will be the Europe of the future, a Europe with a common
government and a universal system of education by which each child will be trained to take
his allotted part in an organized slavery. I hope I shall not live to see it.

None the less, a unity there is, but it is a deeper unity than this. It is the unity inherited
from the past. Here we may find, not indeed a superficial uniformity, but a real unity of life
and spirit. No civilization can repudiate its own origin, and whatever the future may have
in store the childhood of Europe was nourished on the Bible and Christianity, and in the more
mature years there was added the impulse to the boldest use of the human intellect that came
from Greece. These two elements give us that which is the peculiar characteristic of Western
Europe, and as we are told that the growth of each individual repeats the evolution of the
race, so the education of each individual repeats in childhood and boyhood the education of
the nation. It is from these two elements that the whole of modern culture springs, and it
is from them that again and again they regain their strength.

And if we recollect this we need not be much disturbed by our apparent differences and misunderstandings.
After all, they are the necessary result of freedom, and what do the Bible and Greece mean
but moral and intellectual freedom? We want no formal and artificial unity: to us change, progress,
conflict and division are the breath of our life. Just as the cluster of little towns in the
Aegean islands and valleys prized before all things their political and intellectual independence,
so is it with these small countries nestling on the shores of the Atlantic. Politically they
have always refused to acquiesce in the establishment of any common authority over them, whether
it comes from outside or even from among themselves, and so also they always repudiate the
ascendancy of any single or partial intellectual doctrine. Each party and each nation adds
its own contribution; all have a common origin, and all spring from the same root. Since the
bonds have been relaxed and the dominion of the Universal Church overthrown, we see nothing
from the rivalry of political systems and passing schemes of thought; they chase each other
like the storms which arise from the Atlantic and pass in quick succession over our shores.
It is this change and succession which is to us the breath of our life: we know nothing of
the steady static weather of the great continents, where rain and drought have each their measured
and settled space: and we know nothing, and will know nothing, of the formal and authoritative
rule combining all Europe into one realm, whether political or intellectual. For we know that
unity and permanence does not belong to this life, and our nearest approach to truth is to
be found not in a settled system but in the thousandfold interactions of half-truths and partial
systems.

A unity there is, but it is the unity of the countless and varied flowers that carpet the meadows
in spring, the unity of the common spirit of life which animates them all.

BOOKS FOR REFERENCE

Leach, The Schools of Medieval England. Methuen.

Mullinger, J. Bass, The Schools of Charles the Great.

Paulsen, Geschichte des gelehrten Unterrichts.

Rashdall, Universities in the Middle Ages. Clarendon Press.

Foster Watson, Grammar Schools. Cambridge University Press

Woodward, Erasmus. Cambridge University Press.

IX

COMMERCE AND FINANCE AS INTERNATIONAL FORCES

Commerce and finance are departments of life in which mankind approaches nearer to unity than
in any other. They are practical expressions of the instinct of self-preservation which is
the first law of nature. They spring straight from the acquisitiveness which is a universal
characteristic of human nature and indeed of animal and vegetable nature. Every living thing
wants to acquire food. Adam Smith indeed restricts the trading instinct to mankind. Probably
if one rummaged the literature of dog stories one would find plenty of examples of commerce
between dogs, and when they perform tricks to get food, we detect the germ of the exchange
of a service for a commodity.

When a bee takes honey from a flower and leaves in exchange the pollen from a flower of an
opposite sex, it may be said to be at once a merchant, a carrier, and a matrimonial agent,
and the brilliant colours with which flowers attract these merchants have been compared to
the advertising posters of the human trader. But however the case may be in the animal and
vegetable world, there can be no question that the trading instinct appears at a very early
stage of human development. In boys the instinct to trade or swop articles appears long before
they feel any inclination to fall in love or to give much serious thought to religion. The
classical example is given by Mark Twain, who relates how Tom Sawyer exchanged one of his own
teeth, which had been pulled out that morning, for a tick in the possession of Huckleberry
Finn, and then 'the two boys separated, each feeling wealthier than before'. In fact, of course,
they both were wealthier than before, because each had got something that he wanted more than
the article with which he had parted; and this pleasant result sums up the whole genesis and
basis of commerce.

But though commerce is thus merely an expression of an instinct which is
primitive and universal, it does not follow that it is its only or even
its earliest expression. Perhaps its earliest and most natural
expression was through robbery, with or without violence. A primitive
savage who saw something that he wanted would probably, if strong
enough, hit its owner on the head and take it, and this short and simple
method of acquisition still occasionally reappears in the realms of the
most highly civilized diplomacy. Nevertheless, at a very early stage its
limitations became obvious, and quite at the dawn of recorded history we
find commercial transactions referred to as an established branch of
human intercourse. The Old Testament story has not gone far before it
tells us of buying and selling. In the twenty-third chapter of Genesis
we find a very interesting bargain recorded between Abraham and Ephron. And Abraham
     stood up and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the
     children of Heth. And Abraham bowed down himself before the people
     of the land. It appears from the sequel that
this is merely an example of Oriental politeness. At any rate, the end
of the bargain was that Abraham paid the money, four hundred shekels of
silver, which is described as 'current money with the merchant', thus
apparently showing that this system of payment in metals was already a
regular feature of commercial transactions. Coined currency had not yet
been developed, for we may note that Abraham weighed the silver.

When we come to the days of Solomon we find something like a developed international trade.
The fifth chapter of the first book of Kings describes how Solomon, on taking the throne of
his father, sent to Hiram, king of Tyre, and stated his purpose to build a house unto the name
of the Lord his God, asking Hiram to send his servants to hew cedar trees out of Lebanon, and
saying that he would give hire for Hiram's servants according to all that he should appoint.
And he said, What cities are these which thou hast given me, my brother? And he called them
the land of Cabul [explained in the margin as meaning "displeasing" or "dirty"] unto this day.
And Hiram sent to the king sixscore talents of gold.'[25]

Apart from this transaction between the two kings, Solomon appears to have developed a very
considerable foreign trade, presumably exporting wheat and oil and other agricultural products.
His imports appear to have been various. And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen
yarn: the king's merchants received the linen yarn at a price.'

The whole question of Solomon's balance of trade is a very interesting one, and deserves the
attention of some Hebrew scholar who may be able to throw light upon it. In these days it is
rather difficult to see how a purely agricultural country could have found the means of paying
for all these articles of pure luxury which Solomon imported so freely. From this it appears
that Solomon was able to exchange his wisdom for a very considerable part of the imports which
came into his country, and so perhaps we may take it that Solomon's wisdom is the earliest
recorded example of what is now known as an invisible export. A modern equivalent would be
the articles which English writers contribute to American newspapers and are paid for, ultimately,
by the shipment to England of American wheat and cotton. It is also interesting to note in
these days, when personal economy and simplicity of life are so freely preached, that Solomon's
very luxurious imports were followed by evil consequences, imports of an enormous number of
strange women, and a consequent turning away of his heart after false gods.

When we come to secular history, the very first chapter of the first book of the first history
ever written deals with a question of commerce. And then he plunges straight into his story,
as follows: 'According to the Persians best informed in history, the Phoenicians began the
quarrel. This people, who had formerly dwelt on the shores of the Erythræan Sea, having migrated
to the Mediterranean and settled in the parts which they now inhabit, began at once, they say,
to adventure on long voyages, freighting their vessels with the wares of Egypt and Assyria.
They landed at many places on the coast, and among the rest at Argos, which was then pre-eminent
above all the states included now under the common name of Hellas. Here they exposed their
merchandise, and traded with the natives for five or six days; at the end of which time, when
almost everything was sold, there came down to the beach a number of women, and among them
the daughter of the king, who was, they say, agreeing in this with the Greeks, Io, the child
of Inachus. The women were standing by the stern of the ship intent upon their purchases, when
the Phoenicians, with a general shout, rushed upon them. The greater part made their escape,
but some were seized and carried off. Io herself was among the captives. The Phoenicians put
the women on board their vessel, and set sail for Egypt. Thus did Io pass into Egypt, according
to the Persian story, which differs widely from the Phoenician: and thus commenced, according
to their authors, the series of outrages.'[26]

Commerce is thus a striking example of the unity of mankind, being a practically universal
form of human activity which arises as soon as man verges from the earliest stages of barbarism.
In the case of individuals it is easy to see how this desire to exchange commodities between
one individual and another meant so great an increase in human efficiency that it had only
to be thought of to be universally adopted. The primitive savage, doing everything for himself,
building his own hut, killing or finding his own food, and making his own clothes, such as
they were, was an extremely versatile and self-sufficing person. At the same time the comforts
that he enjoyed were probably not very satisfactory. His hut was almost certain to be draughty
and to let in rain through the roof; his hunting and finding of food must have very often left
him with his larder empty, and the state of his wardrobe was probably simple rather than satisfying.
It would inevitably happen that certain members of the tribe would show greater efficiency
than others in doing a certain one of these various businesses which are essential even to
the simplest form of human life. Thus the tendency to specialization begins to show itself.
The skilful hut-builder builds huts not only for himself but for other members of the tribe;
he acquires further skill by constant practice and the huts are more quickly built and better
when finished. The other tribesmen, in effect, pay him by supplying him with a certain amount
of food and clothes. The tendency for specialization would make very rapid progress, and it
is easy to see how at a very early date and in the most primitive communities there would be
bowyers, arrow-makers, and leather-dressers, and how various kinds of artificers would arise,
supplying the wants of the community in some special line, and receiving from the community
all the commodities which they required apart from those which they produced themselves. The
individuals of the community thus become mutually dependent, and live by one another's production.
Hence comes unity, and with it a fresh cause of disunion, owing to the likelihood of quarrelling
over the exchanges effected.

As progress developed and the communities at a greater distance became acquainted with one
another's wants and the various kinds of goods that certain districts supplied, this tendency
to specialization and consequent exchange of goods would grow in an ever-widening circle. Instead
of the tribe being a commercial unity, the zone in which the interchange of goods went on would
widen as far as the geographical and other boundaries allowed it. In the same country one district
would be found to be specially well adapted for agriculture, and another for pasture; another,
being well supplied with metals, would naturally provide a race of smiths and producers of
rough tools for industry, and the exchange of commodities between districts with these various
capacities would mean that the specialization of production would go steadily further, and
that a whole town or village would be found in which the great majority of the inhabitants
were at work upon one particular form of industry, relying for the other kinds of commodities
that they required upon the activity of a similar community living in the next valley or on
the other side of the river. This widening-out process would naturally extend itself over the
borders of different countries. Obstacles to this process would be found in the differences
of language and probably in the difficulties of transport. On the other hand, it would be greatly
stimulated by the different ideas of value that prevailed in different communities. Value depends
upon the extent to which anybody wants a thing, also on what he thinks it is worth, that is
to say, the number of commodities in his possession with which he is prepared to part in order
to secure it. Obviously commodities coming in from foreign countries, and being unknown or
rare in the country in which they are offered, if they are otherwise at all attractive, possess
a certain amount of what is called scarcity value, which makes them easily saleable by adventurous
merchants who arrive with the cargo.

The stories of fortunes made by merchants who travelled among simple native tribes with cargoes
of glass beads and were able to exchange these gaudy baubles for gold or rubber or other commodities
which are valuable in civilized countries, have often been told, and opportunities for trading
of this kind must have been very much more frequent when communication was comparatively difficult.
Value to a great extent being determined by local convention and local habit, the profits of
the trader were likely to be considerably increased the further he got from his home market.
If he took away with him plenty of things which were in abundant supply at home and consequently
cheap, he would almost certainly be able to bring back a large number of things which were
plentiful in a far-away community, and consequently cheap for him to acquire, and scarce in
his own district and consequently sure of a good market. This difference of standard of value
in different countries was a great stimulus to foreign trade, also a great help to bringing
mankind together, though it sometimes ended in disillusionment. It has been asserted that even
within the memory of man an English merchant traded with a primitive community in which gold
and silver were exchangeable weight for weight. For some years he did a very pleasant and profitable
trade by taking a cargo of silver and bringing back with him the same weight in gold, the value
of which in England happened to be sixteen times as great, or more. Unfortunately, when he
made his last voyage he was met at the mouth of the river by a friendly native, who informed
him that the community was waiting for him with tomahawks, and he hastily put to sea again.
For the rest of his life he cherished a grievance against this curious people with which he
had dealt, according to his own view, on perfectly equitable terms, having sold them a commodity
at a price to which they were accustomed, and which they regarded as quite correct, with the
result that they proposed to murder him because they found that the price was not in accordance
with that current in other parts of the world.

By this business of exchange of commodities between one community and another, the process
of specialization or division of labour which has already been referred to as its basis has
been developed to extraordinary lengths. Its effect has been to increase enormously the wealth
available, while at the same time the concentration of the individual has narrowed down his
work so that he now no longer specializes on making one commodity, but on making a part of
a fraction of a commodity.

Adam Smith's chapters on division of labour are so well known that there is no need to point
out the very great economic benefits that arise from it. Clearly, any man who spends all his
working time upon one particular process of productive activity acquires thereby a skill and
rapidity in carrying out his part of the operation which would be impossible to any worker
who has to carry the manufacture of an article from the beginning to its end. Just as we saw,
when the primitive savage left off doing everything for himself and took to building huts for
the rest of the community, that the huts became much more water-tight and comfortable, so the
process goes still further, and building becomes very much more rapid and very much more cheap
and efficient when a large number of specialists are set to work on the various very different
processes required for the construction of a house. The consequence is that the production
of goods is very greatly cheapened and made much more rapid, but at the same time the worker
tends to become an artisan instead of a craftsman, and his work is likely to be much more monotonous
and much more trying. Instead of seeing his product grow under his hand from its beginning
to its end, with constant changes in the nature of its call on his energy and care, he is employed
during the whole of his working time on some mechanical process, with the result that he himself
becomes something very like a machine. What he has gained in the power to make and acquire
commodities cheaply and quickly is offset to a certain extent by the less interesting and varied
nature of his work.

It also follows that as the worker becomes a specialist he becomes dependent upon other members
of the community for the supply to him of a large number of things which he requires for his
own existence. If he spends his life in making one commodity or in making part of one commodity,
it is clear that his requirements of all the things that are necessary for life apart from
what he makes himself can only be satisfied by the willingness of the community to take the
commodity that he makes in payment for those which it produces and of which he is in need.
When he works for himself, he only makes things that he knows himself to need; when he works
to sell to others, he has to speculate on the hope that the others will want what he makes.

Commerce thus not only shows the unity of mankind by being a universal feature of his existence,
but increases that unity by making each individual dependent upon the exertions of his fellows,
and on their willingness to take from him stuff which he is turning out; but if commerce thus
promotes unity, it also tends to create a certain amount of friction and disagreement between
one man and another when differences of opinion arise concerning the value of the product which
each man is making, that is to say, concerning the amount of goods which the rest of the community
is prepared to give him in exchange.

This consideration is also very strongly evident with regard to international trade. Here the
division of labour is assisted by the difference in the products of different countries. There
can be no doubt that the exchange of commodities between one nation and another tends to bring
them together and to promote unity and harmony of interests. At the same time it is also likely
to be fruitful in quarrels and bickering. We saw that Hiram was very much dissatisfied with
the cities in Galilee which Solomon presented to him in the course of their semi-commercial
transactions. He appears to have retaliated by making Solomon a very handsome present in gold;
but Hiram seems to have been a very exceptional person, and it is probable that most traders
who are dissatisfied with the consideration received would not have been so generous in expressing
themselves.

International commerce has also been a fruitful cause of disunion rather than unity when various
nations have quarrelled with one another concerning the right to trade with a third people.
If one nation is trading with another greatly to its profit, it feels that it has a grievance
when it finds that a neighbouring nation is sending cargoes to the same destination and undercutting
it and taking the cream of the trade. After religion, it is probable that trade has produced
more bloodshed than any other form of human activity. At the same time there can be no doubt
that on the whole its influence has been strongly on the side of unity and that it has done
more to break down international barriers than any other influence that has operated in the
course of history. The trader, as such, believes entirely and whole-heartedly in the unity
of mankind. All that he wants to do is to buy his products as cheaply as he can and to sell
them at the best possible price. Whether he buys at home or abroad, or whether he sells at
home or abroad, is a matter of complete indifference to him except that, as has been shown,
owing to variations in value in different parts of the world, he is probably likely to be able
to make larger profits from foreign trade than in commerce at home. National preferences sometimes
induce him to encourage home industry by buying home products when foreign goods would have
paid him better, but in so far as this happens, he ceases to be a trader as such and becomes
a mixture of trader and patriot. As buyers and sellers, however, mankind is, on the whole,
singularly free from international prejudices. It was thought at one time that importation
of foreign goods into England would be considerably checked by insisting upon marks of origin,
that is to say, that imported goods should be stamped as such. This expectation, however, seems
to have been entirely disappointed, since most buyers were not concerned with the question
of the country whence the commodity that they bought came, and only considered whether it suited
their purses and was what they wanted. Sometimes there is actually a prejudice in favour of
foreign goods, and, curiously enough, this is found to be so even in countries in which a protective
policy has been very highly developed. It is, or was a few years ago, common to see in American
newspapers, flaming advertisements heralding sales of imported goods, which were definitely
stated to be such obviously because the sellers thought that they were likely to be able to
sell them better because they were stated to be so. It is also a proud boast of English manufacturers
that in many countries on the Continent it is common, or was until quite lately, for native
manufacturers to sell their goods more easily in their home markets by describing them as English.
Political and national prejudice seems to be overruled by the common human desire for something
new and strange, and consequently, in spite of all friction that has arisen from international
trade, and of the number of wars which have had their origin in commercial questions, there
is good reason for the assertion that on the whole commerce has been a mighty promoter of intercourse
among the nations and of the unity of mankind. If it had not been for commerce, the cheapening
and quickening of communication could never have been carried out. The trader goes first, and
after him the traveller and the tourist.

This claim can be made with perhaps even more certainty when we proceed
to the realm of finance. If commerce is international and unifying,
finance is perhaps even more so. Finance, of course, arises out of
commerce and is an essential part of its machinery. By finance we mean
the machinery of money--money-dealing and money-lending. Money becomes
necessary as soon as the exchange of commodities, which is the meaning
of trade, becomes fairly developed. At first, primitive peoples
exchanged their commodities one for another, but a difficulty arose when
out of a pair of possible traders one had something which the other
wanted but the other had not. For example, if the arrow-maker had arrows
to sell and wanted to buy fish, there obviously could be no bargain if
his friend who wanted to buy arrows had only got deerskins to give in
exchange. It was essential to the development of trade that some
commodity should be hit on which could always be taken in exchange and
so form a circulating medium. We have seen from the twenty-third chapter
of Genesis that a certain weight of silver had in Abraham's time begun
to assume this function. Economic text-books tell us that many other
commodities had the form and function of money before the metals came
into use. Until quite lately there were many places in which the use of
an agreed medium of exchange had not been adopted to facilitate the
purposes of commerce. At the Halles in Paris, as the prima donna remarks
     in her lively letter, ... this amount of live stock and
     vegetables might have brought four thousand francs [£160], which
     would have been good remuneration for five songs.

This is an example of the inconvenience which the invention of money overcame. In primitive
communities it took the form of cowry-shells or tobacco or gunpowder or any commodity which
was in universal request in the place. All the seller wanted to do was to be able to obtain
for his product a certain amount of stuff which he could rely on being able to exchange for
other things that he wanted. In the end the precious metals, with their strong appeal to human
vanity, and their utility for adorning temples and so propitiating divine favour, ousted all
other commodities which had been used for money; and they are now to a great extent ousted
by pieces of paper, which still, however, represent claims to so much gold.

The discovery of a circulating medium enormously facilitated the progress of commerce, and
it was not long before a class of people grew up who specialized in this particular form of
business and became financiers and moneylenders. Bankers and financiers were known in Rome
and Athens, and we know that some machinery existed by which the monetary claims of one country
on another could be settled by something that fulfilled the functions of the modern bill of
exchange. The actual provision of metallic currency has from the earliest times been almost
entirely under the control of the government which took into its own hands, as an essential
part of the police protection which it gives to the people, the coining of currency, stamping
the coin in such a way that anybody who took one might know that he was getting a certain weight
of a precious metal. But the money-dealing business very soon developed the machinery of credit
by which anybody who had an enterprise or a venture out of which he expected to make an attractive
profit could, if he had sufficient property to pledge, provide himself with the means to finance
it between the day that he started on his operations and the day when he brought home his profits:
and this business also became international, though not, perhaps, as rapidly as commerce had
overstepped the boundaries between one people and another.

In the Merchant of Venice we find Antonio trading with all the countries of the then known world,

    From Tripolis, from Mexico, and England,
    From Lisbon, Barbary, and India,

but we do not find that Shylock was lending money on at all the same international scale. When
communication was slow, difficult, and untrustworthy, money-lending at a distance was made
very risky, because it was impossible for the lender to keep the watchful eye on the borrower's
operations and credit that is required if he is to feel comfortable in his venture. For a Lombard
Street banker to lend money to a merchant in Cheapside payable at a year hence was, until comparatively
lately, a much safer enterprise than to lend it to a merchant in Paris, because the local borrower
was always under the lender's observation. If he were overtrading or living on too lavish a
scale it would at once be noticed and reported.

Nevertheless, international finance made steady progress through somewhat obscure beginnings.
We know that Philip II of Spain was heavily indebted to moneylenders all over the Continent,
and that by his famous repudiation he carried consternation throughout Europe.[28] Edward III
was also heavily indebted to Florentine bankers, and he also omitted to pay his debt; and it
is said that the descendants of the Florentine bankers still have a claim against the English
Crown in consequence[29]; but it was not until after the creation of stock exchanges and the
machinery of a public market in securities that international finance became a question of
general importance.

Here also the effect has been for unity combined with a good deal of disunion. Twenty years
ago it used to be said that feeling in the Western States of America was very strongly anti-English
because most of the Western farmers were indebted to English moneylenders, and on the whole
it may be said that the relations between the borrower and lender are not likely to be so friendly
and so likely to promote unity as those between buyer and seller. There is really no logical
reason why this should be so: the basis of the bargain between the two is exactly the same.
In commercial transactions one man sells to another because the other man wants something that
he has got more than he does. It is exactly the same with the borrower and lender of money.
A man borrows because he wants money and is prepared to pay a rate of interest for it. The
lender lends because he has money to lend and wants to earn interest on it. Nevertheless there
is something in this relationship which seems to produce discord. It is not many years since
the Australian newspapers used to talk of England as John Bull Cohen, implying that the English
money market made more than it ought to do by developing, with the help of its financial resources,
the production and commerce of the young countries of the world. Perhaps it is human to feel
a grudge against a creditor, because the money has to be paid back, whereas a commercial bargain
is done with. Nevertheless, after allowing for all the friction that money-lending seems to
produce, there can be no question that the establishment of the international market in securities
has enormously widened the world's output of commodities, and it has greatly promoted that
unity of interests which has brought mankind together more than anything else.

Englishmen are always supposed to be particularly insular. Nevertheless, any one who looks
at the Official List daily published by the London Stock Exchange and sees the enormous number
of Government and municipal loans from all parts of the world, the number of foreign railways,
and the number of foreign enterprises of all kinds which are dealt in on the London Stock Exchange,
cannot avoid the conclusion that this practice of investing money abroad, which has been followed
here to a greater extent than in any other country, must have very greatly widened the Englishman's
horizon and forced him to confess that at least from one point of view dwellers in foreign
countries have some right to exist. At any rate, in practice English investors not only have
shown that they do not recognize international barriers, but there have even been times when
foreign securities have actually been preferred to English. A few years ago it was reported
by stockbrokers that many of their clients would not invest money at home and insisted whenever
possible that it should be placed abroad. To such an extent has this process been carried on
that it is now calculated by statisticians that no less than four thousand millions of English
money have been placed outside England, about one-half of this having been lent to foreign
countries, and about one-half to our own colonies. Here again, as in commerce, there arises
a possibility of quarrelling, not only between the lender and borrower but also between rival
groups of lenders in different countries. When an economically backward country is being developed
with the assistance of capital from nations which are at a further stage of economic progress,
the moneylender is supposed to acquire a certain amount of political prestige and privilege
which makes other nations, which have an eye to increasing their influence in the borrowing
country, jealous concerning such operations. A curious example was presented not long ago by
China. China wanted to borrow, and probably the only countries which had any genuine surplus
of capital available for export were England and France. Nevertheless, owing to the political
side issues involved, Russia, Germany, and the United States also all insisted on taking part
in the business of lending money to China. China was compelled to borrow more money than it
wanted, so that all these so-called civilized Powers could share in the operation, and the
absurdity of the position was increased by the fact that some at least of the Powers which
lent the money would have had to borrow it somewhere before they could do so.

This freedom with which England has furnished financial resources to the rest of the world
is sometimes called in question as having had, or being likely to have, bad effects upon the
activity of production at home. It is quite clear that the progress of international commerce
and the division of labour among nations by which commodities of all kinds have been very greatly
cheapened could not have been carried out if England and other comparatively far developed
countries had not supplied the necessary capital for the development of the relatively backward
parts of the earth. If English money had not gone into building railways in America, Canada,
Argentina, Australia, and all over the world, and supplying capital to the farmers and others
who opened up these countries, food could not have been nearly as cheap as it is or as it was
before the war, and clothes and other necessaries of life would have been at a very different
price. In fact, it may be said that if England had not acted as she has, as the world's financier,
the development of the world's trade to anything like its present scale would have been altogether
impossible. If we could feel sure that the distribution of the world's production had been
as satisfactory as the wonderful increase in its output, there would be no question that all
classes in England had been very greatly benefited by its financial activities abroad. As it
is, it is sometimes argued that English capital going abroad stimulates production in other
countries and increases the demand for labour there, but that the demand for labour in England
and its reward might have been on a higher scale if English capital had been kept at home.
This is a question which is, happily perhaps, outside my province at present, but it is one
which demands serious attention. This much can be said, that the years in which English capital
has gone abroad with the greatest rapidity have also been those in which our export trade has
been most active, and it is obvious that this must be so, because when England exports capital
it does so in the form of lending money either to a foreign Government or to a foreign municipality,
or to some company, English or foreign, which is conducting some enterprise in a foreign country.

In whatever way the money is lent the result is that the country to which it is lent is given
so much buying power in England and consequently its demand for English goods is to that extent
stimulated. It does not follow, of course, that the whole amount of money that it borrows is
actually spent in England. It is possible that the Canadian railway which is raising money
in England may spend it by buying steel rails in Belgium, but in practical fact the net result
is that somebody or other abroad is given a claim on England which finally, by some roundabout
process, takes effect in a demand for English goods and services. At the same time, when one
does admit that international finance is essential to international commerce and that the specialization,
which is an essential product of commerce, is thereby quickened, we have to remember that the
objections, such as they are, which can be put forward against the division of labour among
individuals cannot be overlooked altogether when the division of labour is applied to nations.

Dr. Bowley, in his book on England's foreign trade, puts the matter dramatically as follows:--

     The limit to the indefinite division of labour is to be found in
     the social, intellectual, and moral objections to specialization. While
admitting their force, it is not necessary to admit that the
specialization process need go quite to that length. Even if England
became one vast factory, it need not necessarily follow that it must
work in semi-darkness, continual uproar, or at intense pressure, but it
is all to the good that a specialist of Dr. Bowley's eminence should
call our attention to certain things which have to be guarded against.
On the other hand, we may contend that if England became one vast
factory, it would only do so because it paid it so well to do so, that
that vast factory might be made more in accordance with William Morris's
ideal than the picture of Inferno drawn by Dr. Bowley. We might imagine
England one vast Garden City, dotted over with factories, each of which
might be as beautiful as a cathedral, embowered and surrounded by fruit
trees and gardens, in which a highly educated and technically trained
population would work for five or six hours a day, and spend the rest of
their time in intellectual leisure and healthy exercise and home life
under ideally happy conditions.

It is interesting to note that the result of the present war is likely, if anything, to check
the export of capital for a time, not only owing to the very obvious reason that for the present
all our available capital is going into the war and for some time to come will have to go into
expenses connected with the war, but also because this war has set a new precedent with regard
to the duty of belligerents in the matter of making payments to one another. In olden times,
when war was a gentlemanly business, trade and finance were very little interrupted by it.
At the time of the Crimean War the Russian Government punctually paid the interest due on Russian
loans to English holders and thereby established a prestige amongst English investors which
was cherished for several decades. Now that nations have taken to going to war with tooth and
nail, throwing their whole available population into the field and using every possible device,
military, commercial, and financial, to beat their enemies, any such pleasant decencies as
paying money due from one country to another in the shape of interest or otherwise have been
abandoned. When the war is over it is possible that investors will remember this fact to a
certain extent and will be more chary than they were before of investing their money abroad,
at any rate in any country with which there is the remotest possibility of our being involved
in war.

War has also shown the great inconvenience that arises when the mutual dependence of nations
one on another for certain products leaves them crippled because international exchange is
interrupted. International trade and finance, in their full and free development, have been
shown to depend on the assumption that peace is secure. Unless the present war should be so
ended as to secure peace for all time, it seems likely that all nations will aim at being able
to rely, at least for the essentials of life and of defence, on home production or on a supply
from countries with which war may be regarded as impossible. If this be so, then unity through
trade and finance will be less universal, but more close-knit in its narrower scope.

BOOKS FOR REFERENCE

A.L. Bowley, England's Foreign Trade. Swan Sonnenschein.

C.K. Hobson, The Export of Capital. Constable.

W.S. Jevons, Money and the Mechanism of Exchange. Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner & Co.

Smith's Wealth of Nations, chs. i-iv.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 24: Wealth of Nations, Bk. I, ch. ii.]

[Footnote 25: 1 Kings ix.]

[Footnote 26: Rawlinson's translation.]

[Footnote 27: Jevons, Money as Mechanism of Exchange, p. 1.]

[Footnote 28: Motley, United Netherlands, ch. xxxiii.]

[Footnote 29: Thorold Rogers, Economic Interpretation of History, ch. xx.]

[Footnote 30: England's Foreign Trade in the Nineteenth Century, by A.L. Bowley.]

X

INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL LEGISLATION

We have learned to look upon the doctrine of interdependence of classes within the nation as
a truth self-evident to all eyes unblinded by wilful prejudice or ignorance of that disabling
kind charitably defined by the Roman Catholic Church as invincible. To say that unemployment
in the mills of Lancashire or the shipyards of the Clyde not only affects the happiness and
well-being of cotton operatives and boiler-makers and the great businesses which are carried
on by their means, but depresses the national vitality and puts a drag on the national energy
throughout the kingdom--to assert that no people can be wholly strong and vigorous while any
corner of its territory or any layer in its social strata remains in the possession of a group
physically weak, mentally undeveloped, and morally below the standard of ethics which, as a
people, it has tacitly agreed to accept as necessary, seems to many of us in these days to
state truisms. Yet it is not so long ago that facts which we now presume to be familiar, at
least to every undergraduate, were the dangerous discovery of the few who, in an age when people
said 'Socialist' as Mr. Pecksniff said 'Pagan', had the temerity to point out, that in things
human and political as in mechanics, a chain was and could be no stronger than its weakest
link. Even now, in the reaction, often only half conscious, of the employing class against
any force which tends to raise the employed to a social plane less removed from that on which
they themselves move, in the genuine dislike of education, concealed under ceremonial phrases
in days of peace but breaking into fire and fury when the natural man is roused by a touch
of excitement, we can see how skin-deep in many cases is the general belief in the widely proclaimed
creed that economically as well as spiritually, we are all members one of another. And if the
truth of our interdependence as citizens has won acceptance slowly and grudgingly, because
the facts that prove it lie other-where than on the surface, it is easy to understand that
the interdependence which is international, resulting as it does from the meeting, and crossing,
and twining in the web of national life of innumerable fine threads drawn from the utmost corners
of the civilized world, has scarcely yet come within the consideration of the ordinary man
as an influence from which he cannot escape, and with which, therefore, he is bound to reckon.
That, doubtless, is why international movements in general arouse so little interest in the
mind of the average reader of newspapers. He does not regard them as practical. The persons
engaged in promoting them he defines as cranks, dividing them into two classes, of whom one
may be dismissed as harmlessly absurd, while the other ought probably to be suppressed as dangerous.

The events of the first week of August 1914, where the interdependence of countries is concerned,
might and did throw some light on the journalistic mirror into which civilized man looks morning
by morning, but it was light of the crudest kind. The result of the illumination, in numerous
instances, was only to make a great number of people reflect with astonishment on the number
of things which this country is in the habit of purchasing from abroad, comment with indignation
on her folly in not having made them all at home, and, when passion rose sufficiently high,
express a resolution that, however deeply they might need the enemy's products, they would
never buy any of them again. To do them justice, this was not the attitude of the men confronted
with the actual difficulty of inventing substitutes for raw materials of which the source had
suddenly dried up. Those who sat in factory offices ruefully contemplating models of goods
to the making of which Germany, Belgium, and Austria had hitherto sent some indispensable contribution,
did not, even while they set about inventing something that should replace this contribution,
belittle what they had lost. They knew, and said, that while they were confident of producing
a working substitute, they did not pretend to offer in every case the precise quality which
seemed to be the special gift of the German, or Belgian, or Austrian trader. Perhaps it was
not after all only sheer laziness on the part of the British manufacturer, and sheer lack of
patriotism on the part of British governments which induced our commercial leaders to concentrate
on one field of production and abandon another. To each nation, as to each man, his gift. Some
realization of this law may have come instinctively to practical workers engaged in practical
tasks.

If the organizers of production among us have not been forward in the past to promote international
action in the matter of labour legislation, this is not from any failure to realize the effect
of inequality of industrial conditions upon nations competing in the markets of the world.
This effect was naturally greatest in cases where the countries concerned were geographically
contiguous and engaged in direct rivalry with one another in respect of manufactures falling
under the same trade category. Here is the perfect case of competition, in which any circumstance
tending to lessen production on the one side is immediately counted as an advantage to the
other. But the pressure is felt even where the territory of the rival is situated at the other
side of the world, even where the article produced belongs to a different class of manufacture.
In normal times long distance transport is easy and long distance freight rates cheap, so that
the question of distance, although still to be reckoned with, is no longer a determining factor
in the sum of consideration. Again, the network of prices which controls the ultimate cost
of production of any finished article is so complex that it is difficult in many cases to rule
out this or that set of industrial conditions in one country as being without importance for
a given factory in another. The price of a pair of corsets sold retail in Paris may have been
subtly influenced by a strike of smelters of iron ore in Silesia; and your china tea-set may
be dearer to-morrow by reason of a sudden outbreak of foot and mouth disease among the herds
of the Argentine. Quite naturally, therefore, it has come about that manufacturers, in opposing
proposals to make existing labour legislation either more stringent in detail or wider-reaching
in scope, have put forward, as their principal objection, the plea that such reforms in favour
of the worker would place British industry at a disadvantage with that of countries where the
action of the manufacturer remained comparatively unfettered. The distrust, as well as the
dislike of long hours as a means of increasing production, together with the belief that healthy
and pleasant surroundings conduce to the development of the worker's powers as well as to the
satisfactory maintenance of his physical condition, has made remarkable progress among the
more intelligent of the employing class since the twentieth century began. But there is still,
in nearly every trade, a considerable mass of masters who rarely think and never experiment,
who turn a deaf ear to the representations of their managers and foremen when these, coming
into direct personal contact with the employed, take note of results due to over-strain which
are invisible to the head of the business in his office, and who continue to suppose, with
their fathers, that limitation of the working period necessarily restricts output and spells
commercial loss. Such men, hearing that their own manufacture is produced, let us say in Russia,
by men working twelve hours a day to their men's nine, and paid at a considerably lower rate
than that which obtains in their own works, would certainly not dream of drawing any other
conclusion than the, to them, obvious one that the result of this difference must be a lowered
cost of production. Inquiries which should prove, as did those of Sir Alfred Mond's firm when
confronted with such a case, that the cost of production per ton was actually higher under
the long hour and low wage system would never be instituted by them, and their results, when
made by others, leave them sceptical if not suspicious.

Recognizing this mental attitude in a large section of the business men of every country, and
bearing in mind that, in order to secure the efficient administration of labour laws, the legislator
must be able to carry with him at least the general consent of the majority of those employers
to whose trades they apply, it becomes clear that if we would remove all objection to complete
and adequate protective law for the workers we must first dispel the fear of the manufacturer
that such law would handicap him unfairly in the international market. And what way so apt
to this end as the bringing of his competitors under a law similar in character and as far
as possible uniform in its provisions?

It is a proof of the prescience of Robert Owen that, even before he had succeeded in planting
the first small seed which was to grow into the flourishing tree of British industrial legislation,
he had grasped the necessity and formulated the demand for international action in the matter
of Factory Laws. Owen's labours at home have, naturally enough, bulked so large in the estimation
of historians and publicists in their writings on this subject, that the continental side of
his activities has received comparatively little attention at their hands. Nevertheless his
correspondence with European governments on the abuses and needs of industrialism as it existed
in the early years of the nineteenth century are among the most remarkable he ever wrote; and
his appeal to the Congress of the Holy Alliance in 1818 shows how thoroughly prepared he was
to treat national reform as the first step to a system which should be international. Had the
statesmen of his time, too busy in their making and unmaking of kingdoms to heed his arguments
and appeals, turned their attention from those high matters (in which, after all, their achievement
was for the most part neither brilliant nor beneficial) to the homelier details of their people's
lives, social progress would have been indefinitely hastened, and we might have been spared
the sorry spectacle of one industrial nation after another committing the blunders and painfully
learning the lesson of its predecessors at the cost of much avoidable human suffering. For,
in this matter of industrial legislation, as in many others, men are astonishingly slow to
learn by example. Perhaps the most remarkable case in point that has occurred is that of Japan,
at this hour still in course of being worked out before our eyes. Here we have a nation brimful
of intelligence, quick of apprehension, with a genius for selecting from the polity and procedure
of other States exactly those features best fitted to promote prosperity and efficiency and
an unmatched power for assimilating and reproducing them in the form suitable to its own tradition
of development, following the Western Powers along the crooked path of their early dealings
with industrialism and allowing the very conditions which stunted and degraded the Lancashire
cotton operative of the 'thirties to be created in the mills of Osaka.

Since the days of Owen ideals of industrial conditions have mightily grown and developed. This
was inevitable, since the standards of social comfort and hygiene have undergone complete transformation
during the last century. But the important points to note are, first, that it is not only 'reformers'
who put forward these ideals, but that they have become to a large extent common to all classes
of the people, and, secondly, that the raising of the standard which proceeded at a slow, irregular
rate for, roughly speaking, a hundred years, quickening in one decade and remaining almost
stationary during the next, is now proceeding with comparative rapidity. Already such a rate
of mortality and sickness as was common in the trades technically called dangerous twenty years
ago has come to be regarded as monstrous and would no longer be tolerated with patience. This
acceleration in the raising of industrial standards is doubtless largely due to the conscious
participation of the workers themselves in the business of providing for their own protection;
but it may also be referred in some degree to a quickened conscience and a more intelligent
appreciation of the importance of the manual worker in the national economy on the part of
the public as a whole. The same movement has been taking place, in different degrees according
to their differing circumstances, among the other industrial peoples of the Old World and the
New. The quicker this advance on the part of some nations the more keenly was the failure of
others to make progress in the same ratio felt by those belonging to the first group. An uneasy
consciousness that the backward nations were beginning to constitute an obstacle to progressive
domestic legislation on the part of the advanced nations began to manifest itself. It appeared
that the lame ducks were setting the pace for the whole fleet, and it was seen that self-defence
no less than concern for the welfare of the human race at large demanded the devising of some
machinery by which the movements of these laggards should be quickened.

Thus, seventy years after Owen had appealed in vain to the Powers in session at Aix-la-Chapelle,
a definite step was taken towards an international agreement directed to the benefit of the
working classes of Europe. It must not be supposed that during this interval no inheritor of
Owen's tradition had been found or that his doctrine had been altogether forgotten for want
of a preacher. Now and again prophets arose who, if they did not share Owen's genius, were
at least his equals in sincerity and energy. Dr. Ernst Francke, in the article reprinted from
the Economic Journal of June 1909, which I have recommended for reference at the end of this
chapter, names one of these devoted pioneers, Daniel Legrand, an Alsatian manufacturer who
for thirty years did his best to induce France, Great Britain, Prussia, and Switzerland to
agree on a minimum of industrial legislation. Some very useful work in the same direction was
done, during the years following the Franco-German War, by a Belgian publicist; and in 1876
Colonel Frey, President of the Swiss Federal Council, took the first official step in the direction
of international labour treaties, by a speech in the Council recommending that Switzerland
should take the lead in an endeavour to establish them. To the Swiss Government belongs the
honour of addressing the first circular note to the governments of Europe proposing the calling
of a conference as a first step towards this end. This conference never met. The idea of international
labour legislation was in the air, and voluntary societies composed of social reformers were
beginning not only to discuss but to support it. The international meetings of organized workmen,
such as the miners and cotton operatives, in different countries had familiarized the continental
mind with the possibility of common action between peoples in respect of labour questions.
Nowhere did the proposal for the conference arouse more general interest than in Germany, where
the present German Emperor, then at the beginning of his career, was showing an active interest
in German conditions of industry. It seemed that he too desired to call a conference, and on
his request that he should be given precedence in the matter, the Swiss Government gracefully
gave way. So it fell out that the first conference on workmen's protection met in Berlin, at
the invitation of the German Government, in March 1890. There were fifteen delegates, all the
governments of Europe, except those of Russia and the Balkan States, being represented. The
chair was occupied by the then Minister of Commerce, Freiherr von Berlepsch, a man of broad
and enlightened views and singularly sympathetic character, who subsequently became one of
the founders of the International Association for Labour Legislation, and has probably, more
than any other individual, secured the success of its biennial meetings.

At this conference, which the German Emperor stated in precise terms to have been called in
view of the problems raised by international competition, a wide range of subjects was discussed
by the delegates of the different States, including employment in mines, Sunday work, child
labour, the employment of women and young persons, and administrative measures. While on many
points agreement was found to be possible, and the general principles which should underlie
industrial legislation were accorded ready acceptance, there was enough of objection, reservation,
and allegation of constitutional difficulty to prevent the conclusion of anything in the nature
of an international treaty. At the time the conference appeared to have failed of its object.
Subsequent events have, however, shown that this was not the case. The failure to frame an
official agreement probably showed that the ground had not yet been sufficiently laboured,
and that further action in the direction of inquiry and discussion was necessary before the
taking of so novel a step could be justified to the official mind; but it is certain that the
recognition by the representatives of all the Western States that international action in labour
questions was desirable in itself, and a goal at which governments should aim, not only laid
the foundation for future State action, but gave to the voluntary work of obtaining the materials
for building on that foundation an impetus and a sanction which it could have obtained in no
other way.

That work was speedily set on foot and continued during the next ten years. It was greatly
aided by the action of the International Labour Congress held at Zurich in 1897, when the trade
unionists who composed the gathering passed resolutions in favour of the establishment of an
International Labour Office, and by the Congress of Brussels which assembled at the invitation
of Freiherr von Berlepsch, soon afterwards. At the latter gathering, which included a number
of distinguished members of parliament, men of science, lawyers, and economists from France,
Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Holland, and Belgium, the view that for the present progress
must be made by the way of private initiative prevailed, and the creation of three national
committees, having for their object the foundation of an international association for labour
legislation, quickly followed. These committees, which had their head-quarters in Brussels,
Berlin, and Vienna respectively, were by the good offices of Professors Cauwès and Jay enabled
to call an international congress in Paris in the year of the Great Exhibition, and at this
congress the Association was actually founded, and its statutes, provisionally drafted by Professor
Mahaim and presented by the Belgian committee, were adopted. A president, a general secretary,
and an international committee were provisionally appointed. The functions of the Association
were also defined. It was designed to serve as a bond between all those who, in industrial
countries, are convinced supporters of the principle of protective legislation; to facilitate
the study of labour legislation by the publication of the labour laws of the different States,
and of reports on their administration; to assist in the compilation of international statistics
of labour and of all studies tending to bring into harmony the existing national industrial
codes; and finally, it was charged with the duty of organizing the meetings of international
congresses in which labour legislation should be considered. A very important part of its business
was to consist in the publication in German, French, and English of a periodical collection
of all labour laws newly in force in different countries.

This has been, from the first, the work of the International Labour Office, the fixed head-quarters
of the Association, which serves as an exchange and clearing-house for all information pertinent
to the Association's work. It is in perpetual session at Basle, and to it all reports and inquiries
are addressed by the national sections, while from it issue circulars for the sections' consideration
and requests for national investigation of problems which appear ripe for international treaty.
The spade work of the Association is done by the national sections in their own countries,
all action of the Association being necessarily based in the first instance on the reports
received from them at head-quarters. There are now fifteen[31] such national sections--an increase
of eight on the original group of seven formed in 1901. The actual membership of the Association
has trebled in ten years. The seven sections to which belongs the place of honour at the head
of the roll, are those of Germany, Austria, Hungary, Holland, Belgium, France, and Switzerland.
Great Britain did not form a section till 1904, and it was not till 1910 that the British Government
sent official representatives to the biennial meetings. The official representatives constitute
a very important element at those gatherings. They attend the plenary meetings and take part
in discussions, often contributing hints on their governments' attitude towards a given reform
which are invaluable to those who are framing or modifying proposals with a view to government
acceptance; and are also frequently present at the sitting of commissions charged with the
consideration of detail, where they can hear the opinions and arguments of experts on every
important point in debate. When resolutions are before the conference they do not vote--although
in respect of voting right they stand on the same footing as other delegates. But on occasion
they are not afraid to express opinions on the merits and tendencies of those resolutions which
may have a determining effect on the votes of their fellow members, and I have known a few
weighty words from such a man as M. Arthur Fontaine,[32] commending a proposal on which feeling
was largely divided, to turn the scale at once in its favour.

The delegates of a section are elected by the section itself. They may be either men or women,
and their number is in proportion to the size of the section, the maximum figure being eight,
as far as voting delegates are concerned, but substitute members and experts may be present
in addition. The following is a list of the fifteen sections represented at Zurich in 1912:
Austria, France, Germany, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, the United States, Belgium, Holland,
Switzerland, Denmark, Spain, Sweden, Norway, and Finland. In addition the following countries
and dominions sent government representatives only: Russia, Rumania, Greece, Turkey, Portugal,
Brazil, Mexico, and the Australian Commonwealth.

A brief account of the Association's method of doing business may be interesting. Meetings
are held once in two years, in the month of September, different towns in Switzerland being
selected in turn for the place of assembly. The four conferences which I personally attended
as British delegate took place in Geneva, Lucerne, Lugano, and Zurich. There are two plenary
assemblies, the first having as chief business, apart from the hearing of introductory addresses,
the appointment of the five commissions into which the conference splits up for actual work;
the second meeting to receive the reports of these commissions and their recommendations, and
decide upon the adoption or rejection of the latter. The trilingual rule is followed, delegates
addressing the assembly either in French, German, or English, as they prefer, each speech being
followed by a brief résumé in the other two languages from the interpreter. In the commissions,
by an unwritten but generally accepted custom, French and German are the only languages used.
(Latterly the representatives of the United States of America, with the individualistic courage
that becomes them, have shown a disposition to rebel against this custom and defy it; but the
close of the Zurich meeting left it uncertain whether in this particular the New World will
be able to prevail over the Old.) In the dignified speech-making of the General Assembly the
recurrent changes of language, if a little disconcerting at first, can be faced with tolerable
equanimity; but when it is a question of the quicker verbal sword-play which goes on in the
commissions, the member imperfect in the tongues finds his position occasionally difficult.
The sympathies of every humane person must go out to the expert who, having just made a telling
exposé of his case in French well practised for the occasion, encounters a crushing rejoinder
in German of which he can barely follow the general drift.

The composition of these commissions--in which all the real work of the conferences is done--is
truly heterogeneous. A commission may represent a dozen nationalities; it will certainly contain
specimens of every social class, members of the most varied shades of thought in politics,
religion, and sociology. I can still remember the constituents of my first commission at Geneva
in 1906. Our subject was the night-work of young persons. At the head of the table was a professor
of Civil Law in the University of Louvain. On either side of him sat a Catholic clerical member
of the German Reichstag; a German Protestant pastor from Bavaria; a distinguished Parisian
engineer; an Austrian nobleman interested in social reform; a Hungarian man of science; a Dutch
factory inspector; a Swiss Trade Union secretary; and myself. We were a motley crew, but the
strange 'pattern' which we must have presented to the observation of any higher intelligences
interested in our deliberations had no effect on the goodwill and good humour with which they
were conducted.

The range of subjects considered at international meetings is very wide. It includes all questions
relating to the labour of women, young persons and children; matters of health and hygiene,
with special reference to the use of poisonous material in industry, and the regulation of
dangerous trades; workmen's insurance; the establishment of wages boards and minimum rates
as preventives against sweating; the extension of the ten-hours' day and the Saturday half-holiday
to be the legal rule in all industrial countries; and the introduction of the three-shift system
and the eight-hour working day in continuous industries. As it is obvious that questions so
large, touching so deeply the domestic life and habits of every people, cannot possibly be
settled either out of hand or all at once, the Association's study of each separate problem
is always prolonged and, according to the circumstances and the difficulty of the case, more
prolonged in one instance than in another. Like the old pioneers of National Factory legislation,
the Association has proceeded along the line of least resistance: not because it lacks courage,
but for reasons of sheer prudence. If it was to become, in the words of M. Millerand, the present
French Minister of War, one of its oldest and staunchest members, 'the laboratory in which
international treaties are made', it was clear that it must not propose for international acceptance
reforms which even among the most progressive peoples were looked upon as doubtful or dangerous.
Accordingly it chose for the subject of its first great efforts two reforms in relation to
which it could count with certainty upon a considerable amount of sympathy, and proposed international
legislation prohibiting the night-work of women in factories, and the manufacture, importation,
and sale of matches made with white phosphorus. Information on both these subjects was collected
by means of the national sections; the Association in conference drew up proposals and recommendations
to the governments concerned; the governments consented to a diplomatic conference at Berne,
and the conventions concluded in 1906 were the happy result of their meeting.

But it must not be supposed that these results were reached without difficulty. Even as regards
so comparatively simple a reform as the abolition of the night-work of women--to be carried
out, after considerable 'delays' in favour of those countries in which night-work by women
had hitherto been an accepted industrial custom--the adjustment of the change to the varying
circumstances of each State proved a delicate business, and agreement could never have been
reached but for the willingness of the more backward States to make substantial sacrifices
and encounter possible risks. For this reason, the allowance of some years of grace before
adherence to the treaty should become practically binding was a measure almost of necessity.
It would have been unreasonable and might have been cruel to insist on Belgium and Hungary
assimilating their practice in such a matter to that of Great Britain without ample time to
prepare for the change. Thirteen States adhered to this treaty.

The difficulties in the white phosphorus case were at first sight even more striking, and,
to begin with, only seven States--Germany, France, Denmark, Holland, Switzerland, Italy, and
Luxemburg--were signatories of this convention. Of these, the first five had previously prohibited
the use of white phosphorus within their own frontiers. Room was, however, left for the entry
of other States into the convention at a subsequent date, with the result that the scope of
the treaty has been gradually extended, and that we now find ourselves fairly within sight
of the banishment from manufacture of one of the most deadly of all industrial poisons, and
the consequent disappearance of an industrial disease peculiarly dreadful in its nature and
symptoms. The tardy adhesion of the United Kingdom to this treaty remains a matter of regret;
but the procedure of the Indian Government and of all the British self-governing dominions
in following the mother country when at last she determined to take action has done much to
redeem that tardiness. Obviously, it was the prohibition of the importation and sale of phosphorus
matches in India and the Dominions which has forced the Scandinavian and Belgian manufacturers
who were opposing complete prohibition to seek for substitutes for white phosphorus. At the
present moment only Japan and Sweden among manufacturing countries stand outside the convention,
the United States, whose constitution forbade her to impose prohibition by direct legislation,
having brought about the desired result by the imposition of a prohibitive tax.

Is this all? it may be asked. If the question be of treaties signed, sealed, and ratified,
the answer must be 'Yes'. On the subject of the night-work of boys and the hours of women and
young persons, proposals were actually considered and conventions drafted by an official conference
at Berne in 1913. The draft conventions were far from admirable: their framers went so far
in the spirit of compromise to meet the objections of the backward States that the provisions
laid down, had they been accepted without modification, would have tended to depress rather
than to raise the standard of international opinion on the questions to be affected by them.
We need not, therefore, feel much regret that the war has swept them, with so many other pre-war
schemes, into the wastepaper-basket. The vast question of minimum rates of wages and their
regulation by the State is obviously still too much in the experimental stage of its solution
(even in this country where experiments have been boldest) for it to be possible to make it
the subject of international agreement. As a subject of international discussion it has had
its place, and an increasingly important place, for at least eight years past in the studies
of the sections and the discussions of the Association meeting. Upon no question has public
international opinion ripened more rapidly. In 1906, at Geneva, where the conditions of home
workers were first under discussion, a few daring delegates met in corners and whispered under
their breath the words 'Wages board'. By 1910, at Lugano, an English woman delegate was elected
joint president of the Association's Home Work Committee, 'as a recognition of Great Britain's
achievement in passing the first Trade Boards Act'; at Zurich, in 1912, a two-day conference
on the legal minimum wage preceded the meeting of the Association, and a whole sheaf of minimum
wage bills introduced by private members into the Chambers of different countries was before
the delegates, together with an official measure of the French Government. To watch this change
of attitude was to see international thought in the making. To appreciate its full significance,
it is necessary to bear in mind the different aspects presented by the 'sweating' difficulty
in this country and in the great industrial States of the Continent. The French or German social
reformer sees it mainly, if no longer exclusively, as a problem of home work. Now home work
in Great Britain is a by-product of a strictly limited class of industries, affecting a comparatively
small class of the population; in France and Germany it forms a highly important section of
the general industrial structure, it is interwoven, to an extent rarely grasped by British
students, with the life, and habits, and productive power of the nation. Much more courage--and
greater freedom from prejudice--was required in the one case than the other. The remarkable
advance towards definite action on the part of the State in relation to the establishment of
minimum rates for home workers which took place between 1906 and 1913 could not have been achieved
in so short a time but for the labours of certain voluntary associations led by men of insight,
candour, and indefatigable devotion. In this connexion the pioneer work of the late Comte de
Mun and Professor Raoul Jay has been of inestimable value. Realizing themselves, as did few
unofficial reformers, the wide nature of the movement in which they had engaged and the impossibility
of confining it in its sweep and effects to a section of the manual workers, they succeeded
in gradually bringing home to the ablest among their fellow-workers the necessity for closing
the gulf which French mental habit had fixed between factory and home workers and preparing
to treat both classes on a similar footing of equity. In Germany,--where, as we might expect,
there was less forwardness to launch unofficial schemes and a disposition to work rather from
the first through authoritative channels--experiments were being made under the Home Work Act
which, if of little value in themselves, seemed the earnest of much better things.

If this result only had been attained, the meetings of the Association and the labours of the
sections would not have been in vain. But far more was in process of achievement when the work
of the Association was interrupted by the catastrophe of the European War. The adoption in
all industrial countries of the 'English week', with its half-holiday so much coveted by the
continental worker--the establishment of a uniform working day--the gradual introduction of
the eight-hours shift into such 'continuous industries' as steel-smelting and glass-blowing--an
international agreement to eliminate the use of lead from many branches of the pottery industry
and to limit and safeguard its use in all others,--these were only some among the questions
which study and investigation and discussion had brought to a stage at which the Association
could look upon them as fit matter for potential international conventions in August 1914.
Now that its activities are, for the most part, in suspense, it is well to remember that its
greatest achievement was the proof, again and again renewed, that it is possible for persons
of twenty different nationalities, holding the most diverse opinions on nearly every subject
under the sun, not only to act together but to find common motives of action so strong as to
break down every sundering barrier of political doctrine and religious creed. Whatever of suspicion
or antipathy might flourish outside the boundaries of the international association, these
evil weeds have never taken root inside them. Is it Utopian to dream, when the days of peace
shall have returned, of a reconciliation within its borders for those between whom at present
the great gulf of division seems hopelessly fixed?

BOOKS FOR REFERENCE

History of Factory Legislation, Harrison and Hutchins. Macmillan. Revised edition.

Frederic Keeling, Child Labour in the United Kingdom. P.S. King.

Clementina Black, Sweating. Duckworth.

R.H. Tawney, Studies in the Minimum Wage: (i) Chainmaking; (ii) Tailoring. G. Bell & Sons.

J.A. Hobson, Work and Wealth. Macmillan.

Edward Howarth and Mona Wilson, West Ham: A Study. Dent.

Sir Thomas Oliver, M.D., Dangerous Trades. John Murray.

Annual Reports of International Association for Labour Legislation (British Section), 1906-14.
To be obtained of the Secretary, Queen Anne's Chambers, 28 Broadway, Westminster.

Ernest Barker, Nationalism and Internationalism. C.S.U. Pamphlets, Mowbray, Oxford.

Dr. Bauer, International Legislation. Mowbray, Oxford.

Ernest Francke, 'International Labour Treaties,' Economic Journal (June, 1909). Reprinted separately,
Macmillan.

Albert Métin, Les Traités Ouvriers. Armand Colin: Paris.

E. Mahaim, Le Droit International Ouvrier. Librairie Recueil-Sirey: Paris.

Fagnot, Millerand et Strohl, La Durée légale du Travail. Félix Alcan: Paris.

Paul Boyaval, La Lutte contre le Sweating System. Félix Alcan: Paris.

Students might also consult the following Reports:

Le Travail à Domicile en France. Ministère du Travail: Paris.

Le Travail à Domicile en Belgique. Ministère du Travail: Bruxelles.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 31: These figures represent the position at the last meeting of the Association held
at Zurich, 1912.]

[Footnote 32: The distinguished Permanent Head of the French Labour Office.]

XI

COMMON IDEALS OF SOCIAL REFORM

Earlier ages were more able than ours to believe in the good old days. We, knowing more of
the past than our forefathers did, can find in it no golden age. But our eyes do not rest even
upon the present. In the nineteenth century men thought they were at the end of a process,
and their evolutionary creed was often only a polite method of saying what fine fellows they
were. Now we look forward. The future seems to us longer than the past and more important than
the present; and we ourselves seem to be at the beginning rather than at the end of time. A
knowledge of the past has made it impossible to believe that growth has stopped, and we understand
how different the future may be, in part at least, by perceiving how different even this grimy
and blood-stained present is from the still more inhuman past.

Among the recorded changes the Economists write of an increasing interchange of goods, and
we can see as well an increasing interchange of ideas across the frontiers of States. Music,
painting, literature, and science have all been influenced; and ideas concerning political,
economic, and social facts have been affected by that interchange which has developed our philosophy,
our science, and our art. No one nation has originated all; and each nation has depended on
hints and hypotheses which have arisen in others.

But the interchange of ideas on social life has led to an increase of ideals, which are plans
of action emotionally appreciated and therefore motive forces. Some of these are the Utopias
of individual thinkers; but we shall consider here only those more powerful ideals which are
shared, however vaguely, by many. In this case also, as in the purely intellectual sphere,
the fire spreads from group to group, from nation to nation; and as the interchange of ideas
increases knowledge, so the exchange of enthusiasm makes action more powerful. A really effective
ideal, however, cannot arise except from the perception of definite evil. Vague discontents
may cause such revolution as leads to reaction; but the clear sight of evil is the only source
of reform. We may take it for granted, then, that although an ideal is nerveless if it is not
passionate, it is futile unless it is based on knowledge. Therefore a hint must be given of
the evils from the knowledge of which ideals of social reform now rise. That all is not well
in the relations of man to man or of group to group must be fairly obvious to any one with
imagination enough for sympathy. General dissatisfaction and universal cures for society are
childish; but the perception of this and that evil gives rise to different plans for reform
which all originate in the enthusiasm which is an ideal. We may put aside the long history
of the growth of this shared enthusiasm for better relations between men, whatever their ability,
their rank, their race, or their government.

The common ideals of the present are the result of a gradual development, but we shall consider
them here as attempts to deal with existing evils and plans for a better future.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some social evils of the present are perhaps as old as any settled civilization. Such are disease
and personal violence. Some are due to forces which have come into existence recently, owing
to increased communication and accumulated wealth. Such are extreme poverty and the dehumanizing
of social relations. With both kinds of evil we are moved to deal, and we are not deterred
from the attempt to reform even long-established evil; for we feel that we do not know what
is possible. Nothing is inevitable. This is not the place to give in detail the description
of those evils which are being dealt with. It is enough if we recognize that it is no abstract
or airy theory of equality or human nature which moves us to action. All real theories are
intensely personal: and no theory has ever yet moved men unless they saw through it to the
crude facts. However it may be phrased in a theory of society, we recognize it as evil that
disease, leading to premature death, should be as common as it is. As a social evil it may
be said to disturb seriously the relations between men. We see also that it is a social evil
that men should use fraud or violence in compelling labour or in the pursuit of riches. Of
the newer social evils there is the physical and spiritual deterioration which seems to result
from the massing of men in great cities. There is also the dehumanizing of the relations between
master and man. And this is like in kind to the dehumanizing of all functions in the vast institutions
of modern times. The director of a company comes to regard himself as part of a machine; and
so does the shareholder. So eventually does the agent of the State. Until at last we reach
the immense evil that human action is done for which no moral responsibility is felt. How then
shall we act? What has been done and what is still hoped for? The answer to such questions
will be a statement of ideals.

One may speak of ideals of social reform from two different points of view; either with respect
to (1) the changing sentiment which produces movements for reform or with respect to (2) the
institutional change which embodies that sentiment. The two are complementary parts of one
historical movement: and it is difficult to divide them as cause and effect. For sentiment,
becoming enthusiasm, certainly causes institutional change, and yet the reformed institution
invariably creates a new sentiment. The province of law and of social custom is to lead as
well as to register--a dynamic as well as a static influence, to increase order and to incite
to liberty. In actual life, therefore, it is often impossible to separate the sentiment from
its embodiment in measures of social reform.

For purposes of study, however, one may divide. We may put aside the moving sentiments--the
passions, however faint, which urge men to wish for a better future--and we may consider first
the particular instances of reform.

       *       *       *       *       *

One definite and in some sense new departure in the results of the shared enthusiasms of nations
has been the industrial legislation of recent years. That has been already dealt with. But,
although in an economic age such as ours industrial reform may seem the most striking, it is
not the only effect of our shared enthusiasm and later ages may not think it the most important.
There has been reform of social evils owing to the interchange between nations of ideas on
education, religious toleration, medicine, and sanitation, the treatment of criminals, the
suppression of slavery and many other subjects. All these and many more reforms are, as it
were, registered in institutional (legal or administrative) change.

Perhaps it is better to begin with a definite instance of the working of an ideal, lest it
may seem that we are speaking only of an empty aspiration. We may take as an example the reforms
connected with medicine and sanitation, and those only in so far as they have been officially
established by the joint action of states. This is a very restricted embodiment of a social
ideal, since of course we may find the same use of common labour between men of different races
in the private contest with disease or in the municipal preventive medicine which in every
great city owes much to investigators and practitioners of other nations. But it is better
to take the most tangible effect in purely governmental action.

The French Government proposed an international conference, which met in 1851, to deal with
infectious disease; and a second conference met in 1856. In 1865 the outburst of cholera in
the East led to a third congress at Constantinople. Great Britain opposed treaties for regulating
quarantine, &c., because of the delay which might be caused to the pursuit of shipping interests.
But at last a treaty was made in 1892 at Venice for protection against cholera. Further and
more effective treaties were agreed to by civilized states in 1897 and 1903. A bureau of information
concerning infectious disease was established at Paris, and commissions to supervise were established
in Turkey and Egypt. With regard to sleeping sickness Great Britain took the initiative; and
a conference met in 1907, in London, at which six countries were represented. So much with
respect to disease; we may now turn to examples of the joint action of states as regards crime.

The African slave traffic has been dealt with since 1885 (Berlin Conference) by the European
States acting together on certain general principles. And what is known as the White Slave
traffic was the subject of arrangement between fifteen states in the conference at Paris in 1902.

Again, the reform of prisons and penitentiaries has been much assisted by international congresses
since 1846. The last was held in 1910 in America, at which twenty-eight states were represented.
A secretariat has been established at Berne for the exchange of expert opinion and for making
suggestions to governments.

These are examples of a very numerous class of reforms undertaken by the joint action of governments.
They are all comparatively recent and most of the twenty-eight unions between governments for
concerted action have been established during the years of European peace between 1871 and
1914. In these instances the States of Europe have put their precious sovereignties into their
pockets; although the lawyers and diplomatists explain the situation in the old terms.

With respect to all these movements for social reform three points must be noticed: first,
the initiative in most reform has come from private enterprise and not from diplomacy or governments.
Secondly, this private interest has spread from the few of one nation to the few of another
before any effective result was attained. Thirdly, the states have not acted together because
of any general theory of international action, but simply because certain social evils could
not be dealt with at all by any state acting separately. Whatever hampers common action, then,
also hinders effective reform in dealing with disease or crime. I need not elaborate the conclusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are also instances of governmental action being directly influenced by the practice of
other states, even when there has been no common action. The two most striking reforms of recent
years have been in education and religious toleration. Of education enough has already been
said. The interest from our point of view here is chiefly in the effect of education on social
structure. It is increasingly evident that of all forces for transforming a nation, education
is the most powerful; but no one nation can transform its education effectively without respect
to the mistakes and successes of its neighbours. This has been perceived and acted upon. The
influence, for example, of Germany on England is sufficiently well known. German precedents
were quoted in the House of Commons in the early days of state education for England: and the
Education Acts of 1870 and 1876 were largely due to the impression made in England by the success
of state education in Prussia. Coleridge, Carlyle, and Matthew Arnold definitely acknowledged
a debt to Germany. But Germany owed something to England in the perception of the value of
surroundings and corporate life in schools. France also was affected by English education;
and, in fact, French educators had to come to England to find the thing for which the French
gave us the name--Esprit de Corps.

The United States have been very definitely influenced in their University education both by
Germany and England; and their Government has in primary education certainly established for
all states the transforming possibilities of a school system. It must be remembered that the
crudity of civilization and its apparent corruption in the United States are European not American.
It is because Europe has neglected its duty, enslaved and brutalized its peoples, that social
and political evil enters with the immigrants; and all this mass of European incompetence,
the result of neglect or evil-doing in Ireland, Poland, the Slavonic Countries and Italy, the
Government of the United States exorcises with education: and the effect is spreading beyond
the frontiers of the States. A further effect of influence passing from nation to nation has
been the change with regard to the relations of State and Church. In England it is some years
since the State persecuted in the supposed interest of religion; but we remember that the abolition
of tests against Roman Catholics was as late as 1830 and as against Jews as late as 1850. Even
the most backward of European countries have been affected by the general feeling. In 1874
Austria for the first time allowed any creed, not dangerous to morals, to be preached; and
ecclesiastical power is not any longer to be used against any but members of the particular
Church which is offended. In Spain there are still some obstacles to public manifestations
of any religious belief but that which is most prevalent; free worship in private, however,
is at last allowed. Thus, the general tendency, spreading from the nations which are most intricately
divided in religion, has been towards what is called toleration. Connected with this has been
the gradual recognition of civil marriage; in which the old privilege of the most powerful
Church is no longer recognized by the modern State. Law and custom have both changed.

Perhaps the general attitude has not really changed. We persecute more for political than for
religious unorthodoxy; or it may be that in our more economic age we forbear to burn heretics
only because we cannot afford the faggots. But in any case the relations between men in society
are more justly arranged, even where religion is concerned.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have thus examples of (1) joint governmental action and (2) separate actions of governments
influenced directly by foreign governments.

There are also certain results of the interchange of ideals between nations which are not yet,
or only in part, registered in legal or political institutions. Such for example is the changed
position given to women. A change has occurred quite outside the political or even the economic
sphere, both in the habits of western humanity and in their guiding conceptions.

The change is affecting the meaning of marriage, since we are becoming inclined to suppose
that man and woman are not simply male and female. Human individuality is given a new value;
and there is no telling yet what the new attitude may involve in lessening the friction due
to primitive and obsolete tradition or in making society more reasonable and civilized. The
source of the change is undoubtedly an enthusiasm which has been influenced by men and women
of all nations. Ibsen has a place in the history of social transformation. And besides, the
contact between nations has made it possible for the freer position of women in one group to
affect the domestic slavery of another.

In the position of children, also, an immense change is proceeding. We cannot fail to call
it social reform, that the child should be given so much more definite a place in the social
organism. Aristotle thought woman was a mistake of nature's in the attempt to make man; and
nearly all philosophers have treated children as if they ought to be rather ashamed of themselves
for not being grown up. I speak of philosophers in the wide sense of the term, for I do not
think the metaphysicians knew that there was such a thing as a child in the universe. However
that may be, we can hardly believe that as late as the nineteenth century parents really imagined
that they knew what was good for their children. In our more sceptical age, children have generally
to be careful not to allow their parents to read certain books, and in every well brought up
family, it is thought that parents should be seen and not heard. A social change has occurred
in the comparative importance we assign to childhood and age.

Thirdly, there is gradually coming about a transformation of social castes. One must speak
carefully; for in the West we are supposed not to have castes. There is, however, an uncomfortable
feeling that society is not one, that the two cities which Plato said would divide and destroy
the true city of men are now established--the rich and the poor. I do not mean those with £3,000
a year, and those with £160 a year. It is not a question for the Exchequer. I mean that great
numbers in all 'civilized' nations are ill-fed and ill-clothed from birth, and die prematurely.
To perceive it is to desire action which perhaps no state can perform. But that we perceive
it is something. Read the complacent rhymes of Lord Tennyson about 'freedom slowly broadening
down' and then turn to contemporary literature, to Jean Richepin or John Galsworthy, and you
will acknowledge that a common ideal of social reform has come into existence. We are at least
restless in face of a social organization which wastes humanity during long years of peace
almost as completely, though not so recklessly, as during a few months of war.

Something has been already done--English writers and English experience have given a motive
power to Hungarian, Russian, Finnish, Turkish, Persian, and Indian democracy. Groups of men
have claimed, for example in South America, their right to free development. And everywhere
during the period of European peace the contact between nations was teaching every nation the
force of its own character, while the new complexities of society were weakening the old dividing
lines of caste between individuals.

In all these matters we seem to be moved by a desire for a freer social atmosphere. Whether
law or administration changes or not, it is clear that most European nations have undergone
in the years of peace from 1871 to 1914 considerable social changes. How far they are effective
in all nations and in all classes it is very difficult for a contemporary to judge. It may
be that the social structure of the decorative upper fringe or of the bedraggled hem of society
is much the same as it was before communication was easy and transit rapid. But the central
body of European society is certainly changed; and, after all, between the scum and the dregs
is the good soup.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such are the changes which have been introduced into social life owing to the interdependence
of nations. But we should not understand what has happened if we accepted the mere record of
achievements. The future is built not only upon what we have done, but upon what we hope to
do. Reforms accomplished do not make us more satisfied to endure evil not yet reformed--for
always working in the achieved present is the ideal which transformed the past into what we
now see.

We may turn, then, to consider some general features of the force working in social reform
which is not yet achieved. And for that purpose we put aside established law and custom to
consider the implied attitude.

Now that political privilege and inequality before the law are more or less removed, there
is a greater concentration upon the underlying social injustice. We all accept it as good that
the activities of government should not be for the benefit of the few, or that the money should
not be drawn from one class. We suppose at least that there should be one law for rich and poor.

To any one with a knowledge of history this seems an immense step since small classes in every
nation held political privilege, made law for others, and forced tribute from the majority.
Not that all is justice and liberty. The law still, with noble impartiality, forbids both the
millionaire and the pauper to steal bread. Of course it is not directed against the poor. The
law never forbids the poor man to cheat the state out of more than £3,000 a year. Again, political
power still depends on the social position of your cousins and your aunts. But something has
been done.

We hear much more nowadays about social than about political or legal reform. That, in itself,
is a sign of a change of attitude. In the revolution of 1381 the crowds came marching to London
swearing, in the words of the old chronicle, that there would be no peace in the land till
each and every lawyer was slain. In the revolutions of 1830 and 1848 it was 'death to the politicians'.
Now--it may be that we despair of lawyers or politicians, dead or alive. In any case the attention
of those in every state who are moved by enthusiasm for a better society is concentrated less
upon votes and laws than upon the distribution of well-being.

Secondly, there has been a transference of enthusiasm of the religious or poetic kind from
the sphere of contemplation or aloofness to that of earthly and even material action. Ideals
of social reform do not any longer involve a neglect of food and clothing: we are all more
and more convinced that it is idle to preach culture to a starving man, or to talk of liberty
to one whose whole life is a bestial struggle for bare food and covering. I speak of normal
times. In England, France, and Germany, social betterment means giving to a greater number
security of bare life, upon which alone the good life can be built.

It will be seen that I imply a disagreement with the Tolstoian conception of reform; in so
far as that involves a neglect of food and clothing and generally of what are called material
goods. That conception is not perhaps powerful among those who deal with what is usually called
social reform. It is not 'modern', and it is also dependent upon a mistaken argument in ethical
theory. An unfortunate confusion made by what is called Eastern, Stoic, or Mediaeval asceticism
led to the idea that because the mind is more important than the body, the body has no importance
at all. But we need not deal with this theory in detail, especially as the general attitude
of to-day is opposed to it. There is undoubtedly a concentration upon the bare necessities
of human life with a view to discovering how these can be shared more generally.

We are fully aware of the immense social danger in the desire for riches; but that is no objection
to the desire for bread and clothing and the bare necessities of human life. And the seemingly
materialistic enthusiasm which will gradually transform our semi-bestial civilization is no
less poetic or religious than any Eastern aloofness or Tolstoian simplicity. Poetry is not
all rhyming couplets: religion is not all for the intellectually or artistically incompetent.
So, a world in which twenty per cent. of humanity did not slowly starve to death would not
necessarily be less worthy of admiration. Nor would religion disappear if every one were healthy,
unless religion means the result of neurasthenia or dyspepsia or premature ageing. No doubt
there is some exaggeration in this element of the common social ideals. Not even a poor man
lives on bread alone; and it is indeed possible to have a perfectly well-fed society which
would be quite barbarous. But we must regard the fine flower of culture as purchased at too
high a price if, for the sake of a few connoisseurs and courtiers not to say bourgeois plutocrats,
the majority in every nation must lack a bare human life. Some declare that the division between
nations is more important than that between the rich and the poor. It may be so; but the only
reason must be that what the few have, the many, however dimly, may hope to share or may be
induced to think they do share. Humanity is infinitely gullible. But in every nation there
is rising a murmur which may yet become an articulate cry.

The writers of modern Utopias in their detailed conception of what is desirable may speak only
for themselves; but it is a sign of the common enthusiasm that they all attach so much importance
to organization and to physical health. This indicates that we all, in every nation, look forward,
however vaguely, to a society in which human life shall be less difficult for the majority
to obtain. We speak sometimes of the redistribution of leisure--August Bebel made it one of
the chief articles of his creed. But this as an ideal does not indicate any desire that the
dock-labourer should have time to loaf in a club, or his wife time to play bridge, except in
so far as time to loaf is an opportunity for some other employment than the mere struggle for
food. There is nothing inevitable in a situation which makes the development of most of the
human faculties a privilege of a few and an impossibility for the greater number. Nor is it
correct to suppose that the half-starved and the ill-clothed should be satisfied with being
'virtuous', and leave it to others, possibly wicked and certainly far from simple, to cultivate
art and science.

Nor again is it absurd to hope for a world in which all should have at least the opportunity
for the development of any faculties they may possess. The social gain would be immense. It
would be like the change from a harmony which is produced by a few amateurs to one of a full
orchestra.

Thirdly, it is increasingly evident that no one state or nation can act effectively in social
reform unless it acts in concert with others. Treaties of commerce, common prison legislation,
and common measures for sanitation and medicine have proved effective because they are in the
nature of things. They are necessary means for the desired prosperity even of the most selfish
and segregated state.

But ignorance and prejudice and irrational violence spread as easily as disease or crime. Knowledge
is not secure until it is widespread; and civilization perishes, which is segregated in a world
of barbarism. Therefore education also, in its widest sense, must be contrived in common. Not
merely school systems influenced by foreign ideas, but the very atmosphere of thought must
change in harmony among all nations, if we are not to go toppling down into the abyss from
which by painful centuries we have ascended.

       *       *       *       *       *

This ideal of social reform then seems to be agreed upon between some men of all nations, that
more common action should be taken. It is not a vague sentiment for the abolition of conflict
between states; nor is it a pious aspiration for peace. It is the clear perception that the
state cannot fulfil its functions in modern life if it continues to act as isolated or segregated.
That for which the state itself stands cannot be attained even within the frontiers of one
state by any state acting alone.

This is not the place to distinguish those subjects upon which states should act together from
those on which they should act separately. That is simply the problem as to the limits of political
regionalism. The fact which is sufficient for our argument here is that certain forces, chiefly
economic, have come into existence in recent years, which disregard state boundaries. In concrete
terms, these are international trusts and international labour interests. But it is increasingly
evident that these cannot be effectively dealt with by any one state acting separately. The
isolated sovereign state of earlier times is simply helpless before the elaborate world-system
of economics; and control can only be secured by an established world-system of politics. The
states, one supposes, exist for justice and liberty. Divided, they will perish or become mere
playthings in the hands of non-moral economic 'interests'.

To save itself and all it stands for, the state must cease to pose as a possible opponent to
any other state, and must deliberately co-operate in an increasing number of reforms.

It is better to put into the coldest terms a conception which has too often hitherto proved
futile, because it arose rather from vague discontent, than from the perception of a definite
evil. The fire of enthusiasm must indeed work upon that conception before any effective change
can be made in the attitude of governments or of peoples. But enthusiasm will be wasted if
we cannot pause to see against what we are contending.

We are struggling with the greatest of all obstacles to social reform when we attack the isolation
of nations. Unless that is overcome we shall perhaps patch and prop; but, time and again, we
shall be enslaved to the immensely powerful non-moral forces, in the midst of which humanity
finds its way. I cannot speak more clearly--[Greek: bous epi glôssê]. The nations face each
other in conflict, while death, disease, violence, bestial indolence and docility corrode every
state.

       *       *       *       *       *

But when war was at its brutish worst Grotius spoke with effect of a moral bond which survived
between men who in physical conflict had been trying to take their 'enemies' for beasts and
stones. And humanity began once more its long struggle with the beast in man. So now--I leave
it to your imagination.

We have made immense progress by assisting each other across the frontiers of states in such
science as may provide high explosive and submarine warfare. In these the nations have co-operated.
The guns which kill the English at the Dardanelles were made by Englishmen. There may yet come
a time when high explosives will be out of date, and the state will use the careful dissemination
of disease among its enemies. The only reason, I think, why it is not now done, is that no
group can be certain of making itself immune from the disease it may spread among its enemies.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our conclusion, therefore, is that one of the elements in the present attitude towards social
reform is a tendency to co-operation between nations. We have seen that this has already had
effect in various details of law and administration; and there is every reason to suppose that
the method will be carried further.

But the problem cannot be left there. Co-operation as a word is a mere charm, like Evolution.
There has been, and there may be co-operation in doing wrong. That action has become common
does not prove that it is right; and an ideal implies at least some ethical judgement. Therefore,
in every nation there are some few who are convinced of the necessity for more deliberately
moral action in common between men of different races. If there can be so much co-operation
in the making of armaments or the defrauding of shareholders, there may yet be more co-operation
in the elimination of disease and poverty. And not only may there be such co-operation, but
it must be. The situation no longer exists in which most of the effects of an evil régime are
confined within frontiers. The social distress of European nations must be dealt with as a
whole because it is a whole. Therefore whatever militates against the unity of western civilization
destroys the possibility of social reform.

Many times before it has been seen that there are nobler conflicts than the struggle for markets
or for the political domination of one clique or one nation. Many times before it has been
felt, at least by a few, that man is deceived when he imagines that man is his enemy. And many
times when the deliverance seemed near we have been enslaved again by an evil magic. A hundred
years ago, at the end of the Napoleonic wars, the dreamers imagined that humanity would have
done with its false prophets and lay the ghosts which have haunted it since it began to shake
off the manners of the beasts. But a dismal succession of new falsehoods and new blind guides
appeared. And now, in this so advanced age, we have to face the same possibility. There is
much to excuse a despair; from which nothing can free us but a new enthusiasm. The evil magic
must be overcome by magic of another kind, and how acute the crisis seems it is hardly possible
to indicate.

The quality of our age was its expectancy. For that reason men of every nation were moved to
desire a transformed society. But perhaps that quality of expectancy was the quality of youth.
For the first time in history, in the early twentieth century, age was giving place to youth
in the political equilibrium of the generations. Now--I dare not speak too plainly. The young
men of the western world are already, since August 1914, noticeably fewer. Death may have made
no difference to them. It has made an immense difference to the future. It means that the eager
expectancy of youth, which is the source of so much enthusiasm for a better world, is being
lost. The crisis is here. As yet the common ideals of civilized nations still survive; but
the desire for a better future is at ebb and flow with a tired acquiescence in the established
order. It is in our hands to decide which shall overcome. No generation has faced a greater
issue. We cannot tell what will be the outcome; but to hope too much is at least a more generous
fault than to despair too soon.

BOOKS FOR REFERENCE

C.D. Burns, Political Ideals. Clarendon Press.

P. Geddes, Cities in Evolution. Williams & Norgate.

J.A. Hobson, Towards International Government. Allen & Unwin.

P.S. Reinsch, Public International Unions. Ginn & Co.

XII

POLITICAL BASES OF A WORLD-STATE

World-state is a term likely to be offensive in its arrogance, if it be taken to mean the substitution
of a single political community and government for the numerous separate national states which
have hitherto existed. I therefore hasten to say that I intend no such meaning, but use the
term as a convenient expression to cover any body of political arrangements, to which most
of the principal nations of the world are parties, sufficiently stable in character and wide
in scope to merit the title of international government.

Towards such a possibility the nineteenth century has made three great contributions. During
that century great advances have been made in the settlement of political government upon a
basis of nationality. This process has been accomplished partly by throwing off the dominion
of some foreign power, as in the case of Belgium, Greece, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Rumania, and
Serbia, and the South American colonies of Spain; partly by the closer federal union of independent
states, as in the case of Germany and Switzerland; partly by a blend of the two methods as
in the case of Italy; and partly by the peaceful dissolution of an unnatural union, as with
Norway and Sweden. Though much still remains to be done before the identification of statehood
with nationality even for Europe is completed, and some backward steps have been taken, the
growing acceptance of the conception of nationality as a just and expedient basis of government
is a powerful guarantee for the persistence of this joint work of liberation and of union.
If, as the result of the settlement following this war, political readjustments are made which
fairly satisfy the remaining aspirations after national autonomy, the more pacific atmosphere
will favour all opportunities for co-operation between nations.

The second contribution of the nineteenth century towards political internationalism is of
a more positive character. It consists in a series of inchoate and fragmentary but genuine
attempts of the Great Powers to work together upon critical occasions in the interests of 'justice
and order', as they understood those terms, and to embody in acts or conventions some policy
which is the result of their deliberations. This flickering light, called the Concert of Europe,
first kindled at the Congress of Vienna, has reappeared fitfully throughout the century. The
treaties, declarations, and conventions, proceeding from these conferences or congresses of
the Powers, have marked important advances, not only in the substance of international law,
but in the method of legislation. For whereas, before the Congress of Vienna, all the treaties
between states which helped to form the body of international law were the acts of two or,
at the most, a small group of states, since that time law-making treaties of general application
and of world-wide importance have come into being. The most noteworthy examples of these general
treaties are the Final Act of the Vienna Congress in 1815, the Declaration of Paris in 1856,
the Geneva Convention of 1864, the Treaty of Berlin in 1878, the General Act of the Congo Conference
in 1885, and the two Hague Conferences of 1899 and 1907. Having regard to the general character
of many of the rules laid down at these conferences, as, for instance, the abolition of the
slave trade, the neutralization of certain lands and waters, and the regulation of the rules
of war, it is clear that we have to recognize throughout last century the existence of a rudimentary
organ of international legislation, very irregular in its operation, very imperfect in structure
and authority, but none the less a genuine experiment in international government.

Hardly less significant for our purpose has been the prominent assertion of the principle of
federalism in the formation or growth of national government. The great example of the United
States has been followed by Switzerland and Germany, by Mexico, Argentine, Brazil, and Venezuela,
and by the dominions of the British Empire in Canada, Australia, and South Africa. I must not
in this brief survey even touch upon the different forms of federalism. It must suffice to
remark that, whether as a a principle of devolution, as in the case of the proposal of Home
Rule for the constituent parts of Great Britain, or as a principle of closer union, as in the
proposal for a federated British Empire, federalism is very much alive. It furnishes a hopeful
mode not only for reconciling demands for local autonomy with effective central sovereignty
among the provinces or districts of a single national state, but even for harmonizing the claims
of separate nationality with those of wider racial, linguistic, and traditional sympathy. But
even more important than these distinctively political movements and events, as a pledge of
the coming world-state, is the manifold structure of industrial and commercial internationalism
which has been growing during the last few generations at an ever accelerating pace. The network
of material, financial, and intellectual communications, connecting all parts of the developed
world, and establishing quick, constant, cheap, and reliable modes of transport for men, goods,
money, and information, form the actual basis of what may not improperly be called an economic
world-state. Though much of this machinery, with the great work of international trade and
capitalistic co-operation which it assists to perform, lies outside the sphere of politics,
there are innumerable points of political contact and pressure. The realities of foreign policy
in every state are more and more concerned with issues of trade, communications, and concessions,
and the treaties and other formal arrangements between states are to a growing extent the instruments
and the expressions of the internationalism of economic interests. The imperialism and the
colonial policy of each great Power, though composed of various ingredients, are mainly directed
by commerce and finance. Most of the disagreements and conflicts between governments relate
to interferences with the free play of economic internationalism by states whose policy is
still dominated by foolish and obsolescent rules of a narrowly national economy. An enlightened
interpretation of the needs and interests of modern man demands that all such national economic
barriers be removed and replaced by governmental co-operation to secure, by free trade and
an open door, for capital and labour the fullest and best development and distribution of the
economic resources of the world.

While, therefore, the most impressive political events of the nineteenth century have been
the expression and the successful realization of nationalism, many powerful undercurrents of
internationalism have been gathering force. The pressures of civilization have been more and
more towards extra-national activities. Thoughtful men and women in our time recognize the
urgent need of closer international communion for three related purposes: First, the consolidation,
extension, and effective sanction of the existing body of international law; secondly, the
establishment of peace on a basis of reliable methods for the just settlement of differences;
thirdly, the provision of regular accepted means for the co-operation of nations in all sorts
of positive constructive work for the human commonwealth.

These general considerations I will ask you to regard as introductory to the grave practical
question which confronts us. Is this essential work of internationalism consistent with the
preservation of the sovereignty and independence of the present national state, or does its
performance involve some definite cession of these national state-rights to the requirements
of an international government?

The terrible events which are passing to-day ripen and sharpen this issue. They bring into
powerful relief the inherent defects of an international polity based upon the absolute independence
of the several states, and the futile mechanical balances and readjustments by which foreign
policy has been conducted hitherto. But how far do they offer assistance or security for the
achievement of organic reform? After this war has come to a close, will the nations and governments
be enabled to lay a sound basis for pacific settlement of disputes and for active co-operation
in the common cause of humanity for the future? No confident answer to this question is possible.
For nobody can predict the composition and the relative strength of the feelings and ideas
which will constitute 'the state of mind' of the several nations and their statesmen. As regards
immediate or early policy, much will, of course, depend upon the definiteness of the victory
and defeat, and the consequent distribution and intensity of the passions of elation and depression,
anger and revenge, which peace may leave behind. It is, of course, part of the fighting strength
of every belligerent to persuade himself that an overwhelming victory for himself affords the
best security of peace and progress in the future. But this conclusion, based on the prior
assumption, equally liable to error, that one's own cause is entirely right and one's enemy's
entirely wrong, is unlikely to be sound. A peace which brings the least intensity of triumph
and humiliation, the most even distribution of gains and losses, would seem to give an atmosphere
most favourable to the growth of pacific internationalism. This, of course, will be sharply
contested, and those who contest it will exhibit the usual excessive confidence of those whose
mind moves in a shut oven of heated but unmeaning phrases about fighting to a finish, crushing
German militarism, and 'a war to end war'. But there is no stronger evidence of the intellectual
and moral havoc of war than the easy acceptance of what Ruskin called 'masked words' in lieu
of thinking. In war-time this domination of 'masked words' is all-powerful, and is likely to
leave the thinking powers of all Europe seriously impaired when the war is over.

There are those who hold that sheer exhaustion, nervous and economic, will compel the nations
to seek concerted action against the recurrence of so shattering an experience, that some sheer
instinct of self-preservation will find expression in adequate political arrangements. I should
be the last to deny the reality of the collective instinct. But remember that, as an instinct,
it works blindly, and is liable to be diverted and frustrated in a thousand ways by the conflicting
streams of narrow passion amongst which it moves. Mere exhaustion and a general feeling of
insecurity cannot yield a sufficient motive and directing force for the work of international
construction. It is necessary to rationalize this instinct of self-preservation and co-operation,
in order to make it of effective service. Here lies the heart of our difficulty. War is the
most intensely derationalizing process, and the long steeping of European civilization in the
boiling cauldron will have twisted and blunted the very instruments of thought. As Professor
Murray points out in a powerful essay, war rapidly undoes the slow secular process by which
liberty and capacity for individual thought have grown up, and plunges the personal judgement
into the common trough of the herd-mind. It is, I take it, the recognition of this peril to
the human mind, this necessity of safeguarding the powers of individual thought and personal
responsibility, that brings us here. We seek to fortify the separate centres of personal judgement,
to inform the individual mind, because the work of making a positive contribution to the unity
of civilization depends upon the vigorous independent functioning of many minds.

This consideration brings me directly to confront the enemy, that is to say, those who contend
that a world-state or any real international government is now and must always remain an impossibility,
an unrealizable Utopian dream. The process of social evolution on its political side ends with
the national state. It is a final product. National states cannot, will not, and ought not,
to abate one jot or tittle of their inherent sovereignty and independence, and the experience
of history shows that all attempts at international federation or union are pre-doomed to failure.

It is evidently quite impossible for me to present here a full formal refutation of these positions.
I will therefore content myself with brief demurrers. To the argument from social evolution
I would reply that evolution knows no finality of type, and that the presumption lies in favour
of those who hold that the centripetal or co-operative powers, which have forged the national
state out of the smaller social unities, are not exhausted, but are capable of carrying the
organizing process further. To those who rely upon the authority of history, citing the collapse
of the experiments in federation which followed the Congress of Vienna as proof that similar
experiments will similarly fail to-day or to-morrow, I reply that this view is based on a false
interpretation of the statement that 'history repeats itself'. A psychological or sociological
experiment is not the same when fundamental changes have taken place in the psychical and social
conditions. We have already recognized that the nineteenth century has seen a series of vital
changes in the economic and spiritual structure of civilization. The evidence of 1815 cannot,
therefore, be conclusive as regards the possibilities of 1915. To those who insist on the sovereignty
and independence of the national state as an eternal verity, I will make no further reply than
to say that such language has for me no more meaning than talk of 'the divine right of kings',
'the natural rights of man', or any other phrase of the abracadabra of metaphysical politics.
The actual world in which we live knows no such absolutes. Sovereignty and independence, like
all other legal claims, are subject to modification and compromise. Every bargain made by treaty
or agreement with another state, every acceptance of international law or custom, involves
some real diminution of sovereign independence, unless indeed the liberty to break all treaties
and to violate all laws is expressly reserved as an inalienable right of nations. Moreover,
within the limits of a single nation, sovereignty is itself divided and distributed. Alike
in the United States of America, the Swiss Republic, and the German Empire, the constituent
states as well as the nations are recognized as sovereign, possessing certain rights or powers
safeguarded by the constitution against all encroachments of the central or federal government.
So again within the state itself, the sovereignty is often no longer concentrated in a single
person or a single body of persons, but is exercised by the joint action of several organs,
as in Great Britain, where the king and the Houses of Parliament are the joint administrators
of the sovereignty of the state. Sovereignty thus becomes more and more a question of degree
and of adjustment. International lawyers will doubtless insist that neither treaties nor international
laws involve any derogation of sovereign powers. But when the substantial liberties of action
are curtailed by any binding agreement, the unimpaired sovereignty is an idle abstraction.

When, therefore, we ask whether it is not possible to extend and consolidate the agreements
between so-called sovereign states into some form of effective international government, we
broach a proposition less revolutionary in substance than in sound. If all the separate treaties,
conventions, and other agreements, existing now between pairs of nations for the performance
of specific acts and the settlement of differences, were modified and gathered into the forms
of general treaties signed by all the treaty-making states; if all international laws and usages
were codified and brought under the surveillance of some single representative court or council,--we
should discover that there existed already the substance of an international government, not
indeed adequate to our needs, but far ampler than we had suspected. In the Hague conventions
and courts, again, and in certain other intergovernmental instruments, such as the Postal and
Telegraphic Bureaux at Berne, we already possess the nucleus of the general forms required.
We possess already the beginnings alike of the legislative, judicial, and administrative apparatus
of international government. But it is slight in substance, fragmentary in its application,
and exceedingly imperfect in its sanctions. Moreover, it has just shown itself quite inadequate
to perform the first function of a government, viz. to keep the public peace.

The task of converting so feeble a structure of government into an effective instrument of
international peace and progress is evidently one of great magnitude and difficulty. But it
is the task which lies persistently before us, and upon its performance the safety of civilization
itself depends. It is, therefore, well not to exaggerate its difficulties, but to measure them
as closely as we can. This can best be done by means of a brief survey of the principal lines
of advance which have been proposed. In this country, in America, in Holland, and elsewhere,
the air is thickening with schemes for obtaining better international relations after the war.
All of them have this, I think, in common, that they concern themselves primarily not with
ideal or practical plans for the general co-operation of nations in advancing the welfare of
the world, but with methods of preventing future wars and securing relief against the burden
of armaments. All agree that some general formal arrangements between nations must be substituted
for 'the clash of competing ambitions, of groupings and alliances and a precarious equipoise',
and that only by such stable agreement can disarmament be got and peace rendered secure. All
agree that the instrument of this international government must be a general treaty to which
a number of states must be parties and that the terms of this treaty must require them to submit
all forms of disputes to some pacific mode of settlement. Nearly all, moreover, accept the
distinction drawn between justiciable issues, relating to the application or interpretation
of laws or to the ascertainment of facts by means of legal evidence, which are suitable for
settlement by a judicial or arbitral process, and those which, not being capable of such settlement,
are better suited for a looser process of inquiry and conciliation.

But the proposals differ widely, both as regards the scope they assign to the work of preventing
war, and as regards the measures they advocate for securing the fulfilment of international
agreement. They may be grouped, I think, in three classes on an ascending scale of rigour.
The first class envisages a general treaty, by which the signatory states shall undertake to
submit all differences between them to processes of arbitration or conciliation conducted by
impartial courts or commissions, and to abstain from all acts of hostility during the progress
of such investigation. This principle has recently found an important expression in the treaties
signed last year by the United States with Great Britain and France, and other nations.

The efficacy of any such arrangement evidently depends upon two conditions, first, the confidence
of the signatory states that each and all will abide by their undertaking, and, secondly, the
uncovenanted condition that they will accept and carry into effect the awards or recommendations
of the arbitral and conciliation commissions. These proposals, however, furnish no sanctions
or guarantees other than those of conscience and public opinion for the due performance of
the treaty obligations, and make no attempt to bind the parties to an acceptance of the decision
of the commissions. Moreover, regarded as a means of securing world-peace and disarmament,
all such proposals appear defective in that they make no provision for disputes between one
or more of the signatory states and outside states which are no parties to the arrangement.

Such considerations have moved many to seek to strengthen the bond of the alliance, and to
make it available for mutual support against outside aggression. The vital issue here is one
of sanctions or the use of joint force, diplomatic, economic, or military, to compel the fulfilment
of treaty obligations and the execution of the awards. Many hold that, while most civilized
states might be relied upon to carry out their undertakings, some powerful state--Germany,
or Russia, or Japan--could not be trusted, and that this want of confidence would oblige all
nations to maintain large armaments with all their attendant risks and burdens. To obviate
this difficulty, it is proposed by some that the signatories shall pledge themselves to take
joint action, diplomatic, economic, or forcible, against any of their members who, in defiance
of the treaty obligations, makes or proposes an armed attack upon another member. This is the
measure of stiffening added by Mr. Lowes Dickinson in his constructive pamphlet After the War:
'The Powers entering into the arrangement' are to 'pledge themselves to assist, if necessary,
by their national forces, any member of the League who should be attacked before the dispute
provoking the attack has been submitted to arbitration or conciliation.' A state, however,
by Mr. Dickinson's scheme, is still to remain at liberty to refuse an award, and after the
prescribed period, even to make war for the enforcement of its demands. Other peace-leaguers
go somewhat further, assigning to the league an obligation to use economic or forcible pressure
for securing the acceptance of the award of the Court of Arbitration, though leaving the acceptance
of the recommendations of the Conciliation Court to the free option of the parties. This is
the proposal made by Mr. Raymond Unwin, and by the League of Peace.

Now a definite halt at this position is intelligible and defensible. While binding by strict
sanctions the States to submit all disputes to the pacific machinery that is provided, to await
the conclusion of the arbitral and conciliatory processes, and even to accept the legal awards
of arbitration, it leaves a complete formal freedom to refuse the recommendations of the Commission
of Conciliation. Yet it must be borne in mind that most of the really dangerous disputes, involving
likelihood of war, are not arbitrable in their nature, and will come before the Commission
of Conciliation. If no provision is made for enforcing the acceptance of the recommendations
of this body, what measure of real security for peace has been attained? An incendiary torch,
like that kindled last year in the Balkans, may once again put Europe in flames. The defenders
of the position we are now considering have three replies. They admit that their proposal still
leaves open the possibility of war, but they contend that if a sufficient cooling-off time
or 'moratorium' is secured, the likelihood of an ultimate recourse to war by rejection of the
award will be reduced to a minimum. They urge that no scheme which can be devised will preclude
the possibility of a strong criminal or reckless State violating its treaty obligations and
seeking to enforce its will by force. Finally they urge that many self-respecting States would
refuse to abandon the ultimate right of declaring war, in cases where they deemed their vital
interests were affected, and that any invitation to take this step might wreck the possibility
of a less complete but very valuable arrangement.

Now it would be a considerable advance towards world government, if all or most powerful States
would consent to abandon separate alliances, or subordinate them to a general alliance binding
them to submit all disputes to a process of impartial inquiry before attempting to enforce
their national will by arms. It may be that this is as far as it is possible to go in the direction
of securing world-peace and international co-operation in the early future. If States will
not carry their co-operation so far as to agree upon united action to put down all wars between
their members, and to take a united stand against all attacks from outside, it would be necessary
to respect their scruples, and to rely upon the softening influence of the moratorium and informed
public opinion to render a final recourse to arms unlikely among civilized States. But, in
considering the measure of security thus achieved, we must remember that we must look to the
weakest link in the chain of the alliance, and ask ourselves how far the plan of conciliation
represented in the recent treaties between the United States and several friendly European
nations can be considered equally secure in dealing with Germany, Russia, or Japan. If our
international arrangement is to dispense with all forcible pressure in the last resort, and
to rely upon purely moral pressure, it seems evident that the validity of the arrangement depends
upon the degree of confidence which other States will entertain as to the bona fides and pacific
disposition of the least scrupulous of the powerful signatory States. For if the opinion held
of any one or two powerful States is that under the stimulus of greed or ambition they would
be likely, in defiance of an award or of the public opinion of other States, to enforce their
will upon some weaker neighbour, such an opinion will keep alive so strong a feeling of insecurity
that no considerable reduction of military preparations will be possible.

In assessing the early value of all proposals for better international relations, the best
practical test is afforded by the question, 'Will the proposal lead nations to reduce their
armaments?' For it will be admitted that any settlement or international agreement, which leaves
the claims of militarism and navalism upon the vital and financial resources of the several
nations unimpaired, affords little hope of a pacific future. A return to the era of competing
armaments will destroy the moral strength of any formal international agreements, however specious.
The importance of this consideration has led many to insist that an explicit agreement for
proportional disarmament should take a prominent place in any settlement. This proposal, however,
seems to me defective in that it presumes in all or some of the nations a persistence of the
motives which have hitherto led them to strengthen their fighting forces. Now the primary object
of such international arrangements as we are discussing, is to bring about a state of things
in which the past motives to arm will weaken and tend to disappear. If nations, actuated either
by arrogance or greed or fear, continue to desire to increase their fighting strength, no arrangements
for proportionate disarmament are likely to be effective. On the other hand, if the basis of
a really valid league or federation can be laid, precluding the most ambitious State from any
reasonable hope of indulging dreams of successful conquest, while relieving timid States from
the apprehensions under which they have lived hitherto, the natural play of political forces
within each State will favour disarmament. An international arrangement that meets our requirements
must be strong enough to reverse the motives, aggressive and defensive, which in the past have
caused nations to arm. Nations will not pile up armaments if they believe that they will have
no need or opportunity to use them. To produce this belief in the uselessness of national armies
and navies is therefore a prime object of international policy. The successful establishment
of this belief involves, however, a change of disposition among national governments amounting
to the process known in religious circles as conversion. They must be induced to forgo that
right of war which according to past statecraft has been the brightest jewel in the crown of
sovereignty.

Thus we are again brought round to our vital issue, that of the amount and kind of cession
of sovereignty required for an effective International Government. It may be the case that
it will be impossible to induce a sufficient number of the great States to transfer the ultimate
right of waging war to a representative International Government, or to cede to such a Government
the right to legislate on international relations with power to enforce obedience to these
laws. There are, however, many of us who hold that these powers are essential to an international
arrangement which shall effectively guarantee the peace of the world. The abandonment of the
sovereign right to make war is essential for the future security of peace. Legislative and
executive powers for an International Government are essential to obtain by pacific means those
changes in the political and economic relations of peoples which hitherto have only been attainable
by war. No merely statical settlement will suffice. Great new issues of national controversy
or of economic needs will certainly come up afresh for settlement, and until some stable method
of government is established with power to determine and enforce the equities and the utilities
they represent, recourse to the arbitrament of war will still be likely.

But granting that national government does not represent a final form of political structure,
and that some federal internationalism is now practicable, is it possible to hope or to expect
that by a single stride, or by a series of rapid strides, the sovereignty of national states
will submit to so much diminution as is involved in the more advanced scheme of international
government? Most historians, statesmen, and political philosophers will, I think, hold that
so large and rapid a process of development is impracticable, however desirable in theory it
might be. It will be necessary, they insist, to take one step at a time, to preserve as closely
as possible the principle of continuity, and not to attempt to move further and faster than
circumstances and the necessities of the time compel.

But do circumstances and necessities always compel us to move slowly and to take one step at
a time? Though normal growth is slow and continuous, modern science tends to lay increasing
stress upon discontinuous and sudden larger variations in the production of organic changes.
Biology distinguishes these mutations by which new species arise from the normal process of
evolution by insensible gradations. There is, as I understand it, no real breach of continuity,
no miraculous creation, but a sudden removal from a structural position which by slow accumulation
of prior changes had become unstable, or to a new position of stability, involving a swift
readjustment of organic parts. May not similarly important mutations occur in the evolution
of political institutions, when a similar stress of circumstances makes itself felt? Nay, we
may further ask, whether the special function of man's reasonable will is not to bring about
these changes in the direction of individual and collective conduct. The power of making new
quick and complex adaptations to new environments is the essential economy of the human brain.
Freedom of thought and of will are continually producing new judgements and new determinations
for action which contain this quality of sudden mutation. Quick conversions of thought and
will are of the essence of our conscious life. When they carry important consequences to our
conduct they appear to be, and in fact are, breaches of the normal conduct of our life which
proceeds by custom, repetition, and insensible modifications.

In politics, as in religion, sudden conversions under the stress of circumstances are not unknown,
and they may be genuine and lasting. And what holds of individual wills and judgements holds
also of the collective mind. That human nature in its fundaments of thought and feeling, its
primary needs, desires and emotions, will not be appreciably changed even by this shattering
experience of war must be conceded. But what we may call the general state of mind, or the
moral and intellectual atmosphere, will be profoundly affected. This will be in part the result
of the great economic and political disturbances which are occurring, and which will have undermined
and loosened the old ideas and valuations in relation to such important institutions as property,
the control of industry, the activities of woman, the party system, the State itself. But more
profound still will be the direct reaction of sorrow and suffering of war, the revelation of
the power of the organized destructiveness and cruelty, and of the inadequacy of reason, justice,
and goodwill as defences of civilization. The very foundations of organized religion in the
hearts of men will be shaken. The patent failure of the State to perform its primary function
of safeguarding life and property is likely to feed currents of revolutionism in every country.
The sudden changes produced in the balance of age and of sex by the destruction of so large
a proportion of the young and energetic men of every nation, will affect all processes of thought
and policy. Some of these changes will seem favourable to conservatism, timidity, and reaction.
Everywhere, at the close of the war, military and official autocracy will be enthroned in the
seats of power, and the spirit of political authority will be stoking the fires of fevered
nationalism which war evokes. But other forces will be making for bold political experiments.
Not only the fear of restive and impoverished workmen, who have recently acquired the use of
arms and perhaps the taste for risks, but the havoc wrought upon industry and commerce, and
above all the crushing burden of taxation, will dispose the controlling and possessing classes
to seek alternatives to a return to the era of competing alliances and armaments. Mild and
conservative measures will be obviously unavailing. During the years of exhaustion following
the war, resolute leaders of public opinion will be setting themselves everywhere to frame
schemes of international relations which shall yield adequate guarantees of peace. For the
first time in history great reading and thinking communities will give their chief attention
to international politics. They will recognize the urgency of the work of building the society
of nations upon a basis of genuinely representative government. Behind this reasonable process
of constructive thinking, carried on in every country by politically convinced individuals
and groups, will be the powerful support of the unthinking, suffering masses, motived by no
clear conception of causes or remedies, but by that collective instinct of self-preservation
which impels the herd to avoid destruction and to follow leaders who point the way to safety.

BOOKS FOR REFERENCE

The International Crisis in its Ethical and Psychological Aspects. Humphrey Milford.

G. Lowes Dickinson, After the War. Fifield.

C.E. Hooper, The Wider Outlook beyond the World-War. Watts & Co.

F.N. Keen, The World in Alliance. Southwood.

Norman Angell, Prussianism and its Destruction. Heinemann.

Allison Phillips, The Confederation of Europe. Longmans.

The New Statesman. Special Supplement. Suggestions for the Prevention of War.

J.A. Hobson, Towards International Government. Allen & Unwin.

XIII

RELIGION AS A UNIFYING INFLUENCE IN WESTERN CIVILIZATION

The argument of these essays has been to prove that even now, in the greatest armed conflict
of the world, the term 'Christendom' is not inapplicable to Europe. There is a real unity in
Western civilization--a unity due in large measure to the influence of religious faith and
organization. The mediaeval Church gave the Teutonic peoples of Northern Europe, and the barbarians
who overran the Roman Empire, their first momentous introduction into the great inheritance
formed by the uneasy blending of Christian faith and literature with Greco-Roman civilization.
The spiritual achievements of Greek and Roman, Jew and Christian have remained the common possessions
of the West, the foundation of what is still Christendom. In so far as it exists Christendom
witnesses to the formative power of a religious faith: in so far as it remains a dream, we
may suspect it demands the renewed impulse of a faith enlightened and chastened by all the
experience of the past.

If, however, we ask, Is there any likelihood that a common religious faith and life will contribute
to raise Western civilization to a yet higher unity? modern as contrasted with mediaeval history
seems at first sight to demonstrate the futility of any such inquiry.

Since the Reformation, religion has made for division rather than co-operation. The modern
period of European history begins in disruption. Not only was Europe rent by the conflict of
Catholic and Protestant, but the dream of an international reformed Church which at one time
floated before the mind of Cranmer was dissipated by the strength of nationalism and the cleavage
in the ranks of the reformers themselves. In our own country, what is euphemistically termed
the Elizabethan Settlement proved to be the source of further dissension, and reform appeared
as the prolific mother of sects and schisms. The Protestant Churches were organized on national
and state lines. They ceased to retain any international character in their constitution, while
international intercourse became a diminishing influence. The Church of Rome in the conflict
with Gallicanism found herself at grips with the spirit of nationalism, and to-day the strength
of national feeling within Roman Catholicism hinders the Pope from exerting a moral authority
over sovereign states that would parallel the judicial functions successfully asserted by Innocent
III. No Christian Church to-day so rises above the national states of Europe, as to control
or even adequately to criticize the claims of those states. The Churches no longer serve to
embody and express an European conscience.

The break-up of a common ecclesiastical organization was not perhaps the most serious loss
of unifying power which religion in the West suffered at the time of the Reformation. If it
be true that the Bible and the Greek spirit are the great common factors of Western civilization,
then we must recognize that these two great influences tended to fall apart and even to oppose
each other in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. The humanist element in the Reform-movement
grew less and less, while humanism itself became more definitely secular. The European mind
has ever since been conscious of a disturbing division between religion and culture. A development
of religion which should render to Western civilization services comparable to those rendered
by the mediaeval Church demands not only a heightened international consciousness among Christians,
which shall be able to find organized expression, but also some fresh synthesis of religion
and culture, some reunion of the spirit of Hellas, the Greek delight in beauty and faith in
reason, with the moral strength and religious insight of Hebrew prophecy.

Those who are concerned for the future of our civilization will look eagerly for signs of any
such development in the religious life and thought of our time. Do recent history and present
experience discover any influences at work which may yet restore a unifying power to religion?
Naturally any answer to such a question will be of a subjective character. The personal equation
cannot easily be eliminated; we may be duped by our hopes or deceived by our fears. In the
last analysis we cannot safely predict the future of religion. We may, however, take stock
of our present situation, and survey its significant elements, even if our value-judgements
as to their relative importance will inevitably vary.

While religious divisions have not vanished from the West, and indeed show no prospect of immediate
reconciliation, and while the formation of new sects, of which the Christian Science Movement
offers an example, has not altogether ceased, there has been an admitted decline of the dogmatic
and sectarian tempers, and this decline has opened the way for knitting up severed friendships.
The revolt against the dogmatic attitude of mind and even against religious dogma itself is
widespread. The sense of loss involved in the isolation of any sect, and the wish to pass beyond
the limits of any denominational tradition, are both appreciably affecting the religious situation.
In England Matthew Arnold's somewhat unhappy criticism of Dissent expressed a dislike both
of dogma and sectarian narrowness. His profounder contribution to the better understanding
of St. Paul derives its worth precisely from his elevation of the mystic and the saint in Paul
at the expense of the doctrinal theologian of Calvinist tradition. The wish to be rid of dogma
continues to find vigorous intellectual expression, of which Mr. Lowes Dickinson's Religion,
a Criticism and a Forecast, may be taken as an example. In another direction the Brotherhood
Movement and the Adult School Movement represent the search, if not for an altogether undogmatic
faith, yet at least for a broader basis of association than is compatible with the insistence
on definite statements of belief. Both would unite in the prayer

    God send us men whose aim will be
    Not to defend some outworn creed,

and some members of both entertain the suspicion that all creeds are outworn.

This dislike of dogma may cloak an unwarranted scepticism as to the possibility of reaching
truth in religion, but it is symptomatic of the longing for larger sympathy and broader fellowship.
It is but the extreme expression of a temper which has reduced the angularity of those who
are very far from surrendering or belittling definite beliefs and doctrines. The denominationalist
who used to have no hesitation in claiming a monopoly of the truth for his particular Church,
now falters where he firmly stood. We are more ready to recognize our limitations. A growing
number of thoughtful minds appreciate Lord Acton's position when he wrote to Mary Gladstone:
'I scarcely venture to make points against the religion of other people, from a curious experience
that they have more to say than I know, and from a sense that it is safer to reserve censure
for one's own which one understands more intimately, having a share in responsibility and action.'
This more chastened mood opens the way to fresh understandings in the religious world. Whence
does this change in atmosphere originate?

In tracing out the causes of this new temper in religion, a first place may legitimately be
assigned to the growth of the scientific spirit. In considering science as a source of unity,
it is a mistake to dwell exclusively on the creation of a body of common knowledge. To know
the same thing may do little to unite men. To attack problems in the same way, and to share
the same spirit of free inquiry, the same reverence for fact, the same resolute endeavour to
surmount prejudice, issue in a far closer bond of union. Science unites men even more closely
by its spirit than by its achievement. The application of scientific method to the literary
and historical study of the Bible, as well as in the psychological analysis of religious experience,
has called into being in every Church and every land, groups of people who approach the subject-matter
of their faith from the same angle and under the guidance of the same mental discipline. As
a result of the critical movement a man finds his foes in his own and his friends in his neighbours'
ecclesiastical household. The study of religion renews international contact and requires international
co-operation as much as any other branch of science. It is possible to detect differing characteristics
in the scholarship of the leading nations, though it may be doubted whether these are fundamental
differences. The volume of critical work published in Germany is so considerable as to foster
the illusion that it constitutes a self-sufficing world. Thus it is possible for Dr. Schweitzer
in his brilliant survey of research into the life of Jesus, to represent the whole inquiry
as the work of German genius and as the endeavour of German liberalism to picture Jesus in
accordance with its own half-unconscious bias. Yet even so the cloven-hoof of international
interdependence makes its appearance, for he has to devote one unsympathetic chapter to Renan,
even if he contrives to ignore Seeley's Ecce Homo. But the debt of English scholarship to Germany
is undeniable, and must not be repudiated in war-time. Nor is the debt entirely on one side.
It is worth recalling that Adolph Harnack, perhaps the greatest living German scholar in the
realm of New Testament criticism and Church History, derived no little inspiration from the
work of Edwin Hatch. At any rate the acceptance of the critical method associates scholars
in all lands, produces International Congresses for the study of Religions, and fosters personal
friendships which even war will not destroy.

Beyond the internationalism of scholarship, we must remember the reaction of criticism on popular
religious thought. Slowly but surely the judgements of believers, lay and clerical, are being
permeated with some sense of historical perspective. The mere attempt to recognize the literary
character of the various books of the Bible has effected a liberation. The variation of the
different parts of the Bible in literary quality, in evidential value for history and in spiritual
significance, are at last being freely recognized outside the study and the lecture-room. Men
are ceasing to regard the Bible as a series of legal enactments or common-law precedents of
equal authority. This is leading to a revision of inherited traditions, that were based on
a view of the Bible which is no longer tenable. In general this development favours a more
modest assertion of one's own beliefs and a more charitable consideration of other people's.
When we continue to differ, we differ with a more sympathetic understanding of those from whom
we differ.

It is impossible to trace here in any detail the influence of the critical movement on traditional
beliefs or even on the conception of authority in religion. It may, however, be worth while
to point out that the psychological study of religion has tended to broaden sympathy by promoting
the frank recognition of the varieties of religious experience. More allowance is made for
temperament, and there is less anxiety to force all spiritual life into the same mould or scheme.
The sacramentalist and the non-sacramentalist, the mystic and the intellectualist, the man
of feeling and the man of action, those who experience sudden changes and those who are the
subjects of more gradual growth--each receives his due, and neither need despise the other.
There are dangers associated with our constant reference to temperament. It is really a condemnation
of a Church to say that its position appeals to a particular temperament, while it is often
no real kindness to an individual to be excused from attempting to enter into a particular
phase of religious life on the ground that he is temperamentally disqualified. But it is clearly
a gain to challenge an over-rigid standardization of religious life. It is pathetic to hear
people protest that they have no religious experience, when they are simply blinded by too
narrow an interpretation of the term. In so far as the psychology of religion throws into relief
the manifold appeal of religious ideas to different minds, it helps to create a new sense of
unity in difference.

Accompanying the growth of the scientific spirit and in part stimulated by it, more distinctly
religious and philosophical influences are at work quickening the desire for wider and deeper
fellowship. Considering first the problem within the borders of the Christian Church, I think
we may claim that there is a growing willingness to co-operate and a revival of the hope of
reunion. We may further claim that certain advances in thought, in the understanding of Christianity
itself, have already been made, and render co-operation if not reunion less Utopian than before.
Of these I would put first the acceptance of the principle of toleration as an essential element
of Christian faith. It has been suggested by Mr. Norman Angell that the religious wars of the
seventeenth century came to an end through economic exhaustion and through rationalism. Toleration
was accepted as a state-principle on the strength of a common-sense calculation as to the uselessness
of repression. I am not disposed to ignore the forcefulness of the argument, 'You will starve
or go bankrupt, if you do not cease to persecute heretics or fight Protestants,' nor would
I underestimate the influence of common-sense in closing the era of religious wars, but I cannot
help thinking that an intense religious conviction of the duty of toleration and a kind of
philosophic liberalism, though entertained by few, contributed to the triumph of the principle.
For the Christian, the duty has become clearer through the influence of the gospels. Some of
the Churches have begun to take to heart the rebuke of Jesus to the disciples who wished to
call down fire on the Samaritans. Nor is it a question of a particular incident. A deep respect
for individuality is found to lie at the centre of the gospel. For the Christian, the attitude
of toleration, the reliance on persuasion, on the appeal to every man's conscience, has become
more and more clearly the indispensable qualification of the ambassador for Christ. As the
acceptance of the principle of toleration is by no means universal in the Church, its fuller
recognition in some quarters may serve at first to intensify division. It may emphasize, e.g.
the continued necessity for Protestantism, by bringing into clearer light the moral obstacle
to reunion in the Inquisition and disciplinary methods of the Church of Rome. But in the long
run, this development of thought must make for better understanding and wider fellowship.

Still confining our survey to the Christian Church, there has been a significant fastening
of attention on those parts of the New Testament in which the idea of Catholicity is fully
developed. The epistle to the Ephesians and the seventeenth chapter of John are beginning to
haunt the Christian consciousness as never before since the days of the Reformation. It is
clear that the present position of the Church, in which divisions have crystallized into separate
organizations, does not reflect and envisage the ideal that 'they all may be one'. The unity
of the Church appears to be a condition precedent to the success of its testimony. The scandal
and the impotence of division are more acutely felt. Unless the Church of Christ can heal herself
or find healing for herself, it is little enough which she will be able to contribute to the
healing of the nations.

There is hope then for closer fellowship within the Church, because the problem is being more
and more definitely laid upon the consciences of her members. A further advance in thought
which makes possible a closer approximation of the severed fragments of the Christian Church,
is to be found in the process of sifting the essential from the accidental in the Christian
tradition. It would be idle to pretend that the process has reached its conclusion, or that
there is any large measure of agreement as to what constitutes the essence of Christianity.
No one indeed believes any longer in the whole Bible from cover to cover--not even those who
say they do. The fight for the creeds is more strenuous, while Rome cannot afford to admit
that any article of faith which has been authoritatively defined may be treated as non-essential.
But if I may venture a personal judgement, I cannot see that even the Apostles' creed will
be able to retain its place as a summary of essential Christianity. The articles which deal
with the Descent into Hades and the Resurrection of the Body, and perhaps those which deal
with the Virgin-Birth and Ascension of our Lord, are dubious, if not false, and cannot fairly
be regarded as indispensable. If I may attempt to forecast, I would say that the ultimate cleavage
is coming not over particular articles of the Apostles' Creed, but over the value we set on
the history and person of Jesus. The choice will lie between a conception of God for which
the story and character of Jesus are final and determinative, and a vaguer spiritual theism
for which Jesus has no supreme significance. This is not even the division between Trinitarian
and Unitarian. The ultimate parting of the ways turns on the question whether a man's faith
in God is Christ-centred or not. The significant cleavage of the future will come between those
who believe that Christianity--the belief in the Fatherhood of God through Jesus Christ--is
the final religion, and those who hold that Christianity in this sense is destined to be swallowed
up in some still broader faith in God for which other revelations, through nature and through
other figures in history, are as significant as the creed embodied in a tale in Galilee and
on Golgotha nineteen centuries ago. But whatever cleavage may appear hereafter in the religion
of the West, the search for the essence of Christianity, even when it works through controversy,
will contribute to lop off idle dissensions and reveal fellowship in fundamentals where men
had previously supposed themselves to be hopelessly divided.

It is a little invidious to choose out any particular movements for special reference, and
in so doing I may merely betray personal bias rather than critical judgement. Yet it is perhaps
permissible to point out that the genesis of the Adult School movement is the natural development
of the Quaker respect for that of God in every man. It represents the longing for a religious
fellowship which does not force opinion but offers the most favourable conditions for the formation
of independent judgement and the growth of individual faith. How far the movement realizes
its ideal, I forbear to inquire, but its very existence affords some evidence of the belief
in the positive virtue of toleration as an essential element of the Christian character. Another
powerful factor making for co-operation and better understanding among Christians may be found
in the Student Christian movement. For this country its value has been enhanced if not created
by the opening of the older Universities to Nonconformists. The future leaders of all our Churches
are now being educated together, and through the Student Christian movement, they are educating
each other and facing together old controversies and inherited problems at a time when their
judgements are least hampered either by tradition or responsibility. What this may mean for
the religious life of this country, we cannot yet tell, but it is certain that a new temper
will be brought to bear on our divisions. The men who learn to appreciate one another through
this association, tend to hold together when they pass out of the Universities into their life-work.
There are springing up through the Student movement new associations or fellowships which conserve
and continue the unifying impetus of the movement itself. Nor is that unifying power confined
to this country. It forms a world-wide federation whose lines of communication have not been
cut even by the present war. In every land, the Student movement intends to resume international
intercourse at the earliest possible moment. I think it is not simply the bias of a student
in favour of his own class, which makes me regard the Student Christian movement as one of
the most hopeful developments in the religious life of our age.

Perhaps the influence of this movement itself may be traced in the growing demand for co-operation
in the missionary task of the Church. This demand has no doubt arisen in part through the changes
in the means of transport and communication which have made the world a smaller place. Missionary
effort is less sporadic than it was. The Churches are developing a Weltpolitik. The exact proportions
of the task before them are now more clearly grasped. The difficulty of overtaking the task
even when united, and the impossibility of discharging it effectively while divided are also
more apparent. But the demand for unity and the power of co-operation have also been strengthened
by the men and women who have gone abroad under the influence of the Student Volunteer Missionary
Union. High Churchmen and Nonconformist having learnt to work together on a Christian Student
executive do not find it difficult to co-operate, where opportunity offers, in India or China.
A half-involuntary revolution of sentiment is proceeding under our eyes. The strength of the
new spirit of co-operation was revealed in the Edinburgh Conference of 1910. That date will
stand out as supremely significant in the growth of a new Catholicism in the West.

We have so far been concerned with influences making for a deeper sense of unity within the
Christian Church. But if we attempt a wider survey, we shall discover that religious thought
and feeling in the West, whether definitely Christian or no, possess some common characteristics,
bear the impress of convictions which are ever struggling for expression.

First among these characteristic features of religious thought in the West I would place faith
in the solidarity of mankind. The origin of this faith probably passes beyond our analysis.
I should suspect that there is a universal impulse stimulating this belief which I should be
inclined to regard as instinctive. Yet it has certainly found fuller expression in the West
than in the civilization of India or China. It is possible to point to traditions, to philosophies,
and to particular events which have carried this faith in human solidarity deep into the consciousness
of the West. Dr. Prichard, whose scientific labours, we were told in an earlier lecture, refuted
the heresy of polygenism, was moved to undertake his inquiries by a desire to maintain the
accuracy of the Mosaic tradition as to the common origin of mankind. It is a little curious
to reflect that illusory anthropology, accepted on the authority of Moses and of Rousseau,
the belief in Adam, and the belief in the free and happy savage, have perhaps done more than
scientific research into primitive culture to maintain our faith in human brotherhood and equality.
We must not, however, attach too much weight to the story of Adam. The Western sense of the
dignity of ordinary manhood owes much more to the great Stoic conception of humanity, as Mr.
Barker reminded us in his lecture on the Middle Ages. Perhaps even more significant is the
feeling for humanity engendered by regarding all men as the objects of a common redemption.
The poorest of men have been protected from their fellows where they have been recognized as
brothers for whom Christ died. It would be worth while, if one had the time and the knowledge,
to follow the growth of this sentiment in modern times, to trace the influence of the doctrine
of Natural Rights, of the French Revolution, of the philosophy of Comte, and of the Evangelical
Revival, upon its development. But whatever the sources and phases of its growth, the existence
and strength of this faith in humanity are undeniable. It is this faith which compels us to
refuse to think of Western civilization as merely Western. For we believe that the West holds
in trust for mankind, not only a right knowledge of nature, not only a correct scientific method,
but also an essential conception of the worth and unity of human life. Whatever we are to gain
from the East, this is one of the gifts we bring to the other half of the world.

In speaking of this faith in human solidarity as Western, I am aware that I am making broad
statements which badly need qualification. I am far from wishing to suggest that there is no
such sentiment of humanity in the great structures of Asiatic civilization, particularly in
the ethical systems of China. But I am persuaded that there is a broad contrast between West
and East in this respect, and that in particular there is a significant gulf between the West
and Hinduism. In the West, this often inarticulate faith in humanity has acted as a spring
of progress. It inspires our faith in democracy, it acts as a perpetual challenge to privilege
and oppression, as a constant denial of permanence to divisions of class, nationality, and
race. The very difficulty which the orthodox Hindu experiences in appreciating the spiritual
meaning of democracy--his feeling that the democratic movement is an irrational blindly selfish
confusing of a divine appointed social order--discloses the existence of this gulf. It is not
for nothing that the religious traditions of Hinduism trace the four castes back to divine
appointment and regard them as coeval with the race. Nor is it without significance that India
rejected Buddhism--a movement which challenged caste and whose missionary enthusiasm embodied
a broader sentiment of humanity than has yet been woven into Indian civilization. The influence
of the West is now renewing the attack on caste which Buddha initiated and failed to accomplish.

Without serious injustice we may claim that this faith in human solidarity has attained clearer
expression and exerts greater influence in the West than in the East. To detail its influence
is impossible. It underlies our hopes of social reform, it refuses to believe in the subhuman--at
least it refuses to believe in the necessity of his continued existence. It inspires the religious
enthusiasm with which men embrace Socialism as 'a hope for mankind'. It turns the brotherhood
of man into a 'masked word.' As a character in one of St. John Ervine's novels puts it, 'Brother'ood
of man, my boy--that's my motter. Brother'ood of man! the 'ole world, see! Not a little bit
like England! the 'ole world! all of us! see? No fightin or nothink! Just peace an' 'appiness!
Takes your breath away when you think on it. It do, straight.' The same religious impulse is
at work in that disease of humanitarianism which distresses Chauvinists--the humanitarianism
which Bernhardi denounces in Germany and Mr. Moreton Fullerton deplores in France. It is reflected
in the religious life alike of Russia and of France. Paul Sabatier's book is largely concerned
with following out the influence of this sense of solidarity in all philosophic and religious
schools and in all classes in France. He notes, for example, the anti-clericalism of the French
peasant, which does not, however, lead him to embrace the dogmatic negations of Free-thought.
The peasant still clings to the rites of the Church through 'the perhaps unconscious desire
to perform an act of social solidarity, to meet our fellow-men elsewhere than on the field
of material interests and distractions, to accept the rendezvous which they offer to us and
we to them, that we may draw together and, more than that--unite and unify'. In another quarter
we may witness a new feeling for humanity resulting from the throwing together of diverse racial
elements in the melting-pot of the United States. Zangwill's play might be cited as a document
of this larger faith, while Jane Addams has sympathetically described its genesis in her Newer
Ideals of Peace. Yet another expression of this instinctive faith may be discovered in the
broad human interest of much of our modern literature and art. For the standard of orthodoxy
in this connexion requires not only that we respond to a grand conception of humanity as a
whole, but that also in particulars we are loyal to the Terentian tag, 'Homo sum: humani nil
a me alienum puto.' The worthier side of modern realism has done full justice to this motto.

The expressions of this faith in human solidarity are so various, and its influence so pervading,
that it is not surprising to find some modern thinkers looking to it as the essence of religion.
In the sociological theory of religion, it is suggested that to become aware of society and
its claims constitutes religion itself. A man is converted when his soul is 'congregationalized'.
There is even a tendency to find the highest element in religious experience in a strong feeling
of one's unity with one's fellows. Such a feeling of endless sympathy and tolerance is so large
a part of love that it is easily mistaken for the whole. For this starting-point, we might
readily imagine a Western faith in humanity with Walt Whitman as its prophet. But a second
characteristic of Western thought about religion forbids any idealization of humanity as we
know it, and draws us beyond the indiscriminate catholicism of 'The Open Road'. This characteristic
may be defined as our faith in the worth of activity and in the reality of progress. We believe
in the unity of mankind much more as a task to be achieved than as an accomplished or given
fact to be enjoyed. Nietzsche says somewhere, 'if the goal of humanity be wanting, do we not
lack humanity itself?' We look for the ultimate unity of mankind in the pursuit of a common
end. The search for such a goal, and the effort to achieve it, lend worth to history and to
present action.

This faith, often blind and unreasoned, is distinctly Western and modern. We do not derive
it even from Greece. It comes to us through Christianity and modern science. The absence of
any such faith in activity and progress creates the pessimism of the East. Hinduism and Buddhism
are alike in their bankruptcy on this side. The majestic religious philosophy of India sees
in history only an endless and meaningless repetition. Thucydides and Plato assume the same
view, if I mistake not. As Eucken says, 'Ancient views of life bore throughout an unhistorical
character. The numerous philosophical doctrines of the procession of endless similar cycles,
which continually return to the starting-point, were only the expression of the conviction
that all movement at bottom brings nothing new and that life offers no prospect of further
improvement.' When Paul discovered that the law was a schoolmaster to bring men to Christ,
he enunciated a profounder philosophy of history than Plato ever knew.

The very fact that Christianity sprang out of Judaism means that it enshrines and suggests
the idea of progress in the very circumstances of its origin. But its hold on the idea is something
deeper than its connexion with Judaism. Christianity claims to be the final religion, but its
claim differs in kind from the parallel claim of Mohammedanism. The world of Islam is held
in mortmain by the prophet. It cannot advance beyond the forms in which he embodied his message
without denying the claims he made for himself. But to the early Christians the synoptic gospels
were the record of all that Jesus began to do and to say, while the highest development of
Christian experience and reflection in the New Testament, the gospel of John, contemplates
the greater things which the followers of Jesus shall accomplish and the fuller revelations
which shall come as the disciples are able to bear them. The claim of Christianity to finality
rests on its opening up endless possibilities of spiritual growth to mankind. To some of us
it seems that part of this fuller revelation has come through modern knowledge and discovery.
The faith in progress which Christians have often held falteringly and have sometimes denied,
appears to be confirmed and clarified by all that we are learning of creative evolution. In
any case, the influence of modern science has tended to produce a faith in progress in the
West--a faith which some regard as essentially different from the Christian view of the world
and history, but which for others seems more and more to coalesce with that earlier if in some
respects cruder Christian conviction. No doubt when the facts of evolution were held to point
to gradual and continuous development, they favoured a view of steady progress which was antagonistic
to the Christian belief in the sudden introduction of new elements into history. But the later
advances of evolutionary theory seem more akin to the early Christian attitude. The element
of apocalyptic is seen not to be so alien from nature as had been at first supposed.

However it arises and whatever form it takes, this faith in progress is characteristic of the
Western outlook, and gives a positive answer to the question, Is life worth living? That such
a faith is strange to India may be evidenced by the reception accorded to the poet Tagore in
India itself. Mr. Yeats gives us the judgement of a Bengali who said of Tagore, 'He is the
first among our saints who has not refused to live, but spoken out of Life itself, and that
is why we give him our love.' Now Tagore's genius is thoroughly Indian, but his originality
in this respect is due directly or indirectly to contact with the influence of the West. It
is our belief in action and in the worth of human achievement which is voiced in his poems
and in his philosophy, and the note is new in India.

Illustrations of this belief in progress and activity are superfluous, though I may remind
you of the prevalence of this temper in the realm of philosophy as well as of religion at the
present time. Perhaps it is worth recalling that Harnack's great history of dogma ends with
this significant sentence from Zwingli: 'It is not the part of a Christian man to be for ever
talking grandly about dogma, but always to be attempting big things in fellowship with God.'
This represents as well as anything our Western insistence on the worth of effort. As an admirable
embodiment at once of the faith in humanity and the faith in progress, the close of Matthew
Arnold's poem 'Rugby Chapel' recurs to the mind. You remember how he conceives the function
of great men to lie in preserving the union of mankind, and how he conceives the life of mankind
as a journey towards a city that hath foundations.

These two characteristics, faith in the oneness of mankind and in the reality of progress,
do add a sense of common aspiration to the civilization of the West. But of themselves they
do not create a very close unity. Men may believe in human solidarity and in the worth of effort,
and yet be following divergent ideals and divisive enthusiasms. These beliefs are surrounded
by haze and indefiniteness. In themselves they scarcely constitute a religion that will satisfy,
much less one that can effectively unite us. However fully we share them, they will not enable
us to meet and surmount the present crisis. So far as I can judge, these vaguer beliefs in
humanity and progress are largely the deposit of Christian faith, and to be rendered effective
they need to be ever reconnected with the central elements in that faith; in particular, with
the Christian judgement on sin and with the Christian devotion to the historic Jesus.

The sense of sin has received a peculiar impress in the West. We owe it largely to the religious
experience of the Jew and to the seriousness of the Latin mind. There is a curious coincidence
of the seventh chapter of Romans with a famous quotation from Ovid. The Latin fathers, particularly
Augustine, have developed, not to say over-developed, the analysis of sin. The concept of sin
never had the same significance for the Greek, and humanism has always resented the severity
of the tradition that comes from Paul through Augustine and Calvin. Mr. Holmes's stimulating
books on education are inspired by a theological polemic against the doctrine of original sin.
He not unnaturally takes refuge in Buddhism, for Buddhism makes suffering, not sin, the root
trouble of human life. 'The division between the will and the power, the struggle of the senses
against our better judgement, the falling below the moral ideal--none of all this comes within
the horizon of Buddha.' Now it may freely be confessed that the Calvinist view of sin led to
a distrust of human nature, and incidentally of child-nature, which had a not altogether healthy
reaction on home discipline and school-life. It is very difficult to maintain the right balance,
and the danger of morbidity through emphasis on sin is undeniable. Yet it seems to me that
the worst errors of Calvinism and Evangelicalism in this regard have lain in a tendency to
theological formalism and a failure to keep in touch with real life. In consequence, those
who most deplore our waning sense of sin try us by a perverted or antiquated standard, and
fasten often on changes of sentiment and habit which are by no means necessarily or largely
sinful. They are least conscious of the want of a sense of sin, in modern society, where that
want is most serious. But I do not doubt that our often old-fashioned friends are right on
the main issue. I do not believe that we shall see the progress we desire, unless we recover
a heightened sense of sin. I hold with Lord Acton that our internal conflicts are due to indifference
to sin and not to a religious idea. We judge ourselves and our race too lightly. We quench
our hope of progress by a leniency and indulgence towards our failings which involve an underestimate
of our powers and responsibilities. The present crisis will not issue in a hopeful reaction
through regret but only through repentance.

The sense of sin which Christianity has brought to the West is not, I think, to be found elsewhere.
It only appears where men feel they have an assured knowledge of God's will. It is intense
only where men are conscious of God's presence. The vision of the Holiest reveals to Isaiah
that he is a man of unclean lips. Such a conviction of sin seems to me inexplicable apart from
contact with the living God. Two things are required to bring home to men a true estimate of
their moral failure, first a right standard of judgement, and, second, a conviction of the
reality of God. Is it too much to say that we are not likely to reach either, apart from Jesus
of Nazareth? 'It is through Jesus and not from Adam that we know sin.' It is through Him that
men discover their moral ideal and learn not simply to believe that there is a God, but to
say, O God, Thou art my God even for ever and ever.

Surely there is something providential in the resolute endeavour of the last century to get
back to Christ. The whole movement has succeeded in disentangling the authority of Christ from
that either of Moses or of Paul. We are almost where the disciples were when they saw no man
save Jesus only. Some things in the traditions remain obscure and baffling. But we see enough
to measure afresh our distance from Him. And when the peoples of Europe are thoroughly weary
of the work of destruction, it may be they will turn to Him again for the secret of rest, and
find that He alone can guide their feet into the way of peace.

BOOKS FOR REFERENCE

Sabatier, L'Orientation religieuse de la France actuelle. Armand Colin: Paris.

W.K.L. Clarke, Facing the Facts; or, an Englishman's Religion. Nisbet.

E.C. Moore, Christian Thought since Kant. Duckworth's Studies in Theology.

XIV

THE GROWTH OF HUMANITY

The preceding chapter has recalled attention to the need of deeper elements of unity in civilization
than can be afforded by any commercial, financial or political ties. Plans for a political
union of nations, common tendencies in social reform, even the essential unity of commerce
and science, will be of no avail, unless there is a basis in common sentiments of a religious
kind, in the consciousness that we are all members one of another and can only advance and
realize ourselves by the help and sympathy of other members of the same body. It is to this
point then that we will address ourselves in the concluding section of the subject. The mechanics
of unity need both earnest advocacy and careful study. But beneath and beyond them a motive
force has to be found in ideals and sentiments by which alone in the end the working of all
such mechanical arrangements is rendered possible. Right sentiments are not a sufficient safeguard,
but they are an essential foundation, and it is of the first importance to realize the things
to which the mass of mankind are most deeply attached, how they are affected towards one another,
the channels through which the tide of feeling most naturally flows and is extended. Looked
at from this point of view the problem becomes primarily an educational one. We study mankind
as we find it in order to effect an improvement in the direction which we desire.

We find then in the first place that men as a rule are most strongly attached to the localities
and the people with whom they are first brought closely in contact. Here in the family is the
first true microcosm, the first community in which the individual is developed by association
with his fellows. On the value of this earliest social training there are hardly two opinions,
and we need not dwell upon it. It is at the next stage that divergence, both of definite opinion
and still more of emphasis, begins to be apparent. How far is attachment to country a valuable
thing, how far should it be cultivated, what are the necessary limitations and controlling
ideas? As to the reality of the sentiment every man can examine himself. We know, most of us,
with what intense satisfaction we return to the country, the district, of our birth and home.
The feeling is one of the strongest and deepest things in us, even if our reason deprecates
and disallows the claim. As Englishmen, perhaps even more as Scotchmen and Irish, we love with
an indefinable and ineradicable passion our sea-coast, our hills and valleys, the fields and
cottages, even the sometimes sordid, nearly always ill-assorted, congeries of houses which
we have thrown together as towns. We fight among ourselves, we have more religious, political,
and social differences than any other people. Yet when we need companionship for work or pleasure,
at home or abroad, we would sooner have an Englishman at our side than any other man. Men and
country--'dear souls and dear, dear land'--these are the elements which make up the real thing
called patriotism and which, in spite of all our curses and all our self-seeking, lead us in
millions to work or die for our country, and will, while life lasts, bring us home at last.

To those who know the local narrowness, the jealousies and pettiness of much of our own national
life, it will seem a primary duty in education to present the country as an object of education
and service, imperfect indeed and limited by larger ends, but yet supreme over the selfish
interests of trade, town, or individual. This, with all its terrible losses, the war is doing
for us with mighty and irresistible strokes, and it is a tragic truth that in our present imperfect
social state, it is only a war, hurling us against other great and really co-operating communities
of men, which can make us bear with comparative ease and cheerfulness the most serious burdens
of loss and suffering. We act instantly as one people in war, we haggle and hesitate about
the most moderate sacrifices to secure an advance in peace. It is this quality in patriotism,
and in war as its stimulus, which largely and naturally biases our view. But to the ideal of
a united Western civilization or a united mankind it is only one step. We cannot do without
patriotism, but we must immediately proceed beyond it. We cannot reform the troubles and conflicts
of mankind by attempting to root up some of our most tenacious passions; we progress by mastering
and not mutilating our being. We have to advance beyond the limits of patriotism by wider sympathy,
by seeing analogies, by recognizing the facts of common interests and co-operation in the world.

But here again, looking at the question from an educational rather than an abstract point of
view, we have to recognize that actual realization of the life and services of other nations
is a slow, difficult, and, at best, a limited process. It was really easier for the travelling
student of the Middle Ages to enter into the simple and similar life of universities abroad
than for the modern traveller to grasp the complex relations of a great foreign city or state.
We have therefore, in practice, to select and concentrate. For the modern Englishman a knowledge
of one or two other countries and languages is as much as the pressure of life will permit,
and it is greatly to be regretted that poverty and hard work limit even this acquisition to
very few. A Wanderjahr for the working-man would do much to cement the unity of western civilization.

Until the recent acute rivalry with Germany developed, English sympathies were fairly evenly
divided. Your Liberal, as a rule, was a Frenchman, and your Conservative a German. George Meredith
and John Morley sang the praises of France, Coleridge and Carlyle would have us learn from
Germany. Now for many years the die is cast. We shall face the settlement and the dangers of
the future side by side with France.

This becomes, then, one of the fixed points in our orientation. History and geography both
dictate it. Just as in the building of our fatherland and its attendant sentiments, the process
is not a purely logical one, but comes to its completion by most irregular courses, with all
sorts of bypaths due to the odd configuration of our nature and the world we live in, so in
widening out from patriotism to humanity we have to follow a line given, for the most part,
by external facts. The French as our nearest neighbours have always had a special interest
for us. They, like ourselves, have inherited a mixed race and a mixed civilization, partly
Teutonic, partly Celtic, partly Roman, but with elements variously combined. To us a more predominantly
Teutonic stock and an insular position have given a more independent and unique character,
history, and constitution. France, as being continental and more central, was also more completely
Romanized, and has at all periods of her history been more in touch with the general stream
of thought than ourselves. Often she has led it, always she has reflected it more quickly and
perfectly. Our traditional rivalry has been a chivalrous one, marked by many episodes of real
admiration and close friendship. To Elizabeth, to Cromwell, to the Crusaders of the twelfth
and the philosophers of the eighteenth century, France and England seemed as naturally allied
as they are now in repelling a common aggression on their homes and liberty. But for the future
the strongest links will be the two great common ideals, self-government and individual freedom
at home, and the community of free peoples abroad. In the practical democracy already realized
at home, and in the ideal of a humanity built up of such self-governing and co-operating states,
France and England stand for the unity of western civilization in the sense in which it has
been traced in this volume, the only sense which makes it worth the sacrifice of wealth and
toil and life.

  ERRATUM.

  Page 305, line 14 from bottom

  for cannot it abolish read it cannot abolish

  Marvin: The Unity of Western Civilization.

[** Transcriber's Note: The text below was modified to reflect the ERRATUM above. The original
ERRATUM is left in the document for historical purposes. **]

The unity of which we believe ourselves to be now the champions must therefore be a real thing
based on freedom and realized by conscious effort; but it must also be truly comprehensive,
not exclusive of any willing co-operator, not aimed against any one but for the whole. It is
not intended in this volume to discuss any burning questions of the day, and therefore the
briefest indications must be given of how the nucleus of western culture has been formed and
how it must reform itself after the war. France, Germany, and England have been for many years,
collectively far the most important centres of science and social progress in the world, and
it would have been the ideal policy for them to give a united lead to the rest of the world.
The war has altered that, but it cannot abolish the fundamental facts on which the civilization
of the West is based, science, power over nature, and social organization. In these the same
three countries will still have a certain primacy, though the position of the United States
will be enormously strengthened. No peace can, of course, be permanent which contemplates the
excommunication of a leading member of the human family.

Italy in science, philosophy, and literature, is a worthy colleague, and Russia makes a great
stride forward by allying herself with the forces of progress and European unity.

Now it is clear that there are two distinct lines of approach to our goal of a united mankind.
We may cultivate for ourselves, as an ideal based on love and reason, the notion of all men
as brothers working together, helping one another even when unknown, strengthening one another's
powers, and gradually advancing towards a higher goal. This, though not a complete religion
for most people, at least partakes of the nature of religion. The other line is concerned with
the practical task of reconciling actual difficulties, bringing nations together for various
purposes--arbitration, international trade, boards of conciliation and the like. This is the
slow and thorny path, and on account of its very difficulty is apt to engross the thoughts
and energy of the best brains which devote themselves to the cause. But the first line, of
self-cultivation and the promotion of a favourable spirit among others, though open to any
one and easy of approach, is apt to be neglected. Such 'mere idealism', like pure benevolence,
runs some risk of being choked by the multiplicity of details and agencies and organizations
which beset the modern world. Humanity, as an idea, was perhaps more easily apprehended in
the days of Turgot and Condorcet than it is with us when the implements of a united mankind
have been immeasurably augmented and improved. All the greater, then, the need to re-integrate
the notion. Just as in science the dispersive effect of specialism has led many thinkers to
desire another order of minds specially devoted to generalism, to knitting together the results
of the detailed investigations of others, so in conduct, morals and politics, it is more and
more imperative to recall men's minds, and, in the first place, our own, to the large governing
ideas by which after all our lesser rules and objects must stand or fall. For who will dispute
that all our alliances and international action and the war itself can only be ultimately justified
if they are seen to serve the highest interests of mankind as a whole?

A volume, and a very valuable one, might be written on the evolution of this idea of Humanity
in history. We should need in the first place to analyse, with some care, in what sense it
is in each case used. There is the simple sense of brotherhood such as we know to be deeply
felt among our allies in Russia. Of this there must have been germs from the earliest appearance
of mankind upon earth. It is one of those most precious things which the development of wealth
and class and distinctive culture has tended to blunt in more elaborate civilizations. But
when we consider that the full conception of Humanity involves a knowledge of man's evolution,
his growth in power, and organization throughout history, as well as the simple but indispensable
sense of man's brotherhood, we shall see how long a road the Russian moujik--as well as multitudes
of his fellows in all other lands--must travel before he comes in view of the goal. In the
fuller sense of a self-conscious and developing being, the idea of Humanity first appears with
the Stoics, after the Greeks had put their leaven of abstract thought into the world. The whole
inhabited world as the City of Man was the Stoic ideal, and it embraced both the idea of the
[Greek: polis] which Platonic and Aristotelian thought had reached in the fourth century B.C.,
and the extension to the rest of mankind which was in the air just before the Christian era.
Christianity affected the conception in a twofold manner. On the one hand it limited it, for
the Stoic City of Man became the City of God, who was to be sought and worshipped in one prescribed
order. On the other hand it deepened it, for the springs of a common humanity were found to
go beneath the superficial facts of a citizen life into the depths of souls which have identical
relations with eternal things, with sin and suffering and hopes of the future.

It is not till after the outburst of science in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, after
that reawakening of the hopes of human powers which takes our minds back to the Greeks, that
we find the conception of Humanity appearing in something like the form in which we can now
imagine it. It will have been gathered from our chapter on Science and Philosophy how essential
is the growth of organized thought to the realization of any unity in a progressive world.
For the realm of thought is the only one in which no distinctions of race or nation are possible,
but it must be thought in which agreement is reached. So long as men can differ, as they still
do, on questions of human affairs, politics, social arrangements, or even archaeological matters
where race or national predominance is involved, so far science does not exert her unifying
sway. But in mathematics, physics, chemistry, all the matters in which it is impossible for
a man to take another view because he is a Frenchman or a German--here we reach a haven of
intellectual peace; and these calm waters are spreading over the world, in spite of the tempests.

