Some aspects of the original book had to be modified for all versions of this plain-text file.

Superscript letters are shown with ^: y^e, y^t.

Marginal quotation marks are shown inline as “ and ”, approximating the beginning and end of
the marked passage. In the original text, no quotation marks were printed inline.

Paragraphs are broken up for sidenotes, with blank lines before and after. Original paragraph
breaks are shown as two blank lines. Brackets within the body text are in the original.

All sidenotes except the one beginning “This noble Earle” were printed in italics; markup has
been omitted to reduce visual clutter.

At least four sizes of text were used, often in combination with italics. The variants are
shown here as:

  +‡very large‡+
  +larger+
  =smaller=

Further errors and anomalies are listed at the end of the text, along with those Euclid citations
identified by number.]

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

  THE ELEMENTS
  OF GEOMETRIE

  of the most auncient
  Philosopher
  EVCLIDE
  of Megara.

  Faithfully (now first) translated
  into the Englishe toung, by
  H. Billingsley, Citizen of London.

  Whereunto are annexed certaine
  Scholies, Annotations, and Inuentions,
  of the best Mathematiciens,
  both of time past, and
  in this our age.

  With a very fruitfull Præface made by M. I. Dee,
  specifying the chiefe Mathematicall Sciẽces, what they are,
  and wherunto commodious: where, also, are disclosed
  certaine new Secrets Mathematicall and Mechanicall,
  vntill these our daies, greatly missed.

  Imprinted at London by Iohn Daye.

❧ The Translator to the Reader.

There is (gentle Reader) nothing (the word of God onely set apart) which so much beautifieth
and adorneth the soule and minde of mã, as doth the knowledge of good artes and sciences: as
the knowledge of naturall and morall Philosophie. The one setteth before our eyes, the creatures
of God, both in the heauens aboue, and in the earth beneath: in which as in a glasse, we beholde
the exceding maiestie and wisedome of God, in adorning and beautifying them as we see: in geuing
vnto them such wonderfull and manifolde proprieties, and naturall workinges, and that so diuersly
and in such varietie: farther in maintaining and conseruing them continually, whereby to praise
and adore him, as by S. Paule we are taught. The other teacheth vs rules and preceptes of vertue,
how, in common life amongest men, we ought to walke vprightly: what dueties pertaine to our
selues, what pertaine to the gouernment or good order both of an housholde, and also of a citie
or common wealth. The reading likewise of histories, conduceth not a litle, to the adorning
of the soule & minde of man, a studie of all men cõmended: by it are seene and knowen the artes
and doinges of infinite wise men gone before vs. In histories are contained infinite examples
of heroicall vertues to be of vs followed, and horrible examples of vices to be of vs eschewed.
Many other artes also there are which beautifie the minde of man: but of all other none do
more garnishe & beautifie it, then those artes which are called Mathematicall. Unto the knowledge
of which no man can attaine, without the perfecte knowledge and instruction of the principles,
groundes, and Elementes of Geometrie. But perfectly to be instructed in them, requireth diligent
studie and reading of olde auncient authors. Amongest which, none for a beginner is to be preferred
before the most auncient Philosopher Euclide of Megara. For of all others he hath in a true
methode and iuste order, gathered together whatsoeuer any before him had of these Elementes
written: inuenting also and adding many thinges of his owne: wherby he hath in due forme accomplished
the arte: first geuing definitions, principles, & groundes, wherof he deduceth his Propositions
or conclusions, in such wonderfull wise, that that which goeth before, is of necessitie required
to the proufe of that which followeth. So that without the diligent studie of Euclides Elementes,
it is impossible to attaine vnto the perfecte knowledge of Geometrie, and consequently of any
of the other Mathematicall sciences. Wherefore considering the want & lacke of such good authors
hitherto in our Englishe tounge, lamenting also the negligence, and lacke of zeale to their
countrey in those of our nation, to whom God hath geuen both knowledge, & also abilitie to
translate into our tounge, and to publishe abroad such good authors, and bookes (the chiefe
instrumentes of all learninges): seing moreouer that many good wittes both of gentlemen and
of others of all degrees, much desirous and studious of these artes, and seeking for them as
much as they can, sparing no paines, and yet frustrate of their intent, by no meanes attaining
to that which they seeke: I haue for their sakes, with some charge & great trauaile, faithfully
translated into our vulgare toũge, & set abroad in Print, this booke of Euclide. Whereunto
I haue added easie and plaine declarations and examples by figures, of the definitions. In
which booke also ye shall in due place finde manifolde additions, Scholies, Annotations, and
Inuentions: which I haue gathered out of many of the most famous & chiefe Mathematiciẽs, both
of old time, and in our age: as by diligent reading it in course, ye shall well perceaue. The
fruite and gaine which I require for these my paines and trauaile, shall be nothing els, but
onely that thou gentle reader, will gratefully accept the same: and that thou mayest thereby
receaue some profite: and moreouer to excite and stirre vp others learned, to do the like,
& to take paines in that behalfe. By meanes wherof, our Englishe tounge shall no lesse be enriched
with good Authors, then are other straunge tounges: as the Dutch, French, Italian, and Spanishe:
in which are red all good authors in a maner, found amongest the Grekes or Latines. Which is
the chiefest cause, that amongest thẽ do florishe so many cunning and skilfull men, in the
inuentions of straunge and wonderfull thinges, as in these our daies we see there do. Which
fruite and gaine if I attaine vnto, it shall encourage me hereafter, in such like sort to translate,
and set abroad some other good authors, both pertaining to religion (as partly I haue already
done) and also pertaining to the Mathematicall Artes. Thus gentle reader farewell. (?¿)

    [Decoration]

  ❧ TO THE VNFAINED LOVERS
  of truthe, and constant Studentes of Noble
  Sciences, IOHN DEE of London, hartily
  wisheth grace from heauen, and most prosperous
  successe in all their honest attemptes and
  exercises.

Diuine Plato, the great Master of many worthy Philosophers, and the constant auoucher, and
pithy perswader of Vnum, Bonum, and Ens: in his Schole and Academie, sundry times (besides
his ordinary Scholers) was visited of a certaine kinde of men, allured by the noble fame of
Plato, and the great commendation of hys profound and profitable doctrine. But when such Hearers,
after long harkening to him, perceaued, that the drift of his discourses issued out, to conclude,
this Vnum, Bonum, and Ens, to be Spirituall, Infinite, Æternall, Omnipotent, &c. Nothyng beyng
alledged or expressed, How, worldly goods: how, worldly dignitie: how, health, Strẽgth or lustines
of body: nor yet the meanes, how a merueilous sensible and bodyly blysse and felicitie hereafter,
might be atteyned: Straightway, the fantasies of those hearers, were dampt: their opinion of
Plato, was clene chaunged: yea his doctrine was by them despised: and his schole, no more of
them visited. Which thing, his Scholer, Aristotle, narrowly cõsidering, founde the cause therof,
to be, “For that they had no forwarnyng and information, in generall,” whereto his doctrine
tended. For, so, might they haue had occasion, either to haue forborne his schole hauntyng:
(if they, then, had misliked his Scope and purpose) or constantly to haue continued therin:
to their full satisfaction: if such his finall scope & intent, had ben to their desire. Wherfore,
Aristotle, euer, after that, vsed in brief, to forewarne his owne Scholers and hearers, “both
of what matter, and also to what ende, he tooke in hand to speake, or teach.” While I consider
the diuerse trades of these two excellent Philosophers (and am most sure, both, that Plato
right well, otherwise could teach: and that Aristotle mought boldely, with his hearers, haue
dealt in like sorte as Plato did) I am in no little pang of perplexitie: Bycause, that, which
I mislike, is most easy for me to performe (and to haue Plato for my exãple.) And that, which
I know to be most commendable: and (in this first bringyng, into common handling, the Artes
Mathematicall) to be most necessary: is full of great difficultie and sundry daungers. Yet,
neither do I think it mete, for so straunge matter (as now is ment to be published) and to
so straunge an audience, to be bluntly, at first, put forth, without a peculiar Preface: Nor
(Imitatyng Aristotle) well can I hope, that accordyng to the amplenes and dignitie of the State
Mathematicall, I am able, either playnly to prescribe the materiall boundes: or precisely to
expresse the chief purposes, and most wonderfull applications therof. And though I am sure,
that such as did shrinke from Plato his schole, after they had perceiued his finall conclusion,
would in these thinges haue ben his most diligent hearers (so infinitely mought their desires,
in fine and at length, by our Artes Mathematicall be satisfied) yet, by this my Præface & forewarnyng,
Aswell all such, may (to their great behofe) the soner, hither be allured: as also the Pythagoricall,
and Platonicall perfect scholer, and the constant profound Philosopher, with more ease and
spede, may (like the Bee,) gather, hereby, both wax and hony.

    [The intent of this Preface.]

Wherfore, seyng I finde great occasion (for the causes alleged, and farder, in respect of my
Art Mathematike generall) to vse “a certaine forewarnyng and Præface, whose content shalbe,
that mighty, most plesaunt, and frutefull Mathematicall Tree, with his chief armes and second
(grifted) braunches: Both, what euery one is, and also, what commodity, in generall, is to
be looked for, aswell of griff as stocke: And forasmuch as this enterprise is so great, that,
to this our tyme, it neuer was (to my knowledge) by any achieued: And also it is most hard,
in these our drery dayes, to such rare and straunge Artes, to wyn due and common credit:” Neuertheles,
if, for my sincere endeuour to satisfie your honest expectation, you will but lend me your
thãkefull mynde a while: and, to such matter as, for this time, my penne (with spede) is hable
to deliuer, apply your eye or eare attentifely: perchaunce, at once, and for the first salutyng,
this Preface you will finde a lesson long enough. And either you will, for a second (by this)
be made much the apter: or shortly become, well hable your selues, of the lyons claw, to coniecture
his royall symmetrie, and farder propertie. Now then, gentle, my frendes, and countrey men,
Turne your eyes, and bend your myndes to that doctrine, which for our present purpose, my simple
talent is hable to yeld you.

All thinges which are, & haue beyng, are found vnder a triple diuersitie generall. For, either,
they are demed Supernaturall, Naturall, or, of a third being. Thinges Supernaturall, are immateriall,
simple, indiuisible, incorruptible, & vnchangeable. Things Naturall, are materiall, compounded,
diuisible, corruptible, and chaungeable. Thinges Supernaturall, are, of the minde onely, comprehended:
Things Naturall, of the sense exterior, ar hable to be perceiued. In thinges Naturall, probabilitie
and coniecture hath place: But in things Supernaturall, chief demõstration, & most sure Science
is to be had. By which properties & comparasons of these two, more easily may be described,
the state, condition, nature and property of those thinges, which, we before termed of a third
being: which, by a peculier name also, are called Thynges Mathematicall. For, these, beyng
(in a maner) middle, betwene thinges supernaturall and naturall: are not so absolute and excellent,
as thinges supernatural: Nor yet so base and grosse, as things naturall: But are thinges immateriall:
and neuerthelesse, by materiall things hable somewhat to be signified. And though their particular
Images, by Art, are aggregable and diuisible: yet the generall Formes, notwithstandyng, are
constant, vnchaungeable, vntrãsformable, and incorruptible. Neither of the sense, can they,
at any tyme, be perceiued or iudged. Nor yet, for all that, in the royall mynde of man, first
conceiued. But, surmountyng the imperfectiõ of coniecture, weenyng and opinion: and commyng
short of high intellectuall cõceptiõ, are the Mercurial fruite of Dianœticall discourse, in
perfect imagination subsistyng. A meruaylous newtralitie haue these thinges Mathematicall,
and also a straunge participatiõ betwene thinges supernaturall, immortall, intellectual, simple
and indiuisible: and thynges naturall, mortall, sensible, compounded and diuisible. Probabilitie
and sensible prose, may well serue in thinges naturall: and is commendable: In Mathematicall
reasoninges, a probable Argument, is nothyng regarded: nor yet the testimony of sense, any
whit credited: But onely a perfect demonstration, of truthes certaine, necessary, and inuincible:
vniuersally and necessaryly concluded: is allowed as sufficient for “an Argument exactly and
purely Mathematical.”

    [Note the worde, Vnit, to expresse the Greke Monas,
    & not Vnitie: as we haue all, commonly, till now, vsed.]

Of Mathematicall thinges, are two principall kindes: namely, Number, and Magnitude.

    [Number.]

Number, we define, to be, a certayne Mathematicall Sũme, of Vnits. And, an Vnit, is that thing
Mathematicall, Indiuisible, by participation of some likenes of whose property, any thing,
which is in deede, or is counted One, may resonably be called One. We account an Vnit, a thing
Mathematicall, though it be no Number, and also indiuisible: because, of it, materially, Number
doth consist: which, principally, is a thing Mathematicall.

    [Magnitude.]

Magnitude is a thing Mathematicall, by participation of some likenes of whose nature, any thing
is iudged long, broade, or thicke. “A thicke Magnitude we call a Solide, or a Body. What Magnitude
so euer, is Solide or Thicke, is also broade, & long. A broade magnitude, we call a Superficies
or a Plaine. Euery playne magnitude, hath also length. A long magnitude, we terme a Line. A
Line is neither thicke nor broade, but onely long: Euery certayne Line, hath two endes:

    [A point.]

The endes of a line, are Pointes called. A Point, is a thing Mathematicall, indiuisible, which
may haue a certayne determined situation.” If a Poynt moue from a determined situation, the
way wherein it moued, is also a Line: mathematically produced, whereupon, of the auncient Mathematiciens,

    [A Line.]

a Line is called the race or course of a Point. A Poynt we define, by the name of a thing Mathematicall:
though it be no Magnitude, and indiuisible: because it is the propre ende, and bound of a Line:
which is a true Magnitude.

    [Magnitude.]

And Magnitude we may define to be that thing Mathematicall, which is diuisible for euer, in
partes diuisible, long, broade or thicke. Therefore though a Poynt be no Magnitude, yet Terminatiuely,
we recken it a thing Mathematicall (as I sayd) by reason it is properly the end, and bound
of a line. Neither Number, nor Magnitude, haue any Materialitie. First, we will consider of
Number, and of the Science Mathematicall, to it appropriate, called Arithmetike: and afterward
of Magnitude, and his Science, called Geometrie. But that name contenteth me not: whereof a
word or two hereafter shall be sayd. How Immateriall and free from all matter, Number is, who
doth not perceaue? yea, who doth not wonderfully wõder at it? For, neither pure Element, nor
Aristoteles, Quinta Essentia, is hable to serue for Number, as his propre matter. Nor yet the
puritie and simplenes of Substance Spirituall or Angelicall, will be found propre enough thereto.
And therefore the great & godly Philosopher Anitius Boetius, sayd: Omnia quæcun[que] a primæua
rerum natura constructa sunt, Numerorum videntur ratione formata. Hoc enim fuit principale
in animo Conditoris Exemplar. That is: +All thinges (which from the very first originall being
of thinges, haue bene framed and made) do appeare to be Formed by the reason of Numbers. For
this was the principall example or patterne in the minde of the Creator.+ O comfortable allurement,
O rauishing perswasion, to deale with a Science, whose Subiect, is so Auncient, so pure, so
excellent, so surmounting all creatures, so vsed of the Almighty and incomprehensible wisdome
of the Creator, in the distinct creation of all creatures: in all their distinct partes, properties,
natures, and vertues, by order, and most absolute number, brought, from Nothing, to the Formalitie
of their being and state. By Numbers propertie therefore, of vs, by all possible meanes, (to
the perfection of the Science) learned, we may both winde and draw our selues into the inward
and deepe search and vew, of all creatures distinct vertues, natures, properties, and Formes:
And also, farder, arise, clime, ascend, and mount vp (with Speculatiue winges) in spirit, to
behold in the Glas of Creation, the Forme of Formes, the Exemplar Number of all thinges Numerable:
both visible and inuisible, mortall and immortall, Corporall and Spirituall. Part of this profound
and diuine Science, had Ioachim the Prophesier atteyned vnto: by Numbers Formall, Naturall,
and Rationall, forseyng, concludyng, and forshewyng great particular euents, long before their
comming. His bookes yet remainyng, hereof, are good profe: And the noble Earle of Mirandula,
(besides that,) a sufficient witnesse: that Ioachim, in his prophesies, proceded by no other
way, then by Numbers Formall. And this Earle hym selfe, in Rome,

    [Ano. 1488.]

* set vp 900. Conclusions, in all kinde of Sciences, openly to be disputed of: and among the
rest, in his Conclusions Mathematicall, (in the eleuenth Conclusion) hath in Latin, this English
sentence. By Numbers, a way is had, to the searchyng out, and vnderstandyng of euery thyng,
hable to be knowen. For the verifying of which Conclusion, I promise to aunswere to the 74.
Questions, vnder written, by the way of Numbers. Which Cõclusions, I omit here to rehearse:
aswell auoidyng superfluous prolixitie: as, bycause Ioannes Picus, workes, are commonly had.
But, in any case, I would wish that those Conclusions were red diligently, and perceiued of
such, as are earnest Obseruers and Considerers of the constant law of nũbers: which is planted
in thyngs Naturall and Supernaturall: and is prescribed to all Creatures, inuiolably to be
kept. For, so, besides many other thinges, in those Conclusions to be marked, it would apeare,
how sincerely, & within my boundes, I disclose the wonderfull mysteries, by numbers, to be
atteyned vnto.

Of my former wordes, easy it is to be gathered, that Number hath a treble state: One, in the
Creator: an other in euery Creature (in respect of his complete constitution:) and the third,
in Spirituall and Angelicall Myndes, and in the Soule of mã. In the first and third state,
Number, is termed Number Numbryng. But in all Creatures, otherwise, Number, is termed Nũber
Numbred. And in our Soule, Nũber beareth such a swaye, and hath such an affinitie therwith:
that some of the old Philosophers taught, Mans Soule, to be a Number mouyng it selfe. And in
dede, in vs, though it be a very Accident: yet such an Accident it is, that before all Creatures
it had perfect beyng, in the Creator, Sempiternally. Number Numbryng therfore, is the discretion
discerning, and distincting of thinges. But in God the Creator, This discretion, in the beginnyng,
produced orderly and distinctly all thinges. For his Numbryng, then, was his Creatyng of all
thinges. And his Continuall Numbryng, of all thinges, is the Conseruation of them in being:
And, where and when he will lacke an Vnit: there and then, that particular thyng shalbe Discreated.
Here I stay. But our Seuerallyng, distinctyng, and Numbryng, createth nothyng: but of Multitude
considered, maketh certaine and distinct determination. And albeit these thynges be waighty
and truthes of great importance, yet (by the infinite goodnes of the Almighty Ternarie,) Artificiall
Methods and easy wayes are made, by which the zelous Philosopher, may wyn nere this Riuerish
Ida, this Mountayne of Contemplation: and more then Contemplation. And also, though Number,
be a thyng so Immateriall, so diuine, and æternall: yet by degrees, by litle and litle, stretchyng
forth, and applying some likenes of it, as first, to thinges Spirituall: and then, bryngyng
it lower, to thynges sensibly perceiued: as of a momentanye sounde iterated: then to the least
thynges that may be seen, numerable: And at length, (most grossely,) to a multitude of any
corporall thynges seen, or felt: and so, of these grosse and sensible thynges, we are trayned
to learne a certaine Image or likenes of numbers: and to vse Arte in them to our pleasure and
proffit. So grosse is our conuersation, and dull is our apprehension: while mortall Sense,
in vs, ruleth the common wealth of our litle world. Hereby we say, Three Lyons, are three:
or a Ternarie. Three Egles, are three, or a Ternarie.

    [☞]

Which * Ternaries, are eche, the Vnion, knot, and Vniformitie, of three discrete and distinct
Vnits. That is, we may in eche Ternarie, thrise, seuerally pointe, and shew a part, One, One,
and One. Where, in Numbryng, we say One, two, Three. But how farre, these visible Ones, do
differre from our Indiuisible Vnits (in pure Arithmetike, principally considered) no man is
ignorant. Yet from these grosse and materiall thynges, may we be led vpward, by degrees, so,
informyng our rude Imagination, toward the cõceiuyng of Numbers, absolutely (:Not supposing,
nor admixtyng any thyng created, Corporall or Spirituall, to support, conteyne, or represent
those Numbers imagined:) that at length, we may be hable, to finde the number of our owne name,
gloriously exemplified and registred in the booke of the Trinitie most blessed and æternall.

But farder vnderstand, that vulgar Practisers, haue Numbers, otherwise, in sundry Considerations:
and extend their name farder, then to Numbers, whose least part is an Vnit. For the common
Logist, Reckenmaster, or Arithmeticien, in hys vsing of Numbers: of an Vnit, imagineth lesse
partes: and calleth them Fractions. As of an Vnit, he maketh an halfe, and thus noteth it,
½. and so of other, (infinitely diuerse) partes of an Vnit. Yea and farder, hath, Fractions
of Fractions. &c. And, forasmuch, as, Addition, Substraction, Multiplication, Diuision and
Extraction of Rotes, are the chief, and sufficient partes of Arithmetike:

    [Arithmetike.]

which is, the Science that demonstrateth the properties, of Numbers, and all operatiõs, in
numbers to be performed:

    [Note.]

“How often, therfore, these fiue sundry sortes of Operations, do, for the most part, of their
execution, differre from the fiue operations of like generall property and name, in our Whole
numbers practisable, So often, (for a more distinct doctrine) we, vulgarly account and name
it, an other kynde of Arithmetike.” And by this reason:

    [1.]

the Consideration, doctrine, and working, in whole numbers onely: where, of an Vnit, is no
lesse part to be allowed: is named (as it were) an Arithmetike by it selfe. And so of the Arithmetike
of Fractions.

    [2.]

In lyke sorte, the necessary, wonderfull and Secret doctrine of Proportion, and proportionalytie
hath purchased vnto it selfe a peculier maner of handlyng and workyng: and so may seme an other
forme of Arithmetike.

    [3.]

Moreouer, the Astronomers, for spede and more commodious calculation, haue deuised a peculier
maner of orderyng nũbers, about theyr circular motions, by Sexagenes, and Sexagesmes. By Signes,
Degrees and Minutes &c. which commonly is called the Arithmetike of Astronomical or Phisicall
Fractions. That, haue I briefly noted, by the name of Arithmetike Circular. Bycause it is also
vsed in circles, not Astronomicall. &c.

    [4.]

Practise hath led Numbers farder, and hath framed them, to take vpon them, the shew of Magnitudes
propertie: Which is Incommensurabilitie and Irrationalitie. (For in pure Arithmetike, an Vnit,
is the common Measure of all Numbers.) And, here, Nũbers are become, as Lynes, Playnes and
Solides: some tymes Rationall, some tymes Irrationall. And haue propre and peculier characters,
(as ²√. ³√. and so of other. Which is to signifie Rote Square, Rote Cubik: and so forth:) &
propre and peculier fashions in the fiue principall partes: Wherfore the practiser, estemeth
this, a diuerse Arithmetike from the other. Practise bryngeth in, here, diuerse compoundyng
of Numbers: as some tyme, two, three, foure (or more) Radicall nũbers, diuersly knit, by signes,
of More & Lesse: as thus ²√12 + ³√15. Or thus ⁴√19 + ³√12 - ²√2. &c. And some tyme with whole
numbers, or fractions of whole Number, amõg them: as 20 + ²√24. ³√16 + 33 - ²√10. ⁴√44 + 12¼
+ ³√9. And so, infinitely, may hap the varietie. After this: Both the one and the other hath
fractions incident: and so is this Arithmetike greately enlarged, by diuerse exhibityng and
vse of Compositions and mixtynges. Consider how, I (beyng desirous to deliuer the student from
error and Cauillation) do giue to this Practise, the name of the Arithmetike of Radicall numbers:
Not, of Irrationall or Surd Numbers: which other while, are Rationall: though they haue the
Signe of a Rote before them, which, Arithmetike of whole Numbers most vsuall, would say they
had no such Roote: and so account them Surd Numbers: which, generally spokẽ, is vntrue: as
Euclides tenth booke may teach you. Therfore to call them, generally, Radicall Numbers, (by
reason of the signe √. prefixed,) is a sure way: and a sufficient generall distinction from
all other ordryng and vsing of Numbers: And yet (beside all this) Consider: the infinite desire
of knowledge, and incredible power of mans Search and Capacitye: how, they, ioyntly haue waded
farder (by mixtyng of speculation and practise) and haue found out, and atteyned to the very
chief perfection (almost) of Numbers Practicall vse. Which thing, is well to be perceiued in
that great Arithmeticall Arte of Æquation: commonly called the Rule of Coss. or Algebra. The
Latines termed it, Regulam Rei & Census, that is, the +Rule of the thyng and his value+. With
an apt name: comprehendyng the first and last pointes of the worke. And the vulgar names, both
in Italian, Frenche and Spanish, depend (in namyng it,) vpon the signification of the Latin
word, Res: +A thing+: vnleast they vse the name of Algebra. And therin (commonly) is a dubble
error. The one, of them, which thinke it to be of Geber his inuentyng: the other of such as
call it Algebra. For, first, though Geber for his great skill in Numbers, Geometry, Astronomy,
and other maruailous Artes, mought haue semed hable to haue first deuised the sayd Rule: and
also the name carryeth with it a very nere likenes of Geber his name: yet true it is, that
a Greke Philosopher and Mathematicien, named Diophantus, before Geber his tyme, wrote 13. bookes
therof (of which, six are yet extant: and I had them to *vse,

    [* Anno. 1550.]

of the famous Mathematicien, and my great frende, Petrus Montaureus:) And secondly, the very
name, is Algiebar, and not Algebra: as by the Arabien Auicen, may be proued: who hath these
precise wordes in Latine, by Andreas Alpagus (most perfect in the Arabik tung) so translated.
Scientia faciendi Algiebar & Almachabel. i. Scientia inueniendi numerum ignotum, per additionem
Numeri, & diuisionem & æquationem. Which is to say: +The Science of workyng Algiebar and Almachabel+,
that is, the +Science of findyng an vnknowen number, by Addyng of a Number, & Diuision & æquation+.
Here haue you the name: and also the principall partes of the Rule, touched. To name it, The
rule, or Art of Æquation, doth signifie the middle part and the State of the Rule. This Rule,
hath his peculier Characters:

    [5.]

and the principal partes of Arithmetike, to it appertayning, do differre from the other Arithmeticall
operations. This Arithmetike, hath Nũbers Simple, Cõpound, Mixt: and Fractions, accordingly.
This Rule, and Arithmetike of Algiebar, is so profound, so generall and so (in maner) conteyneth
the whole power of Numbers Application practicall: that mans witt, can deale with nothyng,
more proffitable about numbers: nor match, with a thyng, more mete for the diuine force of
the Soule, (in humane Studies, affaires, or exercises) to be tryed in. Perchaunce you looked
for, (long ere now,) to haue had some particular profe, or euident testimony of the vse, proffit
and Commodity of Arithmetike vulgar, in the Common lyfe and trade of men. Therto, then, I will
now frame my selfe: But herein great care I haue, least length of sundry profes, might make
you deme, that either I did misdoute your zelous mynde to vertues schole: or els mistrust your
hable witts, by some, to gesse much more. A profe then, foure, fiue, or six, such, will I bryng,
as any reasonable man, therwith may be persuaded, to loue & honor, yea learne and exercise
the excellent Science of Arithmetike.

And first: who, nerer at hand, can be a better witnesse of the frute receiued by Arithmetike,
then all kynde of Marchants? Though not all, alike, either nede it, or vse it. How could they
forbeare the vse and helpe of the Rule, called the Golden Rule? Simple and Compounde: both
forward and backward? How might they misse Arithmeticall helpe in the Rules of Felowshyp: either
without tyme, or with tyme? and betwene the Marchant & his Factor? The Rules of Bartering in
wares onely: or part in wares, and part in money, would they gladly want? Our Marchant venturers,
and Trauaylers ouer Sea, how could they order their doynges iustly and without losse, vnleast
certaine and generall Rules for Exchaũge of money, and Rechaunge, were, for their vse, deuised?
The Rule of Alligation, in how sundry cases, doth it conclude for them, such precise verities,
as neither by naturall witt, nor other experience, they, were hable, els, to know? And (with
the Marchant then to make an end) how ample & wonderfull is the Rule of False positions? especially
as it is now, by two excellent Mathematiciens (of my familier acquayntance in their life time)
enlarged? I meane Gemma Frisius, and Simon Iacob. Who can either in brief conclude, the generall
and Capitall Rules? or who can Imagine the Myriades of sundry Cases, and particular examples,
in Act and earnest, continually wrought, tried and concluded by the forenamed Rules, onely?
How sundry other Arithmeticall practises, are commonly in Marchantes handes, and knowledge:
They them selues, can, at large, testifie.

The Mintmaster, and Goldsmith, in their Mixture of Metals, either of diuerse kindes, or diuerse
values: how are they, or may they, exactly be directed, and meruailously pleasured, if Arithmetike
be their guide? And the honorable Phisiciãs, will gladly confesse them selues, much beholding
to the Science of Arithmetike, and that sundry wayes: But chiefly in their Art of Graduation,
and compounde Medicines. And though Galenus, Auerrois, Arnoldus, Lullus, and other haue published
their positions, aswell in the quantities of the Degrees aboue Temperament, as in the Rules,
concluding the new Forme resulting: yet a more precise, commodious, and easy Method, is extant:
by a Countreyman of ours

    [R. B.]

(aboue 200. yeares ago) inuented. And forasmuch as I am vncertaine, who hath the same: or when
that litle Latin treatise, (as the Author writ it,) shall come to be Printed: (Both to declare
the desire I haue to pleasure my Countrey, wherin I may: and also, for very good profe of Numbers
vse, in this most subtile and frutefull, Philosophicall Conclusion,) I entend in the meane
while, most briefly, and with my farder helpe, to communicate the pith therof vnto you.

First describe a circle: whose diameter let be an inch. Diuide the Circumference into foure
equall partes. Frõ the Center, by those 4. sections, extend 4. right lines: eche of 4. inches
and a halfe long: or of as many as you liste, aboue 4. without the circumference of the circle:
So that they shall be of 4. inches long (at the least) without the Circle. Make good euident
markes, at euery inches end. If you list, you may subdiuide the inches againe into 10. or 12.
smaller partes, equall. At the endes of the lines, write the names of the 4. principall elementall
Qualities. Hote and Colde, one against the other. And likewise Moyst and Dry, one against the
other. And in the Circle write Temperate. Which Temperature hath a good Latitude: as appeareth
by the Complexion of man. And therefore we haue allowed vnto it, the foresayd Circle: and not
a point Mathematicall or Physicall.

    [* Take some part of Lullus counsayle in his booke
    de Q. Essentia.]

Now, when you haue two thinges Miscible, whose degrees are * truely knowen: Of necessitie,
either they are of one Quantitie and waight, or of diuerse. If they be of one Quantitie and
waight: whether their formes, be Contrary Qualities, or of one kinde (but of diuerse intentions
and degrees) or a Temperate, and a Contrary, The forme resulting of their Mixture, is in the
Middle betwene the degrees of the formes mixt. As for example, let A, be Moist in the first
degree: and B, Dry in the third degree. Adde 1. and 3. that maketh 4: the halfe or middle of
4. is 2. This 2. is the middle, equally distant from A and B

    [* Note.]

(for the * Temperament is counted none. And for it, you must put a Ciphre, if at any time,
it be in mixture).

                              HOTE
                                +C
                                |
                                |
                                +
                                |
                                |
                                +
                                |
                                |
                                +E
                                |
  MOIST                  A  TEMPERATE                B     DRYE
    +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
                                |D
                                |
                                +
                                |
                                |
                                +
                                |
                                |
                                +
                                |
                                |
                                +
                              COLD

Counting then from B, 2. degrees, toward A: you finde it to be Dry in the first degree: So
is the Forme resulting of the Mixture of A, and B, in our example. I will geue you an other
example. Suppose, you haue two thinges, as C, and D: and of C, the Heate to be in the 4. degree:
and of D, the Colde, to be remisse, euen vnto the Temperament. Now, for C, you take 4: and
for D, you take a Ciphre: which, added vnto 4, yeldeth onely 4. The middle, or halfe, whereof,
is 2. Wherefore the Forme resulting of C, and D, is Hote in the second degree: for, 2. degrees,
accounted from C, toward D, ende iuste in the 2. degree of heate. Of the third maner, I will
geue also an example: which let be this:

    [Note.]

I haue a liquid Medicine whose Qualitie of heate is in the 4. degree exalted: as was C, in
the example foregoing: and an other liquid Medicine I haue: whose Qualitie, is heate, in the
first degree. Of eche of these, I mixt a like quantitie: Subtract here, the lesse frõ the more:
and the residue diuide into two equall partes: whereof, the one part, either added to the lesse,
or subtracted from the higher degree, doth produce the degree of the Forme resulting, by this
mixture of C, and E. As, if from 4. ye abate 1. there resteth 3. the halfe of 3. is 1½: Adde
to 1. this 1½: you haue 2½. Or subtract from 4. this 1½: you haue likewise 2½ remayning. Which
declareth, the Forme resulting, to be Heate, in the middle of the third degree.

    [The Second Rule.]

“But if the Quantities of two thinges Commixt, be diuerse, and the Intensions (of their Formes
Miscible) be in diuerse degrees, and heigthes. (Whether those Formes be of one kinde, or of
Contrary kindes, or of a Temperate and a Contrary, What proportion is of the lesse quantitie
to the greater, the same shall be of the difference, which is betwene the degree of the Forme
resulting, and the degree of the greater quantitie of the thing miscible, to the difference,
which is betwene the same degree of the Forme resulting, and the degree of the lesse quantitie.
As for example. Let two pound of Liquor be geuen, hote in the 4. degree: & one pound of Liquor
be geuen, hote in the third degree.” I would gladly know the Forme resulting, in the Mixture
of these two Liquors. Set downe your nũbers in order, thus.

  |            |              |
  |  {P}. 2. |  Hote. 4.  |
  |            |              |
  |  {P}. 1. |  Hote. 3.  |
  |||

Now by the rule of Algiebar, haue I deuised a very easie, briefe, and generall maner of working
in this case. Let vs first, suppose that Middle Forme resulting, to be 1{x}: as that Rule teacheth.
And because (by our Rule, here geuen) as the waight of 1. is to 2: So is the difference betwene
4. (the degree of the greater quantitie) and 1{x}: to the difference betwene 1{x} and 3: (the
degree of the thing, in lesse quãtitie. And with all, 1{x}, being alwayes in a certaine middell,
betwene the two heigthes or degrees). For the first difference, I set 4-1{x}: and for the second,
I set 1{x}-3. And, now againe, I say, as 1. is to 2. so is 4-1{x} to 1{x}-3. Wherfore, of these
foure proportionall numbers, the first and the fourth Multiplied, one by the other, do make
as much, as the second and the third Multiplied the one by the other. Let these Multiplications
be made accordingly. And of the first and the fourth, we haue 1{x}-3. and of the second & the
third, 8-2{x}. Wherfore, our Æquation is betwene 1{x}-3: and 8-2{x}. Which may be reduced,
according to the Arte of Algiebar: as, here, adding 3. to eche part, geueth the Æquation, thus,
1{x}=11-2{x}. And yet againe, contracting, or Reducing it: Adde to eche part, 2{x}: Then haue
you 3{x} æquall to 11: thus represented 3{x}=11. Wherefore, diuiding 11. by 3: the Quotient
is 3⅔: the Valew of our 1{x}, Coss, or Thing, first supposed. And that is the heigth, or Intension
of the Forme resulting: which is, Heate, in two thirdes of the fourth degree: And here I set
the shew of the worke in conclusion, thus. The proufe hereof is easie: by subtracting 3. from
3⅔, resteth ⅔. Subtracte the same heigth of the Forme resulting, (which is 3⅔) frõ 4: then
resteth ⅓: You see, that ⅔ is double to ⅓: as 2.{P}. is double to 1.{P}. So should it be: by
the rule here geuen. Note. As you added to eche part of the Æquation, 3: so if ye first added
to eche part 2{x}, it would stand, 3{x}-3=8. And now adding to eche part 3: you haue (as afore)
3{x}=11.

   |           |             | 
   | {P}. 2. |  Hote. 4. |   ⅓    The forme
   |           |             |        3⅔ resulting.
   | {P}. 1. |  Hote. 3. |  ⅔
   |||

And though I, here, speake onely of two thyngs Miscible: and most commonly mo then three, foure,
fiue or six, (&c.) are to be Mixed: (and in one Compound to be reduced: & the Forme resultyng
of the same, to serue the turne) yet these Rules are sufficient: duely repeated and iterated.

    [Note.]

In procedyng first, with any two: and then, with the Forme Resulting, and an other: & so forth:
For, the last worke, concludeth the Forme resultyng of them all: I nede nothing to speake,
of the Mixture (here supposed) what it is. Common Philosophie hath defined it, saying, Mixtio
est miscibilium, alteratorum, per minima coniunctorum, Vnio. Euery word in the definition,
is of great importance. I nede not also spend any time, to shew, how, the other manner of distributing
of degrees, doth agree to these Rules. Neither nede I of the farder vse belonging to the Crosse
of Graduation (before described) in this place declare, vnto such as are capable of that, which
I haue all ready sayd. Neither yet with examples specifie the Manifold varieties, by the foresayd
two generall Rules, to be ordered. The witty and Studious, here, haue sufficient: And they
which are not hable to atteine to this, without liuely teaching, and more in particular: would
haue larger discoursing, then is mete in this place to be dealt withall: And other (perchaunce)
with a proude snuffe will disdaine this litle: and would be vnthankefull for much more. I,
therfore conclude: and wish such as haue modest and earnest Philosophicall mindes, to laude
God highly for this: and to Meruayle, that the profoundest and subtilest point, concerning
Mixture of Formes and Qualities Naturall, is so Matcht and maryed with the most simple, easie,
and short way of the noble Rule of Algiebar. Who can remaine, therfore vnpersuaded, to loue,
alow, and honor the excellent Science of Arithmetike? For, here, you may perceiue that the
litle finger of Arithmetike, is of more might and contriuing, then a hunderd thousand mens
wittes, of the middle sorte, are hable to perfourme, or truely to conclude, with out helpe thereof.

Now will we farder, by the wise and valiant Capitaine, be certified, what helpe he hath, by
the Rules of Arithmetike: in one of the Artes to him appertaining: And of the Grekes named

    [Τακτικὴ.]

Τακτικὴ. “That is, the Skill of Ordring Souldiers in Battell ray after the best maner to all
purposes.” This Art so much dependeth vppon Numbers vse, and the Mathematicals, that Ælianus
(the best writer therof,) in his worke, to the Emperour Hadrianus, by his perfection, in the
Mathematicals, (beyng greater, then other before him had,) thinketh his booke to passe all
other the excellent workes, written of that Art, vnto his dayes. For, of it, had written Æneas:
Cyneas of Thessaly: Pyrrhus Epirota: and Alexander his sonne: Clearchus: Pausanias: Euangelus:
Polybius, familier frende to Scipio: Eupolemus: Iphicrates, Possidonius: and very many other
worthy Capitaines, Philosophers and Princes of Immortall fame and memory: Whose fayrest floure
of their garland (in this feat) was Arithmetike: and a litle perceiuerance, in Geometricall
Figures. But in many other cases doth Arithmetike stand the Capitaine in great stede. As in
proportionyng of vittayles, for the Army, either remaining at a stay: or suddenly to be encreased
with a certaine number of Souldiers: and for a certain tyme. Or by good Art to diminish his
company, to make the victuals, longer to serue the remanent, & for a certaine determined tyme:
if nede so require. And so in sundry his other accountes, Reckeninges, Measurynges, and proportionynges,
the wise, expert, and Circumspect Capitaine will affirme the Science of Arithmetike, to be
one of his chief Counsaylors, directers and aiders. Which thing (by good meanes) was euident
to the Noble, the Couragious, the loyall, and Curteous

    [☞]

Iohn, late Earle of Warwicke. Who was a yong Gentleman, throughly knowne to very few. Albeit
his lusty valiantnes, force, and Skill in Chiualrous feates and exercises: his humblenes, and
frendelynes to all men, were thinges, openly, of the world perceiued. But what rotes (otherwise,)
vertue had fastened in his brest, what Rules of godly and honorable life he had framed to him
selfe: what vices, (in some then liuing) notable, he tooke great care to eschew: what manly
vertues, in other noble men, (florishing before his eyes,) he Sythingly aspired after: what
prowesses he purposed and ment to achieue: with what feats and Artes, he began to furnish and
fraught him selfe, for the better seruice of his Kyng and Countrey, both in peace & warre.
These (I say) his Heroicall Meditations, forecastinges and determinations, no twayne, (I thinke)
beside my selfe, can so perfectly, and truely report. And therfore, in Conscience, I count
it my part, for the honor, preferment, & procuring of vertue (thus, briefly) to haue put his
Name, in the Register of Fame Immortall.

To our purpose. This Iohn, by one of his actes (besides many other: both in England and Fraunce,
by me, in him noted.) did disclose his harty loue to vertuous Sciences: and his noble intent,
to excell in Martiall prowesse: When he, with humble request, and instant Solliciting: got
the best Rules (either in time past by Greke or Romaine, or in our time vsed: and new Stratagemes
therin deuised) for ordring of all Companies, summes and Numbers of mẽ, (Many, or few) with
one kinde of weapon, or mo, appointed: with Artillery, or without: on horsebacke, or on fote:
to giue, or take onset: to seem many, being few: to seem few, being many. To marche in battaile
or Iornay: with many such feates, to Foughten field, Skarmoush, or Ambushe appartaining:

    [This noble Earle, dyed Anno. 1554. skarse of 24. yeares
    of age: hauing no issue by his wife: Daughter to the Duke
    of Somerset.]

And of all these, liuely designementes (most curiously) to be in velame parchement described:
with Notes & peculier markes, as the Arte requireth: and all these Rules, and descriptions
Arithmeticall, inclosed in a riche Case of Gold, he vsed to weare about his necke: as his Iuell
most precious, and Counsaylour most trusty. Thus, Arithmetike, of him, was shryned in gold:
Of Numbers frute, he had good hope. Now, Numbers therfore innumerable, in Numbers prayse, his
shryne shall finde.

What nede I, (for farder profe to you) of the Scholemasters of Iustice, to require testimony:
how nedefull, how frutefull, how skillfull a thing Arithmetike is? I meane, the Lawyers of
all sortes. Vndoubtedly, the Ciuilians, can meruaylously declare: how, neither the Auncient
Romaine lawes, without good knowledge of Numbers art, can be perceiued: Nor (Iustice in infinite
Cases) without due proportion, (narrowly considered,) is hable to be executed. How Iustly,
& with great knowledge of Arte, did Papinianus institute a law of partition, and allowance,
betwene man and wife after a diuorce? But how Accursius, Baldus, Bartolus, Iason, Alexander,
and finally Alciatus, (being otherwise, notably well learned) do iumble, gesse, and erre, from
the æquity, art and Intent of the lawmaker: Arithmetike can detect, and conuince: and clerely,
make the truth to shine. Good Bartolus, tyred in the examining & proportioning of the matter:
and with Accursius Glosse, much cumbred: burst out, and sayd: Nulla est in toto libro, hac
glossa difficilior: Cuius computationem nec Scholastici nec Doctores intelligunt. &c. That
is: +In the whole booke, there is no Glosse harder then this: Whose accoumpt or reckenyng,
neither the Scholers, nor the Doctours vnderstand. &c.+ What can they say of Iulianus law,
Si ita Scriptum. &c. Of the Testators will iustly performing, betwene the wife, Sonne and daughter?
How can they perceiue the æquitie of Aphricanus, Arithmeticall Reckening, where he treateth
of Lex Falcidia? How can they deliuer him, from his Reprouers: and their maintainers: as Ioannes,
Accursius Hypolitus and Alciatus? How Iustly and artificially, was Africanus reckening made?
Proportionating to the Sommes bequeathed, the Contributions of eche part? Namely, for the hundred
presently receiued, 17-1/7. And for the hundred, receiued after ten monethes, 12-6/7: which
make the 30: which were to be cõtributed by the legataries to the heire. For, what proportion,
100 hath to 75: the same hath 17-1/7 to 12-6/7: Which is Sesquitertia: that is, as 4, to 3.
which make 7. Wonderfull many places, in the Ciuile law, require an expert Arithmeticien, to
vnderstand the deepe Iudgemẽt, & Iust determinatiõ of the Auncient Romaine Lawmakers. But much
more expert ought he to be, who should be hable, to decide with æquitie, the infinite varietie
of Cases, which do, or may happen, vnder euery one of those lawes and ordinances Ciuile. Hereby,
easely, ye may now coniecture: that in the Canon law: and in the lawes of the Realme (which
with vs, beare the chief Authoritie), Iustice and equity might be greately preferred, and skilfully
executed, through due skill of Arithmetike, and proportions appertainyng. The worthy Philosophers,
and prudent lawmakers (who haue written many bookes De Republica: How the best state of Common
wealthes might be procured and mainteined,) haue very well determined of Iustice: (which, not
onely, is the Base and foundacion of Common weales: but also the totall perfection of all our
workes, words, and thoughtes:) defining it,

    [Iustice.]

“to be that vertue, by which, to euery one, is rendred, that to him appertaineth.” God challengeth
this at our handes, to be honored as God: to be loued, as a father: to be feared as a Lord
& master. Our neighbours proportiõ, is also prescribed of the Almighty lawmaker: which is,
to do to other, euen as we would be done vnto. These proportions, are in Iustice necessary:
in duety, commendable: and of Common wealthes, the life, strength, stay and florishing. Aristotle
in his Ethikes (to fatch the sede of Iustice, and light of direction, to vse and execute the
same) was fayne to fly to the perfection, and power of Numbers: for proportions Arithmeticall
and Geometricall. Plato in his booke called Epinomis (which boke, is the Threasury of all his
doctrine) where, his purpose is, to seke a Science, which, when a man had it, perfectly: he
might seme, and so be, in dede, Wise. He, briefly, of other Sciences discoursing, findeth them,
not hable to bring it to passe: But of the Science of Numbers, he sayth. Illa, quæ numerum
mortalium generi dedit, id profecto efficiet. Deum autem aliquem, magis quam fortunam, ad salutem
nostram, hoc munus nobis arbitror contulisse. &c. Nam ipsum bonorum omnium Authorem, cur non
maximi boni, Prudentiæ dico, causam arbitramur? +That Science, verely, which hath taught mankynde
number, shall be able to bryng it to passe. And, I thinke, a certaine God, rather then fortune,
to haue giuen vs this gift, for our blisse. For, why should we not Iudge him, who is the Author
of all good things, to be also the cause of the greatest good thyng, namely, Wisedome?+ There,
at length, he proueth Wisedome to be atteyned, by good Skill of Numbers. With which great Testimony,
and the manifold profes, and reasons, before expressed, you may be sufficiently and fully persuaded:
of the perfect Science of Arithmetike, to make this accounte: That

    [☞]

of all Sciences, next to Theologie, it is most diuine, most pure, most ample and generall,
most profounde, most subtile, most commodious and most necessary. Whose next Sister, is the
Absolute Science of Magnitudes: of which (by the Direction and aide of him, whose Magnitude
is Infinite, and of vs Incomprehensible) I now entend, so to write, that both with the Multitude,
and also with the Magnitude of Meruaylous and frutefull verities, you (my frendes and Countreymen)
may be stird vp, and awaked, to behold what certaine Artes and Sciences, (to our vnspeakable
behofe) our heauenly father, hath for vs prepared, and reuealed, by sundry Philosophers and
Mathematiciens.

Both, Number and Magnitude, haue a certaine Originall sede, (as it were) of an incredible property:
and of man, neuer hable, Fully, to be declared. Of Number, an Vnit, and of Magnitude, a Poynte,
doo seeme to be much like Originall causes: But the diuersitie neuerthelesse, is great. We
defined an Vnit, to be a thing Mathematicall Indiuisible: A Point, likewise, we sayd to be
a Mathematicall thing Indiuisible. And farder, that a Point may haue a certaine determined
Situation: that is, that we may assigne, and prescribe a Point, to be here, there, yonder.
&c. Herein, (behold) our Vnit is free, and can abyde no bondage, or to be tyed to any place,
or seat: diuisible or indiuisible. Agayne, by reason, a Point may haue a Situation limited
to him: a certaine motion, therfore (to a place, and from a place) is to a Point incident and
appertainyng. But an Vnit, can not be imagined to haue any motion. A Point, by his motion,
produceth, Mathematically, a line: (as we sayd before) which is the first kinde of Magnitudes,
and most simple: An Vnit, can not produce any number. A Line, though it be produced of a Point
moued, yet, it doth not consist of pointes: Number, though it be not produced of an Vnit, yet
doth it Consist of vnits, as a materiall cause. But formally,

    [Number.]

Number, is the Vnion, and Vnitie of Vnits. Which vnyting and knitting, is the workemanship
of our minde: which, of distinct and discrete Vnits, maketh a Number: by vniformitie, resulting
of a certaine multitude of Vnits. And so, euery number, may haue his least part, giuen: namely,
an Vnit: But not of a Magnitude, (no, not of a Lyne,) the least part can be giuẽ: by cause,
infinitly, diuision therof, may be conceiued. All Magnitude, is either a Line, a Plaine, or
a Solid. Which Line, Plaine, or Solid, of no Sense, can be perceiued, nor exactly by hãd (any
way) represented: nor of Nature produced: But, as (by degrees) Number did come to our perceiuerance:
So, by visible formes, we are holpen to imagine, what our Line Mathematicall, is. What our
Point, is. So precise, are our Magnitudes, that one Line is no broader then an other: for they
haue no bredth: Nor our Plaines haue any thicknes. Nor yet our Bodies, any weight: be they
neuer so large of dimensiõ. Our Bodyes, we can haue Smaller, then either Arte or Nature can
produce any: and Greater also, then all the world can comprehend. Our least Magnitudes, can
be diuided into so many partes, as the greatest. As, a Line of an inch long, (with vs) may
be diuided into as many partes, as may the diameter of the whole world, from East to West:
or any way extended: What priuiledges, aboue all manual Arte, and Natures might, haue our two
Sciences Mathematicall? to exhibite, and to deale with thinges of such power, liberty, simplicity,
puritie, and perfection? And in them, so certainly, so orderly, so precisely to procede: as,
excellent is that workemã Mechanicall Iudged, who nerest can approche to the representing of
workes, Mathematically demonstrated?

    [☞]

And our two Sciences, remaining pure, and absolute, in their proper termes, and in their owne
Matter: to haue, and allowe, onely such Demonstrations, as are plaine, certaine, vniuersall,
and of an æternall veritye?

    [Geometrie.]

This Science of Magnitude, his properties, conditions, and appertenances: commonly, now is,
and from the beginnyng, hath of all Philosophers, ben called Geometrie. But, veryly, with a
name to base and scant, for a Science of such dignitie and amplenes. And, perchaunce, that
name, by cõmon and secret consent, of all wisemen, hitherto hath ben suffred to remayne: that
it might carry with it a perpetuall memorye, of the first and notablest benefite, by that Science,
to common people shewed: Which was, when Boundes and meres of land and ground were lost, and
confounded (as in Egypt, yearely, with the ouerflowyng of Nilus, the greatest and longest riuer
in the world) or, that ground bequeathed, were to be assigned: or, ground sold, were to be
layd out: or (when disorder preuailed) that Commõs were distributed into seueralties. For,
where, vpon these & such like occasiõs, Some by ignorãce, some by negligẽce, Some by fraude,
and some by violence, did wrongfully limite, measure, encroach, or challenge (by pretence of
iust content, and measure) those landes and groundes: great losse, disquietnes, murder, and
warre did (full oft) ensue: Till, by Gods mercy, and mans Industrie, The perfect Science of
Lines, Plaines, and Solides (like a diuine Iusticier,) gaue vnto euery man, his owne. The people
then, by this art pleasured, and greatly relieued, in their landes iust measuring: & other
Philosophers, writing Rules for land measuring: betwene them both, thus, confirmed the name
of Geometria, that is, (according to the very etimologie of the word) Land measuring. Wherin,
the people knew no farder, of Magnitudes vse, but in Plaines: and the Philosophers, of thẽ,
had no feet hearers, or Scholers: farder to disclose vnto, then of flat, plaine Geometrie.
And though, these Philosophers, knew of farder vse, and best vnderstode the etymologye of the
worde, yet this name Geometria, was of them applyed generally to all sortes of Magnitudes:
vnleast, otherwhile, of Plato, and Pythagoras: When they would precisely declare their owne
doctrine. Then, was

    [* Plato. 7. de Rep.]

* Geometria, with them, Studium quod circa planum versatur. But, well you may perceiue by Euclides
Elementes, that more ample is our Science, then to measure Plaines: and nothyng lesse therin
is tought (of purpose) then how to measure Land. An other name, therfore, must nedes be had,
for our Mathematicall Science of Magnitudes: which regardeth neither clod, nor turff: neither
hill, nor dale: neither earth nor heauen: but is absolute Megethologia: not creping on ground,
and dasseling the eye, with pole perche, rod or lyne: but “liftyng the hart aboue the heauens,
by inuisible lines, and

    [☞]

immortall beames meteth with the reflexions, of the light incomprehensible: and so procureth
Ioye, and perfection vnspeakable.” Of which true vse of our Megethica, or Megethologia, Diuine
Plato seemed to haue good taste, and iudgement: and (by the name of Geometrie) so noted it:
and warned his Scholers therof: as, in hys seuenth Dialog, of the Common wealth, may euidently
be sene. Where (in Latin) thus it is: right well translated: Profecto, nobis hoc non negabunt,
Quicun[que] vel paululum quid Geometriæ gustârunt, quin hæc Scientia, contrà, omnino se habeat,
quàm de ea loquuntur, qui in ipsa versantur. In English, thus. +Verely+ (sayth Plato) +whosoeuer
haue, (but euen very litle) tasted of Geometrie, will not denye vnto vs, this: but that this
Science, is of an other condicion, quite contrary to that, which they that are exercised in
it, do speake of it.+ And there it followeth, of our Geometrie, Quòd quæritur cognoscendi illius
gratia, quod semper est, non & eius quod oritur quando[que] & interit. Geometria, eius quod
est semper, Cognitio est. Attollet igitur (ô Generose vir) ad Veritatem, animum: at[que] ita,
ad Philosophandum preparabit cogitationem, vt ad supera conuertamus: quæ, nunc, contra quàm
decet, ad inferiora deijcimus. &c. Quàm maximè igitur præcipiendum est, vt qui præclarissimam
hanc habitãt Civitatem, nullo modo, Geometriam spernant. Nam & quæ præter ipsius propositum,
quodam modo esse videntur, haud exigua sunt. &c. It must nedes be confessed (saith Plato) +That
=[Geometrie]= is learned, for the knowyng of that, which is euer: and not of that, which, in
tyme, both is bred and is brought to an ende. &c. Geometrie is the knowledge of that which
is euerlastyng. It will lift vp therfore (O Gentle Syr) our mynde to the Veritie: and by that
meanes, it will prepare the Thought, to the Philosophicall loue of wisdome: that we may turne
or conuert, toward heauenly thinges =[both mynde and thought]= which now, otherwise then becommeth
vs, we cast down on base or inferior things. &c. Chiefly, therfore, Commaundement must be giuen,
that such as do inhabit this most honorable Citie, by no meanes, despise Geometrie. For euen
those thinges =[done by it]= which, in manner, seame to be, beside the purpose of Geometrie:
are of no small importance. &c.+ And besides the manifold vses of Geometrie, in matters appertainyng
to warre, he addeth more, of second vnpurposed frute, and commoditye, arrising by Geometrie:
saying: Scimus quin etiam, ad Disciplinas omnes facilius per discendas, interesse omnino, attigerit
ne Geometriam aliquis, an non. &c. Hanc ergo Doctrinam, secundo loco discendam Iuuenibus statuamus.
That is. +But, also, we know, that for the more easy learnyng of all Artes, it importeth much,
whether one haue any knowledge in Geometrie, or no. &c. Let vs therfore make an ordinance or
decree, that this Science, of young men shall be learned in the second place.+ This was Diuine
Plato his Iudgement, both of the purposed, chief, and perfect vse of Geometrie: and of his
second, dependyng, deriuatiue commodities. And for vs, Christen men, a thousand thousand mo
occasions are, to haue nede of the helpe of *

    [I. D.
    * Herein, I would gladly shake of, the earthly name,
    of Geometrie.]

Megethologicall Contemplations: wherby, to trayne our Imaginations and Myndes, by litle and
litle, to forsake and abandon, the grosse and corruptible Obiectes, of our vtward senses: and
to apprehend, by sure doctrine demonstratiue, Things Mathematicall. And by them, readily to
be holpen and conducted to conceiue, discourse, and conclude of things Intellectual, Spirituall,
æternall, and such as concerne our Blisse euerlasting: which, otherwise (without Speciall priuiledge
of Illumination, or Reuelation frõ heauen) No mortall mans wyt (naturally) is hable to reach
vnto, or to Compasse. And, veryly, by my small Talent (from aboue) I am hable to proue and
testifie, that the litterall Text, and order of our diuine Law, Oracles, and Mysteries, require
more skill in Numbers, and Magnitudes: then (commonly) the expositors haue vttered: but rather
onely (at the most) so warned: & shewed their own want therin. (To name any, is nedeles: and
to note the places, is, here, no place: But if I be duely asked, my answere is ready.) And
without the litterall, Grammaticall, Mathematicall or Naturall verities of such places, by
good and certaine Arte, perceiued, no Spirituall sense (propre to those places, by Absolute
Theologie) will thereon depend.

    [☞]

“No man, therfore, can doute, but toward the atteyning of knowledge incomparable, and Heauenly
Wisedome: Mathematicall Speculations, both of Numbers and Magnitudes: are meanes, aydes, and
guides: ready, certaine, and necessary.” From henceforth, in this my Preface, will I frame
my talke, to Plato his fugitiue Scholers: or, rather, to such, who well can, (and also wil,)
vse their vtward senses, to the glory of God, the benefite of their Countrey, and their owne
secret contentation, or honest preferment, on this earthly Scaffold. To them, I will orderly
recite, describe & declare a great Number of Artes, from our two Mathematicall fountaines,
deriued into the fieldes of Nature. Wherby, such Sedes, and Rotes, as lye depe hyd in the groũd
of Nature, are refreshed, quickened, and prouoked to grow, shote vp, floure, and giue frute,
infinite, and incredible. And these Artes, shalbe such, as vpon Magnitudes properties do depende,
more, then vpon Number. And by good reason we may call them Artes, and Artes Mathematicall
Deriuatiue: for (at this tyme) I Define

    [An Arte.]

+An Arte, to be a Methodicall cõplete Doctrine, hauing abundancy of sufficient, and peculier
matter to deale with, by the allowance of the Metaphisicall Philosopher: the knowledge whereof,
to humaine state is necessarye.+ And that I account,

    [Art Mathematicall Deriuatiue.]

+An Art Mathematicall deriuatiue, which by Mathematicall demonstratiue Method, in Nũbers, or
Magnitudes, ordreth and confirmeth his doctrine, as much & as perfectly, as the matter subiect
will admit.+ And for that, I entend to vse the name and propertie of a

    [A Mechanitien.]

Mechanicien, otherwise, then (hitherto) it hath ben vsed, I thinke it good, (for distinction
sake) to giue you also a brief description, what I meane therby. +A Mechanicien, or a Mechanicall
workman is he, whose skill is, without knowledge of Mathematicall demonstration, perfectly
to worke and finishe any sensible worke, by the Mathematicien principall or deriuatiue, demonstrated
or demonstrable.+ Full well I know, that he which inuenteth, or maketh these demonstrations,
is generally called A speculatiue Mechanicien: which differreth nothyng from a Mechanicall
Mathematicien. So, in respect of diuerse actions, one man may haue the name of sundry artes:
as, some tyme, of a Logicien, some tymes (in the same matter otherwise handled) of a Rethoricien.
Of these trifles, I make, (as now, in respect of my Preface,) small account: to fyle thẽ for
the fine handlyng of subtile curious disputers. In other places, they may commaunde me, to
giue good reason: and yet, here, I will not be vnreasonable.

    [+1.+]

First, then, from the puritie, absolutenes, and Immaterialitie of Principall Geometrie, is
that kinde of Geometrie deriued, which vulgarly is counted Geometrie: and is the +Arte of Measuring
sensible magnitudes, their iust quãtities and contentes.+

    [Geometrie vulgar.]

This, teacheth to measure, either at hand: and the practiser, to be by the thing Measured:
and so, by due applying of Cumpase, Rule, Squire, Yarde, Ell, Perch, Pole, Line, Gaging rod,
(or such like instrument) to the Length, Plaine, or Solide measured,

    [1.]

* to be certified, either of the length, perimetry, or distance lineall: and this is called,
Mecometrie. Or

    [2.]

* to be certified of the content of any plaine Superficies: whether it be in ground Surueyed,
Borde, or Glasse measured, or such like thing: which measuring, is named Embadometrie.

    [3.]

* Or els to vnderstand the Soliditie, and content of any bodily thing: as of Tymber and Stone,
or the content of Pits, Pondes, Wells, Vessels, small & great, of all fashions. Where, of Wine,
Oyle, Beere, or Ale vessells, &c, the Measuring, commonly, hath a peculier name: and is called
Gaging. And the generall name of these Solide measures, is Stereometrie.

    [+2.+]

Or els, this vulgar Geometrie, hath consideration to teach the practiser, how to measure things,
with good distance betwene him and the thing measured: and to vnderstand thereby, either

    [1.]

* how Farre, a thing seene (on land or water) is from the measurer: and this may be called
Apomecometrie:

    [2.]

Or, how High or depe, aboue or vnder the leuel of the measurers stãding, any thing is, which
is sene on land or water, called Hypsometrie.

    [3.]

* Or, it informeth the measurer, how Broad any thing is, which is in the measurers vew: so
it be on Land or Water, situated: and may be called Platometrie. Though I vse here to condition,
the thing measured, to be on Land, or Water Situated:

    [Note.]

yet, know for certaine, that the sundry heigthe of Cloudes, blasing Starres, and of the Mone,
may (by these meanes) haue their distances from the earth: and, of the blasing Starres and
Mone, the Soliditie (aswell as distances) to be measured: But because, neither these things
are vulgarly taught: nor of a common practiser so ready to be executed: I, rather, let such
measures be reckened incident to some of our other Artes, dealing with thinges on high, more
purposely, then this vulgar Land measuring Geometrie doth: as in Perspectiue and Astronomie, &c.

Of these Feates (farther applied) is Sprong the Feate of Geodesie, or Land Measuring: more
cunningly to measure & Suruey Land, Woods, and Waters, a farre of. More cunningly, I say: But
God knoweth (hitherto) in these Realmes of England and Ireland (whether through ignorance or
fraude, I can not tell, in euery particular)

    [Note.]

how great wrong and iniurie hath (in my time) bene committed by vntrue measuring and surueying
of Land or Woods, any way. And, this I am sure: that the Value of the difference, betwene the
truth and such Surueyes, would haue bene hable to haue foũd (for euer) in eche of our two Vniuersities,
an excellent Mathematicall Reader: to eche, allowing (yearly) a hundred Markes of lawfull money
of this realme: which, in dede, would seme requisit, here, to be had (though by other wayes
prouided for) as well, as, the famous Vniuersitie of Paris, hath two Mathematicall Readers:
and eche, two hundreth French Crownes yearly, of the French Kinges magnificent liberalitie
onely. Now, againe, to our purpose returning: Moreouer, of the former knowledge Geometricall,
are growen the Skills of Geographie, Chorographie, Hydrographie, and Stratarithmetrie.

“+‡Geographie‡+ teacheth wayes, by which, in sũdry formes, (as Sphærike, Plaine or other),
the Situation of Cities, Townes, Villages, Fortes, Castells, Mountaines, Woods, Hauens, Riuers,
Crekes, & such other things, vpõ the outface of the earthly Globe (either in the whole, or
in some principall mẽber and portion therof cõtayned) may be described and designed, in cõmensurations
Analogicall to Nature and veritie: and most aptly to our vew, may be represented.” Of this
Arte how great pleasure, and how manifolde commodities do come vnto vs, daily and hourely:
of most men, is perceaued. While, some, to beautifie their Halls, Parlers, Chambers, Galeries,
Studies, or Libraries with: other some, for thinges past, as battels fought, earthquakes, heauenly
fyringes, & such occurentes, in histories mentioned: therby liuely, as it were, to vewe the
place, the region adioyning, the distance from vs: and such other circumstances. Some other,
presently to vewe the large dominion of the Turke: the wide Empire of the Moschouite: and the
litle morsell of ground, where Christendome (by profession) is certainly knowen. Litle, I say,
in respecte of the rest. &c. Some, either for their owne iorneyes directing into farre landes:
or to vnderstand of other mens trauailes. To conclude, some, for one purpose: and some, for
an other, liketh, loueth, getteth, and vseth, Mappes, Chartes, & Geographicall Globes. Of whose
vse, to speake sufficiently, would require a booke peculier.

+‡Chorographie‡+ seemeth to be an vnderling, and a twig, of Geographie: and yet neuerthelesse,
is in practise manifolde, and in vse very ample. “This teacheth Analogically to describe a
small portion or circuite of ground, with the contentes: not regarding what commensuration
it hath to the whole, or any parcell, without it, contained. But in the territory or parcell
of ground which it taketh in hand to make description of, it leaueth out (or vndescribed) no
notable, or odde thing, aboue the ground visible. Yea and sometimes, of thinges vnder ground,
geueth some peculier marke: or warning: as of Mettall mines, Cole pittes, Stone quarries. &c.”
Thus, a Dukedome, a Shiere, a Lordship, or lesse, may be described distinctly. But marueilous
pleasant, and profitable it is, in the exhibiting to our eye, and commensuration, the plat
of a Citie, Towne, Forte, or Pallace, in true Symmetry: not approching to any of them: and
out of Gunne shot. &c. Hereby, the Architect may furnishe him selfe, with store of what patterns
he liketh: to his great instruction: euen in those thinges which outwardly are proportioned:
either simply in them selues: or respectiuely, to Hilles, Riuers, Hauens, and Woods adioyning.
Some also, terme this particular description of places, Topographie.

“+‡Hydrographie‡+, deliuereth to our knowledge, on Globe or in Plaine, the perfect Analogicall
description of the Ocean Sea coastes, through the whole world: or in the chiefe and principall
partes thereof:” with the Iles and chiefe particular places of daungers, conteyned within the
boundes, and Sea coastes described: as, of Quicksandes, Bankes, Pittes, Rockes, Races, Countertides,
Whorlepooles. &c. This, dealeth with the Element of the water chiefly: as Geographie did principally
take the Element of the Earthes description (with his appertenances) to taske. And besides
thys, Hydrographie, requireth a particular Register of certaine Landmarkes (where markes may
be had) from the sea, well hable to be skried, in what point of the Seacumpase they appeare,
and what apparent forme, Situation, and bignes they haue, in respecte of any daungerous place
in the sea, or nere vnto it, assigned: And in all Coastes, what Mone, maketh full Sea: and
what way, the Tides and Ebbes, come and go, the Hydrographer ought to recorde. The Soundinges
likewise: and the Chanels wayes: their number, and depthes ordinarily, at ebbe and flud, ought
the Hydrographer, by obseruation and diligence of Measuring, to haue certainly knowen. And
many other pointes, are belonging to perfecte Hydrographie, and for to make a Rutter, by: of
which, I nede not here speake: as of the describing, in any place, vpon Globe or Plaine, the
32. pointes of the Compase, truely: (wherof, scarsly foure, in England, haue right knowledge:
bycause, the lines therof, are no straight lines, nor Circles.) Of making due proiection of
a Sphere in plaine. Of the Variacion of the Compas, from true Northe: And such like matters
(of great importance, all) I leaue to speake of, in this place: bycause, I may seame (al ready)
to haue enlarged the boundes, and duety of an Hydographer, much more, then any man (to this
day) hath noted, or prescribed. Yet am I well hable to proue, all these thinges, to appertaine,
and also to be proper to the Hydrographer. The chief vse and ende of this Art, is the Art of
Nauigation: but it hath other diuerse vses: euen by them to be enioyed, that neuer lacke sight
of land.

+‡Stratarithmetrie‡+, is the Skill, (appertainyng to the warre,) by which a man can set in
figure, analogicall to any Geometricall figure appointed, any certaine number or summe of men:
of such a figure capable: (by reason of the vsuall spaces betwene Souldiers allowed: and for
that, of men, can be made no Fractions. Yet, neuertheles, he can order the giuen summe of men,
for the greatest such figure, that of them, cã be ordred) and certifie, of the ouerplus: (if
any be) and of the next certaine summe, which, with the ouerplus, will admit a figure exactly
proportionall to the figure assigned. By which Skill, also, of any army or company of men:
(the figure & sides of whose orderly standing, or array, is knowen) he is able to expresse
the iust number of men, within that figure conteined: or (orderly) able to be conteined.

    [* Note.]

* And this figure, and sides therof, he is hable to know: either beyng by, and at hand: or
a farre of. Thus farre, stretcheth the description and property of Stratarithmetrie: sufficient
for this tyme and place.

    [The difference betwene Stratarithmetrie and Tacticie.]

“It differreth from the Feate Tacticall, De aciebus instruendis. bycause, there, is necessary
the wisedome and foresight, to what purpose he so ordreth the men: and Skillfull hability,
also, for any occasion, or purpose, to deuise and vse the aptest and most necessary order,
array and figure of his Company and Summe of men.” By figure, I meane: as, either of a Perfect
Square, Triangle, Circle, Ouale, long square, (of the Grekes it is called Eteromekes) Rhombe,
Rhomboïd, Lunular, Ryng, Serpentine, and such other Geometricall figures: Which, in warres,
haue ben, and are to be vsed: for commodiousnes, necessity, and auauntage &c. And no small
skill ought he to haue, that should make true report, or nere the truth, of the numbers and
Summes, of footemen or horsemen, in the Enemyes ordring. A farre of, to make an estimate, betwene
nere termes of More and Lesse, is not a thyng very rife, among those that gladly would do it.

    [I. D.
    Frende, you will finde it hard, to performe my description
    of this Feate. But by Chorographie, you may helpe your selfe
    some what: where the Figures knowne (in Sides and Angles)
    are not Regular: And where, Resolution into Triangles can
    serue. &c. And yet you will finde it strange to deale thus
    generally with Arithmeticall figures: and, that for Battayle
    ray. Their contentes, differ so much from like Geometricall
    Figures.]

Great pollicy may be vsed of the Capitaines, (at tymes fete, and in places conuenient) as to
vse Figures, which make greatest shew, of so many as he hath: and vsing the aduauntage of the
three kindes of vsuall spaces: (betwene footemen or horsemen) to take the largest: or when
he would seme to haue few, (beyng many:) contrarywise, in Figure, and space. The Herald, Purseuant,
Sergeant Royall, Capitaine, or who soeuer is carefull to come nere the truth herein, besides
the Iudgement of his expert eye, his skill of Ordering Tacticall, the helpe of his Geometricall
instrument: Ring, or Staffe Astronomicall: (commodiously framed for cariage and vse) He may
wonderfully helpe him selfe, by perspectiue Glasses. In which, (I trust) our posterity will
proue more skillfull and expert, and to greater purposes, then in these dayes, can (almost)
be credited to be possible.

Thus haue I lightly passed ouer the Artificiall Feates, chiefly dependyng vpon vulgar Geometrie:
& commonly and generally reckened vnder the name of Geometrie. But there are other (very many)
Methodicall Artes, which, declyning from the purity, simplicitie, and Immateriality, of our
Principall Science of Magnitudes: do yet neuertheles vse the great ayde, direction, and Method
of the sayd principall Science, and haue propre names, and distinct: both from the Science
of Geometrie, (from which they are deriued) and one from the other. As +Perspectiue, Astronomie,
Musike, Cosmographie, Astrologie, Statike, Anthropographie, Trochilike, Helicosophie, Pneumatithmie,
Menadrie, Hypogeiodie, Hydragogie, Horometrie, Zographie, Architecture, Nauigation, Thaumaturgike+
and +Archemastrie+. I thinke it necessary, orderly, of these to giue some peculier descriptions:
and withall, to touch some of their commodious vses, and so to make this Preface, to be a little
swete, pleasant Nosegaye for you: to comfort your Spirites, beyng almost out of courage, and
in despayre, (through brutish brute) Weenyng that Geometrie, had but serued for buildyng of
an house, or a curious bridge, or the roufe of Westminster hall, or some witty pretty deuise,
or engyn, appropriate to a Carpenter, or a Ioyner &c. That the thing is farre otherwise, then
the world, (commonly) to this day, hath demed, by worde and worke, good profe wilbe made.

Among these Artes, by good reason, +‡Perspectiue‡+ ought to be had, ere of Astronomicall Apparences,
perfect knowledge can be atteyned. And bycause of the prerogatiue of Light, beyng the first
of Gods Creatures: and the eye, the light of our body, and his Sense most mighty, and his organ
most Artificiall and Geometricall: At Perspectiue, we will begyn therfore. +Perspectiue, is
an Art Mathematicall, which demonstrateth the maner, and properties, of all Radiations Direct,
Broken, and Reflected.+ This Description, or Notation, is brief: but it reacheth so farre,
as the world is wyde. It concerneth all Creatures, all Actions, and passions, by Emanation
of beames perfourmed. Beames, or naturall lines, (here) I meane, not of light onely, or of
colour (though they, to eye, giue shew, witnes, and profe, wherby to ground the Arte vpon)
but also of other Formes, both Substantiall, and Accidentall, the certaine and determined actiue
Radiall emanations. By this Art (omitting to speake of the highest pointes) we may vse our
eyes, and the light, with greater pleasure: and perfecter Iudgement: both of things, in light
seen, & of other: which by like order of Lightes Radiations, worke and produce their effectes.
We may be ashamed to be ignorant of the cause, why so sundry wayes our eye is deceiued, and
abused: as, while the eye weeneth a roũd Globe or Sphere (beyng farre of) to be a flat and
plaine Circle, and so likewise iudgeth a plaine Square, to be roũd: supposeth walles parallels,
to approche, a farre of: rofe and floure parallels, the one to bend downward, the other to
rise vpward, at a little distance from you. Againe, of thinges being in like swiftnes of mouing,
to thinke the nerer, to moue faster: and the farder, much slower. Nay, of two thinges, wherof
the one (incomparably) doth moue swifter then the other, to deme the slower to moue very swift,
& the other to stand: what an error is this, of our eye? Of the Raynbow, both of his Colours,
of the order of the colours, of the bignes of it, the place and heith of it, (&c) to know the
causes demonstratiue, is it not pleasant, is it not necessary? of two or three Sonnes appearing:
of Blasing Sterres: and such like thinges: by naturall causes, brought to passe, (and yet neuertheles,
of farder matter, Significatiue) is it not commodious for man to know the very true cause,
& occasion Naturall? Yea, rather, is it not, greatly, against the Souerainty of Mans nature,
to be so ouershot and abused, with thinges (at hand) before his eyes? as with a Pecockes tayle,
and a Doues necke: or a whole ore, in water, holden, to seme broken. Thynges, farre of, to
seeme nere: and nere, to seme farre of. Small thinges, to seme great: and great, to seme small.
One man, to seme an Army. Or a man to be curstly affrayed of his owne shaddow. And neuerthelesse
by demonstration Opticall, the order and cause therof, is certified: euen so, as the effect
is consequent. Yea, thus much more, dare I take vpon me, toward the satisfying of the noble
courrage, that longeth ardently for the wisedome of Causes Naturall: as to let him vnderstand,
that, in London, he may with his owne eyes, haue profe of that, which I haue sayd herein. A
Gentleman, (which, for his good seruice, done to his Countrey, is famous and honorable:

    [S. W. P.]

and for skill in the Mathematicall Sciences, and Languages, is the Od man of this land. &c.)
euen he, is hable: and (I am sure) will, very willingly, let the Glasse, and profe be sene:
and so I (here) request him: for the encrease of wisedome, in the honorable: and for the stopping
of the mouthes malicious: and repressing the arrogancy of the ignorant. Ye may easily gesse,
what I meane. This Art of Perspectiue, is of that excellency, and may be led, to the certifying,
and executing of such thinges, as no man would easily beleue: without Actuall profe perceiued.
I speake nothing of Naturall Philosophie, which, without Perspectiue, can not be fully vnderstanded,
nor perfectly atteined vnto. Nor, of Astronomie: which, without Perspectiue, can not well be
grounded: Nor Astrologie, naturally Verified, and auouched. That part hereof, which dealeth
with Glasses (which name, Glasse, is a generall name, in this Arte, for any thing, from which,
a Beame reboundeth) is called Catoptrike: and hath so many vses, both merueilous, and proffitable:
that, both, it would hold me to long, to note therin the principall conclusions, all ready
knowne: And also (perchaunce) some thinges, might lacke due credite with you: And I, therby,
to leese my labor: and you, to slip into light Iudgement,

    [* ☞]

Before you haue learned sufficiently the powre of Nature and Arte.

Now, to procede: +‡Astronomie‡, is an Arte Mathematicall, which demonstrateth the distance,
magnitudes, and all naturall motions, apparences, and passions propre to the Planets and fixed
Sterres: for any time past, present and to come: in respect of a certaine Horizon, or without
respect of any Horizon.+ By this Arte we are certified of the distance of the Starry Skye,
and of eche Planete from the Centre of the Earth: and of the greatnes of any Fixed starre sene,
or Planete, in respect of the Earthes greatnes. As, we are sure (by this Arte) that the Solidity,
Massines and Body of the Sonne, conteineth the quantitie of the whole Earth and Sea, a hundred
thre score and two times, lesse by ⅛ one eight parte of the earth. But the Body of the whole
earthly globe and Sea, is bigger then the body of the Mone, three and forty times lesse by
⅛ of the Mone. Wherfore the Sonne is bigger then the Mone, 7000 times, lesse, by 59 39/64 that
is, precisely 6940 25/64 bigger then the Mone. And yet the vnskillfull man, would iudge them
a like bigge. Wherfore, of Necessity, the one is much farder from vs, then the other. The Sonne,
when he is fardest from the earth (which, now, in our age, is, when he is in the 8. degree,
of Cancer) is, 1179 Semidiameters of the Earth, distante. And the Mone when she is fardest
from the earth, is 68 Semidiameters of the earth and ⅓ The nerest, that the Mone commeth to
the earth, is Semidiameters 52¼ The distance of the Starry Skye is, frõ vs, in Semidiameters
of the earth 20081½ Twenty thousand fourescore, one, and almost a halfe. Subtract from this,
the Mones nerest distance, from the Earth: and therof remaineth Semidiameters of the earth
20029¼ Twenty thousand nine and twenty and a quarter.

    [Note.]

So thicke is the heauenly Palace, that the Planetes haue all their exercise in, and most meruailously
perfourme the Commaũdement and Charge to them giuen by the omnipotent Maiestie of the king
of kings. This is that, which in Genesis is called Ha Rakia. Consider it well. The Semidiameter
of the earth, cõteineth of our common miles 3436 4/11 three thousand, foure hundred thirty
six and foure eleuenth partes of one myle: Such as the whole earth and Sea, round about, is
21600. One and twenty thousand six hundred of our myles. Allowyng for euery degree of the greatest
circle, thre score myles. Now if you way well with your selfe but this litle parcell of frute
Astronomicall, as concerning the bignesse, Distances of Sonne, Mone, Sterry Sky, and the huge
massines of Ha Rakia, will you not finde your Consciences moued, with the kingly Prophet, to
sing the confession of Gods Glory, and say, +The Heauens declare the glory of God, and the
Firmament =[Ha Rakia]= sheweth forth the workes of his handes+. And so forth, for those fiue
first staues, of that kingly Psalme. Well, well, It is time for some to lay hold on wisedome,
and to Iudge truly of thinges: and notso to expound the Holy word, all by Allegories: as to
Neglect the wisedome, powre and Goodnes of God, in, and by his Creatures, and Creation to be
seen and learned. By parables and Analogies of whose natures and properties, the course of
the Holy Scripture, also, declareth to vs very many Mysteries. The whole Frame of Gods Creatures,
(which is the whole world,) is to vs, a bright glasse: from which, by reflexion, reboundeth
to our knowledge and perceiuerance, Beames, and Radiations: representing the Image of his Infinite
goodnes, Omnipotẽcy, and wisedome. And we therby, are taught and persuaded to Glorifie our
Creator, as God: and be thankefull therfore. Could the Heathenistes finde these vses, of these
most pure, beawtifull, and Mighty Corporall Creatures: and shall we, after that the true Sonne
of rightwisenesse is risen aboue the Horizon, of our temporall Hemisphærie, and hath so abundantly
streamed into our hartes, the direct beames of his goodnes, mercy, and grace: Whose heat All
Creatures feele: Spirituall and Corporall: Visible and Inuisible. Shall we (I say) looke vpon
the Heauen, Sterres, and Planets, as an Oxe and an Asse doth: no furder carefull or inquisitiue,
what they are: why were they Created, How do they execute that they were Created for? Seing,
All Creatures, were for our sake created: and both we, and they, Created, chiefly to glorifie
the Almighty Creator: and that, by all meanes, to vs possible. Nolite ignorare (saith Plato
in Epinomis) Astronomiam, Sapientissimũ quiddam esse. +Be ye not ignorant, Astronomie to be
a thyng of excellent wisedome.+ Astronomie, was to vs, from the beginning commended, and in
maner commaunded by God him selfe. In asmuch as he made the Sonne, Mone, and Sterres, to be
to vs, for Signes, and knowledge of Seasons, and for Distinctions of Dayes, and yeares. Many
wordes nede not. But I wish, euery man should way this word, Signes. And besides that, conferre
it also with the tenth Chapter of Hieremie. And though Some thinke, that there, they haue found
a rod: Yet Modest Reason, will be indifferent Iudge, who ought to be beaten therwith, in respect
of our purpose. Leauing that: I pray you vnderstand this: that without great diligence of Obseruation,
examination and Calculation, their periods and courses (wherby Distinction of Seasons, yeares,
and New Mones might precisely be knowne) could not exactely be certified. Which thing to performe,
is that Art, which we here haue Defined to be Astronomie. Wherby, we may haue the distinct
Course of Times, dayes, yeares, and Ages: aswell for Consideratiõ of Sacred Prophesies, accomplished
in due time, foretold: as for high Mysticall Solemnities holding: And for all other humaine
affaires, Conditions, and couenantes, vpon certaine time, betwene man and man: with many other
great vses: Wherin, (verely), would be great incertainty, Confusion, vntruth, and brutish Barbarousnes:
without the wonderfull diligence and skill of this Arte: continually learning, and determining
Times, and periodes of Time, by the Record of the heauenly booke, wherin all times are written:
and to be read with an Astronomicall staffe, in stede of a festue.

+‡Musike‡+, of Motion, hath his Originall cause: Therfore, after the motions most swift, and
most Slow, which are in the Firmament, of Nature performed: and vnder the Astronomers Consideration:
now I will Speake of an other kinde of Motion, producing sound, audible, and of Man numerable.
Musike I call here that Science, which of the Grekes is called Harmonice. Not medling with
the Controuersie betwene the auncient Harmonistes, and Canonistes. +Musike is a Mathematicall
Science, which teacheth, by sense and reason, perfectly to iudge, and order the diuersities
of soundes, hye and low.+ Astronomie and Musike are Sisters, saith Plato. As, for Astronomie,
the eyes: So, for Harmonious Motion, the eares were made. But as Astronomie hath a more diuine
Contemplation, and cõmodity, then mortall eye can perceiue: So, is Musike to be considered,

    [1.]

that the * Minde may be preferred, before the eare. And from audible sound, we ought to ascende,
to the examination: which numbers are Harmonious, and which not. And why, either, the one are:
or the other are not. I could at large,

    [2.]

in the heauenly * motions and distances, describe a meruailous Harmonie, of Pythagoras Harpe

    [3.]

with eight stringes. Also, somwhat might be sayd of Mercurius * two Harpes,

    [4.]

eche of foure Stringes Elementall. And very straunge matter, might be alledged of the Harmonie,

    [5.]

to our * Spirituall part appropriate. As in Ptolomaus third boke, in the fourth and sixth Chapters
may appeare. *

    [6.]

And what is the cause of the apt bonde, and frendly felowship, of the Intellectuall and Mentall
part of vs, with our grosse & corruptible body: but a certaine Meane, and Harmonious Spiritualitie,
with both participatyng, & of both (in a maner) resultynge In

    [7.]

the * Tune of Mans voyce, and also

    [8.]

* the sound of Instrument, what might be sayd, of Harmonie: No common Musicien would lightly
beleue.

    [I. D.
    Read in Aristotle his 8. booke of Politikes: the 5, 6, and 7.
    chapters. Where you shall haue some occasion farder to thinke
    of Musike, than commonly is thought.]

But of the sundry Mixture (as I may terme it) and concurse, diuerse collation, and Application
of these Harmonies: as of thre, foure, fiue, or mo: Maruailous haue the effectes ben: and yet
may be founde, and produced the like: with some proportionall consideration for our time, and
being: in respect of the State, of the thinges then: in which, and by which, the wondrous effectes
were wrought. Democritus and Theophrastus affirmed, that, by Musike, griefes and diseases of
the Minde, and body might be cured, or inferred. And we finde in Recorde, that Terpander, Arion,
Ismenias, Orpheus, Amphion, Dauid, Pythagoras, Empedocles, Asclepiades and Timotheus, by Harmonicall
Consonãcy, haue done, and brought to pas, thinges, more then meruailous, to here of. Of them
then, making no farder discourse, in this place: Sure I am, that Common Musike, commonly vsed,
is found to the Musiciens and Hearers, to be so Commodious and pleasant, That if I would say
and dispute, but thus much: That it were to be otherwise vsed, then it is, I should finde more
repreeuers, then I could finde priuy, or skilfull of my meaning. In thinges therfore euident,
and better knowen, then I can expresse: and so allowed and liked of, (as I would wish, some
other thinges, had the like hap) I will spare to enlarge my lines any farder, but consequently
follow my purpose.

+‡Of Cosmographie‡+, I appointed briefly in this place, to geue you some intelligence. +Cosmographie,
is the whole and perfect description of the heauenly, and also elementall parte of the world,
and their homologall application, and mutuall collation necessarie.+ This Art, requireth Astronomie,
Geographie, Hydrographie and Musike. Therfore, it is no small Arte, nor so simple, as in common
practise, it is (slightly) considered. This matcheth Heauen, and the Earth, in one frame, and
aptly applieth parts Correspõdent: So, as, the Heauenly Globe, may (in practise) be duely described
vpon the Geographicall, and Hydrographicall Globe. And there, for vs to consider an Æquonoctiall
Circle, an Ecliptike line, Colures, Poles, Sterres in their true Longitudes, Latitudes, Declinations,
and Verticalitie: also Climes, and Parallels: and by an Horizon annexed, and reuolution of
the earthly Globe (as the Heauen, is, by the Primouant, caried about in 24. æquall Houres)
to learne the Risinges and Settinges of Sterres (of Virgill in his Georgikes: of Hesiod: of
Hippocrates in his Medicinall Sphære, to Perdicca King of the Macedonians: of Diocles, to King
Antigonus, and of other famous Philosophers prescribed) a thing necessary, for due manuring
of the earth, for Nauigation, for the Alteration of mans body: being, whole, Sicke, wounded,
or brused. By the Reuolution, also, or mouing of the Globe Cosmographicall, the Rising and
Setting of the Sonne: the Lengthes, of dayes and nightes: the Houres and times (both night
and day) are knowne: with very many other pleasant and necessary vses: Wherof, some are knowne:
but better remaine, for such to know and vse:

    [☞]

who of a sparke of true fire, can make a wonderfull bonfire, by applying of due matter, duely.

+‡Of Astrologie‡+, here I make an Arte, seuerall from Astronomie: not by new deuise, but by
good reason and authoritie: for, +Astrologie, is an Arte Mathematicall, which reasonably demonstrateth
the operations and effectes, of the naturall beames, of light, and secrete influence: of the
Sterres and Planets: in euery element and elementall body: at all times, in any Horizon assigned.+
This Arte is furnished with many other great Artes and experiences: As with perfecte Perspectiue,
Astronomie, Cosmographie, Naturall Philosophie of the 4. Elementes, the Arte of Graduation,
and some good vnderstãding in Musike: and yet moreouer, with an other great Arte, hereafter
following, though I, here, set this before, for some considerations me mouing. Sufficient (you
see) is the stuffe, to make this rare and secrete Arte, of: and hard enough to frame to the
Conclusion Syllogisticall. Yet both the manifolde and continuall trauailes of the most auncient
and wise Philosophers, for the atteyning of this Arte: and by examples of effectes, to confirme
the same: hath left vnto vs sufficient proufe and witnesse: and we, also, daily may perceaue,
That mans body, and all other Elementall bodies, are altered, disposed, ordred, pleasured,
and displeasured, by the Influentiall working of the Sunne, Mone, and the other Starres and
Planets. And therfore, sayth Aristotle, in the first of his Meteorologicall bookes, in the
second Chapter: Est autem necessariò Mundus iste, supernis lationibus ferè continuus. Vt, inde,
vis eius vniuersa regatur. Ea siquidem Causà prima putanda omnibus est, vnde motus principium
existit. That is: +This =[Elementall]= World is of necessitie, almost, next adioyning, to the
heauenly motions: That, from thence, all his vertue or force may be gouerned. For, that is
to be thought the first Cause vnto all: from which, the beginning of motion, is.+ And againe,
in the tenth Chapter. Oportet igitur & horum principia sumamus, & causas omnium similiter.
Principium igitur vt mouens, præcipuum[que] & omnium primum, Circulus ille est, in quo manifeste
Solis latio, &c. And so forth. His Meteorologicall bookes, are full of argumentes, and effectuall
demonstrations, of the vertue, operation, and power of the heauenly bodies, in and vpon the
fower Elementes, and other bodies, of them (either perfectly, or vnperfectly) composed. And
in his second booke, De Generatione & Corruptione, in the tenth Chapter. Quocirca & prima latio,
Ortus & Interitus causa non est: Sed obliqui Circuli latio: ea nam[que] & continua est, & duobus
motibus fit: In Englishe, thus. +Wherefore the vppermost motion, is not the cause of Generation
and Corruption, but the motion of the Zodiake: for, that, both, is continuall, and is caused
of two mouinges.+ And in his second booke, and second Chapter of hys Physikes. Homo nam[que]
generat hominem, at[que] Sol. +For Man (sayth he) and the Sonne, are cause of mans generation.+
Authorities may be brought, very many: both of 1000. 2000. yea and 3000. yeares Antiquitie:
of great Philosophers, Expert, Wise, and godly men, for that Conclusion: which, daily and hourely,
we men, may discerne and perceaue by sense and reason: All beastes do feele, and simply shew,
by their actions and passions, outward and inward: All Plants, Herbes, Trees, Flowers, and
Fruites. And finally, the Elementes, and all thinges of the Elementes composed, do geue Testimonie
(as Aristotle sayd) that theyr +Whole Dispositions, vertues, and naturall motions, depend of
the Actiuitie of the heauenly motions and Influences. Whereby, beside the specificall order
and forme, due to euery seede: and beside the Nature, propre to the Indiuiduall Matrix, of
the thing produced: What shall be the heauenly Impression, the perfect and circumspecte Astrologien
hath to Conclude.+ Not onely (by Apotelesmes) τὸ ὁτὶ]. but by Naturall and Mathematicall demonstration
τὸ διότι. Whereunto, what Sciences are requisite (without exception) I partly haue here warned:
And in my Propædeumes (besides other matter there disclosed) I haue Mathematically furnished
vp the whole Method: To this our age, not so carefully handled by any, that euer I saw, or
heard of. I was,

    [* Anno. 1548 and 1549. in Louayn.]

(for * 21. yeares ago) by certaine earnest disputations, of the Learned Gerardus Mercator,
and Antonius Gogaua, (and other,) therto so prouoked: and (by my constant and inuincible zeale
to the veritie) in obseruations of Heauenly Influencies (to the Minute of time,) than, so diligent:
And chiefly by the Supernaturall influence, from the Starre of Iacob, so directed: That any
Modest and Sober Student, carefully and diligently seking for the Truth, will both finde &
cõfesse, therin, to be the Veritie, of these my wordes: And also become a Reasonable Reformer,
of three Sortes of people: about these Influentiall Operations, greatly erring from the truth.

    [Note.]

Wherof, the one, is +Light Beleuers+, the other, +Light Despisers+, and the third +Light Practisers+.
The first, & most cõmon Sort, thinke the Heauen and Sterres, to be answerable to any their
doutes or desires:

    [1.]

which is not so: and, in dede, they, to much, ouer reache. The Second sorte thinke no Influentiall
vertue (frõ the heauenly bodies) to beare any Sway in Generation

    [2.]

and Corruption, in this Elementall world. And to the Sunne, Mone and Sterres (being so many,
so pure, so bright, so wonderfull bigge, so farre in distance, so manifold in their motions,
so constant in their periodes. &c.) they assigne a sleight, simple office or two, and so allow
vnto thẽ (according to their capacities) as much vertue, and power Influentiall, as to the
Signe of the Sunne, Mone, and seuen Sterres, hanged vp (for Signes) in London, for distinction
of houses, & such grosse helpes, in our worldly affaires: And they vnderstand not (or will
not vnderstand) of the other workinges, and vertues of the Heauenly Sunne, Mone, and Sterres:
not so much, as the Mariner, or Husband man: no, not so much, as the Elephant doth, as the
Cynocephalus, as the Porpentine doth: nor will allow these perfect, and incorruptible mighty
bodies, so much vertuall Radiation, & Force, as they see in a litle peece of a Magnes stone:
which, at great distance, sheweth his operation. And perchaunce they thinke, the Sea & Riuers
(as the Thames) to be some quicke thing, and so to ebbe, and flow, run in and out, of them
selues, at their owne fantasies. God helpe, God helpe. Surely, these men, come to short: and
either are to dull: or willfully blind: or, perhaps, to malicious. The third man, is the common
and vulgare Astrologien, or Practiser: who, being not duely, artificially, and perfectly

    [3.]

furnished: yet, either for vaine glory, or gayne: or like a simple dolt, & blinde Bayard, both
in matter and maner, erreth: to the discredit of the Wary, and modest Astrologien: and to the
robbing of those most noble corporall Creatures, of their Naturall Vertue: being most mighty:
most beneficiall to all elementall Generation, Corruption and the appartenances: and most Harmonious
in their Monarchie: For which thinges, being knowen, and modestly vsed: we might highly, and
continually glorifie God, with the princely Prophet, saying. +The Heauens declare the Glorie
of God: who made the Heauẽs in his wisedome: who made the Sonne, for to haue dominion of the
day: the Mone and Sterres to haue dominion of the nyght: whereby, Day to day vttereth talke:
and night, to night declareth knowledge. Prayse him, all ye Sterres, and Light. Amen.+

In order, now foloweth, of +‡Statike‡+, somewhat to say, what we meane by that name: and what
commodity, doth, on such Art, depend. +Statike, is an Arte Mathematicall, which demonstrateth
the causes of heauynes, and lightnes of all thynges: and of motions and properties, to heauynes
and lightnes, belonging.+ And for asmuch as, by the Bilanx, or Balance (as the chief sensible
Instrument,) Experience of these demonstrations may be had: we call this Art, Statike: that
is, the Experimentes of the Balance. Oh, that men wist, what proffit, (all maner of wayes)
by this Arte might grow, to the hable examiner, and diligent practiser. “Thou onely, knowest
all thinges precisely (O God) who hast made weight and Balance, thy Iudgement: who hast created
all thinges in Number, Waight, and Measure: and hast wayed the mountaines and hils in a Balance:
who hast peysed in thy hand, both Heauen and earth. We therfore warned by the Sacred word,
to Consider thy Creatures: and by that consideration, to wynne a glyms (as it were,) or shaddow
of perceiuerance, that thy wisedome, might, and goodnes is infinite, and vnspeakable, in thy
Creatures declared: And being farder aduertised, by thy mercifull goodnes, that, three principall
wayes, were, of the, vsed in Creation of all thy Creatures, namely, Number, Waight and Measure,
And for as much as, of Number and Measure, the two Artes (auncient, famous, and to humaine
vses most necessary,) are, all ready, sufficiently knowen and extant: This third key, we beseche
thee (through thy accustomed goodnes,) that it may come to the nedefull and sufficient knowledge,
of such thy Seruauntes, as in thy workemanship, would gladly finde, thy true occasions (purposely
of the vsed) whereby we should glorifie thy name, and shew forth (to the weaklinges in faith)
thy wondrous wisedome and Goodnes. Amen.”

Meruaile nothing at this pang (godly frend, you Gentle and zelous Student.) An other day, perchaunce,
you will perceiue, what occasion moued me. Here, as now, I will giue you some ground, and withall
some shew, of certaine commodities, by this Arte arising. And bycause this Arte is rare, my
wordes and practises might be to darke: vnleast you had some light, holden before the matter:
and that, best will be, in giuing you, out of Archimedes demonstrations, a few principal Conclusions,
as foloweth.

  +1.+

  +The Superficies of euery Liquor, by it selfe consistyng, and in
  quyet, is Sphæricall: the centre whereof, is the same, which is the
  centre of the Earth.+

  +2.+

  +If Solide Magnitudes, being of the same bignes, or quãtitie, that
  any Liquor is, and hauyng also the same Waight: be let downe into
  the same Liquor, they will settle downeward, so, that no parte of
  them, shall be aboue the Superficies of the Liquor: and yet
  neuertheles, they will not sinke vtterly downe, or drowne.+

  +3.+

  +If any Solide Magnitude beyng Lighter then a Liquor, be let downe
  into the same Liquor, it will settle downe, so farre into the same
  Liquor, that so great a quantitie of that Liquor, as is the parte of
  the Solid Magnitude, settled downe into the same Liquor: is in
  Waight, æquall, to the waight of the whole Solid Magnitude.+

  +4.+

  +Any Solide Magnitude, Lighter then a Liquor, forced downe into the
  same Liquor, will moue vpward, with so great a power, by how much,
  the Liquor hauyng æquall quantitie to the whole Magnitude, is
  heauyer then the same Magnitude.+

  +5.+

  +Any Solid Magnitude, heauyer then a Liquor, beyng let downe into
  the same Liquor, will sinke downe vtterly: And wilbe in that Liquor,
  Lighter by so much, as is the waight or heauynes of the Liquor,
  hauing bygnes or quantitie, æquall to the Solid Magnitude.+

  +6.+

      [I. D.
      The Cutting of a Sphære according to any proportion assigned
      may by this proposition be done Mechanically by tempering
      Liquor to a certayne waight in respect of the waight of the
      Sphære therein Swymming.]

  +If any Solide Magnitude, Lighter then a Liquor, be let downe into
  the same Liquor, the waight of the same Magnitude, will be, to the
  Waight of the Liquor. (Which is æquall in quantitie to the whole
  Magnitude,) in that proportion, that the parte, of the Magnitude
  settled downe, is to the whole Magnitude.+

By these verities, great Errors may be reformed, in Opinion of the Naturall Motion of thinges,
Light and Heauy. Which errors, are in Naturall Philosophie (almost) of all mẽ allowed: to much
trusting to Authority: and false Suppositions. As, +Of any two bodyes, the heauyer, to moue
downward faster then the lighter.+

    [A common error, noted.]

This error, is not first by me, Noted: but by one Iohn Baptist de Benedictis. The chief of
his propositions, is this: which seemeth a Paradox.

+If there be two bodyes of one forme, and of one kynde, æquall in quantitie or vnæquall,

    [A paradox.]

they will moue by æquall space, in æquall tyme: So that both theyr mouynges be in ayre, or
both in water: or in any one Middle.+

Hereupon, in the feate of +Gunnyng+,

    [N. T.]

certaine good discourses (otherwise) may receiue great amendement, and furderance.

    [The wonderfull vse of these Propositions.]

In the entended purpose, also, allowing somwhat to the imperfection of Nature: not aunswerable
to the precisenes of demonstration. Moreouer, by the foresaid propositions (wisely vsed.) The
Ayre, the water, the Earth, the Fire, may be nerely, knowen, how light or heauy they are (Naturally)
in their assigned partes: or in the whole. And then, to thinges Elementall, turning your practise:
you may deale for the proportion of the Elementes, in the thinges Compounded. Then, to the
proportions of the Humours in Man: their waightes: and the waight of his bones, and flesh.
&c. Than, by waight, to haue consideration of the Force of man, any maner of way: in whole
or in part. Then, may you, of Ships water drawing, diuersly, in the Sea and in fresh water,
haue pleasant consideration: and of waying vp of any thing, sonken in Sea or in fresh water
&c. And (to lift vp your head a loft:) by waight, you may, as precisely, as by any instrument
els, measure the Diameters of Sonne and Mone. &c. Frende, I pray you, way these thinges, with
the iust Balance of Reason. And you will finde Meruailes vpon Meruailes: And esteme one Drop
of Truth (yea in Naturall Philosophie) more worth, then whole Libraries of Opinions, vndemonstrated:
or not aunswering to Natures Law, and your experience. Leauing these thinges, thus: I will
giue you two or three, light practises, to great purpose: and so finish my Annotation Staticall.
In Mathematicall matters, by the Mechaniciens ayde, we will behold, here, the Commodity of waight.

    [The practise Staticall, to know the proportion, betwene
    the Cube, and the Sphære.]

Make a Cube, of any one Vniforme: and through like heauy stuffe: of the same Stuffe, make a
Sphære or Globe, precisely, of a Diameter æquall to the Radicall side of the Cube. Your stuffe,
may be wood, Copper, Tinne, Lead, Siluer. &c. (being, as I sayd, of like nature, condition,
and like waight throughout.) And you may, by Say Balance, haue prepared a great number of the
smallest waightes: which, by those Balance can be discerned or tryed: and so, haue proceded
to make you a perfect Pyle, company & Number of waightes: to the waight of six, eight, or twelue
pound waight: most diligently tryed, all. And of euery one, the Content knowen, in your least
waight, that is wayable. [They that can not haue these waightes of precisenes: may, by Sand,
Vniforme, and well dusted, make them a number of waightes, somewhat nere precisenes: by halfing
euer the Sand: they shall, at length, come to a least common waight. Therein, I leaue the farder
matter, to their discretion, whom nede shall pinche.] The Venetians consideration of waight,
may seme precise enough: by eight descentes progressionall, * halfing, from a grayne.

    [I. D.
    * For, so, haue you .256. partes of a Graine.]

Your Cube, Sphære, apt Balance, and conuenient waightes, being ready: fall to worke.❉. First,
way your Cube. Note the Number of the waight. Way, after that, your Sphære. Note likewise,
the Nũber of the waight. If you now find the waight of your Cube, to be to the waight of the
Sphære, as 21. is to 11: Then you see, how the Mechanicien and Experimenter, without Geometrie
and Demonstration, are (as nerely in effect) tought the proportion of the Cube to the Sphere:
as I haue demonstrated it, in the end of the twelfth boke of Euclide. Often, try with the same
Cube and Sphære. Then, chaunge, your Sphære and Cube, to an other matter: or to an other bignes:
till you haue made a perfect vniuersall Experience of it. Possible it is, that you shall wynne
to nerer termes, in the proportion.

When you haue found this one certaine Drop of Naturall veritie, procede on, to Inferre, and
duely to make assay, of matter depending. As, bycause it is well demonstrated, that a Cylinder,
whose heith, and Diameter of his base, is æquall to the Diameter of the Sphære, is Sesquialter
to the same Sphære (that is, as 3. to 2:) To the number of the waight of the Sphære, adde halfe
so much, as it is: and so haue you the number of the waight of that Cylinder. Which is also
Comprehended of our former Cube: So, that the base of that Cylinder, is a Circle described
in the Square, which is the base of our Cube. But the Cube and the Cylinder, being both of
one heith, haue their Bases in the same proportion, in the which, they are, one to an other,
in their Massines or Soliditie. But, before, we haue two numbers, expressing their Massines,
Solidities, and Quantities, by waight: wherfore,

    [* =The proportion of the Square to the Circle inscribed.=]

we haue * the proportion of the Square, to the Circle, inscribed in the same Square. And so
are we fallen into the knowledge sensible, and Experimentall of Archimedes great Secret: of
him, by great trauaile of minde, sought and found. Wherfore, to any Circle giuen, you can giue
a Square æquall:

    [* =The Squaring of the Circle, Mechanically.=]

* as I haue taught, in my Annotation, vpon the first proposition of the twelfth boke, And likewise,
to any Square giuen, you may giue a Circle æquall:

    [* =To any Square geuen, to geue a Circle, equall.=]

* If you describe a Circle, which shall be in that proportion, to your Circle inscribed, as
the Square is to the same Circle: This, you may do, by my Annotations, vpon the second proposition
of the twelfth boke of Euclide, in my third Probleme there. Your diligence may come to a proportion,
of the Square to the Circle inscribed, nerer the truth, then is the proportion of 14. to 11.
And consider, that you may begyn at the Circle and Square, and so come to conclude of the Sphære,
& the Cube, what their proportion is: as now, you came from the Sphære to the Circle. For,
of Siluer, or Gold, or Latton Lamyns or plates (thorough one hole drawẽ, as the maner is) if
you make a Square figure & way it: and then, describing theron, the Circle inscribed: & cut
of, & file away, precisely (to the Circle) the ouerplus of the Square: you shall then, waying
your Circle, see, whether the waight of the Square, be to your Circle, as 14. to 11. As I haue
Noted, in the beginning of Euclides twelfth boke. &c. after this resort to my last proposition,
vpon the last of the twelfth. And there, helpe your selfe, to the end. And, here, Note this,
by the way.

    [Note Squaring of the Circle without knowledge of the
    proportion betwene Circumference and Diameter.]

That we may Square the Circle, without hauing knowledge of the proportion, of the Circumference
to the Diameter: as you haue here perceiued. And otherwayes also, I can demonstrate it. So
that, many haue cumberd them selues superfluously, by trauailing in that point first, which
was not of necessitie, first: and also very intricate. And easily, you may, (and that diuersly)
come to the knowledge of the Circumference: the Circles Quantitie, being first knowen. Which
thing, I leaue to your consideration: making hast to despatch an other Magistrall Probleme:
and to bring it, nerer to your knowledge, and readier dealing with, then the world (before
this day,) had it for you, that I can tell of. And that is, A Mechanicall Dubblyng of the Cube:
&c. Which may, thus, be done:

    [To Dubble the Cube redily: by Art Mechanicall: depending
    vppon Demonstration Mathematicall.]

+Make of Copper plates, or Tyn plates, a foursquare vpright Pyramis, or a Cone: perfectly fashioned
in the holow, within. Wherin, let great diligence be vsed, to approche (as nere as may be)
to the Mathematicall perfection of those figures. At their bases, let them be all open: euery
where, els, most close, and iust to. From the vertex, to the Circumference of the base of the
Cone: & to the sides of the base of the Pyramis:+

    [=I. D.=
    =The 4. sides of this Pyramis must be 4. Isosceles
    Triangles alike and æquall.=]

+Let 4. straight lines be drawen, in the inside of the Cone and Pyramis: makyng at their fall,
on the perimeters of the bases, equall angles on both sides them selues, with the sayd perimeters.
These 4. lines (in the Pyramis: and as many, in the Cone) diuide: one, in 12. æquall partes:
and an other, in 24. an other, in 60, and an other, in 100. (reckenyng vp from the vertex.)
Or vse other numbers of diuision, as experience shall teach you.+

    [=I. D.=
    =* In all workinges with this Pyramis or Cone, Let their
    Situations be in all Pointes and Conditions, alike,
    or all one: while you are about one Worke. Els you
    will erre.=]

+Then, * set your Cone or Pyramis, with the vertex downward, perpendicularly, in respect of
the Base. (Though it be otherwayes, it hindreth nothyng.) So let thẽ most stedily be stayed.+
Now, if there be a Cube, which you wold haue Dubbled. Make you a prety Cube of Copper, Siluer,
Lead, Tynne, Wood, Stone, or Bone. Or els make a hollow Cube, or Cubik coffen, of Copper, Siluer,
Tynne, or Wood &c. These, you may so proportiõ in respect of your Pyramis or Cone, that the
Pyramis or Cone, will be hable to conteine the waight of them, in water, 3. or 4. times: at
the least: what stuff so euer they be made of. Let not your Solid angle, at the vertex, be
to sharpe: but that the water may come with ease, to the very vertex, of your hollow Cone or
Pyramis. Put one of your Solid Cubes in a Balance apt: take the waight therof exactly in water.
Powre that water, (without losse) into the hollow Pyramis or Cone, quietly. Marke in your lines,
what numbers the water Cutteth: Take the waight of the same Cube againe: in the same kinde
of water, which you had before:

    [=I. D.=
    =* Consider well whan you must put your waters togyther:
    and whan, you must empty your first water, out of your
    Pyramis or Cone. Els you will erre.=]

put that* also, into the Pyramis or Cone, where you did put the first. Marke now againe, in
what number or place of the lines, the water Cutteth them. Two wayes you may conclude your
purpose: it is to wete, either by numbers or lines. By numbers: as, if you diuide the side
of your Fundamentall Cube into so many æquall partes, as it is capable of, conueniently, with
your ease, and precisenes of the diuision. For, as the number of your first and lesse line
(in your hollow Pyramis or Cone,) is to the second or greater (both being counted from the
vertex) so shall the number of the side of your Fundamentall Cube, be to the nũber belonging
to the Radicall side, of the Cube, dubble to your Fundamentall Cube: Which being multiplied
Cubik wise, will sone shew it selfe, whether it be dubble or no, to the Cubik number of your
Fundamentall Cube. By lines, thus: As your lesse and first line, (in your hollow Pyramis or
Cone,) is to the second or greater, so let the Radical side of your Fundamẽtall Cube, be to
a fourth proportionall line, by the 12. proposition, of the sixth boke of Euclide. Which fourth
line, shall be the Rote Cubik, or Radicall side of the Cube, dubble to your Fundamentall Cube:
which is the thing we desired.

    [☞ God be thanked for this Inuention, & the fruite ensuing.]

For this, may I (with ioy) say, ΕΥΡΗΚΑ, ΕΥΡΗΚΑ, ΕΥΡΗΚΑ: thanking the holy and glorious Trinity:
hauing greater cause therto, then

    [* Vitruuius. Lib. 9. Cap. 3.]

* Archimedes had (for finding the fraude vsed in the Kinges Crowne, of Gold): as all men may
easily Iudge: by the diuersitie of the frute following of the one, and the other. Where I spake
before, of a hollow Cubik Coffen: the like vse, is of it: and without waight. Thus. Fill it
with water, precisely full, and poure that water into your Pyramis or Cone. And here note the
lines cutting in your Pyramis or Cone. Againe, fill your coffen, like as you did before. Put
that Water, also, to the first. Marke the second cutting of your lines. Now, as you proceded
before, so must you here procede.

    [* Note.]

* And if the Cube, which you should Double, be neuer so great: you haue, thus, the proportion
(in small) betwene your two litle Cubes: And then, the side, of that great Cube (to be doubled)
being the third, will haue the fourth, found, to it proportionall: by the 12. of the sixth
of Euclide.

    [Note, as concerning the Sphæricall Superficies of the Water.]

Note, that all this while, I forget not my first Proposition Staticall, here rehearsed: that,
the Superficies of the water, is Sphæricall. Wherein, vse your discretion: to the first line,
adding a small heare breadth, more: and to the second, halfe a heare breadth more, to his length.
For, you will easily perceaue, that the difference can be no greater, in any Pyramis or Cone,
of you to be handled. Which you shall thus trye. For finding the swelling of the water aboue
leuell.

    [☞]

“Square the Semidiameter, from the Centre of the earth, to your first Waters Superficies. Square
then, halfe the Subtendent of that watry Superficies (which Subtendent must haue the equall
partes of his measure, all one, with those of the Semidiameter of the earth to your watry Superficies):
Subtracte this square, from the first: Of the residue, take the Rote Square. That Rote, Subtracte
from your first Semidiameter of the earth to your watry Superficies: that, which remaineth,
is the heith of the water, in the middle, aboue the leuell.” Which, you will finde, to be a
thing insensible. And though it were greatly sensible, *

    [* Note.]

yet, by helpe of my sixt Theoreme vpon the last Proposition of Euclides twelfth booke, noted:
you may reduce all, to a true Leuell. But, farther diligence, of you is to be vsed, against
accidentall causes of the waters swelling: as by hauing (somwhat) with a moyst Sponge, before,
made moyst your hollow Pyramis or Cone, will preuent an accidentall cause of Swelling, &c.
Experience will teach you abundantly: with great ease, pleasure, and cõmoditie.

Thus, may you Double the Cube Mechanically, Treble it, and so forth, in any proportion.

    [Note this Abridgement of Dubbling the Cube. &c.]

Now will I Abridge your paine, cost, and Care herein. Without all preparing of your Fundamentall
Cubes: you may (alike) worke this Conclusion. For, that, was rather a kinde of Experimentall
demõstration, then the shortest way: and all, vpon one Mathematicall Demonstration depending.
“Take water (as much as conueniently will serue your turne: as I warned before of your Fundamentall
Cubes bignes) Way it precisely. Put that water, into your Pyramis or Cone. Of the same kinde
of water, then take againe, the same waight you had before: put that likewise into the Pyramis
or Cone. For, in eche time, your marking of the lines, how the Water doth cut them, shall geue
you the proportion betwen the Radicall sides, of any two Cubes, wherof the one is Double to
the other: working as before I haue taught you:

    [* ☞ Note.]

* sauing that for you Fundamentall Cube his Radicall side: here, you may take a right line,
at pleasure.”

Yet farther proceding with our droppe of Naturall truth:

    [To giue Cubes one to the other in any proportion,
    Rationall or Irrationall.]

+you may (now) geue Cubes, one to the other, in any proportiõ geuẽ: Rationall or Irrationall+:
on this maner. Make a hollow Parallelipipedon of Copper or Tinne: with one Base wãting, or
open: as in our Cubike Coffen. Frõ the bottome of that Parallelipipedon, raise vp, many perpendiculars,
in euery of his fower sides. Now if any proportion be assigned you, in right lines: Cut one
of your perpendiculars (or a line equall to it, or lesse then it) likewise: by the 10. of the
sixth of Euclide. And those two partes, set in two sundry lines of those perpendiculars (or
you may set them both, in one line) making their beginninges, to be, at the base: and so their
lengthes to extend vpward. Now, set your hollow Parallelipipedon, vpright, perpendicularly,
steadie. Poure in water, handsomly, to the heith of your shorter line. Poure that water, into
the hollow Pyramis or Cone. Marke the place of the rising. Settle your hollow Parallelipipedon
againe. Poure water into it: vnto the heith of the second line, exactly.

    [* Emptying the first.]

Poure that water * duely into the hollow Pyramis or Cone: Marke now againe, where the water
cutteth the same line which you marked before. For, there, as the first marked line, is to
the second: So shall the two Radicall sides be, one to the other, of any two Cubes: which,
in their Soliditie, shall haue the same proportion, which was at the first assigned: were it
Rationall or Irrationall.

Thus, in sundry waies you may furnishe your selfe with such straunge and profitable matter:
which, long hath bene wished for. And though it be Naturally done and Mechanically: yet hath
it a good Demonstration Mathematicall.

    [=The demonstrations of this Dubbling of the Cube, and of the
rest.=]

Which is this: Alwaies, you haue two Like Pyramids: or two Like Cones, in the proportions assigned:
and like Pyramids or Cones, are in proportion, one to the other, in the proportion of their
Homologall sides (or lines) tripled. Wherefore, if to the first, and second lines, found in
your hollow Pyramis or Cone, you ioyne a third and a fourth, in continuall proportion: that
fourth line, shall be to the first, as the greater Pyramis or Cone, is to the lesse: by the
33. of the eleuenth of Euclide. If Pyramis to Pyramis, or Cone to Cone, be double,

    [I. D.
    = * Hereby, helpe your self to become a præcise practiser.
    And so consider, how, nothing at all, you are hindred
    (sensibly) by the Conuexitie of the water.=]

then shall * Line to Line, be also double, &c. But, as our first line, is to the second, so
is the Radicall side of our Fundamentall Cube, to the Radicall side of the Cube to be made,
or to be doubled: and therefore, to those twaine also, a third and a fourth line, in continuall
proportion, ioyned: will geue the fourth line in that proportion to the first, as our fourth
Pyramidall, or Conike line, was to his first: but that was double, or treble, &c. as the Pyramids
or Cones were, one to an other (as we haue proued) therfore, this fourth, shalbe also double
or treble to the first, as the Pyramids or Cones were one to an other: But our made Cube, is
described of the second in proportion, of the fower proportionall lines:

    [= * By the 33. of the eleuenth booke of Euclide.=]

therfore * as the fourth line, is to the first, so is that Cube, to the first Cube: and we
haue proued the fourth line, to be to the first, as the Pyramis or Cone, is to the Pyramis
or Cone: Wherefore the Cube is to the Cube, as Pyramis is to Pyramis, or Cone is to Cone.

    [I. D.
    = * And your diligence in practise, can so (in waight of
    water) performe it: Therefore, now, you are able to geue
    good reason of your whole doing.=]

But we * Suppose Pyramis to Pyramis, or Cone to Cone, to be double or treble. &c. Therfore
Cube, is to Cube, double, or treble, &c. Which was to be demonstrated. And of the Parallelipipedõ,
it is euidẽt, that the water Solide Parallelipipedons, are one to the other, as their heithes
are, seing they haue one base. Wherfore the Pyramids or Cones, made of those water Parallelipipedons,
are one to the other, as the lines are (one to the other) betwene which, our proportion was
assigned. But the Cubes made of lines, after the proportiõ of the Pyramidal or Conik homologall
lines, are one to the other, as the Pyramides or Cones are, one to the other (as we before
did proue) therfore, the Cubes made, shalbe one to the other, as the lines assigned, are one
to the other: Which was to be demonstrated. Note.

    [* Note this Corollary.]

* This, my Demonstratiõ is more generall, then onely in Square Pyramis or Cone: Consider well.
Thus, haue I, both Mathematically and Mechanically, ben very long in wordes: yet (I trust)
nothing tedious to them, who, to these thinges, are well affected. And verily I am forced (auoiding
prolixitie) to omit sundry such things, easie to be practised: which to the Mathematicien,
would be a great Threasure: and to the Mechanicien, no small gaine.

    [* The great Commodities following of these new Inuentions.]

* Now may you, +Betwene two lines giuen, finde two middle proportionals, in Continuall proportion:
by the hollow Parallelipipedon, and the hollow Pyramis, or Cone.+ Now, any Parallelipipedon
rectangle being giuen: thre right lines may be found, proportionall in any proportion assigned,
of which, shal be produced a Parallelipipedon, æquall to the Parallelipipedon giuen. Hereof,
I noted somwhat, vpon the 36. proposition, of the 11. boke of Euclide. Now, all those thinges,
which Vitruuius in his Architecture, specified hable to be done, by dubbling of the Cube: Or,
by finding of two middle proportionall lines, betwene two lines giuen, may easely be performed.
Now, that Probleme, which I noted vnto you, in the end of my Addition, vpon the 34. of the
11. boke of Euclide, is proued possible. Now, may any regular body, be Transformed into an
other, &c. Now, any regular body: any Sphere, yea any Mixt Solid: and (that more is) Irregular
Solides, may be made (in any proportiõ assigned) like vnto the body, first giuen. Thus, of
a Manneken, (as the Dutch Painters terme it) in the same Symmetrie, may a Giant be made: and
that, with any gesture, by the Manneken vsed: and contrarywise. Now, may you, of any Mould,
or Modell of a Ship, make one, of the same Mould (in any assigned proportion) bigger or lesser.

    [* ☞]

Now, may you, of any * Gunne, or little peece of ordinaũce, make an other, with the same Symmetrie
(in all pointes) as great, and as little, as you will. Marke that: and thinke on it. Infinitely,
+may you apply this, so long sought for, and now so easily concluded: and withall, so willingly
and frankly communicated to such, as faithfully deale with vertuous studies.+

    [Such is the Fruite of the Mathematicall Sciences and Artes.]

Thus, can the Mathematicall minde, deale Speculatiuely in his own Arte: and by good meanes,
Mount aboue the cloudes and sterres: And thirdly, he can, by order, Descend, to frame Naturall
thinges, to wonderfull vses: and when he list, retire home into his owne Centre: and there,
prepare more Meanes, to Ascend or Descend by: and, all, to the glory of God, and our honest
delectation in earth.

Although, the Printer, hath looked for this Præface, a day or two, yet could I not bring my
pen from the paper, before I had giuen you comfortable warning, and brief instructions, of
some of the Commodities, by Statike, hable to be reaped: In the rest, I will therfore, be as
brief, as it is possible: and with all, describing them, somwhat accordingly. And that, you
shall perceiue, by this, which in order commeth next. For, wheras, it is so ample and wonderfull,
that, an whole yeare long, one might finde fruitfull matter therin, to speake of: and also
in practise, is a Threasure endeles: yet will I glanse ouer it, with wordes very few.

This do I call +‡Anthropographie‡+. Which is an Art restored, and of my preferment to your
Seruice. I pray you, thinke of it, as of one of the chief pointes, of Humane knowledge. Although
it be, but now, first Cõfirmed, with this new name: yet the matter, hath from the beginning,
ben in consideration of all perfect Philosophers. +Anthropographie, is the description of the
Number, Measure, Waight, figure, Situation, and colour of euery diuerse thing, conteyned in
the perfect body of MAN: with certain knowledge of the Symmetrie, figure, waight, Characterization,
and due locall motion, of any parcell of the sayd body, assigned: and of Nũbers, to the sayd
parcell appertainyng.+ This, is the one part of the Definition, mete for this place: Sufficient
to notifie, the particularitie, and excellency of the Arte: and why it is, here, ascribed to
the Mathematicals. Yf the description of the heauenly part of the world, had a peculier Art,
called Astronomie: If the description of the earthly Globe, hath his peculier arte, called
Geographie. If the Matching of both, hath his peculier Arte, called Cosmographie: Which is
the Descriptiõ of the whole, and vniuersall frame of the world: Why should not the description of

    [MAN is the Lesse World.]

him, who is the Lesse world: and, frõ the beginning, called Microcosmus (that is. The Lesse
World.) And for whose sake, and seruice, all bodily creatures els, were created: Who, also,
participateth with Spirites, and Angels: and is made to the Image and similitude of God: haue
his peculier Art? and be called the Arte of Artes: rather, then, either to want a name, or
to haue to base and impropre a name? You must of sundry professions, borow or challenge home,
peculier partes hereof: and farder procede: as, God, Nature, Reason and Experience shall informe
you. The Anatomistes will restore to you, some part: The Physiognomistes, some: The Chyromantistes
some. The Metaposcopistes, some: The excellent, Albert Durer, a good part: the Arte of Perspectiue,
will somwhat, for the Eye, helpe forward: Pythagoras, Hipocrates, Plato, Galenus, Meletius,
& many other (in certaine thinges) will be Contributaries. And farder, the Heauen, the Earth,
and all other Creatures, will eche shew, and offer their Harmonious seruice, to fill vp, that,
which wanteth hereof: and with your own Experience, concluding: you may Methodically register
the whole, for the posteritie: Whereby, good profe will be had, of our Harmonious, and

    [Micro Cosmus.]

Microcosmicall constitution.

    [* ☞]

The outward Image, and vew hereof: to the Art of Zographie and Painting, to Sculpture, and
Architecture: (for Church, House, Fort, or Ship) is most necessary and profitable: for that,
it is the chiefe base and foundation of them.

    [* Lib. 3. Cap. 1.]

Looke in * Vitruuius, whether I deale sincerely for your behoufe, or no. Looke in Albertus
Durerus, De Symmetria humani Corporis. Looke in the 27. and 28. Chapters, of the second booke,
De occulta Philosophia. Consider the Arke of Noe. And by that, wade farther. Remember the Delphicall
Oracle NOSCE TEIPSVM +(Knowe thy selfe)+ so long agoe pronounced: of so many a Philosopher
repeated: and of the Wisest attempted: And then, you will perceaue, how long agoe, you haue
bene called to the Schole, where this Arte might be learned. Well. I am nothing affrayde, of
the disdayne of some such, as thinke Sciences and Artes, to be but Seuen. Perhaps, those Such,
may, with ignorance, and shame enough, come short of them Seuen also: and yet neuerthelesse
they can not prescribe a certaine number of Artes: and in eche, certaine vnpassable boundes,
to God, Nature, and mans Industrie. New Artes, dayly rise vp: and there was no such order taken,
that,

    [☞]

All Artes, should in one age, or in one land, or of one man, be made knowen to the world. Let
vs embrace the giftes of God, and wayes to wisedome, in this time of grace, from aboue, continually
bestowed on them, who thankefully will receiue them: Et bonis Omnia Cooperabuntur in bonum.

+‡Trochilike,‡ is that Art Mathematicall, which demonstrateth the properties of all Circular
motions, Simple and Compounde.+ And bycause the frute hereof, vulgarly receiued, is in Wheles,
it hath the name of Trochilike: as a man would say, Whele Art. By this art, a Whele may be
geuen which shall moue ones about, in any tyme assigned. Two Wheles may be giuen, whose turnynges
about in one and the same tyme, (or equall tymes), shall haue, one to the other, any proportion
appointed. By Wheles, may a straight line be described: Likewise, a Spirall line in plaine,
Conicall Section lines, and other Irregular lines, at pleasure, may be drawen. These, and such
like, are principall Conclusions of this Arte: and helpe forward many pleasant and profitable
Mechanicall workes:

    [Saw Milles.]

As Milles, to Saw great and very long Deale bordes, no man being by. Such haue I seene in Germany:
and in the Citie of Prage: in the kingdome of Bohemia: Coyning Milles, Hand Milles for Corne
grinding: And all maner of Milles, and Whele worke: By Winde, Smoke, Water, Waight, Spring,
Man or Beast, moued. Take in your hand, Agricola De re Metallica: and then shall you (in all
Mines) perceaue, how great nede is, of Whele worke. By Wheles, straunge workes and incredible,
are done: as will, in other Artes hereafter, appeare. A wonderfull example of farther possibilitie,
and present commoditie, was sene in my time, in a certaine Instrument: which by the Inuenter
and Artificer (before) was solde for xx. Talentes of Golde: and then had (by misfortune) receaued
some iniurie and hurt: And one Ianellus of Cremona did mend the same, and presented it vnto
the Emperour Charles the fifth. Hieronymus Cardanus, can be my witnesse, that therein, was
one Whele, which moued, and that, in such rate, that, in 7000. yeares onely, his owne periode
should be finished. A thing almost incredible: But how farre, I keepe me within my boundes:
very many men (yet aliue) can tell.

+‡Helicosophie‡+, is nere Sister to Trochilike: and is, +An Arte Mathematicall, which demonstrateth
the designing of all Spirall lines in Plaine, on Cylinder, Cone, Sphære, Conoid, and Sphæroid,
and their properties appertayning.+ The vse hereof, in Architecture, and diuerse Instrumentes
and Engines, is most necessary. For, in many thinges, the Skrue worketh the feate, which, els,
could not be performed. By helpe hereof,

    [* Atheneus Lib. 5. cap. 8.]

it is * recorded, that, where all the power of the Citie of Syracusa, was not hable to moue
a certaine Ship (being on ground) mightie Archimedes, setting to, his Skruish Engine, caused
Hiero the king, by him self, at ease, to remoue her, as he would.

    [Proclus. Pag. 18.]

Wherat, the King wondring: Απὸ τάυτης τῆς ἡμέρας, περὶ παντὸς, Αρχιμήδει λέγοντι πιϛευτεόν.
From this day, forward (said the King) Credit ought to be giuen to Archimedes, what soeuer
he sayth.

+‡Pneumatithmie‡ demonstrateth by close hollow Geometricall Figures, (regular and irregular)
the straunge properties (in motion or stay) of the Water, Ayre, Smoke, and Fire, in theyr cõtinuitie,
and as they are ioyned to the Elementes next them.+ This Arte, to the Naturall Philosopher,
is very proffitable: to proue, that Vacuum, or Emptines is not in the world. And that, all
Nature, abhorreth it so much: that, contrary to ordinary law, the Elementes will moue or stand.
As, Water to ascend: rather then betwene him and Ayre, Space or place should be left, more
then (naturally) that quãtitie of Ayre requireth, or can fill. Againe, Water to hang, and not
descend: rather then by descending, to leaue Emptines at his backe. The like, is of Fire and
Ayre: they will descend: when, either, their Cõtinuitie should be dissolued: or their next
Element forced from them. And as they will not be extended, to discontinuitie: So, will they
not, nor yet of mans force, can be prest or pent, in space, not sufficient and aunswerable
to their bodily substance. Great force and violence will they vse, to enioy their naturall
right and libertie.

    [To go to the bottom of the Sea without daunger.]

Hereupon, two or three men together, by keping Ayre vnder a great Cauldron, and forcyng the
same downe, orderly, may without harme descend to the Sea bottome: and continue there a tyme
&c. Where, Note, how the thicker Element (as the Water) giueth place to the thynner (as, is
the ayre:) and receiueth violence of the thinner, in maner. &c. Pumps and all maner of Bellowes,
haue their ground of this Art: and many other straunge deuises. As, Hydraulica, Organes goyng
by water. &c. Of this Feat, (called commonly Pneumatica,) goodly workes are extant, both in
Greke, and Latin. With old and learned Schole men, it is called Scientia de pleno & vacuo.

+‡Menadrie‡, is an Arte Mathematicall, which demonstrateth, how, aboue Natures vertue and power
simple: Vertue and force may be multiplied: and so, to direct, to lift, to pull to, and to
put or cast fro, any multiplied or simple, determined Vertue, Waight or Force: naturally, not,
so, directible or moueable.+ Very much is this Art furdred by other Artes: as, in some pointes,
by Perspectiue: in some, by Statike: in some, by Trochilike: and in other, by Helicosophie:
and Pneumatithmie. By this Art, all Cranes, Gybbettes, & Ingines to lift vp, or to force any
thing, any maner way, are ordred: and the certaine cause of their force, is knowne: As, the
force which one man hath with the Duche waghen Racke: therwith, to set vp agayne, a mighty
waghen laden, being ouerthrowne. The force of the Crossebow Racke, is certainly, here, demonstrated.
The reason, why one mã, doth with a leauer, lift that, which Sixe men, with their handes onely,
could not, so easily do. By this Arte, in our common Cranes in London, where powre is to Crane
vp, the waight of 2000. pound: by two Wheles more (by good order added) Arte concludeth, that
there may be Craned vp 200000. pound waight &c. So well knew Archimedes this Arte: that he
alone, with his deuises and engynes, (twise or thrise) spoyled and discomfited the whole Army
and Hoste of the Romaines, besieging Syracusa,

    [=Plutarchus in Marco Marcello.=]

Marcus Marcellus the Consul, being their Generall Capitaine.

    [=Synesius in Epistolis.=]

Such huge Stones, so many, with such force, and so farre, did he with his engynes hayle among
them, out of the Citie.

    [=Polybius.=]

    [=Plinius.=]

    [=Quintilianus.=]

    [=T. Liuius.=]

And by Sea likewise: though their Ships might come to the walls of Syracusa, yet hee vtterly
confounded the Romaine Nauye. What with his mighty Stones hurlyng:

    [=* Athenæus.=]

what with Pikes of * 18 fote long, made like shaftes: which he forced almost a quarter of a
myle. What, with his catchyng hold of their Shyps, and hoysing them vp aboue the water, and
suddenly letting them fall into the Sea againe:

    [= * Galenus.=]

    [=Anthemius.=]

what with his * Burning Glasses: by which he fired their other Shippes a far-of: what, with
his other pollicies, deuises, and engines, he so manfully acquit him selfe: that all the Force,
courage, and pollicie of the Romaines (for a great season) could nothing preuaile, for the
winning of Syracusa. Wherupon, the Romanes named Archimedes, Briareus, and Centimanus. Zonaras
maketh mention of one Proclus, who so well had perceiued Archimedes Arte of Menadrie, and had
so well inuented of his owne, that with his Burning Glasses,

    [Burning Glasses.]

being placed vpon the walles of Bysance, he multiplied so the heate of the Sunne, and directed
the beames of the same against his enemies Nauie with such force, and so sodeinly (like lightening)
that he burned and destroyed both man and ship. And Dionspecifieth of Priscus, a Geometricien
in Bysance, who inuented and vsed sondry Engins, of Force multiplied: Which was cause, that
the Emperour Seuerus pardoned him, his life, after he had wonne Bysance: Bycause he honored
the Arte, wytt, and rare industrie of Priscus. But nothing inferior to the inuention of these
engines of Force, was the inuention of Gunnes.

    [Gunnes.]

Which, from an English man, had the occasion and order of first inuenting: though in an other
land, and by other men, it was first executed. And they that should see the record, where the
occasion and order generall, of Gunning, is first discoursed of, would thinke: that, “small
thinges, slight, and cõmon: comming to wise mens consideration, and industrious mens handling,
may grow to be of force incredible.”

+‡Hypogeiodie‡, is an Arte Mathematicall, demonstratyng, how, vnder the Sphæricall Superficies
of the earth, at any depth, to any perpendicular line assigned (whose distance from the perpendicular
of the entrance: and the Azimuth, likewise, in respect of the said entrance, is knowen) certaine
way may be præscribed and gone: And how, any way aboue the Superficies of the earth designed,
may vnder earth, at any depth limited, be kept: goyng alwayes, perpendicularly, vnder the way,
on earth designed: And, contrarywise, Any way, (straight or croked,) vnder the earth, beyng
giuen: vppon the vtface, or Superficies of the earth, to Lyne out the same: So, as, from the
Centre of the earth, perpendiculars drawen to the Sphæricall Superficies of the earth, shall
precisely fall in the Correspondent pointes of those two wayes. This, with all other Cases
and circumstances herein, and appertenances, this Arte demonstrateth.+ This Arte, is very ample
in varietie of Conclusions: and very profitable sundry wayes to the Common Wealth. The occasion
of my Inuenting this Arte, was at the request of two Gentlemen, who had a certaine worke (of
gaine) vnder ground: and their groundes did ioyne ouer the worke: and by reason of the crokednes,
diuers depthes, and heithes of the way vnder ground, they were in doubt, and at controuersie,
vnder whose ground, as then, the worke was. The name onely (before this) was of me published,
De Itinere Subterraneo: The rest, be at Gods will. For Pioners, Miners, Diggers for Mettalls,
Stone, Cole, and for secrete passages vnder ground, betwene place and place (as this land hath
diuerse) and for other purposes, any man may easily perceaue, both the great fruite of this
Arte, and also in this Arte, the great aide of Geometrie.

+‡Hydragogie‡, demonstrateth the possible leading of Water, by Natures lawe, and by artificiall
helpe, from any head (being a Spring, standing, or running Water) to any other place assigned.+
Long, hath this Arte bene in vse: and much thereof written: and very marueilous workes therein,
performed: as may yet appeare, in Italy: by the Ruynes remaining of the Aqueductes. In other
places, of Riuers leading through the Maine land, Nauigable many a Mile. And in other places,
of the marueilous forcinges of Water to Ascend. which all, declare the great skill, to be required
of him, who should in this Arte be perfecte, for all occasions of waters possible leading.
To speake of the allowance of the Fall, for euery hundred foote: or of the Ventills (if the
waters labour be farre, and great) I neede not: Seing, at hand (about vs) many expert men can
sufficiently testifie, in effecte, the order: though the Demonstration of the Necessitie thereof,
they know not: Nor yet, if they should be led, vp and downe, and about Mountaines, from the
head of the Spring: and then, a place being assigned: and of them, to be demaunded, how low
or high, that last place is, in respecte of the head, from which (so crokedly, and vp and downe)
they be come: Perhaps, they would not, or could not, very redily, or nerely assoyle that question.
Geometrie therefore, is necessary to Hydragogie. Of the sundry wayes to force water to ascend,
eyther by Tympane, Kettell mills, Skrue, Ctesibike, or such like: in Vitruuius, Agricola, (and
other,) fully, the maner may appeare. And so, thereby, also be most euident, how the Artes,
of Pneumatithmie, Helicosophie, Statike, Trochilike, and Menadrie, come to the furniture of
this, in Speculation, and to the Commoditie of the Common Wealth, in practise.

+‡Horometrie‡, is an Arte Mathematicall, which demõstrateth, how, at all times appointed, the
precise vsuall denominatiõ of time, may be knowen, for any place assigned.+ These wordes, are
smoth and plaine easie Englishe, but the reach of their meaning, is farther, then you woulde
lightly imagine. Some part of this Arte, was called in olde time, Gnomonice: and of late, Horologiographia:
and in Englishe, may be termed, Dialling. Auncient is the vse, and more auncient, is the Inuention.
The vse, doth well appeare to haue bene (at the least) aboue two thousand and three hundred
yeare agoe:

    [4. Reg. 20.]

in * King Achaz Diall, then, by the Sunne, shewing the distinction of time. By Sunne, Mone,
and Sterres, this Dialling may be performed, and the precise Time of day or night knowen. But
the demonstratiue delineation of these Dialls, of all sortes, requireth good skill, both of
Astronomie, and Geometrie Elementall, Sphæricall, Phænomenall, and Conikall. Then, to vse the
groundes of the Arte, for any regular Superficies, in any place offred: and (in any possible
apt position therof) theron, to describe (all maner of wayes) how, vsuall howers, may be (by
the Sunnes shadow) truely determined: will be found no sleight Painters worke. So to Paint,
and prescribe the Sunnes Motion, to the breadth of a heare. In this Feate (in my youth) I Inuented
a way, +How in any Horizontall, Murall, or Æquinoctiall Diall, &c. At all howers (the Sunne
shining) the Signe and Degree ascendent, may be knowen.+ Which is a thing very necessary for
the Rising of those fixed Sterres: whose Operation in the Ayre, is of great might, euidently.
I speake no further, of the vse hereof. Bur forasmuch as, Mans affaires require knowledge of
Times & Momentes, when, neither Sunne, Mone, or Sterre, can be sene: Therefore, by Industrie
Mechanicall, was inuented, first, how, by Water, running orderly, the Time and howers might
be knowen: whereof, the famous Ctesibius, was Inuentor: a man, of Vitruuius, to the Skie (iustly)
extolled. Then, after that, by Sand running, were howers measured: Then, by Trochilike with
waight: And of late time, by Trochilike with Spring: without waight. All these, by Sunne or
Sterres direction (in certaine time) require ouersight and reformation, according to the heauenly
Æquinoctiall Motion: besides the inæqualitie of their owne Operation. There remayneth (without
parabolicall meaning herein) among the Philosophers,

    [A perpetuall Motion.]

a more excellent, more commodious, and more marueilous way, then all these: of hauing the motion
of the Primouant (or first æquinoctiall motion,) by Nature and Arte, Imitated: which you shall
(by furder search in waightier studyes) hereafter, vnderstand more of. And so, it is tyme to
finish this Annotation, of Tymes distinction, vsed in our common, and priuate affaires: The
commoditie wherof, no man would want, that can tell, how to bestow his tyme.

+‡Zographie‡, is an Arte Mathematicall, which teacheth and demonstrateth, how, the Intersection
of all visuall Pyramides, made by any playne assigned, (the Centre, distance, and lightes,
beyng determined) may be, by lynes, and due propre colours, represented.+ A notable Arte, is
this: and would require a whole Volume, to declare the property thereof: and the Commodities
ensuyng. Great skill of Geometrie, Arithmetike, Perspectiue, and Anthropographie, with many
other particular Artes, hath the Zographer, nede of, for his perfection. For, the most excellent
Painter, (who is but the propre Mechanicien, & Imitator sensible, of the Zographer) hath atteined
to such perfection, that Sense of Man and beast, haue iudged thinges painted, to be things
naturall, and not artificiall: aliue, and not dead. This Mechanicall Zographer (commonly called
the Painter) is meruailous in his skill: and seemeth to haue a certaine diuine power: As, of
frendes absent, to make a frendly, present comfort: yea, and of frendes dead, to giue a continuall,
silent presence: not onely with vs, but with our posteritie, for many Ages. And so procedyng,
Consider, How, in Winter, he can shew you, the liuely vew of Sommers Ioy, and riches: and in
Sommer, exhibite the countenance of Winters dolefull State, and nakednes. Cities, Townes, Fortes,
Woodes, Armyes, yea whole Kingdomes (be they neuer so farre, or greate) can he, with ease,
bring with him, home (to any mans Iudgement) as Paternes liuely, of the thinges rehearsed.
In one little house, can he, enclose (with great pleasure of the beholders,) the portrayture
liuely, of all visible Creatures, either on earth, or in the earth, liuing: or in the waters
lying, Creping, slyding, or swimming: or of any foule, or fly, in the ayre flying. Nay, in
respect of the Starres, the Skie, the Cloudes: yea, in the shew of the very light it selfe
(that Diuine Creature) can he match our eyes Iudgement, most nerely. What a thing is this?
thinges not yet being, he can represent so, as, at their being, the Picture shall seame (in
maner) to haue Created them. To what Artificer, is not Picture, a great pleasure and Commoditie?
Which of them all, will refuse the Direction and ayde of Picture? The Architect, the Goldsmith,
and the Arras Weauer: of Picture, make great account. Our liuely Herbals, our portraitures
of birdes, beastes, and fishes: and our curious Anatomies, which way, are they most perfectly
made, or with most pleasure, of vs beholden? Is it not, by Picture onely? And if Picture, by
the Industry of the Painter, be thus commodious and meruailous: what shall be thought of Zographie,
the Scholemaster of Picture, and chief gouernor? Though I mencion not Sculpture, in my Table
of Artes Mathematicall: yet may all men perceiue, How, that Picture and Sculpture, are Sisters
germaine: and both, right profitable, in a Commõ wealth. and of Sculpture, aswell as of Picture,
excellent Artificers haue written great bokes in commendation. Witnesse I take, of Georgio
Vasari, Pittore Aretino: of Pomponius Gauricus: and other. To these two Artes, (with other,)
is a certaine od Arte, called Althalmasat, much beholdyng: more, then the common Sculptor,
Entayler, Keruer, Cutter, Grauer, Founder, or Paynter (&c) know their Arte, to be commodious.

    [An objection.]

+‡Architecture‡+, to many may seme not worthy, or not mete, to be reckned among the Artes Mathematicall.
To whom, I thinke good, to giue some account of my so doyng. Not worthy, (will they say,) bycause
it is but for building, of a house, Pallace, Church, Forte, or such like, grosse workes. And
you, also, defined the Artes Mathematicall, to be such, as dealed with no Materiall or corruptible
thing: and also did demonstratiuely procede in their faculty, by Number or Magnitude. First,

    [The Answer.]

you see, that I count, here, Architecture, among those Artes Mathematicall, which are Deriued
from the Principals: and you know, that such, may deale with Naturall thinges, and sensible
matter. Of which, “some draw nerer, to the Simple and absolute Mathematicall Speculation, then
other do.

    [☞]

And though, the Architect procureth, enformeth, & directeth, the Mechanicien, to handworke,
& the building actuall, of house, Castell, or Pallace, and is chief Iudge of the same: yet,
with him selfe (as chief Master and Architect,) remaineth the Demonstratiue reason and cause,
of the Mechaniciens worke: in Lyne, plaine, and Solid: by Geometricall, Arithmeticall, Opticall,
Musicall, Astronomicall, Cosmographicall” (& to be brief) by all the former Deriued Artes Mathematicall,
and other Naturall Artes, hable to be confirmed and stablished. If this be so: then, may you
thinke, that Architecture, hath good and due allowance, in this honest Company of Artes Mathematicall
Deriuatiue. I will, herein, craue Iudgement of two most perfect Architectes: the one, being
Vitruuius, the Romaine: who did write ten bookes thereof, to the Emperour Augustus (in whose
daies our Heauenly Archemaster, was borne): and the other, Leo Baptista Albertus, a Florentine:
who also published ten bookes therof. Architectura (sayth Vitruuius) est Scientia pluribus
disciplinis & varijs eruditionibus ornata: cuius Iudicio probantur omnia, quæ ab cæteris Artificibus
perficiuntur opera. That is. +Architecture, is a Science garnished with many doctrines & diuerse
instructions: by whose Iudgement, all workes, by other workmen finished, are Iudged.+ It followeth.
Ea nascitur ex Fabrica, & Ratiocinatione. &c. Ratiocinatio autem est, quæ, res fabricatas,
Solertia ac ratione proportionis, demonstrare at[que] explicare potest. +Architecture, groweth
of Framing, and Reasoning. &c. Reasoning, is that, which of thinges framed, with forecast,
and proportion: can make demonstration, and manifest declaration.+ Againe. Cùm, in omnibus
enim rebus, tùm maximè etiam in Architectura, hæc duo insunt: quod significatur, & quod significat.
Significatur proposita res, de qua dicitur: hanc autem Significat Demonstratio, rationibus
doctrinarum explicata. +Forasmuch as, in all thinges: therefore chiefly in Architecture, these
two thinges are: the thing signified: and that which signifieth. The thing propounded, whereof
we speake, is the thing Signified. But Demonstration, expressed with the reasons of diuerse
doctrines, doth signifie the same thing.+ After that. Vt literatus sit, peritus Graphidos,
eruditus Geometriæ, & Optices non ignarus: instructus Arithmetica: historias complures nouerit,
Philosophos diligenter audiuerit: Musicam sciuerit: Medicinæ non sit ignarus, responsa Iurisperitorũ
nouerit: Astrologiam, Cæli[que] rationes cognitas habeat. +An Architect+ (sayth he) +ought
to vnderstand Languages, to be skilfull of Painting, well instructed in Geometrie, not ignorant
of Perspectiue, furnished with Arithmetike, haue knowledge of many histories, and diligently
haue heard Philosophers, haue skill of Musike, not ignorant of Physike, know the aunsweres
of Lawyers, and haue Astronomie, and the courses Cælestiall, in good knowledge.+ He geueth
reason, orderly, wherefore all these Artes, Doctrines, and Instructions, are requisite in an
excellent Architect. And (for breuitie) omitting the Latin text, thus he hath. +Secondly, it
is behofefull for an Architect to haue the knowledge of Painting: that he may the more easilie
fashion out, in patternes painted, the forme of what worke he liketh. And Geometrie, geueth
to Architecture many helpes: and first teacheth the Vse of the Rule, and the Cumpasse: wherby
(chiefly and easilie) the descriptions of Buildinges, are despatched in Groundplats: and the
directions of Squires, Leuells, and Lines. Likewise, by Perspectiue, the Lightes of the heauen,
are well led, in the buildinges: from certaine quarters of the world. By Arithmetike, the charges
of Buildinges are summed together: the measures are expressed, and the hard questions of Symmetries,
are by Geometricall Meanes and Methods discoursed on. &c. Besides this, of the Nature of thinges
(which in Greke is called φυσιολογία) Philosophie doth make declaration. Which, it is necessary,
for an Architect, with diligence to haue learned: because it hath many and diuers naturall
questions: as specially, in Aqueductes. For in their courses, leadinges about, in the leuell
ground, and in the mountinges, the naturall Spirites or breathes are ingendred diuers wayes:
The hindrances, which they cause, no man can helpe, but he, which out of Philosophie, hath
learned the originall causes of thinges. Likewise, who soeuer shall read Ctesibius, or Archimedes
bookes, (and of others, who haue written such Rules) can not thinke, as they do: vnlesse he
shall haue receaued of Philosophers, instructions in these thinges. And Musike he must nedes
know: that he may haue vnderstanding, both of Regular and Mathematicall Musike: that he may
temper well his Balistes, Catapultes, and Scorpions. &c. Moreouer, the Brasen Vessels, which
in Theatres, are placed by Mathematicall order, in ambries, vnder the steppes: and the diuersities
of the soundes (which y^e Grecians call ηχεῖα) are ordred according to Musicall Symphonies
& Harmonies: being distributed in y^e Circuites, by Diatessaron, Diapente, and Diapason. That
the conuenient voyce, of the players sound, whẽ it came to these preparations, made in order,
there being increased: with y^t increasing, might come more cleare & pleasant, to y^e eares
of the lokers on. &c. And of Astronomie, is knowẽ y^e East, West, South, and North. The fashion
of the heauen, the Æquinox, the Solsticie, and the course of the sterres. Which thinges, vnleast
one know: he can not perceiue, any thyng at all, the reason of Horologies. Seyng therfore this
ample Science, is garnished, beautified and stored, with so many and sundry skils and knowledges:
I thinke, that none can iustly account them selues Architectes, of the suddeyne. But they onely,
who from their childes yeares, ascendyng by these degrees of knowledges, beyng fostered vp
with the atteynyng of many Languages and Artes, haue wonne to the high Tabernacle of Architecture.
&c. And to whom Nature hath giuen such quicke Circumspection, sharpnes of witt, and Memorie,
that they may be very absolutely skillfull in Geometrie, Astronomie, Musike, and the rest of
the Artes Mathematicall: Such, surmount and passe the callyng, and state, of Architectes:

    [A Mathematicien.]

and are become Mathematiciens. &c. And they are found, seldome. As, in tymes past, was Aristarchus
Samius: Philolaus, and Archytas, Tarentynes: Apollonius Pergęus: Eratosthenes Cyreneus: Archimedes,
and Scopas, Syracusians. Who also, left to theyr posteritie, many Engines and Gnomonicall workes:
by numbers and naturall meanes, inuented and declared.+

Thus much, and the same wordes (in sense) in one onely Chapter of this Incõparable Architect
Vitruuius, shall you finde. And if you should, but take his boke in your hand, and slightly
loke thorough it, you would say straight way:

    [Vitruuius.]

This is Geometrie, Arithmetike, Astronomie, Musike, Anthropographie, Hydragogie, Horometrie.
&c. and (to cõclude) the Storehouse of all workmãship. Now, let vs listen to our other Iudge,
our Florentine, Leo Baptista: and narrowly consider, how he doth determine of Architecture.
Sed ante[que] vltra progrediar. &c. +But before I procede any further +(sayth he) +I thinke,
that I ought to expresse, what man I would haue to bee allowed an Architect. For, I will not
bryng in place a Carpenter: as though you might Compare him to the Chief Masters of other Artes.
For the hand of the Carpenter, is the Architectes Instrument.+

    [VVho is an Architect.]

+But I will appoint the Architect to be “that man, who hath the skill, (by a certaine and meruailous
meanes and way,) both in minde and Imagination to determine and also in worke to finish: what
workes so euer, by motion of waight, and cuppling and framyng together of bodyes, may most
aptly be Commodious for the worthiest Vses of Man.” And that he may be able to performe these
thinges, he hath nede of atteynyng and knowledge of the best, and most worthy thynges. &c.
The whole Feate of Architecture in buildyng, consisteth in Lineamentes, and in Framyng. And
the whole power and skill of Lineamentes, tendeth to this: that the right and absolute way
may be had, of Coaptyng and ioyning Lines and angles: by which, the face of the buildyng or
frame, may be comprehended and concluded. And it is the property of Lineamentes, to prescribe
vnto buildynges, and euery part of them, an apt place, & certaine nũber: a worthy maner, and
a semely order: that, so, y^e whole forme and figure of the buildyng, may rest in the very
Lineamentes. &c. And we may prescribe in mynde and imagination the whole formes, *

    [* The Immaterialitie of perfect Architecture.]

all material stuffe beyng secluded. Which point we shall atteyne, by Notyng and forepointyng
the angles, and lines, by a sure and certaine direction and connexion. Seyng then, these thinges,
are thus:+

    [What, Lineament is.]

+Lineamente, shalbe the certaine and constant prescribyng, conceiued in mynde: made in lines
and angles: and finished with a learned minde and wyt.+ “We thanke you Master Baptist, that
you haue so aptly brought your Arte, and phrase therof, to haue some Mathematicall perfection:

    [Note.]

by certaine order, nũber, forme, figure, and Symmetrie mentall:” all naturall & sensible stuffe
set a part. Now, then, it is euident, (Gentle reader) how aptely and worthely, I haue preferred
Architecture, to be bred and fostered vp in the Dominion of the pereles Princesse, Mathematica:
and to be a naturall Subiect of hers. And the name of Architecture, is of the principalitie,
which this Science hath, aboue all other Artes. And Plato affirmeth, the Architect to be Master
ouer all, that make any worke. Wherupon, he is neither Smith, nor Builder: nor, separately,
any Artificer: but the Hed, the Prouost, the Directer, and Iudge of all Artificiall workes,
and all Artificers. For, the true Architect, is hable to teach, Demonstrate, distribute, describe,
and Iudge all workes wrought. And he, onely, searcheth out the causes and reasons of all Artificiall
thynges. Thus excellent, is Architecture: though few (in our dayes) atteyne thereto: yet may
not the Arte, be otherwise thought on, then in very dede it is worthy. Nor we may not, of auncient
Artes, make new and imperfect Definitions in our dayes: for scarsitie of Artificers: No more,
than we may pynche in, the Definitions of Wisedome, or Honestie, or of Frendeshyp or of Iustice.
No more will I consent, to Diminish any whit, of the perfection and dignitie, (by iust cause)
allowed to absolute Architecture. Vnder the Direction of this Arte, are thre principall, necessary
Mechanicall Artes. Namely, Howsing, Fortification, and Naupegie. Howsing, I vnderstand, both
for Diuine Seruice, and Mans common vsage: publike, and priuate. Of Fortification and Naupegie,
straunge matter might be told you: But perchaunce, some will be tyred, with this Bederoll,
all ready rehearsed: and other some, will nycely nip my grosse and homely discoursing with
you: made in post hast: for feare you should wante this true and frendly warnyng, and tast
giuyng, of the Power Mathematicall. Lyfe is short, and vncertaine: Tymes are perilouse: &c.
And still the Printer awayting, for my pen staying: All these thinges, with farder matter of
Ingratefulnes, giue me occasion to passe away, to the other Artes remainyng, with all spede
possible.

+The Arte of ‡Nauigation‡, demonstrateth how, by the shortest good way, by the aptest Directiõ,
& in the shortest time, a sufficient Ship, betwene any two places (in passage Nauigable,) assigned:
may be cõducted: and in all stormes, & naturall disturbances chauncyng, how, to vse the best
possible meanes, whereby to recouer the place first assigned.+ What nede, the Master Pilote,
hath of other Artes, here before recited, it is easie to know: as, of Hydrographie, Astronomie,
Astrologie, and Horometrie. Presupposing continually, the common Base, and foundacion of all:
namely Arithmetike and Geometrie. So that, he be hable to vnderstand, and Iudge his own necessary
Instrumentes, and furniture Necessary: Whether they be perfectly made or no: and also can,
(if nede be) make them, hym selfe. As Quadrantes, The Astronomers Ryng, The Astronomers staffe,
The Astrolabe vniuersall. An Hydrographicall Globe. Charts Hydrographicall, true, (not with
parallell Meridians). The Common Sea Compas: The Compas of variacion: The Proportionall, and
Paradoxall Compasses

    [Anno. 1559.]

(of me Inuented, for our two Moscouy Master Pilotes, at the request of the Company) Clockes
with spryng: houre, halfe houre, and three houre Sandglasses: & sundry other Instrumẽtes: And
also, be hable, on Globe, or Playne to describe the Paradoxall Compasse: and duely to vse the
same, to all maner of purposes, whereto it was inuented. And also, be hable to Calculate the
Planetes places for all tymes.

Moreouer, with Sonne Mone or Sterre (or without) be hable to define the Longitude & Latitude
of the place, which he is in: So that, the Longitude & Latitude of the place, from which he
sayled, be giuen: or by him, be knowne. whereto, appertayneth expert meanes, to be certified
euer, of the Ships way. &c. And by foreseing the Rising, Settyng, Nonestedyng, or Midnightyng
of certaine tempestuous fixed Sterres: or their Coniunctions, and Anglynges with the Planetes,
&c. he ought to haue expert coniecture of Stormes, Tempestes, and Spoutes: and such lyke Meteorologicall
effectes, daungerous on Sea. For (as Plato sayth,) Mutationes, opportunitates[que] temporum
presentire, non minus rei militari, quàm Agriculturæ, Nauigationi[que] conuenit. +To foresee
the alterations and opportunities of tymes, is conuenient, no lesse to the Art of Warre, then
to Husbandry and Nauigation.+ And besides such cunnyng meanes, more euident tokens in Sonne
and Mone, ought of hym to be knowen: such as (the Philosophicall Poëte) Virgilius teacheth,
in hys Georgikes. Where he sayth,

    [Sidenote: Georgic. 1.]

  Sol quo[que] & exoriens & quum se condet in vndas,
  Signa dabit, Solem certissima signa sequuntur. &c.
    -------- Nam sæpe videmus,
  Ipsius in vultu varios errare colores.
  Cæruleus, pluuiam denunciat, igneus Euros.
  Sin maculæ incipient rutilo immiscerier igni,
  Omnia tum pariter vento, nimbis[que] videbis
  Feruere: non illa quisquam me nocte per altum
  Ire, ne[que] a terra moueat conuellere funem. &c.
  Sol tibi signa dabit. Solem quis dicere falsum
  Audeat? -------- &c.

And so of Mone, Sterres, Water, Ayre, Fire, Wood, Stones, Birdes, and Beastes, and of many
thynges els, a certaine Sympathicall forewarnyng may be had: sometymes to great pleasure and
proffit, both on Sea and Land. Sufficiently, for my present purpose, it doth appeare, by the
premisses, how Mathematicall, the Arte of Nauigation, is: and how it nedeth and also vseth
other Mathematicall Artes: And now, if I would go about to speake of the manifold Commodities,
commyng to this Land, and others, by Shypps and Nauigation, you might thinke, that I catch
at occasions, to vse many wordes, where no nede is.

Yet, this one thyng may I, (iustly) say. In Nauigation, none ought to haue greater care, to
be skillfull, then our English Pylotes. And perchaunce, Some, would more attempt: And other
Some, more willingly would be aydyng, it they wist certainely, What Priuiledge, God had endued
this Iland with, by reason of Situation, most commodious for Nauigation, to Places most Famous
& Riche. And though,

    [* Anno. 1567 S. H. G.]

(of * Late) a young Gentleman, a Courragious Capitaine, was in a great readynes, with good
hope, and great causes of persuasion, to haue ventured, for a Discouerye, (either Westerly,
by Cape de Paramantia: or Esterly, aboue Noua Zemla, and the Cyremisses) and was, at the very
nere tyme of Attemptyng, called and employed otherwise (both then, and since,) in great good
seruice to his Countrey, as the Irish Rebels haue * tasted:

    [* Anno. 1569]

Yet, I say, (though the same Gentleman, doo not hereafter, deale therewith) Some one, or other,
should listen to the Matter: and by good aduise, and discrete Circumspection, by little, and
little, wynne to the sufficient knowledge of that +Trade+ and +Voyage+: Which, now, I would
be sory, (through Carelesnesse, want of Skill, and Courrage,) should remayne Vnknowne and vnheard
of. Seyng, also, we are herein, halfe Challenged, by the learned, by halfe request, published.
Therof, verely, might grow Commoditye, to this Land chiefly, and to the rest of the Christen
Common wealth, farre passing all riches and worldly Threasure.

+‡Thaumaturgike‡, is that Art Mathematicall, which giueth certaine order to make straunge workes,
of the sense to be perceiued, and of men greatly to be wondred at.+ By sundry meanes, this
Wonder-worke is wrought. Some, by Pneumatithmie. As the workes of Ctesibius and Hero, Some
by waight. wherof Timæus speaketh. Some, by Stringes strayned, or Springs, therwith Imitating
liuely Motions. Some, by other meanes, as the Images of Mercurie: and the brasen hed, made
by Albertus Magnus, which dyd seme to speake. Boethius was excellent in these feates. To whom,
Cassiodorus writyng, sayth. +Your purpose is to know profound thynges: and to shew meruayles.
By the disposition of your Arte, Metals do low: Diomedes of brasse, doth blow a Trumpet loude:
a brasen Serpent hisseth: byrdes made, sing swetely. Small thynges we rehearse of you, who
can Imitate the heauen. &c.+ Of the straunge Selfmouyng, which, at Saint Denys, by Paris,

    [* Anno. 1551]

* I saw, ones or twise (Orontius beyng then with me, in Company) it were to straunge to tell.
But some haue written it. And yet, (I hope) it is there, of other to be sene. And by Perspectiue
also straunge thinges, are done. As partly (before) I gaue you to vnderstand in Perspectiue.
As, to see in the Ayre, a loft, the lyuely Image of an other man, either walkyng to and fro:
or standyng still. Likewise, to come into an house, and there to see the liuely shew of Gold,
Siluer or precious stones: and commyng to take them in your hand, to finde nought but Ayre.
Hereby, haue some men (in all other matters counted wise) fouly ouershot thẽ selues: misdeaming
of the meanes. Therfore sayd Claudius Cælestinus.

    [De his quæ Mundo mirabiliter eueniunt. cap. 8.]

Hodie magnæ literaturæ viros & magna reputationis videmus, opera quedam quasi miranda, supra
Naturã putare: de quibus in Perspectiua doctus causam faciliter reddidisset. That is. +Now
a dayes, we see some men, yea of great learnyng and reputation, to Iudge certain workes as
meruaylous, aboue the power of Nature: Of which workes, one that were skillfull in Perspectiue
might easely haue giuen the Cause.+ Of Archimedes Sphære, Cicero witnesseth.

    [Tusc. 1.]

Which is very straunge to thinke on. +For when Archimedes+ (sayth he) +did fasten in a Sphære,
the mouynges of the Sonne, Mone, and of the fiue other Planets, he did, as the God, which (in
Timæus of Plato) did make the world. That, one turnyng, should rule motions most vnlike in
slownes, and swiftnes.+ But a greater cause of meruayling we haue by Claudianus report hereof.
Who affirmeth this Archimedes worke, to haue ben of Glasse. And discourseth of it more at large:
which I omit. The Doue of wood, which the Mathematicien Archytas did make to flye, is by Agellius
spoken of. Of Dædalus straunge Images, Plato reporteth. Homere of Vulcans Selfmouers, (by secret
wheles) leaueth in writyng. Aristotle, in hys Politikes, of both, maketh mention. Meruaylous
was the workemanshyp, of late dayes, performed by good skill of Trochilike. &c. For in Noremberge,
A flye of Iern, beyng let out of the Artificers hand, did (as it were) fly about by the gestes,
at the table, and at length, as though it were weary, retourne to his masters hand agayne.
Moreouer, an Artificiall Egle, was ordred, to fly out of the same Towne, a mighty way, and
that a loft in the Ayre, toward the Emperour comming thether: and followed hym, beyng come
to the gate of the towne. *

    [* ☞]

Thus, you see, what, Arte Mathematicall can performe, when Skill, will, Industry, and Hability,
are duely applyed to profe.

    [A Digression.]

And for these, and such like marueilous Actes and Feates, Naturally, Mathematically, and Mechanically,
wrought and contriued:

    [Apologeticall.]

ought any honest Student, and Modest Christian Philosopher, be counted, & called a +Coniurer+?
Shall the folly of Idiotes, and the Mallice of the Scornfull, so much preuaile, that He, who
seeketh no worldly gaine or glory at their handes: But onely, of God, the threasor of heauenly
wisedome, & knowledge of pure veritie: Shall he (I say) in the meane space, be robbed and spoiled
of his honest name and fame? He that seketh (by S. Paules aduertisement) in the Creatures Properties,
and wonderfull vertues, to finde iuste cause, to glorifie the Æternall, and Almightie Creator
by: Shall that man, be (in hugger mugger) condemned, as a Companion of the Helhoundes, and
a Caller, and Coniurer of wicked and damned Spirites? He that bewaileth his great want of time,
sufficient (to his contentation) for learning of Godly wisdome, and Godly Verities in: and
onely therin setteth all his delight: Will that mã leese and abuse his time, in dealing with
the Chiefe enemie of Christ our Redemer: the deadly foe of all mankinde: the subtile and impudent
peruerter of Godly Veritie: the Hypocriticall Crocodile: the Enuious Basiliske, continually
desirous, in the twinke of an eye, to destroy all Mankinde, both in Body and Soule, æternally?
Surely (for my part, somewhat to say herein) I haue not learned to make so brutish, and so
wicked a Bargaine. Should I, for my xx. or xxv. yeares Studie: for two or three thousand Markes
spending: seuen or eight thousand Miles going and trauailing, onely for good learninges sake:
And that, in all maner of wethers: in all maner of waies and passages: both early and late:
in daunger of violence by man: in daunger of destruction by wilde beastes: in hunger: in thirst:
in perilous heates by day, with toyle on foote: in daungerous dampes of colde, by night, almost
bereuing life: (as God knoweth): with lodginges, oft times, to small ease: and somtime to lesse
securitie. And for much more (then all this) done & suffred, for Learning and attaining of
Wisedome: Should I (I pray you) for all this, no otherwise, nor more warily: or (by Gods mercifulnes)
no more luckily, haue fished, with so large, and costly, a Nette, so long time in drawing (and
that with the helpe and aduise of Lady Philosophie, & Queene Theologie): but at length, to
haue catched, and drawen vp, * a Frog?

    [* A prouerb. Fayre fisht, and caught a Frog.]

Nay, a Deuill? For, so, doth the Common peuish Pratler Imagine and Iangle: And, so, doth the
Malicious skorner, secretly wishe, & brauely and boldly face down, behinde my backe. Ah, what
a miserable thing, is this kinde of Men? How great is the blindnes & boldnes, of the Multitude,
in thinges aboue their Capacitie? What a Land: what a People: what Maners: what Times are these?
Are they become Deuils, them selues: and, by false witnesse bearing against their Neighbour,
would they also, become Murderers? Doth God, so long geue them respite, to reclaime them selues
in, from this horrible slaundering of the giltlesse: contrary to their owne Consciences: and
yet will they not cease? Doth the Innocent, forbeare the calling of them, Iuridically to aunswere
him, according to the rigour of the Lawes: and will they despise his Charitable pacience? As
they, against him, by name, do forge, fable, rage, and raise slaunder, by Worde & Print: Will
they prouoke him, by worde and Print, likewise, to Note their Names to the World: with their
particular deuises, fables, beastly Imaginations, and vnchristen-like slaunders? Well: Well.
O (you such) my vnkinde Countrey men. O vnnaturall Countrey men. O vnthankfull Countrey men.
O Brainsicke, Rashe, Spitefull, and Disdainfull Countrey men. Why oppresse you me, thus violently,
with your slaundering of me: Contrary to Veritie: and contrary to your owne Consciences? And
I, to this hower, neither by worde, deede, or thought, haue bene, any way, hurtfull, damageable,
or iniurious to you, or yours? Haue I, so long, so dearly, so farre, so carefully, so painfully,
so daungerously sought & trauailed for the learning of Wisedome, & atteyning of Vertue: And
in the end (in your iudgemẽt) am I become, worse, then when I begã? Worse, thẽ a Mad man? A
dangerous Member in the Common Wealth: and no Member of the Church of Christ? Call you this,
to be Learned? Call you this, to be a Philosopher? and a louer of Wisedome? To forsake the
straight heauenly way: and to wallow in the broad way of damnation? To forsake the light of
heauenly Wisedome: and to lurke in the dungeon of the Prince of darkenesse? To forsake the
Veritie of God, & his Creatures: and to fawne vpon the Impudent, Craftie, Obstinate Lier, and
continuall disgracer of Gods Veritie, to the vttermost of his power? To forsake the Life &
Blisse Æternall: and to cleaue vnto the Author of Death euerlasting? that Murderous Tyrant,
most gredily awaiting the Pray of Mans Soule? Well: I thanke God and our Lorde Iesus Christ,
for the Comfort which I haue by the Examples of other men, before my time: To whom, neither
in godlines of life, nor in perfection of learning, I am worthy to be compared: and yet, they
sustained the very like Iniuries, that I do: or rather, greater. Pacient Socrates, his Apologie
will testifie: Apuleius his Apologies, will declare the Brutishnesse of the Multitude. Ioannes
Picus, Earle of Mirandula, his Apologie will teach you, of the Raging slaunder of the Malicious
Ignorant against him. Ioannes Trithemius, his Apologie will specifie, how he had occasion to
make publike Protestation: as well by reason of the Rude Simple: as also, in respect of such,
as were counted to be of the wisest sort of men. “Many could I recite: But I deferre the precise
and determined handling of this matter: being loth to detect the Folly & Mallice of my Natiue
Countrey men. *

    [* ☞]

Who, so hardly, can disgest or like any extraordinary course of Philosophicall Studies: not
falling within the Cumpasse of their Capacitie: or where they are not made priuie of the true
and secrete cause, of such wonderfull Philosophicall Feates.” These men, are of fower sortes,
chiefly. The first, I may name, Vaine pratling busie bodies: The second, Fond Frendes: The
third, Imperfectly zelous: and the fourth, Malicious Ignorant. To eche of these (briefly, and
in charitie) I will say a word or two, and so returne to my Præface.

    [1.]

Vaine pratling busie bodies, vse your idle assemblies, and conferences, otherwise, then in
talke of matter, either aboue your Capacities, for hardnesse: or contrary to your Consciences,
in Veritie.

    [2.]

Fonde Frendes, leaue of, so to commend your vnacquainted frend, vpon blinde affection: As,
because he knoweth more, then the common Student: that, therfore, he must needes be skilfull,
and a doer, in such matter and maner, as you terme Coniuring. Weening, thereby, you aduaunce
his fame: and that you make other men, great marueilers of your hap, to haue such a learned
frend. Cease to ascribe Impietie, where you pretend Amitie. For, if your tounges were true,
then were that your frend, Vntrue, both to God, and his Soueraigne. Such Frendes and Fondlinges,
I shake of, and renounce you: Shake you of, your Folly.

    [3.]

Imperfectly zelous, to you, do I say: that (perhaps) well, do you Meane: But farre you misse
the Marke: If a Lambe you will kill, to feede the flocke with his bloud. Sheepe, with Lambes
bloud, haue no naturall sustenaunce: No more, is Christes flocke, with horrible slaunders,
duely ædified. Nor your faire pretense, by such rashe ragged Rhetorike, any whit, well graced.
But such, as so vse me, will finde a fowle Cracke in their Credite. Speake that you know: And
know, as you ought: Know not, by Heare say, when life lieth in daunger. Search to the quicke,
& let Charitie be your guide.

    [4.]

Malicious Ignorant, what shall I say to thee? Prohibe linguam tuam a malo. A detractione parcite
linguæ. +Cause thy toung to refraine frõ euill. Refraine your toung from slaunder.+ Though
your tounges be sharpned, Serpent like, & Adders poyson lye in your lippes:

    [Psal. 140.]

yet take heede, and thinke, betimes, with your selfe, Vir linguosus non stabilietur in terra.
Virum violentum venabitur malum, donec præcipitetur. For, sure I am, Quia faciet Dominus Iudicium
afflicti: & vindictam pauperum.

Thus, I require you, my assured frendes, and Countrey men (you Mathematiciens, Mechaniciens,
and Philosophers, Charitable and discrete) to deale in my behalf, with the light & vntrue tounged,
my enuious Aduersaries, or Fond frends. And farther, I would wishe, that at leysor, you would
consider, how Basilius Magnus, layeth Moses and Daniel, before the eyes of those, which count
all such Studies Philosophicall (as mine hath bene) to be vngodly, or vnprofitable. Waye well
S. Stephen his witnesse of Moses.

    [Act. 7. C.]

Eruditus est Moses omni Sapientia Ægyptiorũ: & erat potens in verbis & operibus suis. +Moses
was instructed in all maner of wisedome of the Ægyptians: and he was of power both in his wordes,
and workes.+ You see this Philosophicall Power & Wisedome, which Moses had, to be nothing misliked
of the Holy Ghost. Yet Plinius hath recorded, Moses to be a wicked Magicien. And that (of force)
must be, either for this Philosophicall wisedome, learned, before his calling to the leading
of the Children of Israel: or for those his wonders, wrought before King Pharao, after he had
the conducting of the Israelites. As concerning the first, you perceaue, how S. Stephen, at
his Martyrdome (being full of the Holy Ghost) in his Recapitulation of the olde Testament,
hath made mention of Moses Philosophie: with good liking of it: And Basilius Magnus also, auoucheth
it, to haue bene to Moses profitable (and therefore, I say, to the Church of God, necessary).
But as cõcerning Moses wonders, done before King Pharao: God, him selfe, sayd: Vide vt omnia
ostenta, quæ posui in manu tua, facias coram Pharaone. +See that thou do all those wonders
before Pharao, which I haue put in thy hand.+ Thus, you euidently perceaue, how rashly, Plinius
hath slaundered Moses,

    [Lib. 30. Cap. 1.]

of vayne fraudulent Magike, saying: Est & alia Magices Factio, a Mose, Iamne, & Iotape, Iudæis
pendens: sed multis millibus annorum post Zoroastrem. &c.

    [1.]

Let all such, therefore, who, in Iudgement and Skill of Philosophie, are farre Inferior to
Plinie, “take good heede, least they ouershoote them selues rashly,” in

    [☞]

Iudging of Philosophers straunge Actes: and the Meanes, how they are done.

    [2.]

But, much more, ought they to beware of forging, deuising, and imagining monstrous feates,
and wonderfull workes, when and where, no such were done: no, not any sparke or likelihode,
of such, as they, without all shame, do report.

    [3.]

And (to conclude) most of all, let them be ashamed of Man, and afraide of the dreadfull and
Iuste Iudge: both Folishly or Maliciously to deuise: and then, deuilishly to father their new
fond Monsters on me: Innocent, in hand and hart: for trespacing either against the lawe of
God, or Man, in any my Studies or Exercises, Philosophicall, or Mathematicall: As in due time,
I hope, will be more manifest.

Now end I, with +‡Archemastrie‡+. Which name, is not so new, as this Arte is rare. For an other
Arte, vnder this, a degree (for skill and power) hath bene indued with this English name before.
And yet, this, may serue for our purpose, sufficiently, at this present. +This Arte, teacheth
to bryng to actuall experience sensible, all worthy conclusions by all the Artes Mathematicall
purposed, & by true Naturall Philosophie concluded: & both addeth to them a farder scope, in
the termes of the same Artes, & also by hys propre Method, and in peculier termes, procedeth,
with helpe of the foresayd Artes, to the performance of complet Experiẽces, which of no particular
Art, are hable (Formally) to be challenged.+ If you remember, how we considered Architecture,
in respect of all common handworkes: some light may you haue, therby, to vnderstand the Souerainty
and propertie of this Science. Science I may call it, rather, then an Arte: for the excellency
and Mastershyp it hath, ouer so many, and so mighty Artes and Sciences. And bycause it procedeth
by Experiences, and searcheth forth the causes of Conclusions, by Experiences: and also putteth
the Conclusions them selues, in Experience, it is named of some, Scientia Experimentalis. The
+Experimentall Science+. Nicolaus Cusanus termeth it so, in hys Experimentes Statikall, And
an other Philosopher,

    [R. B.]

of this land Natiue (the floure of whose worthy fame, can neuer dye nor wither) did write therof
largely, at the request of Clement the sixt. The Arte carrieth with it, a wonderfull Credit:
By reason, it certefieth, sensibly, fully, and completely to the vtmost power of Nature, and
Arte. This Arte, certifieth by Experience complete and absolute: and other Artes, with their
Argumentes, and Demonstrations, persuade: and in wordes, proue very well their Conclusions. *

    [☞]

But wordes, and Argumentes, are no sensible certifying: nor the full and finall frute of Sciences
practisable. And though some Artes, haue in them, Experiences, yet they are not complete, and
brought to the vttermost, they may be stretched vnto, and applyed sensibly. As for example:
the Naturall Philosopher disputeth and maketh goodly shew of reason: And the Astronomer, and
the Opticall Mechanicien, put some thynges in Experience: but neither, all, that they may:
nor yet sufficiently, and to the vtmost, those, which they do, There, then, the Archemaster
steppeth in, and leadeth forth on, the Experiences, by order of his doctrine Experimentall,
to the chief and finall power of Naturall and Mathematicall Artes. Of two or three men, in
whom, this Description of Archemastry was Experimentally, verified, I haue read and hard: and
good record, is of their such perfection. So that, this Art, is no fantasticall Imagination:
as some Sophister, might, Cum suis Insolubilibus, make a florish: and dassell your Imagination:
and dash your honest desire and Courage, from beleuing these thinges, so vnheard of, so meruaylous,
& of such Importance. Well: as you will. I haue forewarned you. I haue done the part of a frende:
I haue discharged my Duety toward God: for my small Talent, at hys most mercyfull handes receiued.
To this Science, doth the Science Alnirangiat, great Seruice. Muse nothyng of this name. I
chaunge not the name, so vsed, and in Print published by other: beyng a name, propre to the
Science. Vnder this, commeth Ars Sintrillia, by Artephius, briefly written. But the chief Science,
of the Archemaster, (in this world) as yet knowen, is an other (as it were) OPTICAL Science:
wherof, the name shall be told (God willyng) when I shall haue some, (more iust) occasion,
therof, to Discourse.

Here, I must end, thus abruptly (Gentle frende, and vnfayned louer of honest and necessary
verities.) For, they, who haue (for your sake, and vertues cause) requested me, (an old forworne
Mathematicien) to take pen in hand: (through the confidence they reposed in my long experience:
and tryed sincerity) for the declaryng and reportyng somewhat, of the frute and commodity,
by the +Artes Mathematicall, to be atteyned vnto+: euen they, Sore agaynst their willes, are
forced, for sundry causes, to satisfie the workemans request, in endyng forthwith: He, so feareth
this, so new an attempt, & so costly: And in matter so slenderly (hetherto) among the common
Sorte of Studentes, considered or estemed.

And where I was willed, somewhat to alledge, why, in our vulgare Speche, this part of the Principall
Science of Geometrie, called Euclides Geometricall Elementes, is published, to your handlyng:
being vnlatined people, and not Vniuersitie Scholers: Verily, I thinke it nedelesse.

    [1.]

For, the Honour, and Estimation of the +Vniuersities, and Graduates+, is, hereby, nothing diminished.
Seing, from, and by their Nurse Children, you receaue all this Benefite: how great soeuer it be.

    [2.]

Neither are their Studies, hereby, any whit hindred. No more, then the Italian Vniuersities,
as Academia Bononiensis, Ferrariensis, Florentina, Mediolanensis, Patauina, Papiensis, Perusina,
Pisana, Romana, Senensis, or any one of them, finde them selues, any deale, disgraced, or their
Studies any thing hindred, by Frater Lucas de Burgo, or by Nicolaus Tartalea, who in vulgar
Italian language, haue published, not onely Euclides Geometrie, but of Archimedes somewhat:
and in Arithmetike and Practicall Geometrie, very large volumes, all in their vulgar speche.
Nor in Germany haue the famous Vniuersities, any thing bene discontent with Albertus Durerus,
his Geometricall Institutions in Dutch: or with Gulielmus Xylander, his learned translation
of the first sixe bookes of Euclide, out of the Greke into the high Dutch. Nor with Gualterus
H. Riffius, his Geometricall Volume: very diligently translated into the high Dutch tounge,
and published. Nor yet the Vniuersities of Spaine, or Portugall, thinke their reputation to
be decayed: or suppose any their Studies to be hindred by the Excellent P. Nonnius, his Mathematicall
workes, in vulgare speche by him put forth. Haue you not, likewise, in the French tounge, the
whole Mathematicall Quadriuie? and yet neither Paris, Orleance, or any of the other Vniuersities
of Fraunce, at any time, with the Translaters, or Publishers offended: or any mans Studie thereby
hindred?

    [3.]

And surely, the Common and Vulgar Scholer (much more, the Gramarian) before his comming to
the Vniuersitie, shall (or may) be, now (according to Plato his Counsell) sufficiently instructed
in Arithmetike and Geometrie, for the better and easier learning of all maner of Philosophie,
Academicall, or Peripateticall. And by that meanes, goe more cherefully, more skilfully, and
spedily forwarde, in his Studies, there to be learned. And, so, in lesse time, profite more,
then (otherwise) he should, or could do.

    [4.]

Also many good and pregnant Englishe wittes, of young Gentlemen, and of other, who neuer intend
to meddle with the profound search and Studie of Philosophie (in the Vniuersities to be learned)
may neuerthelesse, now, with more ease and libertie, haue good occasion, vertuously to occupie
the sharpnesse of their wittes: where, els (perchance) otherwise, they would in fond exercises,
spend (or rather leese) their time: neither seruing God: nor furdering the Weale, common or
priuate.

    [5.]

And great Comfort, with good hope, may the Vniuersities haue, by reason of this Englishe +Geometrie,
and Mathematicall Præface+, that they (hereafter) shall be the more regarded, esteemed, and
resorted vnto. For, when it shall be knowen and reported, that of the Mathematicall Sciences
onely, such great Commodities are ensuing (as I haue specified): and that in dede, some of
you vnlatined Studentes, can be good witnesse, of such rare fruite by you enioyed (thereby):
as either, before this, was not heard of: or els, not so fully credited: “Well, may all men
coniecture, that farre greater ayde, and better furniture, to winne to the Perfection of all
Philosophie,

    [Vniuersities.]

may in the Vniuersities be had: being the Storehouses & Threasory of all Sciences,

    [☞]

and all Artes, necessary for the best, and most noble State of Common Wealthes.”

    [6.]

Besides this, how many a Common Artificer, is there, in these Realmes of England and Ireland,
that dealeth with Numbers, Rule, & Cumpasse: Who, with their owne Skill and experience, already
had, will be hable (by these good helpes and informations) to finde out, and deuise, new workes,
straunge Engines, and Instrumentes: for sundry purposes in the Common Wealth? or for priuate
pleasure? and for the better maintayning of their owne estate? I will not (therefore) fight
against myne owne shadowe. For, no man (I am sure) will open his mouth against this Enterprise.
No mã (I say) who either hath Charitie toward his brother (and would be glad of his furtherance
in vertuous knowledge): or that hath any care & zeale for the bettering of the Cõmon state
of this Realme. Neither any, that make accompt, what the wiser sort of men (Sage and Stayed)
do thinke of them. To none (therefore) will I make any Apologie, for a vertuous acte doing:
and for cõmending, or setting forth, Profitable Artes to English men, in the English toung.
“But, vnto God our Creator, let vs all be thankefull: for that, +As he, of his Goodnes, by
his Powre, and in his wisedome,

    [☞]

hath Created all thynges, in Number, Waight, and Measure+: So, to vs, of hys great Mercy, he
hath reuealed Meanes, whereby, to atteyne the sufficient and necessary knowledge of the foresayd
hys three principall Instrumentes: Which Meanes, I haue abundantly proued vnto you, to be the
Sciences and Artes Mathematicall.”

And though I haue ben pinched with straightnes of tyme: that, no way, I could so pen downe
the matter (in my Mynde) as I determined: hopyng of conuenient laysure: Yet. if vertuous zeale,
and honest Intent prouoke and bryng you to the readyng and examinyng of this Compendious treatise,
I do not doute, but, as the veritie therof (accordyng to our purpose) will be euident vnto
you: So the pith and force therof, will persuade you: and the wonderfull frute therof, highly
pleasure you. And that you may the easier perceiue, and better remember, the principall pointes,
whereof my Preface treateth,

    [The Ground platt of this Præface in a Table.]

I will giue you the +Groundplatt+ of my whole discourse, in a Table annexed: from the first
to the last, somewhat Methodically contriued.

If Hast, hath caused my poore pen, any where, to stumble: You will,
  (I am sure) in part of recompence, (for my earnest and sincere
    good will to pleasure you), Consider the rockish huge
      mountaines, and the perilous vnbeaten wayes, which
        (both night and day, for the while) it hath
          toyled and labored through, to bryng you
            this good Newes, and Comfortable
              profe, of Vertues frute.

    So, I Commit you vnto Gods Mercyfull direction, for the rest:
      hartely besechyng hym, to prosper your Studyes, and
        honest Intentes: to his Glory, & the Commodity
          of our Countrey. Amen.

                     Written at my poore House
                     At Mortlake.

                      Anno. 1570. February. 9.

  [Decoration]

      J. DEE

  +‡Here haue you (according to my promisse) the Groundplat of‡+
    +my MATHEMATICALL Præface: annexed to Euclide (now first)+
       published in our Englishe tounge. An. 1570. Febr. 3.

+‡Sciences, and Artes Mathematicall,‡ are, either+

  +‡Principall,‡ which are two, onely,+

    +Arithmetike.+

      +‡Simple‡+, Which dealeth with Numbers onely: and demonstrateth
        all their properties and appertenances: where, an Vnit, is
        Indiuisible.
      +‡Mixt‡+, Which with aide of Geometrie principall, demonstrateth
        some Arithmeticall Conclusion, or Purpose.

    +Geometrie.+

      +‡Simple‡+, Which dealeth with Magnitudes, onely: and
        demonstrateth all their properties, passions, and
        appertenances: whose Point, is Indiuisible.
      +‡Mixt‡+, Which with aide of Arithmetike principall,
        demonstrateth some Geometricall purpose, as +EVCLIDES
        ELEMENTES+.

    +‡The vse‡ whereof, is either,+

      In thinges Supernaturall, æternall, & Diuine: By Application,
        Ascending.
      In thinges Mathematicall: without farther Application.
      In thinges Naturall: both Substãtiall, & Accidentall, Visible,
        & Inuisible. &c. By Application: Descending.

    The like Vses and Applications are, (though in a degree lower) in
    the +Artes Mathematicall Deriuatiue+.

  +‡Deriuatiue‡ frõ the Principalls: of which, some haue+

    +‡The names of‡ the Principalls: as,+

      +Arithmetike, vulgar: which considereth+

        --Arithmetike of most vsuall whole numbers: And of Fractions to
        them appertaining.
        --Arithmetike of Proportions.
        --Arithmetike Circular.
        --Arithmetike of Radicall Nũbers: Simple, Compound, Mixt: And of
        their Fractions.
        --Arithmetike of Cossike Nũbers: with their Fractions: And the
        great Arte of Algiebar.

      +Geometrie, vulgar: which teacheth Measuring+

        +‡At hand‡+

          All Lengthes.--+Mecometrie.+
          All Plaines: As, Land, Borde, Glasse, &c.--+Embadometrie.+
          All Solids: As, Timber, Stone, Vessels, &c.--+Stereometrie.+

        +‡With distãce‡+ from the thing Measured, as,

          +‡How farre‡+, from the Measurer, any thing is: of him
            sene, on Land or Water: called +Apomecometrie+.
          +‡How high or deepe‡+, from the leuell of the Measurers
            standing, any thing is: Seene of hym, on Land or Water:
            called +Hypsometrie+.
          +‡How broad‡+, a thing is, which is in the Measurers view:
            so it be situated on Land or Water: called
            +Platometrie+.

        +‡Of which‡ are growen the Feates & Artes of+

          +Geodesie+: more cunningly to Measure and Suruey Landes,
            Woods, Waters. &c.
          +Geographie.+
          +Chorographie.+
          +Hydrographie.+
          +Stratarithmetrie.+

    +‡Propre names‡ as+,

      +Perspectiue,+--Which demonstrateth the maners and properties
      of all Radiations: Directe, Broken, and Reflected.

      +Astronomie,+--Which demonstrateth the Distances, Magnitudes,
      and all Naturall motions, Apparences, and Passions, proper to
      the Planets and fixed Starres: for any time, past, present, and
      to come: in respecte of a certaine Horizon, or without respecte
      of any Horizon.

      +Musike,+--Which demonstrateth by reason, and teacheth by
      sense, perfectly to iudge and order the diuersitie of Soundes,
      hie or low.

      +Cosmographie,+--Which, wholy and perfectly maketh description
      of the Heauenlym and also Elementall part of the World: and of
      these partes, maketh homologall application, and mutuall
      collation necessary.

      +Statike,+--Which demonstrateth the causes of heauines and
      lightnes of all thinges: and of the motions and properties to
      heauines and lightnes belonging.

      +Anthropographie,+ Which describeth the Nũber, Measure, Waight,
      Figure, Situation, and colour of euery diuers thing contained in
      the perfecte body of MAN: and geueth certaine knowledge of the
      Figure, Symmetrie, Waight, Characterization, & due Locall motion
      of any percell of the said body assigned: and of numbers to the
      said percell appertaining.

      +Trochilike,+--Which demonstrateth the properties of all
      Circular motions: Simple and Compound.

      +Horometrie,+--Which demonstrateth, how, at all times
      appointed, the precise, vsuall denomination of time, may be
      knowen, for any place assigned.

      +Zographie,+--Which demonstrateth and teacheth, how, the
      Intersection of all visuall Pyramids, made by any plaine
      assigned (the Center, distance, and lightes being determined)
      may be, by lines, and proper colours represented.

      +Architecture,+--Which is a Science garnished with many
      doctrines, and diuers Instructions: by whose iudgement, all
      workes by other workmen finished, are iudged.

      +Nauigation,+--Which demonstrateth, how, by the Shortest good
      way, by the aptest direction, and in the shortest time:
      a sufficient Shippe, betwene any two places (in passage
      nauigable) assigned, may be conducted: and in all stormes and
      naturall disturbances chauncing, how to vse the best possible
      meanes, to recouer the place first assigned.

+¶ Imprinted by Iohn Day.+

An. 1570. Feb. 25.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errors and Anomalies:

Unless otherwise noted, spelling and punctuation are unchanged. Errors are listed below, with
the original form, if changed, shown in [brackets]. Unusual words include “fatch” (probably
used as a variant of “fetch”) and the mathematical terms “sexagene” and “sexagesme”.

  How, worldly goods: how, worldly dignitie
    [“o” in second “worldly” invisible]
  his most diligent hearers (so infinitely mought  [hearers) so]
  the boundes, and duety of an Hydrographer  [Hydographer]
  of the Grekes it is called Eteromekes
    [text unchanged: correct form is “Heteromekes”]
  τὸ ὁτὶ  [accent unchanged]
  in our worldly affaires  [wordly]
  fall to worke.❉.
    [Some text readers may not display the oversized-asterisk symbol.]
  Emptying the first.
  The Latin “-que” was written as an abbreviation resembling “-q´;”.
    It is shown here as [que].

  Mathematical symbols seen in the section accompanying the diagrams
  could not be reproduced. The following substitutions were made:
    --The curly “P” used for “Pounds” is shown as {P}.
    --The “potestas” symbol, used to represent “x” (the unknown),
    is shown as {x}.
    --All roots were expressed as the “root” sign √ combined with
    symbols for the power of 2 (doubled for power of 4, or fourth root)
    and 3. They are shown as ²√ ³√ ⁴√.

Euclid:

The following Propositions were identified by number.

6.12: (How) to find a fourth (line) proportional to three given straight lines.

11.34: In equal parallelepipedal solids the bases are reciprocally proportional to the heights;
and those parallelepipedal solids in which the bases are reciprocally proportional to the heights
are equal.

11.36: If three straight lines are proportional, then the parallelepipedal solid formed out
of the three equals the parallelepipedal solid on the mean which is equilateral, but equiangular
with the aforesaid solid.

12.1: Similar polygons inscribed in circles are to one another as the squares on their diameters.

12.2: Circles are to one another as the squares on their diameters.

12.18 (“last”): Spheres are to one another in triplicate ratio of their respective diameters.

