BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE

       *       *       *       *       *

No. CCCXXX.   APRIL, 1843.   VOL. LIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

  THE PRACTISE OF AGRICULTURE,
  POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER.--NO. VII.,
  THE LAST OF THE SHEPHERDS,
  THE FOUNDING OF THE BELL. BY CHARLES MACKAY,
  AMMALAT BEK. A TRUE TALE OF THE CAUCASUS FROM THE
      RUSSIAN OF MARLINSKY.--CHAPTER III.,
  OCCUPATION OF ADEN,
  SONNET,
  CALEB STUKLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. CCCXXX. APRIL, 1843. VOL. LIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRACTICE OF AGRICULTURE

Skilful practice is applied science. This fact is illustrated in every chapter of the excellent
and comprehensive work now before us [1].

In a previous article, (see the number for June 1842,) we illustrated at some length the connexion
which now exists, and which hereafter must become more intimate, between practical agriculture
and modern science. We showed by what secret and silent steps the progress and gradual diffusion
of modern scientific discoveries had imperceptibly led to great improvements in the agriculture
of the present century--by what other more open and manifest applications of science it had
directly, and in the eyes of all, been advanced--to what useful practical discussions the promulgation
of scientific opinions had given rise--and to what better practice such discussions had eventually
led. Above all, we earnestly solicited the attention of the friends of agriculture to what
science seemed not only capable of doing, but anxious also to effect, for the further advance
of this important art--what new lessons to give, new suggestions to offer, and new means of
fertility to place in the hands of, the skilful experimental farmer.

It is but a comparatively short time since that article was written, and yet the spread of
sound opinion, of correct and enlightened views, and of a just appreciation, as well of the
aids which science is capable of giving to agriculture, as of the expediency of availing ourselves
of all these aids, which within that period has taken place among practical men, has really
surprised us. Nor have we been less delighted by the zeal with which the pursuit of scientific
knowledge, in its relations to agriculture, has been entered upon in every part of the empire--by
the progress which has been made in the acquisition of this knowledge--and by the numerous
applications already visible of the important principles and suggestions embodied in the works
then before us, (JOHNSTON's Lectures and Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology.) But
on this important topic we do not at present dwell. We may have occasion to return to the subject
in a future number, and in the mean time we refer our readers to the remarks contained in our
previous article.

The truly scientific man--among those, we mean, who devote themselves to such studies as are
susceptible of important applications to the affairs and pursuits of daily life--the truly
scientific man does not despise the practice of any art, in which he sees the principles he
investigates embodied and made useful in promoting the welfare of his fellow-men. He does not
even undervalue it--he rather upholds and magnifies its importance, as the agent or means by
which his greatest and best discoveries can be made to subserve their greatest and most beneficent
end. In him this may possibly arise from no unusual liberality of mind; it may spring from
a selfish desire to see the principles he has established or made his own carried out to their
legitimate extent, and their value established and acknowledged--for it is the application
of a principle that imparts to it its highest value.

[Footnote 1: THE BOOK OF THE FARM. By Henry Stephens.]

Science is to practical skill in the arts of life as the soul is to the body. They are united
as faith and works are in concerns of higher moment. As both, though separately good, must
yet be united in the finished Christian, so the perfection of husbandry implies the union of
all the lights of existing theoretical knowledge with all the skill of the most improved agricultural
practice.

Though such is the belief of those scientific men who are able and willing to do the most for
practical agriculture, who see most clearly what can be done for it, and the true line along
which agricultural improvement may now most hopefully direct her course--yet with this opinion
the greater part of practical men are still far from sympathizing. Some voices even--becoming
every day more feeble, however, and recurring at more distant intervals--continue to be raised
against the utility and the applications of science; as if practice with stationary knowledge
were omnipotent in developing the resources of nature; as if a man, in a rugged and partially
explored country, could have too much light to guide his steps.

In the history of maritime intercourse there was a time when the timid seaman crept from port
to port, feeling his cautious and wary way from headland to headland, and daring no distant
voyage where seas, and winds, and rocks, unknown to him, increased the dangers of his uncertain
life. Then a bolder race sprung up--tall ships danced proudly upon the waves, and many brave
hearts manned and guided them; yet still they rarely ventured from sight of land. Men became
bewildered still, perplexed, and full of fear, when sea and sky alone presented themselves.
But a third period arose--and in the same circumstances, men not more brave appeared collected,
fearless, and full of hope. Faith in a trembling needle gave confidence to the most timorous,
and neither the rough Atlantic nor the wide Pacific could deter the bold adventurer, or the
curious investigator of nature.

And yet it was not till this comparatively advanced stage of the nautical art--when man had
obtained a faithful guide in his most devious and trackless wanderings--when he was apparently
set free from the unsteady dominion of the seas and of the fickle winds--and amid his labyrinthine
course could ever and at once turn his face towards his happy and expectant home;--it was not
till this period that science began to lend her most useful and most extensive aids, and that
her value in the advancement of the sailor's art began to be justly appreciated. The astronomer
forthwith taught him more accurately to observe the heavens, and compiled laborious tables
for his daily use. Geography and hydrography obtained higher estimation, and harbour-engineering
and ship-building were elevated into more important separate arts, chiefly from their applications
to his use. Nautical schools and nautical surveys, and lighthouse boards, with all their attendant
scientific researches, and magnetic observations, and voyages of discovery all sprung up--at
once the causes and the consequences of the advancement of his art towards perfection; and
latest, though yet far from being the last, all the new knowledge that belongs to steam-navigation
has been incorporated in the vast body of nautical science. The further an art advances, the
more necessary does science become to it.

Thus it is with agriculture. It cannot be denied that the tillage of the soil, with almost
every other branch of husbandry, has made large strides among us--that we have more productive
and better cultivated provinces, and more skilful farmers, than are to be found in any other
part of the world in which equal disadvantages of climate prevail. Any one will readily satisfy
himself of this, who, with an agricultural eye, shall visit the other parts of Europe to which
the same northern sky is common with ourselves. And it is because we have reached this pitch
of improvement--at which many think we ought to be content to stop--because we have dismissed
our frail and diminutive boats, and sail now in majestic and decorated ships, provided with
such abundant stores that we need not, night by night, to seek the harbour for new supplies--that
we begin to feel the want of some directing principle--to look about for some favouring star
to guide our wanderings upon the deep. To the tremblirg needle of science we must now turn
to point our way. Feeble and uncertain it may itself appear--wavering as it directs us--and
therefore by many may be depreciated and despised--yet it will surely lead us right if we have
faith in its indications. Let the practical man then build his ships skilfully and well after
the best models, and of the soundest oak--let their timbers be Kyanized, their cables of iron,
their cordage and sails of the most approved make and material--let their sailors be true men
and fearless, and let stores be providently laid in for the voyage; but let not the trembling
needle of science be forgotten; for though the distant harbour he would gain be well known
to him--without the aid of the needle he may never be able to reach it.

In thus rigging out his ship--in other words, in fitting up his farm and doing all for it,
and upon it, which experience and skilful practice can suggest--he cannot have a better guide
than the book now before us.

THE BOOK OF THE FARM is not a mere didactic treatise on practical agriculture, of which we
already possess several of deserved reputation; nor yet a laborious compilation, systematically
arranged, of every thing which, in the opinion of the author, it should interest the farmer
to know. Of such Cyclopædias, that of Loudon will not soon find a rival. But, as its name implies,
The Book of the Farm contains a detail of all the operations, the more minute as well as the
greater, which the husbandman will be called upon to undertake upon his farm--in the exact
order in point of time in which they will successively demand his attention. Beginning at the
close of the agricultural year, when the crops are reaped and housed, and the long winter invites
to new and peculiar, and, as they may be called, preparatory labours, the reader is taught
what work in each succeeding month and season should be undertaken--why at that season for
what purpose it is to be done-in what way it can best be performed--how at the least cost of
money and the smallest waste of time--and how the master may at all times ascertain if his
work has been efficiently performed.

We confess that we have been much struck with the wide range of practical subjects on which
the author gives, in such a way a to show that he is himself familiar with them, the most minute
directions for the guidance at once of the master farmer himself, and for the direction of
those who are under his orders. We have satisfied ourselves that by carefully examining the
contents of this one book, we should be prepared not merely to pass an examination, but actually
to undertake the office of public examiner in any or all of the several crafts and mysteries
of the farm-builder, the weather-seer, the hedge-planter, the ditcher, the drainer, the ploughman,
the cattle-feeder, the stock-buyer, the drover, the pig-killer, the fat cattle seller, the
butcher, the miller, and the grieve or general overseer of the farm. We know not what other
gentle crafts the still unpublished parts of the work may hereafter teach us; but so faithfully
and so minutely, in general so clearly, and with so much apparent enjoyment, does the author
enter into the details of all the above lines of life, that we have been deceived (we suppose)
into the persuasion that Mr. Stephens must, in his lifetime, have "played many parts"--that
he has himself, as occasion offered, or as work fell in his way, engaged in every one of these
as well as of the other varied occupations it falls in his way to describe.

How, otherwise, for instance, should he so well understand the duties and habits, and sympathize
with the privations and simple enjoyments of the humble and way-worn drover?--

"A drover of sheep should always be provided with a dog, as the numbers and nimbleness of sheep
render it impossible for one man to guide a capricious flock along a road subject to many casualties;
not a young dog, who is apt to work and bark a great deal more than necessary, much to the
annoyance of the sheep--but a knowing cautious tyke. The drover should have a walking stick,
a useful instrument at times in turning a sheep disposed to break off from the rest. A shepherd's
plaid he will find to afford comfortable protection to his body from cold and wet, while the
mode in which it is worn leaves his limbs free for motion. He should carry provision with him,
such as bread, meat, cheese or butter, that he may take luncheon or dinner quietly beside his
flock, while resting in a sequestered part of the road; and he may slake his thirst in the
first brook or spring he finds, or purchase a bottle of ale at a roadside ale-house. Though
exposed all day to the air, and even though he feel cold, he should avoid drinking spirits,
which only produce temporary warmth, and for a long time after induce chilliess and languor.
Much rather let him reserve the allowance of spirits he gives himself until the evening, when
he can enjoy it in warm toddy beside a comfortable fire, before retiring to rest for the night."
--Vol. ii. p. 89.

Then how knowingly he treats of the fat upon the sheep:--

"The formation of fat in a sheep commences in the inside, the net of fat which envelopes the
intestines being first formed. After that, fat is seen on the outside, and first upon the end
of the rump at the tail head, which continues to move on along the back, on both sides of the
spine to the bend of the ribs, to the neck. Then it is deposited between the muscles, parallel
with the cellular tissue. Meanwhile it is covering the lower round of the ribs, descending
to the flanks until the two sides meet under the belly, from whence it proceeds to the brisket
or breast in front and the shaw behind, filling up the inside of the arm-pits and thighs. The
spaces around the fibres of the muscles are the last to receive a deposition of fat, but after
this has begun, every other part simultaneously receives its due share, the back and kidneys
receiving the most--so much so that the former literally becomes nicked, as it is termed; that
is, the fat is felt through the skin to be divided into two portions. When all this has been
accomplished, the sheep is said to be fat or ripe."--Vol. ii. p. 93.

But the enjoyment of tracing the accumulating fat is not enough for our author--as soon as
his sheep is ripe, he forthwith proceeds to slaughter it; and though he describes every part
of this process accurately, and with true professional relish, coolly telling us, that "the
operation is unattended with cruelty;" yet we must be content to refer our readers to the passage
(vol. ii. p. 96) as an illustration of his skill in this interesting branch of farm-surgery.
He is really an amiable sheep-operator, our author--what placid benevolence and hatred of quackery
appear in his instructions-- "Learn to slaughter gently, dress the carcass neatly and cleanly,
in as plain a manner as possible, and without flourishes."--p. 167.

But whisky-toddy and fat mutton are not the only things our author relishes. He must have been
a farm-servant, living in a bothy, at least as long as he drove on the road or practised surgery
in the slaughter-house. After describing the farm-servant's wages and mode of living, he thus
expands upon the subject of Scottish brose:--

"The oatmeal is usually cooked in one way, as brose. A pot of water is put on the fire to boil--a
task which the men (in the bothy) take in turns; a handful or two of oatmeal is taken out of
the small chest with which each man provides himself, and put into a wooden bowl, which also
is the ploughman's property; and, on a hollow being made in the meal, and sprinkled with salt,
the boiling-water is poured over the meal, and the mixture receiving a little stirring with
a horn-spoon, and the allowance of milk poured over it, the brose is ready to be eaten; and,
as every man makes his own brose, and knows his own appetite, he makes just as much as he can
consume." [2]

[Footnote 2: "The fare is simple, and is as simply made, but it must be wholesome, and capable
of supplying the loss of substance occasioned by hard labour; for I believe that no class of
men can endure more bodily fatigue for ten hours every day, than those ploughmen of Scotland
who subsist on this brose three times a-day."--Vol. ii. p. 384.]

But if the life of the ploughman is familiar to our author, the work he has to do, and the
mode of doing it well, and the reason why it should be done one way here, and another way there,
are no less so. The uninitiated have no idea of the complicated patterns which the ploughman
works, according to the nature of the soil and the season of the year in which he labours.
He may be "gathering up--crown-and-furrow ploughing--casting, or yoking, or coupling ridges--casting
ridges with gore furrows--cleaving down ridges with or without gore furrows--ploughing two-out-and-two-in--ploughing
in breaks--cross-furrowing--angle-ploughing, ribbing, and drilling--or he may be preparing
the land by feering or striking the ridges."-- (Vol. i. p. 464.) All these methods of turning
up the land are described and illustrated by wood-cuts, and we are sure quite as effectually
done upon paper as if the author had been explaining them upon his own farm, guiding one of
his own best ploughs, and strengthened by a basin of good brose made from his own meal-chest.

But the practical skill of Mr. Stephens is not confined to the lower walks of the agricultural
life. The ploughman sometimes qualifies himself to become a steward, that he may rid himself
of the drudgery of working horses. He has then new duties to perform, which are thus generally
described.

"The duty of the steward or grieve, as he is called in some parts of Scotland, and bailiff
in England, consists in receiving general instructions from his master, the farmer, which he
sees executed by the people under his charge. He exercises a direct control over the ploughmen
and field-workers.... It is his duty to enforce the commands of his master, and to check every
deviation from rectitude he may observe in the servants against his interests. It is not generally
understood that he has control over the shepherd, the hedger, or the cattleman, who are stewards,
in one sense, over their respective departments of labour.... He should always deliver the
daily allowance of corn to the horses. He should be the first person out of bed in the morning,
and the last in it at night. On most farms, he sows the seed in spring, superintends the field-workers
in summer, tends the harvest-field and builds the stacks in autumn, and thrashes the corn with
the mill, and cleans it with the winnowing-machine in winter. He keeps an account of the workpeople's
time, and of the quantity of grain thrashed, consumed on the farm, and delivered to purchasers."--Vol.
i. p. 221.

The practical man who reads the above detail of the steward's duties, will see at once that
it must have been written by "one of themselves;" and, by its correctness, will be able to
judge of the full faith which may be placed in the numerous other details upon every branch
of practical farming with which the work now before us is so full.

We have brought prominently forward the above extracts in relation to the minutiae of the farmer's
life--to the detailed practical knowledge which is so valuable to him, as being those upon
which it appeared to us that a writer who was capable of getting up a book at all, much more
such a book as this professes to be, in reference to the higher branches of the farmers' art,
was most likely to fail. But these parts of the work are written not only knowingly and well,
but with an evident relish for the subject. Let us turn, therefore, to the more intellectual
part of the book, and see how far this part of the task has been satisfactorily accomplished.

The Book of the Farm is mainly intended as a manual for the master-farmer, accompanying him
every where, and at every season of the year, counselling, guiding, and directing him in all
his operations. But it has a higher and more useful aim than merely to remind the practical
agriculturist of what he already knows. It is fitted, without other aid, to teach the beginner
nearly every thing which it is necessary for him to know in order to take his place among the
most intelligent practical men; and to teach it precisely at the time, and in the order, in
which it is most easy, most useful, and most interesting for him to learn it.

The beginner is supposed by Mr. Stephens to have undergone a previous course of instruction
under a practical man, and to enter upon a farm of his own in the beginning of winter. This
farm is a more or less naked and unimproved piece of land, without a farm-stead or farm-house,
with few hedge-rows, and wholly undrained. On entering the farm, also, he has servants to engage,
stock to buy, and implements to select. In all these difflculties, The Book of the Farm comes
to his aid. The most useful, approved, and economical form of a farm-steading is pointed out.
The structure of barns, stables, cow-houses, piggeries, liquid-manure tanks, poultry-yards,
and every other appendage of the farm-house, and, finally, the most fitting construction of
the farm-house itself, according to the size and situation of the farm, are discussed, described,
and explained. Plans and estimates of every expense are added, and woodcuts illustrative of
every less known suggestion. These are not only sufficient to guide the intelligent young farmer
in all the preliminary arrangements for his future comfort and success, but will, we are sure,
supply hints to many older heads for the reconstruction or improvement of farm-steadings, heretofore
deemed convenient and complete. The following chapter aids him in the choice of his servants,
and describes distinctly the duties and province of each.

And now, having concluded his domestic arrangements, [3] he must learn to know something of
the weather which prevails in the district in which he has settled, before he can properly
plan out or direct the execution of the various labours which are to be undertaken upon his
farm during the winter. A chapter of some length, therefore, is devoted to the "weather in
winter," in which the principles by which the weather is regulated in the different parts of
our islands, and the methods of foreseeing or predicting changes, are described and illustrated
as far as they are known. This is the first of those chapters of The Book of the Farm which
illustrates in a way not to be mistaken, the truth announced at the head of this article, that
skilful practice is applied science.

[Footnote 3: Hesiod considered one other appendage to the homestead indispensable, to which
Mr. Stephens does not allude, perhaps from feeling himself incompetent to advise.]

To some it may appear at first sight that our author has indulged in too much detail upon this
subject; but he is not a true practical farmer who says so. The weather has always been a most
interesting subject to the agriculturist--he is every day, in nearly all his movements, dependant
upon it. A week of rain, or of extraordinary drought, or of nipping frost, may disappoint his
most sanguine and best founded expectations. His daily comfort, his yearly profit, and the
general welfare of his family, all depend upon the weather, or upon his skill in foreseeing
its changes, and availing himself of every moment which is favourable to his purposes. Hence,
with agricultural writers, from the most early times, the varied appearances of the clouds,
the nature of the winds, and the changing aspects of the sun and moon, and their several significations,
have formed a favourite subject of description and discussion. Thus of the sun Virgil says--

  "Sol quoque, et exoriens et quum se condet in undas,
  Signa dabit; solem certissima signa sequuntir.
  Et quae mane refert, et quae surgentibus astris."
  At si quum referetque diem condit que relatum
  Lucidus orbis erit: frustra terrebere nimbis
  Et claro silvas cernes aquilone moveri."

Mr. Stephens recognises similar solar indications in the following rhymes:--

  "If the sun in red should set,
  The next day surely will be wet;
  If the sun should set in grey,
  The next will be a rainy day."

In his next edition we recommend to Mr. Stephens's notice the Border version of the latter:--

  "An evening red and a morning grey,
  Send the shepherd on his way;
  An evening grey and a morning red
  Send the shepherd wet to bed."

The most learned meteorologists of the present day believe the moon to influence the weather--the
practical farmer is sure of it--and we have known the result of the hay crop, in adjoining
farms, to be strikingly different, when upon the one the supposed influence of the time of
change was taken into account and acted upon, while in the other it was neglected.

But Virgil is more specific--

  "Ipsa dies alios alio dedit ordine Luna
  Felices operum; quintam fuge....
  Septuma post decumam felix et ponere vitem,
  Et prensos domitare boves."

And in these warnings he only imitates Hesiod--

  [Greek: Pempias de hexaleasthai, hepei chalepai te chai ainai.]

And

  [Greek: Maenos de isamenou trischaidecha taen haleasthai,
  Spezmatos azxasthai phuta de henthzepsasthai arisa.]

But the vague prognostics of old times are not sufficient for the guidance of the skilful and
provident farmer of our day. The barometer, the thermometer, and even the hygrometer, should
be his companions and guides, or occasional counsellors. To the description and useful indications
of these instruments, therefore, a sufficient space is devoted in the book before us. We do
not know any other source from which the practical farmer can draw so much meteorological matter
specially adapted to his own walk of life, as from this chapter upon the weather.

All this our young farmer is not supposed to sit down and master before he proceeds with the
proper business of his new farm; it will be a subject of study with him in many future months,
and winters too. But after a most judicious recommendation, to observe and record whatever
occurs either new or interesting in his field of labour--without which record he will not be
able to contribute, as he may hereafter do, to the extension of agricultural knowledge--he
is taught next, in an able chapter "upon soils and sub-soils," to study the nature of his farm
more thoroughly; to ascertain its natural capabilities--the improvements of which it is susceptible--the
simplest, most efficacious, and most economical means by which this improvement may be effected--and
the kind of implements which it will be most prudent in him to purchase for tilling the kind
of land of which his farm consists, or for bringing it into a more fertile condition. This
chapter also draws largely, especially upon geological and chemical science, and affords another
illustration of what, I trust, Mr. Stephens's book will more and more impress upon our working
farmers, that skilful practice is applied science. We have not room for any extracts, but when
we mention that in the chemical part of it the author has been assisted by Dr. Madden, readers
of the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture will be able to form an estimate of the way in which
this chapter has been got up.

Having now satisfied himself of the nature of his farm as to soil and capabilities, he sees
that new enclosures and shelter will be necessary--that some fields must be subdivided, others
laid out anew--that old hedge-rows must be rooted out or straightened, and new ones planted
in their room. Of what all this may be made to accomplish for his farm, and of how the work
itself may be done, even to the minutest details, the chapters on "enclosures and shelter,"
and on "planting of farm hedges," will fully inform him. The benefits of shelter on our elevated
lands, are not half understood. Thousands upon thousands of acres are lying in comparative
barrenness, which, by adequate shelter, might be converted into productive fields. The increase
of mean temperature which results from skilful enclosures, is estimated at 5° to 8° Fahrenheit;
while in regard to the increased money value, Mr. Thomas Bishop gives the following testimony:--

"Previous to the division of the common moor of Methven in Perthshire, in 1793, the venerable
Lord Lynedoch and Lord Methven had each secured their lower slopes of land adjoining the moor
with belts of plantation. The year following I entered Lord Methven's service, and in 1798
planted about sixty acres of the higher moor ground, valued at 2s. per acre, for shelter to
eighty or ninety acres set apart for cultivation, and let in three divisions to six individuals.
The progress made in improving the land was very slow for the first fifteen years, but thereafter
went on rapidly, being aided by the shelter derived from the growth of the plantations; and
the whole has now become fair land, bearing annually crops of oats, barley, peas, potatoes,
and turnips. In spring 1838, exactly forty years from the time of putting down the plantation,
I sold four acres of larch and fir (average growth) standing therein, for L.220, which, with
the value of reserved trees and average amount per acre of thinnings sold previously, gave
a return of L.67 per acre."--Vol. i, p. 367.

We are satisfied that in localities with which we are ourselves acquainted, there are tens
of thousand of acres which, by the simple protection of sheltering plantations, would soon
be made to exhibit an equal improvement with either the moor of Methven, or the lands upon
Shotley Fell, which are also referred to in the work before us. At a time when such strenuous
endeavours are making to introduce and extend a more efficient drainage among our clay lands,
the more simple amelioration of our cold uplands by judicious plantations, ought neither to
be lost sight of, nor by those who address themselves to the landlords and cultivators, be
passed by without especial and frequent notice.

Did space permit, we could have wished to extract a paragraph or two upon the mode of planting
hedges, and forming ditches, for the purpose of proving to our readers that Mr. Stephens is
as complete a hedger and ditcher, as we have seen him to be cunning as a drover and a cattle
surgeon. But we must refer the reader to the passages in pp. 376 and 379. Even in the planting
of thorn hedges he will find that science is not unavailing, for both mathematics and botany
are made by Mr. Stephens to yield their several contributions to the chapters we are now considering.

