P.P.S. Talk of women with their postscripts! They're not in it with me. I keep leaping off
the gridiron--I mean out of bed--again and again to add a word that threatens to burst my brain
if bottled up. This time shall be the last! I only want to assure you that I'm not brooding
over any coup of revenge against Caspian. My personal dislike of him has nothing to do with
my attitude, except that the more I see of the worm the more I see what a worm he is. Not only
is he unworthy to crawl in the same atmosphere with Miss Moore (don't smile sarcastically at
that expression. I like it!) but he's more fitted for underground conditions than any caterpillar
I ever met. Caterpillars change to butterflies. Worms, as far as my knowledge goes, are changeless.
I don't feel revengeful against him. But I don't feel conscientious and dutiful for a cent!

XII

PATRICIA MOORE TO ADRIENNE DE MONCOURT

CHÉRIE:

I have not the heart or the time for a long letter, but I must quickly tell you that our Marcel
has a son. I asked P. S. But he seems not to think your new cousin can be the same. Soon, surely,
he will himself say everything to you, and open his heart wide. Ah, how I wish you all there
is of happiness, the more because I am not to have it myself.

The critics knew better about life than I, you see, Mignonne. Yet I am going to be brave. I
have got myself engaged with Mr. Caspian already, since I wrote from the beautiful house. You
will think that strange, but it came to happen in a simple way. It was at the dance at the
Piping Rock Club. That sounds romantic, is it not? But it was not romantic at all. I just had
to do it. Then, after a little while, I was very sorry. I thought perhaps I need not have made
myself this misery. I was not nice to him the rest of that night, and the next day I would
not let him take a snapshot of me in the wonderful garden. I said I had a copyright of my own
face, if we were engaged! And I hoped that would make him break, but it did not. He was only
in the sulks. And he does not look nice in the sulks. I was glad he had to go to New York and
not motor home with us in the Grayles-Grice, and I could not be interested when he said in
hints that his business in town had something to do with me--something I should like! I'm sure
I cannot like it. And oh, chérie, he has such slept on looking ears, I dare not think of them:
too flat, and crinkly at the top like inside lettuce leaves!

I was making up my mind all the way home in heavenly moonlight that it had been a mistake and
I must jump out of it. This made me almost happy again--this, and watching Peter Storm drive,
which I do like to see, he does it so well, so strongly, it seems to give you strength being
near him.

But now I am at home and everything is changed, worse than when Larry was bankrupted. I found
him almost engaged to Mrs. Shuster. He was doing it because of being poor, and to save me from
the sacrifice. That was what he explained. So of course I told him I had promised to marry
Mr. Caspian, and all would be right for us. He is going to get out of it with Mrs. Shuster
if he can in honour. If he cannot I must try to dig him out. Larry matters so much more than
I do! I wish I were being engaged in France instead of here, because there I think les jeunes
filles do not have to kiss. Here, one says they do. But I will not!

I wish again thy happiness, dear one. Mine is lost. Would it do good if you prayed to Saint
Anthony of Padua to find it for me again?

Nobody knows yet except Larry. I shall not tell Angéle. She would be pleased, and I should
want to slap her!

                             Your poor                      PATRICE.

XIII

MOLLY WINSTON TO MERCÉDES LANE

                                            Awepesha, Long Island,
                                                         Wednesday.

DEAREST OLD GIRL:

I shouldn't call you that if you weren't young and beautiful!

Jack and I have just sent you a cheap, enthusiastic cable containing the one word "Hurrah!"
You will understand that our cheers ring across the Atlantic because Monty is mending well.
Your letter came this morning with the good news. Biarritz will be a jolly place for his convalescence.
I shall never forget when Jack and I were there together before we were engaged. Oh, with Aunt
Mary Kedison, of course! And in Jack's car, my poor old Horror of accursed memory being burnt
long before. Jack was "Brown" then, and my "Lightning Conductor" as he still is and ever shall
be; though just at present when we motor I have to sit behind the scenes and make the lightning
work. His wounds have left him stiff in the left arm and leg, but the doctors say he will really
and truly be himself again in a few months: six or seven at most. I wish you the same luck
with Monty, or better if possible.

By the way, we shall meet Aunt Mary again soon. She has been to the Bahamas for the winter,
with a family of retired missionaries (I think they retired after one of them was eaten), but
has come back to a house she owns in New England. We shall have to stop and say, "How do you
do and good-bye" on our way somewhere else. I confess I dread it, for though Aunt Mary is as
good as gold, or, anyhow, silver, she's one of those creatures who begin: "You know I'm a very
truthful woman," whenever they have a disagreeable personal remark to make. You've met the
type! They're mostly women; and they dissolve in tears and think you cruel as dozens of graves
if you retort in kind. I expect Aunt Mary's (almost) first words to Jack will be, "Well, Mr.
Winston--(oh, Captain is it, Molly?)--I'm glad to see that my niece and you continue to get
along fairly. You're aware I never could approve on principle of these international matches,
or mismatches; American women ought to marry men of their own country, if they must marry at
all." (She's never forgiven me for snubbing her pet, Jimmy Payne, now a terribly respectable
husband and Poopa.) "Still, there can be exceptions, and evidently you don't bully my niece,
as it's established that most Englishmen do their wives, for she's looking well considering
her age. Let me see, she was born in the year----" But at this point I shall interrupt Aunt
Mary by a bright remark about the weather, or a bludgeon if the weather won't work!

I thank our lucky stars (Jack and I have a skyful) that we're going to do another trip before
we start for New England. Of course I want my ewe-lion (I've named him that behind his back
since he turned warrior) to see all of my dear country he can before we have to sail again;
but it's too bad such a lovely part as New England should be infested by aunts, isn't it? It's
called the "Ideal Tour," I believe--through the White Mountains and some green and blue ones,
etc.--but for Jack and me it will have a drawback. People used to be torn to death by wild
horses. That's not done in the best circles now; but it's perfectly admissible, alas, to be
talked to death by wild aunts.

I'm charmed that you're so interested in Patsey Moore and Peter Storm. The latter, as I wrote,
has developed into her "Lightning Conductor." Indeed, in some ways Jack and he are alike: for
you know Jack "Brown-ed" himself in order to conduct me; and I can't help thinking that our
Stormy Petrel isn't as Stormy as he's painted. Now I know him so well, I don't let my mind
dwell on the possibility of his being less worthy of our intense interest than he seems. If
there's anything hidden, it's "buried treasure," such as we hope against hope may exist at
Kidd's Pines.

It's not very long, as the crow flies--I mean the post--since I wrote you last; but I do think
more things can happen in America to the square minute than anywhere else in the world. Especially
at Kidd's Pines! It's like living in a "movie" when they are running the reels off fast. Why,
our reels go so quickly you hardly know what's happened to the "walking men and women", and
it's even difficult to tell the hero from the villain.

That sounds frivolous, but it's serious really. I should be very sad if I weren't hoping that
Jack and Peter Storm and I may be able to combine together and stop things from going all to bits.

At present everything to do with "heart interest" is horrid--except some things that are funny.
And the people they're happening to can't see the fun in them as the outsiders--Jack and I--can.
Naturally there would be heaps of heart interest, all over the place, wherever Patty was; and
that would be all right if Larry weren't simply followed around by it too, the way actor-managers
are by the spotlight. When we were doing our delicious motor run around Long Island, getting
acquainted with the old whalers, and Indian chieftains, and golfers and millionairesses, it
was sweet to see how Pat was unconsciously taming our Stormy Petrel to eat out of her hand.
Even Jack saw it happening, so it must have been pretty obvious, because men never can see
other people's love stories going on under their noses. I knew as well as if he'd told me,
that Peter Storm would rather be torpedoed again than fall in love and settle down. Besides
though none but the brave deserve the fair, few but the rich ever get them. And I suppose the
Stormy One can't be rich, whatever else he may be. Perhaps he was once, and lost all his money;
for he certainly has the look of a banished prince, and the long-distance manner of one, if
he doesn't like anybody or is bored. But strong as he may be in many ways, he could not resist
Pat when he was in a motor car with her day after day. Jack and I would have bet (if that hadn't
been callous) as to whether he'd cave in far enough to propose; and if I had bet I should have
lost. But it wouldn't have been my fault. It would have been Ed Caspian's. Jimmy Payne at his
worst wasn't a patch on him.

How the man managed it I can't conceive (as Pat is of an almost exaggerated and clamlike loyalty),
but she arrived at Kidd's Pines at the end of that short trip engaged to Caspian!

I didn't know till the next day; didn't know that, or the rest. You see, we finished up with
a moonlight run from the gorgeous house I wrote you a postcard about. We were late, for the
Faust-cry in our hearts was communicated to our speed: "Linger awhile: thou art so fair!" Jack
and I didn't stop at Kidd's Pines at all, though they asked us in to have night-blooming sandwiches
and such things. We went straight on to Awepesha and slept the sleep of the moderately just.
Pat had promised to 'phone in the morning, and did. She merely asked how we were, and said
she was well; but I could tell from her voice that something dreadful was the matter. I dashed
over in the car before Jack was dressed, ready with an excuse about a book I wished to borrow,
and was so early that I found myself colliding--nay, telescoping--with the breakfast brigade
of the "hotel."

Pat doesn't break her fast with the paying guest, however: she's an early bird, though her
pet aversion is a worm. I sent a message to her room (the smallest in the house) and was invited
to go up. There was a cloud of cigar smoke in the air, and as Pat doesn't smoke, I deduced
a miraculously matinal call from Larry. That alone was an omen of catastrophe, for Larry is
either up all night or not before 10 A. M. And Pat's face was worse than an omen. I could see
behind her poor little smile of greeting, right into her mind, as if her head had been a watch
with nothing but glass over the works.

"Good gracious, darling, whatever is it?" I gasped.

"Nothing," said she, "except--except that Tom has toothache, and I'm sorry for him."

