A man who has at length found something to do will not need to get a new suit to do it in;
for him the old will do, that has lain dusty in the garret for an indeterminate period. Old
shoes will serve a hero longer than they have served his valet--if a hero ever has a valet--bare
feet are older than shoes, and he can make them do. Only they who go to soires and legislative
balls must have new coats, coats to change as often as the man changes in them. But if my jacket
and trousers, my hat and shoes, are fit to worship God in, they will do; will they not? Who
ever saw his old clothes--his old coat, actually worn out, resolved into its primitive elements,
so that it was not a deed of charity to bestow it on some poor boy, by him perchance to be
bestowed on some poorer still, or shall we say richer, who could do with less? I say, beware
of all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of clothes. If there
is not a new man, how can the new clothes be made to fit? If you have any enterprise before
you, try it in your old clothes. All men want, not something to do with, but something to do,
or rather something to be. Perhaps we should never procure a new suit, however ragged or dirty
the old, until we have so conducted, so enterprised or sailed in some way, that we feel like
new men in the old, and that to retain it would be like keeping new wine in old bottles. Our
moulting season, like that of the fowls, must be a crisis in our lives. The loon retires to
solitary ponds to spend it. Thus also the snake casts its slough, and the caterpillar its wormy
coat, by an internal industry and expansion; for clothes are but our outmost cuticle and mortal
coil. Otherwise we shall be found sailing under false colors, and be inevitably cashiered at
last by our own opinion, as well as that of mankind.

We don garment after garment, as if we grew like exogenous plants by addition without. Our
outside and often thin and fanciful clothes are our epidermis, or false skin, which partakes
not of our life, and may be stripped off here and there without fatal injury; our thicker garments,
constantly worn, are our cellular integument, or cortex; but our shirts are our liber, or true
bark, which cannot be removed without girdling and so destroying the man. I believe that all
races at some seasons wear something equivalent to the shirt. It is desirable that a man be
clad so simply that he can lay his hands on himself in the dark, and that he live in all respects
so compactly and preparedly that, if an enemy take the town, he can, like the old philosopher,
walk out the gate empty-handed without anxiety. While one thick garment is, for most purposes,
as good as three thin ones, and cheap clothing can be obtained at prices really to suit customers;
while a thick coat can be bought for five dollars, which will last as many years, thick pantaloons
for two dollars, cowhide boots for a dollar and a half a pair, a summer hat for a quarter of
a dollar, and a winter cap for sixty-two and a half cents, or a better be made at home at a
nominal cost, where is he so poor that, clad in such a suit, of his own earning, there will
not be found wise men to do him reverence?

When I ask for a garment of a particular form, my tailoress tells me gravely, "They do not
make them so now," not emphasizing the "They" at all, as if she quoted an authority as impersonal
as the Fates, and I find it difficult to get made what I want, simply because she cannot believe
that I mean what I say, that I am so rash. When I hear this oracular sentence, I am for a moment
absorbed in thought, emphasizing to myself each word separately that I may come at the meaning
of it, that I may find out by what degree of consanguinity They are related to me, and what
authority they may have in an affair which affects me so nearly; and, finally, I am inclined
to answer her with equal mystery, and without any more emphasis of the "they"--"It is true,
they did not make them so recently, but they do now." Of what use this measuring of me if she
does not measure my character, but only the breadth of my shoulders, as it were a peg to bang
the coat on? We worship not the Graces, nor the Parcae, but Fashion. She spins and weaves and
cuts with full authority. The head monkey at Paris puts on a traveller's cap, and all the monkeys
in America do the same. I sometimes despair of getting anything quite simple and honest done
in this world by the help of men. They would have to be passed through a powerful press first,
to squeeze their old notions out of them, so that they would not soon get upon their legs again;
and then there would be some one in the company with a maggot in his head, hatched from an
egg deposited there nobody knows when, for not even fire kills these things, and you would
have lost your labor. Nevertheless, we will not forget that some Egyptian wheat was handed
down to us by a mummy.

On the whole, I think that it cannot be maintained that dressing has in this or any country
risen to the dignity of an art. At present men make shift to wear what they can get. Like shipwrecked
sailors, they put on what they can find on the beach, and at a little distance, whether of
space or time, laugh at each other's masquerade. Every generation laughs at the old fashions,
but follows religiously the new. We are amused at beholding the costume of Henry VIII, or Queen
Elizabeth, as much as if it was that of the King and Queen of the Cannibal Islands. All costume
off a man is pitiful or grotesque. It is only the serious eye peering from and the sincere
life passed within it which restrain laughter and consecrate the costume of any people. Let
Harlequin be taken with a fit of the colic and his trappings will have to serve that mood too.
When the soldier is hit by a cannonball, rags are as becoming as purple.

The childish and savage taste of men and women for new patterns keeps how many shaking and
squinting through kaleidoscopes that they may discover the particular figure which this generation
requires today. The manufacturers have learned that this taste is merely whimsical. Of two
patterns which differ only by a few threads more or less of a particular color, the one will
be sold readily, the other lie on the shelf, though it frequently happens that after the lapse
of a season the latter becomes the most fashionable. Comparatively, tattooing is not the hideous
custom which it is called. It is not barbarous merely because the printing is skin-deep and
unalterable.

I cannot believe that our factory system is the best mode by which men may get clothing. The
condition of the operatives is becoming every day more like that of the English; and it cannot
be wondered at, since, as far as I have heard or observed, the principal object is, not that
mankind may be well and honestly clad, but, unquestionably, that corporations may be enriched.
In the long run men hit only what they aim at. Therefore, though they should fail immediately,
they had better aim at something high.

As for a Shelter, I will not deny that this is now a necessary of life, though there are instances
of men having done without it for long periods in colder countries than this. Samuel Laing
says that "the Laplander in his skin dress, and in a skin bag which he puts over his head and
shoulders, will sleep night after night on the snow... in a degree of cold which would extinguish
the life of one exposed to it in any woollen clothing." He had seen them asleep thus. Yet he
adds, "They are not hardier than other people." But, probably, man did not live long on the
earth without discovering the convenience which there is in a house, the domestic comforts,
which phrase may have originally signified the satisfactions of the house more than of the
family; though these must be extremely partial and occasional in those climates where the house
is associated in our thoughts with winter or the rainy season chiefly, and two thirds of the
year, except for a parasol, is unnecessary. In our climate, in the summer, it was formerly
almost solely a covering at night. In the Indian gazettes a wigwam was the symbol of a day's
march, and a row of them cut or painted on the bark of a tree signified that so many times
they had camped. Man was not made so large limbed and robust but that he must seek to narrow
his world and wall in a space such as fitted him. He was at first bare and out of doors; but
though this was pleasant enough in serene and warm weather, by daylight, the rainy season and
the winter, to say nothing of the torrid sun, would perhaps have nipped his race in the bud
if he had not made haste to clothe himself with the shelter of a house. Adam and Eve, according
to the fable, wore the bower before other clothes. Man wanted a home, a place of warmth, or
comfort, first of warmth, then the warmth of the affections.

We may imagine a time when, in the infancy of the human race, some enterprising mortal crept
into a hollow in a rock for shelter. Every child begins the world again, to some extent, and
loves to stay outdoors, even in wet and cold. It plays house, as well as horse, having an instinct
for it. Who does not remember the interest with which, when young, he looked at shelving rocks,
or any approach to a cave? It was the natural yearning of that portion, any portion of our
most primitive ancestor which still survived in us. From the cave we have advanced to roofs
of palm leaves, of bark and boughs, of linen woven and stretched, of grass and straw, of boards
and shingles, of stones and tiles. At last, we know not what it is to live in the open air,
and our lives are domestic in more senses than we think. From the hearth the field is a great
distance. It would be well, perhaps, if we were to spend more of our days and nights without
any obstruction between us and the celestial bodies, if the poet did not speak so much from
under a roof, or the saint dwell there so long. Birds do not sing in caves, nor do doves cherish
their innocence in dovecots.

However, if one designs to construct a dwelling-house, it behooves him to exercise a little
Yankee shrewdness, lest after all he find himself in a workhouse, a labyrinth without a clue,
a museum, an almshouse, a prison, or a splendid mausoleum instead. Consider first how slight
a shelter is absolutely necessary. I have seen Penobscot Indians, in this town, living in tents
of thin cotton cloth, while the snow was nearly a foot deep around them, and I thought that
they would be glad to have it deeper to keep out the wind. Formerly, when how to get my living
honestly, with freedom left for my proper pursuits, was a question which vexed me even more
than it does now, for unfortunately I am become somewhat callous, I used to see a large box
by the railroad, six feet long by three wide, in which the laborers locked up their tools at
night; and it suggested to me that every man who was hard pushed might get such a one for a
dollar, and, having bored a few auger holes in it, to admit the air at least, get into it when
it rained and at night, and hook down the lid, and so have freedom in his love, and in his
soul be free. This did not appear the worst, nor by any means a despicable alternative. You
could sit up as late as you pleased, and, whenever you got up, go abroad without any landlord
or house-lord dogging you for rent. Many a man is harassed to death to pay the rent of a larger
and more luxurious box who would not have frozen to death in such a box as this. I am far from
jesting. Economy is a subject which admits of being treated with levity, but it cannot so be
disposed of. A comfortable house for a rude and hardy race, that lived mostly out of doors,
was once made here almost entirely of such materials as Nature furnished ready to their hands.
Gookin, who was superintendent of the Indians subject to the Massachusetts Colony, writing
in 1674, says, "The best of their houses are covered very neatly, tight and warm, with barks
of trees, slipped from their bodies at those seasons when the sap is up, and made into great
flakes, with pressure of weighty timber, when they are green.... The meaner sort are covered
with mats which they make of a kind of bulrush, and are also indifferently tight and warm,
but not so good as the former.... Some I have seen, sixty or a hundred feet long and thirty
feet broad.... I have often lodged in their wigwams, and found them as warm as the best English
houses." He adds that they were commonly carpeted and lined within with well-wrought embroidered
mats, and were furnished with various utensils. The Indians had advanced so far as to regulate
the effect of the wind by a mat suspended over the hole in the roof and moved by a string.
Such a lodge was in the first instance constructed in a day or two at most, and taken down
and put up in a few hours; and every family owned one, or its apartment in one.

In the savage state every family owns a shelter as good as the best, and sufficient for its
coarser and simpler wants; but I think that I speak within bounds when I say that, though the
birds of the air have their nests, and the foxes their holes, and the savages their wigwams,
in modern civilized society not more than one half the families own a shelter. In the large
towns and cities, where civilization especially prevails, the number of those who own a shelter
is a very small fraction of the whole. The rest pay an annual tax for this outside garment
of all, become indispensable summer and winter, which would buy a village of Indian wigwams,
but now helps to keep them poor as long as they live. I do not mean to insist here on the disadvantage
of hiring compared with owning, but it is evident that the savage owns his shelter because
it costs so little, while the civilized man hires his commonly because he cannot afford to
own it; nor can he, in the long run, any better afford to hire. But, answers one, by merely
paying this tax, the poor civilized man secures an abode which is a palace compared with the
savage's. An annual rent of from twenty-five to a hundred dollars (these are the country rates)
entitles him to the benefit of the improvements of centuries, spacious apartments, clean paint
and paper, Rumford fire-place, back plastering, Venetian blinds, copper pump, spring lock,
a commodious cellar, and many other things. But how happens it that he who is said to enjoy
these things is so commonly a poor civilized man, while the savage, who has them not, is rich
as a savage? An average house in this neighborhood costs perhaps eight hundred dollars, and
to lay up this sum will take from ten to fifteen years of the laborer's life, even if he is
not encumbered with a family--estimating the pecuniary value of every man's labor at one dollar
a day, for if some receive more, others receive less;--so that he must have spent more than
half his life commonly before his wigwam will be earned. If we suppose him to pay a rent instead,
this is but a doubtful choice of evils. Would the savage have been wise to exchange his wigwam
for a palace on these terms?

It may be guessed that I reduce almost the whole advantage of holding this superfluous property
as a fund in store against the future, so far as the individual is concerned, mainly to the
defraying of funeral expenses. But perhaps a man is not required to bury himself. Nevertheless
this points to an important distinction between the civilized man and the savage; and, no doubt,
they have designs on us for our benefit, in making the life of a civilized people an institution,
in which the life of the individual is to a great extent absorbed, in order to preserve and
perfect that of the race. But I wish to show at what a sacrifice this advantage is at present
obtained, and to suggest that we may possibly so live as to secure all the advantage without
suffering any of the disadvantage.

When I consider my neighbors, the farmers of Concord, who are at least as well off as the other
classes, I find that for the most part they have been toiling twenty, thirty, or forty years,
that they may become the real owners of their farms, which commonly they have inherited with
encumbrances, or else bought with hired money--and we may regard one third of that toil as
the cost of their houses--but commonly they have not paid for them yet. It is true, the encumbrances
sometimes outweigh the value of the farm, so that the farm itself becomes one great encumbrance,
and still a man is found to inherit it, being well acquainted with it, as he says. On applying
to the assessors, I am surprised to learn that they cannot at once name a dozen in the town
who own their farms free and clear. If you would know the history of these homesteads, inquire
at the bank where they are mortgaged. The man who has actually paid for his farm with labor
on it is so rare that every neighbor can point to him. I doubt if there are three such men
in Concord. What has been said of the merchants, that a very large majority, even ninety-seven
in a hundred, are sure to fail, is equally true of the farmers. With regard to the merchants,
however, one of them says pertinently that a great part of their failures are not genuine pecuniary
failures, but merely failures to fulfil their engagements, because it is inconvenient; that
is, it is the moral character that breaks down. But this puts an infinitely worse face on the
matter, and suggests, beside, that probably not even the other three succeed in saving their
souls, but are perchance bankrupt in a worse sense than they who fail honestly. Bankruptcy
and repudiation are the springboards from which much of our civilization vaults and turns its
somersets, but the savage stands on the unelastic plank of famine. Yet the Middlesex Cattle
Show goes off here with eclat annually, as if all the joints of the agricultural machine were
suent.

The farmer is endeavoring to solve the problem of a livelihood by a formula more complicated
than the problem itself. To get his shoestrings he speculates in herds of cattle. With consummate
skill he has set his trap with a hair spring to catch comfort and independence, and then, as
he turned away, got his own leg into it. This is the reason he is poor; and for a similar reason
we are all poor in respect to a thousand savage comforts, though surrounded by luxuries. As
Chapman sings,

             "The false society of men--
                --for earthly greatness
              All heavenly comforts rarefies to air."

And when the farmer has got his house, he may not be the richer but the poorer for it, and
it be the house that has got him. As I understand it, that was a valid objection urged by Momus
against the house which Minerva made, that she "had not made it movable, by which means a bad
neighborhood might be avoided"; and it may still be urged, for our houses are such unwieldy
property that we are often imprisoned rather than housed in them; and the bad neighborhood
to be avoided is our own scurvy selves. I know one or two families, at least, in this town,
who, for nearly a generation, have been wishing to sell their houses in the outskirts and move
into the village, but have not been able to accomplish it, and only death will set them free.

Granted that the majority are able at last either to own or hire the modern house with all
its improvements. While civilization has been improving our houses, it has not equally improved
the men who are to inhabit them. It has created palaces, but it was not so easy to create noblemen
and kings. And if the civilized man's pursuits are no worthier than the savage's, if he is
employed the greater part of his life in obtaining gross necessaries and comforts merely, why
should he have a better dwelling than the former?

But how do the poor minority fare? Perhaps it will be found that just in proportion as some
have been placed in outward circumstances above the savage, others have been degraded below
him. The luxury of one class is counterbalanced by the indigence of another. On the one side
is the palace, on the other are the almshouse and "silent poor." The myriads who built the
pyramids to be the tombs of the Pharaohs were fed on garlic, and it may be were not decently
buried themselves. The mason who finishes the cornice of the palace returns at night perchance
to a hut not so good as a wigwam. It is a mistake to suppose that, in a country where the usual
evidences of civilization exist, the condition of a very large body of the inhabitants may
not be as degraded as that of savages. I refer to the degraded poor, not now to the degraded
rich. To know this I should not need to look farther than to the shanties which everywhere
border our railroads, that last improvement in civilization; where I see in my daily walks
human beings living in sties, and all winter with an open door, for the sake of light, without
any visible, often imaginable, wood-pile, and the forms of both old and young are permanently
contracted by the long habit of shrinking from cold and misery, and the development of all
their limbs and faculties is checked. It certainly is fair to look at that class by whose labor
the works which distinguish this generation are accomplished. Such too, to a greater or less
extent, is the condition of the operatives of every denomination in England, which is the great
workhouse of the world. Or I could refer you to Ireland, which is marked as one of the white
or enlightened spots on the map. Contrast the physical condition of the Irish with that of
the North American Indian, or the South Sea Islander, or any other savage race before it was
degraded by contact with the civilized man. Yet I have no doubt that that people's rulers are
as wise as the average of civilized rulers. Their condition only proves what squalidness may
consist with civilization. I hardly need refer now to the laborers in our Southern States who
produce the staple exports of this country, and are themselves a staple production of the South.
But to confine myself to those who are said to be in moderate circumstances.

Most men appear never to have considered what a house is, and are actually though needlessly
poor all their lives because they think that they must have such a one as their neighbors have.
As if one were to wear any sort of coat which the tailor might cut out for him, or, gradually
leaving off palm-leaf hat or cap of woodchuck skin, complain of hard times because he could
not afford to buy him a crown! It is possible to invent a house still more convenient and luxurious
than we have, which yet all would admit that man could not afford to pay for. Shall we always
study to obtain more of these things, and not sometimes to be content with less? Shall the
respectable citizen thus gravely teach, by precept and example, the necessity of the young
man's providing a certain number of superfluous glow-shoes, and umbrellas, and empty guest
chambers for empty guests, before he dies? Why should not our furniture be as simple as the
Arab's or the Indian's? When I think of the benefactors of the race, whom we have apotheosized
as messengers from heaven, bearers of divine gifts to man, I do not see in my mind any retinue
at their heels, any carload of fashionable furniture. Or what if I were to allow--would it
not be a singular allowance?--that our furniture should be more complex than the Arab's, in
proportion as we are morally and intellectually his superiors! At present our houses are cluttered
and defiled with it, and a good housewife would sweep out the greater part into the dust hole,
and not leave her morning's work undone. Morning work! By the blushes of Aurora and the music
of Memnon, what should be man's morning work in this world? I had three pieces of limestone
on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to be dusted daily, when the furniture
of my mind was all undusted still, and threw them out the window in disgust. How, then, could
I have a furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers on the grass,
unless where man has broken ground.

It is the luxurious and dissipated who set the fashions which the herd so diligently follow.
The traveller who stops at the best houses, so called, soon discovers this, for the publicans
presume him to be a Sardanapalus, and if he resigned himself to their tender mercies he would
soon be completely emasculated. I think that in the railroad car we are inclined to spend more
on luxury than on safety and convenience, and it threatens without attaining these to become
no better than a modern drawing-room, with its divans, and ottomans, and sun-shades, and a
hundred other oriental things, which we are taking west with us, invented for the ladies of
the harem and the effeminate natives of the Celestial Empire, which Jonathan should be ashamed
to know the names of. I would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it all to myself than be crowded
on a velvet cushion. I would rather ride on earth in an ox cart, with a free circulation, than
go to heaven in the fancy car of an excursion train and breathe a malaria all the way.

The very simplicity and nakedness of man's life in the primitive ages imply this advantage,
at least, that they left him still but a sojourner in nature. When he was refreshed with food
and sleep, he contemplated his journey again. He dwelt, as it were, in a tent in this world,
and was either threading the valleys, or crossing the plains, or climbing the mountain-tops.
But lo! men have become the tools of their tools. The man who independently plucked the fruits
when he was hungry is become a farmer; and he who stood under a tree for shelter, a housekeeper.
We now no longer camp as for a night, but have settled down on earth and forgotten heaven.
We have adopted Christianity merely as an improved method of agriculture. We have built for
this world a family mansion, and for the next a family tomb. The best works of art are the
expression of man's struggle to free himself from this condition, but the effect of our art
is merely to make this low state comfortable and that higher state to be forgotten. There is
actually no place in this village for a work of fine art, if any had come down to us, to stand,
for our lives, our houses and streets, furnish no proper pedestal for it. There is not a nail
to hang a picture on, nor a shelf to receive the bust of a hero or a saint. When I consider
how our houses are built and paid for, or not paid for, and their internal economy managed
and sustained, I wonder that the floor does not give way under the visitor while he is admiring
the gewgaws upon the mantelpiece, and let him through into the cellar, to some solid and honest
though earthy foundation. I cannot but perceive that this so-called rich and refined life is
a thing jumped at, and I do not get on in the enjoyment of the fine arts which adorn it, my
attention being wholly occupied with the jump; for I remember that the greatest genuine leap,
due to human muscles alone, on record, is that of certain wandering Arabs, who are said to
have cleared twenty-five feet on level ground. Without factitious support, man is sure to come
to earth again beyond that distance. The first question which I am tempted to put to the proprietor
of such great impropriety is, Who bolsters you? Are you one of the ninety-seven who fail, or
the three who succeed? Answer me these questions, and then perhaps I may look at your bawbles
and find them ornamental. The cart before the horse is neither beautiful nor useful. Before
we can adorn our houses with beautiful objects the walls must be stripped, and our lives must
be stripped, and beautiful housekeeping and beautiful living be laid for a foundation: now,
a taste for the beautiful is most cultivated out of doors, where there is no house and no housekeeper.

Old Johnson, in his "Wonder-Working Providence," speaking of the first settlers of this town,
with whom he was contemporary, tells us that "they burrow themselves in the earth for their
first shelter under some hillside, and, casting the soil aloft upon timber, they make a smoky
fire against the earth, at the highest side." They did not "provide them houses," says he,
"till the earth, by the Lord's blessing, brought forth bread to feed them," and the first year's
crop was so light that "they were forced to cut their bread very thin for a long season." The
secretary of the Province of New Netherland, writing in Dutch, in 1650, for the information
of those who wished to take up land there, states more particularly that "those in New Netherland,
and especially in New England, who have no means to build farmhouses at first according to
their wishes, dig a square pit in the ground, cellar fashion, six or seven feet deep, as long
and as broad as they think proper, case the earth inside with wood all round the wall, and
line the wood with the bark of trees or something else to prevent the caving in of the earth;
floor this cellar with plank, and wainscot it overhead for a ceiling, raise a roof of spars
clear up, and cover the spars with bark or green sods, so that they can live dry and warm in
these houses with their entire families for two, three, and four years, it being understood
that partitions are run through those cellars which are adapted to the size of the family.
The wealthy and principal men in New England, in the beginning of the colonies, commenced their
first dwelling-houses in this fashion for two reasons: firstly, in order not to waste time
in building, and not to want food the next season; secondly, in order not to discourage poor
laboring people whom they brought over in numbers from Fatherland. In the course of three or
four years, when the country became adapted to agriculture, they built themselves handsome
houses, spending on them several thousands."

In this course which our ancestors took there was a show of prudence at least, as if their
principle were to satisfy the more pressing wants first. But are the more pressing wants satisfied
now? When I think of acquiring for myself one of our luxurious dwellings, I am deterred, for,
so to speak, the country is not yet adapted to human culture, and we are still forced to cut
our spiritual bread far thinner than our forefathers did their wheaten. Not that all architectural
ornament is to be neglected even in the rudest periods; but let our houses first be lined with
beauty, where they come in contact with our lives, like the tenement of the shellfish, and
not overlaid with it. But, alas! I have been inside one or two of them, and know what they
are lined with.

Though we are not so degenerate but that we might possibly live in a cave or a wigwam or wear
skins today, it certainly is better to accept the advantages, though so dearly bought, which
the invention and industry of mankind offer. In such a neighborhood as this, boards and shingles,
lime and bricks, are cheaper and more easily obtained than suitable caves, or whole logs, or
bark in sufficient quantities, or even well-tempered clay or flat stones. I speak understandingly
on this subject, for I have made myself acquainted with it both theoretically and practically.
With a little more wit we might use these materials so as to become richer than the richest
now are, and make our civilization a blessing. The civilized man is a more experienced and
wiser savage. But to make haste to my own experiment.

Near the end of March, 1845, I borrowed an axe and went down to the woods by Walden Pond, nearest
to where I intended to build my house, and began to cut down some tall, arrowy white pines,
still in their youth, for timber. It is difficult to begin without borrowing, but perhaps it
is the most generous course thus to permit your fellow-men to have an interest in your enterprise.
The owner of the axe, as he released his hold on it, said that it was the apple of his eye;
but I returned it sharper than I received it. It was a pleasant hillside where I worked, covered
with pine woods, through which I looked out on the pond, and a small open field in the woods
where pines and hickories were springing up. The ice in the pond was not yet dissolved, though
there were some open spaces, and it was all dark-colored and saturated with water. There were
some slight flurries of snow during the days that I worked there; but for the most part when
I came out on to the railroad, on my way home, its yellow sand heap stretched away gleaming
in the hazy atmosphere, and the rails shone in the spring sun, and I heard the lark and pewee
and other birds already come to commence another year with us. They were pleasant spring days,
in which the winter of man's discontent was thawing as well as the earth, and the life that
had lain torpid began to stretch itself. One day, when my axe had come off and I had cut a
green hickory for a wedge, driving it with a stone, and had placed the whole to soak in a pond-hole
in order to swell the wood, I saw a striped snake run into the water, and he lay on the bottom,
apparently without inconvenience, as long as I stayed there, or more than a quarter of an hour;
perhaps because he had not yet fairly come out of the torpid state. It appeared to me that
for a like reason men remain in their present low and primitive condition; but if they should
feel the influence of the spring of springs arousing them, they would of necessity rise to
a higher and more ethereal life. I had previously seen the snakes in frosty mornings in my
path with portions of their bodies still numb and inflexible, waiting for the sun to thaw them.
On the 1st of April it rained and melted the ice, and in the early part of the day, which was
very foggy, I heard a stray goose groping about over the pond and cackling as if lost, or like
the spirit of the fog.

So I went on for some days cutting and hewing timber, and also studs and rafters, all with
my narrow axe, not having many communicable or scholar-like thoughts, singing to myself,--

                  Men say they know many things;
                  But lo! they have taken wings--
                  The arts and sciences,
                  And a thousand appliances;
                  The wind that blows
                  Is all that any body knows.

I hewed the main timbers six inches square, most of the studs on two sides only, and the rafters
and floor timbers on one side, leaving the rest of the bark on, so that they were just as straight
and much stronger than sawed ones. Each stick was carefully mortised or tenoned by its stump,
for I had borrowed other tools by this time. My days in the woods were not very long ones;
yet I usually carried my dinner of bread and butter, and read the newspaper in which it was
wrapped, at noon, sitting amid the green pine boughs which I had cut off, and to my bread was
imparted some of their fragrance, for my hands were covered with a thick coat of pitch. Before
I had done I was more the friend than the foe of the pine tree, though I had cut down some
of them, having become better acquainted with it. Sometimes a rambler in the wood was attracted
by the sound of my axe, and we chatted pleasantly over the chips which I had made.

By the middle of April, for I made no haste in my work, but rather made the most of it, my
house was framed and ready for the raising. I had already bought the shanty of James Collins,
an Irishman who worked on the Fitchburg Railroad, for boards. James Collins' shanty was considered
an uncommonly fine one. When I called to see it he was not at home. I walked about the outside,
at first unobserved from within, the window was so deep and high. It was of small dimensions,
with a peaked cottage roof, and not much else to be seen, the dirt being raised five feet all
around as if it were a compost heap. The roof was the soundest part, though a good deal warped
and made brittle by the sun. Doorsill there was none, but a perennial passage for the hens
under the door board. Mrs. C. came to the door and asked me to view it from the inside. The
hens were driven in by my approach. It was dark, and had a dirt floor for the most part, dank,
clammy, and aguish, only here a board and there a board which would not bear removal. She lighted
a lamp to show me the inside of the roof and the walls, and also that the board floor extended
under the bed, warning me not to step into the cellar, a sort of dust hole two feet deep. In
her own words, they were "good boards overhead, good boards all around, and a good window"--of
two whole squares originally, only the cat had passed out that way lately. There was a stove,
a bed, and a place to sit, an infant in the house where it was born, a silk parasol, gilt-framed
looking-glass, and a patent new coffee-mill nailed to an oak sapling, all told. The bargain
was soon concluded, for James had in the meanwhile returned. I to pay four dollars and twenty-five
cents tonight, he to vacate at five tomorrow morning, selling to nobody else meanwhile: I to
take possession at six. It were well, he said, to be there early, and anticipate certain indistinct
but wholly unjust claims on the score of ground rent and fuel. This he assured me was the only
encumbrance. At six I passed him and his family on the road. One large bundle held their all--bed,
coffee-mill, looking-glass, hens--all but the cat; she took to the woods and became a wild
cat, and, as I learned afterward, trod in a trap set for woodchucks, and so became a dead cat
at last.

I took down this dwelling the same morning, drawing the nails, and removed it to the pond-side
by small cartloads, spreading the boards on the grass there to bleach and warp back again in
the sun. One early thrush gave me a note or two as I drove along the woodland path. I was informed
treacherously by a young Patrick that neighbor Seeley, an Irishman, in the intervals of the
carting, transferred the still tolerable, straight, and drivable nails, staples, and spikes
to his pocket, and then stood when I came back to pass the time of day, and look freshly up,
unconcerned, with spring thoughts, at the devastation; there being a dearth of work, as he
said. He was there to represent spectatordom, and help make this seemingly insignificant event
one with the removal of the gods of Troy.

I dug my cellar in the side of a hill sloping to the south, where a woodchuck had formerly
dug his burrow, down through sumach and blackberry roots, and the lowest stain of vegetation,
six feet square by seven deep, to a fine sand where potatoes would not freeze in any winter.
The sides were left shelving, and not stoned; but the sun having never shone on them, the sand
still keeps its place. It was but two hours' work. I took particular pleasure in this breaking
of ground, for in almost all latitudes men dig into the earth for an equable temperature. Under
the most splendid house in the city is still to be found the cellar where they store their
roots as of old, and long after the superstructure has disappeared posterity remark its dent
in the earth. The house is still but a sort of porch at the entrance of a burrow.

At length, in the beginning of May, with the help of some of my acquaintances, rather to improve
so good an occasion for neighborliness than from any necessity, I set up the frame of my house.
No man was ever more honored in the character of his raisers than I. They are destined, I trust,
to assist at the raising of loftier structures one day. I began to occupy my house on the 4th
of July, as soon as it was boarded and roofed, for the boards were carefully feather-edged
and lapped, so that it was perfectly impervious to rain, but before boarding I laid the foundation
of a chimney at one end, bringing two cartloads of stones up the hill from the pond in my arms.
I built the chimney after my hoeing in the fall, before a fire became necessary for warmth,
doing my cooking in the meanwhile out of doors on the ground, early in the morning: which mode
I still think is in some respects more convenient and agreeable than the usual one. When it
stormed before my bread was baked, I fixed a few boards over the fire, and sat under them to
watch my loaf, and passed some pleasant hours in that way. In those days, when my hands were
much employed, I read but little, but the least scraps of paper which lay on the ground, my
holder, or tablecloth, afforded me as much entertainment, in fact answered the same purpose
as the Iliad.

It would be worth the while to build still more deliberately than I did, considering, for instance,
what foundation a door, a window, a cellar, a garret, have in the nature of man, and perchance
never raising any superstructure until we found a better reason for it than our temporal necessities
even. There is some of the same fitness in a man's building his own house that there is in
a bird's building its own nest. Who knows but if men constructed their dwellings with their
own hands, and provided food for themselves and families simply and honestly enough, the poetic
faculty would be universally developed, as birds universally sing when they are so engaged?
But alas! we do like cowbirds and cuckoos, which lay their eggs in nests which other birds
have built, and cheer no traveller with their chattering and unmusical notes. Shall we forever
resign the pleasure of construction to the carpenter? What does architecture amount to in the
experience of the mass of men? I never in all my walks came across a man engaged in so simple
and natural an occupation as building his house. We belong to the community. It is not the
tailor alone who is the ninth part of a man; it is as much the preacher, and the merchant,
and the farmer. Where is this division of labor to end? and what object does it finally serve?
No doubt another may also think for me; but it is not therefore desirable that he should do
so to the exclusion of my thinking for myself.

True, there are architects so called in this country, and I have heard of one at least possessed
with the idea of making architectural ornaments have a core of truth, a necessity, and hence
a beauty, as if it were a revelation to him. All very well perhaps from his point of view,
but only a little better than the common dilettantism. A sentimental reformer in architecture,
he began at the cornice, not at the foundation. It was only how to put a core of truth within
the ornaments, that every sugarplum, in fact, might have an almond or caraway seed in it--though
I hold that almonds are most wholesome without the sugar--and not how the inhabitant, the indweller,
might build truly within and without, and let the ornaments take care of themselves. What reasonable
man ever supposed that ornaments were something outward and in the skin merely--that the tortoise
got his spotted shell, or the shell-fish its mother-o'-pearl tints, by such a contract as the
inhabitants of Broadway their Trinity Church? But a man has no more to do with the style of
architecture of his house than a tortoise with that of its shell: nor need the soldier be so
idle as to try to paint the precise color of his virtue on his standard. The enemy will find
it out. He may turn pale when the trial comes. This man seemed to me to lean over the cornice,
and timidly whisper his half truth to the rude occupants who really knew it better than he.
What of architectural beauty I now see, I know has gradually grown from within outward, out
of the necessities and character of the indweller, who is the only builder--out of some unconscious
truthfulness, and nobleness, without ever a thought for the appearance and whatever additional
beauty of this kind is destined to be produced will be preceded by a like unconscious beauty
of life. The most interesting dwellings in this country, as the painter knows, are the most
unpretending, humble log huts and cottages of the poor commonly; it is the life of the inhabitants
whose shells they are, and not any peculiarity in their surfaces merely, which makes them picturesque;
and equally interesting will be the citizen's suburban box, when his life shall be as simple
and as agreeable to the imagination, and there is as little straining after effect in the style
of his dwelling. A great proportion of architectural ornaments are literally hollow, and a
September gale would strip them off, like borrowed plumes, without injury to the substantials.
They can do without architecture who have no olives nor wines in the cellar. What if an equal
ado were made about the ornaments of style in literature, and the architects of our bibles
spent as much time about their cornices as the architects of our churches do? So are made the
belles-lettres and the beaux-arts and their professors. Much it concerns a man, forsooth, how
a few sticks are slanted over him or under him, and what colors are daubed upon his box. It
would signify somewhat, if, in any earnest sense, he slanted them and daubed it; but the spirit
having departed out of the tenant, it is of a piece with constructing his own coffin--the architecture
of the grave--and "carpenter" is but another name for "coffin-maker." One man says, in his
despair or indifference to life, take up a handful of the earth at your feet, and paint your
house that color. Is he thinking of his last and narrow house? Toss up a copper for it as well.
What an abundance of leisure be must have! Why do you take up a handful of dirt? Better paint
your house your own complexion; let it turn pale or blush for you. An enterprise to improve
the style of cottage architecture! When you have got my ornaments ready, I will wear them.

Before winter I built a chimney, and shingled the sides of my house, which were already impervious
to rain, with imperfect and sappy shingles made of the first slice of the log, whose edges
I was obliged to straighten with a plane.

I have thus a tight shingled and plastered house, ten feet wide by fifteen long, and eight-feet
posts, with a garret and a closet, a large window on each side, two trap doors, one door at
the end, and a brick fireplace opposite. The exact cost of my house, paying the usual price
for such materials as I used, but not counting the work, all of which was done by myself, was
as follows; and I give the details because very few are able to tell exactly what their houses
cost, and fewer still, if any, the separate cost of the various materials which compose them:--

    Boards.......................... $ 8.03+, mostly shanty boards.
    Refuse shingles for roof sides...  4.00
    Laths............................  1.25
    Two second-hand windows
       with glass....................  2.43
    One thousand old brick...........  4.00
    Two casks of lime................  2.40  That was high.
    Hair.............................  0.31  More than I needed.
    Mantle-tree iron.................  0.15
    Nails............................  3.90
    Hinges and screws................  0.14
    Latch............................  0.10
    Chalk............................  0.01
    Transportation...................  1.40  I carried a good part
                                     ------- on my back.
        In all...................... $28.12+

These are all the materials, excepting the timber, stones, and sand, which I claimed by squatter's
right. I have also a small woodshed adjoining, made chiefly of the stuff which was left after
building the house.

I intend to build me a house which will surpass any on the main street in Concord in grandeur
and luxury, as soon as it pleases me as much and will cost me no more than my present one.

I thus found that the student who wishes for a shelter can obtain one for a lifetime at an
expense not greater than the rent which he now pays annually. If I seem to boast more than
is becoming, my excuse is that I brag for humanity rather than for myself; and my shortcomings
and inconsistencies do not affect the truth of my statement. Notwithstanding much cant and
hypocrisy--chaff which I find it difficult to separate from my wheat, but for which I am as
sorry as any man--I will breathe freely and stretch myself in this respect, it is such a relief
to both the moral and physical system; and I am resolved that I will not through humility become
the devil's attorney. I will endeavor to speak a good word for the truth. At Cambridge College
the mere rent of a student's room, which is only a little larger than my own, is thirty dollars
each year, though the corporation had the advantage of building thirty-two side by side and
under one roof, and the occupant suffers the inconvenience of many and noisy neighbors, and
perhaps a residence in the fourth story. I cannot but think that if we had more true wisdom
in these respects, not only less education would be needed, because, forsooth, more would already
have been acquired, but the pecuniary expense of getting an education would in a great measure
vanish. Those conveniences which the student requires at Cambridge or elsewhere cost him or
somebody else ten times as great a sacrifice of life as they would with proper management on
both sides. Those things for which the most money is demanded are never the things which the
student most wants. Tuition, for instance, is an important item in the term bill, while for
the far more valuable education which he gets by associating with the most cultivated of his
contemporaries no charge is made. The mode of founding a college is, commonly, to get up a
subscription of dollars and cents, and then, following blindly the principles of a division
of labor to its extreme--a principle which should never be followed but with circumspection--to
call in a contractor who makes this a subject of speculation, and he employs Irishmen or other
operatives actually to lay the foundations, while the students that are to be are said to be
fitting themselves for it; and for these oversights successive generations have to pay. I think
that it would be better than this, for the students, or those who desire to be benefited by
it, even to lay the foundation themselves. The student who secures his coveted leisure and
retirement by systematically shirking any labor necessary to man obtains but an ignoble and
unprofitable leisure, defrauding himself of the experience which alone can make leisure fruitful.
"But," says one, "you do not mean that the students should go to work with their hands instead
of their heads?" I do not mean that exactly, but I mean something which he might think a good
deal like that; I mean that they should not play life, or study it merely, while the community
supports them at this expensive game, but earnestly live it from beginning to end. How could
youths better learn to live than by at once trying the experiment of living? Methinks this
would exercise their minds as much as mathematics. If I wished a boy to know something about
the arts and sciences, for instance, I would not pursue the common course, which is merely
to send him into the neighborhood of some professor, where anything is professed and practised
but the art of life;--to survey the world through a telescope or a microscope, and never with
his natural eye; to study chemistry, and not learn how his bread is made, or mechanics, and
not learn how it is earned; to discover new satellites to Neptune, and not detect the motes
in his eyes, or to what vagabond he is a satellite himself; or to be devoured by the monsters
that swarm all around him, while contemplating the monsters in a drop of vinegar. Which would
have advanced the most at the end of a month--the boy who had made his own jackknife from the
ore which he had dug and smelted, reading as much as would be necessary for this--or the boy
who had attended the lectures on metallurgy at the Institute in the meanwhile, and had received
a Rodgers' penknife from his father? Which would be most likely to cut his fingers?... To my
astonishment I was informed on leaving college that I had studied navigation!--why, if I had
taken one turn down the harbor I should have known more about it. Even the poor student studies
and is taught only political economy, while that economy of living which is synonymous with
philosophy is not even sincerely professed in our colleges. The consequence is, that while
he is reading Adam Smith, Ricardo, and Say, he runs his father in debt irretrievably.

As with our colleges, so with a hundred "modern improvements"; there is an illusion about them;
there is not always a positive advance. The devil goes on exacting compound interest to the
last for his early share and numerous succeeding investments in them. Our inventions are wont
to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved
means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at; as railroads
lead to Boston or New York. We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine
to Texas; but Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to communicate. Either is
in such a predicament as the man who was earnest to be introduced to a distinguished deaf woman,
but when he was presented, and one end of her ear trumpet was put into his hand, had nothing
to say. As if the main object were to talk fast and not to talk sensibly. We are eager to tunnel
under the Atlantic and bring the Old World some weeks nearer to the New; but perchance the
first news that will leak through into the broad, flapping American ear will be that the Princess
Adelaide has the whooping cough. After all, the man whose horse trots a mile in a minute does
not carry the most important messages; he is not an evangelist, nor does he come round eating
locusts and wild honey. I doubt if Flying Childers ever carried a peck of corn to mill.

One says to me, "I wonder that you do not lay up money; you love to travel; you might take
the cars and go to Fitchburg today and see the country." But I am wiser than that. I have learned
that the swiftest traveller is he that goes afoot. I say to my friend, Suppose we try who will
get there first. The distance is thirty miles; the fare ninety cents. That is almost a day's
wages. I remember when wages were sixty cents a day for laborers on this very road. Well, I
start now on foot, and get there before night; I have travelled at that rate by the week together.
You will in the meanwhile have earned your fare, and arrive there some time tomorrow, or possibly
this evening, if you are lucky enough to get a job in season. Instead of going to Fitchburg,
you will be working here the greater part of the day. And so, if the railroad reached round
the world, I think that I should keep ahead of you; and as for seeing the country and getting
experience of that kind, I should have to cut your acquaintance altogether.

Such is the universal law, which no man can ever outwit, and with regard to the railroad even
we may say it is as broad as it is long. To make a railroad round the world available to all
mankind is equivalent to grading the whole surface of the planet. Men have an indistinct notion
that if they keep up this activity of joint stocks and spades long enough all will at length
ride somewhere, in next to no time, and for nothing; but though a crowd rushes to the depot,
and the conductor shouts "All aboard!" when the smoke is blown away and the vapor condensed,
it will be perceived that a few are riding, but the rest are run over--and it will be called,
and will be, "A melancholy accident." No doubt they can ride at last who shall have earned
their fare, that is, if they survive so long, but they will probably have lost their elasticity
and desire to travel by that time. This spending of the best part of one's life earning money
in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of
the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to
England and live the life of a poet. He should have gone up garret at once. "What!" exclaim
a million Irishmen starting up from all the shanties in the land, "is not this railroad which
we have built a good thing?" Yes, I answer, comparatively good, that is, you might have done
worse; but I wish, as you are brothers of mine, that you could have spent your time better
than digging in this dirt.

Before I finished my house, wishing to earn ten or twelve dollars by some honest and agreeable
method, in order to meet my unusual expenses, I planted about two acres and a half of light
and sandy soil near it chiefly with beans, but also a small part with potatoes, corn, peas,
and turnips. The whole lot contains eleven acres, mostly growing up to pines and hickories,
and was sold the preceding season for eight dollars and eight cents an acre. One farmer said
that it was "good for nothing but to raise cheeping squirrels on." I put no manure whatever
on this land, not being the owner, but merely a squatter, and not expecting to cultivate so
much again, and I did not quite hoe it all once. I got out several cords of stumps in plowing,
which supplied me with fuel for a long time, and left small circles of virgin mould, easily
distinguishable through the summer by the greater luxuriance of the beans there. The dead and
for the most part unmerchantable wood behind my house, and the driftwood from the pond, have
supplied the remainder of my fuel. I was obliged to hire a team and a man for the plowing,
though I held the plow myself. My farm outgoes for the first season were, for implements, seed,
work, etc., $14.72+. The seed corn was given me. This never costs anything to speak of, unless
you plant more than enough. I got twelve bushels of beans, and eighteen bushels of potatoes,
beside some peas and sweet corn. The yellow corn and turnips were too late to come to anything.
My whole income from the farm was

                                       $ 23.44
      Deducting the outgoes............  14.72+
                                         -------
      There are left.................. $  8.71+

beside produce consumed and on hand at the time this estimate was made of the value of $4.50--the
amount on hand much more than balancing a little grass which I did not raise. All things considered,
that is, considering the importance of a man's soul and of today, notwithstanding the short
time occupied by my experiment, nay, partly even because of its transient character, I believe
that that was doing better than any farmer in Concord did that year.

The next year I did better still, for I spaded up all the land which I required, about a third
of an acre, and I learned from the experience of both years, not being in the least awed by
many celebrated works on husbandry, Arthur Young among the rest, that if one would live simply
and eat only the crop which he raised, and raise no more than he ate, and not exchange it for
an insufficient quantity of more luxurious and expensive things, he would need to cultivate
only a few rods of ground, and that it would be cheaper to spade up that than to use oxen to
plow it, and to select a fresh spot from time to time than to manure the old, and he could
do all his necessary farm work as it were with his left hand at odd hours in the summer; and
thus he would not be tied to an ox, or horse, or cow, or pig, as at present. I desire to speak
impartially on this point, and as one not interested in the success or failure of the present
economical and social arrangements. I was more independent than any farmer in Concord, for
I was not anchored to a house or farm, but could follow the bent of my genius, which is a very
crooked one, every moment. Beside being better off than they already, if my house had been
burned or my crops had failed, I should have been nearly as well off as before.

I am wont to think that men are not so much the keepers of herds as herds are the keepers of
men, the former are so much the freer. Men and oxen exchange work; but if we consider necessary
work only, the oxen will be seen to have greatly the advantage, their farm is so much the larger.
Man does some of his part of the exchange work in his six weeks of haying, and it is no boy's
play. Certainly no nation that lived simply in all respects, that is, no nation of philosophers,
would commit so great a blunder as to use the labor of animals. True, there never was and is
not likely soon to be a nation of philosophers, nor am I certain it is desirable that there
should be. However, I should never have broken a horse or bull and taken him to board for any
work he might do for me, for fear I should become a horseman or a herdsman merely; and if society
seems to be the gainer by so doing, are we certain that what is one man's gain is not another's
loss, and that the stable-boy has equal cause with his master to be satisfied? Granted that
some public works would not have been constructed without this aid, and let man share the glory
of such with the ox and horse; does it follow that he could not have accomplished works yet
more worthy of himself in that case? When men begin to do, not merely unnecessary or artistic,
but luxurious and idle work, with their assistance, it is inevitable that a few do all the
exchange work with the oxen, or, in other words, become the slaves of the strongest. Man thus
not only works for the animal within him, but, for a symbol of this, he works for the animal
without him. Though we have many substantial houses of brick or stone, the prosperity of the
farmer is still measured by the degree to which the barn overshadows the house. This town is
said to have the largest houses for oxen, cows, and horses hereabouts, and it is not behindhand
in its public buildings; but there are very few halls for free worship or free speech in this
county. It should not be by their architecture, but why not even by their power of abstract
thought, that nations should seek to commemorate themselves? How much more admirable the Bhagvat-Geeta
than all the ruins of the East! Towers and temples are the luxury of princes. A simple and
independent mind does not toil at the bidding of any prince. Genius is not a retainer to any
emperor, nor is its material silver, or gold, or marble, except to a trifling extent. To what
end, pray, is so much stone hammered? In Arcadia, when I was there, I did not see any hammering
stone. Nations are possessed with an insane ambition to perpetuate the memory of themselves
by the amount of hammered stone they leave. What if equal pains were taken to smooth and polish
their manners? One piece of good sense would be more memorable than a monument as high as the
moon. I love better to see stones in place. The grandeur of Thebes was a vulgar grandeur. More
sensible is a rod of stone wall that bounds an honest man's field than a hundred-gated Thebes
that has wandered farther from the true end of life. The religion and civilization which are
barbaric and heathenish build splendid temples; but what you might call Christianity does not.
Most of the stone a nation hammers goes toward its tomb only. It buries itself alive. As for
the Pyramids, there is nothing to wonder at in them so much as the fact that so many men could
be found degraded enough to spend their lives constructing a tomb for some ambitious booby,
whom it would have been wiser and manlier to have drowned in the Nile, and then given his body
to the dogs. I might possibly invent some excuse for them and him, but I have no time for it.
As for the religion and love of art of the builders, it is much the same all the world over,
whether the building be an Egyptian temple or the United States Bank. It costs more than it
comes to. The mainspring is vanity, assisted by the love of garlic and bread and butter. Mr.
Balcom, a promising young architect, designs it on the back of his Vitruvius, with hard pencil
and ruler, and the job is let out to Dobson & Sons, stonecutters. When the thirty centuries
begin to look down on it, mankind begin to look up at it. As for your high towers and monuments,
there was a crazy fellow once in this town who undertook to dig through to China, and he got
so far that, as he said, he heard the Chinese pots and kettles rattle; but I think that I shall
not go out of my way to admire the hole which he made. Many are concerned about the monuments
of the West and the East--to know who built them. For my part, I should like to know who in
those days did not build them--who were above such trifling. But to proceed with my statistics.

By surveying, carpentry, and day-labor of various other kinds in the village in the meanwhile,
for I have as many trades as fingers, I had earned $13.34. The expense of food for eight months,
namely, from July 4th to March 1st, the time when these estimates were made, though I lived
there more than two years--not counting potatoes, a little green corn, and some peas, which
I had raised, nor considering the value of what was on hand at the last date--was

    Rice.................... $ 1.73 1/2
    Molasses.................  1.73     Cheapest form of the
                                         saccharine.
    Rye meal.................  1.04 3/4
    Indian meal..............  0.99 3/4  Cheaper than rye.
    Pork.....................  0.22
    All experiments which failed:
    Flour....................  0.88  Costs more than Indian meal,
                                      both money and trouble.
    Sugar....................  0.80
    Lard.....................  0.65
    Apples...................  0.25
    Dried apple..............  0.22
    Sweet potatoes...........  0.10
    One pumpkin..............  0.06
    One watermelon...........  0.02
    Salt.....................  0.03

Yes, I did eat $8.74, all told; but I should not thus unblushingly publish my guilt, if I did
not know that most of my readers were equally guilty with myself, and that their deeds would
look no better in print. The next year I sometimes caught a mess of fish for my dinner, and
once I went so far as to slaughter a woodchuck which ravaged my bean-field--effect his transmigration,
as a Tartar would say--and devour him, partly for experiment's sake; but though it afforded
me a momentary enjoyment, notwithstanding a musky flavor, I saw that the longest use would
not make that a good practice, however it might seem to have your woodchucks ready dressed
by the village butcher.

Clothing and some incidental expenses within the same dates, though little can be inferred
from this item, amounted to

                                            $ 8.40-3/4
    Oil and some household utensils........  2.00

So that all the pecuniary outgoes, excepting for washing and mending, which for the most part
were done out of the house, and their bills have not yet been received--and these are all and
more than all the ways by which money necessarily goes out in this part of the world--were

    House................................. $ 28.12+
    Farm one year........................... 14.72+
    Food eight months.......................  8.74
    Clothing, etc., eight months............  8.40-3/4
    Oil, etc., eight months.................  2.00
                                           -----------
        In all............................ $ 61.99-3/4

I address myself now to those of my readers who have a living to get. And to meet this I have
for farm produce sold

                                            $ 23.44
    Earned by day-labor....................  13.34
                                           -------
        In all............................ $ 36.78,

which subtracted from the sum of the outgoes leaves a balance of $25.21 3/4 on the one side--this
being very nearly the means with which I started, and the measure of expenses to be incurred--and
on the other, beside the leisure and independence and health thus secured, a comfortable house
for me as long as I choose to occupy it.

These statistics, however accidental and therefore uninstructive they may appear, as they have
a certain completeness, have a certain value also. Nothing was given me of which I have not
rendered some account. It appears from the above estimate, that my food alone cost me in money
about twenty-seven cents a week. It was, for nearly two years after this, rye and Indian meal
without yeast, potatoes, rice, a very little salt pork, molasses, and salt; and my drink, water.
It was fit that I should live on rice, mainly, who love so well the philosophy of India. To
meet the objections of some inveterate cavillers, I may as well state, that if I dined out
occasionally, as I always had done, and I trust shall have opportunities to do again, it was
frequently to the detriment of my domestic arrangements. But the dining out, being, as I have
stated, a constant element, does not in the least affect a comparative statement like this.

I learned from my two years' experience that it would cost incredibly little trouble to obtain
one's necessary food, even in this latitude; that a man may use as simple a diet as the animals,
and yet retain health and strength. I have made a satisfactory dinner, satisfactory on several
accounts, simply off a dish of purslane (Portulaca oleracea) which I gathered in my cornfield,
boiled and salted. I give the Latin on account of the savoriness of the trivial name. And pray
what more can a reasonable man desire, in peaceful times, in ordinary noons, than a sufficient
number of ears of green sweet corn boiled, with the addition of salt? Even the little variety
which I used was a yielding to the demands of appetite, and not of health. Yet men have come
to such a pass that they frequently starve, not for want of necessaries, but for want of luxuries;
and I know a good woman who thinks that her son lost his life because he took to drinking water
only.

The reader will perceive that I am treating the subject rather from an economic than a dietetic
point of view, and he will not venture to put my abstemiousness to the test unless he has a
well-stocked larder.

Bread I at first made of pure Indian meal and salt, genuine hoe-cakes, which I baked before
my fire out of doors on a shingle or the end of a stick of timber sawed off in building my
house; but it was wont to get smoked and to have a piny flavor, I tried flour also; but have
at last found a mixture of rye and Indian meal most convenient and agreeable. In cold weather
it was no little amusement to bake several small loaves of this in succession, tending and
turning them as carefully as an Egyptian his hatching eggs. They were a real cereal fruit which
I ripened, and they had to my senses a fragrance like that of other noble fruits, which I kept
in as long as possible by wrapping them in cloths. I made a study of the ancient and indispensable
art of bread-making, consulting such authorities as offered, going back to the primitive days
and first invention of the unleavened kind, when from the wildness of nuts and meats men first
reached the mildness and refinement of this diet, and travelling gradually down in my studies
through that accidental souring of the dough which, it is supposed, taught the leavening process,
and through the various fermentations thereafter, till I came to "good, sweet, wholesome bread,"
the staff of life. Leaven, which some deem the soul of bread, the spiritus which fills its
cellular tissue, which is religiously preserved like the vestal fire--some precious bottleful,
I suppose, first brought over in the Mayflower, did the business for America, and its influence
is still rising, swelling, spreading, in cerealian billows over the land--this seed I regularly
and faithfully procured from the village, till at length one morning I forgot the rules, and
scalded my yeast; by which accident I discovered that even this was not indispensable--for
my discoveries were not by the synthetic but analytic process--and I have gladly omitted it
since, though most housewives earnestly assured me that safe and wholesome bread without yeast
might not be, and elderly people prophesied a speedy decay of the vital forces. Yet I find
it not to be an essential ingredient, and after going without it for a year am still in the
land of the living; and I am glad to escape the trivialness of carrying a bottleful in my pocket,
which would sometimes pop and discharge its contents to my discomfiture. It is simpler and
more respectable to omit it. Man is an animal who more than any other can adapt himself to
all climates and circumstances. Neither did I put any sal-soda, or other acid or alkali, into
my bread. It would seem that I made it according to the recipe which Marcus Porcius Cato gave
about two centuries before Christ. "Panem depsticium sic facito. Manus mortariumque bene lavato.
Farinam in mortarium indito, aquae paulatim addito, subigitoque pulchre. Ubi bene subegeris,
defingito, coquitoque sub testu." Which I take to mean,--"Make kneaded bread thus. Wash your
hands and trough well. Put the meal into the trough, add water gradually, and knead it thoroughly.
When you have kneaded it well, mould it, and bake it under a cover," that is, in a baking kettle.
Not a word about leaven. But I did not always use this staff of life. At one time, owing to
the emptiness of my purse, I saw none of it for more than a month.

Every New Englander might easily raise all his own breadstuffs in this land of rye and Indian
corn, and not depend on distant and fluctuating markets for them. Yet so far are we from simplicity
and independence that, in Concord, fresh and sweet meal is rarely sold in the shops, and hominy
and corn in a still coarser form are hardly used by any. For the most part the farmer gives
to his cattle and hogs the grain of his own producing, and buys flour, which is at least no
more wholesome, at a greater cost, at the store. I saw that I could easily raise my bushel
or two of rye and Indian corn, for the former will grow on the poorest land, and the latter
does not require the best, and grind them in a hand-mill, and so do without rice and pork;
and if I must have some concentrated sweet, I found by experiment that I could make a very
good molasses either of pumpkins or beets, and I knew that I needed only to set out a few maples
to obtain it more easily still, and while these were growing I could use various substitutes
beside those which I have named. "For," as the Forefathers sang,--

       "we can make liquor to sweeten our lips
        Of pumpkins and parsnips and walnut-tree chips."

Finally, as for salt, that grossest of groceries, to obtain this might be a fit occasion for
a visit to the seashore, or, if I did without it altogether, I should probably drink the less
water. I do not learn that the Indians ever troubled themselves to go after it.

Thus I could avoid all trade and barter, so far as my food was concerned, and having a shelter
already, it would only remain to get clothing and fuel. The pantaloons which I now wear were
woven in a farmer's family--thank Heaven there is so much virtue still in man; for I think
the fall from the farmer to the operative as great and memorable as that from the man to the
farmer;--and in a new country, fuel is an encumbrance. As for a habitat, if I were not permitted
still to squat, I might purchase one acre at the same price for which the land I cultivated
was sold--namely, eight dollars and eight cents. But as it was, I considered that I enhanced
the value of the land by squatting on it.

There is a certain class of unbelievers who sometimes ask me such questions as, if I think
that I can live on vegetable food alone; and to strike at the root of the matter at once--for
the root is faith--I am accustomed to answer such, that I can live on board nails. If they
cannot understand that, they cannot understand much that I have to say. For my part, I am glad
to bear of experiments of this kind being tried; as that a young man tried for a fortnight
to live on hard, raw corn on the ear, using his teeth for all mortar. The squirrel tribe tried
the same and succeeded. The human race is interested in these experiments, though a few old
women who are incapacitated for them, or who own their thirds in mills, may be alarmed.

My furniture, part of which I made myself--and the rest cost me nothing of which I have not
rendered an account--consisted of a bed, a table, a desk, three chairs, a looking-glass three
inches in diameter, a pair of tongs and andirons, a kettle, a skillet, and a frying-pan, a
dipper, a wash-bowl, two knives and forks, three plates, one cup, one spoon, a jug for oil,
a jug for molasses, and a japanned lamp. None is so poor that he need sit on a pumpkin. That
is shiftlessness. There is a plenty of such chairs as I like best in the village garrets to
be had for taking them away. Furniture! Thank God, I can sit and I can stand without the aid
of a furniture warehouse. What man but a philosopher would not be ashamed to see his furniture
packed in a cart and going up country exposed to the light of heaven and the eyes of men, a
beggarly account of empty boxes? That is Spaulding's furniture. I could never tell from inspecting
such a load whether it belonged to a so-called rich man or a poor one; the owner always seemed
poverty-stricken. Indeed, the more you have of such things the poorer you are. Each load looks
as if it contained the contents of a dozen shanties; and if one shanty is poor, this is a dozen
times as poor. Pray, for what do we move ever but to get rid of our furniture, our exuvioe:
at last to go from this world to another newly furnished, and leave this to be burned? It is
the same as if all these traps were buckled to a man's belt, and he could not move over the
rough country where our lines are cast without dragging them--dragging his trap. He was a lucky
fox that left his tail in the trap. The muskrat will gnaw his third leg off to be free. No
wonder man has lost his elasticity. How often he is at a dead set! "Sir, if I may be so bold,
what do you mean by a dead set?" If you are a seer, whenever you meet a man you will see all
that he owns, ay, and much that he pretends to disown, behind him, even to his kitchen furniture
and all the trumpery which he saves and will not burn, and he will appear to be harnessed to
it and making what headway he can. I think that the man is at a dead set who has got through
a knot-hole or gateway where his sledge load of furniture cannot follow him. I cannot but feel
compassion when I hear some trig, compact-looking man, seemingly free, all girded and ready,
speak of his "furniture," as whether it is insured or not. "But what shall I do with my furniture?"--My
gay butterfly is entangled in a spider's web then. Even those who seem for a long while not
to have any, if you inquire more narrowly you will find have some stored in somebody's barn.
I look upon England today as an old gentleman who is travelling with a great deal of baggage,
trumpery which has accumulated from long housekeeping, which he has not the courage to burn;
great trunk, little trunk, bandbox, and bundle. Throw away the first three at least. It would
surpass the powers of a well man nowadays to take up his bed and walk, and I should certainly
advise a sick one to lay down his bed and run. When I have met an immigrant tottering under
a bundle which contained his all--looking like an enormous wen which had grown out of the nape
of his neck--I have pitied him, not because that was his all, but because he had all that to
carry. If I have got to drag my trap, I will take care that it be a light one and do not nip
me in a vital part. But perchance it would be wisest never to put one's paw into it.

I would observe, by the way, that it costs me nothing for curtains, for I have no gazers to
shut out but the sun and moon, and I am willing that they should look in. The moon will not
sour milk nor taint meat of mine, nor will the sun injure my furniture or fade my carpet; and
if he is sometimes too warm a friend, I find it still better economy to retreat behind some
curtain which nature has provided, than to add a single item to the details of housekeeping.
A lady once offered me a mat, but as I had no room to spare within the house, nor time to spare
within or without to shake it, I declined it, preferring to wipe my feet on the sod before
my door. It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil.

Not long since I was present at the auction of a deacon's effects, for his life had not been
ineffectual:--

  "The evil that men do lives after them."

As usual, a great proportion was trumpery which had begun to accumulate in his father's day.
Among the rest was a dried tapeworm. And now, after lying half a century in his garret and
other dust holes, these things were not burned; instead of a bonfire, or purifying destruction
of them, there was an auction, or increasing of them. The neighbors eagerly collected to view
them, bought them all, and carefully transported them to their garrets and dust holes, to lie
there till their estates are settled, when they will start again. When a man dies he kicks
the dust.

The customs of some savage nations might, perchance, be profitably imitated by us, for they
at least go through the semblance of casting their slough annually; they have the idea of the
thing, whether they have the reality or not. Would it not be well if we were to celebrate such
a "busk," or "feast of first fruits," as Bartram describes to have been the custom of the Mucclasse
Indians? "When a town celebrates the busk," says he, "having previously provided themselves
with new clothes, new pots, pans, and other household utensils and furniture, they collect
all their worn out clothes and other despicable things, sweep and cleanse their houses, squares,
and the whole town of their filth, which with all the remaining grain and other old provisions
they cast together into one common heap, and consume it with fire. After having taken medicine,
and fasted for three days, all the fire in the town is extinguished. During this fast they
abstain from the gratification of every appetite and passion whatever. A general amnesty is
proclaimed; all malefactors may return to their town."

"On the fourth morning, the high priest, by rubbing dry wood together, produces new fire in
the public square, from whence every habitation in the town is supplied with the new and pure
flame."

They then feast on the new corn and fruits, and dance and sing for three days, "and the four
following days they receive visits and rejoice with their friends from neighboring towns who
have in like manner purified and prepared themselves."

The Mexicans also practised a similar purification at the end of every fifty-two years, in
the belief that it was time for the world to come to an end.

I have scarcely heard of a truer sacrament, that is, as the dictionary defines it, "outward
and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace," than this, and I have no doubt that they
were originally inspired directly from Heaven to do thus, though they have no Biblical record
of the revelation.

For more than five years I maintained myself thus solely by the labor of my hands, and I found
that, by working about six weeks in a year, I could meet all the expenses of living. The whole
of my winters, as well as most of my summers, I had free and clear for study. I have thoroughly
tried school-keeping, and found that my expenses were in proportion, or rather out of proportion,
to my income, for I was obliged to dress and train, not to say think and believe, accordingly,
and I lost my time into the bargain. As I did not teach for the good of my fellow-men, but
simply for a livelihood, this was a failure. I have tried trade but I found that it would take
ten years to get under way in that, and that then I should probably be on my way to the devil.
I was actually afraid that I might by that time be doing what is called a good business. When
formerly I was looking about to see what I could do for a living, some sad experience in conforming
to the wishes of friends being fresh in my mind to tax my ingenuity, I thought often and seriously
of picking huckleberries; that surely I could do, and its small profits might suffice--for
my greatest skill has been to want but little--so little capital it required, so little distraction
from my wonted moods, I foolishly thought. While my acquaintances went unhesitatingly into
trade or the professions, I contemplated this occupation as most like theirs; ranging the hills
all summer to pick the berries which came in my way, and thereafter carelessly dispose of them;
so, to keep the flocks of Admetus. I also dreamed that I might gather the wild herbs, or carry
evergreens to such villagers as loved to be reminded of the woods, even to the city, by hay-cart
loads. But I have since learned that trade curses everything it handles; and though you trade
in messages from heaven, the whole curse of trade attaches to the business.

As I preferred some things to others, and especially valued my freedom, as I could fare hard
and yet succeed well, I did not wish to spend my time in earning rich carpets or other fine
furniture, or delicate cookery, or a house in the Grecian or the Gothic style just yet. If
there are any to whom it is no interruption to acquire these things, and who know how to use
them when acquired, I relinquish to them the pursuit. Some are "industrious," and appear to
love labor for its own sake, or perhaps because it keeps them out of worse mischief; to such
I have at present nothing to say. Those who would not know what to do with more leisure than
they now enjoy, I might advise to work twice as hard as they do--work till they pay for themselves,
and get their free papers. For myself I found that the occupation of a day-laborer was the
most independent of any, especially as it required only thirty or forty days in a year to support
one. The laborer's day ends with the going down of the sun, and he is then free to devote himself
to his chosen pursuit, independent of his labor; but his employer, who speculates from month
to month, has no respite from one end of the year to the other.

In short, I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain one's self on this
earth is not a hardship but a pastime, if we will live simply and wisely; as the pursuits of
the simpler nations are still the sports of the more artificial. It is not necessary that a
man should earn his living by the sweat of his brow, unless he sweats easier than I do.

One young man of my acquaintance, who has inherited some acres, told me that he thought he
should live as I did, if he had the means. I would not have any one adopt my mode of living
on any account; for, beside that before he has fairly learned it I may have found out another
for myself, I desire that there may be as many different persons in the world as possible;
but I would have each one be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his father's
or his mother's or his neighbor's instead. The youth may build or plant or sail, only let him
not be hindered from doing that which he tells me he would like to do. It is by a mathematical
point only that we are wise, as the sailor or the fugitive slave keeps the polestar in his
eye; but that is sufficient guidance for all our life. We may not arrive at our port within
a calculable period, but we would preserve the true course.

Undoubtedly, in this case, what is true for one is truer still for a thousand, as a large house
is not proportionally more expensive than a small one, since one roof may cover, one cellar
underlie, and one wall separate several apartments. But for my part, I preferred the solitary
dwelling. Moreover, it will commonly be cheaper to build the whole yourself than to convince
another of the advantage of the common wall; and when you have done this, the common partition,
to be much cheaper, must be a thin one, and that other may prove a bad neighbor, and also not
keep his side in repair. The only co-operation which is commonly possible is exceedingly partial
and superficial; and what little true co-operation there is, is as if it were not, being a
harmony inaudible to men. If a man has faith, he will co-operate with equal faith everywhere;
if he has not faith, he will continue to live like the rest of the world, whatever company
he is joined to. To co-operate in the highest as well as the lowest sense, means to get our
living together. I heard it proposed lately that two young men should travel together over
the world, the one without money, earning his means as he went, before the mast and behind
the plow, the other carrying a bill of exchange in his pocket. It was easy to see that they
could not long be companions or co-operate, since one would not operate at all. They would
part at the first interesting crisis in their adventures. Above all, as I have implied, the
man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with another must wait till that other
is ready, and it may be a long time before they get off.

But all this is very selfish, I have heard some of my townsmen say. I confess that I have hitherto
indulged very little in philanthropic enterprises. I have made some sacrifices to a sense of
duty, and among others have sacrificed this pleasure also. There are those who have used all
their arts to persuade me to undertake the support of some poor family in the town; and if
I had nothing to do--for the devil finds employment for the idle--I might try my hand at some
such pastime as that. However, when I have thought to indulge myself in this respect, and lay
their Heaven under an obligation by maintaining certain poor persons in all respects as comfortably
as I maintain myself, and have even ventured so far as to make them the offer, they have one
and all unhesitatingly preferred to remain poor. While my townsmen and women are devoted in
so many ways to the good of their fellows, I trust that one at least may be spared to other
and less humane pursuits. You must have a genius for charity as well as for anything else.
As for Doing-good, that is one of the professions which are full. Moreover, I have tried it
fairly, and, strange as it may seem, am satisfied that it does not agree with my constitution.
Probably I should not consciously and deliberately forsake my particular calling to do the
good which society demands of me, to save the universe from annihilation; and I believe that
a like but infinitely greater steadfastness elsewhere is all that now preserves it. But I would
not stand between any man and his genius; and to him who does this work, which I decline, with
his whole heart and soul and life, I would say, Persevere, even if the world call it doing
evil, as it is most likely they will.

I am far from supposing that my case is a peculiar one; no doubt many of my readers would make
a similar defence. At doing something--I will not engage that my neighbors shall pronounce
it good--I do not hesitate to say that I should be a capital fellow to hire; but what that
is, it is for my employer to find out. What good I do, in the common sense of that word, must
be aside from my main path, and for the most part wholly unintended. Men say, practically,
Begin where you are and such as you are, without aiming mainly to become of more worth, and
with kindness aforethought go about doing good. If I were to preach at all in this strain,
I should say rather, Set about being good. As if the sun should stop when he had kindled his
fires up to the splendor of a moon or a star of the sixth magnitude, and go about like a Robin
Goodfellow, peeping in at every cottage window, inspiring lunatics, and tainting meats, and
making darkness visible, instead of steadily increasing his genial heat and beneficence till
he is of such brightness that no mortal can look him in the face, and then, and in the meanwhile
too, going about the world in his own orbit, doing it good, or rather, as a truer philosophy
has discovered, the world going about him getting good. When Phaeton, wishing to prove his
heavenly birth by his beneficence, had the sun's chariot but one day, and drove out of the
beaten track, he burned several blocks of houses in the lower streets of heaven, and scorched
the surface of the earth, and dried up every spring, and made the great desert of Sahara, till
at length Jupiter hurled him headlong to the earth with a thunderbolt, and the sun, through
grief at his death, did not shine for a year.

There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted. It is human, it is divine,
carrion. If I knew for a certainty that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design
of doing me good, I should run for my life, as from that dry and parching wind of the African
deserts called the simoom, which fills the mouth and nose and ears and eyes with dust till
you are suffocated, for fear that I should get some of his good done to me--some of its virus
mingled with my blood. No--in this case I would rather suffer evil the natural way. A man is
not a good man to me because he will feed me if I should be starving, or warm me if I should
be freezing, or pull me out of a ditch if I should ever fall into one. I can find you a Newfoundland
dog that will do as much. Philanthropy is not love for one's fellow-man in the broadest sense.
Howard was no doubt an exceedingly kind and worthy man in his way, and has his reward; but,
comparatively speaking, what are a hundred Howards to us, if their philanthropy do not help
us in our best estate, when we are most worthy to be helped? I never heard of a philanthropic
meeting in which it was sincerely proposed to do any good to me, or the like of me.

The Jesuits were quite balked by those Indians who, being burned at the stake, suggested new
modes of torture to their tormentors. Being superior to physical suffering, it sometimes chanced
that they were superior to any consolation which the missionaries could offer; and the law
to do as you would be done by fell with less persuasiveness on the ears of those who, for their
part, did not care how they were done by, who loved their enemies after a new fashion, and
came very near freely forgiving them all they did.

Be sure that you give the poor the aid they most need, though it be your example which leaves
them far behind. If you give money, spend yourself with it, and do not merely abandon it to
them. We make curious mistakes sometimes. Often the poor man is not so cold and hungry as he
is dirty and ragged and gross. It is partly his taste, and not merely his misfortune. If you
give him money, he will perhaps buy more rags with it. I was wont to pity the clumsy Irish
laborers who cut ice on the pond, in such mean and ragged clothes, while I shivered in my more
tidy and somewhat more fashionable garments, till, one bitter cold day, one who had slipped
into the water came to my house to warm him, and I saw him strip off three pairs of pants and
two pairs of stockings ere he got down to the skin, though they were dirty and ragged enough,
it is true, and that he could afford to refuse the extra garments which I offered him, he had
so many intra ones. This ducking was the very thing he needed. Then I began to pity myself,
and I saw that it would be a greater charity to bestow on me a flannel shirt than a whole slop-shop
on him. There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the
root, and it may be that he who bestows the largest amount of time and money on the needy is
doing the most by his mode of life to produce that misery which he strives in vain to relieve.
It is the pious slave-breeder devoting the proceeds of every tenth slave to buy a Sunday's
liberty for the rest. Some show their kindness to the poor by employing them in their kitchens.
Would they not be kinder if they employed themselves there? You boast of spending a tenth part
of your income in charity; maybe you should spend the nine tenths so, and done with it. Society
recovers only a tenth part of the property then. Is this owing to the generosity of him in
whose possession it is found, or to the remissness of the officers of justice?

Philanthropy is almost the only virtue which is sufficiently appreciated by mankind. Nay, it
is greatly overrated; and it is our selfishness which overrates it. A robust poor man, one
sunny day here in Concord, praised a fellow-townsman to me, because, as he said, he was kind
to the poor; meaning himself. The kind uncles and aunts of the race are more esteemed than
its true spiritual fathers and mothers. I once heard a reverend lecturer on England, a man
of learning and intelligence, after enumerating her scientific, literary, and political worthies,
Shakespeare, Bacon, Cromwell, Milton, Newton, and others, speak next of her Christian heroes,
whom, as if his profession required it of him, he elevated to a place far above all the rest,
as the greatest of the great. They were Penn, Howard, and Mrs. Fry. Every one must feel the
falsehood and cant of this. The last were not England's best men and women; only, perhaps,
her best philanthropists.

I would not subtract anything from the praise that is due to philanthropy, but merely demand
justice for all who by their lives and works are a blessing to mankind. I do not value chiefly
a man's uprightness and benevolence, which are, as it were, his stem and leaves. Those plants
of whose greenness withered we make herb tea for the sick serve but a humble use, and are most
employed by quacks. I want the flower and fruit of a man; that some fragrance be wafted over
from him to me, and some ripeness flavor our intercourse. His goodness must not be a partial
and transitory act, but a constant superfluity, which costs him nothing and of which he is
unconscious. This is a charity that hides a multitude of sins. The philanthropist too often
surrounds mankind with the remembrance of his own castoff griefs as an atmosphere, and calls
it sympathy. We should impart our courage, and not our despair, our health and ease, and not
our disease, and take care that this does not spread by contagion. From what southern plains
comes up the voice of wailing? Under what latitudes reside the heathen to whom we would send
light? Who is that intemperate and brutal man whom we would redeem? If anything ail a man,
so that he does not perform his functions, if he have a pain in his bowels even--for that is
the seat of sympathy--he forthwith sets about reforming--the world. Being a microcosm himself,
he discovers--and it is a true discovery, and he is the man to make it--that the world has
been eating green apples; to his eyes, in fact, the globe itself is a great green apple, which
there is danger awful to think of that the children of men will nibble before it is ripe; and
straightway his drastic philanthropy seeks out the Esquimau and the Patagonian, and embraces
the populous Indian and Chinese villages; and thus, by a few years of philanthropic activity,
the powers in the meanwhile using him for their own ends, no doubt, he cures himself of his
dyspepsia, the globe acquires a faint blush on one or both of its cheeks, as if it were beginning
to be ripe, and life loses its crudity and is once more sweet and wholesome to live. I never
dreamed of any enormity greater than I have committed. I never knew, and never shall know,
a worse man than myself.

I believe that what so saddens the reformer is not his sympathy with his fellows in distress,
but, though he be the holiest son of God, is his private ail. Let this be righted, let the
spring come to him, the morning rise over his couch, and he will forsake his generous companions
without apology. My excuse for not lecturing against the use of tobacco is, that I never chewed
it, that is a penalty which reformed tobacco-chewers have to pay; though there are things enough
I have chewed which I could lecture against. If you should ever be betrayed into any of these
philanthropies, do not let your left hand know what your right hand does, for it is not worth
knowing. Rescue the drowning and tie your shoestrings. Take your time, and set about some free
labor.

Our manners have been corrupted by communication with the saints. Our hymn-books resound with
a melodious cursing of God and enduring Him forever. One would say that even the prophets and
redeemers had rather consoled the fears than confirmed the hopes of man. There is nowhere recorded
a simple and irrepressible satisfaction with the gift of life, any memorable praise of God.
All health and success does me good, however far off and withdrawn it may appear; all disease
and failure helps to make me sad and does me evil, however much sympathy it may have with me
or I with it. If, then, we would indeed restore mankind by truly Indian, botanic, magnetic,
or natural means, let us first be as simple and well as Nature ourselves, dispel the clouds
which hang over our own brows, and take up a little life into our pores. Do not stay to be
an overseer of the poor, but endeavor to become one of the worthies of the world.

I read in the Gulistan, or Flower Garden, of Sheik Sadi of Shiraz, that "they asked a wise
man, saying: Of the many celebrated trees which the Most High God has created lofty and umbrageous,
they call none azad, or free, excepting the cypress, which bears no fruit; what mystery is
there in this? He replied, Each has its appropriate produce, and appointed season, during the
continuance of which it is fresh and blooming, and during their absence dry and withered; to
neither of which states is the cypress exposed, being always flourishing; and of this nature
are the azads, or religious independents.--Fix not thy heart on that which is transitory; for
the Dijlah, or Tigris, will continue to flow through Bagdad after the race of caliphs is extinct:
if thy hand has plenty, be liberal as the date tree; but if it affords nothing to give away,
be an azad, or free man, like the cypress."

                        COMPLEMENTAL VERSES
                    The Pretensions of Poverty
          Thou dost presume too much, poor needy wretch,
          To claim a station in the firmament
          Because thy humble cottage, or thy tub,
          Nurses some lazy or pedantic virtue
          In the cheap sunshine or by shady springs,
          With roots and pot-herbs; where thy right hand,
          Tearing those humane passions from the mind,
          Upon whose stocks fair blooming virtues flourish,
          Degradeth nature, and benumbeth sense,
          And, Gorgon-like, turns active men to stone.
          We not require the dull society
          Of your necessitated temperance,
          Or that unnatural stupidity
          That knows nor joy nor sorrow; nor your forc'd
          Falsely exalted passive fortitude
          Above the active.  This low abject brood,
          That fix their seats in mediocrity,
          Become your servile minds; but we advance
          Such virtues only as admit excess,
          Brave, bounteous acts, regal magnificence,
          All-seeing prudence, magnanimity
          That knows no bound, and that heroic virtue
          For which antiquity hath left no name,
          But patterns only, such as Hercules,
          Achilles, Theseus.  Back to thy loath'd cell;
          And when thou seest the new enlightened sphere,
          Study to know but what those worthies were.
                                 T. CAREW

Where I Lived, and What I Lived For

At a certain season of our life we are accustomed to consider every spot as the possible site
of a house. I have thus surveyed the country on every side within a dozen miles of where I
live. In imagination I have bought all the farms in succession, for all were to be bought,
and I knew their price. I walked over each farmer's premises, tasted his wild apples, discoursed
on husbandry with him, took his farm at his price, at any price, mortgaging it to him in my
mind; even put a higher price on it--took everything but a deed of it--took his word for his
deed, for I dearly love to talk--cultivated it, and him too to some extent, I trust, and withdrew
when I had enjoyed it long enough, leaving him to carry it on. This experience entitled me
to be regarded as a sort of real-estate broker by my friends. Wherever I sat, there I might
live, and the landscape radiated from me accordingly. What is a house but a sedes, a seat?--better
if a country seat. I discovered many a site for a house not likely to be soon improved, which
some might have thought too far from the village, but to my eyes the village was too far from
it. Well, there I might live, I said; and there I did live, for an hour, a summer and a winter
life; saw how I could let the years run off, buffet the winter through, and see the spring
come in. The future inhabitants of this region, wherever they may place their houses, may be
sure that they have been anticipated. An afternoon sufficed to lay out the land into orchard,
wood-lot, and pasture, and to decide what fine oaks or pines should be left to stand before
the door, and whence each blasted tree could be seen to the best advantage; and then I let
it lie, fallow, perchance, for a man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he
can afford to let alone.

My imagination carried me so far that I even had the refusal of several farms--the refusal
was all I wanted--but I never got my fingers burned by actual possession. The nearest that
I came to actual possession was when I bought the Hollowell place, and had begun to sort my
seeds, and collected materials with which to make a wheelbarrow to carry it on or off with;
but before the owner gave me a deed of it, his wife--every man has such a wife--changed her
mind and wished to keep it, and he offered me ten dollars to release him. Now, to speak the
truth, I had but ten cents in the world, and it surpassed my arithmetic to tell, if I was that
man who had ten cents, or who had a farm, or ten dollars, or all together. However, I let him
keep the ten dollars and the farm too, for I had carried it far enough; or rather, to be generous,
I sold him the farm for just what I gave for it, and, as he was not a rich man, made him a
present of ten dollars, and still had my ten cents, and seeds, and materials for a wheelbarrow
left. I found thus that I had been a rich man without any damage to my poverty. But I retained
the landscape, and I have since annually carried off what it yielded without a wheelbarrow.
With respect to landscapes,

               "I am monarch of all I survey,
                My right there is none to dispute."

I have frequently seen a poet withdraw, having enjoyed the most valuable part of a farm, while
the crusty farmer supposed that he had got a few wild apples only. Why, the owner does not
know it for many years when a poet has put his farm in rhyme, the most admirable kind of invisible
fence, has fairly impounded it, milked it, skimmed it, and got all the cream, and left the
farmer only the skimmed milk.

The real attractions of the Hollowell farm, to me, were: its complete retirement, being, about
two miles from the village, half a mile from the nearest neighbor, and separated from the highway
by a broad field; its bounding on the river, which the owner said protected it by its fogs
from frosts in the spring, though that was nothing to me; the gray color and ruinous state
of the house and barn, and the dilapidated fences, which put such an interval between me and
the last occupant; the hollow and lichen-covered apple trees, nawed by rabbits, showing what
kind of neighbors I should have; but above all, the recollection I had of it from my earliest
voyages up the river, when the house was concealed behind a dense grove of red maples, through
which I heard the house-dog bark. I was in haste to buy it, before the proprietor finished
getting out some rocks, cutting down the hollow apple trees, and grubbing up some young birches
which had sprung up in the pasture, or, in short, had made any more of his improvements. To
enjoy these advantages I was ready to carry it on; like Atlas, to take the world on my shoulders--I
never heard what compensation he received for that--and do all those things which had no other
motive or excuse but that I might pay for it and be unmolested in my possession of it; for
I knew all the while that it would yield the most abundant crop of the kind I wanted, if I
could only afford to let it alone. But it turned out as I have said.

All that I could say, then, with respect to farming on a large scale--I have always cultivated
a garden--was, that I had had my seeds ready. Many think that seeds improve with age. I have
no doubt that time discriminates between the good and the bad; and when at last I shall plant,
I shall be less likely to be disappointed. But I would say to my fellows, once for all, As
long as possible live free and uncommitted. It makes but little difference whether you are
committed to a farm or the county jail.

Old Cato, whose "De Re Rustica" is my "Cultivator," says--and the only translation I have seen
makes sheer nonsense of the passage--"When you think of getting a farm turn it thus in your
mind, not to buy greedily; nor spare your pains to look at it, and do not think it enough to
go round it once. The oftener you go there the more it will please you, if it is good." I think
I shall not buy greedily, but go round and round it as long as I live, and be buried in it
first, that it may please me the more at last.

The present was my next experiment of this kind, which I purpose to describe more at length,
for convenience putting the experience of two years into one. As I have said, I do not propose
to write an ode to dejection, but to brag as lustily as chanticleer in the morning, standing
on his roost, if only to wake my neighbors up.

When first I took up my abode in the woods, that is, began to spend my nights as well as days
there, which, by accident, was on Independence Day, or the Fourth of July, 1845, my house was
not finished for winter, but was merely a defence against the rain, without plastering or chimney,
the walls being of rough, weather-stained boards, with wide chinks, which made it cool at night.
The upright white hewn studs and freshly planed door and window casings gave it a clean and
airy look, especially in the morning, when its timbers were saturated with dew, so that I fancied
that by noon some sweet gum would exude from them. To my imagination it retained throughout
the day more or less of this auroral character, reminding me of a certain house on a mountain
which I had visited a year before. This was an airy and unplastered cabin, fit to entertain
a travelling god, and where a goddess might trail her garments. The winds which passed over
my dwelling were such as sweep over the ridges of mountains, bearing the broken strains, or
celestial parts only, of terrestrial music. The morning wind forever blows, the poem of creation
is uninterrupted; but few are the ears that hear it. Olympus is but the outside of the earth
everywhere.

The only house I had been the owner of before, if I except a boat, was a tent, which I used
occasionally when making excursions in the summer, and this is still rolled up in my garret;
but the boat, after passing from hand to hand, has gone down the stream of time. With this
more substantial shelter about me, I had made some progress toward settling in the world. This
frame, so slightly clad, was a sort of crystallization around me, and reacted on the builder.
It was suggestive somewhat as a picture in outlines. I did not need to go outdoors to take
the air, for the atmosphere within had lost none of its freshness. It was not so much within
doors as behind a door where I sat, even in the rainiest weather. The Harivansa says, "An abode
without birds is like a meat without seasoning." Such was not my abode, for I found myself
suddenly neighbor to the birds; not by having imprisoned one, but having caged myself near
them. I was not only nearer to some of those which commonly frequent the garden and the orchard,
but to those smaller and more thrilling songsters of the forest which never, or rarely, serenade
a villager--the wood thrush, the veery, the scarlet tanager, the field sparrow, the whip-poor-will,
and many others.

I was seated by the shore of a small pond, about a mile and a half south of the village of
Concord and somewhat higher than it, in the midst of an extensive wood between that town and
Lincoln, and about two miles south of that our only field known to fame, Concord Battle Ground;
but I was so low in the woods that the opposite shore, half a mile off, like the rest, covered
with wood, was my most distant horizon. For the first week, whenever I looked out on the pond
it impressed me like a tarn high up on the side of a mountain, its bottom far above the surface
of other lakes, and, as the sun arose, I saw it throwing off its nightly clothing of mist,
and here and there, by degrees, its soft ripples or its smooth reflecting surface was revealed,
while the mists, like ghosts, were stealthily withdrawing in every direction into the woods,
as at the breaking up of some nocturnal conventicle. The very dew seemed to hang upon the trees
later into the day than usual, as on the sides of mountains.

This small lake was of most value as a neighbor in the intervals of a gentle rain-storm in
August, when, both air and water being perfectly still, but the sky overcast, mid-afternoon
had all the serenity of evening, and the wood thrush sang around, and was heard from shore
to shore. A lake like this is never smoother than at such a time; and the clear portion of
the air above it being, shallow and darkened by clouds, the water, full of light and reflections,
becomes a lower heaven itself so much the more important. From a hill-top near by, where the
wood had been recently cut off, there was a pleasing vista southward across the pond, through
a wide indentation in the hills which form the shore there, where their opposite sides sloping
toward each other suggested a stream flowing out in that direction through a wooded valley,
but stream there was none. That way I looked between and over the near green hills to some
distant and higher ones in the horizon, tinged with blue. Indeed, by standing on tiptoe I could
catch a glimpse of some of the peaks of the still bluer and more distant mountain ranges in
the northwest, those true-blue coins from heaven's own mint, and also of some portion of the
village. But in other directions, even from this point, I could not see over or beyond the
woods which surrounded me. It is well to have some water in your neighborhood, to give buoyancy
to and float the earth. One value even of the smallest well is, that when you look into it
you see that earth is not continent but insular. This is as important as that it keeps butter
cool. When I looked across the pond from this peak toward the Sudbury meadows, which in time
of flood I distinguished elevated perhaps by a mirage in their seething valley, like a coin
in a basin, all the earth beyond the pond appeared like a thin crust insulated and floated
even by this small sheet of interverting water, and I was reminded that this on which I dwelt
was but dry land.

Though the view from my door was still more contracted, I did not feel crowded or confined
in the least. There was pasture enough for my imagination. The low shrub oak plateau to which
the opposite shore arose stretched away toward the prairies of the West and the steppes of
Tartary, affording ample room for all the roving families of men. "There are none happy in
the world but beings who enjoy freely a vast horizon"--said Damodara, when his herds required
new and larger pastures.

Both place and time were changed, and I dwelt nearer to those parts of the universe and to
those eras in history which had most attracted me. Where I lived was as far off as many a region
viewed nightly by astronomers. We are wont to imagine rare and delectable places in some remote
and more celestial corner of the system, behind the constellation of Cassiopeia's Chair, far
from noise and disturbance. I discovered that my house actually had its site in such a withdrawn,
but forever new and unprofaned, part of the universe. If it were worth the while to settle
in those parts near to the Pleiades or the Hyades, to Aldebaran or Altair, then I was really
there, or at an equal remoteness from the life which I had left behind, dwindled and twinkling
with as fine a ray to my nearest neighbor, and to be seen only in moonless nights by him. Such
was that part of creation where I had squatted;

              "There was a shepherd that did live,
                  And held his thoughts as high
               As were the mounts whereon his flocks
                  Did hourly feed him by."

What should we think of the shepherd's life if his flocks always wandered to higher pastures
than his thoughts?

Every morning was a cheerful invitation to make my life of equal simplicity, and I may say
innocence, with Nature herself. I have been as sincere a worshipper of Aurora as the Greeks.
I got up early and bathed in the pond; that was a religious exercise, and one of the best things
which I did. They say that characters were engraven on the bathing tub of King Tchingthang
to this effect: "Renew thyself completely each day; do it again, and again, and forever again."
I can understand that. Morning brings back the heroic ages. I was as much affected by the faint
hum of a mosquito making its invisible and unimaginable tour through my apartment at earliest
dawn, when I was sitting with door and windows open, as I could be by any trumpet that ever
sang of fame. It was Homer's requiem; itself an Iliad and Odyssey in the air, singing its own
wrath and wanderings. There was something cosmical about it; a standing advertisement, till
forbidden, of the everlasting vigor and fertility of the world. The morning, which is the most
memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and
for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night.
Little is to be expected of that day, if it can be called a day, to which we are not awakened
by our Genius, but by the mechanical nudgings of some servitor, are not awakened by our own
newly acquired force and aspirations from within, accompanied by the undulations of celestial
music, instead of factory bells, and a fragrance filling the air--to a higher life than we
fell asleep from; and thus the darkness bear its fruit, and prove itself to be good, no less
than the light. That man who does not believe that each day contains an earlier, more sacred,
and auroral hour than he has yet profaned, has despaired of life, and is pursuing a descending
and darkening way. After a partial cessation of his sensuous life, the soul of man, or its
organs rather, are reinvigorated each day, and his Genius tries again what noble life it can
make. All memorable events, I should say, transpire in morning time and in a morning atmosphere.
The Vedas say, "All intelligences awake with the morning." Poetry and art, and the fairest
and most memorable of the actions of men, date from such an hour. All poets and heroes, like
Memnon, are the children of Aurora, and emit their music at sunrise. To him whose elastic and
vigorous thought keeps pace with the sun, the day is a perpetual morning. It matters not what
the clocks say or the attitudes and labors of men. Morning is when I am awake and there is
a dawn in me. Moral reform is the effort to throw off sleep. Why is it that men give so poor
an account of their day if they have not been slumbering? They are not such poor calculators.
If they had not been overcome with drowsiness, they would have performed something. The millions
are awake enough for physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective
intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake
is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. How could I have looked him
in the face?

We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an infinite
expectation of the dawn, which does not forsake us in our soundest sleep. I know of no more
encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious
endeavor. It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, or to carve a statue, and
so to make a few objects beautiful; but it is far more glorious to carve and paint the very
atmosphere and medium through which we look, which morally we can do. To affect the quality
of the day, that is the highest of arts. Every man is tasked to make his life, even in its
details, worthy of the contemplation of his most elevated and critical hour. If we refused,
or rather used up, such paltry information as we get, the oracles would distinctly inform us
how this might be done.

I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts
of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover
that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did
I wish to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck
out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that
was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce
it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine
meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by
experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion. For most men, it
appears to me, are in a strange uncertainty about it, whether it is of the devil or of God,
and have somewhat hastily concluded that it is the chief end of man here to "glorify God and
enjoy him forever."

Still we live meanly, like ants; though the fable tells us that we were long ago changed into
men; like pygmies we fight with cranes; it is error upon error, and clout upon clout, and our
best virtue has for its occasion a superfluous and evitable wretchedness. Our life is frittered
away by detail. An honest man has hardly need to count more than his ten fingers, or in extreme
cases he may add his ten toes, and lump the rest. Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say,
let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million
count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb-nail. In the midst of this chopping
sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms and quicksands and thousand-and-one items
to be allowed for, that a man has to live, if he would not founder and go to the bottom and
not make his port at all, by dead reckoning, and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds.
Simplify, simplify. Instead of three meals a day, if it be necessary eat but one; instead of
a hundred dishes, five; and reduce other things in proportion. Our life is like a German Confederacy,
made up of petty states, with its boundary forever fluctuating, so that even a German cannot
tell you how it is bounded at any moment. The nation itself, with all its so-called internal
improvements, which, by the way are all external and superficial, is just such an unwieldy
and overgrown establishment, cluttered with furniture and tripped up by its own traps, ruined
by luxury and heedless expense, by want of calculation and a worthy aim, as the million households
in the land; and the only cure for it, as for them, is in a rigid economy, a stern and more
than Spartan simplicity of life and elevation of purpose. It lives too fast. Men think that
it is essential that the Nation have commerce, and export ice, and talk through a telegraph,
and ride thirty miles an hour, without a doubt, whether they do or not; but whether we should
live like baboons or like men, is a little uncertain. If we do not get out sleepers, and forge
rails, and devote days and nights to the work, but go to tinkering upon our lives to improve
them, who will build railroads? And if railroads are not built, how shall we get to heaven
in season? But if we stay at home and mind our business, who will want railroads? We do not
ride on the railroad; it rides upon us. Did you ever think what those sleepers are that underlie
the railroad? Each one is a man, an Irishman, or a Yankee man. The rails are laid on them,
and they are covered with sand, and the cars run smoothly over them. They are sound sleepers,
I assure you. And every few years a new lot is laid down and run over; so that, if some have
the pleasure of riding on a rail, others have the misfortune to be ridden upon. And when they
run over a man that is walking in his sleep, a supernumerary sleeper in the wrong position,
and wake him up, they suddenly stop the cars, and make a hue and cry about it, as if this were
an exception. I am glad to know that it takes a gang of men for every five miles to keep the
sleepers down and level in their beds as it is, for this is a sign that they may sometime get
up again.

Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to be starved before
we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves nine, and so they take a thousand stitches
today to save nine tomorrow. As for work, we haven't any of any consequence. We have the Saint
Vitus' dance, and cannot possibly keep our heads still. If I should only give a few pulls at
the parish bell-rope, as for a fire, that is, without setting the bell, there is hardly a man
on his farm in the outskirts of Concord, notwithstanding that press of engagements which was
his excuse so many times this morning, nor a boy, nor a woman, I might almost say, but would
forsake all and follow that sound, not mainly to save property from the flames, but, if we
will confess the truth, much more to see it burn, since burn it must, and we, be it known,
did not set it on fire--or to see it put out, and have a hand in it, if that is done as handsomely;
yes, even if it were the parish church itself. Hardly a man takes a half-hour's nap after dinner,
but when he wakes he holds up his head and asks, "What's the news?" as if the rest of mankind
had stood his sentinels. Some give directions to be waked every half-hour, doubtless for no
other purpose; and then, to pay for it, they tell what they have dreamed. After a night's sleep
the news is as indispensable as the breakfast. "Pray tell me anything new that has happened
to a man anywhere on this globe"--and he reads it over his coffee and rolls, that a man has
had his eyes gouged out this morning on the Wachito River; never dreaming the while that he
lives in the dark unfathomed mammoth cave of this world, and has but the rudiment of an eye
himself.

For my part, I could easily do without the post-office. I think that there are very few important
communications made through it. To speak critically, I never received more than one or two
letters in my life--I wrote this some years ago--that were worth the postage. The penny-post
is, commonly, an institution through which you seriously offer a man that penny for his thoughts
which is so often safely offered in jest. And I am sure that I never read any memorable news
in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house
burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on the Western
Railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter--we never need read
of another. One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a
myriad instances and applications? To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and
they who edit and read it are old women over their tea. Yet not a few are greedy after this
gossip. There was such a rush, as I hear, the other day at one of the offices to learn the
foreign news by the last arrival, that several large squares of plate glass belonging to the
establishment were broken by the pressure--news which I seriously think a ready wit might write
a twelve-month, or twelve years, beforehand with sufficient accuracy. As for Spain, for instance,
if you know how to throw in Don Carlos and the Infanta, and Don Pedro and Seville and Granada,
from time to time in the right proportions--they may have changed the names a little since
I saw the papers--and serve up a bull-fight when other entertainments fail, it will be true
to the letter, and give us as good an idea of the exact state or ruin of things in Spain as
the most succinct and lucid reports under this head in the newspapers: and as for England,
almost the last significant scrap of news from that quarter was the revolution of 1649; and
if you have learned the history of her crops for an average year, you never need attend to
that thing again, unless your speculations are of a merely pecuniary character. If one may
judge who rarely looks into the newspapers, nothing new does ever happen in foreign parts,
a French revolution not excepted.

What news! how much more important to know what that is which was never old! "Kieou-he-yu (great
dignitary of the state of Wei) sent a man to Khoung-tseu to know his news. Khoung-tseu caused
the messenger to be seated near him, and questioned him in these terms: What is your master
doing? The messenger answered with respect: My master desires to diminish the number of his
faults, but he cannot come to the end of them. The messenger being gone, the philosopher remarked:
What a worthy messenger! What a worthy messenger!" The preacher, instead of vexing the ears
of drowsy farmers on their day of rest at the end of the week--for Sunday is the fit conclusion
of an ill-spent week, and not the fresh and brave beginning of a new one--with this one other
draggle-tail of a sermon, should shout with thundering voice, "Pause! Avast! Why so seeming
fast, but deadly slow?"

Shams and delusions are esteemed for soundest truths, while reality is fabulous. If men would
steadily observe realities only, and not allow themselves to be deluded, life, to compare it
with such things as we know, would be like a fairy tale and the Arabian Nights' Entertainments.
If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be, music and poetry would resound
along the streets. When we are unhurried and wise, we perceive that only great and worthy things
have any permanent and absolute existence, that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the
shadow of the reality. This is always exhilarating and sublime. By closing the eyes and slumbering,
and consenting to be deceived by shows, men establish and confirm their daily life of routine
and habit everywhere, which still is built on purely illusory foundations. Children, who play
life, discern its true law and relations more clearly than men, who fail to live it worthily,
but who think that they are wiser by experience, that is, by failure. I have read in a Hindoo
book, that "there was a king's son, who, being expelled in infancy from his native city, was
brought up by a forester, and, growing up to maturity in that state, imagined himself to belong
to the barbarous race with which he lived. One of his father's ministers having discovered
him, revealed to him what he was, and the misconception of his character was removed, and he
knew himself to be a prince. So soul," continues the Hindoo philosopher, "from the circumstances
in which it is placed, mistakes its own character, until the truth is revealed to it by some
holy teacher, and then it knows itself to be Brahme." I perceive that we inhabitants of New
England live this mean life that we do because our vision does not penetrate the surface of
things. We think that that is which appears to be. If a man should walk through this town and
see only the reality, where, think you, would the "Mill-dam" go to? If he should give us an
account of the realities he beheld there, we should not recognize the place in his description.
Look at a meeting-house, or a court-house, or a jail, or a shop, or a dwelling-house, and say
what that thing really is before a true gaze, and they would all go to pieces in your account
of them. Men esteem truth remote, in the outskirts of the system, behind the farthest star,
before Adam and after the last man. In eternity there is indeed something true and sublime.
But all these times and places and occasions are now and here. God himself culminates in the
present moment, and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages. And we are enabled
to apprehend at all what is sublime and noble only by the perpetual instilling and drenching
of the reality that surrounds us. The universe constantly and obediently answers to our conceptions;
whether we travel fast or slow, the track is laid for us. Let us spend our lives in conceiving
then. The poet or the artist never yet had so fair and noble a design but some of his posterity
at least could accomplish it.

Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature, and not be thrown off the track by every nutshell
and mosquito's wing that falls on the rails. Let us rise early and fast, or break fast, gently
and without perturbation; let company come and let company go, let the bells ring and the children
cry--determined to make a day of it. Why should we knock under and go with the stream? Let
us not be upset and overwhelmed in that terrible rapid and whirlpool called a dinner, situated
in the meridian shallows. Weather this danger and you are safe, for the rest of the way is
down hill. With unrelaxed nerves, with morning vigor, sail by it, looking another way, tied
to the mast like Ulysses. If the engine whistles, let it whistle till it is hoarse for its
pains. If the bell rings, why should we run? We will consider what kind of music they are like.
Let us settle ourselves, and work and wedge our feet downward through the mud and slush of
opinion, and prejudice, and tradition, and delusion, and appearance, that alluvion which covers
the globe, through Paris and London, through New York and Boston and Concord, through Church
and State, through poetry and philosophy and religion, till we come to a hard bottom and rocks
in place, which we can call reality, and say, This is, and no mistake; and then begin, having
a point d'appui, below freshet and frost and fire, a place where you might found a wall or
a state, or set a lamp-post safely, or perhaps a gauge, not a Nilometer, but a Realometer,
that future ages might know how deep a freshet of shams and appearances had gathered from time
to time. If you stand right fronting and face to face to a fact, you will see the sun glimmer
on both its surfaces, as if it were a cimeter, and feel its sweet edge dividing you through
the heart and marrow, and so you will happily conclude your mortal career. Be it life or death,
we crave only reality. If we are really dying, let us hear the rattle in our throats and feel
cold in the extremities; if we are alive, let us go about our business.

Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy
bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I
would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one.
I know not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been regretting that I was not as
wise as the day I was born. The intellect is a cleaver; it discerns and rifts its way into
the secret of things. I do not wish to be any more busy with my hands than is necessary. My
head is hands and feet. I feel all my best faculties concentrated in it. My instinct tells
me that my head is an organ for burrowing, as some creatures use their snout and fore paws,
and with it I would mine and burrow my way through these hills. I think that the richest vein
is somewhere hereabouts; so by the divining-rod and thin rising vapors I judge; and here I
will begin to mine.

Reading

With a little more deliberation in the choice of their pursuits, all men would perhaps become
essentially students and observers, for certainly their nature and destiny are interesting
to all alike. In accumulating property for ourselves or our posterity, in founding a family
or a state, or acquiring fame even, we are mortal; but in dealing with truth we are immortal,
and need fear no change nor accident. The oldest Egyptian or Hindoo philosopher raised a corner
of the veil from the statue of the divinity; and still the trembling robe remains raised, and
I gaze upon as fresh a glory as he did, since it was I in him that was then so bold, and it
is he in me that now reviews the vision. No dust has settled on that robe; no time has elapsed
since that divinity was revealed. That time which we really improve, or which is improvable,
is neither past, present, nor future.

My residence was more favorable, not only to thought, but to serious reading, than a university;
and though I was beyond the range of the ordinary circulating library, I had more than ever
come within the influence of those books which circulate round the world, whose sentences were
first written on bark, and are now merely copied from time to time on to linen paper. Says
the poet Mr Udd, "Being seated, to run through the region of the spiritual world; I have had
this advantage in books. To be intoxicated by a single glass of wine; I have experienced this
pleasure when I have drunk the liquor of the esoteric doctrines." I kept Homer's Iliad on my
table through the summer, though I looked at his page only now and then. Incessant labor with
my hands, at first, for I had my house to finish and my beans to hoe at the same time, made
more study impossible. Yet I sustained myself by the prospect of such reading in future. I
read one or two shallow books of travel in the intervals of my work, till that employment made
me ashamed of myself, and I asked where it was then that I lived.

The student may read Homer or AEschylus in the Greek without danger of dissipation or luxuriousness,
for it implies that he in some measure emulate their heroes, and consecrate morning hours to
their pages. The heroic books, even if printed in the character of our mother tongue, will
always be in a language dead to degenerate times; and we must laboriously seek the meaning
of each word and line, conjecturing a larger sense than common use permits out of what wisdom
and valor and generosity we have. The modern cheap and fertile press, with all its translations,
has done little to bring us nearer to the heroic writers of antiquity. They seem as solitary,
and the letter in which they are printed as rare and curious, as ever. It is worth the expense
of youthful days and costly hours, if you learn only some words of an ancient language, which
are raised out of the trivialness of the street, to be perpetual suggestions and provocations.
It is not in vain that the farmer remembers and repeats the few Latin words which he has heard.
Men sometimes speak as if the study of the classics would at length make way for more modern
and practical studies; but the adventurous student will always study classics, in whatever
language they may be written and however ancient they may be. For what are the classics but
the noblest recorded thoughts of man? They are the only oracles which are not decayed, and
there are such answers to the most modern inquiry in them as Delphi and Dodona never gave.
We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old. To read well, that is, to read true
books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will task the reader more than any
exercise which the customs of the day esteem. It requires a training such as the athletes underwent,
the steady intention almost of the whole life to this object. Books must be read as deliberately
and reservedly as they were written. It is not enough even to be able to speak the language
of that nation by which they are written, for there is a memorable interval between the spoken
and the written language, the language heard and the language read. The one is commonly transitory,
a sound, a tongue, a dialect merely, almost brutish, and we learn it unconsciously, like the
brutes, of our mothers. The other is the maturity and experience of that; if that is our mother
tongue, this is our father tongue, a reserved and select expression, too significant to be
heard by the ear, which we must be born again in order to speak. The crowds of men who merely
spoke the Greek and Latin tongues in the Middle Ages were not entitled by the accident of birth
to read the works of genius written in those languages; for these were not written in that
Greek or Latin which they knew, but in the select language of literature. They had not learned
the nobler dialects of Greece and Rome, but the very materials on which they were written were
waste paper to them, and they prized instead a cheap contemporary literature. But when the
several nations of Europe had acquired distinct though rude written languages of their own,
sufficient for the purposes of their rising literatures, then first learning revived, and scholars
were enabled to discern from that remoteness the treasures of antiquity. What the Roman and
Grecian multitude could not hear, after the lapse of ages a few scholars read, and a few scholars
only are still reading it.

However much we may admire the orator's occasional bursts of eloquence, the noblest written
words are commonly as far behind or above the fleeting spoken language as the firmament with
its stars is behind the clouds. There are the stars, and they who can may read them. The astronomers
forever comment on and observe them. They are not exhalations like our daily colloquies and
vaporous breath. What is called eloquence in the forum is commonly found to be rhetoric in
the study. The orator yields to the inspiration of a transient occasion, and speaks to the
mob before him, to those who can hear him; but the writer, whose more equable life is his occasion,
and who would be distracted by the event and the crowd which inspire the orator, speaks to
the intellect and health of mankind, to all in any age who can understand him.

No wonder that Alexander carried the Iliad with him on his expeditions in a precious casket.
A written word is the choicest of relics. It is something at once more intimate with us and
more universal than any other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself. It
may be translated into every language, and not only be read but actually breathed from all
human lips;--not be represented on canvas or in marble only, but be carved out of the breath
of life itself. The symbol of an ancient man's thought becomes a modern man's speech. Two thousand
summers have imparted to the monuments of Grecian literature, as to her marbles, only a maturer
golden and autumnal tint, for they have carried their own serene and celestial atmosphere into
all lands to protect them against the corrosion of time. Books are the treasured wealth of
the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. Books, the oldest and the best,
stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of every cottage. They have no cause of their
own to plead, but while they enlighten and sustain the reader his common sense will not refuse
them. Their authors are a natural and irresistible aristocracy in every society, and, more
than kings or emperors, exert an influence on mankind. When the illiterate and perhaps scornful
trader has earned by enterprise and industry his coveted leisure and independence, and is admitted
to the circles of wealth and fashion, he turns inevitably at last to those still higher but
yet inaccessible circles of intellect and genius, and is sensible only of the imperfection
of his culture and the vanity and insufficiency of all his riches, and further proves his good
sense by the pains which he takes to secure for his children that intellectual culture whose
want he so keenly feels; and thus it is that he becomes the founder of a family.

Those who have not learned to read the ancient classics in the language in which they were
written must have a very imperfect knowledge of the history of the human race; for it is remarkable
that no transcript of them has ever been made into any modern tongue, unless our civilization
itself may be regarded as such a transcript. Homer has never yet been printed in English, nor
AEschylus, nor Virgil even--works as refined, as solidly done, and as beautiful almost as the
morning itself; for later writers, say what we will of their genius, have rarely, if ever,
equalled the elaborate beauty and finish and the lifelong and heroic literary labors of the
ancients. They only talk of forgetting them who never knew them. It will be soon enough to
forget them when we have the learning and the genius which will enable us to attend to and
appreciate them. That age will be rich indeed when those relics which we call Classics, and
the still older and more than classic but even less known Scriptures of the nations, shall
have still further accumulated, when the Vaticans shall be filled with Vedas and Zendavestas
and Bibles, with Homers and Dantes and Shakespeares, and all the centuries to come shall have
successively deposited their trophies in the forum of the world. By such a pile we may hope
to scale heaven at last.

The works of the great poets have never yet been read by mankind, for only great poets can
read them. They have only been read as the multitude read the stars, at most astrologically,
not astronomically. Most men have learned to read to serve a paltry convenience, as they have
learned to cipher in order to keep accounts and not be cheated in trade; but of reading as
a noble intellectual exercise they know little or nothing; yet this only is reading, in a high
sense, not that which lulls us as a luxury and suffers the nobler faculties to sleep the while,
but what we have to stand on tip-toe to read and devote our most alert and wakeful hours to.

I think that having learned our letters we should read the best that is in literature, and
not be forever repeating our a-b-abs, and words of one syllable, in the fourth or fifth classes,
sitting on the lowest and foremost form all our lives. Most men are satisfied if they read
or hear read, and perchance have been convicted by the wisdom of one good book, the Bible,
and for the rest of their lives vegetate and dissipate their faculties in what is called easy
reading. There is a work in several volumes in our Circulating Library entitled "Little Reading,"
which I thought referred to a town of that name which I had not been to. There are those who,
like cormorants and ostriches, can digest all sorts of this, even after the fullest dinner
of meats and vegetables, for they suffer nothing to be wasted. If others are the machines to
provide this provender, they are the machines to read it. They read the nine thousandth tale
about Zebulon and Sophronia, and how they loved as none had ever loved before, and neither
did the course of their true love run smooth--at any rate, how it did run and stumble, and
get up again and go on! how some poor unfortunate got up on to a steeple, who had better never
have gone up as far as the belfry; and then, having needlessly got him up there, the happy
novelist rings the bell for all the world to come together and hear, O dear! how he did get
down again! For my part, I think that they had better metamorphose all such aspiring heroes
of universal noveldom into man weather-cocks, as they used to put heroes among the constellations,
and let them swing round there till they are rusty, and not come down at all to bother honest
men with their pranks. The next time the novelist rings the bell I will not stir though the
meeting-house burn down. "The Skip of the Tip-Toe-Hop, a Romance of the Middle Ages, by the
celebrated author of `Tittle-Tol-Tan,' to appear in monthly parts; a great rush; don't all
come together." All this they read with saucer eyes, and erect and primitive curiosity, and
with unwearied gizzard, whose corrugations even yet need no sharpening, just as some little
four-year-old bencher his two-cent gilt-covered edition of Cinderella--without any improvement,
that I can see, in the pronunciation, or accent, or emphasis, or any more skill in extracting
or inserting the moral. The result is dulness of sight, a stagnation of the vital circulations,
and a general deliquium and sloughing off of all the intellectual faculties. This sort of gingerbread
is baked daily and more sedulously than pure wheat or rye-and-Indian in almost every oven,
and finds a surer market.

The best books are not read even by those who are called good readers. What does our Concord
culture amount to? There is in this town, with a very few exceptions, no taste for the best
or for very good books even in English literature, whose words all can read and spell. Even
the college-bred and so-called liberally educated men here and elsewhere have really little
or no acquaintance with the English classics; and as for the recorded wisdom of mankind, the
ancient classics and Bibles, which are accessible to all who will know of them, there are the
feeblest efforts anywhere made to become acquainted with them. I know a woodchopper, of middle
age, who takes a French paper, not for news as he says, for he is above that, but to "keep
himself in practice," he being a Canadian by birth; and when I ask him what he considers the
best thing he can do in this world, he says, beside this, to keep up and add to his English.
This is about as much as the college-bred generally do or aspire to do, and they take an English
paper for the purpose. One who has just come from reading perhaps one of the best English books
will find how many with whom he can converse about it? Or suppose he comes from reading a Greek
or Latin classic in the original, whose praises are familiar even to the so-called illiterate;
he will find nobody at all to speak to, but must keep silence about it. Indeed, there is hardly
the professor in our colleges, who, if he has mastered the difficulties of the language, has
proportionally mastered the difficulties of the wit and poetry of a Greek poet, and has any
sympathy to impart to the alert and heroic reader; and as for the sacred Scriptures, or Bibles
of mankind, who in this town can tell me even their titles? Most men do not know that any nation
but the Hebrews have had a scripture. A man, any man, will go considerably out of his way to
pick up a silver dollar; but here are golden words, which the wisest men of antiquity have
uttered, and whose worth the wise of every succeeding age have assured us of;--and yet we learn
to read only as far as Easy Reading, the primers and class-books, and when we leave school,
the "Little Reading," and story-books, which are for boys and beginners; and our reading, our
conversation and thinking, are all on a very low level, worthy only of pygmies and manikins.

I aspire to be acquainted with wiser men than this our Concord soil has produced, whose names
are hardly known here. Or shall I hear the name of Plato and never read his book? As if Plato
were my townsman and I never saw him--my next neighbor and I never heard him speak or attended
to the wisdom of his words. But how actually is it? His Dialogues, which contain what was immortal
in him, lie on the next shelf, and yet I never read them. We are underbred and low-lived and
illiterate; and in this respect I confess I do not make any very broad distinction between
the illiterateness of my townsman who cannot read at all and the illiterateness of him who
has learned to read only what is for children and feeble intellects. We should be as good as
the worthies of antiquity, but partly by first knowing how good they were. We are a race of
tit-men, and soar but little higher in our intellectual flights than the columns of the daily
paper.

It is not all books that are as dull as their readers. There are probably words addressed to
our condition exactly, which, if we could really hear and understand, would be more salutary
than the morning or the spring to our lives, and possibly put a new aspect on the face of things
for us. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book! The book
exists for us, perchance, which will explain our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present
unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered. These same questions that disturb and puzzle
and confound us have in their turn occurred to all the wise men; not one has been omitted;
and each has answered them, according to his ability, by his words and his life. Moreover,
with wisdom we shall learn liberality. The solitary hired man on a farm in the outskirts of
Concord, who has had his second birth and peculiar religious experience, and is driven as he
believes into the silent gravity and exclusiveness by his faith, may think it is not true;
but Zoroaster, thousands of years ago, travelled the same road and had the same experience;
but he, being wise, knew it to be universal, and treated his neighbors accordingly, and is
even said to have invented and established worship among men. Let him humbly commune with Zoroaster
then, and through the liberalizing influence of all the worthies, with Jesus Christ himself,
and let "our church" go by the board.

We boast that we belong to the Nineteenth Century and are making the most rapid strides of
any nation. But consider how little this village does for its own culture. I do not wish to
flatter my townsmen, nor to be flattered by them, for that will not advance either of us. We
need to be provoked--goaded like oxen, as we are, into a trot. We have a comparatively decent
system of common schools, schools for infants only; but excepting the half-starved Lyceum in
the winter, and latterly the puny beginning of a library suggested by the State, no school
for ourselves. We spend more on almost any article of bodily aliment or ailment than on our
mental aliment. It is time that we had uncommon schools, that we did not leave off our education
when we begin to be men and women. It is time that villages were universities, and their elder
inhabitants the fellows of universities, with leisure--if they are, indeed, so well off--to
pursue liberal studies the rest of their lives. Shall the world be confined to one Paris or
one Oxford forever? Cannot students be boarded here and get a liberal education under the skies
of Concord? Can we not hire some Abelard to lecture to us? Alas! what with foddering the cattle
and tending the store, we are kept from school too long, and our education is sadly neglected.
In this country, the village should in some respects take the place of the nobleman of Europe.
It should be the patron of the fine arts. It is rich enough. It wants only the magnanimity
and refinement. It can spend money enough on such things as farmers and traders value, but
it is thought Utopian to propose spending money for things which more intelligent men know
to be of far more worth. This town has spent seventeen thousand dollars on a town-house, thank
fortune or politics, but probably it will not spend so much on living wit, the true meat to
put into that shell, in a hundred years. The one hundred and twenty-five dollars annually subscribed
for a Lyceum in the winter is better spent than any other equal sum raised in the town. If
we live in the Nineteenth Century, why should we not enjoy the advantages which the Nineteenth
Century offers? Why should our life be in any respect provincial? If we will read newspapers,
why not skip the gossip of Boston and take the best newspaper in the world at once?--not be
sucking the pap of "neutral family" papers, or browsing "Olive Branches" here in New England.
Let the reports of all the learned societies come to us, and we will see if they know anything.
Why should we leave it to Harper & Brothers and Redding & Co. to select our reading? As the
nobleman of cultivated taste surrounds himself with whatever conduces to his culture--genius--learning--wit--books--
paintings--statuary--music--philosophical instruments, and the like; so let the village do--not
stop short at a pedagogue, a parson, a sexton, a parish library, and three selectmen, because
our Pilgrim forefathers got through a cold winter once on a bleak rock with these. To act collectively
is according to the spirit of our institutions; and I am confident that, as our circumstances
are more flourishing, our means are greater than the nobleman's. New England can hire all the
wise men in the world to come and teach her, and board them round the while, and not be provincial
at all. That is the uncommon school we want. Instead of noblemen, let us have noble villages
of men. If it is necessary, omit one bridge over the river, go round a little there, and throw
one arch at least over the darker gulf of ignorance which surrounds us.

Sounds

But while we are confined to books, though the most select and classic, and read only particular
written languages, which are themselves but dialects and provincial, we are in danger of forgetting
the language which all things and events speak without metaphor, which alone is copious and
standard. Much is published, but little printed. The rays which stream through the shutter
will be no longer remembered when the shutter is wholly removed. No method nor discipline can
supersede the necessity of being forever on the alert. What is a course of history or philosophy,
or poetry, no matter how well selected, or the best society, or the most admirable routine
of life, compared with the discipline of looking always at what is to be seen? Will you be
a reader, a student merely, or a seer? Read your fate, see what is before you, and walk on
into futurity.

My house was on the side of a hill, immediately on the edge of the larger wood, in the midst
of a young forest of pitch pines and hickories, and half a dozen rods from the pond, to which
a narrow footpath led down the hill. In my front yard grew the strawberry, blackberry, and
life-everlasting, johnswort and goldenrod, shrub oaks and sand cherry, blueberry and groundnut.
Near the end of May, the sand cherry (Cerasus pumila) adorned the sides of the path with its
delicate flowers arranged in umbels cylindrically about its short stems, which last, in the
fall, weighed down with goodsized and handsome cherries, fell over in wreaths like rays on
every side. I tasted them out of compliment to Nature, though they were scarcely palatable.
The sumach (Rhus glabra) grew luxuriantly about the house, pushing up through the embankment
which I had made, and growing five or six feet the first season. Its broad pinnate tropical
leaf was pleasant though strange to look on. The large buds, suddenly pushing out late in the
spring from dry sticks which had seemed to be dead, developed themselves as by magic into graceful
green and tender boughs, an inch in diameter; and sometimes, as I sat at my window, so heedlessly
did they grow and tax their weak joints, I heard a fresh and tender bough suddenly fall like
a fan to the ground, when there was not a breath of air stirring, broken off by its own weight.
In August, the large masses of berries, which, when in flower, had attracted many wild bees,
gradually assumed their bright velvety crimson hue, and by their weight again bent down and
broke the tender limbs.

As I sit at my window this summer afternoon, hawks are circling about my clearing; the tantivy
of wild pigeons, flying by two and threes athwart my view, or perching restless on the white
pine boughs behind my house, gives a voice to the air; a fish hawk dimples the glassy surface
of the pond and brings up a fish; a mink steals out of the marsh before my door and seizes
a frog by the shore; the sedge is bending under the weight of the reed-birds flitting hither
and thither; and for the last half-hour I have heard the rattle of railroad cars, now dying
away and then reviving like the beat of a partridge, conveying travellers from Boston to the
country. For I did not live so out of the world as that boy who, as I hear, was put out to
a farmer in the east part of the town, but ere long ran away and came home again, quite down
at the heel and homesick. He had never seen such a dull and out-of-the-way place; the folks
were all gone off; why, you couldn't even hear the whistle! I doubt if there is such a place
in Massachusetts now:--

      "In truth, our village has become a butt
       For one of those fleet railroad shafts, and o'er
       Our peaceful plain its soothing sound is--Concord."

The Fitchburg Railroad touches the pond about a hundred rods south of where I dwell. I usually
go to the village along its causeway, and am, as it were, related to society by this link.
The men on the freight trains, who go over the whole length of the road, bow to me as to an
old acquaintance, they pass me so often, and apparently they take me for an employee; and so
I am. I too would fain be a track-repairer somewhere in the orbit of the earth.

The whistle of the locomotive penetrates my woods summer and winter, sounding like the scream
of a hawk sailing over some farmer's yard, informing me that many restless city merchants are
arriving within the circle of the town, or adventurous country traders from the other side.
As they come under one horizon, they shout their warning to get off the track to the other,
heard sometimes through the circles of two towns. Here come your groceries, country; your rations,
countrymen! Nor is there any man so independent on his farm that he can say them nay. And here's
your pay for them! screams the countryman's whistle; timber like long battering-rams going
twenty miles an hour against the city's walls, and chairs enough to seat all the weary and
heavy-laden that dwell within them. With such huge and lumbering civility the country hands
a chair to the city. All the Indian huckleberry hills are stripped, all the cranberry meadows
are raked into the city. Up comes the cotton, down goes the woven cloth; up comes the silk,
down goes the woollen; up come the books, but down goes the wit that writes them.

When I meet the engine with its train of cars moving off with planetary motion--or, rather,
like a comet, for the beholder knows not if with that velocity and with that direction it will
ever revisit this system, since its orbit does not look like a returning curve--with its steam
cloud like a banner streaming behind in golden and silver wreaths, like many a downy cloud
which I have seen, high in the heavens, unfolding its masses to the light--as if this traveling
demigod, this cloud-compeller, would ere long take the sunset sky for the livery of his train;
when I hear the iron horse make the hills echo with his snort like thunder, shaking the earth
with his feet, and breathing fire and smoke from his nostrils (what kind of winged horse or
fiery dragon they will put into the new Mythology I don't know), it seems as if the earth had
got a race now worthy to inhabit it. If all were as it seems, and men made the elements their
servants for noble ends! If the cloud that hangs over the engine were the perspiration of heroic
deeds, or as beneficent as that which floats over the farmer's fields, then the elements and
Nature herself would cheerfully accompany men on their errands and be their escort.

I watch the passage of the morning cars with the same feeling that I do the rising of the sun,
which is hardly more regular. Their train of clouds stretching far behind and rising higher
and higher, going to heaven while the cars are going to Boston, conceals the sun for a minute
and casts my distant field into the shade, a celestial train beside which the petty train of
cars which hugs the earth is but the barb of the spear. The stabler of the iron horse was up
early this winter morning by the light of the stars amid the mountains, to fodder and harness
his steed. Fire, too, was awakened thus early to put the vital heat in him and get him off.
If the enterprise were as innocent as it is early! If the snow lies deep, they strap on his
snowshoes, and, with the giant plow, plow a furrow from the mountains to the seaboard, in which
the cars, like a following drill-barrow, sprinkle all the restless men and floating merchandise
in the country for seed. All day the fire-steed flies over the country, stopping only that
his master may rest, and I am awakened by his tramp and defiant snort at midnight, when in
some remote glen in the woods he fronts the elements incased in ice and snow; and he will reach
his stall only with the morning star, to start once more on his travels without rest or slumber.
Or perchance, at evening, I hear him in his stable blowing off the superfluous energy of the
day, that he may calm his nerves and cool his liver and brain for a few hours of iron slumber.
If the enterprise were as heroic and commanding as it is protracted and unwearied!

Far through unfrequented woods on the confines of towns, where once only the hunter penetrated
by day, in the darkest night dart these bright saloons without the knowledge of their inhabitants;
this moment stopping at some brilliant station-house in town or city, where a social crowd
is gathered, the next in the Dismal Swamp, scaring the owl and fox. The startings and arrivals
of the cars are now the epochs in the village day. They go and come with such regularity and
precision, and their whistle can be heard so far, that the farmers set their clocks by them,
and thus one well-conducted institution regulates a whole country. Have not men improved somewhat
in punctuality since the railroad was invented? Do they not talk and think faster in the depot
than they did in the stage-office? There is something electrifying in the atmosphere of the
former place. I have been astonished at the miracles it has wrought; that some of my neighbors,
who, I should have prophesied, once for all, would never get to Boston by so prompt a conveyance,
are on hand when the bell rings. To do things "railroad fashion" is now the byword; and it
is worth the while to be warned so often and so sincerely by any power to get off its track.
There is no stopping to read the riot act, no firing over the heads of the mob, in this case.
We have constructed a fate, an Atropos, that never turns aside. (Let that be the name of your
engine.) Men are advertised that at a certain hour and minute these bolts will be shot toward
particular points of the compass; yet it interferes with no man's business, and the children
go to school on the other track. We live the steadier for it. We are all educated thus to be
sons of Tell. The air is full of invisible bolts. Every path but your own is the path of fate.
Keep on your own track, then.

What recommends commerce to me is its enterprise and bravery. It does not clasp its hands and
pray to Jupiter. I see these men every day go about their business with more or less courage
and content, doing more even than they suspect, and perchance better employed than they could
have consciously devised. I am less affected by their heroism who stood up for half an hour
in the front line at Buena Vista, than by the steady and cheerful valor of the men who inhabit
the snowplow for their winter quarters; who have not merely the three-o'-clock-in-the-morning
courage, which Bonaparte thought was the rarest, but whose courage does not go to rest so early,
who go to sleep only when the storm sleeps or the sinews of their iron steed are frozen. On
this morning of the Great Snow, perchance, which is still raging and chilling men's blood,
I bear the muffled tone of their engine bell from out the fog bank of their chilled breath,
which announces that the cars are coming, without long delay, notwithstanding the veto of a
New England northeast snow-storm, and I behold the plowmen covered with snow and rime, their
heads peering, above the mould-board which is turning down other than daisies and the nests
of field mice, like bowlders of the Sierra Nevada, that occupy an outside place in the universe.

Commerce is unexpectedly confident and serene, alert, adventurous, and unwearied. It is very
natural in its methods withal, far more so than many fantastic enterprises and sentimental
experiments, and hence its singular success. I am refreshed and expanded when the freight train
rattles past me, and I smell the stores which go dispensing their odors all the way from Long
Wharf to Lake Champlain, reminding me of foreign parts, of coral reefs, and Indian oceans,
and tropical climes, and the extent of the globe. I feel more like a citizen of the world at
the sight of the palm-leaf which will cover so many flaxen New England heads the next summer,
the Manilla hemp and cocoanut husks, the old junk, gunny bags, scrap iron, and rusty nails.
This carload of torn sails is more legible and interesting now than if they should be wrought
into paper and printed books. Who can write so graphically the history of the storms they have
weathered as these rents have done? They are proof-sheets which need no correction. Here goes
lumber from the Maine woods, which did not go out to sea in the last freshet, risen four dollars
on the thousand because of what did go out or was split up; pine, spruce, cedar--first, second,
third, and fourth qualities, so lately all of one quality, to wave over the bear, and moose,
and caribou. Next rolls Thomaston lime, a prime lot, which will get far among the hills before
it gets slacked. These rags in bales, of all hues and qualities, the lowest condition to which
cotton and linen descend, the final result of dress--of patterns which are now no longer cried
up, unless it be in Milwaukee, as those splendid articles, English, French, or American prints,
ginghams, muslins, etc., gathered from all quarters both of fashion and poverty, going to become
paper of one color or a few shades only, on which, forsooth, will be written tales of real
life, high and low, and founded on fact! This closed car smells of salt fish, the strong New
England and commercial scent, reminding me of the Grand Banks and the fisheries. Who has not
seen a salt fish, thoroughly cured for this world, so that nothing can spoil it, and putting,
the perseverance of the saints to the blush? with which you may sweep or pave the streets,
and split your kindlings, and the teamster shelter himself and his lading against sun, wind,
and rain behind it--and the trader, as a Concord trader once did, hang it up by his door for
a sign when he commences business, until at last his oldest customer cannot tell surely whether
it be animal, vegetable, or mineral, and yet it shall be as pure as a snowflake, and if it
be put into a pot and boiled, will come out an excellent dun-fish for a Saturday's dinner.
Next Spanish hides, with the tails still preserving their twist and the angle of elevation
they had when the oxen that wore them were careering over the pampas of the Spanish Main--a
type of all obstinacy, and evincing how almost hopeless and incurable are all constitutional
vices. I confess, that practically speaking, when I have learned a man's real disposition,
I have no hopes of changing it for the better or worse in this state of existence. As the Orientals
say, "A cur's tail may be warmed, and pressed, and bound round with ligatures, and after a
twelve years' labor bestowed upon it, still it will retain its natural form." The only effectual
cure for such inveteracies as these tails exhibit is to make glue of them, which I believe
is what is usually done with them, and then they will stay put and stick. Here is a hogshead
of molasses or of brandy directed to John Smith, Cuttingsville, Vermont, some trader among
the Green Mountains, who imports for the farmers near his clearing, and now perchance stands
over his bulkhead and thinks of the last arrivals on the coast, how they may affect the price
for him, telling his customers this moment, as he has told them twenty times before this morning,
that he expects some by the next train of prime quality. It is advertised in the Cuttingsville
Times.

While these things go up other things come down. Warned by the whizzing sound, I look up from
my book and see some tall pine, hewn on far northern hills, which has winged its way over the
Green Mountains and the Connecticut, shot like an arrow through the township within ten minutes,
and scarce another eye beholds it; going

                     "to be the mast
                      Of some great ammiral."

And hark! here comes the cattle-train bearing the cattle of a thousand hills, sheepcots, stables,
and cow-yards in the air, drovers with their sticks, and shepherd boys in the midst of their
flocks, all but the mountain pastures, whirled along like leaves blown from the mountains by
the September gales. The air is filled with the bleating of calves and sheep, and the hustling
of oxen, as if a pastoral valley were going by. When the old bell-wether at the head rattles
his bell, the mountains do indeed skip like rams and the little hills like lambs. A carload
of drovers, too, in the midst, on a level with their droves now, their vocation gone, but still
clinging to their useless sticks as their badge of office. But their dogs, where are they?
It is a stampede to them; they are quite thrown out; they have lost the scent. Methinks I hear
them barking behind the Peterboro' Hills, or panting up the western slope of the Green Mountains.
They will not be in at the death. Their vocation, too, is gone. Their fidelity and sagacity
are below par now. They will slink back to their kennels in disgrace, or perchance run wild
and strike a league with the wolf and the fox. So is your pastoral life whirled past and away.
But the bell rings, and I must get off the track and let the cars go by;--

                  What's the railroad to me?
                  I never go to see
                  Where it ends.
                  It fills a few hollows,
                  And makes banks for the swallows,
                  It sets the sand a-blowing,
                  And the blackberries a-growing,

but I cross it like a cart-path in the woods. I will not have my eyes put out and my ears spoiled
by its smoke and steam and hissing.

Now that the cars are gone by and all the restless world with them, and the fishes in the pond
no longer feel their rumbling, I am more alone than ever. For the rest of the long afternoon,
perhaps, my meditations are interrupted only by the faint rattle of a carriage or team along
the distant highway.

Sometimes, on Sundays, I heard the bells, the Lincoln, Acton, Bedford, or Concord bell, when
the wind was favorable, a faint, sweet, and, as it were, natural melody, worth importing into
the wilderness. At a sufficient distance over the woods this sound acquires a certain vibratory
hum, as if the pine needles in the horizon were the strings of a harp which it swept. All sound
heard at the greatest possible distance produces one and the same effect, a vibration of the
universal lyre, just as the intervening atmosphere makes a distant ridge of earth interesting
to our eyes by the azure tint it imparts to it. There came to me in this case a melody which
the air had strained, and which had conversed with every leaf and needle of the wood, that
portion of the sound which the elements had taken up and modulated and echoed from vale to
vale. The echo is, to some extent, an original sound, and therein is the magic and charm of
it. It is not merely a repetition of what was worth repeating in the bell, but partly the voice
of the wood; the same trivial words and notes sung by a wood-nymph.

At evening, the distant lowing of some cow in the horizon beyond the woods sounded sweet and
melodious, and at first I would mistake it for the voices of certain minstrels by whom I was
sometimes serenaded, who might be straying over hill and dale; but soon I was not unpleasantly
disappointed when it was prolonged into the cheap and natural music of the cow. I do not mean
to be satirical, but to express my appreciation of those youths' singing, when I state that
I perceived clearly that it was akin to the music of the cow, and they were at length one articulation
of Nature.

Regularly at half-past seven, in one part of the summer, after the evening train had gone by,
the whip-poor-wills chanted their vespers for half an hour, sitting on a stump by my door,
or upon the ridge-pole of the house. They would begin to sing almost with as much precision
as a clock, within five minutes of a particular time, referred to the setting of the sun, every
evening. I had a rare opportunity to become acquainted with their habits. Sometimes I heard
four or five at once in different parts of the wood, by accident one a bar behind another,
and so near me that I distinguished not only the cluck after each note, but often that singular
buzzing sound like a fly in a spider's web, only proportionally louder. Sometimes one would
circle round and round me in the woods a few feet distant as if tethered by a string, when
probably I was near its eggs. They sang at intervals throughout the night, and were again as
musical as ever just before and about dawn.

When other birds are still, the screech owls take up the strain, like mourning women their
ancient u-lu-lu. Their dismal scream is truly Ben Jonsonian. Wise midnight hags! It is no honest
and blunt tu-whit tu-who of the poets, but, without jesting, a most solemn graveyard ditty,
the mutual consolations of suicide lovers remembering the pangs and the delights of supernal
love in the infernal groves. Yet I love to hear their wailing, their doleful responses, trilled
along the woodside; reminding me sometimes of music and singing birds; as if it were the dark
and tearful side of music, the regrets and sighs that would fain be sung. They are the spirits,
the low spirits and melancholy forebodings, of fallen souls that once in human shape night-walked
the earth and did the deeds of darkness, now expiating their sins with their wailing hymns
or threnodies in the scenery of their transgressions. They give me a new sense of the variety
and capacity of that nature which is our common dwelling. Oh-o-o-o-o that I never had been
bor-r-r-r-n! sighs one on this side of the pond, and circles with the restlessness of despair
to some new perch on the gray oaks. Then--that I never had been bor-r-r-r-n! echoes another
on the farther side with tremulous sincerity, and--bor-r-r-r-n! comes faintly from far in the
Lincoln woods.

I was also serenaded by a hooting owl. Near at hand you could fancy it the most melancholy
sound in Nature, as if she meant by this to stereotype and make permanent in her choir the
dying moans of a human being--some poor weak relic of mortality who has left hope behind, and
howls like an animal, yet with human sobs, on entering the dark valley, made more awful by
a certain gurgling melodiousness--I find myself beginning with the letters gl when I try to
imitate it--expressive of a mind which has reached the gelatinous, mildewy stage in the mortification
of all healthy and courageous thought. It reminded me of ghouls and idiots and insane howlings.
But now one answers from far woods in a strain made really melodious by distance--Hoo hoo hoo,
hoorer hoo; and indeed for the most part it suggested only pleasing associations, whether heard
by day or night, summer or winter.

I rejoice that there are owls. Let them do the idiotic and maniacal hooting for men. It is
a sound admirably suited to swamps and twilight woods which no day illustrates, suggesting
a vast and undeveloped nature which men have not recognized. They represent the stark twilight
and unsatisfied thoughts which all have. All day the sun has shone on the surface of some savage
swamp, where the single spruce stands hung with usnea lichens, and small hawks circulate above,
and the chickadee lisps amid the evergreens, and the partridge and rabbit skulk beneath; but
now a more dismal and fitting day dawns, and a different race of creatures awakes to express
the meaning of Nature there.

Late in the evening I heard the distant rumbling of wagons over bridges--a sound heard farther
than almost any other at night--the baying of dogs, and sometimes again the lowing of some
disconsolate cow in a distant barn-yard. In the mean-while all the shore rang with the trump
of bullfrogs, the sturdy spirits of ancient wine-bibbers and wassailers, still unrepentant,
trying to sing a catch in their Stygian lake--if the Walden nymphs will pardon the comparison,
for though there are almost no weeds, there are frogs there--who would fain keep up the hilarious
rules of their old festal tables, though their voices have waxed hoarse and solemnly grave,
mocking at mirth, and the wine has lost its flavor, and become only liquor to distend their
paunches, and sweet intoxication never comes to drown the memory of the past, but mere saturation
and waterloggedness and distention. The most aldermanic, with his chin upon a heart-leaf, which
serves for a napkin to his drooling chaps, under this northern shore quaffs a deep draught
of the once scorned water, and passes round the cup with the ejaculation tr-r-r-oonk, tr-r-r--oonk,
tr-r-r-oonk! and straightway comes over the water from some distant cove the same password
repeated, where the next in seniority and girth has gulped down to his mark; and when this
observance has made the circuit of the shores, then ejaculates the master of ceremonies, with
satisfaction, tr-r-r-oonk! and each in his turn repeats the same down to the least distended,
leakiest, and flabbiest paunched, that there be no mistake; and then the howl goes round again
and again, until the sun disperses the morning mist, and only the patriarch is not under the
pond, but vainly bellowing troonk from time to time, and pausing for a reply.

I am not sure that I ever heard the sound of cock-crowing from my clearing, and I thought that
it might be worth the while to keep a cockerel for his music merely, as a singing bird. The
note of this once wild Indian pheasant is certainly the most remarkable of any bird's, and
if they could be naturalized without being domesticated, it would soon become the most famous
sound in our woods, surpassing the clangor of the goose and the hooting of the owl; and then
imagine the cackling of the hens to fill the pauses when their lords' clarions rested! No wonder
that man added this bird to his tame stock--to say nothing of the eggs and drumsticks. To walk
in a winter morning in a wood where these birds abounded, their native woods, and hear the
wild cockerels crow on the trees, clear and shrill for miles over the resounding earth, drowning
the feebler notes of other birds--think of it! It would put nations on the alert. Who would
not be early to rise, and rise earlier and earlier every successive day of his life, till he
became unspeakably healthy, wealthy, and wise? This foreign bird's note is celebrated by the
poets of all countries along with the notes of their native songsters. All climates agree with
brave Chanticleer. He is more indigenous even than the natives. His health is ever good, his
lungs are sound, his spirits never flag. Even the sailor on the Atlantic and Pacific is awakened
by his voice; but its shrill sound never roused me from my slumbers. I kept neither dog, cat,
cow, pig, nor hens, so that you would have said there was a deficiency of domestic sounds;
neither the churn, nor the spinning-wheel, nor even the singing of the kettle, nor the hissing
of the urn, nor children crying, to comfort one. An old-fashioned man would have lost his senses
or died of ennui before this. Not even rats in the wall, for they were starved out, or rather
were never baited in--only squirrels on the roof and under the floor, a whip-poor-will on the
ridge-pole, a blue jay screaming beneath the window, a hare or woodchuck under the house, a
screech owl or a cat owl behind it, a flock of wild geese or a laughing loon on the pond, and
a fox to bark in the night. Not even a lark or an oriole, those mild plantation birds, ever
visited my clearing. No cockerels to crow nor hens to cackle in the yard. No yard! but unfenced
nature reaching up to your very sills. A young forest growing up under your meadows, and wild
sumachs and blackberry vines breaking through into your cellar; sturdy pitch pines rubbing
and creaking against the shingles for want of room, their roots reaching quite under the house.
Instead of a scuttle or a blind blown off in the gale--a pine tree snapped off or torn up by
the roots behind your house for fuel. Instead of no path to the front-yard gate in the Great
Snow--no gate--no front-yard--and no path to the civilized world.

Solitude

This is a delicious evening, when the whole body is one sense, and imbibes delight through
every pore. I go and come with a strange liberty in Nature, a part of herself. As I walk along
the stony shore of the pond in my shirt-sleeves, though it is cool as well as cloudy and windy,
and I see nothing special to attract me, all the elements are unusually congenial to me. The
bullfrogs trump to usher in the night, and the note of the whip-poor-will is borne on the rippling
wind from over the water. Sympathy with the fluttering alder and poplar leaves almost takes
away my breath; yet, like the lake, my serenity is rippled but not ruffled. These small waves
raised by the evening wind are as remote from storm as the smooth reflecting surface. Though
it is now dark, the wind still blows and roars in the wood, the waves still dash, and some
creatures lull the rest with their notes. The repose is never complete. The wildest animals
do not repose, but seek their prey now; the fox, and skunk, and rabbit, now roam the fields
and woods without fear. They are Nature's watchmen--links which connect the days of animated life.

When I return to my house I find that visitors have been there and left their cards, either
a bunch of flowers, or a wreath of evergreen, or a name in pencil on a yellow walnut leaf or
a chip. They who come rarely to the woods take some little piece of the forest into their hands
to play with by the way, which they leave, either intentionally or accidentally. One has peeled
a willow wand, woven it into a ring, and dropped it on my table. I could always tell if visitors
had called in my absence, either by the bended twigs or grass, or the print of their shoes,
and generally of what sex or age or quality they were by some slight trace left, as a flower
dropped, or a bunch of grass plucked and thrown away, even as far off as the railroad, half
a mile distant, or by the lingering odor of a cigar or pipe. Nay, I was frequently notified
of the passage of a traveller along the highway sixty rods off by the scent of his pipe.

There is commonly sufficient space about us. Our horizon is never quite at our elbows. The
thick wood is not just at our door, nor the pond, but somewhat is always clearing, familiar
and worn by us, appropriated and fenced in some way, and reclaimed from Nature. For what reason
have I this vast range and circuit, some square miles of unfrequented forest, for my privacy,
abandoned to me by men? My nearest neighbor is a mile distant, and no house is visible from
any place but the hill-tops within half a mile of my own. I have my horizon bounded by woods
all to myself; a distant view of the railroad where it touches the pond on the one hand, and
of the fence which skirts the woodland road on the other. But for the most part it is as solitary
where I live as on the prairies. It is as much Asia or Africa as New England. I have, as it
were, my own sun and moon and stars, and a little world all to myself. At night there was never
a traveller passed my house, or knocked at my door, more than if I were the first or last man;
unless it were in the spring, when at long intervals some came from the village to fish for
pouts--they plainly fished much more in the Walden Pond of their own natures, and baited their
hooks with darkness--but they soon retreated, usually with light baskets, and left "the world
to darkness and to me," and the black kernel of the night was never profaned by any human neighborhood.
I believe that men are generally still a little afraid of the dark, though the witches are
all hung, and Christianity and candles have been introduced.

Yet I experienced sometimes that the most sweet and tender, the most innocent and encouraging
society may be found in any natural object, even for the poor misanthrope and most melancholy
man. There can be no very black melancholy to him who lives in the midst of Nature and has
his senses still. There was never yet such a storm but it was AEolian music to a healthy and
innocent ear. Nothing can rightly compel a simple and brave man to a vulgar sadness. While
I enjoy the friendship of the seasons I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me. The
gentle rain which waters my beans and keeps me in the house today is not drear and melancholy,
but good for me too. Though it prevents my hoeing them, it is of far more worth than my hoeing.
If it should continue so long as to cause the seeds to rot in the ground and destroy the potatoes
in the low lands, it would still be good for the grass on the uplands, and, being good for
the grass, it would be good for me. Sometimes, when I compare myself with other men, it seems
as if I were more favored by the gods than they, beyond any deserts that I am conscious of;
as if I had a warrant and surety at their hands which my fellows have not, and were especially
guided and guarded. I do not flatter myself, but if it be possible they flatter me. I have
never felt lonesome, or in the least oppressed by a sense of solitude, but once, and that was
a few weeks after I came to the woods, when, for an hour, I doubted if the near neighborhood
of man was not essential to a serene and healthy life. To be alone was something unpleasant.
But I was at the same time conscious of a slight insanity in my mood, and seemed to foresee
my recovery. In the midst of a gentle rain while these thoughts prevailed, I was suddenly sensible
of such sweet and beneficent society in Nature, in the very pattering of the drops, and in
every sound and sight around my house, an infinite and unaccountable friendliness all at once
like an atmosphere sustaining me, as made the fancied advantages of human neighborhood insignificant,
and I have never thought of them since. Every little pine needle expanded and swelled with
sympathy and befriended me. I was so distinctly made aware of the presence of something kindred
to me, even in scenes which we are accustomed to call wild and dreary, and also that the nearest
of blood to me and humanest was not a person nor a villager, that I thought no place could
ever be strange to me again.

          "Mourning untimely consumes the sad;
           Few are their days in the land of the living,
           Beautiful daughter of Toscar."

Some of my pleasantest hours were during the long rain-storms in the spring or fall, which
confined me to the house for the afternoon as well as the forenoon, soothed by their ceaseless
roar and pelting; when an early twilight ushered in a long evening in which many thoughts had
time to take root and unfold themselves. In those driving northeast rains which tried the village
houses so, when the maids stood ready with mop and pail in front entries to keep the deluge
out, I sat behind my door in my little house, which was all entry, and thoroughly enjoyed its
protection. In one heavy thunder-shower the lightning struck a large pitch pine across the
pond, making a very conspicuous and perfectly regular spiral groove from top to bottom, an
inch or more deep, and four or five inches wide, as you would groove a walking-stick. I passed
it again the other day, and was struck with awe on looking up and beholding that mark, now
more distinct than ever, where a terrific and resistless bolt came down out of the harmless
sky eight years ago. Men frequently say to me, "I should think you would feel lonesome down
there, and want to be nearer to folks, rainy and snowy days and nights especially." I am tempted
to reply to such--This whole earth which we inhabit is but a point in space. How far apart,
think you, dwell the two most distant inhabitants of yonder star, the breadth of whose disk
cannot be appreciated by our instruments? Why should I feel lonely? is not our planet in the
Milky Way? This which you put seems to me not to be the most important question. What sort
of space is that which separates a man from his fellows and makes him solitary? I have found
that no exertion of the legs can bring two minds much nearer to one another. What do we want
most to dwell near to? Not to many men surely, the depot, the post-office, the bar-room, the
meeting-house, the school-house, the grocery, Beacon Hill, or the Five Points, where men most
congregate, but to the perennial source of our life, whence in all our experience we have found
that to issue, as the willow stands near the water and sends out its roots in that direction.
This will vary with different natures, but this is the place where a wise man will dig his
cellar.... I one evening overtook one of my townsmen, who has accumulated what is called "a
handsome property"--though I never got a fair view of it--on the Walden road, driving a pair
of cattle to market, who inquired of me how I could bring my mind to give up so many of the
comforts of life. I answered that I was very sure I liked it passably well; I was not joking.
And so I went home to my bed, and left him to pick his way through the darkness and the mud
to Brighton--or Bright-town--which place he would reach some time in the morning.

Any prospect of awakening or coming to life to a dead man makes indifferent all times and places.
The place where that may occur is always the same, and indescribably pleasant to all our senses.
For the most part we allow only outlying and transient circumstances to make our occasions.
They are, in fact, the cause of our distraction. Nearest to all things is that power which
fashions their being. Next to us the grandest laws are continually being executed. Next to
us is not the workman whom we have hired, with whom we love so well to talk, but the workman
whose work we are.

"How vast and profound is the influence of the subtile powers of Heaven and of Earth!"

"We seek to perceive them, and we do not see them; we seek to hear them, and we do not hear
them; identified with the substance of things, they cannot be separated from them."

"They cause that in all the universe men purify and sanctify their hearts, and clothe themselves
in their holiday garments to offer sacrifices and oblations to their ancestors. It is an ocean
of subtile intelligences. They are everywhere, above us, on our left, on our right; they environ
us on all sides."

We are the subjects of an experiment which is not a little interesting to me. Can we not do
without the society of our gossips a little while under these circumstances--have our own thoughts
to cheer us? Confucius says truly, "Virtue does not remain as an abandoned orphan; it must
of necessity have neighbors."

With thinking we may be beside ourselves in a sane sense. By a conscious effort of the mind
we can stand aloof from actions and their consequences; and all things, good and bad, go by
us like a torrent. We are not wholly involved in Nature. I may be either the driftwood in the
stream, or Indra in the sky looking down on it. I may be affected by a theatrical exhibition;
on the other hand, I may not be affected by an actual event which appears to concern me much
more. I only know myself as a human entity; the scene, so to speak, of thoughts and affections;
and am sensible of a certain doubleness by which I can stand as remote from myself as from
another. However intense my experience, I am conscious of the presence and criticism of a part
of me, which, as it were, is not a part of me, but spectator, sharing no experience, but taking
note of it, and that is no more I than it is you. When the play, it may be the tragedy, of
life is over, the spectator goes his way. It was a kind of fiction, a work of the imagination
only, so far as he was concerned. This doubleness may easily make us poor neighbors and friends
sometimes.

I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the
best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that
was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among
men than when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be
where he will. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man
and his fellows. The really diligent student in one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College
is as solitary as a dervish in the desert. The farmer can work alone in the field or the woods
all day, hoeing or chopping, and not feel lonesome, because he is employed; but when he comes
home at night he cannot sit down in a room alone, at the mercy of his thoughts, but must be
where he can "see the folks," and recreate, and, as he thinks, remunerate himself for his day's
solitude; and hence he wonders how the student can sit alone in the house all night and most
of the day without ennui and "the blues"; but he does not realize that the student, though
in the house, is still at work in his field, and chopping in his woods, as the farmer in his,
and in turn seeks the same recreation and society that the latter does, though it may be a
more condensed form of it.

Society is commonly too cheap. We meet at very short intervals, not having had time to acquire
any new value for each other. We meet at meals three times a day, and give each other a new
taste of that old musty cheese that we are. We have had to agree on a certain set of rules,
called etiquette and politeness, to make this frequent meeting tolerable and that we need not
come to open war. We meet at the post-office, and at the sociable, and about the fireside every
night; we live thick and are in each other's way, and stumble over one another, and I think
that we thus lose some respect for one another. Certainly less frequency would suffice for
all important and hearty communications. Consider the girls in a factory--never alone, hardly
in their dreams. It would be better if there were but one inhabitant to a square mile, as where
I live. The value of a man is not in his skin, that we should touch him.

I have heard of a man lost in the woods and dying of famine and exhaustion at the foot of a
tree, whose loneliness was relieved by the grotesque visions with which, owing to bodily weakness,
his diseased imagination surrounded him, and which he believed to be real. So also, owing to
bodily and mental health and strength, we may be continually cheered by a like but more normal
and natural society, and come to know that we are never alone.

I have a great deal of company in my house; especially in the morning, when nobody calls. Let
me suggest a few comparisons, that some one may convey an idea of my situation. I am no more
lonely than the loon in the pond that laughs so loud, or than Walden Pond itself. What company
has that lonely lake, I pray? And yet it has not the blue devils, but the blue angels in it,
in the azure tint of its waters. The sun is alone, except in thick weather, when there sometimes
appear to be two, but one is a mock sun. God is alone--but the devil, he is far from being
alone; he sees a great deal of company; he is legion. I am no more lonely than a single mullein
or dandelion in a pasture, or a bean leaf, or sorrel, or a horse-fly, or a bumblebee. I am
no more lonely than the Mill Brook, or a weathercock, or the north star, or the south wind,
or an April shower, or a January thaw, or the first spider in a new house.

I have occasional visits in the long winter evenings, when the snow falls fast and the wind
howls in the wood, from an old settler and original proprietor, who is reported to have dug
Walden Pond, and stoned it, and fringed it with pine woods; who tells me stories of old time
and of new eternity; and between us we manage to pass a cheerful evening with social mirth
and pleasant views of things, even without apples or cider--a most wise and humorous friend,
whom I love much, who keeps himself more secret than ever did Goffe or Whalley; and though
he is thought to be dead, none can show where he is buried. An elderly dame, too, dwells in
my neighborhood, invisible to most persons, in whose odorous herb garden I love to stroll sometimes,
gathering simples and listening to her fables; for she has a genius of unequalled fertility,
and her memory runs back farther than mythology, and she can tell me the original of every
fable, and on what fact every one is founded, for the incidents occurred when she was young.
A ruddy and lusty old dame, who delights in all weathers and seasons, and is likely to outlive
all her children yet.

The indescribable innocence and beneficence of Nature--of sun and wind and rain, of summer
and winter--such health, such cheer, they afford forever! and such sympathy have they ever
with our race, that all Nature would be affected, and the sun's brightness fade, and the winds
would sigh humanely, and the clouds rain tears, and the woods shed their leaves and put on
mourning in midsummer, if any man should ever for a just cause grieve. Shall I not have intelligence
with the earth? Am I not partly leaves and vegetable mould myself?

What is the pill which will keep us well, serene, contented? Not my or thy great-grandfather's,
but our great-grandmother Nature's universal, vegetable, botanic medicines, by which she has
kept herself young always, outlived so many old Parrs in her day, and fed her health with their
decaying fatness. For my panacea, instead of one of those quack vials of a mixture dipped from
Acheron and the Dead Sea, which come out of those long shallow black-schooner looking wagons
which we sometimes see made to carry bottles, let me have a draught of undiluted morning air.
Morning air! If men will not drink of this at the fountainhead of the day, why, then, we must
even bottle up some and sell it in the shops, for the benefit of those who have lost their
subscription ticket to morning time in this world. But remember, it will not keep quite till
noonday even in the coolest cellar, but drive out the stopples long ere that and follow westward
the steps of Aurora. I am no worshipper of Hygeia, who was the daughter of that old herb-doctor
AEsculapius, and who is represented on monuments holding a serpent in one hand, and in the
other a cup out of which the serpent sometimes drinks; but rather of Hebe, cup-bearer to Jupiter,
who was the daughter of Juno and wild lettuce, and who had the power of restoring gods and
men to the vigor of youth. She was probably the only thoroughly sound-conditioned, healthy,
and robust young lady that ever walked the globe, and wherever she came it was spring.

Visitors

I think that I love society as much as most, and am ready enough to fasten myself like a bloodsucker
for the time to any full-blooded man that comes in my way. I am naturally no hermit, but might
possibly sit out the sturdiest frequenter of the bar-room, if my business called me thither.

I had three chairs in my house; one for solitude, two for friendship, three for society. When
visitors came in larger and unexpected numbers there was but the third chair for them all,
but they generally economized the room by standing up. It is surprising how many great men
and women a small house will contain. I have had twenty-five or thirty souls, with their bodies,
at once under my roof, and yet we often parted without being aware that we had come very near
to one another. Many of our houses, both public and private, with their almost innumerable
apartments, their huge halls and their cellars for the storage of wines and other munitions
of peace, appear to be extravagantly large for their inhabitants. They are so vast and magnificent
that the latter seem to be only vermin which infest them. I am surprised when the herald blows
his summons before some Tremont or Astor or Middlesex House, to see come creeping out over
the piazza for all inhabitants a ridiculous mouse, which soon again slinks into some hole in
the pavement.

One inconvenience I sometimes experienced in so small a house, the difficulty of getting to
a sufficient distance from my guest when we began to utter the big thoughts in big words. You
want room for your thoughts to get into sailing trim and run a course or two before they make
their port. The bullet of your thought must have overcome its lateral and ricochet motion and
fallen into its last and steady course before it reaches the ear of the hearer, else it may
plow out again through the side of his head. Also, our sentences wanted room to unfold and
form their columns in the interval. Individuals, like nations, must have suitable broad and
natural boundaries, even a considerable neutral ground, between them. I have found it a singular
luxury to talk across the pond to a companion on the opposite side. In my house we were so
near that we could not begin to hear--we could not speak low enough to be heard; as when you
throw two stones into calm water so near that they break each other's undulations. If we are
merely loquacious and loud talkers, then we can afford to stand very near together, cheek by
jowl, and feel each other's breath; but if we speak reservedly and thoughtfully, we want to
be farther apart, that all animal heat and moisture may have a chance to evaporate. If we would
enjoy the most intimate society with that in each of us which is without, or above, being spoken
to, we must not only be silent, but commonly so far apart bodily that we cannot possibly hear
each other's voice in any case. Referred to this standard, speech is for the convenience of
those who are hard of hearing; but there are many fine things which we cannot say if we have
to shout. As the conversation began to assume a loftier and grander tone, we gradually shoved
our chairs farther apart till they touched the wall in opposite corners, and then commonly
there was not room enough.

My "best" room, however, my withdrawing room, always ready for company, on whose carpet the
sun rarely fell, was the pine wood behind my house. Thither in summer days, when distinguished
guests came, I took them, and a priceless domestic swept the floor and dusted the furniture
and kept the things in order.

If one guest came he sometimes partook of my frugal meal, and it was no interruption to conversation
to be stirring a hasty-pudding, or watching the rising and maturing of a loaf of bread in the
ashes, in the meanwhile. But if twenty came and sat in my house there was nothing said about
dinner, though there might be bread enough for two, more than if eating were a forsaken habit;
but we naturally practised abstinence; and this was never felt to be an offence against hospitality,
but the most proper and considerate course. The waste and decay of physical life, which so
often needs repair, seemed miraculously retarded in such a case, and the vital vigor stood
its ground. I could entertain thus a thousand as well as twenty; and if any ever went away
disappointed or hungry from my house when they found me at home, they may depend upon it that
I sympathized with them at least. So easy is it, though many housekeepers doubt it, to establish
new and better customs in the place of the old. You need not rest your reputation on the dinners
you give. For my own part, I was never so effectually deterred from frequenting a man's house,
by any kind of Cerberus whatever, as by the parade one made about dining me, which I took to
be a very polite and roundabout hint never to trouble him so again. I think I shall never revisit
those scenes. I should be proud to have for the motto of my cabin those lines of Spenser which
one of my visitors inscribed on a yellow walnut leaf for a card:--

       "Arrived there, the little house they fill,
           Ne looke for entertainment where none was;
        Rest is their feast, and all things at their will:
           The noblest mind the best contentment has."

When Winslow, afterward governor of the Plymouth Colony, went with a companion on a visit of
ceremony to Massasoit on foot through the woods, and arrived tired and hungry at his lodge,
they were well received by the king, but nothing was said about eating that day. When the night
arrived, to quote their own words--"He laid us on the bed with himself and his wife, they at
the one end and we at the other, it being only planks laid a foot from the ground and a thin
mat upon them. Two more of his chief men, for want of room, pressed by and upon us; so that
we were worse weary of our lodging than of our journey." At one o'clock the next day Massasoit
"brought two fishes that he had shot," about thrice as big as a bream. "These being boiled,
there were at least forty looked for a share in them; the most eat of them. This meal only
we had in two nights and a day; and had not one of us bought a partridge, we had taken our
journey fasting." Fearing that they would be light-headed for want of food and also sleep,
owing to "the savages' barbarous singing, (for they use to sing themselves asleep,)" and that
they might get home while they had strength to travel, they departed. As for lodging, it is
true they were but poorly entertained, though what they found an inconvenience was no doubt
intended for an honor; but as far as eating was concerned, I do not see how the Indians could
have done better. They had nothing to eat themselves, and they were wiser than to think that
apologies could supply the place of food to their guests; so they drew their belts tighter
and said nothing about it. Another time when Winslow visited them, it being a season of plenty
with them, there was no deficiency in this respect.

As for men, they will hardly fail one anywhere. I had more visitors while I lived in the woods
than at any other period in my life; I mean that I had some. I met several there under more
favorable circumstances than I could anywhere else. But fewer came to see me on trivial business.
In this respect, my company was winnowed by my mere distance from town. I had withdrawn so
far within the great ocean of solitude, into which the rivers of society empty, that for the
most part, so far as my needs were concerned, only the finest sediment was deposited around
me. Beside, there were wafted to me evidences of unexplored and uncultivated continents on
the other side.

Who should come to my lodge this morning but a true Homeric or Paphlagonian man--he had so
suitable and poetic a name that I am sorry I cannot print it here--a Canadian, a woodchopper
and post-maker, who can hole fifty posts in a day, who made his last supper on a woodchuck
which his dog caught. He, too, has heard of Homer, and, "if it were not for books," would "not
know what to do rainy days," though perhaps he has not read one wholly through for many rainy
seasons. Some priest who could pronounce the Greek itself taught him to read his verse in the
Testament in his native parish far away; and now I must translate to him, while he holds the
book, Achilles' reproof to Patroclus for his sad countenance.--

      "Why are you in tears, Patroclus, like a young girl?"
      "Or have you alone heard some news from Phthia?
       They say that Menoetius lives yet, son of Actor,
       And Peleus lives, son of AEacus, among the Myrmidons,
       Either of whom having died, we should greatly grieve."

He says, "That's good." He has a great bundle of white oak bark under his arm for a sick man,
gathered this Sunday morning. "I suppose there's no harm in going after such a thing to-day,"
says he. To him Homer was a great writer, though what his writing was about he did not know.
A more simple and natural man it would be hard to find. Vice and disease, which cast such a
sombre moral hue over the world, seemed to have hardly any existance for him. He was about
twenty-eight years old, and had left Canada and his father's house a dozen years before to
work in the States, and earn money to buy a farm with at last, perhaps in his native country.
He was cast in the coarsest mould; a stout but sluggish body, yet gracefully carried, with
a thick sunburnt neck, dark bushy hair, and dull sleepy blue eyes, which were occasionally
lit up with expression. He wore a flat gray cloth cap, a dingy wool-colored greatcoat, and
cowhide boots. He was a great consumer of meat, usually carrying his dinner to his work a couple
of miles past my house--for he chopped all summer--in a tin pail; cold meats, often cold woodchucks,
and coffee in a stone bottle which dangled by a string from his belt; and sometimes he offered
me a drink. He came along early, crossing my bean-field, though without anxiety or haste to
get to his work, such as Yankees exhibit. He wasn't a-going to hurt himself. He didn't care
if he only earned his board. Frequently he would leave his dinner in the bushes, when his dog
had caught a woodchuck by the way, and go back a mile and a half to dress it and leave it in
the cellar of the house where he boarded, after deliberating first for half an hour whether
he could not sink it in the pond safely till nightfall--loving to dwell long upon these themes.
He would say, as he went by in the morning, "How thick the pigeons are! If working every day
were not my trade, I could get all the meat I should want by hunting-pigeons, woodchucks, rabbits,
partridges--by gosh! I could get all I should want for a week in one day."

He was a skilful chopper, and indulged in some flourishes and ornaments in his art. He cut
his trees level and close to the ground, that the sprouts which came up afterward might be
more vigorous and a sled might slide over the stumps; and instead of leaving a whole tree to
support his corded wood, he would pare it away to a slender stake or splinter which you could
break off with your hand at last.

He interested me because he was so quiet and solitary and so happy withal; a well of good humor
and contentment which overflowed at his eyes. His mirth was without alloy. Sometimes I saw
him at his work in the woods, felling trees, and he would greet me with a laugh of inexpressible
satisfaction, and a salutation in Canadian French, though he spoke English as well. When I
approached him he would suspend his work, and with half-suppressed mirth lie along the trunk
of a pine which he had felled, and, peeling off the inner bark, roll it up into a ball and
chew it while he laughed and talked. Such an exuberance of animal spirits had he that he sometimes
tumbled down and rolled on the ground with laughter at anything which made him think and tickled
him. Looking round upon the trees he would exclaim--"By George! I can enjoy myself well enough
here chopping; I want no better sport." Sometimes, when at leisure, he amused himself all day
in the woods with a pocket pistol, firing salutes to himself at regular intervals as he walked.
In the winter he had a fire by which at noon he warmed his coffee in a kettle; and as he sat
on a log to eat his dinner the chickadees would sometimes come round and alight on his arm
and peck at the potato in his fingers; and he said that he "liked to have the little fellers
about him."

In him the animal man chiefly was developed. In physical endurance and contentment he was cousin
to the pine and the rock. I asked him once if he was not sometimes tired at night, after working
all day; and he answered, with a sincere and serious look, "Gorrappit, I never was tired in
my life." But the intellectual and what is called spiritual man in him were slumbering as in
an infant. He had been instructed only in that innocent and ineffectual way in which the Catholic
priests teach the aborigines, by which the pupil is never educated to the degree of consciousness,
but only to the degree of trust and reverence, and a child is not made a man, but kept a child.
When Nature made him, she gave him a strong body and contentment for his portion, and propped
him on every side with reverence and reliance, that he might live out his threescore years
and ten a child. He was so genuine and unsophisticated that no introduction would serve to
introduce him, more than if you introduced a woodchuck to your neighbor. He had got to find
him out as you did. He would not play any part. Men paid him wages for work, and so helped
to feed and clothe him; but he never exchanged opinions with them. He was so simply and naturally
humble--if he can be called humble who never aspires--that humility was no distinct quality
in him, nor could he conceive of it. Wiser men were demigods to him. If you told him that such
a one was coming, he did as if he thought that anything so grand would expect nothing of himself,
but take all the responsibility on itself, and let him be forgotten still. He never heard the
sound of praise. He particularly reverenced the writer and the preacher. Their performances
were miracles. When I told him that I wrote considerably, he thought for a long time that it
was merely the handwriting which I meant, for he could write a remarkably good hand himself.
I sometimes found the name of his native parish handsomely written in the snow by the highway,
with the proper French accent, and knew that he had passed. I asked him if he ever wished to
write his thoughts. He said that he had read and written letters for those who could not, but
he never tried to write thoughts--no, he could not, he could not tell what to put first, it
would kill him, and then there was spelling to be attended to at the same time!

I heard that a distinguished wise man and reformer asked him if he did not want the world to
be changed; but he answered with a chuckle of surprise in his Canadian accent, not knowing
that the question had ever been entertained before, "No, I like it well enough." It would have
suggested many things to a philosopher to have dealings with him. To a stranger he appeared
to know nothing of things in general; yet I sometimes saw in him a man whom I had not seen
before, and I did not know whether he was as wise as Shakespeare or as simply ignorant as a
child, whether to suspect him of a fine poetic consciousness or of stupidity. A townsman told
me that when he met him sauntering through the village in his small close-fitting cap, and
whistling to himself, he reminded him of a prince in disguise.

His only books were an almanac and an arithmetic, in which last he was considerably expert.
The former was a sort of cyclopaedia to him, which he supposed to contain an abstract of human
knowledge, as indeed it does to a considerable extent. I loved to sound him on the various
reforms of the day, and he never failed to look at them in the most simple and practical light.
He had never heard of such things before. Could he do without factories? I asked. He had worn
the home-made Vermont gray, he said, and that was good. Could he dispense with tea and coffee?
Did this country afford any beverage beside water? He had soaked hemlock leaves in water and
drank it, and thought that was better than water in warm weather. When I asked him if he could
do without money, he showed the convenience of money in such a way as to suggest and coincide
with the most philosophical accounts of the origin of this institution, and the very derivation
of the word pecunia. If an ox were his property, and he wished to get needles and thread at
the store, he thought it would be inconvenient and impossible soon to go on mortgaging some
portion of the creature each time to that amount. He could defend many institutions better
than any philosopher, because, in describing them as they concerned him, he gave the true reason
for their prevalence, and speculation had not suggested to him any other. At another time,
hearing Plato's definition of a man--a biped without feathers--and that one exhibited a cock
plucked and called it Plato's man, he thought it an important difference that the knees bent
the wrong way. He would sometimes exclaim, "How I love to talk! By George, I could talk all
day!" I asked him once, when I had not seen him for many months, if he had got a new idea this
summer. "Good Lord"--said he, "a man that has to work as I do, if he does not forget the ideas
he has had, he will do well. May be the man you hoe with is inclined to race; then, by gorry,
your mind must be there; you think of weeds." He would sometimes ask me first on such occasions,
if I had made any improvement. One winter day I asked him if he was always satisfied with himself,
wishing to suggest a substitute within him for the priest without, and some higher motive for
living. "Satisfied!" said he; "some men are satisfied with one thing, and some with another.
One man, perhaps, if he has got enough, will be satisfied to sit all day with his back to the
fire and his belly to the table, by George!" Yet I never, by any manoeuvring, could get him
to take the spiritual view of things; the highest that he appeared to conceive of was a simple
expediency, such as you might expect an animal to appreciate; and this, practically, is true
of most men. If I suggested any improvement in his mode of life, he merely answered, without
expressing any regret, that it was too late. Yet he thoroughly believed in honesty and the
like virtues.

There was a certain positive originality, however slight, to be detected in him, and I occasionally
observed that he was thinking for himself and expressing his own opinion, a phenomenon so rare
that I would any day walk ten miles to observe it, and it amounted to the re-origination of
many of the institutions of society. Though he hesitated, and perhaps failed to express himself
distinctly, he always had a presentable thought behind. Yet his thinking was so primitive and
immersed in his animal life, that, though more promising than a merely learned man's, it rarely
ripened to anything which can be reported. He suggested that there might be men of genius in
the lowest grades of life, however permanently humble and illiterate, who take their own view
always, or do not pretend to see at all; who are as bottomless even as Walden Pond was thought
to be, though they may be dark and muddy.

Many a traveller came out of his way to see me and the inside of my house, and, as an excuse
for calling, asked for a glass of water. I told them that I drank at the pond, and pointed
thither, offering to lend them a dipper. Far off as I lived, I was not exempted from the annual
visitation which occurs, methinks, about the first of April, when everybody is on the move;
and I had my share of good luck, though there were some curious specimens among my visitors.
Half-witted men from the almshouse and elsewhere came to see me; but I endeavored to make them
exercise all the wit they had, and make their confessions to me; in such cases making wit the
theme of our conversation; and so was compensated. Indeed, I found some of them to be wiser
than the so-called overseers of the poor and selectmen of the town, and thought it was time
that the tables were turned. With respect to wit, I learned that there was not much difference
between the half and the whole. One day, in particular, an inoffensive, simple-minded pauper,
whom with others I had often seen used as fencing stuff, standing or sitting on a bushel in
the fields to keep cattle and himself from straying, visited me, and expressed a wish to live
as I did. He told me, with the utmost simplicity and truth, quite superior, or rather inferior,
to anything that is called humility, that he was "deficient in intellect." These were his words.
The Lord had made him so, yet he supposed the Lord cared as much for him as for another. "I
have always been so," said he, "from my childhood; I never had much mind; I was not like other
children; I am weak in the head. It was the Lord's will, I suppose." And there he was to prove
the truth of his words. He was a metaphysical puzzle to me. I have rarely met a fellowman on
such promising ground--it was so simple and sincere and so true all that he said. And, true
enough, in proportion as he appeared to humble himself was he exalted. I did not know at first
but it was the result of a wise policy. It seemed that from such a basis of truth and frankness
as the poor weak-headed pauper had laid, our intercourse might go forward to something better
than the intercourse of sages.

I had some guests from those not reckoned commonly among the town's poor, but who should be;
who are among the world's poor, at any rate; guests who appeal, not to your hospitality, but
to your hospitalality; who earnestly wish to be helped, and preface their appeal with the information
that they are resolved, for one thing, never to help themselves. I require of a visitor that
he be not actually starving, though he may have the very best appetite in the world, however
he got it. Objects of charity are not guests. Men who did not know when their visit had terminated,
though I went about my business again, answering them from greater and greater remoteness.
Men of almost every degree of wit called on me in the migrating season. Some who had more wits
than they knew what to do with; runaway slaves with plantation manners, who listened from time
to time, like the fox in the fable, as if they heard the hounds a-baying on their track, and
looked at me beseechingly, as much as to say,--

           "O Christian, will you send me back?

One real runaway slave, among the rest, whom I helped to forward toward the north star. Men
of one idea, like a hen with one chicken, and that a duckling; men of a thousand ideas, and
unkempt heads, like those hens which are made to take charge of a hundred chickens, all in
pursuit of one bug, a score of them lost in every morning's dew--and become frizzled and mangy
in consequence; men of ideas instead of legs, a sort of intellectual centipede that made you
crawl all over. One man proposed a book in which visitors should write their names, as at the
White Mountains; but, alas! I have too good a memory to make that necessary.

I could not but notice some of the peculiarities of my visitors. Girls and boys and young women
generally seemed glad to be in the woods. They looked in the pond and at the flowers, and improved
their time. Men of business, even farmers, thought only of solitude and employment, and of
the great distance at which I dwelt from something or other; and though they said that they
loved a ramble in the woods occasionally, it was obvious that they did not. Restless committed
men, whose time was an taken up in getting a living or keeping it; ministers who spoke of God
as if they enjoyed a monopoly of the subject, who could not bear all kinds of opinions; doctors,
lawyers, uneasy housekeepers who pried into my cupboard and bed when I was out--how came Mrs.--to
know that my sheets were not as clean as hers?--young men who had ceased to be young, and had
concluded that it was safest to follow the beaten track of the professions--all these generally
said that it was not possible to do so much good in my position. Ay! there was the rub. The
old and infirm and the timid, of whatever age or sex, thought most of sickness, and sudden
accident and death; to them life seemed full of danger--what danger is there if you don't think
of any?--and they thought that a prudent man would carefully select the safest position, where
Dr. B. might be on hand at a moment's warning. To them the village was literally a community,
a league for mutual defence, and you would suppose that they would not go a-huckleberrying
without a medicine chest. The amount of it is, if a man is alive, there is always danger that
he may die, though the danger must be allowed to be less in proportion as he is dead-and-alive
to begin with. A man sits as many risks as he runs. Finally, there were the self-styled reformers,
the greatest bores of all, who thought that I was forever singing,--

       This is the house that I built;
       This is the man that lives in the house that I built;

but they did not know that the third line was,

              These are the folks that worry the man
              That lives in the house that I built.

I did not fear the hen-harriers, for I kept no chickens; but I feared the men-harriers rather.

I had more cheering visitors than the last. Children come a-berrying, railroad men taking a
Sunday morning walk in clean shirts, fishermen and hunters, poets and philosophers; in short,
all honest pilgrims, who came out to the woods for freedom's sake, and really left the village
behind, I was ready to greet with--"Welcome, Englishmen! welcome, Englishmen!" for I had had
communication with that race.

The Bean-Field

Meanwhile my beans, the length of whose rows, added together, was seven miles already planted,
were impatient to be hoed, for the earliest had grown considerably before the latest were in
the ground; indeed they were not easily to be put off. What was the meaning of this so steady
and self-respecting, this small Herculean labor, I knew not. I came to love my rows, my beans,
though so many more than I wanted. They attached me to the earth, and so I got strength like
Antaeus. But why should I raise them? Only Heaven knows. This was my curious labor all summer--to
make this portion of the earth's surface, which had yielded only cinquefoil, blackberries,
johnswort, and the like, before, sweet wild fruits and pleasant flowers, produce instead this
pulse. What shall I learn of beans or beans of me? I cherish them, I hoe them, early and late
I have an eye to them; and this is my day's work. It is a fine broad leaf to look on. My auxiliaries
are the dews and rains which water this dry soil, and what fertility is in the soil itself,
which for the most part is lean and effete. My enemies are worms, cool days, and most of all
woodchucks. The last have nibbled for me a quarter of an acre clean. But what right had I to
oust johnswort and the rest, and break up their ancient herb garden? Soon, however, the remaining
beans will be too tough for them, and go forward to meet new foes.

When I was four years old, as I well remember, I was brought from Boston to this my native
town, through these very woods and this field, to the pond. It is one of the oldest scenes
stamped on my memory. And now to-night my flute has waked the echoes over that very water.
The pines still stand here older than I; or, if some have fallen, I have cooked my supper with
their stumps, and a new growth is rising all around, preparing another aspect for new infant
eyes. Almost the same johnswort springs from the same perennial root in this pasture, and even
I have at length helped to clothe that fabulous landscape of my infant dreams, and one of the
results of my presence and influence is seen in these bean leaves, corn blades, and potato vines.

I planted about two acres and a half of upland; and as it was only about fifteen years since
the land was cleared, and I myself had got out two or three cords of stumps, I did not give
it any manure; but in the course of the summer it appeared by the arrowheads which I turned
up in hoeing, that an extinct nation had anciently dwelt here and planted corn and beans ere
white men came to clear the land, and so, to some extent, had exhausted the soil for this very
crop.

Before yet any woodchuck or squirrel had run across the road, or the sun had got above the
shrub oaks, while all the dew was on, though the farmers warned me against it--I would advise
you to do all your work if possible while the dew is on--I began to level the ranks of haughty
weeds in my bean-field and throw dust upon their heads. Early in the morning I worked barefooted,
dabbling like a plastic artist in the dewy and crumbling sand, but later in the day the sun
blistered my feet. There the sun lighted me to hoe beans, pacing slowly backward and forward
over that yellow gravelly upland, between the long green rows, fifteen rods, the one end terminating
in a shrub oak copse where I could rest in the shade, the other in a blackberry field where
the green berries deepened their tints by the time I had made another bout. Removing the weeds,
putting fresh soil about the bean stems, and encouraging this weed which I had sown, making
the yellow soil express its summer thought in bean leaves and blossoms rather than in wormwood
and piper and millet grass, making the earth say beans instead of grass--this was my daily
work. As I had little aid from horses or cattle, or hired men or boys, or improved implements
of husbandry, I was much slower, and became much more intimate with my beans than usual. But
labor of the hands, even when pursued to the verge of drudgery, is perhaps never the worst
form of idleness. It has a constant and imperishable moral, and to the scholar it yields a
classic result. A very agricola laboriosus was I to travellers bound westward through Lincoln
and Wayland to nobody knows where; they sitting at their ease in gigs, with elbows on knees,
and reins loosely hanging in festoons; I the home-staying, laborious native of the soil. But
soon my homestead was out of their sight and thought. It was the only open and cultivated field
for a great distance on either side of the road, so they made the most of it; and sometimes
the man in the field heard more of travellers' gossip and comment than was meant for his ear:
"Beans so late! peas so late!"--for I continued to plant when others had begun to hoe--the
ministerial husbandman had not suspected it. "Corn, my boy, for fodder; corn for fodder." "Does
he live there?" asks the black bonnet of the gray coat; and the hard-featured farmer reins
up his grateful dobbin to inquire what you are doing where he sees no manure in the furrow,
and recommends a little chip dirt, or any little waste stuff, or it may be ashes or plaster.
But here were two acres and a half of furrows, and only a hoe for cart and two hands to draw
it--there being an aversion to other carts and horses--and chip dirt far away. Fellow-travellers
as they rattled by compared it aloud with the fields which they had passed, so that I came
to know how I stood in the agricultural world. This was one field not in Mr. Coleman's report.
And, by the way, who estimates the value of the crop which nature yields in the still wilder
fields unimproved by man? The crop of English hay is carefully weighed, the moisture calculated,
the silicates and the potash; but in all dells and pond-holes in the woods and pastures and
swamps grows a rich and various crop only unreaped by man. Mine was, as it were, the connecting
link between wild and cultivated fields; as some states are civilized, and others half-civilized,
and others savage or barbarous, so my field was, though not in a bad sense, a half-cultivated
field. They were beans cheerfully returning to their wild and primitive state that I cultivated,
and my hoe played the Rans des Vaches for them.

Near at hand, upon the topmost spray of a birch, sings the brown thrasher--or red mavis, as
some love to call him--all the morning, glad of your society, that would find out another farmer's
field if yours were not here. While you are planting the seed, he cries--"Drop it, drop it--cover
it up, cover it up--pull it up, pull it up, pull it up." But this was not corn, and so it was
safe from such enemies as he. You may wonder what his rigmarole, his amateur Paganini performances
on one string or on twenty, have to do with your planting, and yet prefer it to leached ashes
or plaster. It was a cheap sort of top dressing in which I had entire faith.

As I drew a still fresher soil about the rows with my hoe, I disturbed the ashes of unchronicled
nations who in primeval years lived under these heavens, and their small implements of war
and hunting were brought to the light of this modern day. They lay mingled with other natural
stones, some of which bore the marks of having been burned by Indian fires, and some by the
sun, and also bits of pottery and glass brought hither by the recent cultivators of the soil.
When my hoe tinkled against the stones, that music echoed to the woods and the sky, and was
an accompaniment to my labor which yielded an instant and immeasurable crop. It was no longer
beans that I hoed, nor I that hoed beans; and I remembered with as much pity as pride, if I
remembered at all, my acquaintances who had gone to the city to attend the oratorios. The nighthawk
circled overhead in the sunny afternoons--for I sometimes made a day of it--like a mote in
the eye, or in heaven's eye, falling from time to time with a swoop and a sound as if the heavens
were rent, torn at last to very rags and tatters, and yet a seamless cope remained; small imps
that fill the air and lay their eggs on the ground on bare sand or rocks on the tops of hills,
where few have found them; graceful and slender like ripples caught up from the pond, as leaves
are raised by the wind to float in the heavens; such kindredship is in nature. The hawk is
aerial brother of the wave which he sails over and surveys, those his perfect air-inflated
wings answering to the elemental unfledged pinions of the sea. Or sometimes I watched a pair
of hen-hawks circling high in the sky, alternately soaring and descending, approaching, and
leaving one another, as if they were the embodiment of my own thoughts. Or I was attracted
by the passage of wild pigeons from this wood to that, with a slight quivering winnowing sound
and carrier haste; or from under a rotten stump my hoe turned up a sluggish portentous and
outlandish spotted salamander, a trace of Egypt and the Nile, yet our contemporary. When I
paused to lean on my hoe, these sounds and sights I heard and saw anywhere in the row, a part
of the inexhaustible entertainment which the country offers.

On gala days the town fires its great guns, which echo like popguns to these woods, and some
waifs of martial music occasionally penetrate thus far. To me, away there in my bean-field
at the other end of the town, the big guns sounded as if a puffball had burst; and when there
was a military turnout of which I was ignorant, I have sometimes had a vague sense all the
day of some sort of itching and disease in the horizon, as if some eruption would break out
there soon, either scarlatina or canker-rash, until at length some more favorable puff of wind,
making haste over the fields and up the Wayland road, brought me information of the "trainers."
It seemed by the distant hum as if somebody's bees had swarmed, and that the neighbors, according
to Virgil's advice, by a faint tintinnabulum upon the most sonorous of their domestic utensils,
were endeavoring to call them down into the hive again. And when the sound died quite away,
and the hum had ceased, and the most favorable breezes told no tale, I knew that they had got
the last drone of them all safely into the Middlesex hive, and that now their minds were bent
on the honey with which it was smeared.

I felt proud to know that the liberties of Massachusetts and of our fatherland were in such
safe keeping; and as I turned to my hoeing again I was filled with an inexpressible confidence,
and pursued my labor cheerfully with a calm trust in the future.

When there were several bands of musicians, it sounded as if all the village was a vast bellows
and all the buildings expanded and collapsed alternately with a din. But sometimes it was a
really noble and inspiring strain that reached these woods, and the trumpet that sings of fame,
and I felt as if I could spit a Mexican with a good relish--for why should we always stand
for trifles?--and looked round for a woodchuck or a skunk to exercise my chivalry upon. These
martial strains seemed as far away as Palestine, and reminded me of a march of crusaders in
the horizon, with a slight tantivy and tremulous motion of the elm tree tops which overhang
the village. This was one of the great days; though the sky had from my clearing only the same
everlastingly great look that it wears daily, and I saw no difference in it.

It was a singular experience that long acquaintance which I cultivated with beans, what with
planting, and hoeing, and harvesting, and threshing, and picking over and selling them--the
last was the hardest of all--I might add eating, for I did taste. I was determined to know
beans. When they were growing, I used to hoe from five o'clock in the morning till noon, and
commonly spent the rest of the day about other affairs. Consider the intimate and curious acquaintance
one makes with various kinds of weeds--it will bear some iteration in the account, for there
was no little iteration in the labor--disturbing their delicate organizations so ruthlessly,
and making such invidious distinctions with his hoe, levelling whole ranks of one species,
and sedulously cultivating another. That's Roman wormwood--that's pigweed--that's sorrel--that's
piper-grass--have at him, chop him up, turn his roots upward to the sun, don't let him have
a fibre in the shade, if you do he'll turn himself t' other side up and be as green as a leek
in two days. A long war, not with cranes, but with weeds, those Trojans who had sun and rain
and dews on their side. Daily the beans saw me come to their rescue armed with a hoe, and thin
the ranks of their enemies, filling up the trenches with weedy dead. Many a lusty crest--waving
Hector, that towered a whole foot above his crowding comrades, fell before my weapon and rolled
in the dust.

Those summer days which some of my contemporaries devoted to the fine arts in Boston or Rome,
and others to contemplation in India, and others to trade in London or New York, I thus, with
the other farmers of New England, devoted to husbandry. Not that I wanted beans to eat, for
I am by nature a Pythagorean, so far as beans are concerned, whether they mean porridge or
voting, and exchanged them for rice; but, perchance, as some must work in fields if only for
the sake of tropes and expression, to serve a parable-maker one day. It was on the whole a
rare amusement, which, continued too long, might have become a dissipation. Though I gave them
no manure, and did not hoe them all once, I hoed them unusualy well as far as I went, and was
paid for it in the end, "there being in truth," as Evelyn says, "no compost or laetation whatsoever
comparable to this continual motion, repastination, and turning of the mould with the spade."
"The earth," he adds elsewhere, "especially if fresh, has a certain magnetism in it, by which
it attracts the salt, power, or virtue (call it either) which gives it life, and is the logic
of all the labor and stir we keep about it, to sustain us; all dungings and other sordid temperings
being but the vicars succedaneous to this improvement." Moreover, this being one of those "worn-out
and exhausted lay fields which enjoy their sabbath," had perchance, as Sir Kenelm Digby thinks
likely, attracted "vital spirits" from the air. I harvested twelve bushels of beans.

But to be more particular, for it is complained that Mr. Coleman has reported chiefly the expensive
experiments of gentlemen farmers, my outgoes were,--

    For a hoe................................... $ 0.54
    Plowing, harrowing, and furrowing............  7.50  Too much.
    Beans for seed...............................  3.12+
    Potatoes for seed............................  1.33
    Peas for seed................................  0.40
    Turnip seed..................................  0.06
    White line for crow fence....................  0.02
    Horse cultivator and boy three hours.........  1.00
    Horse and cart to get crop...................  0.75
                                                --------
        In all.................................. $14.72+

My income was (patrem familias vendacem, non emacem esse oportet), from

    Nine bushels and twelve quarts of beans sold.. $16.94
    Five    "    large potatoes..................... 2.50
    Nine    "    small.............................. 2.25
    Grass........................................... 1.00
    Stalks.......................................... 0.75
                                                  -------
        In all.................................... $23.44
    Leaving a pecuniary profit,
        as I have elsewhere said, of.............. $ 8.71+

This is the result of my experience in raising beans: Plant the common small white bush bean
about the first of June, in rows three feet by eighteen inches apart, being careful to select
fresh round and unmixed seed. First look out for worms, and supply vacancies by planting anew.
Then look out for woodchucks, if it is an exposed place, for they will nibble off the earliest
tender leaves almost clean as they go; and again, when the young tendrils make their appearance,
they have notice of it, and will shear them off with both buds and young pods, sitting erect
like a squirrel. But above all harvest as early as possible, if you would escape frosts and
have a fair and salable crop; you may save much loss by this means.

This further experience also I gained: I said to myself, I will not plant beans and corn with
so much industry another summer, but such seeds, if the seed is not lost, as sincerity, truth,
simplicity, faith, innocence, and the like, and see if they will not grow in this soil, even
with less toil and manurance, and sustain me, for surely it has not been exhausted for these
crops. Alas! I said this to myself; but now another summer is gone, and another, and another,
and I am obliged to say to you, Reader, that the seeds which I planted, if indeed they were
the seeds of those virtues, were wormeaten or had lost their vitality, and so did not come
up. Commonly men will only be brave as their fathers were brave, or timid. This generation
is very sure to plant corn and beans each new year precisely as the Indians did centuries ago
and taught the first settlers to do, as if there were a fate in it. I saw an old man the other
day, to my astonishment, making the holes with a hoe for the seventieth time at least, and
not for himself to lie down in! But why should not the New Englander try new adventures, and
not lay so much stress on his grain, his potato and grass crop, and his orchards--raise other
crops than these? Why concern ourselves so much about our beans for seed, and not be concerned
at all about a new generation of men? We should really be fed and cheered if when we met a
man we were sure to see that some of the qualities which I have named, which we all prize more
than those other productions, but which are for the most part broadcast and floating in the
air, had taken root and grown in him. Here comes such a subtile and ineffable quality, for
instance, as truth or justice, though the slightest amount or new variety of it, along the
road. Our ambassadors should be instructed to send home such seeds as these, and Congress help
to distribute them over all the land. We should never stand upon ceremony with sincerity. We
should never cheat and insult and banish one another by our meanness, if there were present
the kernel of worth and friendliness. We should not meet thus in haste. Most men I do not meet
at all, for they seem not to have time; they are busy about their beans. We would not deal
with a man thus plodding ever, leaning on a hoe or a spade as a staff between his work, not
as a mushroom, but partially risen out of the earth, something more than erect, like swallows
alighted and walking on the ground:--

        "And as he spake, his wings would now and then
         Spread, as he meant to fly, then close again--"

so that we should suspect that we might be conversing with an angel. Bread may not always nourish
us; but it always does us good, it even takes stiffness out of our joints, and makes us supple
and buoyant, when we knew not what ailed us, to recognize any generosity in man or Nature,
to share any unmixed and heroic joy.

Ancient poetry and mythology suggest, at least, that husbandry was once a sacred art; but it
is pursued with irreverent haste and heedlessness by us, our object being to have large farms
and large crops merely. We have no festival, nor procession, nor ceremony, not excepting our
cattle-shows and so-called Thanksgivings, by which the farmer expresses a sense of the sacredness
of his calling, or is reminded of its sacred origin. It is the premium and the feast which
tempt him. He sacrifices not to Ceres and the Terrestrial Jove, but to the infernal Plutus
rather. By avarice and selfishness, and a grovelling habit, from which none of us is free,
of regarding the soil as property, or the means of acquiring property chiefly, the landscape
is deformed, husbandry is degraded with us, and the farmer leads the meanest of lives. He knows
Nature but as a robber. Cato says that the profits of agriculture are particularly pious or
just (maximeque pius quaestus), and according to Varro the old Romans "called the same earth
Mother and Ceres, and thought that they who cultivated it led a pious and useful life, and
that they alone were left of the race of King Saturn."

We are wont to forget that the sun looks on our cultivated fields and on the prairies and forests
without distinction. They all reflect and absorb his rays alike, and the former make but a
small part of the glorious picture which he beholds in his daily course. In his view the earth
is all equally cultivated like a garden. Therefore we should receive the benefit of his light
and heat with a corresponding trust and magnanimity. What though I value the seed of these
beans, and harvest that in the fall of the year? This broad field which I have looked at so
long looks not to me as the principal cultivator, but away from me to influences more genial
to it, which water and make it green. These beans have results which are not harvested by me.
Do they not grow for woodchucks partly? The ear of wheat (in Latin spica, obsoletely speca,
from spe, hope) should not be the only hope of the husbandman; its kernel or grain (granum
from gerendo, bearing) is not all that it bears. How, then, can our harvest fail? Shall I not
rejoice also at the abundance of the weeds whose seeds are the granary of the birds? It matters
little comparatively whether the fields fill the farmer's barns. The true husbandman will cease
from anxiety, as the squirrels manifest no concern whether the woods will bear chestnuts this
year or not, and finish his labor with every day, relinquishing all claim to the produce of
his fields, and sacrificing in his mind not only his first but his last fruits also.

The Village

After hoeing, or perhaps reading and writing, in the forenoon, I usually bathed again in the
pond, swimming across one of its coves for a stint, and washed the dust of labor from my person,
or smoothed out the last wrinkle which study had made, and for the afternoon was absolutely
free. Every day or two I strolled to the village to hear some of the gossip which is incessantly
going on there, circulating either from mouth to mouth, or from newspaper to newspaper, and
which, taken in homoeopathic doses, was really as refreshing in its way as the rustle of leaves
and the peeping of frogs. As I walked in the woods to see the birds and squirrels, so I walked
in the village to see the men and boys; instead of the wind among the pines I heard the carts
rattle. In one direction from my house there was a colony of muskrats in the river meadows;
under the grove of elms and buttonwoods in the other horizon was a village of busy men, as
curious to me as if they had been prairie-dogs, each sitting at the mouth of its burrow, or
running over to a neighbor's to gossip. I went there frequently to observe their habits. The
village appeared to me a great news room; and on one side, to support it, as once at Redding
& Company's on State Street, they kept nuts and raisins, or salt and meal and other groceries.
Some have such a vast appetite for the former commodity, that is, the news, and such sound
digestive organs, that they can sit forever in public avenues without stirring, and let it
simmer and whisper through them like the Etesian winds, or as if inhaling ether, it only producing
numbness and insensibility to pain--otherwise it would often be painful to bear--without affecting
the consciousness. I hardly ever failed, when I rambled through the village, to see a row of
such worthies, either sitting on a ladder sunning themselves, with their bodies inclined forward
and their eyes glancing along the line this way and that, from time to time, with a voluptuous
expression, or else leaning against a barn with their hands in their pockets, like caryatides,
as if to prop it up. They, being commonly out of doors, heard whatever was in the wind. These
are the coarsest mills, in which all gossip is first rudely digested or cracked up before it
is emptied into finer and more delicate hoppers within doors. I observed that the vitals of
the village were the grocery, the bar-room, the post-office, and the bank; and, as a necessary
part of the machinery, they kept a bell, a big gun, and a fire-engine, at convenient places;
and the houses were so arranged as to make the most of mankind, in lanes and fronting one another,
so that every traveller had to run the gauntlet, and every man, woman, and child might get
a lick at him. Of course, those who were stationed nearest to the head of the line, where they
could most see and be seen, and have the first blow at him, paid the highest prices for their
places; and the few straggling inhabitants in the outskirts, where long gaps in the line began
to occur, and the traveller could get over walls or turn aside into cow-paths, and so escape,
paid a very slight ground or window tax. Signs were hung out on all sides to allure him; some
to catch him by the appetite, as the tavern and victualling cellar; some by the fancy, as the
dry goods store and the jeweller's; and others by the hair or the feet or the skirts, as the
barber, the shoemaker, or the tailor. Besides, there was a still more terrible standing invitation
to call at every one of these houses, and company expected about these times. For the most
part I escaped wonderfully from these dangers, either by proceeding at once boldly and without
deliberation to the goal, as is recommended to those who run the gauntlet, or by keeping my
thoughts on high things, like Orpheus, who, "loudly singing the praises of the gods to his
lyre, drowned the voices of the Sirens, and kept out of danger." Sometimes I bolted suddenly,
and nobody could tell my whereabouts, for I did not stand much about gracefulness, and never
hesitated at a gap in a fence. I was even accustomed to make an irruption into some houses,
where I was well entertained, and after learning the kernels and very last sieveful of news--what
had subsided, the prospects of war and peace, and whether the world was likely to hold together
much longer--I was let out through the rear avenues, and so escaped to the woods again.

It was very pleasant, when I stayed late in town, to launch myself into the night, especially
if it was dark and tempestuous, and set sail from some bright village parlor or lecture room,
with a bag of rye or Indian meal upon my shoulder, for my snug harbor in the woods, having
made all tight without and withdrawn under hatches with a merry crew of thoughts, leaving only
my outer man at the helm, or even tying up the helm when it was plain sailing. I had many a
genial thought by the cabin fire "as I sailed." I was never cast away nor distressed in any
weather, though I encountered some severe storms. It is darker in the woods, even in common
nights, than most suppose. I frequently had to look up at the opening between the trees above
the path in order to learn my route, and, where there was no cart-path, to feel with my feet
the faint track which I had worn, or steer by the known relation of particular trees which
I felt with my hands, passing between two pines for instance, not more than eighteen inches
apart, in the midst of the woods, invariably, in the darkest night. Sometimes, after coming
home thus late in a dark and muggy night, when my feet felt the path which my eyes could not
see, dreaming and absent-minded all the way, until I was aroused by having to raise my hand
to lift the latch, I have not been able to recall a single step of my walk, and I have thought
that perhaps my body would find its way home if its master should forsake it, as the hand finds
its way to the mouth without assistance. Several times, when a visitor chanced to stay into
evening, and it proved a dark night, I was obliged to conduct him to the cart-path in the rear
of the house, and then point out to him the direction he was to pursue, and in keeping which
he was to be guided rather by his feet than his eyes. One very dark night I directed thus on
their way two young men who had been fishing in the pond. They lived about a mile off through
the woods, and were quite used to the route. A day or two after one of them told me that they
wandered about the greater part of the night, close by their own premises, and did not get
home till toward morning, by which time, as there had been several heavy showers in the meanwhile,
and the leaves were very wet, they were drenched to their skins. I have heard of many going
astray even in the village streets, when the darkness was so thick that you could cut it with
a knife, as the saying is. Some who live in the outskirts, having come to town a-shopping in
their wagons, have been obliged to put up for the night; and gentlemen and ladies making a
call have gone half a mile out of their way, feeling the sidewalk only with their feet, and
not knowing when they turned. It is a surprising and memorable, as well as valuable experience,
to be lost in the woods any time. Often in a snow-storm, even by day, one will come out upon
a well-known road and yet find it impossible to tell which way leads to the village. Though
he knows that he has travelled it a thousand times, he cannot recognize a feature in it, but
it is as strange to him as if it were a road in Siberia. By night, of course, the perplexity
is infinitely greater. In our most trivial walks, we are constantly, though unconsciously,
steering like pilots by certain well-known beacons and headlands, and if we go beyond our usual
course we still carry in our minds the bearing of some neighboring cape; and not till we are
completely lost, or turned round--for a man needs only to be turned round once with his eyes
shut in this world to be lost--do we appreciate the vastness and strangeness of nature. Every
man has to learn the points of compass again as often as he awakes, whether from sleep or any
abstraction. Not till we are lost, in other words not till we have lost the world, do we begin
to find ourselves, and realize where we are and the infinite extent of our relations.

One afternoon, near the end of the first summer, when I went to the village to get a shoe from
the cobbler's, I was seized and put into jail, because, as I have elsewhere related, I did
not pay a tax to, or recognize the authority of, the State which buys and sells men, women,
and children, like cattle, at the door of its senate-house. I had gone down to the woods for
other purposes. But, wherever a man goes, men will pursue and paw him with their dirty institutions,
and, if they can, constrain him to belong to their desperate odd-fellow society. It is true,
I might have resisted forcibly with more or less effect, might have run "amok" against society;
but I preferred that society should run "amok" against me, it being the desperate party. However,
I was released the next day, obtained my mended shoe, and returned to the woods in season to
get my dinner of huckleberries on Fair Haven Hill. I was never molested by any person but those
who represented the State. I had no lock nor bolt but for the desk which held my papers, not
even a nail to put over my latch or windows. I never fastened my door night or day, though
I was to be absent several days; not even when the next fall I spent a fortnight in the woods
of Maine. And yet my house was more respected than if it had been surrounded by a file of soldiers.
The tired rambler could rest and warm himself by my fire, the literary amuse himself with the
few books on my table, or the curious, by opening my closet door, see what was left of my dinner,
and what prospect I had of a supper. Yet, though many people of every class came this way to
the pond, I suffered no serious inconvenience from these sources, and I never missed anything
but one small book, a volume of Homer, which perhaps was improperly gilded, and this I trust
a soldier of our camp has found by this time. I am convinced, that if all men were to live
as simply as I then did, thieving and robbery would be unknown. These take place only in communities
where some have got more than is sufficient while others have not enough. The Pope's Homers
would soon get properly distributed.

                         "Nec bella fuerunt,
         Faginus astabat dum scyphus ante dapes."
                         "Nor wars did men molest,
         When only beechen bowls were in request."

"You who govern public affairs, what need have you to employ punishments? Love virtue, and
the people will be virtuous. The virtues of a superior man are like the wind; the virtues of
a common man are like the grass--I the grass, when the wind passes over it, bends."

The Ponds

Sometimes, having had a surfeit of human society and gossip, and worn out all my village friends,
I rambled still farther westward than I habitually dwell, into yet more unfrequented parts
of the town, "to fresh woods and pastures new," or, while the sun was setting, made my supper
of huckleberries and blueberries on Fair Haven Hill, and laid up a store for several days.
The fruits do not yield their true flavor to the purchaser of them, nor to him who raises them
for the market. There is but one way to obtain it, yet few take that way. If you would know
the flavor of huckleberries, ask the cowboy or the partridge. It is a vulgar error to suppose
that you have tasted huckleberries who never plucked them. A huckleberry never reaches Boston;
they have not been known there since they grew on her three hills. The ambrosial and essential
part of the fruit is lost with the bloom which is rubbed off in the market cart, and they become
mere provender. As long as Eternal Justice reigns, not one innocent huckleberry can be transported
thither from the country's hills.

Occasionally, after my hoeing was done for the day, I joined some impatient companion who had
been fishing on the pond since morning, as silent and motionless as a duck or a floating leaf,
and, after practising various kinds of philosophy, had concluded commonly, by the time I arrived,
that he belonged to the ancient sect of Coenobites. There was one older man, an excellent fisher
and skilled in all kinds of woodcraft, who was pleased to look upon my house as a building
erected for the convenience of fishermen; and I was equally pleased when he sat in my doorway
to arrange his lines. Once in a while we sat together on the pond, he at one end of the boat,
and I at the other; but not many words passed between us, for he had grown deaf in his later
years, but he occasionally hummed a psalm, which harmonized well enough with my philosophy.
Our intercourse was thus altogether one of unbroken harmony, far more pleasing to remember
than if it had been carried on by speech. When, as was commonly the case, I had none to commune
with, I used to raise the echoes by striking with a paddle on the side of my boat, filling
the surrounding woods with circling and dilating sound, stirring them up as the keeper of a
menagerie his wild beasts, until I elicited a growl from every wooded vale and hillside.

In warm evenings I frequently sat in the boat playing the flute, and saw the perch, which I
seem to have charmed, hovering around me, and the moon travelling over the ribbed bottom, which
was strewed with the wrecks of the forest. Formerly I had come to this pond adventurously,
from time to time, in dark summer nights, with a companion, and, making a fire close to the
water's edge, which we thought attracted the fishes, we caught pouts with a bunch of worms
strung on a thread, and when we had done, far in the night, threw the burning brands high into
the air like skyrockets, which, coming down into the pond, were quenched with a loud hissing,
and we were suddenly groping in total darkness. Through this, whistling a tune, we took our
way to the haunts of men again. But now I had made my home by the shore.

Sometimes, after staying in a village parlor till the family had all retired, I have returned
to the woods, and, partly with a view to the next day's dinner, spent the hours of midnight
fishing from a boat by moonlight, serenaded by owls and foxes, and hearing, from time to time,
the creaking note of some unknown bird close at hand. These experiences were very memorable
and valuable to me--anchored in forty feet of water, and twenty or thirty rods from the shore,
surrounded sometimes by thousands of small perch and shiners, dimpling the surface with their
tails in the moonlight, and communicating by a long flaxen line with mysterious nocturnal fishes
which had their dwelling forty feet below, or sometimes dragging sixty feet of line about the
pond as I drifted in the gentle night breeze, now and then feeling a slight vibration along
it, indicative of some life prowling about its extremity, of dull uncertain blundering purpose
there, and slow to make up its mind. At length you slowly raise, pulling hand over hand, some
horned pout squeaking and squirming to the upper air. It was very queer, especially in dark
nights, when your thoughts had wandered to vast and cosmogonal themes in other spheres, to
feel this faint jerk, which came to interrupt your dreams and link you to Nature again. It
seemed as if I might next cast my line upward into the air, as well as downward into this element,
which was scarcely more dense. Thus I caught two fishes as it were with one hook.

The scenery of Walden is on a humble scale, and, though very beautiful, does not approach to
grandeur, nor can it much concern one who has not long frequented it or lived by its shore;
yet this pond is so remarkable for its depth and purity as to merit a particular description.
It is a clear and deep green well, half a mile long and a mile and three quarters in circumference,
and contains about sixty-one and a half acres; a perennial spring in the midst of pine and
oak woods, without any visible inlet or outlet except by the clouds and evaporation. The surrounding
hills rise abruptly from the water to the height of forty to eighty feet, though on the southeast
and east they attain to about one hundred and one hundred and fifty feet respectively, within
a quarter and a third of a mile. They are exclusively woodland. All our Concord waters have
two colors at least; one when viewed at a distance, and another, more proper, close at hand.
The first depends more on the light, and follows the sky. In clear weather, in summer, they
appear blue at a little distance, especially if agitated, and at a great distance all appear
alike. In stormy weather they are sometimes of a dark slate-color. The sea, however, is said
to be blue one day and green another without any perceptible change in the atmosphere. I have
seen our river, when, the landscape being covered with snow, both water and ice were almost
as green as grass. Some consider blue "to be the color of pure water, whether liquid or solid."
But, looking directly down into our waters from a boat, they are seen to be of very different
colors. Walden is blue at one time and green at another, even from the same point of view.
Lying between the earth and the heavens, it partakes of the color of both. Viewed from a hilltop
it reflects the color of the sky; but near at hand it is of a yellowish tint next the shore
where you can see the sand, then a light green, which gradually deepens to a uniform dark green
in the body of the pond. In some lights, viewed even from a hilltop, it is of a vivid green
next the shore. Some have referred this to the reflection of the verdure; but it is equally
green there against the railroad sandbank, and in the spring, before the leaves are expanded,
and it may be simply the result of the prevailing blue mixed with the yellow of the sand. Such
is the color of its iris. This is that portion, also, where in the spring, the ice being warmed
by the heat of the sun reflected from the bottom, and also transmitted through the earth, melts
first and forms a narrow canal about the still frozen middle. Like the rest of our waters,
when much agitated, in clear weather, so that the surface of the waves may reflect the sky
at the right angle, or because there is more light mixed with it, it appears at a little distance
of a darker blue than the sky itself; and at such a time, being on its surface, and looking
with divided vision, so as to see the reflection, I have discerned a matchless and indescribable
light blue, such as watered or changeable silks and sword blades suggest, more cerulean than
the sky itself, alternating with the original dark green on the opposite sides of the waves,
which last appeared but muddy in comparison. It is a vitreous greenish blue, as I remember
it, like those patches of the winter sky seen through cloud vistas in the west before sundown.
Yet a single glass of its water held up to the light is as colorless as an equal quantity of
air. It is well known that a large plate of glass will have a green tint, owing, as the makers
say, to its "body," but a small piece of the same will be colorless. How large a body of Walden
water would be required to reflect a green tint I have never proved. The water of our river
is black or a very dark brown to one looking directly down on it, and, like that of most ponds,
imparts to the body of one bathing in it a yellowish tinge; but this water is of such crystalline
purity that the body of the bather appears of an alabaster whiteness, still more unnatural,
which, as the limbs are magnified and distorted withal, produces a monstrous effect, making
fit studies for a Michael Angelo.

The water is so transparent that the bottom can easily be discerned at the depth of twenty-five
or thirty feet. Paddling over it, you may see, many feet beneath the surface, the schools of
perch and shiners, perhaps only an inch long, yet the former easily distinguished by their
transverse bars, and you think that they must be ascetic fish that find a subsistence there.
Once, in the winter, many years ago, when I had been cutting holes through the ice in order
to catch pickerel, as I stepped ashore I tossed my axe back on to the ice, but, as if some
evil genius had directed it, it slid four or five rods directly into one of the holes, where
the water was twenty-five feet deep. Out of curiosity, I lay down on the ice and looked through
the hole, until I saw the axe a little on one side, standing on its head, with its helve erect
and gently swaying to and fro with the pulse of the pond; and there it might have stood erect
and swaying till in the course of time the handle rotted off, if I had not disturbed it. Making
another hole directly over it with an ice chisel which I had, and cutting down the longest
birch which I could find in the neighborhood with my knife, I made a slip-noose, which I attached
to its end, and, letting it down carefully, passed it over the knob of the handle, and drew
it by a line along the birch, and so pulled the axe out again.

The shore is composed of a belt of smooth rounded white stones like paving-stones, excepting
one or two short sand beaches, and is so steep that in many places a single leap will carry
you into water over your head; and were it not for its remarkable transparency, that would
be the last to be seen of its bottom till it rose on the opposite side. Some think it is bottomless.
It is nowhere muddy, and a casual observer would say that there were no weeds at all in it;
and of noticeable plants, except in the little meadows recently overflowed, which do not properly
belong to it, a closer scrutiny does not detect a flag nor a bulrush, nor even a lily, yellow
or white, but only a few small heart-leaves and potamogetons, and perhaps a water-target or
two; all which however a bather might not perceive; and these plants are clean and bright like
the element they grow in. The stones extend a rod or two into the water, and then the bottom
is pure sand, except in the deepest parts, where there is usually a little sediment, probably
from the decay of the leaves which have been wafted on to it so many successive falls, and
a bright green weed is brought up on anchors even in midwinter.

We have one other pond just like this, White Pond, in Nine Acre Corner, about two and a half
miles westerly; but, though I am acquainted with most of the ponds within a dozen miles of
this centre I do not know a third of this pure and well-like character. Successive nations
perchance have drank at, admired, and fathomed it, and passed away, and still its water is
green and pellucid as ever. Not an intermitting spring! Perhaps on that spring morning when
Adam and Eve were driven out of Eden Walden Pond was already in existence, and even then breaking
up in a gentle spring rain accompanied with mist and a southerly wind, and covered with myriads
of ducks and geese, which had not heard of the fall, when still such pure lakes sufficed them.
Even then it had commenced to rise and fall, and had clarified its waters and colored them
of the hue they now wear, and obtained a patent of Heaven to be the only Walden Pond in the
world and distiller of celestial dews. Who knows in how many unremembered nations' literatures
this has been the Castalian Fountain? or what nymphs presided over it in the Golden Age? It
is a gem of the first water which Concord wears in her coronet.

