The Baron must say a word about Voces Populi, by F. ANSTEY, author of the immortal Vice Versâ.
That the series contained in this volume appeared in Mr. Punch's pages is sufficient guarantee
for the excellence of its quality, and more than this it would not become the Baron to say;
but of the illustrations by J. BERNARD PARTRIDGE the Baron can speak--and speak in terms of
the highest admiration of them--as works of genuinely artistic humour. There are twenty illustrations,
that is, ten brace of Partridges, if he will allow the Baron so far to make game of him. The
book is published by LONGMANS, GREEN & Co.

The Leadenhall Press has brought out, in Pocket form, Prince Dorus, by CHARLES LAMB, with nine
coloured illustrations, following the original Edition of 1811. The lines are not very Lamb-like,
but the illustrations are very quaint, and the Pocket Volume is a curiosity of literature.

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A REALLY VALUABLE SUGGESTION.

(TO THE EDITOR OF PUNCH.)

DEAR SIR,--As the conductor of the recognised organ of the legal profession, I have the honour
to address you. My learned and accomplished friend. Mr. MONTAGU WILLIAMS, Q.C., complained
the other day that there was a right of appeal from the Police Court to the Bench of Middlesex
Magistrates. He said that his colleagues were barristers and gentlemen of considerable eminence,
and in those characters were better able to decide upon the merits of a case than the persons
who compose the Tribunal to which appeal from their decision is permissible. I have not recently
looked through the list of Metropolitan Police Magistrates, but, if they have been chosen from
the ranks of literature and law, as they were thirty years ago, I can well understand that
they are an exceedingly capable body of men. That so accomplished a littérateur and admirable
an advocate as my friend Mr. MONTAGU WILLIAMS himself should have been raised to the Magisterial
bench, is a proof that the standard has been maintained. But, Sir, can nothing be done for
the other tribunal?

Would it not be possible to appoint a certain proportion of stipendiaries, with ample salaries,
to that body? What is wanted are men with a perfect knowledge of the law, and a large experience
of the adversities as well as the pleasures of life. If they occasionally dabble in literature,
so much the better. But, it may be said, where are such men to be found? I answer, in very
many places, and, to encourage the authorities in their search, shall be most happy to personally
head the list.

Yours, very faithfully,

(Signed) A. BRIEFLESS, JUNIOR. Pump-handle Court, Oct. 4th, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GROAN OF THE GUSHLESS.

(A SONG À LA SHENSTONE.)

    ["What is described as an Anti-Gush Society has, according
    to a Pittsburg paper, been formed in New York, its object
    being to check the growing tendency, especially noticeable
    among young people of the period, to express themselves in
    exaggerated language."]

Girl Member of the A.G.S. loq.:--

  Ye maidens, so cheerful and gay,
    Whose words ever fulsomely fall,
  Oh, pity your friend, who to-day
    Has become a Society's thrall.
  Allow me to muse and to sigh,
    Nor talk of the change that ye find;
  None once was more happy than I;
    But, alas! I've left Gushing behind!

  Now I know what it is to have strove[1]
    With the tortures of verbal desire.
  I must use measured terms, where I love,
    And be moderate, when I admire.
  No slang must my diction adorn,
    I must never say "awfully swell."
  Alas! I feel flat and forlorn,
    I have bidden Girl-Gushing farewell!

  Since I put down my name in that book
    I have never called bonnets "divine,"
  For our Sec. with a soul-shaking look,
    Would be down on your friend with a fine.
  So the milliners now I pass by;
    Though dearly they pleased me of yore;
  If a girl musn't gush, squirm, and sigh,
    Even shopping becomes quite a bore.

  For "gorgeous" I languish in vain,
    And I pine for a "love"--and a "dear."
  Oh! why did I vow to be plain--
    In my speech? It sounds awfully queer!
  Stop! "Awfully" is not allowed.
    Though it will slip out sometimes, I own.
  Oh, I might as well sit in my shroud,
    As use moderate language alone.

  To force us fair nymphs to forego
    The hyperbole dear to our heart,
  And the slang without which speech is "slow,"
    Is to make us a "people apart."
  Oh, to say (without fines) "quite too-too!"
    For dear "awfully jolly" I yearn.
  I would "chuck" all my friends, sweet--save you--
    To the pathways of Gush to return.

  Eh? "Chuck" did I say? That is Slang!
    And "Sweet?" That's decidedly Gush!
  Oh, let the A.G.S. go hang!
    My old love returns with a rush.
  It is "gorgeous" once more to be free,
    O'er a frock or a first night to glow.
  Come to-morrow! Go shopping with me,
    Ownest own--and we'll gush as we go!

[Footnote 1: SHENSTONE, not Mr. Punch, is responsible for the peccant participle.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MODERN NELSON MOTTO.--At the Church Congress. Lord NELSON expressed a strong desire for
the union of Dissenters with Churchmen. If his Lordship's reading of the old Nelsonian motto
is "England expects that every clergyman (Dissenter or Churchman) should do somebody else's
duty," then England will have to wait a considerable time for the Utopian realisation of this
pious wish.