THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 17, No. 495.] SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERMITAGE AT FROGMORE.

Frogmore is one of the most delightful of the still retreats of Royalty. It was formerly the
seat of the Hon. Mrs. Egerton, of whom it was purchased by Queen Charlotte, in 1792, who made
considerable additions to the house and gardens. The grounds were laid out by Uvedale Price,
Esq. a celebrated person in the annals of picturesque gardening. The ornamental improvements
were made by the direction of the Princess Elizabeth, (now Landgravine of Hesse Homburg,) whose
taste for rural quiet we noticed in connexion with an Engraving of Her Royal Highness' Cottage,
adjoining Old Windsor churchyard. [1]

    [1]: See Mirror, No 475.

Frogmore occupies part of a fertile valley, which divides the Little Park from Windsor Forest,
and comprises about thirteen acres. Mr. Hakewill describes it as "diversified with great skill
and taste, and a piece of water winds throughout it with a pleasing variety of turn and shape.
The trees and shrubs, both native and exotic, which spread their shade and diffuse their fragrance,
are disposed with the best effect; while buildings are so placed as to enliven and give character
to the general scene. The Ruin was designed by Mr. James Wyatt, and being seated on the bank
of the water, as well as in part in the wood, it presents, with its creeping ivy and fractured
buttresses, a most pleasing object from various points of the garden. The Hermitage (see the
Engraving) is a small circular thatched building, completely embowered in lofty trees, and
was constructed from a drawing of the Princess Elizabeth. There is also a Gothic Temple, sacred
to solitude, and a well-imagined and picturesque barn, which heighten the appropriate scenery.
Too much cannot be said of the secluded beauty of this charming spot, and nothing further need
be said of the taste and judgment of Major Price, to whom its arrangements have been entrusted."

The Hermitage contains a tablet spread with fruit, eggs, and bread, and a figure of a hermit
reading the Scriptures; at the entrance are the following lines, written on the marriage of
the Princess Royal:--

  Ye whom variety delights,
  Descend awhile from Windsor's heights,
  And in this hovel deign to tread,
  Quitting the castle for the shed;
  Such were the muse's favourite haunts,
  From care secluded and from wants.
  What nature needs this but can give,
  Could we as nature dictates live;
  For see, on this plain board at noon
  Are placed a platter and a spoon,
  Which, though they mark no gorgeous treat,
  Suggest 'tis reasonable to eat.
  What though the sun's meridian light
  Beams not on our hovel bright,
  Though others need, we need him not,
  Coolness and gloom befit a cot.
  Our hours we count without the sun.
  These sands proclaim them as they run,
  Sands within a glass confined,
  Glass which ribs of iron bind;
  For Time, still partial to this glass,
  Made it durable as brass,
  That, placed secure upon a shelf,
  None might crush it but himself.
  Let us here the day prolong
  With loyal and with nuptial song,
  Such as, with duteous strains addrest,
  May gratify each royal guest;
  Thrice happy, should our rural toils
  Be requited by their smiles.

There are other affectionate testimonials in the grounds. The Gothic ruin contains an apartment
fitted up as an oratory, ornamented with a copy of the Descent from the Cross, modelled in
chalk, after the celebrated painting by Rembrandt; busts of George III. and the Duke of Kent;
a posthumous marble figure of an infant child of his present Majesty; and an alto-relievo representing
an ascending spirit attended by a guardian angel with the inscription--

             Monumental Tablet
               To the Memory
                   of
  Her Royal Highness the Princess Charlotte.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT WAGES TO MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.

(For the Mirror.)

Chamberlayne, in his Angliæ Notitia, says, "Although the lords of parliament are to bear their
own charges, because they represent there only themselves; yet all the commons, both lay and
clergy, that is, Procuratores Cleri, are to have rationales expensus, (as the words of the
writ are) that is, such allowance as the king considering the prices of all things, shall judge
meet to impose upon the people to pay. In the 17th of Edward II. it was ten groats for knights,
and five groats for burgesses; but not long after it was four shillings for all others, which
in those days, as appears by the prices of all things, was a considerable sum, above ten times
more than it is now, (1688) for not only then expenses were considered, though that was great
by reason of the suitable attendance that then every parliament-man had, but also their pains,
their loss of time, and necessary neglect of their own private affairs for the service of their
country; and when the counties, cities, and boroughs paid so dear for their expenses, they
were wont to take care to chuse such men as were best able, and most diligent in the speedy
despatch of affairs; by which means, with some others, more business in those times was despatched
in parliament in a week, than is now perhaps in ten; so that the protections for parliament-men
and their servants from arrests were not then grievous, when scarce any parliament or sessions
lasted so long as one of the four terms at Westminster.

"The aforementioned expenses duly paid, did cause all the petty decayed boroughs of England
to become humble suitors to the king, that they might not be obliged to send burgesses to parliament;
whereby it came to pass, that divers were unburgessed, as it was in particular granted to Chipping,
or Market-Morriton, upon their petition; and then the number of the Commons House being scarce
half so many as at present, then debates and bills were sooner expedited." page 156, 21st. edit.

Halsted, in his History of Kent, tells us, "The pay of the burgesses of Canterbury was fixed
(anno 1411) at two shillings a-day for each, while such burgess was absent from his family
attending his duty. In 1445 the wages were no more than twelve pence a-day; two years afterwards
they were increased to sixteenpence, and in 1503 had again been raised to two shillings. In
Queen Mary's reign, the corporation refused to continue this payment any longer, and the wages
of the members were then levied by assessment on the inhabitants at large, and continued to
be so raised till these kinds of payments were altogether discontinued."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORD "EI."

(For the Mirror.)

This word, which was engraven on the temple of Apollo, at Delphi, has occasioned much controversy
among the literati. The learned and admirable Plutarch tells us that it means "thou art" as
if "thou art one." The Langhornes, in their life of this philosopher, [2] attack his opinion
as inconsistent with "the whole tenour of the Heathen Mythology." It in to be observed, that
the Greek word for priests is "[Greek: iereis]" (iereis). But I infer nothing from this; yet
at the same time it is a remarkable circumstance. The objection of the Langhornes is frivolous;
for the sun (Apollo) in most nations, was considered chief of the gods, and this inscription
was placed to prove his superiority and unity.

    [2] Langhorne's Plutarch, vol. i. p. xv.--Limbird's edition.

It is a very remarkable circumstance, that when the Pythia refused to enter the temple, at
the application of Alexander, "Philip's godlike son," and he attempting to force her in, she
exclaimed--"[Greek: Anikaetos ei o pai]" (My son, you are invincible.) Now, probably, she had
some other intention in using that word; but, however, that does not affect the argument. I
cannot but consider that Plutarch is right.

B.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FAREWELL TO SPAIN.

    FOR MUSIC.

(For the Mirror.)

  Land of the myrtle and the vine,
    The sunny citron-tree,
  With heart upon the waves I give
    My latest look to thee.

  Thy glorious scenes of vale and hill
    With joy I now resign,
  And seek a more congenial land,
    Where Freedom will be mine.

  Farewell! thou hast the iron sway
    Of bigots and of slaves,
  But mine shall be a chainless heart
    Upon the dark blue waves.

  For thee our sires have fought and died,
    For thee their blood have given,
  When tyrants o'er the trampled field
    Like thunder-clouds were driven.

  And has the purple tide in vain,
    From hill and vale been poured,
  Or do the hopes of Freedom sleep
    With mighty Mina's sword?

  Oh! no--the trumpet-voice of war,
    Shall proudly sound again,
  And millions shall obey its call,
    And break their chartered chain!

  Till then, my native hearth and home
    I'll joyfully resign;
  Farewell! thou song-enchanted land
    Of myrtle and of vine.

  Deal.            G.K.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DEATH-BEDS OF GREAT MEN.

(For the Mirror.)

If there are any remarks which deserve to be recorded for the benefit of mankind, they are
those which have been expressed on a dying bed, when, unfettered by prejudice or passion, Truth
shines forth in her real colours. Sir John Hawkins has recorded of Dr. Johnson, that when suffering
under that disease which ended in his dissolution, he addressed his friends in the following
words:--"You see the state I am in, conflicting with bodily pain and mental distraction. While
you are in health and strength, labour to do good, and avoid evil, if ever you wish to escape
the distress that oppresses me."

When Lord Lyttleton was on his death-bed, his daughter, Lady Valentia, and her husband, came
to see him. He gave them his solemn benediction, adding--"Be good, be virtuous, my lord; you
must come to this."

The triumphant death of Addison will be remembered with feelings of pleasure by all. Having
sent for the young Earl of Warwick, he affectionately pressed his hand, saying--"See in what
peace a Christian can die!"

The father of William Penn was opposed to his son's religious principles; but finding that
he acted with sincerity, was at last reconciled. When dying, he adjured him to do nothing contrary
to his conscience--"So," said he, "you will keep peace within, which will be a comfort in the
day of trouble."

Locke, the day before his death, addressed Lady Masham, who was sitting by his bedside, exhorting
her to regard this world only as a state of preparation for a better. He added, that he had
lived long enough, and expressed his gratitude to God for the happiness that had fallen to his lot.

Tillotson, when dying, thanked his Maker that he felt his conscience at ease, and that he had
nothing further to do but to await the will of Heaven.

Sir Walter Raleigh behaved on the scaffold with the greatest composure. Having vindicated his
conduct in an eloquent speech, he felt the edge of the axe, observing with a smile--"It is
a sharp medicine, but a sure remedy, for all woes." Being asked which way he would lay himself
on the block, he replied--"So the heart be right, it is no matter which way the head lies."

The author of Hervey's Meditations, when on his sick bed, observed that his time had been too
much occupied in reading the historians, orators, and poets of ancient and modern times; and
that were he to renew his studies, he would devote his attention to the Scriptures.

The last words which the eminent physician Haller addressed to his medical attendant expressed
the calm serenity of his mind. "My friend," said he, laying his hand on his pulse, "the artery
no longer beats."

M. De La Harpe, one of the first literary characters of the last century, who for many years
laboured to spread the principles of the French philosophy, but afterwards became a most strenuous
defender of Christianity, on the evening preceding his death was visited by a friend. He was
listening to the Prayers for the Sick; as soon as they were concluded, he stretched forth his
hand and said--"I am grateful to Divine mercy, for having left me sufficient recollection to
feel how consoling these prayers are to the dying."

Cardinal Wolsey, when dying, by slow progress and short journeys, reached Leicester Abbey.
He was received with the greatest respect. His only observation was, "Father Abbot, I am come
to lay my bones among you." He died three days after, with, great composure and fortitude.

Melancthon, a few days before his death, although extremely debilitated, delivered his usual
lecture. At the termination of it, he said, impressively--"I am a dying man, and these are
the three subjects for intercession with God, which I leave to my children and their little
ones--that they may form part of his church, and worship him aright--that they may be one in
him, and live in harmony with each other--and that they may be fellow-heirs of eternal life."
The day before his death, he addressed some present--"God bestows talents on our youth, do
you see that they use them aright." While dying, his friends discerned a slight motion of the
countenance, which was peculiar to him when deeply affected by religious joy.

W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

OSMYN AND ZAMBRI.

A Persian Tale. From the French.

(From a Correspondent.)

A worthy old Persian having arrived at the end of an irreproachable life, experienced in his
last moments the greatest uneasiness for the fate of his two sons, whom he was about to leave
without fortune, without a livelihood, and without a prospect. The elder called Osmyn, was
twenty years of age, and the younger, eighteen, bore the name of Zambri.

As the old man drew near his last hour, he thought much less of his own sufferings than of
the fate of his children, when his ear was agreeably struck with a soft and melodious voice,
which said to him, "Fear nothing, old man, I will watch over your children; die in peace as
thou hast lived. I bring a present for each of your sons; let them make good use of it, and
one day perhaps they may be re-united, and live in happiness."

At these words a balsamic odour spread itself in the cottage, and a bright light discovered
to the view of the astonished Persian, the features of a young man, whose expressive countenance
had in it something celestial. It was a beneficent genius, who after having deposited his presents
on the bed of the old man, vanished like lightning. The old man called his two sons, they ran
eagerly towards him with a light, and approached the bed of their father, who related to them
the visit he had been honoured with, and showed them the presents of the genius. On one side
was a small box covered with brilliant spangles; on the other a sheet of paper carefully sealed.
"Come Osmyn," said the old man, "you are the eldest, it is for you to choose."

Osmyn attracted by the richness of the box, chose it with eagerness, and poor Zambri was obliged
to be contented with the humble envelope. The old man embraced them, blessed them, and died
as one resigning himself to the arms of hope. After having wept sincerely the death of so good
a father, and having rendered the last offices to his remains, the two brothers were anxious
to know what aid they should find in the presents of the genius. Osmyn opened his little box
and found it filled with pastilles of divers forms and colours. He was almost tempted to laugh
at the meanness of such a gift, when he perceived these words written on the lid of the box--"Each
time that thou eatest one of these pastilles, thine imagination will bring forth a poem perfect
in all its parts, sublime and delicate in its details, such in short as will surpass the ablest
works of the best Persian poets."

Osmyn did not want vanity; the possession of so fine a secret failed not to turn his young
brain, and a hundred illusions of fortune and glory presented themselves at once to his imagination.

From the value of the present given by the genius to his brother, Zambri doubted not that his
paper contained also some marvellous secret. He opened it and read with as much surprise as
sorrow--"A new Receipt for preparing Sherbet." Some lines pointed out the method of composing
a liquor, of which one drop only being infused in a bowl of Sherbet, would give it a taste
and perfume hitherto unknown to the most voluptuous Asiatics.

Osmyn was overjoyed, and Zambri was in despair; Osmyn wished not to quit his brother, but the
orders of the genius were imperative. The two brothers embraced each other tenderly, shed tears,
and separated. The eldest took the road to Bagdad, where all the learned, and all the poets
of Asia were assembled to attend the court of the Caliph. As to poor Zambri, he quitted the
cottage of his father, carrying nothing with him but the humble receipt for preparing Sherbet,
and leaving to chance the direction of his course.

Before his arrival at Bagdad, Osmyn had already eaten half-a-dozen of the pastilles, and consequently
carried with him half-a-dozen poems, beside which were to fade the productions of the greatest
Eastern poets. But he soon found that pretenders to talent often succeed better than those
who really possess it. He felt the necessity of connecting himself with literary men, and men
of the world; but he only found them occupied with their business, their pleasures, or their
own pretensions. Under what title could he present himself? Under that of a poet? The court
and the city overflowed with them; they had already filled every avenue. To consult his fellows
would be to consult his rivals; to ask their praises would be to ask a miser for his treasures.
Besides, so many books appeared, that people did not care to read. However, Osmyn's works were
published, but they were not even noticed in the multitude of similar productions.

After having vegetated four or five years at Bagdad, without obtaining anything but weak encouragement
given by wise men, (who are without influence because they are wise,) poor Osmyn began to lose
the brilliant hopes that formerly had dazzled him. However, by dint of eating the pastilles,
he at last attracted some notice. If it requires time for genius to emerge from obscurity,
no sooner is it known than recompense is made for slow injustice. It is sought after not for
itself, but for the sake of vanity. Envy often avails itself of it as a fit instrument subservient
to its own purposes. Soon, in fact, the works of Osmyn only were spoken of, and after languishing
a long time unnoticed, he saw himself at once raised to the pinnacle, without having passed
the steps which lead from misery to fortune, from obscurity to glory.

The Caliph desired to see so great a genius, and to possess him at his court. Osmyn was overwhelmed
with favours; he sung the praises of the Caliph with a delicacy that other poets were far from
being able to imitate. The Caliph admired delicate praise the more because it is rare at court.

So much merit and favour besides, soon created the jealousy of other poets, and likewise of
the courtiers. Even those, who had showed themselves the most enthusiastic admirers of Osmyn's
talents, feared to see themselves eclipsed by this new comer, and resolved to destroy the idol
they had raised so much higher than they wished.

One of the poets, Osmyn's enemy, was employed to compose a satire against the Caliph, and it
was agreed that this should be circulated under the favourite's name. From that time the avenger
of the common cause never quitted Osmyn, nor ceased to load him with praises and caresses.

One day when Osmyn delivered an extempore poem before the Caliph, his rival, after having warmly
applauded him, cast down his eyes by accident, and saw shining on the floor one of the pastilles
that Osmyn, who was led away by the vivacity of his declamation, had let fall by mistake. The
traitor snatched it up, and put it mechanically in his mouth.

The pastille produced its effect; the poet felt a sudden inspiration, left the hall and flew
to compose the projected satire. He was surprised at his own aptitude; the verses cost him
no trouble, but flowed of themselves. The bitterest expressions escaped from his pen without
his seeking for them. In short, in an instant, he brought forth a true chef-d'oeuvre of malice.

He continued some moments in ecstacy with his work, and carried it in triumph to his friends--or
rather to his accomplices. The satire was received with the liveliest applause: it was the
pure and vigorous style of Osmyn. The writer had imitated his handwriting; and soon the libel
was spread about in his name.

Murmurs arose on all sides against the ingratitude of Osmyn. The satire fell into the hands
of the Caliph, who in his rage ordered the unfortunate Osmyn to be stript of all his property,
and driven from Bagdad. Osmyn, overpowered by the blow, could not defend himself; besides,
how could he make his innocence heard amidst the cries of his calumniators.

After having wandered a long time, every where imploring pity--sometimes meeting with kindness,
but oftener repulsed with selfishness--he arrived, at nightfall, before a superb country house,
magnificently illuminated. He heard the accents of joy mingled with the sounds of a brilliant
concert of music, and saw all the signs of a splendid fête. However, the thunder began to roll,
the sky was obscured by heavy clouds, and Osmyn's miserable clothing was soon drenched by the rain.

He approached this beautiful house, in hopes to find there, if not hospitality for the night,
at least an asylum for some minutes. The slaves perceived him, and said to him harshly--"What
do you ask, beggar?"

"A humble shelter from the storm, a morsel of bread to appease my hunger, and a little straw
to rest my body on, borne down by fatigue."

"Thou shalt have none of these."

"For pity--"

"Begone!"

"See how it rains!--Hear how it thunders!"

"Go elsewhere, and come not to disturb by thy presence the pleasures of our master."

Osmyn was on the point of obeying this order, when the master of the house, who had witnessed
this scene from a window, came down, called his slaves, and ordered them to receive the unfortunate
man, to procure him clothes, a bed, and all he was in need of. "Misery," said he, "misery is
for him who revels in the presence of the poor, and suffers them to plead for assistance in
vain; and misfortune for the rich who, cloyed with luxuries, refuse a morsel of bread to a
famishing stranger. Poor traveller, go and repose thyself, and may the Prophet send thee refreshing
slumbers, that thou mayst for a time forget thy sufferings."

"Oh Heaven!" cried Osmyn, "what voice strikes my ear? It is the voice--the voice of Zambri!"

"Zambri! what! do you know him?"

"Heavens! do I know him?--Do I know my brother?"

"You my brother!" cried Zambri in his turn. "Can it be? That voice--those features, disfigured
by poverty and misery. Ah! I recognise you, my dear Osmyn!"

No more need be said: he flew to embrace his brother; but Osmyn, overcome by the excess of
his joy, fell senseless at his feet.

He was conveyed into the finest apartment of the villa, every assistance was afforded him,
and he was soon restored. Zambri ordered him magnificent apparel, and taking him by the hand,
conducted him to the banquet, and presented him to his friends. After the repast, Osmyn related
all the vicissitudes of his fortune, his long suffering, his rapid glory, the jealousy and
perfidy of his enemies, "But thou," added he, "my dear Zambri, by what good fortune do I find
you in such an enviable situation? What! this beautiful house, this crowd of slaves, these
sumptuous ornaments!--to what dost thou owe them?"

"To the receipt for preparing Sherbet," said Zambri, smiling. "Listen to my story, it is very
simple. Soon after we parted, I directed my steps towards Teflis, where I sought only to gain
a livelihood. On my arrival, I went into the public places where the opulent people assemble,
to refresh themselves with ices and sherbet. I solicited employment there, but was refused,
and harshly sent away. Not knowing what to do, and not having money to procure a subsistence,
I went at length to one of the obscure cafés, frequented by the lowest people. The master of
this wretched place, who was named Mehdad, agreed to accept my services. I prepared a bottle
of the liquor for which the good genius had given me the receipt, but the ingredients of which,
although cheap, I had not before been able to purchase, and soon I found an immense company
crowding to Mehdad's café. The rich people also would take no other; and Mehdad soon had before
him the prospect of becoming opulent.

"He had a daughter; she was young and beautiful; I became enamoured of her, and ventured to
ask her hand. I had preserved the secret of my receipt. Mehdad was ignorant that he owed his
good fortune to me, and believed that it was through his own talent. He rejected my offer with
disdain, and drove me from his house. Poor fellow! he was not the first who, without knowing
it, had driven good luck from his home.

"I had gained some money in his service; and I employed the fruit of my economy in forming
for myself an establishment in one of the public gardens of Teflis, on the banks of the charming
river Khur. Here I erected a small, but elegant pavilion, and I sold my Sherbet to all the
promenaders of the garden. In a short time Mehdad, and all the cafés of Teflis, were abandoned
for my little pavilion. Zambri's Sherbet was alone in demand: it was spoken of in all companies--it
was taken at all festivals. The garden of Zambri was crowded from morning till night. The multitude
was attracted towards my pavilion like swarms of flies towards a honey-comb. I was compelled
to erect a pavilion ten times larger than the former, and I decorated it magnificently.

"A year had scarcely elapsed before I had acquired a considerable fortune. I quitted my new
establishment, returned to the city, and purchased merchandize of all descriptions. I prepared
a great quantity of this favourite liquor, to which I owe all my wealth. I sent it to all the
cities of Persia, and into the most distant countries. Heaven seemed to smile on my exertions.
A beautiful widow, aged twenty years, saw and loved me; I was not insensible to her charms.
We made mutual vows of attachment, and marriage crowned my happiness.

"We have acquired this charming retreat, and reside here during the most beautiful season of
the year, amongst our good friends, who, in partaking our pleasures, add to them the charms
of their society.

"How many times, dear Osmyn, have my thoughts been occupied with thee! Often have I said, in
the midst of my prosperity, Where is my brother?--where dwells Osmyn? No doubt the invaluable
secret he possesses has gained him an immense fortune, and raised him to the pinnacle of honour.
But I see that in these times happiness, tranquillity, and perhaps riches, are more easily
obtained by humble and modest employment, than by splendid abilities. In the course of my transactions,
I have met with vexations and disappointments. Sometimes my Sherbet has been imitated; but
the fraud has always been discovered, and the intrigues of my rivals have added to my reputation.
At length I have found that it is easier to satisfy the caprice than the judgment of mankind,
and that those who could not understand the merits of a clever work, would readily agree upon
the subject of a delicious and agreeable beverage."

Thus spoke the good Zambri: he strove affectionately to console Osmyn. The two brothers separated
no more; and, thanks to the receipt for preparing Sherbet, they lived long together amidst
the pleasures that wealth commands, and the still more true and solid happiness procured by
peace and friendship.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

BOTANY OF SHAKSPEARE.

At a recent meeting of the Medico-Botanical Society, a very interesting dissertation on the
medicinal plants which occur in the plays of Shakspeare, from the pen of Mr. Rootsay, of Bristol,
was read, and excited considerable attention. The hebenon henbane alluded to in Hamlet, the
mandragora, the various plants so beautifully alluded to in Romeo and Juliet, and in other
dramas, were the subject of the inquiry, and much classical information was displayed by the
ingenious author in the illustration of the subject. We hope to report more respecting this
very interesting paper to our readers.

      *       *       *       *       *

THE CUTTLE-FISH.

The following account of the sepia media, a small species of cuttle-fish, is given by Mr. Donovan,
in his "Excursion through South Wales:"--"When first caught, the eyes, which are large and
prominent, glistened with the lustre of the pearl, or rather of the emerald, whose luminous
transparency they seemed to emulate. The pupil is a fine black, and above each eye is a semilunar
mark of the richest garnet. The body, nearly transparent, or of a pellucid green, is glossed
with all the variety of prismatic tints, and thickly dotted with brown. At almost every effort
of respiration, the little creature tossed its arms in apparent agony, and clung more firmly
to the finger; while the dark-brown spots upon the body alternately faded and revived, diminishing
in size till they were scarcely perceptible, and then appearing again as large as peas, crowding,
and becoming confluent nearly all over the body. At length, the animal being detained too long
from its native element, became enfeebled, the colours faded, the spots decreased in size,
and all its pristine beauty vanished with the last gasp of life."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OSTRICH.

The Ostriches in the Gardens of the Zoological Society would be truly a noble pair, were it
not for an unnatural curve in the neck of the male, in consequence, it is said, of its having
formerly swallowed something more than usually bulky and hard of digestion.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

RUSSIAN BURIAL GROUND.

Mr. James's popular Journal of a Tour in Russia, &c., has supplied the above illustration of
honours paid to the dead in that country. The Cut represents one of the Cemeteries of the government
of Tchernigoff. Mr. James describes it as planted around with trees, and studded thick with
wooden crosses, oratories, and other permanent marks of reverence. The general appearance of
piety with which these grounds are kept up, their sequestered situation apart from any town,
the profound veneration with which they are saluted by the natives, added to the dark and sepulchral
shade of the groves, lend them an interest with which the tinsel ornaments of more gorgeous
cemeteries can in no degree compare.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCESTORS.

Some nations pay particular attention to the memory of their ancestors. The Quojas, a people
of Africa, offer sacrifices of rice and wine to their ancestors, before they undertake any
considerable action; and the anniversaries of their death are always kept by their families
with great solemnity; the king invokes the souls of his father and mother to make trade flourish
and the chase succeed. But the Chinese have distinguished themselves above all other nations,
by the veneration in which they hold their ancestors. Part of the duty, according to the laws
of Confucius, which children owe their parents, consists in worshipping them when dead. They
have a solemn and an ordinary worship for this purpose, the former of which is held twice a
year with great pomp, and is described as follows by an eye witness:--The sacrifices were made
in a chapel, well adorned, where there were six altars, furnished with censers, tapers, and
flowers. There were three ministers, and behind them two young acolites: he that officiated
was an aged man, and a new Christian. The three former went with a profound silence, and made
frequent genuflexions towards the five altars, pouring out wine; afterwards they drew near
to the sixth, and when they came to the foot of the altar, half bowed down, they said their
prayers with a low voice. That being finished, the three ministers went to the altar; the priest
took up a vessel full of wine, and drank; then he lifted up the head of a deer, or goat; after
which, taking fire from the altar, they lighted a bit of paper, and the minister of ceremonies
turning towards the people, said, with a high voice, that he gave them thanks in the name of
their ancestors, for having so well honoured them; and in recompense he promised them, on their
part, a plentiful harvest, a fruitful issue, good health and long life, and all those advantages
which are most pleasing to men.

The Chinese have also in their houses a niche, or hollow place, in which they put the names
of their deceased fathers, to which they make prayers and offerings of perfumes and spices
at certain periods.

A.V.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

HISTORY OF POLAND.

This volume, a goodly octavo, will be peculiarly acceptable at the present season. It presents
a lucid view of Polish history, from the earliest period to the present eventful moment; and,
as a passage of immediate interest, we quote the following character of the President of the
National Government of Poland:

    This illustrious personage, Prince Adam Czartoryski, is the
    eldest son of the late prince of the same house, and is
    descended from the family of Jagellon, the ancient sovereigns of
    Lithuania. His father was long known, not only as a nobleman of
    the first rank in Poland, but as one of the most accomplished
    scholars in Europe. Such was his reputation, that at the period
    of the last vacancy in the throne of Poland, Poniatowski
    (afterwards king) was deputed by the diet to propitiate the
    Empress Catherine, to second the election of Czartoryski; but
    the deputy's handsome form found such favour in the licentious
    eyes of the modern Messalina, that he ceased to urge the suit of
    the diet, and returned the avowed nominee of his imperial
    mistress. Prince Czartoryski's claims on the throne, popularity,
    and consequent influence, rendered him odious to the court of
    St. Petersburg, and when the last act of spoliation was
    perpetrated, his lands were ravaged, his beautiful Castle of
    Pulawy destroyed, and a sentence of extermination pronounced
    against him, unless he would consent to send his two sons, one
    the subject of this notice, and the other Prince Constantino
    Czartoryski, as hostages to St. Petersburg. To avoid this
    wretched alternative, the prince and his princess, who still
    survive, consented to the separation, and the two young
    noblemen, were placed under the eye of those who were deemed
    worthy, by the Autocrat, of reforming their principles. The
    talents displayed by both brothers soon obtained for them the
    admiration of the court; and as it was of great importance to
    gain them over, every mark of imperial favour was heaped upon
    them by the Emperor Alexander, with whom, from infancy, they had
    established terms of the utmost familiarity. The elder brother
    held for a long time the portfolio of the Foreign Office, and,
    in his official capacity, accompanied his imperial master to the
    scenes of some of his most serious disasters. During Napoleon's
    invasion, Prince Constantino was in Poland, and confiding in the
    integrity of the then master of the destinies of Europe, and
    breathing naught but freedom for his country, he joined the
    banners of the invader, and raised a regiment at his own expense
    to aid in the cause of liberation. At Smolensk he received a
    severe wound, from the effects of which he has never yet
    recovered. He resides at Vienna.

    The influence of Prince Adam Czartoryski proved to be singularly
    useful to Poland after the downfall of Napoleon. He interposed,
    and interposed successfully, between the anger of Alexander and
    his suffering country; and, on the establishment of the kingdom
    of Poland, was appointed the curator of all the universities,
    both there and in the incorporated provinces. These duties he
    sedulously discharged, until he was superseded by the notorious
    Count Novozilzoff. From this period he has lived in retirement,
    faithfully performing all the duties of private life. The
    promotion of agriculture, science in all its branches, and
    kindly offices among mankind, constituted his occupations until
    recent events drew him from his privacy. The first call was made
    by the Russian functionaries, as stated in the text, for the
    purpose of self-protection! the second was that of his devoted
    country, when a government was essential to success. He was
    chosen not only one of the five members of the executive body,
    but its president, a station which he still honourably fills.
    Into his new office he has carried all the unostentatious and
    disinterested virtues that adorned Pulawy, and there is little
    doubt that if (and no one suspects that such will not be the
    case) the independence of Poland be fairly won, the choice of
    his country will point to him as its sovereign. Having finished
    his academical career at the University of Edinburgh, he early
    acquired a strong taste for English institutions and for
    Englishmen, and of this he gave substantial proof by devoting
    250 l. a-year to the exclusive purchase of English books. His
    revenues are enormous; but his liberality is unbounded; and, as
    it is a rule in his munificent establishment to provide
    liberally for the families of all his dependants, his means are
    comparatively restricted, but his personal wants are few; and
    that he is ready to accommodate himself to circumstances, was
    well shown by his only observation on hearing of the
    confiscation of his large property in Podolia by Nicholas.
    "Instead of riding, I must walk, and instead of sumptuous fare,
    I must dine on buck-wheat."[3] Such is a faint outline of this
    illustrious man's character. Were it only for the admirable
    example of such an individual guiding the reigns of the
    government of a devoted people, it is most ardently to be hoped
    that Poland may triumph over her enemies, and be raised to that
    rank from which she was degraded only by the basest of
    treasons.--Fletcher's History of Poland.

    [3] The common food of the poor.

