In the same collection is a curious ornament, in the shape of an elephant, of massive gold,
standing on a pedestal formed of enormous pearls placed side by side. There is also a table,
thickly inlaid with Oriental topazes, presented by the Empress Catherine of Russia to the Vizier
Baltadji Mustapha, together with a very remarkable collection of ancient costumes, trimmed
with rare furs, and literally covered with precious stones. The divans and cushions, formerly
in the throne-room of the Sultans, are gorgeous; the stuff of which the cushions are made is
pure tissue of gold, without any mixture of silk whatever, and is embroidered with pearls,
weighing about thirty-six hundred drachmas. Children's cradles of solid gold, inlaid with precious
stones; vases of immense value in rock-crystal, gold, and silver, incrusted with rubies, emeralds,
and diamonds; daggers, swords, and shields, beautifully wrought and richly jewelled--all tell
a story of ancient grandeur and wealth, when the Ottoman power was a reality, and Western Europe
trembled before the descendant of the son of Amurath.

Notwithstanding these jewelled riches of Turkey, however, they are surpassed by the splendor
of the Shah of Persia's treasury, the contents of which have accumulated in successive periods.

Nadir Shah of Persia, in the first half of the eighteenth century, amassed enormous riches
by the spoils of war. He is said to have had a tent made so magnificent and costly as to appear
almost fabulous.

It would be impossible to describe in a short article the splendor of the Persian treasury.
One extraordinary object may be mentioned: a two-foot globe covered with jewels from the north
pole to the extremities of the tripod on which the gemmed sphere is placed. His Majesty had
coats embroidered with diamonds and emeralds, rubies, pearls, and garnets; he had jewelled
swords and daggers without number; so because he did not know what else to do with the rest
of his jewels, he ordered the globe to be constructed, and covered with gems; the overspreading
sea to be of emeralds, and the kingdoms of the world to be distinguished by jewels of different
color.

WINGED FREEBOOTERS.

The great goshawk, a bird in a coat of blackish-brown covered with blotches of black and reddish-white,
is a terrible enemy to wild rabbits, hares, and squirrels, and to all the small feathered inhabitants
of field and forest. It is about two feet long, and although it is not a bird of very rapid
flight, its cunning and strength are such that its prey rarely escapes. Should the terrified
hare hide itself in some thicket, the goshawk patiently perches on an elevated branch near
at hand, where it will wait hours, motionless, until the poor hare, thinking its enemy departed,
ventures from its retreat, when in an instant it is swooped down upon, and struck dying to
the ground.

Goshawks are found in the Middle and Western States during the autumn and winter. In the summer
they go far to the northward to rear their young. They build a large nest of twigs and coarse
grasses on some lofty branch of a tree, and lay three or four eggs of dull bluish-white slightly
spotted with reddish-brown.

These savage birds are very common in Maine, where they make great havoc among the flocks of
wild-ducks and Canada grouse, and will even, when driven by hunger, venture an attack on the
fowls of the farm-yard. Its sharp eye always gleaming and on the alert, the goshawk sweeps
over fields and woods, changing its course in an instant by a slight movement of its rudder-like
tail whenever any desired prey is sighted. It is the most restless of birds, and is almost
constantly on the wing, seldom alighting except for breakfast and dinner.

Audubon relates a curious instance of sagacity in a goshawk, which he himself witnessed. A
large flock of blackbirds flying over a pond were pursued by one of these birds, which, dashing
into the flock, seized one after the other of the poor little victims, apparently squeezing
each one with its powerful talons, and then allowing it to drop on the surface of the water.
Five or six had been captured before the fleeing blackbirds gained the shelter of a thick forest.
The goshawk then swept leisurely back, and with graceful curves descended to the pond and collected
its victims, taking the dead birds one by one and carrying them away as if laying up a store
for its evening meal.

Instances have been known where this bird has itself fallen a victim to its own designs. Dead
goshawks have been found with their talons hopelessly entangled in thorn and furze bushes,
upon which they had pounced with the object of seizing some little rabbit or squirrel which
had sought shelter beneath the undergrowth. A hunter once witnessed such an occurrence, the
rabbit scampering away in safety across the field, while the great bird remained entangled
in the bush. The hunter forbore to shoot at the little rabbit which had made so fortunate an
escape, and killed the wicked bird of prey instead.

Goshawks are found in nearly every portion of Europe, and have sometimes been trained to assist
in hunting; but as they are more ferocious than the falcon, they are less easily controlled,
and are always on the watch to regain their liberty.

A smaller variety of the great hawk family, but one spreading equal terror among small birds,
is the sparrow-hawk--a bold, provoking bird, with dark brown back and wings, and breast of
rusty brown or grayish-white crossed by narrow bars of a darker tint. The sparrow-hawk feeds
mostly upon small birds, but it will also catch moles, field-mice, and even grasshoppers. It
flies low, skimming along but a few feet from the ground, its sharp little eyes always on the
watch for prey.

When tamed, the sparrow-hawk becomes affectionate toward its owner, but will rarely accept
civilities from any other person. One of these birds, which had been tamed by a lady, was accustomed
to perch on the shoulder of its mistress, and eat from her hand. It was intensely jealous,
and would fly savagely at any one to whom its mistress showed the least favor. This particular
pet proved as troublesome as a thieving cat, for was any fine fat chicken or partridge left
lying on the kitchen table, if the cook's back was turned for a moment, the prize was either
mangled or borne away to a hiding-place by the mischievous bird.

The sparrow-hawk is not a nest-builder, but will usurp the nest of the crow or some other large
bird. If a deserted nest can be found, the sparrow-hawk will immediately take possession; but
if no such presents itself, this bad-hearted, quarrelsome bird does not hesitate to depose
the rightful owner, and proceed to occupy a home to which it has neither right nor title.

The sparrow-hawk, the malicious hen-hawk, and cruel pigeon-hawk, are very common throughout
the United States and Europe.

UNCLE PHIL'S THIMBLE.

BY ELINOR ELLIOTT.

"A rag-picker!"

"That's just what I am," sighed a poor girl who stood at one of the long tables in the rag-room
of a large paper-mill. Down each side the table stood a row of girls, some older, some younger,
than herself, all miserably clothed, and all with worn, pinched faces.

These girls came each day to their work with an eager look in their eyes, which burned brightly
in the morning, flickered fitfully through the day, and faded out at night, leaving the patient,
tired look which want and hunger and disappointment bring, and which is always ready to take
courage and look forward once more; for in a pile of rags there sometimes lay a treasure--an
odd penny, an old knife, a pair of scissors--something that might be taken to the little pawn
shop round the corner and sold.

A little while ago a girl--a lucky girl--had a "find," a bright silver quarter. Her good luck
had been whispered up and down the row, but no one betrayed her fortune. When the overseer
came through the room, no exultant look nor envious glance suggested anything unusual, for
this band of "rag-pickers" had its honor, which it held to as closely as the most compact trades-union
in the land.

To some of the girls the thought sometimes came, "Is what we find really ours?" but long generations
of workers in the mill had appropriated these "finds," and it had become a custom if not a right.

To-day Nance, at the head of the table, felt a keener longing than usual to secure something.
She had never felt the utter dreariness of her loneliness and poverty so strongly as she had
in the last bright Christmas season, which had been to her only a vision; not the sweet reality
that it becomes to us, who bring it close to us in happy anticipation weeks before it really
comes, who live in its light and peace and cheer, in its sweet givings and receivings, and
keep its memory with us throughout the year.

For a whole year Nance had been at work in the mill, and had had nothing but her regular five-cent
salary. Now her long nervous fingers ran rapidly through the pieces, making four divisions,
as she called; "Linen, cotton, woollen, silk--linen, cotton, woollen, silk," and the different
bits dropped into their proper piles like falling leaves; while the girl on her right took
the cottons, and assorted them, and the girl on her left went through the woollens in the same
way, and a girl further on took the silks.

A stranger was always amused to watch the long rows of quiet bodies, nimble fingers, and moving
lips, and to hear the half-whispered counting and calling of colors as they divided the pieces.

To-day Nance had a bag to pick from. Here lay her chance. The girls who took the rags from
the bags were the most apt to find treasures, and their turn came only once a month.

She was fast nearing the bottom of the last bag. Every time she thrust her hand in, her heart
beat fast, and she thought, "Shall I keep it, if I find anything?"

Once more, and her hand touches something cold; her fingers close round it, and she draws it
out. Her head swims, she clutches the table with her other hand to keep from falling--perhaps,
after all, it is only a button. She collects herself, and peeps slyly into her hand.

A gold thimble!

No one has seen it, no one knows, and Nance slips it into her pocket, and goes on with her
work; but somehow it doesn't run smoothly. It is "Silk, cotton, woollen, linen," and then "Cotton,
woollen, linen, silk," and the girls find fault because the piles are "mixed," and then the
bell rings, and they are free for to-day.

Cautiously Nance makes inquiries about the "finds." How much did they sell things for, if they
found any?

"My aunt," said one girl, "onst foun' a gol' ring, an' the jew'ler give her a dollar for 't."

"He melted it down," explained another. "They allus does that. He told me one day that if ever
I found a gold breas'pin or a bracelet, 'which 'tain't noways likely you will,' sez he, 'fetch
it to me, an' I'll give you what's right for it.'"

So Nance's "find" was really worth money. More money, too, than she could earn in many days'
steady toil. What would it not buy! Food, clothing, warmth, everything, seemed within her reach
now that she held that source of wealth in her hand.

"'Tain't stealin', I hope," thought Nance. "Course not. I don' know who it belongs to."

When alone, Nance took out the thimble. What a dainty little thing it was! She tried it on
each of her hard, bony fingers, and laughed to see the poor grimy things wearing a golden crown.

Why, there were letters on it!

"Reel writin'!" cried Nance, as she paused under a street lamp to spell the word by its light.

"Onst I could read writin'. That first mus' be a capertin--that's what they call them big fellers
that stands first--a kin' of a Gennyrel with his soljers. Oh! I don' know the capertins--never
got acquainted when I went to school; common letters was good enough for me.

"That tall one, that's l, an' there's round o, then r, an' then i with a dot. L-o lo, r-i ri,
lori; m, e, an' then another tall l on the end--that's m-e-l mel, lorimel. Now what's the capertin's
name?--lorimel, lorimel; I've heerd that name some'eres. Why, it's her that came that day mother
lay a-dyin' an' spoke so soft like; an' the gennelman with her he called her 'lorimel'--no
that warn't it--Florimel, Florimel, that's the name!

"Tain't yourn now, Nance. You know where it belongs. You ain't got no right to it now."

And then came other thoughts.

"What's a gold thimble to her? She can buy all she wants--gold thimbles, and gold scissors,
and gold needles; and sit in a gold chair, and sew on a gold gown. She hadn't no business leavin'
a gold thimble in a rag bag. Them that's careless has to pay for it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The curtains were drawn in an elegant house on the Avenue. A bright fire burned in the grate,
throwing a warm glow on the delicate walls, the beautiful pictures, and the snowy marble statues,
and reflecting itself in the long mirrors, seemed, as it sparkled and glowed, the only thing
of life in the room; for the young girl who lay back in the luxurious depths of the large chair
by the hearth, with her fair hands lying listlessly in her lap, was as white and motionless
as the statues around her.

Now and then her lip quivered, and an occasional tear stole from under her long lashes, but
she did not look up till a gentleman entered the room. Then she sprang into his arms, and sobbed
out, in reply to his question of how she had spent the day,

"I've been perfectly miserable, papa. I've lost my thimble--the thimble Uncle Phil gave me.
I'd give everything in the world to see it again."

"Why, my dear little girl, that would hardly be worth while, when you can get another for a
few dollars. We'll go to-morrow and buy the prettiest--"

"Ah! papa, you don't understand. All the money in the world can't buy a thimble to take the
place of the one Uncle Phil gave me. It was the last thing he ever bought."

"Was it, darling?"

"Yes; and he said that morning, 'Florimel, can you sew pretty well?' and I laughed, and said,
'Of course not, Uncle Phil; what's the need of my sewing?' 'Great need, great need, little
niece,' he said. 'Sewing is woman's most womanly work, and though you may never need to sew
for yourself, if you knew how, you might teach hundreds of poor girls to sew and clothe themselves
and their families.'"

"My little daughter teaching a sewing-school! How funny it would be!"

"So that afternoon we went into Shreve's and selected one, and had my name engraved on it;
and that night Uncle Phil was taken ill. So of course I feel badly, papa; don't you see why?"

"Yes, Florimel; but perhaps we shall find this thimble. Have you had Janet search for it?"

"Indeed I have, all day long. I had it yesterday at work on my Kensington, and think Janet
must have taken it up among the bits of worsted when she put them into the scrap bag; and Ann
sold all the scraps last night to the ragman. Oh dear! I shall never see it again."

"Hif you please, sir," said Jacobs, appearing in the doorway, "there's a vagrant at the basement
door. Three times hi've sent 'er away, han' three times she 'as returned, hevery time hasking
for Miss Florimel, han' sayin' she must see 'er."

"To see me? At the basement door? How strange!" and Florimel forgot her tears in her eagerness
to see what the poor child at the door could want.

Her papa hurried down stairs after her, and saw her face radiant with joy as she held in her
hand a gold thimble, while a scantily clothed girl stood beside her awkwardly twisting the
corner of her shabby shawl.

"Oh, papa! this girl Nancy found my thimble among some rags, and brought it back to me. Oh,
what can I do for her, papa?"

"How did you know whose the thimble was, my child?"

"I warn't sure, sir," faltered Nance, whose honor had outweighed her longing for money and
the comfort it would bring, and had brought her through the long city to seek the rightful
owner of the thimble--"I warn't sure; but I knew her name, for herself an' a gennelman came
onst to see mother long ago."

"That was Uncle Phil," said Florimel. "He used often to take me when he went to visit the poor.
But how did you know where I lived?"'

"I knew the house, 'cause he told me to come here onst for some soup for mother, an' I came
an' got it."

"How is your mother now?"

"She's dead, miss," sobbed Nance.

"And so is Uncle Phil;" and the two girls--the one so fair and beautiful and carefully guarded,
the other so pale and pinched and friendless--forgot for a moment all but their sorrow, their
longing for the dear dead faces they could never see again.

But Florimel's papa called Janet to see that Nancy was warmed and fed after her long cold walk,
and took Florimel into the library to see what they really could do for this poor but honest girl.

Florimel at first insisted upon having her for her own little maid, but her papa convinced
her that Nancy was too ignorant for such a position; and they finally decided that the best
thing to do for her would be to give her a good home, where she could learn to do all kinds
of nice work, and could also go to school.

"Why, papa, I know the very place for Nancy. Nurse Susan lives all alone, now her niece has
gone out to service, and Nancy could live with her."

"That is a very bright thought, little daughter. It would be a comfort to Susan to have a young
girl with her, and the money we should pay for Nancy's board would lighten her expenses. Let
us send now for Nancy, and see if she likes the idea."

Did Nance like the idea?

Did she like to think she need never go back to the bustling, dusty mill; that she need not
go again to that miserable tenement-house which she called home, where she shared one tiny
room with seven other girls; that she need not know again what it was to battle with hunger
and cold? Did she like to feel that she should have a home in the sweet fresh country; that
her work should be in a garden, in a dairy, in a neat little cottage; that clothing, food,
and the learning to be a good woman would lie within her reach?

LIFE ON BOARD A TRAINING-SHIP.

Training-ships, on board which boys are taught to become first-rate seamen, form an important
portion of every navy; and in the accompanying sketches our artist has endeavored to convey
correct ideas of the daily life of these boys to those of our readers who live far inland,
are not familiar with ships and sailors, and who perhaps have never seen the sea.

The first sketch is one showing the boys undergoing a part of their sail drill, and engaged
in furling the mizzen top-gallant-sail and royal. The sails of a man-of-war are furled and
stowed with the utmost care and precision, so that the ends of the yard look exactly alike,
and sometimes the boys have to do their work over and over again before the critical eye of
the officer watching them is satisfied. In storms, when the great ship rolls so that the yard-arms
sometimes touch the water, lying out on them and furling sails is very difficult and dangerous
work, and it is only on account of the constant drill they have received during fair weather
that the boys are able to accomplish the task under these circumstances.

Above all things, on these training-ships the boys are obliged to keep themselves neat and
clean. They are expected to bathe frequently, and are always compelled to do so on Sunday.
The bath-room, provided with tubs, basins, and a plentiful supply of water, is located in the
bows, in the extreme forward part of the ship.

Generally amidships, but sometimes in the stern of the ship, is the school-room; for sailor
boys have other things to learn besides the practical sailing of a ship. In this school-room
the young sailors spend four or five hours of each day, and are taught reading, writing, arithmetic,
history, geography, and grammar.

At noon, or eight bells, as they say on shipboard, the bugles sound the dinner call, and from
all parts of the ship the boys tumble down the hatchways to the berth-deck, where is a long
row of short tables swung from the ceiling, and where the young sailors eat the bountiful dinner
provided for them as only healthy, hearty boys can eat.

The fourth or lowest deck of the ship is called the "orlop deck," and it is here that the boys
stow away their muskets and cutlasses after drill. On this deck also the boys receive at four
bells, or six o'clock in the evening, the allowance of bread and molasses, or treacle, that
composes their regular supper.

Next to the sail drill, perhaps the most important is the gun drill, or practice with the heavy
guns. This gun drill is not important merely because the guns are to be used in case of a fight,
but because they are also used in the firing of salutes. These salutes must be fired whenever
another man-of-war comes into port or a distinguished officer comes on board, on national holidays,
and at many other times; therefore it is very important that the boys should be familiar with
the great guns. Each gun has its crew, each one of whom has an especial duty to perform. The
long cord that the boy in the last picture holds in his hand is called a lanyard; and as he
pulls it with a smart jerk, a hammer falls on the breech of the gun, and with a roar that shakes
the ship, the great gun is fired.

  SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.

     I am twelve years old, and go to the Lincoln School. It is so
     called because it has a statue of Abraham Lincoln in front of it.
     It was built in 1864, has over twelve hundred pupils enrolled, and
     I think it is the best school in the city. I have been making vases
     out of Farallon eggs to send East to my cousins. The eggs come from
     the Farallon Islands, twenty-one miles outside of the Golden Gate.
     They are of a blue color, and have marks on them that look like
     hieroglyphics. The birds that lay them are a species of gull. I was
     born in San Francisco, and have lived here most of my life. Four
     years I spent up in the mountains on a farm, or ranch, as they call
     it here.

  CHARLES W. S.

Farallon, the name of these islands near the entrance to San Francisco Bay, is a Spanish word
signifying a small pointed islet in the ocean. The islands, of which there are six, are so
called because they consist of rugged towering peaks of granite! A more desolate place could
not well be imagined. There is nearly always a fierce wind blowing, and the waves dash wildly
into the numerous spouting caves along the rocky coast. There is a light-house here three hundred
and sixty feet above the sea, and its keepers are the only human inhabitants of the desolate
sea-bound rock; but thousands of sea-lions congregate upon the cliffs, and vast numbers of
gulls and wild rabbits make their home there. During the egging season men visit the islands,
and gather thousands of eggs for the San Francisco market. A very interesting account of these
islands, is given in Mr. Nordhoff's book on Northern California, Oregon, and the Sandwich Islands.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FORT ASSINIBOINE, MONTANA TERRITORY.

     I am always glad to see YOUNG PEOPLE come with papa's mail. Out
     here in the wilderness we do not often see nice papers; but then we
     see what city people never see--plenty of Indians. Many of them are
     very poor, and so hungry that they pick bread and scraps of meat
     out of the swill barrels to eat--old stuff that the soldiers have
     thrown away. I think people should send the poor Indians something
     to eat. I send you a picture of some Indians as they look hunting
     for food this cold day. I am only nine years old, and can not draw
     very good pictures.

  BERTIE BROWN.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

     I have a canary, which is the only live pet I ever had. It was
     eight months old the 17th of February. I plant canary-seed, and let
     it grow until it is about two inches high, and then I give it to my
     canary. It likes to eat it very much.

  LOUIE E. WARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I live way off in Washington Territory, and thought I would tell
     you something about this distant country. We live near the Simcoe
     Mountains. They are covered with evergreen pines. We can see the
     snow-capped mountains every day in the year--Mounts Jefferson,
     Hood, St. Helen's, and Adams. It snows here sometimes in winter,
     but the wind comes up from the sea, and takes it away in a few
     days. I do not live near any school, but I study and recite my
     lessons at home. Six miles away, at the new town of Goldendale,
     there is an academy, and they are teaching in it now. I am ten
     years old, and was born in this country. Sometimes troops of
     Indians come riding past on their spotted ponies. They bring salmon
     from the Columbia River, huckleberries from the mountains, and now
     and then ponies to sell. I am very fond of reading, and am
     delighted with YOUNG PEOPLE. I read every word in it.

  GERTRUDE BALCH.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HECKATOO, ARKANSAS.

     I am a little girl eight years old. I take YOUNG PEOPLE, and like
     it very much. I have a doll named Laura Martin. I live on a cotton
     plantation on the Arkansas River, and I can stand on the front
     gallery of our house and see all the boats that pass. We have never
     been to school, and we have no governess now, so mamma has to teach
     us. We have a great many pecan-nut trees here, and there is a pond
     near our house with a boat on it, and my sister and I row
     sometimes.

  CYNTHIA R. SMITH.

       *       *       *       *       *

  UTICA, NEW YORK.

     I am six years old. My birthday was the 18th of January, and mamma
     gave me a little party. We had a nice time, and sat down to tea all
     by ourselves, without any grown people. I have two birdies; they
     will put their little heads clear out of the cage, and take seeds
     from my mouth. Sometimes they nip my tongue, and one birdie will
     fly out right into the cup I keep seed in. I taught them to eat in
     that way by not letting them have anything until they would take
     it.

  BESSIE L. CARTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Papa brought me the numbers of YOUNG PEOPLE a few days ago. I had
     been waiting anxiously for them, and I was so delighted when he
     gave them to me. I have known all about Harpers' publications for a
     long time. Mamma says that papa took HARPER'S MAGAZINE long ago,
     before the war. I like the stories, letter-box, and puzzles in
     YOUNG PEOPLE very much, and I have succeeded in getting answers to
     some of the puzzles. My pets are cats and dogs, and I would like to
     get a parrot. Alabama was my native place, but now I live in
     Maryland.

  LIDIE B. DUKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

  RUSSELVILLE, ARKANSAS.

     I thought you might like to know about "Dr. Pruitt's boys," so I
     concluded to write you a letter. I am Will, aged twelve; then there
     are Fred, Edward, and Charley. Papa takes HARPER'S MONTHLY, and
     mamma takes the BAZAR, and when YOUNG PEOPLE was advertised papa
     proposed that each of us give something and take that too. We four
     boys earned just one hundred dollars picking cotton last fall, so
     we all contributed. We like the paper very much, and watch for its
     coming; and we read everything in it.

  WILL E. PRUITT.

       *       *       *       *       *

  GRAND ISLAND, NEBRASKA.

     I am ten years old. My uncle takes YOUNG PEOPLE for me, and I can
     hardly wait until it comes. I have got the elephant on his four
     legs, and he looks well. I have a little prairie-dog named Jenny.
     It lives in a hole in the yard, where I think it must have a good
     nest, for I gave it lots of rags last fall to put in the hole. It
     comes to the house almost every day to get something to eat, and
     seems glad to see us. I have also a little dog named Frisk, only I
     sold one-half interest in him yesterday for twenty-five cents to a
     doctor who lives next door. He wanted him for his baby to play
     with. Can you tell me what kind of a place a junk-shop is?

  HARRY K. HEFFLEMAN.

A junk-shop is where old ropes, old anchors, old iron, and cast-off odds and ends of all kinds
are kept for sale. There are many such shops to be found in every large city, and if it is
a seaport, they are generally located near the waterfront, as a vast quantity of such rubbish
is picked up along the wharves. In New York city junk dealers drive wagons round the streets,
and buy old stoves or any worn-out household goods.

       *       *       *       *       *

  LONOKE, ARKANSAS.

     I found in mamma's front yard, near a brick wall, a little pansy,
     which I send you. It bloomed out the 29th of January.

  SARAH F. S.

It was fortunate for the little pansy that it was picked and pressed, for Katie Black writes,
also from Arkansas: "There was a very pretty snow-storm here on the 2d of February. It began
in the morning, and snowed all day."

       *       *       *       *       *

WARD A. P.--Your puzzle is neatly done, but as we have already published one having the same
solution, we can not use it.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA.

     Can you tell me what five words in the English language end in
     "cion"?

  S. R. W.

Can any correspondent answer this question?

       *       *       *       *       *

J. R. B.--Jupiter will be evening star until March 15, morning star until October 6. Mars will
be evening star until October 25. Saturn will be evening star until April 7, morning star until
October 18. Venus will be morning star until July 13, evening star the rest of the year.

       *       *       *       *       *

KATE.--You may write us any interesting things you know about prairie-dogs in Kansas.

       *       *       *       *       *

"JONATHAN."--You will find brief accounts of the ancient Roman road-builders in any history
of Rome, also in Appleton's Encyclopedia under "Roads." Lemprière's Classical Dictionary also
contains much information, especially of the Appia Via.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAE W. T.--"The Youthful Philomathesians" would be a pretty name for your literary society.
Philomathesian is a Greek word signifying loving to learn, or lover of knowledge.

       *       *       *       *       *

WALTER S. DODGE.--The picture on the first page of YOUNG PEOPLE No. 14 is a fac-simile of a
pencil drawing reproduced by a photographic process.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very neat "Wiggles" are received from R. V. R., Hattie Strong, and F. B. Myers, which we regret
being unable to publish.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOUISE S.--You write so prettily that we are sorry your enigma is not good enough to print.
Do not be discouraged. Try again, and the next time see if you can not make rhymes.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN F. S.--Persevere with your locomotive-engine drawing, and some day you may be able to
put it to good use. Engines and machinery of all kinds are good things for a boy to become
familiar with, and if you are really fond of them cultivate your inclination all you can.

       *       *       *       *       *

Netta Franklin, Freddie C., Emma S., Pussy K., and Robbie V. R. are very youthful correspondents
who favor us with letters printed with remarkable neatness. May R. also writes a very legible
"Wiggle." When you learn to print, little girl, write again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Acknowledgments for favors are due to C. Fannie Anderson, William F. B., John T. I., Perceval
Hill, Frank Yarington, Angie T. Tenny, Florence G., Istalina Beach, George P. R., Orie Maude,
Albert A., Mary Buchanan, Jennie E. Anderson, Myrtle Gilman, Alice M. S., Minta Holman, Mary
F. W., Walter Jennings, Locke S., Sue Dawson, Ida S., Annie Black, Freddie L., Minnie Parker,
Della L. Grimshaw, Bert Wellman, Eliza E. Crowell, Clarence C. Culver, Ada R., Ida M. C., Mary
Landon S., Arthur D. Miller, Eddie Carnes, Bertha B. H., Daisy J. M., Katie Bouck, W. C. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Correct answers to puzzles received from Effie K. T., P. S. Heffleman, C. F. Langdon, Louise
Swift, Maude K. Smith, E. and M. D., Florence Schaffenburg, H. M. H., J. H. Merrick, Harry
E. Sears, Lewis K. Davis, M. Barton, P. Karberg, "the Boys, Bessie, Mamma, and I," Katie W.,
Harry S., Pussy Kellogg.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 14.

The following solution to "A Latin Word Square," on page 155, is from a correspondent in Pennsylvania:

  R O M A
  O L I M
  M I L O
  A M O R

  The square is made of magic spells
    That speak of Horace and of Homer;
  The third the glory that was Greece,
    The first the grandeur that was Roma.

      Tales of eating and of drinking,
      And of falling roofs upholden,
            Call up Milo;
      Milo backward murmurs Olim,
      These, all these, were in the olden
            Time long ago.

  Lo! in yon brilliant window niche
    My fourth--how statue-like he stands!
    His bow and arrow in his hands,
  Ah, Amor, from the regions which
        Are Holy Lands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Answer to "Throwing Light," on page 168--"Draught, draft."

       *       *       *       *       *

We have received numerous answers to the Puzzle Picture on page 168, which are correct with
the exception that more beasts are there than any one has yet discovered. A great many little
folks have found seven. Only one has found eight. There are nine concealed in the picture,
and we give one more week in which to hunt for them before publishing the answer.

THE FIRE-FLY GAME.

