It has been stated to me by dealers that the tar coating does away with the necessity of any
such test as the oil; while I am not prepared to acknowledge or deny the statement, it is well
known that much poor pipe is tar-coated and sold in the market as good, and when coated it
is almost impossible to detect any but very defective work.

The price customers are obliged to pay for soil pipe, either "heavy" or "extra heavy," is very
high indeed, even taking off the discounts, and amounts (as I figure it) to $70 per long ton
for 4" pipe. The present rate for the best water pipe of the same caliber is about $38 (now
$29) per long ton, and the additional charge for soil pipe should guarantee the very best iron
in the market, though it appears to be rarely furnished.

It is asserted that all soil pipe is tested to a 50-pound water pressure. I beg leave to question
the absolute truth of this, unless it be acknowledged that pipe is sold indiscriminately, whether
it bears the test or not, for more than once I have found a single length of soil pipe (5 feet)
that could not bear the pressure of a column of water of its own height without leaking.

Having obtained a satisfactory lot of soil pipe and fittings, the next trouble comes with the
lead calking. Unfortunately, it is frequently found that very shallow joints are made instead
of deep ones, and hard lead used instead of soft. My rule is, soft lead, two runnings and two
calkings. By soft lead I mean pig lead, and by hard lead I mean old pipe and scrap lead that
may have been melted a dozen times. Incidentally it may be remarked that it is quite difficult
to calk a tight joint on the heavy pipe; the process will crack the hub.

The fixtures used in a house are of minor importance--there are dozens of good patterns of
every class. If they are carefully put in, and provided with suitable traps placed just as
close to the fixture as possible, the result will usually be satisfactory.

Very few instances occur where traps are placed as close to the fixtures they serve as they
might be, and yet a very short length of untrapped pipe, when fouled, will sometimes smell
dreadfully. A set bowl with trap two feet away may become in time a great nuisance if not properly
used. A case in point where the fixture was used both as a bowl and a urinal was in a few months
exceedingly offensive--a fact largely (though not wholly) due to its double service.

I have never met two sanitarians who agreed upon the same water-closets, bowls, faucets, traps,
etc.

Of course, the soil pipe will be carried, of full size, through the roof, and sufficiently
high to clear all windows.

Avoid multiplicity of fixtures or pipes; cut off all fixtures not used at least twice a week,
lest their traps dry out; have all plumbing as simple as possible, and try and get it all located
so that outside air can be got directly into all closets and bath-rooms. As far as possible,
set your fixtures in glass rather than tiles or wood. Carry the lower end of the main drain
at least five feet beyond the cellar walls of the building, of cast iron.

Let us now look at the outside work. The main drain (carrying everything except the kitchen
and pantry sinks) goes through a ventilated running trap. An indirect fresh air inlet is provided
on the house side of the trap (example), to prevent annoyance from puffing or pumping, or,
better still, a pipe corresponding to the soil pipe is carried up on the outside of the house.

The running trap ventilator should be of the same diameter as the main drain (4 inch), and
serve as a main drain vent also. Carry this pipe on the outside of the house as high as the
top of the chimney.

A grease-trap should be provided for the kitchen and pantry sinks. Formerly my custom was to
put in brick receptacles; it is now to put in Portland cement traps (Henderson pattern), though
perhaps I may succeed in devising a cast-iron one that will answer better. The brick ones were
occasionally heaved by the frost, and cracked; the Portland cement ones answer better, and
when thoroughly painted with red lead do not soak an appreciable quantity of sewage to be offensive,
but are too high priced ($28 each). I have made one or two patterns for cast-iron ones, but
none as yet that I feel satisfied with.

Beyond the running trap an Akron pipe should convey the sewage to a tank or cesspool.

Our supposable case is the second most difficult to take care of. The worst would be ledge.
We have to contend with, however, hard, wet, impervious clay.

The best way undoubtedly is to underdrain the land, and then to distribute the sewage on the
principle of intermittent downward filtration. This is rather expensive, and a customer is
rarely willing to pay the bills for the same. I should always advise it as the best; but where
not allowed to do so, I have had fair success with shallow French drains connecting with the
tank or cesspool.

Siphon tanks, such as are advised by many sanitarians, that were used first in this country,
I believe, by Mr. Waring, I have not been very successful with. Obstructions get into the siphon
and stop it up, or it gets choked with grease. I prefer a tight tank, provided with a tell-tale,
and that is to be opened either by a valve operated by hand, or that is arranged with a standing
overflow like a bath tub, and that can be raised and secured by a hook.

Thus saith the poet, and forthwith turns the world over into the hands of the cook. And into
what better hands could you fall? To you, my fat, jolly, four-meals-a-day friend, Mr. Gourmand,
but more especially to you, my somber, lean, dyspeptic, two-meals-a-day friend, Mr. Grumbler,
the cook is indeed a valuable friend. The cook wields a scepter that is only second in power
to that of love; and even love has become soured through the evil instrumentality of the good-looking
or bad-cooking cook. This is no jest, it is a very sad fact.

Now, the question arises, how can the cook preserve the health of her patrons, maintain happiness
in the family, and yet not throw the gourmands into bankruptcy? Very simple, I assure you.

1. You must have the cook. I mean by this, that not every one can occupy that important office.
The greatest consideration in the qualities of a cook is, does she like the work? No one can
fulfill the duties of any noteworthy office unless he labors at them with vim and willingness.

2. You must have good articles of food originally.

3. As our honest Iago said, "You must have change."

When one arrives at adult age, he should have learned by experience what articles of food do,
and what articles of food do not, agree with him, and to shun the latter, no matter how daintily
served or how tempting the circumstances. The man who knows that pates de foie gras, or the
livers of abnormally fattened geese, disagree with him, and still eats them, is not to be pitied
when all the horrors of dyspepsia overtake him.

The cooking of any article of food has evidently much, very much, to do with its digestibility.
It is not the purpose of this paper to teach cooking, but merely to give some general hints
as to the best as well as the simplest methods of preparing staple articles of food. The same
articles of food can and should be prepared differently on each day of the week. Changes of
diet are too likely to be underestimated. By constant change the digestive organs in the average
person are prevented from having that repulsion of food which, to a greater or less extent,
is likely to result from a sameness of diet continued for a long time.

We often hear from our scientific men that this or that article of food is excellent for muscle,
another for brain, another for bone, etc., etc. Now, stubborn facts are like stone walls, against
which theories often butt out their beauty and their power. It is well known to almost every
one nowadays that well-cooked food, whether it be potatoes, meat and bread, fish, or anything
else worthy the name of food, will well maintain, indefinitely, either the philosopher or the
hodcarrier.

Many of you know, and all of you ought to know, that the principal ingredients of nearly all
our foods are starch and albumen. Starch is the principal nutritive ingredient of vegetables
and breadstuffs. Albumen is the principal ingredient of meats, eggs, milk, and other animal
derivatives.

Starch never enters the system as starch, but must first be converted into sugar either in
the body or out of it. The process of this transformation of starch into sugar is beautifully
exemplified in certain plants, such as the beet, the so-called sugar cane, and other growths.
The young plant is, to a great extent, composed of starch; as the plant grows older, a substance
is produced which is called diastase. Through the influence of this diastase the starch is
converted into a peculiar non-crystallizable substance called dextrine, and as the plant matures,
this dextrine is transformed into crystallizable sugar.

"Dextrine is a substance that can be produced from starch by the action of dilute acids, alkalies,
and malt extract, and by roasting it at a temperature between 284° and 330° F., till it is
of a light brown color, and has the odor of overbaked bread."

A simple form of dextrine may be found in the brown crust of bread--that sweetish substance
that gives the crust its agreeable flavor. Pure dextrine is an insipid, odorless, yellowish-white,
translucent substance, which dissolves in water almost as readily as sugar. As stated above,
it is easily converted into dextrose, or glucose, as it is usually named.

This glucose is often sold under the name of sugar, and is the same against which so many of
the newspapers waged such a war a year or two ago. These critics were evidently, for the most
part, persons who knew little about the subject. Glucose, if free from sulphuric acid or other
chemicals, is as harmless as any other form of sugar. Most of our candies contain more or less
of it, and are in every way as satisfactory as when manufactured wholly from other sugars.

It is, therefore, self-evident that, as sugar is a necessary article of food, the process which
aids the transformation of our starchy foods must necessarily aid digestion. Do not understand
me to say by this that, if all our starchy foods were converted into sugar, their digestion
would thereby be completed. As I stated a moment ago, this sweet food, if taken into the stomach
day after day, would soon cause that particular organ to rebel against this sameness of diet.
In order the more clearly to illustrate this point, I will briefly show you how some of the
every-day articles of food can be each day differently prepared, and thus be rendered more
palatable, and, as a consequence, more digestible; for it is a demonstrated fact that savory
foods are far more easily digested than the same foods unsavored.

The art of serving and arranging dishes for the table is an accomplishment in itself. It is
very reasonable that all things that go to make up beauty and harmony at the dinner table should
add their full quota to the appetite, and, I was about to say, "to the digestion;" but will
qualify the statement by saying, to the digestion if the appetite be not porcine.

Our commonest article of food is the potato. Let us see how potatoes--which contain only twenty
per cent. of starch, as against eighty-eight per cent. in rice, and sixty-six per cent. in
wheat flour--can be prepared as just mentioned. We will look for a moment at the manner in
which they are usually served by the average cook:

1, boiled with their jackets on; 2, roasted in the embers; 3, roasted with meat; 4, fried;
5, mashed; 6, salad.

1. Potatoes boiled in their jackets are excellent if properly prepared. But there's the rub.
The trouble is, they are too often allowed to boil slowly and too long, and thus become water-soaked,
soggy, and solid, and proportionately indigestible. They should be put over a brisk fire, and
kept at a brisk boil till done; then drain off the water, sprinkle a little salt over them,
and return to the fire a moment to dry thoroughly, when you will find them bursting with their
white, mealy contents.

2. Roasted potatoes are general favorites, and very digestible. A more agreeable flavor is
imparted to them if roasted in hot embers (wood fire), care being used to keep them covered
with the hot embers.

3. Fried potatoes, as they are very generally served, are almost as digestible as rocks, but
not so tempting in all their grease-dripping beauty as the latter. Many of you have doubtless
seen the potatoes neatly sliced and dumped into a frying pan full of hot lard, where they were
permitted to sink or float, and soak and sob for about a half hour or more. When served, they
presented the picturesque spectacle of miniature potato islands floating at liberty in a sea
of yellow grease. Now, if any of you can relish and digest such a mess as that, I would advise
you to leave this clime, and eat tallow candles with the Esquimaux.

If you are fond of fried potatoes, cook them in this way:

Take what boiled potatoes are left from breakfast or dinner; when cold, remove the jackets,
and cut into thin slices, season with salt, pepper, and a little Cayenne; have ready a hot
frying pan, with enough meat drippings or sweet lard to cover the bottom; put in the potatoes
and fry a rich brown, stirring constantly with a knife to prevent burning. Serve very hot.

4. Mashed potatoes will be discussed further on.

5. Potato salads are appetizing and piquant, because they are usually made up with strong condiments,
onions, etc. They are, therefore, not very digestible in themselves. Nevertheless, they are
so palatable that we cannot easily dispense with them; but, after eating them, if you expect
to have inward peace, either split wood, walk eight and a half miles, or take some other light
exercise.

More palatable, and proportionately digestible, are the following methods of cooking this useful
vegetable:

1, Saratoga potatoes; 2, a la maitre d'hotel; 3, potato croquettes; 4, potatoes and cream;
5, a la Lyonnaise.

1. For Saratogas, pare and slice your potatoes as thin as possible, dropping them into cold
water in which is dissolved a tiny piece of alum to make them crisp. Let them remain in the
water for an hour or longer. Drain, and wipe perfectly dry with a tea towel. Have ready a quantity
of boiling lard. Drop them in, and fry a delicate brown. Drain all grease from them, sprinkle
with salt, and serve. Here, in the crisp slices, you will have the much desired dextrine. Or,
in other words, your potato is already half digested. Eat three or four potatoes prepared thus,
and you feel no inconvenience; but how would you feel did you devour three soggy, water-soaked
boiled potatoes?

2. For a la maitre d'hotel, pare the potatoes, cut into pieces half an inch wide, and the length
of the potato; drop into cold water until wanted (an hour or so); then drain, and fry in boiling
lard. Just as they begin to brown take them out with a skimmer; let them slightly cool; then
put back, and fry a rich brown. This makes them puff up, and very attractive.

