Our inherent cruelty is best illustrated in the treatment we give those who are absolutely
in our power--little children and the dumb animals. With what authority do we elicit respect
and obedience from our little people! With rod in hand and with venomous tongues we begin the
process of subjugating and civilizing our little free, emotional people. In the name of "their
highest good" do we mould them to be actors, that they may properly enact the tragedy of life
as we had enacted it before them!

The dumb animals receive the cream of our refined cruelty. In order to appear civilized, we
drive in carriages pulled by horses whose spinal columns have been docked, whose necks are
held stiff by tight check reins, whose eyes are blinded by "fashionable" devices.

There used to be cannibalism and human sacrifices; there used to be religious prostitution
and the murder of weak children and of girls; there used to be bloody revenge and the slaughter
of whole populations, judicial tortures, quarterings, burnings at the stake, the lash, and
slavery, which have disappeared. But if we have outlived these dreadful customs and institutions,
this does not prove that there do not exist institutions and customs amongst us which have
become as abhorrent to enlightened reason and conscience as those which have in their time
been abolished and have become for us only a dreadful remembrance. The way of human perfecting
is endless, and at every moment of historical life there are superstitions, deceits, pernicious
and evil institutions already outlived by men and belonging to the past; there are others which
appear to us in the far mists of the future; and there are some which we are now living through
and whose over-living forms the object of our life. Such in our time is capital punishment
and all punishment in general. Such is prostitution, such is the work of militarism, war, and
such is the nearest and most obvious evil, private property in land.

"THE JUNGLE."

A Recension by VERITAS.

"THE JUNGLE," a recent story by Upton Sinclair, is a nightmare of horrors, of which the worst
horror is that it is not a phantom of the night, but claims to be true history of one phase
of our twentieth-century civilization. Nothing but the book itself could represent its own
tragic power. In my opinion it is the most terrible book ever written.

It is for the most part a tale of the abattoirs, those unspeakable survivals in our Christendom
in which man reeks his savage and sensual will on the lesser animals; and indirectly it is
a story of the moral abattoirs of politics, economics, society, religion and the home, where
the victims are of the species human, and where man's inhumanity to man is as selfish and relentless
as his age-long cruelty to his brothers and sisters just behind him in the great procession.

Possibly the title is inappropriate. There is a "law of the pack," which is observed in the
genuine jungle, but these human beasts appear to have all of the jungle's vices and few of
its virtues. The author might have called his history, "The Slaughter House," or, perhaps,
plain "Hell."

It is a common saying about a packing house, "We use all of the hog except the squeal." This
author uses the squeal, or, rather, the wild death shrieks of agony of the ten millions of
living creatures tortured to death every year in Chicago and the other tens of millions elsewhere,
to pander to the old brutal, inhuman thirst of humanity for a diet of blood. The billions of
the slain have found a voice at last, and if I mistake not this cry of anguish from the "killing-beds"
shall not sound on until men, whose ancestors once were cannibals, shall cease to devour even
the corpses of their murdered animal relatives. But while "The Jungle" will undoubtedly make
more vegetarians, it would take more than the practice of universal vegetarianism to cause
the book to fulfil its mission; for this is a story of Civilization's Inferno and of the crisis
of the world, a recital of conditions for which, when once comprehended, there can be no remedy
but the revolution of revolutions, the event toward which the ages ran, the establishment of
a genuine political, industrial and social democracy.[2]

If the story be dramatized and Mrs. Fiske take the part of Ona, her presentation will make
Tess seem like a pastoral idyll in comparison.

The book is great even from a political standpoint.

But more than this, it is a great moral appeal. Not in Victor Hugo or Charles Dickens does
the moral passion burn with purer or intenser light than in these pages.

I should not advise children or very delicately constituted women to read it.

I have said it is a book of horrors. I started to mark the passages of peculiar tragedy and
found that I was marking every page, and yet it is a justifiable book and a necessary book.

But the worst of the story is a tale of the condition of the workers at Packingtown and elsewhere.
It is the story of strong men who justly hated their work; of men, for no fault of their own,
cast out in middle life to die; of weeping children driven with whips to their ignoble toil;
of disease-producing conditions in winter, only surpassed by the deadly summer; of people working
with their feet upon the ice and their heads enveloped in hot steam; of the perpetual stench
which infests their nostrils, the sores which universally covered their bodies; of the terrible
pace set by the continual "speeding up" of the pace makers, goaded to a pitch of frenzy; of
accidents commonplace in every family; of the garbage pile of refuse from the tables of more
fortunate citizens, from which many were forced to satisfy their hunger; of the terrors of
the black list, the shut-down, the strike and the lockout; and of the universal swindle, whether
a man bought a house, or doctored tea, coffee, sugar or flour.

It is still further a story of the moral enormities and monstrosities of the almost universal
graft, "the plants honeycombed with rottenness.

When the men were set to perform some peculiarly immoral act, they would say, "Now we are working
for the church," referring to the benefactions of the proprietors to religious institutions.

It tells the story of the training of the children in vice, of girls forced into immorality,
so that a girl without virtue would stand a better chance than a decent one. It is a tale of
the terrible ending of old Antanas by saltpeter poisoning; of Jonas, no one knows how, possibly
he fell into the vats; of little Kristoforas by convulsions; of little Antanas by falling into
a pit before the door of his house; of Marija, in a house of shame; of Stanislovas, who was
eaten by rats; and of beautiful little Ona, to the description of whose ending no other than
the author's pen could do justice.

The book shows how men graft everywhere, not only in the packing house, but how the slime of
the serpent is over almost all of our modern commercial and political practises.

No one can justly hold the meat kings responsible for all of this.

Nothing less than a thorough reconstruction of our whole social organism will suffice. Palliative
philanthropy is, as the author says, "like standing upon the brink of the pit of hell and throwing
snow balls in to lower the temperature."

"The Jungle" is the boiling over of our social volcano and shows us what is in it. It is a
danger signal!

We are all indicted and must stand our trial. There rests upon us the obligation to ascertain
the facts. The author of "The Jungle" lived in Packingtown for months, and the eminently respectable
publishers who are now issuing the book sent a shrewd lawyer to Chicago to report as to whether
the statements in it were exaggerated, and his report confirmed the assertions of the author.

This book is a call to immediate action.

The Lithuanian hero found his solution of the problems suggested in Socialism. The solution
lies either in that direction or in something better, and it behooves those who warn us against
Socialistic experiments to tell us if they know of any other effective remedy. Surely all thoughtful
men should study these theories of social redemption and learn why their advocates claim that
putting them in practice would modify or abolish the evils of our modern conditions.

"The masters, lords and rulers of all lands," the thinkers and workers of our time must speedily
give themselves to the understanding and application of some adequate remedy, or there will
be blood, woe and tears almost without end, "when this dumb terror shall reply to God, after
the silence of the centuries."

FOOTNOTE:

[2] Genuine or not genuine: we live right now in a democracy. If, in spite of that, such diabolical
crimes as Sinclair describes them are committed daily, then this only proves that democracy
is no panacea for them. Why should it, if criminals of the Armour kind realize profits out
of their wholesale poisoning of such dimensions that they can easily buy all the glory of the
people's sovereignty.--Editor.

THE GAME IS UP.

By SADAKICHI HARTMANN.

"HELLO, Morrison, may I come in?" The door stood slightly ajar.

Morrison came to the door--the complexion of his face was sallow and his eyes had a peculiar
look--he recognized his visitor, hesitated for a moment whether he should admit him, then opened
the door and made a sort of mock courtesy.

"Cleaning up?" the tall, lean man asked as he entered the little hall room.

"Yes," and a wistful smile glided over Morrison's pale face; "cleaning up for good."

The room had a peculiar appearance. There was no disorder and yet a lot of things were lying
about; it looked as if the lodger intended to go away on a long journey and had tried to straighten
up matters previous to his departure. The visitor gazed curiously about the room. He had a
strange foreboding, but forced himself to ask in a jocular mood: "Going to Egypt again?"

"Farther than that this time, but it won't take so long; the journey I am contemplating will
be over by to-morrow evening, I hope."

"What do you mean?"

"The game is up."

The tall, lean man made no immediate reply, he merely gazed steadily into the face of his friend.
He had always suspected that it would come to this some day. He really wondered that Morrison
had not done it long ago. If any man had a right to dispose of his life it was surely Morrison.
He had endured more than most human beings. His case was absolutely hopeless.

"Is there no way out of it?"

Morrison shook his head. He wanted to say something, but his voice failed him. He stepped to
the dresser near the window, looked into the mirror and arranged his faded, threadbare tie.
It was pitiful to see how shabbily he was dressed. He no longer set the fashion as in his days
of success, years ago in Boston.

"Would money help you?" and the tall, lean visitor fumbled in his pockets. Although fairly
well dressed, he was hard up most of the time and only ventured to broach the subject as he
just happened to have a few dollars to spare that day.

"No, what good would the little do that you could give me?" and he continued to adjust matters
and tuck things away in his trunk.

"There, you are right again, not much. But I won forty dollars on the track; I sometimes go
out there," he added as a sort of excuse, "as it is impossible to live on literature alone.
I could spare ten."

"Can you really spare them? I won't be able to return them, you know. I would like to have
them. I suppose you will refuse to let me buy a revolver with them. I have all sorts of poisons,"
he pointed to some little bottles, "but I would prefer not to use them, it wouldn't be esthetical,
and then I want to go away to some place where nobody knows me. I don't want to be identified."

The literary man slowly pulled a small roll out of his pocket. He thought of his wife and children
who needed the money. It was really foolish to have made that offer. Well, it was probably
the last service he could render his friend. Morrison was serious about his departure, there
was no doubt about that. "Here!"

"Thanks," Morrison answered, though he did not take the money right away. He looked about absentmindedly,
as in a dream. This was friendship indeed. He had not believed that anybody could so completely
enter another man's state of mind. Not a word of opposition. This was glorious! They had known
each other for more than seventeen years. They had often drifted apart and, somehow, had always
met again. They had never been very intimate, they had merely respected each other for the
work they had accomplished, each in his profession; although they differed largely in ideas.
Morrison was a sculptor, and almost an ancient Greek in his feelings for the beauty of lines.
The tall, lean man, on the other hand, was a strange mixture of a visionary and brutal realist.
They both were cynics, however, that found life rather futile. With the literary man this was
merely a theoretical view point, while Morrison was really embittered with life. The incidents
of this afternoon had surprised him. He was deeply moved and felt as if he should give utterance
to his emotions. He remembered that his attitude towards his friend had been rather arrogant
at times. He now felt sorry for it, but somehow could not form his sentiments and thoughts
into coherent sentences.

"Thanks," he simply repeated, "Has anybody seen you enter the house?"

"No, the door was open and I walked right up. Why do you ask?"

"I don't want anybody to be mixed up in this affair, as it only concerns me."

The literary man smiled: "Could any man influence you one way or another? As far as I can make
out you are beyond mortal influence."

A pause ensued. Morrison threw the last thing into his trunk. "Well, I am ready. Everything
is settled."

"How about your statues?"

"Pshaw!" Morrison shrugged his shoulders. "Nobody was interested in them while I lived. Why
should I bother to think what might become of them after my death?"

The author nodded and scowled at the same time. He was not satisfied with the answer. But there
were still other things on his mind. He was used to analyze everything to shreds and tatters.
"Are you not afraid that you might make a botch out of the whole job?"

Morrison weighed the question in his mind, then shook his head and answered: "No, there is
hardly a chance for it now. I have been tuned up to it, trained myself to it, so to speak.
The fruit is ripe. It has to fall. It would be awful, though--" he added, with an after-thought.
"Do you remember my emerald ring? I had to pawn it, but I kept the poison which was hidden
under the stone. I will take that if anything goes wrong."

"Would you object to my company?" asked the tall, lean man, "I mean until all is over. I, myself,
am not quite ready yet for any such heroical performances."

"Oh, don't think of it," the sculptor ejaculated; notwithstanding, the tone of his voice indicated
that he would not object, that he would even prefer a traveling companion for the last few
hours of his life.

"Well, I'll go with you. Where are you going?"

"To New Haven. It's a nice trip." Morrison carefully brushed his hair and clothes, there came
a flush to his face as he realized how shabby his clothes really were. The tall, lean man was
delicate enough to look away as if he had not noticed anything.

