I hold myself responsible in no way whatsoever for the statements of St. Fiech, St. MacEvin,
or Jocelin, but I present to the reader what they asserted they had received from antiquity.
Their narratives may be pronounced fables, or legends, or inventions, or superstitions, or
histories.  On their intrinsic merits I am silent, except inasmuch as they breathe a firm belief
in the omnipresence of God amongst men, strangely at variance with the lifeless, frosty indifference
of our own day, and are, in addition, savored with a holy heat of charity and a high moral
tone.  Without comment, then, from me, I present to you in America, kind readers, Saint Patrick,
the Apostle and Patron of Ireland and the Irish race, as I received him from my ancestors.
I neither overstate, nor under-estimate, nor withheld anything.  Judge for yourselves.

REV. JAMES O'LEARY, D.D.

THE CONFESSION OF ST. PATRICK.

THE BEGINNING OF THE BOOKS OF THE BISHOP ST. PATRICK.

I, Patrick, a sinner, the rudest and least of all the faithful, and most contemptible to very
many, had for my father Calpornius, a deacon, the son of Potitus, a priest, who lived in Bannaven
Taberniae, for he had a small country-house close by, where I was taken captive when I was
nearly sixteen years of age.  And there the Lord showed me my unbelief, that at length I might
remember my iniquities, and strengthen my whole heart towards the Lord my God, who looked down
upon my humiliation, and had pity upon my youth and ignorance, and kept me before I knew him,
and before I had wisdom or could distinguish between good and evil, and strengthened and comforted
me as a father would his son.

Therefore I cannot and ought not to be silent concerning the great benefits and graces which
the Lord has bestowed upon me in the land of my captivity, since the only return we can make
for such benefits is, after God has reproved us, to extol and confess His wonders before every
nation under heaven.

For there is no other God, nor ever was, nor shall be hereafter, except the Lord, the unbegotten
Father, without beginning, by whom all things have their being, who upholds all things, as
we have said; and His Son, Jesus Christ, whom, together with the Father, we testify to have
always existed before the origin of the world, spiritually with the Father, ineffably begotten
before every beginning; and by Him were the visible things made--was made man, death being
overthrown, in the heavens.  And he hath given Him all power over every name of things in heaven
and earth and hell, that every tongue should confess to Him that Jesus Christ is Lord, and
whose coming we expect ere long to judge the living and dead; who will render to every one
according to his works; who hath poured forth abundantly on us both the gift of His Spirit
and the pledge of immortality; who makes the faithful and obedient to become the sons of God
and coheirs with Christ; whom we confess and adore one God in the Trinity of the holy Name.
For He Himself has said by the prophet: "Call upon me in the day of thy trouble: I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt magnify me."  And again he says: "It is honorable to reveal and confess
the works of God."

Although I am imperfect in many things, I wish my brothers and acquaintances to know my dispositions,
that they may be able to understand the desire of my soul.  I am not ignorant of the testimony
of my Lord, who declares in the psalm: "Thou wilt destroy all that speak a lie."  And again:
"The mouth that belieth, killeth the soul." And the same Lord: "Every idle word that men shall
speak, they shall render an account for it in the Day of Judgment."  Therefore I ought, with
great fear and trembling, to dread this sentence in that day when no one shall be able to withdraw
or hide himself, but all must give an account, even of the least sins, before the judgment-seat
of the Lord Christ.

Therefore, although I thought of writing long ago, I feared the censure of men, because I had
not learned as the others who studied the sacred writings in the best way, and have never changed
their language since their childhood, but continually learned it more perfectly, while I have
to translate my words and speech into a foreign tongue; and it can be easily proved from the
style of my writings how I am instructed in speech and learning, for the Wise Man says: "By
the tongue wisdom is discerned, and understanding and knowledge and learning by the word of
the wise."  But what avails an excuse, however true, especially when accompanied with presumption?
For I, in my old age, strive after that which I was hindered from learning in my youth.  But
who will believe me?  And if I say what I have said before, that as a mere youth, nay, almost
a boy in words, I was taken captive, before I knew what I ought to seek and to avoid.  Therefore
I blush to-day and greatly dread to expose my ignorance, because I am not able to express myself
briefly, with clear and well-arranged words, as the spirit desires and the mind and intellect
point out.  But if it had been given to me as to others, I would not have been silent for the
recompense; and although it may seem to some who think thus that I put myself forward with
my ignorance and too slow tongue, nevertheless it is written, "The tongues of stammerers shall
speak readily and plain"; how much more ought we to undertake this who are the epistle of Christ
for salvation unto the ends of the earth, written in pure heart, if not with eloquence, yet
with power and endurance, "not written with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God"; and
again the Spirit testifies, "Husbandry, it was ordained by the Most High."

Therefore I undertook this work at first, though a rustic and a fugitive, and not knowing how
to provide for the future; but this I know for certain: that before I was humbled, I was like
a stone lying in deep mire, until He who is powerful came, and in his mercy raised me up, and
indeed again succored and placed me in His part; and therefore I ought to cry out loudly, and
thank the Lord in some degree for all his benefits, here and after, which the mind of man cannot
estimate. Therefore be amazed, both great and small who fear God; rhetoricians and ye of the
Lord, hear and enquire who aroused me, a fool, from the midst of those who seem to be wise,
and skilled in the law, and powerful in speech and in all things, and hath inspired me (if
indeed I be such) beyond others, though I am despised by this world, so that, with fear and
reverence and without murmuring, I should faithfully serve this nation, to whom the charity
of Christ hath transferred me, and given me for my life, if I shall survive; and that at last
with humility and truth I should serve them.

In the measure, therefore, of the faith of the Trinity it behoves me to distinguish without
shrinking from danger, and to make known the gift of God and everlasting consolation, and,
without fear, confidently to spread abroad the name of God everywhere, so that after my death
I may leave it to my Gallican brethren and to my sons, many thousands of whom I have baptized
in the Lord.  And I was neither worthy nor deserving that the Lord should so favor me, his
servant, after such afflictions and great difficulties, after captivity, after many years,
as to grant me such grace for this nation--a thing which, still in my youth, I had neither
hoped for nor thought of.  And there one night I heard a voice, while I slept, saying to me:
"Thou dost fast well; fasting thou shalt soon go to thy country." And again, after a very short
time, I heard a response, saying to me: "Behold, thy ship is ready."  And the place was not
near, but perhaps about two hundred miles distant, and I had never been there, nor did I know
any one who lived there.

Soon after this, I fled, and left the man with whom I had been six years, and I came in the
strength of the Lord, who directed my way for good; and I feared nothing until I arrived at
that ship.  And the day on which I came the ship had moved out of her place; and I asked to
go and sail with them, but the master was displeased, and replied angrily: "Do not seek to
go with us."  And when I heard this, I went from them to go thither where I had lodged; and
I began to pray as I went; but before I had ended my prayer, I heard one of them calling out
loudly after me, "Come quickly, for these men are calling you"; and I returned to them immediately,
and they began saying to me; "Come, we receive thee in good faith; make such friendship with
us as you wish."  And then that day I disdained to supplicate them, on account of the fear
of God; but I hoped of them that they would come into the faith of Jesus Christ, for they were
Gentiles; and this I obtained from them; and after three days, we reached land, and for twenty-eight
days we journeyed through a desert, and their provisions failed, and they suffered greatly
from hunger; and one day the master began to say to me: "What sayest thou, O Christian?  Your
God is great and all-powerful; why canst thou not, then, pray for us, since we are perishing
with hunger, and may never see the face of man again?"  And I said to them plainly: "Turn sincerely
to the Lord my God, to whom nothing is impossible, that He may send us food on your way until
ye are satisfied, for it abounds everywhere for Him."  And with God's help it was so done;
for, lo! a flock of swine appeared in the way before our eyes, and they killed many of them,
and remained there two nights, much refreshed and filled with their flesh; for many of them
had been left exhausted by the wayside.  After this, they gave the greatest thanks to God,
and I was honored in their eyes.

They also found wild honey, and offered me some of it, and one of them said: "This is offered
in sacrifice, thanks be to God"; after this, I tasted no more.  But the same night, while I
was sleeping, I was strongly tempted by Satan (of which I shall be mindful as long as I shall
be in this body), and there fell, as it were, a great stone upon me, and there was no strength
in my limbs.  And then it came into my mind, I know not bow, to call upon Elias, and at the
same moment I saw the sun rising in the heavens; and while I cried out Elias with all my might,
behold! the splendor of the sun was shed upon me, and immediately shook from me all heaviness.
And I believe that Christ my Lord cried out for me; and I hope that it will be so in the day
of my adversity, as the Lord testifies in the Gospel: "It is not you that speak," etc.

Some time after, I was taken captive; and on the first night I remained with them I heard a
divine response, saying: "You shall be two months with them"; and so it was.  On the sixtieth
night the Lord delivered me out of their hands, and on the road He provided for us food, and
fire, and dry weather daily, until on the fourteenth day we all came.  As I have above mentioned,
we journeyed twenty-eight days through a desert, and on the night of our arrival we had no
provisions left.

And again, after a few years, I was with my relations in Britain, who received me as a son,
and earnestly besought me that then, at least, after I had gone through so many tribulations,
I would go nowhere from them.  Thanks be to God that, after very many years, the Lord hath
granted them their desire!

And on another night, whether in me or near me God knows, I heard eloquent words which I could
not understand until the end of the speech, when it was said: "He who gave His life for thee
is He who speaks in thee"; and so I awoke full of joy.  And again, I saw one praying within
me, and I was, as it were, within my body, and I heard, that is, above the inner man, and there
he prayed earnestly with groans.  And I was amazed at this, and marvelled, and considered who
this could be who prayed in me.  But at the end of the prayer it came to pass that it was a
bishop, and I awoke and remembered that the apostle said: "Likewise the Spirit also helpeth
our infirmity, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself
asketh for us with unspeakable groanings."  And again: "The Lord is our advocate, who also
maketh intercession for us."  [And when I was tried by some of my elders, who came and spoke
of my sins as an objection to my laborious episcopate, I was on that day sometimes strongly
driven to fall away here and for ever.  But the Lord spared a proselyte and a stranger for
His name's sake, and mercifully assisted me greatly in that affliction, because I was not entirely
deserving of reproach.  I pray God that they may not be found guilty of giving an occasion
of sin; they found me after thirty years, and brought against me words that I had confessed
before I was a deacon; from anxiety, with sorrow of mind, I told my dearest friend what I had
done in my youth, in one day, nay, rather in one hour, because I was not then able to overcome.
I know not, God knows, if I was then fifteen years of age, and from my childhood I did not
believe in the living God, but remained in death and unbelief until I was severely chastised,
and, in truth, I have been humbled by hunger and nakedness; and even now I did not come to
Ireland of my own will until I was nearly worn out.  But this proved a blessing to me, for
I was thus corrected by the Lord, and he made me fit to be to-day that which was once far from
my thoughts, so that I should care for the salvation of others, for at that time I had no thought
even for myself.

And in the night of the day in which I was reproved for the things above mentioned, I saw in
the night.] I saw in a vision of the night a writing without honor before me.  And then I heard
an answer saying to me, "We have heard with displeasure the face of the elect without a name."
He did not say, "Thou hast badly seen," but "We have badly seen," as if he had there joined
himself to me, as he said: "He that touches you is as he who toucheth the apple of my eye."
Therefore I give thanks to Him who comforted me in all things that He did not hinder me from
the journey which I had proposed, and also as regards my work which I had learned of Christ.
But from this thing I felt no little strength, and my faith was approved before God and man.

Therefore I dare to say that my conscience does not reproach me now or for the future.  I have
the testimony of God now that I have not lied in the words I have told you.  [But I feel the
more grieved that my dearest friend, to whom I would have trusted even my life, should have
occasioned this.  And I learned from certain brethren that, before this defence, when I was
not present, nor even in Britain, and with which I had nothing to do, that he defended me in
my absence.  He had even said to me with his own lips: "Thou art going to be given the rank
of bishop," though I was not worthy of it.  How, then, did it happen to him that afterwards,
before all persons, good and bad, he should detract me publicly, when he had before this freely
and gladly praised me?  And the Lord, who is greater than all?  I have said enough. Still,
I ought not to hide the gift of God which he gave me in the land of my captivity, for I sought
him earnestly then, and found him there, and He preserved me from all iniquity, I believe,
through the indwelling of His Spirit, which worketh within me unto this day more and more.
But God knows, if it were man who spoke this to me, I would perhaps be silent for the love
of Christ.

Therefore I give unceasing thanks to my God, who preserved me faithful in the day of my temptation,
so that I can to-day offer him sacrifice confidently--the living sacrifice of my soul to Christ
my Lord, who preserved me from all my troubles, so that I may say to Him: "Who am I, O Lord!
or what is my calling, that divine grace should have so wrought with me, so that to-day I can
so rejoice amongst the nations, and magnify Thy name, wherever I am, not only in prosperity,
but also in adversity?" and I ought to receive equally whatever happens to me, whether good
or evil, giving God thanks in all things, who hath shown me that I should, undoubtingly, without
ceasing, believe in Him who hath heard me though I am ignorant, and that I should undertake,
in those days, so holy and wonderful a work, and imitate those of whom our Lord predicted of
old that they should preach His Gospel to all nations for a testimony before the end of the
world; which has been accomplished, as we have seen.  Behold, we are witnesses that the Gospel
has been preached to the limits of human habitation.]

But it is too long to detail my labors particularly, or even partially. I will briefly say
how the good God often delivered me from slavery and from twelve dangers by which my soul was
threatened, besides many snares, and what in words I cannot express, and with which I will
not trouble my readers.  But God knows all things, even before they come to pass [as he does
me, a poor creature.  Therefore the divine voice very often admonished me to consider whence
came this wisdom, which was not in me, who neither knew God nor the number of my days.  Whence
did I obtain afterwards the great and salutary gift to know or love God, and to leave my country
and my relations, although many gifts were offered to me with sorrow and tears.  And I offended
many of my seniors then against my will.  But, guided by God, I yielded in no way to them--not
to me, but to God be the glory, who conquered in me, and resisted them all; so that I came
to the Irish people to preach the Gospel, and bear with the injuries of the unbelieving, and
listen to the reproach of being a stranger, and endure many persecutions, even to chains, and
to give up my freedom for the benefit of others.  And if I be worthy, I am ready to give up
my life unhesitatingly and most cheerfully for His name, and thus, if the Lord permit, I desire
to spend it even until my death.]

For I am truly a debtor to God, who has given me so much grace that many people should be born
again to God through me, and that for them everywhere should be ordained priests for this people,
newly come to the faith, which the Lord took from the ends of the earth, as He promised formerly
by His prophets: "Our fathers falsely prepared idols, and there is no profit in them, to thee
the Gentiles come and will say."  And again: "I have set thee to be the light of the Gentiles,
that thou mayest be for salvation unto the utmost parts of the earth."  So we believe that
the faithful shall come from all parts of the world.

Therefore we ought to fish well and diligently; as the Lord taught and said: "Come ye after
me, and I will make you fishers of men."  The rest are examples.  [And again: "This Gospel
of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world for a testimony to all nations, and then
shall the consummation come."  And Osee saith: "And I will say to that which was not my people:
Thou art my people: and to her who hath not found mercy; and they shall say; Thou art my God.
And in the place where I said to them, You are not my people, it shall be said to them, Ye
are the sons of the living God."]

Wherefore behold how in Ireland they who never had the knowledge of God, and hitherto only
worshipped unclean idols, have lately become the people of the Lord, and are called the sons
of God.  The sons of the Scoti and the daughters of princes are seen to be monks and virgins
of Christ.  [And there was one blessed Irish maiden, of adult age, noble and very beautiful,
whom I baptized, and after a few days she came to us for a reason, and gave us to understand
that she had received a command from God, and was informed that she was to become a virgin
of Christ, and to draw near to God.  Thanks be to God, six days after this she most excellently
and eagerly entered on this state of life, which all the virgins of God now adopt, even against
the will of their parents, even enduring reproaches and persecution from them, and notwithstanding
they increase in number; and as for those who are born again in this way, we know not their
number, except the widows and those who observe continency.  But those who are in slavery are
most severely persecuted, yet they persevere in spite of terrors and threats.  But the Lord
has given grace to many of my handmaids, for they zealously imitate him as far as they are able.

Therefore, though I could have wished to leave them, and had been ready and very desirous to
go to Britannia, as if to my country and parents, and not that alone, but to go even to Gallia,
to visit my brethren, and to see the face of my Lord's saints; and God knows that I desired
it greatly.  But I am bound in the spirit, and he who witnesseth will account me guilty if
I do it, and I fear to lose the labor which I have commenced--and not I, but the Lord Christ,
who commanded me to come and be with them for the rest of my life; if the Lord grants it, and
keeps me from every evil way, that I should not sin before him.  But I hope that which I am
bound to do, but I trust not myself as long as I am in this body of death, for he is strong
who daily tries to turn me from the faith, and from the sincere religious chastity to Christ
my Lord, to which I have dedicated myself to the end of my life, but the flesh, which is in
enmity, always draws me to death--that is, to unlawful desires, that must be unlawfully gratified--and
I know in part that I have not led a perfect life like other believers.  But I confess to my
Lord, and do not blush before him, because I tell the truth, that from the time I knew him
in my youth the love of God and his fear increased within me, and until now, by the favor of
the Lord, I have kept the faith.

Let him who pleases insult and laugh at me; I will not be silent, neither do I conceal the
signs and wonders that the Lord hath shown to me many years before they took place, as he who
knew all things even before the world began.  Therefore I ought to give thanks to God without
ceasing, who often pardoned my uncalled-for folly and negligence, who did not let his anger
turn fiercely against me, who allowed me to work with him, though I did not promptly follow
what was shown me and what the Spirit suggested; and the Lord had compassion on me among thousands
and thousands, because he saw my good-will; but then I knew not what to do, because many were
hindering my mission, and were talking behind my back, and saying: "Why does he run into danger
among enemies who know not God?"  This was not said with malice, but because they did not approve
of it, but, as I now testify, because of my rusticity, you understand; and I did not at once
recognize the grace which was then in me, but now I know I should have known before.

