     "Whereas it has been represented to me, Thomas Touchit, Watchman
     Extraordinary of the City of Westminster, that the Watchmen of
     London were very remiss during the dreadful Fire on Friday
     morning, March 25, in not giving timely Notice of that Calamity
     over their several Beats, whereby the Friends of many of the
     unhappy Sufferers, who would have flown to their Assistance, were
     ignorant of their Distress till it was too late to do them Service;
     and also that most of the said Watchmen, on other Occasions, are
     very negligent, whence it happens that many Robberies, Burglaries,
     and other Offences, which their Care might prevent, are committed;
     and that even some of them are in Fee with common Harlots and
     Streetwalkers, whom they suffer at unseasonable Hours, unmolested
     to prey on the Virtue, Health and Property of His Majesty's Liege
     Subjects: Be it known to the said Watchmen, and their Masters,
     that, having taken the Premises into Consideration, I intend
     whenever I set out from Spring Gardens with my invisible Cap,
     my irradiating Lanthorn, and my Oken Staff of correction, to
     take the City of London, under Leave of the Right Hon. the Lord
     Mayor, into my Rounds, and to detect, expose, and punish all
     Defaulters in the several Stands and Beats: Whereof this fair
     Warning is given, that none may be surprized in Neglect of Duty, I
     being determined to shew no Favour to such Offenders."

Euston Square, 12th Dec. 1849.

Aelfric's Colloquy.--Permit me to correct a singular error into which the great Anglo-Saxon
scholars, Messrs. Lye and B. Thorpe, have been betrayed by some careless transcriber of the
curious Monastic Colloquy by the celebrated Aelfric. This production of the middle ages is
very distinctly written, both in the Saxon and Latin portions, in the Cotton MS. (Tiberius,
A 3, fol. 58b.) Mr. Lye frequently cites it, in his Saxon Dictionary, as "Coll. Mon.," and
Mr. Thorpe gives it entire in his Analecta Anglo-Saxonica. The former loosely explains higdifatu,
which occurs in the reply of the shoewright (sceowyrhta), thus--"Calidilia, sc. vasa quoedam.--Coll.
Mon."--and Mr. Thorpe prints both higdifatu and calidilia. Higdifatu is manifestly vessels
of hides, such as skin and leather bottles and buckets. The ig is either a clerical error of
the monkish scribe for y, or the g is a silent letter producing the quantity of the vowel.
"I buy hides and fells," says the workman, "and with my craft I make of them shoes of different
kinds; leathern hose, flasks, and higdifatu." The Latin word in this MS. is casidilia, written
with the long straight s. Du Cange explains capsilis to be a vessel of leather, and quotes
Matt. Westmon.: "Portans cassidile toxicum mellitum."--Gloss. tom. ii. col. 387. The root caps,
or cas, does not appear to have any Teutonic correspondent, and may merit a philological investigation.

R.T. Hampson.

Humble Pie.--the proverbial expression of "eating humble pie," explained by A.G., will be found
also explained in the same manner in the Appendix to Forby's Vocabulary, where it is suggested
that the correct orthography would be "umble pie," without the aspirate. Bailey, in his valuable
old Dictionary, traces the word properly to umbilicus, the region of the intestines, and acknowledges
in his time the perquisite of the game-keeper.

J.I.

Oxford.

By Hook or by Crook.--You have noted the origin of Humble Pie. May I add a note of a saying,
in my opinion also derived from forest customs, viz. "By hook or by crook?" Persons entitled
to fuel wood in the king's forest, were only authorised to take it of the dead wood or branches
of trees in the forest, "with a cart, a hook, and a crook."

