Moreover, Mr. Redfield's whole conception of the increase of intelligence with increase of
age in a parent shows a disregard of the facts of psychology. As E. A. Doll has pointed out,[196]
in criticising Mr. Redfield's recent and extreme claim that feeble-mindedness is the product
of early marriage, it is incorrect to speak of 20-, 30-, or 40-year standards of intelligence;
for recent researches in measurement of mental development indicate that the heritable standard
of intelligence of adults increases very little beyond the age of approximately 16 years. A
person 40 years old has an additional experience of a quarter of a century, and so has a larger
mental content, but his intelligence is still nearly at the 16-year level. Mental activity
is the effect, not the cause, of mental growth or development. Education merely turns inherent
mental powers to good account; it makes very little change in those powers themselves. To suppose
that a father can, by study, raise his innate level of intelligence and transmit it at the
new level to his son, is a naïve idea which finds no warrant in the known facts of mental development.

2. In his entire conception of the storing-up and transmission of energy, Mr. Redfield has
fallen victim to a confusion of ideas due to the use of the same word to mean two different
things. He thinks of energy as an engineer; he declares the body-cell is a storage battery;
he believes that the athlete by performing work stores up energy in his body (in some mysterious
and unascertainable way) just as the clock stores up energy when it is wound. The incorrectness
of supposing that the so-called energy of a man is of that nature, is remarkable. If, hearing
Bismarck called a man of iron, one should analyze his remains to find out how much more iron
he contained than ordinary men, it would be a performance exactly comparable to Mr. Redfield's,
when he thinks of a man's "energy" as something stored up by work.

As a fact, a man contains less energy, after the performance of work, than he did at the start.
All of his "energy" comes from the metabolism of food that he has previously eaten. His potential
energy is the food stored up in his body, particularly the glycogen in the liver and muscles.[197]

Why, then, can one man run faster than another? Mr. Redfield thinks it is because the sprinter
has, by previous work, stored up energy in his body, which carries him over the course more
rapidly than the sluggard who has not been subjected to systematic training. But the differences
in men's ability are not due to the amount of energy they have stored up. It is due rather
to differences in their structure (using this word in a very broad sense), which produce differences
in the efficiency with which they can use the stored-up energy (i.e., food) in their bodies.
A fat Shorthorn bull contains much more stored-up energy than does a race horse, but the latter
has the better structure--coördination of muscles with nervous system, in particular--and there
is never any doubt about how a race between the two will end. The difference between the results
achieved by a highly educated thinker and a low-grade moron are similarly differences in structural
efficiency: the moron may eat much more, and thereby have more potential energy, than the scholar;
but the machine, the brain, can not utilize it.

The effects of training are not to store up energy in the body, for it has been proved that
work decreases rather than increases the amount of energy in the body. How is it, then, that
training increases a man's efficiency? It is obviously by improving his "structure," and probably
the most important part of this improvement is in bringing about better relations between the
muscles and the nerves. To pursue the analogy which Mr. Redfield so often misuses, the effect
of training on the human machine is merely to oil the bearings and straighten out bent parts,
to make it a more efficient transformer of the energy that is supplied to it.

The foundation stone of Mr. Redfield's hypothesis is his idea that the animal by working stores
up energy. This idea is the exact reverse of the truth. While the facts which Mr. Redfield
has gathered deserve much study, his idea of "Dynamic Evolution" need not be taken seriously.[198]

APPENDIX C

THE "MELTING POT"

America as the "Melting Pot" of peoples is a picture often drawn by writers who do not trouble
themselves as to the precision of their figures of speech. It has been supposed by many that
all the racial stocks in the United States were tending toward a uniform type. There has never
been any real evidence on which to base such a view, and the study completed in 1917 by Dr.
Ales Hrdlicka, curator of the division of physical anthropology of the U. S. National Museum,
furnishes evidence against it. He examined 400 individuals of the Old White American stock,
that is, persons all of whose ancestors had been in the United States as far as the fourth
ascending generation. He found little or no evidence that hereditary traits had been altered.
Even the descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers, the Virginia cavaliers, the Pennsylvania Dutch
and the Huguenots, while possibly not as much unlike as their ancestors were, are in no sense
a blend.

The "Melting Pot," it must be concluded, is a figure of speech; and as far as physical anthropology
is concerned, it will not be anything more in this country, at least for many centuries.

Announcing the results of study of the first 100 males and 100 females of his series,[199]
Dr. Hrdlicka said, "The most striking result of the examinations is the great range of variation
among Old Americans in nearly all the important measurements. The range of variation is such
that in some of the most significant determinations it equals not only the variation of any
one group, but the combined variations of all the groups that enter into the composition of
the Americans." This fact would be interpreted by the geneticist as an evidence of hybridity.
It is clear that, at the very beginning, a number of diverse, although not widely differing,
stocks must have made up the colonial population; and intermarriage and the influence of the
environment have not welded these stocks into one blend, but have merely produced a mosaic-like
mixture. This is good evidence of the permanence of inherited traits, although it must be qualified
by the statement that it does not apply equally to all features of the body, the face, hands
and feet having been found less variable, for instance, than stature and form of head.

ka's measurements represents the mean man of Colonial ancestry. The outline of the face is
almost oblong; the head is high and well-developed, particularly in the regions which are popularly
supposed to denote superior intelligence. In general, it is a highly specialized type, denoting
an advanced evolution.]

The stature of both American men and women is high, higher than the average of any European
nation except the Scotch. The individual variation is, however, enormous, amounting to 16.4%
of the average in males and nearly 16% in females. For males, 174 cm. is the average height,
for females 162. The arm spread in males is greater than their stature, in females it is less.

The average weight of the males is 154 lbs.[typo: missing comma?] of the females 130. Taking
into consideration the tall stature, these weights are about equal to those among Europeans.

The general proportions of the body must be classed as medium, but great fluctuations are shown.

The face is, in general, high and oval; in females it occasionally gives the impression of
narrowness. The forehead is well developed in both sexes. The nose is prevalently long and
of medium breadth, its proportions being practically identical with those of the modern English.
The ears are longer than those of any modern immigrants except the English. The mouth shows
medium breadth in both sexes, and its averages exactly equal those obtained for modern French.

One of the most interesting results is that there were obtained among these first 200 individuals
studied no pronounced blonds, although the ancestry is North European, where blondness is more
or less prevalent.[200] The exact distribution is:

                                    Male           Female

  Light-brown                        12%             16%
  Medium-brown to dark                77              68
  Very dark                           11               6
  Golden-red and red                   0              10

Dr. Hrdlicka's classification of the eye is as follows:

                                    Male           Female
  Gray                               2%              4%
  Greenish                            7              10
  Blues                              54              50
  Browns                             37              36

The head among Old Americans is in many cases notable for its good development, particularly
in males. Among 12 groups of male immigrants[201] measured at Ellis Island under Dr. Hrdlicka's
direction in recent years, not one group quite equals in this respect the Americans, the nearest
approach being noted in the Irish, Bohemians, English, Poles, and North Italians. The type
of head, however, differs among the Americans very widely, as is the case with most civilized
races at the present day.

Head form is most conveniently expressed by means of the cephalic index, that is, the ratio
of breadth to length. Anthropologists generally speak of any one with an index of 75 (or where
the breadth is 75% of the length) and below this as dolichocephalic, or long-headed; from 75
to 80 is the class of the mesocephalic, intermediates; while above 80 is that of the subbrachycephalic
and brachycephalic, or round-headed. For the most part, the Old Americans fall into the intermediate
class, the average index of males being 78.3 and that of females 79.5.

Barring a few French Huguenots, the Old Americans considered here are mostly of British ancestry,
and their head form corresponds rather closely to that of the English of the present day. In
England, as is well known, the round-headed type of Central and Eastern Europe, the Alpine
or Celto-Slav type, has few representatives. The population is composed principally of long-headed
peoples, deriving from the two great European stocks, the Nordic and the Mediterranean. To
the latter the frequency of dark hair and brown eyes is probably due, both in England and America.

While the average of the Old Americans corresponds closely to the average of the English, there
is a great deal of variation in both countries. Unfortunately, it is impossible to compare
the present Americans with their ancestors, because measurements of the latter are lacking.
But to assume that the early colonists did not differ greatly from the modern English is probably
justifiable. A comparison of modern Americans (of the old white stock) with modern English
should give basis for an opinion as to whether the English stock underwent any marked modifications,
on coming to a new environment.

It has already been noted that the average cephalic index is practically the same; the only
possibility of a change then lies in the amount of variability. Is the American stock more
or less variable? Can a "melting pot" influence be seen, tending to produce homogeneity, or
has change of environment rather produced greater variability, as is sometimes said to be the case?

The amount of variability is most conveniently measured by a coefficient known as the standard
deviation ([Greek: s]), which is small when the range of variation is small, but large when
diversity of material is great. The following comparisons of the point at issue may be made.[202]

                                               Avg.       [Greek: s]

   100 American men                            78.3            3.1
  1011 Cambridge graduates (English males)     79.85           2.95

For the men, little difference is discernible. The Old Americans are slightly more long-headed
than the English, but the amount of variation in this trait is nearly the same on the two sides
of the ocean.

The average of the American women is 79.5 with [Greek: s] = 2.6. No suitable series of English
women has been found for comparison.(203) It will be noted that the American women are slightly
more round-headed than the men; this is found regularly to be the case, when comparisons of
the head form of the two sexes are made in any race.

In addition to establishing norms or standards for anthropological comparison, the main object
of Dr. Hrdlicka's study was to determine whether the descendants of the early American settlers,
living in a new environment and more or less constantly intermarrying, were being amalgamated
into a distinct sub-type of the white race. It has been found that such amalgamation has not
taken place to any important degree. The persistence in heredity of certain features, which
run down even through six or eight generations, is one of the remarkable results brought out
by the study.

If the process could continue for a few hundred years more, Dr. Hrdlicka thinks, it might reach
a point where one could speak of the members of old American families as of a distinct stock.
But so far this point has not been reached; the Americans are almost as diverse and variable,
it appears, as were their first ancestors in this country.

APPENDIX D

THE ESSENCE OF MENDELISM

It is half a century since the Austrian monk, Gregor Mendel, published in a provincial journal
the results of his now famous breeding experiments with garden peas. They lay unnoticed until
1900, when three other breeders whose work had led them to similar conclusions, almost simultaneously
discovered the work of Mendel and gave it to the world.

Breeding along the lines marked out by Mendel at once became the most popular method of attack,
among those who were studying heredity. It became an extremely complicated subject, which can
not be grasped without extended study, but its fundamentals can be briefly summarized.

Inherited differences in individuals, it will be admitted, are due to differences in their
germ-plasms. It is convenient to think of these differences in germ-plasms (that is, differences
in heredity) as being due to the presence in the germ-plasm of certain hypothetical units,
which are usually referred to as factors. The factor, nowadays, is the ultimate unit of Mendelian
research. Each of these factors is considered to be nearly or quite constant,--that is, it
undergoes little, or no change from generation to generation. It is ordinarily resistant to
"contamination" by other factors with which it may come in contact in the cell. The first fundamental
principle of Mendelism, then, is the existence of relatively constant units, the Mendelian
factors, as the basis for transmission of all the traits that go to make up an animal or plant.

Experimental breeding gives reason to believe that each factor has one or more alternatives,
which may take its place in the mechanism of heredity, thereby changing the visible character
of the individual plant or animal in which it occurs. To put the matter a little differently,
one germ-cell differs from another in having alternatives present in place of some of the factors
of the latter. A given germ-cell can never have more than one of the possible alternatives
of each factor. These alternatives of a factor are called its allelomorphs.

Now a mature germ-cell has a single system of these factors: but when two germ-cells unite,
there result from that union two kinds of cells--namely, immature germ-cells and body-cells;
and both these kinds of cells contain a double system of factors, because of course they have
received a single entire system from each parent. This is the second of the fundamental principles
of Mendelism: that the factors are single in the mature germ-cell, but in duplicate in the
body-cell (and also in the immature germ-cell).

In every cell with a double system of factors, there are necessarily present two representatives
from each set of allelomorphs, but these may or may not be alike--or in technical language
the individual may be homozygous, or heterozygous, as regards the given set of alternative
factors. Looking at it from another angle, there is a single visible character in the plant
or animal, but it is produced by a double factor, in the germ-plasm.

When the immature germ-cell, with its double system of factors, matures, it throws out half
the factors, retaining only a single system: and the allelomorphic factors which then segregate
into different cells are, as has been said above, ordinarily uninfluenced by their stay together.

But the allelomorphic factors are not the only ones which are segregated into different germ-cells,
at the maturation of the cell; for the factors which are not alternative are likewise distributed,
more or less independently of each other, so that it is largely a matter of chance whether
factors which enter a cross in the same germ-cell, segregate into the same germ-cell or different
ones, in the next generation. This is the next fundamental principle of Mendelism, usually
comprehended under the term "segregation," although, as has been pointed out, it is really
a double process, the segregation of alternative factors being a different thing from the segregation
of non-alternative factors.

From this fact of segregation, it follows that as many kinds of germ-cells can be formed by
an individual, as there are possible combinations of factors, on taking one alternative from
each pair of allelomorphs present. In practice, this means that the possible number of different
germ-cells is almost infinitely great, as would perhaps be suspected by anyone who has tried
to find two living things that are just alike.

Such is the essence of Mendelism; and the reader is probably ready to admit that it is not
a simple matter, even when reduced to the simplest terms. To sum up, the principal features
at the base of the hypothetical structure are these:

1. There exist relatively constant units in the germ-plasm.

2. There are two very distinct relationships which these units may show to each other. Two
(or more) unit factors may be alternatives in the mechanism of inheritance, indicating that
one is a variation (or loss) of the other; or they may be independent of each other in the
mechanism of inheritance.

3. The mature germ-cell contains a single system of independent factors (one representative
from each set of alternates).

The immature germ-cells, and body-cells, have double systems of independent factors (two from
each set of alternatives).

4. The double system arises simply from the union of two single systems (i. e., two germ-cells),
without union or even contamination of the factors involved.

In the formation of a single system (mature germ-cells) from a double (immature germ-cells),
pairs of alternates separate, passing into different germ-cells. Factors not alternates may
or may not separate--the distribution is largely a matter of chance.

Such are the fundamental principles of Mendelism; but on them was early grafted a theoretical
structure due mainly to the German zoölogist, August Weismann. To understand his part in the
story, we must advert to that much mooted and too often misunderstood problem furnished by
the chromosomes. (See Fig. 46.) These little rods of easily stained material, which are found
in every cell of the body, were picked out by Professor Weismann as the probable carriers of
heredity. With remarkable acuteness, he predicted their behavior at cell-division, the intricate
nature of which is usually the despair of every beginner in biology. When Mendelian breeding,
in the early years of this century, showed temporary pairing and subsequent separation of units
in the germ-cell, it was soon realized that the observed facts of breeding fitted to a nicety
the observed facts (predicted by Weismann) of chromosome-behavior; for at each cell-division
the chromosomes, too, pair and separate again. The observed behavior of transmitted characters
in animals and plants followed, in so many cases, the observed behavior of the chromosomes,
that many students found it almost impossible to believe that there was no connection between
the two, and Dr. Weismann's prediction, that the chromosomes are the carriers of heredity,
came to be looked on as a fact, by many biologists.

But when so much of Professor Weismann's system was accepted, other parts of it went along,
including a hypothetical system of "determiners" in the chromosome, which were believed to
determine the development of characters in the organism. Every trait of an animal or plant,
it was supposed, must be represented in the germ-plasm by its own determiner; one trait, one
determiner. Did a notch in the ear run through a pedigree? Then it must be due to a determiner
for a notch in the ear in the germ-plasm. Was mathematical ability hereditary? Then there must
be a determiner, the expression of which was mathematical ability.

For a while, this hypothesis was of service in the development of genetics; some students even
began to forget that it was a hypothesis, and to talk as if it were a fact. But the exhaustive
tests of experimental breeding of plants and animals have long caused most of the advanced
students of genetics to drop this simple hypothesis.

In its place stands the factorial hypothesis, evolved by workers in America, England, and France
at about the same time. As explained in Chapter V, this hypothesis carries the assumption that
every visible character is due to the effects of not one but many factors in the germ-cell.

In addition to these fundamentals, there are numerous extensions and corollaries, some of them
of a highly speculative nature. The reader who is interested in pursuing the subject farther
must turn to one of the text-books on Mendelism.

In plant-breeding a good deal of progress has been made in the exact study of Mendelian heredity;
in animal breeding, somewhat less; in human heredity, very little. The reason is obvious: that
experiments can not be made in man, and students must depend on the results of such matings
as they can find; that only a very few offspring result from each mating; and that generations
are so long that no one observer can have more than a few under his eyes. These difficulties
make Mendelian research in man a very slow and uncertain matter.

Altogether, it is probable that something like a hundred characters in man have been pointed
out as inherited in Mendelian fashion. A large part of these are pathological conditions or
rare abnormalities.

But the present writers can not accept most of these cases. It has been pointed out in Chapter
V that there are good reasons for doubting that feeble-mindedness is inherited in a simple
Mendelian fashion, although it is widely accepted as such. We can not help feeling that in
most cases heredity in man is being made to appear much simpler than it really is; and that
particularly in mental characters, analysis of traits has by no means reached the bottom.

If we were asked to make out a list of characters, as to the Mendelian inheritance of which
there could be little doubt, we would hardly be able to go farther than the following:

The sex-linked characters (one kind of color-blindness, hemophilia, one kind of night-blindness,
atrophy of the optic nerve, and a few other rare abnormalities).

Albinism. This appears to be a recessive, but probably involves multiple allelomorphs in man,
as in other animals.

Brachydactyly, apparently a dominant. This is so much cited in text-books on Mendelism that
the student might think it is a common character. As a fact, it is extremely rare, being found
in only a few families. The similar trait of orthodactyly or symphalangism, which likewise
appears to be a good Mendelian dominant, seems to exist in only one family. Traits like these,
which are easily defined and occur very rarely, make up a large part of the cases of probably
Mendelian heredity. They are little more than curiosities, their rarity and abnormal nature
depriving them of evolutionary significance other than to demonstrate that Mendelian heredity
does operate in man.

White blaze in the hair or, as it might better be called to show its resemblance to the trait
found in other mammals, piebaldism. A rather rare dominant.[204]

Huntington's Chorea, which usually appears to be a good dominant, although the last investigators
(Muncey and Davenport) found some unconformable cases.

A few abnormalities, such as a premature graying of the hair (one family cited by K. Pearson)
are well enough attested to be admitted. Many others, such as baldness, are probably Mendelian
but not yet sufficiently supported by evidence.

None of these characters, it will be observed, is of much significance eugenically. If the
exact manner of inheritance of some of the more important mental and physical traits were known,
it would be of value. But it is not a prerequisite for eugenic action. Enough is known for
a working program.

To sum up: the features in the modern view of heredity, which the reader must keep in mind,
are the following:

1. That the various characters which make up the physical constitution of any individual plant
or animal are due to the action (concurrently with the environment, of course) of what are
called, for convenience, factors, separable hypothetical units in the germ-plasm, capable of
independent transmission.

2. That each visible character is due to the coöperative action of an indefinitely large number
of factors; conversely, that each of these factors affects an indefinitely large number of
characters.

APPENDIX E

USEFUL WORKS OF REFERENCE

The most complete bibliography is that published by the State Board of Charities of the State
of New York (Eugenics and Social Welfare Bulletin No. III, pp. 130, Albany, 1913).

An interesting historical review of eugenics, with critical comments on the literature and
a bibliography of 100 titles, was published by A. E. Hamilton in the Pedagogical Seminary,
Vol. XXI, pp. 28-61, March, 1914.

Much of the important literature of eugenics has been mentioned in footnotes. For convenience,
a few of the books which are likely to be most useful to the student are here listed:

GENETICS AND EUGENICS, by W. E. Castle. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 1916.

HEREDITY AND ENVIRONMENT IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MEN, by Edwin G. Conklin. Princeton University
Press, 1915.

HEREDITY IN RELATION TO EUGENICS, by C. B. Davenport, Henry Holt and Co., New York, 1911.

ESSAYS IN EUGENICS, by Francis Galton. Eugenics Education Society, London, 1909.

BEING WELL-BORN, by Michael F. Guyer. Indianapolis, Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1916.

THE SOCIAL DIRECTION OF HUMAN EVOLUTION, by W. E. Kellicott. New York, 1911.

THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF SOCIETY, by Carl Kelsey. New York, D. Appleton & Co., 1916.

EUGENICS, by Edward Schuster. Collins' Clear Type Press, London and Glasgow, 1913.

HEREDITY, by J. Arthur Thompson. Edinburgh, 1908.

GENETICS, by Herbert E. Walter. The Macmillan Co., New York, 1913.

AN INTRODUCTION TO EUGENICS, by W. C. D. Whetham and C. D. Whetham. Macmillan and Co., London,
1912.

HEREDITY AND SOCIETY, by W. C. D. Whetham and C. D. Whetham. Longmans, Green & Co., London, 1912.

THE FAMILY AND THE NATION, by W. C. D. Whetham and C. D. Whetham. Longmans, Green & Co., London,
1909.

The principal periodicals are the Journal of Heredity (organ of the American Genetic Association),
511 Eleventh St., N. W., Washington, D. C. (monthly); and the Eugenics Review (organ of the
Eugenics Education Society), Kingsway House, Kingsway, W. C., London (quarterly). These periodicals
are sent free to members of the respective societies. Membership in the American organization
is $2 a year, in the English 1 guinea a year, associate membership 5 shillings a year.

APPENDIX F

GLOSSARY

ACQUIRED CHARACTER, a modification of a germinal trait after cell fusion. It is difficult to
draw a line between characters that are acquired and those that are inborn. The idea involved
is as follows: in a standard environment, a given factor in the germ-plasm will develop into
a trait which varies not very widely about a certain mean. The mean of this trait is taken
as representing the germinal trait in its typical condition. But if the environment be not
standard, if it be considerably changed, the trait will develop a variation far from the mean
of that trait in the species. Thus an American, whose skin in the standard environment of the
United States would be blonde, may under the environment of Cuba develop into a brunette. Such
a wide variation from the mean thus caused is called an acquired character; it is usually impressed
on the organism after the germinal trait has reached a full, typical development.

ALLELOMORPH (one another form), one of a pair of factors which are alternative to each other
in Mendelian inheritance. Instead of a single pair, there may be a group of "multiple allelomorphs,"
each member being alternative to every other member of the group.

ALLELOMORPHISM, a relation between two or more factors, such that two which are present in
one zygote do not both enter into the same gamete, but are separated into sister gametes.

BIOMETRY (life measure), the study of biology by statistical methods.

BRACHYDACTYLY (short-finger), a condition in which the bones, particularly of the fingers and
toes, fail to grow to their normal length. In well-marked cases one of these is a reduction
from three phalanges or joints to two.

CHARACTER (a contraction of "characteristic"), a term which is used, often rather vaguely,
to designate any function, feature, or organ of the body or mind.

CHROMOSOME (color body, so called from its affinity for certain stains), a body of peculiar
protoplasm, in the nucleus of the cell. Each species has its own characteristic number; the
cells of the human body contain 24 chromosomes each.

CONGENITAL (with birth), present at birth. The term fails to distinguish between traits which
are actually inherited, and modifications acquired during prenatal life. In the interest of
clear thinking its use should be avoided so far as possible.

CORRELATION (together relation), a relation between two variables in a certain population,
such that for every variation of one, there is a corresponding variation of the other. Mathematically,
two correlated variables are thus mutually dependent. But a correlation is merely a statistical
description of a particular case, and in some other population the same two variables might
be correlated in a different way, other influences being at work on them.

CYTOLOGY (cell word), the study of the cell, the constituent unit of organisms.

DETERMINER (completely end), an element or condition in a germ-cell, supposed to be essential
to the development of a particular quality, feature, or manner of reaction of the organism
which arises from that germ-cell. The word is gradually falling into disuse, and "factor" taking
its place.

DOMINANCE (mastery), in Mendelian hybrids the capacity of a character which is derived from
only one of two generating gametes to develop to an extent nearly or quite equal to that exhibited
by an individual which has derived the same character from both of the generating gametes.
In the absence of dominance the given character of the hybrid usually presents a "blend" or
intermediate condition between the two parents.

DYSGENIC (bad origin), tending to impair the racial qualities of future generations; the opposite
of eugenic.

ENDOGAMY (within mating), a custom of some primitive peoples, in compliance with which a man
must choose his wife from his own group (clan, gens, tribe, etc.).

EUGENIC (good origin), tending to improve the racial qualities of future generations, either
physical or mental.

EUTHENIC (good thriving), tending to produce beneficial acquired characters or better conditions
for people to live in, but not tending (except incidentally and indirectly) to produce people
who can hand on the improvement by heredity.

EVOLUTION (unroll), ORGANIC, the progressive change of living forms, usually associated with
the development of complex from simple forms.

EXOGAMY (out mating), a custom of primitive peoples which requires a man to choose a wife from
some other group (clan, gens, tribe, etc.) than his own.

FACTOR (maker), a name given to the hypothetical something, the independently inheritable element
in the germ-cell, whose presence is necessary to the development of a certain inherited character
or characters or contributes with other factors to the development of a character. "Gene" and
"determiner" are sometimes used as synonyms of factor.

FEEBLE-MINDEDNESS, a condition in which mental development is retarded or incomplete. It is
a relative term, since an individual who would be feeble-minded in one society might be normal
or even bright in another. The customary criterion is the inability of the individual, because
of mental defect existing from an early age, to compete on equal terms with his normal fellows,
or to manage himself or his affairs with ordinary prudence. American students usually distinguish
three grades of mental defect: Idiots are those who are unable to take care of themselves,
even to the extent of guarding against common physical dangers or satisfying physical needs.
Their mentality does not progress beyond that of a normal two-year-old child. Imbeciles can
care for themselves after a fashion, but are unable to earn their living. Their mental ages
range from three to seven years, inclusive. Morons, who correspond to the common acceptation
of the term feeble-minded, "can under proper direction become more or less self-supporting
but they are as a rule incapable of undertaking affairs which demand judgment or involve unrestricted
competition with normal individuals. Their intelligence ranges with that of normal children
from seven to twelve years of age." There is necessarily a considerable borderline, but any
adult whose intelligence is beyond that of the normal twelve-year-old child is usually considered
to be not feeble-minded.

GAMETE (mate), a mature germ-cell; in animals an ovum or spermatozoön.

GENETICS (origins), for a long time meant the study of evolution by experimental breeding and
was often synonomous with Mendelism. It is gradually returning to its broader, original meaning
of the study of variation and heredity, that is, the origin of the individual's traits. This
broader meaning is preferable.

GERMINAL (sprig), due to something present in the germ-cell. A trait is germinal when its basis
is inherited,--as eye color,--and when it develops with nothing more than the standard environment;
remaining relatively constant from one generation to another, except as influenced by reproduction.

GERM-PLASM (sprig form), mature germ-cells and the living material from which they are produced.

HÆMOPHILIA (blood love), an inability of the blood to clot. It thus becomes impossible to stop
the flow of blood from a cut, and one who has inherited hæmophilia usually dies sooner or later
from hæmorrhage.

HEREDITY (heirship), is usually considered from the outside, when it may properly be defined
as organic resemblance based on descent, or the correlation between relatives. But a better
definition, based on the results of genetics, looks at it as a mechanism, not as an external
appearance. From this point of view, heredity may be said to be "the persistence of certain
cell-constituents (in the germ-cells) through an unending number of cell-divisions."

HETEROZYGOTE (different yolk), a zygotic individual which contains both members of an allelomorphic
pair.

HOMOZYGOTE (same yolk), an individual which contains only one member of an allelomorphic pair,
but contains that in duplicate, having received it from both parents. A homozygous individual,
having been formed by the union of like gametes, in turn regularly produces gametes of only
one kind with respect to any given factor, thus giving rise to offspring which are, in this
regard, like the parents; in other words, homozygotes regularly "breed true." An individual
may be a homozygote with respect to one factor and a heterozygote with respect to another.

HORMONES (chain), the secretions of various internal glands, which are carried in the blood
and have an important specific influence on the growth and functioning of various parts of
the body. Their exact nature is not yet understood.

INBORN usually means germinal, as applied to a trait, and it is so used in this book. Strictly
speaking, however, any trait which appears in a child at birth might be called inborn, and
some writers, particularly medical men, thus refer to traits acquired in prenatal life. Because
of this ambiguity the word should be carefully defined when used, or avoided.

INHERENT (in stick), as used in this book, is synonymous with germinal.

INDUCTION (in lead), a change brought about in the germ-plasm with the effect of temporarily
modifying the characters of an individual produced from that germ-plasm; but not of changing
in a definite and permanent way any such germ-plasm and therefore any individual inherited traits.

INNATE (inborn), synonymous with inborn.

LATENT (lie hidden), a term applied to traits or characters whose factors exist in the germ-plasm
of an individual, but which are not visible in his body.

LAW, in natural science means a concise and comprehensive description of an observed uniform
sequence of events. It is thus quite different from the law of jurists, who mean a rule laid
down for the guidance of an intelligent being, by an intelligent being having power over him.

MENDELISM, a collection of laws of heredity (see Appendix D) so-called after the discoverer
of the first of them to become known; also the analytical study of heredity with a view to
learning the constitution of the germ-cells of animals and plants.

MENDELIZE, to follow Mendel's laws of inheritance.

MORES (customs), the approved customs or unwritten laws of a people; the conventions of society;
popular usage or folk-ways which are reputable.

MUTATION (change), has now two accepted meanings: (1) a profound change in the germ-plasm of
an organism such as will produce numerous changes in its progeny; and (2) a discontinuous heritable
change in a Mendelian factor. It is used in the first sense by De Vries and other "mutationists"
and in the second sense by Morgan and other Mendelists; confusion has arisen from failure to
note the difference in usage.

