"I'se shure thankful to Mr. Lincoln foah whut he dun foah us folks, but dat Jeff Davis, well
I ain't sayin' whut I'se thinkin'."

"De is jes' like de worl', der is lots o' good an' lots o' bad in it."

WPA in Ohio Federal Writers' Project

Topic: Ex-Slavery Jefferson Co, District #2

FLEMING CLARK Ex-Slave, 74+ in years

My father's name wuz Fleming Clark and my mother's name wuz Emmaline Clark. Both of dem wuz
in slavery. Der massa's name wuz David Bowers. I don't know where dey cum from but dey moved
to Bad Creek after slavery days.

Der wuz three of us chillun. Charles, de oldest, den Anthony next and den me, de youngest.
I wuz workin' for a white man and wuz old enough to drive cows and work in de 'bacco fields,
pickin' worms off de leaves. De other brudders worked wid my father on another plantation.
De house where I lived wid de white Massa Lewis Northsinge and his Missus, wuz a log house
wid just two rooms. I had just a little straw tick and a cot dat de massa made himself and
I hed a common quilt dat de missus made to cover me.

I hear dat my grandmother died during slavery and dat my grandfather wuz killed by his massa
during slavery.

On Sunday I would go home and stay wid my father and mother and two brothers. We would play
around wid ball and marbles. We had no school or church. We were too far away for church.

I earned no money. All I got wus just my food and clothes. I wuz leasted out to my massa and
missus. I ate corn bread, fat hog meat and drank butter milk. Sometimes my father would catch
possum and my mother would cook them, and bring me over a piece. I used to eat rabbit and fish.
Dey used to go fishin' in de creek. I liked rabbit and groundhog. De food wuz boiled and roasted
in de oven. De slaves have a little patch for a garden and day work it mostly at night when
it wuz moonlight.

We wore geans and shirts of yellow cotton, we wore no shoes up til Christmas. I wore just de
same during de summer except a little coat. We had no under shirt lik we have now. We wore
de same on Sunday. Der wuz no Sunday suit.

De mass and missus hed one boy. De boy wuz much older than I. Dey were all kind to me. I remember
plenty poor white chillun. I remember Will and John Nathan. Dey were poor white people.

My massa had three plantations. He had five slaves on one and four on another. I worked on
one with four slaves. My father worked on one wid my brother and mother. We would wake up at
4 and 5 o'clock and do chores in de barn by lamp light. De overseer would ring a bell in de
yeard, if it wuz not too cold to go out. If it wuz too cold he would cum and knock on de door.
It wuz 8 or 9 o'clock fore we cum in at night. Den we have to milk de cows to fore we have supper.

De slaves were punished fore cumin' in too soon and unhitching de horses. Dey would bend dem
accross a barrel and switch dem and den send dem back to de fields.

I head dem say dey switch de blood out of dem and salt de wound den dey could not work de next day.

I saw slaves sold. Dey would stand on a block and men would bid for dem. De highest bidder
bought de slaves. I saw dem travel in groups, not chained, one white man in front and one in
back. Dey looked like cattle.

De white folks never learned me to read or write.

Der were petrollers. Dey were mean if dey catch you out late at night. If a slave wus out late
at night he had to have a notice from his massa. Der wuz trouble if de slaves were out late
at night or if dey run off to another man.

De slaves worked on Saturday afternoons. Dey stay in de cabins on Saturday nights and Sundays.
We worked on New Years day. De massa would give us a little hard cider on Christmas day. Dey
would give a big supper at corn huskin' or cotton pickin' and give a little play or somethin'
lik dat.

I remember two weddings. Dey hed chicken, and mutton to eat and corn bread. Dey all ganged
round de table. Der wur milk and butter. I remember one wedding of de white people. I made
de ice cream for dem. I remember playin' marbles and ball.

Sometimes a racer snake would run after us, wrap round us and whip us with its tail. The first
one I remember got after me in de orchard. He wrapped right round me and whipped me with his tail.

My mother took care of de slaves when dey were sick. You had to be awful sick if dey didn't
make you go out. Dey made der own medicine in those days. We used asafetida and put a piece
in a bag and hung it round our necks. It wuz supposed to keep us from ketchin' diseases from
anyone else.

When freedom cum dey were all shoutin' and I run to my mother and asked her what it wuz all
bout. De white man said you are all free and can go. I remember the Yankee soldier comin' through
the wheat field.

My parents lived very light de first year after de war. We lived in a log cabin. De white man
helped dem a little. My father went to work makin' charcoal. Der wuz no school for Negroes
and no land that I remember.

I married Alice Thompson. She wuz 16 and I wuz 26. We hed a little weddin' down in Bushannon,
Virginny. A Baptist preacher named Shirley married us. Der were bout a dozen at de weddin'.
We hed a little dancin' and banjo play in'. I hed two chillun but dey died and my wife died
a long, long time ago.

I just heard a little bout Abraham Lincoln. I believe he wuz a good man. I just hed a slight
remembrance of Abraham Lincoln and Jefferson Davis. I have heard of Booker T. Washington, felt
just de same bout him. A pretty good man.

I think it wuz a great thing that slavery anded, I would not lik to see it now.

I joined de Baptist church but I have been runnin' round from place to place. We always prosper
and get along with our fellowmen if we are religious.

De overseer wuz poor white trash. His rules were you hed to be out on de plantation before
daylight. Sometimes we hed to sit around on de fence to wait for daylight and we did not go
in before dark. We go in bout one for meals.

K. Osthimer, Author Aug 12, 1937

Folklore: Stories from Ex-Slaves Lucas County, District Nine Toledo, Ohio

The Story of MRS. HANNAH DAVIDSON.

Mrs. Hannah Davidson occupies two rooms in a home at 533 Woodland Avenue, Toledo, Ohio. Born
on a plantation in Ballard County, Kentucky, in 1852, she is today a little, white-haired old
lady. Dark, flashing eyes peer through her spectacles. Always quick to learn, she has taught
herself to read. She says, "I could always spell almost everything." She has eagerly sought
education. Much of her ability to read has been gained from attendance in recent years in WPA
"opportunity classes" in the city. Today, this warm-hearted, quiet little Negro woman ekes
out a bare existence on an old age pension of $23.00 a month. It is with regret that she recalls
the shadows and sufferings of the past. She says, "It is best not to talk about them. The things
that my sister May and I suffered were so terrible that people would not believe them. It is
best not to have such things in our memory."

"My father and mother were Isaac and Nancy Meriwether," she stated. "All the slaves went under
the name of my master and mistress, Emmett and Susan Meriwether. I had four sisters and two
brothers. There was Adeline, Dorah, Alice, and Lizzie. My brothers were Major and George Meriwether.
We lived in a log cabin made of sticks and dirt, you know, logs and dirt stuck in the cracks.
We slept on beds made of boards nailed up.

"I don't remember anything about my grandparents. My folks were sold around and I couldn't
keep track of them.

"The first work I did out from home was with my mistress's brother, Dr. Jim Taylor, in Kentucky,
taking care of his children. I was an awful tiny little somethin' about eight or nine years
old. I used to turn the reel for the old folks who was spinning. That's all I've ever known--work.

"I never got a penny. My master kept me and my sister Mary twenty-two long years after we were
supposed to be free. Work, work, work. I don't think my sister and I ever went to bed before
twelve o'clock at night. We never got a penny. They could have spared it, too; they had enough.

"We ate corn bread and fat meat. Meat and bread, we kids called it. We all had a pint tin cup
of buttermilk. No slaves had their own gardens.

"The men just wore jeans. The slaves all made their own clothes. They just wove all the time;
the old women wove all the time. I wasn't old enough to go in the field like the oldest children.
The oldest children--they worked. After slavery ended, my sister Mary and me worked as ex-slaves,
and we worked. Most of the slaves had shoes, but us kids used to run around barefoot most of
the time.

"My folks, my master and mistress, lived in a great, white, frame house, just the same as a
hotel. I grew up with the youngest child, Mayo. The other white children grew up and worked
as overseers. Mayo always wanted me to call him 'Master Mayo'. I fought him all the time. I
never would call him 'Master Mayo'. My mistress wouldn't let anyone harm me and she made Mayo
behave.

"My master wouldn't let the poor white neighbors--no one--tell us we was free. The plantation
was many, many acres, hundreds and hundreds of acres, honey. There were about twenty-five or
thirty families of slaves. They got up and stood until daylight, waiting to plow. Yes, child,
they was up early. Our folks don't know how we had to work. I don't like to tell you how we
were treated--how we had to work. It's best to brush those things out of our memory.

"If you wanted to go to another plantation, you had to have a pass. If my folks was going to
somebody's house, they'd have to have a pass. Otherwise they'd be whipped. They'd take a big
man and tie his hands behind a tree, just like that big tree outside, and whip him with a rawhide
and draw blood every whip. I know I was scared every time I'd hear the slave say, 'Pray, Master.'

"Once, when I was milking a cow, I asked Master Ousley, 'Master Ousley, will you do me a favor?'

"He said in his drawl, 'Of course I will.'

"'Take me to McCracken County,' I said. I didn't even know where McCracken County was, but
my sister was there. I wanted to find my sister. When I reached the house where my sister stayed,
I went through the gate. I asked if this was the house where Mary Meriwether lived. Her mistress
said, 'Yes, she's in the back. Are you the girl Mr. Meriwether's looking for?" My heart was
in my mouth. It just seemed I couldn't go through the gate. I never even saw my sister that
time. I hid for a while and then went back.

"We didn't have any churches. My master would come down Sunday morning with just enough flour
to make bread. Coffee, too. Their coffee was parts of meal, corn and so on. Work all week and
that's what they had for coffee.

"We used to sing, 'Swing low, sweet chariot'. When our folks sang that, we could really see
the chariot.

"Once, Jim Ferguson, a colored man, came to teach school. The white folks beat and whipped
him and drove him away in his underwear.

"I wanted so hard to learn to read, but I didn't even know I was free, even when slavery was ended.

"I been so exhausted working, I was like an inch-worm crawling along a roof. I worked till
I thought another lick would kill me. If you had something to do, you did it or got whipped.
Once I was so tired I couldn't work any more. I crawled in a hole under the house and stayed
there till I was rested. I didn't get whipped, either.

"I never will forget it--how my master always used to say, 'Keep a nigger down' I never will
forget it. I used to wait on table and I heard them talk.

"The only fun we had was on Sunday evening, after work. That was the only chance we got. We
used to go away off from the house and play in the haystack.

"Our folks was so cruel, the slaves used to whisper 'round. Some of them knew they was free,
even if the white folks didn't want 'em to find out they was free. They went off in the woods
sometimes. But I was just a little kid and I wasn't allowed to go around the big folks.

"I seen enough what the old folks went through. My sister and I went through enough after slavery
was over. For twenty-one long years we were enslaved, even after we were supposed to be free.
We didn't even know we were free. We had to wash the white people's feet when they took their
shoes off at night--the men and women.

"Sundays the slaves would wash out their clothes. It was the only time they had to themselves.
Some of the old men worked in their tobacco patches. We never observed Christmas. We never
had no holidays, son, no, sir! We didn't know what the word was.

"I never saw any slave funerals. Some slaves died, but I never saw any of them buried. I didn't
see any funerals at all.

"The white folks would come down to the cabins to marry the slaves. The master or mistress
would read a little out of a book. That's all there was to it.

"We used to play a game called 'Hulgul'. We'd play it in the cabins and sometimes with the
white children. We'd hold hazelnuts in our hands. I'd say 'Hulgul' How many? You'd guess. If
you hit it right, you'd get them all and it would be your turn to say 'Hulgul'. If you'd say
'Three!' and I only had two, you'd have to give me another to make three.

"The kids nowadays can go right to the store and buy a ball to play with. We'd have to make
a ball out of yarn and put a sock around it for a cover. Six of us would stay on one side of
a house and six on the other side. Then we'd throw the ball over the roof and say 'Catch!'
If you'd catch it you'd run around to the; other side and hit somebody, then start over. We
worked so hard we couldn't play long on Sunday evenings.

"School? We never seen the inside of a schoolhouse. Mistress used to read the Bible to us every
Sunday morning.

"We say two songs I still remember.

"And as soon as we got through singing those songs, we had to get right out to work. I was
always glad when they called us in the house to Sunday school. It was the only chance we'd
get to rest.

"When the slaves got sick, they'd take and look after themselves. My master had a whole wall
of his house for medicine, just like a store. They made their own medicines and pills. My mistress's
brother, Dr. Jim Taylor, was a doctor. They done their own doctoring. I still have the mark
where I was vaccinated by my master.

"People was lousy in them days. I always had to pick louses from the heads of the white children.
You don't find children like that nowadays.

"My mistress had a little roan horse. She went all through the war on that horse. Us little
kids never went around the big folks. We didn't watch folks faces to learn, like children do
now. They wouldn't let us. All I know about the Civil War was that it was goin' on. I heard
talk about killin' and so on, but I didn't know no thin' about it.

"My mother was the last slave to get off the plantation. She travelled across the plantation
all night with us children. It was pouring rain. The white folks surrounded her and took away
us children, and gave her so many minutes to get off the plantation. We never saw her again.
She died away from us.

"My brother came to see us once when slavery was over. He was grown up. My master wasn't going
to let him see us and he took up his gun. My mistress said he should let him see us. My brother
gave me a little coral ring. I thought it was the prettiest thing I ever saw.

"I made my sister leave. I took a rolling pin to make her go and she finally left. They didn't
have any more business with us than you have right now.

"I remember when Yankee soldiers came riding through the yard. I was scared and ran away crying.
I can see them now. Their swords hung at their sides and their horses walked proud, as if they
walked on their hind legs. The master was in the field trying to hide his money and guns and
things. The soldiers said, 'We won't hurt you, child.' It made me feel wonderful.

"What I call the Ku Klux were those people who met at night and if they heard anybody saying
you was free, they would take you out at night and whip you. They were the plantation owners.
I never saw them ride, but I heard about them and what they did. My master used to tell us
he wished he knew who the Ku Kluxers were. But he knew, all right, I used to wait on table
and I heard them talking. 'Gonna lynch another nigger tonight!'

"The slaves tried to get schools, but they didn't get any. Finally they started a few schools
in little log cabins. But we children, my sister and I, never went to school.

"I married William L. Davison, when I was thirty-two years old. That was after I left the plantation.
I never had company there. I had to work. I have only one grandchild still living, Willa May
Reynolds. She taught school in City Grove, Tennessee. She's married now.

"I thought Abe Lincoln was a great man. What little I know about him, I always thought he was
a great man. He did a lot of good.

"Us kids always used to sing a song, 'Gonna hang Jeff Davis to a sour apple tree as we go marchin'
home.' I didn't know what it meant at the time.

"I never knew much about Booker T. Washington, but I heard about him. Frederick Douglass was
a great man, too. He did lots of good, like Abe Lincoln.

"Well, slavery's over and I think that's a grand thing. A white lady recently asked me, 'Don't
you think you were better off under the white people?' I said 'What you talkin' about? The
birds of the air have their freedom'. I don't know why she should ask me that anyway.

"I belong to the Third Baptist Church. I think all people should be religious. Christ was a
missionary. He went about doing good to people. You should be clean, honest, and do everything
good for people. I first turn the searchlight on myself. To be a true Christian, you must do
as Christ said: 'Love one another'. You know, that's why I said I didn't want to tell about
my life and the terrible things that I and my sister Mary suffered. I want to forgive those
people. Some people tell me those people are in hell now. But I don't think that. I believe
we should all do good to everybody."

Betty Lugabell, Reporter [TR: also reported as Lugabill] Harold Pugh, Editor R.S. Drum, Supervisor
Jun 9, 1937

Folklore: Ex-Slaves Paulding Co., District 10

MARY BELLE DEMPSEY Ex-Slave, 87 years

"I was only two years old when my family moved here, from Wilford county, Kentucky. 'Course
I don't remember anything of our slave days, but my mother told me all about it."

"My mother and father were named Sidney Jane and William Booker. I had one brother named George
William Booker."

"The man who owned my father and mother was a good man." He was good to them and never 'bused
them. He had quite a large plantation and owned 26 slaves. Each slave family had a house of
their own and the women of each family prepared the meals, in their cabins. These cabins were
warm and in good shape."

"The master farmed his land and the men folks helped in the fields but the women took care
of their homes."

"We had our churches, too. Sometimes the white folks would try to cause trouble when the negroes
were holding their meetings, then a night the men of the church would place chunks and matches
on the white folks gate post. In the morning the white folks would find them and know that
it was a warning if they din't quit causing trouble their buildings would be burned."

"There was a farm that joined my parents' master's place and the owner was about ready to sell
the mother slave with her five small children. The children carried on so much because they
were to be separated that the mistress bought them back although she had very little money
to spare."

"I don't know any more slave stories, but now I am getting old, and I know that I do not have
long to live, but I'm not sorry, I am, ready to go. I have lived as the Lord wants us to live
and I know that when I die I shall join many of my friends and relatives in the Lord's place.
Religion is the finest thing on earth. It is the one and only thing that matters."

Former Slave Interview, Special Aug 16, 1937

Butler County, District #2 Middletown

MRS. NANCE EAST 809 Seventeenth Ave., Middletown, Ohio

"Mammy" East, 809 Seventeenth Ave., Middletown, Ohio, rules a four-room bungalow in the negro
district set aside by the American Rolling Mill Corporation. She lives there with her sons,
workers in the mill, and keeps them an immaculate home in the manner which she was taught on
a Southern plantation. Her house is furnished with modern electrical appliances and furniture,
but she herself is an anachronism, a personage with no faith in modern methods of living, one
who belongs in that vague period designated as "befo' de wah."

"I 'membahs all 'bout de slave time. I was powerful small but my mother and daddy done tole
me all 'bout it. Mother and daddy bofe come from Vaginny; mother's mama did too. She was a
weaver and made all our clothes and de white folks clothes. Dat's all she ever did; just weave
and spin. Gran'mama and her chilluns was sold to the Lett fambly, two brothers from Monroe
County, Alabama. Sole jist like cows, honey, right off the block, jist like cows. But they
was good to they slaves.

"My mother's last name was Lett, after the white folks, and my daddy's name was Harris Mosley,
after his master. After mother and daddy married, the Mosleys done bought her from the Letts
so they could be together. They was brother-in-laws. Den I was named after Miss Nancy. Dey
was Miss Nancy and Miss Hattie and two boys in the Mosleys. Land, honey, they had a big (waving
her hands in the air) plantation; a whole section; and de biggest home you done ever see. We
darkies had cabins. Jist as clean and nice. Them Mosleys, they had a grist mill and a gin.
They like my daddy and he worked in de mill for them. Dey sure was good to us. My mother worked
on de place for Miss Nancy."

Mammy East, in a neat, voile dress and little pig-tails all over her head, is a tall, light-skinned
Negro, who admits that she would much rather care for children than attend to the other duties
of the little house she owns; but the white spreads on the beds and the spotless kitchen is
no indication of this fact. She has a passion for the good old times when the Negroes had security
with no responsibility. Her tall, statuesque appearance is in direct contrast to the present-day
conception of old southern "mammmies."

"De wah, honey? Why, when dem Yankees come through our county mother and Miss Nancy and de
rest hid de hosses in de swamps and hid other things in the house, but dey got all the cattle
and hogs. Killed 'em, but only took the hams. Killed all de chickens and things, too. But dey
didn't hurt the house.

"After de wah, everybody jist went on working same as ever. Then one day a white mans come
riding through the county and tole us we was free. Free! Honey, did yo' hear that? Why we always
had been free. He didn't know what he was talking 'bout. He kept telling us we was free and
dat we oughtn't to work for no white folks 'less'n we got paid for it. Well Miss Nancy took
care of us then. We got our cabin and a piece of ground for a garden and a share of de crops.
Daddy worked in de mill. Miss Nancy saw to it that we always had nice clothes too.

"Ku Klux, honey? Why, we nevah did hear tell of no sich thing where we was. Nevah heered nothin'
'bout dat atall until we come up here, and dey had em here. Law, honey, folks don't know when
dey's well off. My daddy worked in de mill and save his money, and twelve yeahs aftah de wah
he bought two hundred and twenty acres of land, 'bout ten miles away. Den latah on daddy bought
de mill from de Mosleys too. Yas'm, my daddy was well off.

"My, you had to be somebody to votes. I sure do 'membahs all 'bout dat. You had to be edicated
and have money to votes. But I don' 'membahs no trouble 'bout de votin'. Not where we come
from, no how.

"I was married down dere. Mah husband's fust name was Monroe after the county we lived in.
My chilluns was named aftah some of the Mosleys. I got a Ed and Hattie. Aftah my daddy died
we each got forty acahs. I sold mine and come up here to live with my boys.

"But honey dis ain't no way to raise chilluns. Not lak dey raised now. All dis dishonesty and
stealin' and laziness. No mam! Look here at my gran'sons. Eatin' offen dey daddy. No place
for 'em. Got edication, and caint git no jobs outside cuttin' grass and de like. Down on de
plantation ev'body worked. No laziness er 'oneriness, er nothin! I tells yo' honey, I sure
do wish these chilluns had de chances we had. Not much learnin', but we had up-bringin'! Look
at dem chilluns across de street. Jist had a big fight ovah dere, and dey mothah's too lazy
to do any thing 'bout it. No'm, nevah did see none o' dat when we was young. Gittin' in de
folkeses hen houses and stealing, and de carryins on at night. No mam! I sure do wish de old
times was here.

"I went back two-three yeahs ago, to de old home place, and dere it was, jist same as when
I was livin' with Miss Nancy. Co'se, theys all dead and gone now, but some of the gran'chilluns
was around. Yas'm, I membahs heap bout dem times."

Miriam Logan, Reporter Lebanon, Ohio

Warren County, District 21

Story of WADE GLENN from Winston-Salem North Carolina: (doesn't know his age)

"Yes Madam, I were a slave--I'm old enough to have been born into slavery, but I was only a
baby slave, for I do not remember about slavery, I've just heard them tell about it. My Mammy
were Lydia Glenn, and father were Caesar Glenn, for they belonged to old Glenn. I've heard
tell he were a mean man too. My birthday is October 30th--but what year--I don't know. There
were eight brothers and two sisters. We lived on John Beck's farm--a big farm, and the first
work for me to do was picking up chips o' wood, and lookin' after hogs.

"In those days they'd all kinds of work by hand on the farm. No Madam, no cotton to speak of,
or tobacco then. Just farmin' corn, hogs, wheat fruit,--like here. Yes Madam, that was all
on John Beck's farm except the flax and the big wooley sheep. Plenty of nice clean flax-cloth
suits we all had.

"Beck wasn't so good--but we had enough to eat, wear, and could have our Saturday afternoon
to go to town, and Sunday for church. We sho did have church, large meetin'--camp meetin'--with
lot of singin' an shoutin' and it was fine! Nevah was no singer, but I was a good dancer in
my day, yes--yes Madam I were a good dancer. I went to dances and to church with my folks.
My father played a violin. He played well, so did my brother, but I never did play or sing.
Mammy sang a lot when she was spinning and weaving. She sing an' that big wheel a turnin.'

  "When I can read my title clear,
  Up Yonder, Up Yonder, Up Yonder!

and another of her spinnin' songs was a humin:--

  "The Promise of God Salvation free to give..."

"Besides helpin' on the farm, father was ferryman on the Yadkin River for Beck. He had a boat
for hire. Sometimes passengers would want to go a mile, sometimes 30. Father died at thirty-five.
He played the violin fine. My brother played for dances, and he used to sing lots of songs:--

  "Ol' Aunt Katy, fine ol' soul,
  She's beatin' her batter,
  In a brand new bowl...

--that was a fetchin' tune, but you see I can't even carry it. Maybe I could think up the words
of a lot of those ol' tunes but they ought to pay well for them, for they make money out of
them. I liked to go to church and to dances both. For a big church to sing I like 'Nearer My
God to Thee'--there isn't anything so good for a big crowd to sing out big!

"Father died when he was thirty-five of typhoid. We all had to work hard. I came up here in
1892--and I don't know why I should have, for Winston-Salem was a big place. I've worked on
farm and roads. My wife died ten years ago. We adopted a girl in Tennennesee years ago, and
she takes a care of me now. She was always good to us--a good girl. Yes, Madam."

Wade Glenn proved to be not nearly so interesting as his appearance promised. He is short;
wears gold rimmed glasses; a Southern Colonel's Mustache and Goatee--and capitals are need
to describe the style! He had his comical-serious little countenance topped off with a soft
felt hat worn at the most rakish angle. He can't carry a tune, and really is not musical. His
adopted daughter with whom he lives is rated the town's best colored cook.

Ohio Guide, Special Ex-Slave Stories August 16, 1937

DAVID A. HALL

"I was born at Goldsboro, N.C., July 25, 1847. I never knew who owned my father, but my mother's
master's name was Lifich Pamer. My mother did not live on the plantation but had a little cabin
in town. You see, she worked as a cook in the hotel and her master wanted her to live close
to her work. I was born in the cabin in town.

"No, I never went to school, but I was taught a little by my master's daughter, and can read
and write a little. As a slave boy I had to work in the military school in Goldsboro. I waited
on tables and washed dishes, but my wages went to my master the sane as my mother's.

"I was about fourteen when the war broke out, and remember when the Yankees came through our
town. There was a Yankee soldier by the name of Kuhns who took charge of a Government Store.
He would sell tobacco and such like to the soldiers. He was the man who told me I was free
and then give me a job working in the store.

"I had some brothers and sisters but I do not remember them--can't tell you anything about them.

"Our beds were homemade out of poplar lumber and we slept on straw ticks. We had good things
to eat and a lot of corn cakes and sweet potatoes. I had pretty good clothes, shoes, pants
and a shirt, the same winter and summer.

"I don't know anything about the plantation as I had to work in town and did not go out there
very much. No, I don't know how big it was or how many slaves there was. I never heard of any
uprisings either.

"Our overseer was 'poor white-trash', hired by the master. I remember the master lived in a
big white house and he was always kind to his slaves, so was his wife and children, but we
didn't like the overseer. I heard of some slaves being whipped, but I never was and I did not
see any of the others get punished. Yes, there was a jail on the plantation where slaves had
to go if they wouldn't behave. I never saw a slave in chains but I have seen colored men in
the chain gang since the war.

"We had a negro church in town and slaves that could be trusted could go to church. It was
a Methodist Church and we sang negro spirituals.

"We could go to the funeral of a relative and quit work until it was over and then went back
to work. There was a graveyard on the plantation.

"A lot of slaves ran away and if they were caught they were brought back and put in the stocks
until they were sold. The master would never keep a runaway slave. We used to have fights with
the 'white trash' sometimes and once I was hit by a rock throwed by a white boy and that's
what this lump on my head is.

"Yes, we had to work every day but Sunday. The slaves did not have any holidays. I did not
have time to play games but used to watch the slaves sing and dance after dark. I don't remember
any stories.

"When the slaves heard they had been set free, I remember a lot of them were sorry and did
not want to leave the plantation. No, I never heard of any in our section getting any mules
or land.

"I do remember the 'night riders' that come through our country after the war. They put the
horse shoes on the horses backwards and wrapped the horses feet in burlap so we couldn't hear
them coming. The colored folks were deathly afraid of these men and would all run and hide
when they heard they were coming. These 'night riders' used to steal everything the colored
people had--even their beds and straw ticks.

"Right after the war I was brought north by Mr. Kuhns I spoke of, and for a short while I worked
at the milling trade in Tiffin and came to Canton in 1866. Mr. Kuhns owned a part in the old
flour mill here (now the Ohio Builders and Milling Co.) and he give me a job as a miller. I
worked there until the end of last year, 70 years, and I am sure this is a record in Canton.
No, I never worked any other place.

"I was married July 4, 1871 to Jennie Scott in Massillon. We had four children but they are
all dead except one boy. Our first baby--a girl named Mary Jane, born February 21, 1872, was
the first colored child born in Canton. My wife died in 1926. No, I do not know when she was
born, but I do know she was not a slave.

"I started to vote after I came north but did not ever vote in the south. I do not like the
way the young people of today live; they are too fast and drink too much. Yes, I think this
is true of the white children the same as the colored.

"I saved my money when I worked and when I quit I had three properties. I sold one of these,
gave one to my son, and I am living in the other. No, I have never had to ask for charity.
I also get a pension check from, the mill where I worked so long.

"I joined church simply because I thought it would make me a better man and I think every one
should belong. I have been a member of St. Paul's A.M.E. church here in Canton for 54 years.
Yesterday (Sunday, August 15, 1937) our church celebrated by burning the mortgage. As I was
the oldest member I was one of the three who lit it, the other two are the only living charter
members. My church friends made me a present yesterday of $100.00 which was a birthday gift.
I was 90 years old the 25th of last month."

Hall resides at 1225 High Ave., S.W., Canton, Ohio.

Miriam Logan Lebanon, Ohio

MRS. CELIA HENDERSON, aged 88. Born Hardin County, Kentucky in 1849

(drawing of Celia Henderson) [TR: no drawing found]

"Mah mammy were Julia Dittoe, an pappy, he were name Willis Dittoe. Dey live at Louieville
till mammy were sold fo' her marster's debt. She were a powerful good cook, mammy were--an
she were sol' fo to pay dat debt."

"She tuk us four chillen 'long wid her, an pappy an th' others staid back in Louieville. Dey
tuk us all on a boat de Big Ribber--evah heah ob de big ribber? Mississippi its name--but we
calls it de big ribber."

"Natchez on de hill--dats whaah de tuk us to. Nactchez-on-de-hill dis side of N' Or'leans.
Mammy she have eleven chillen. No 'em, don't 'member all dem names no mo'. No 'em, nevah see
pappy no moah. Im 'member mammy cryin' goin' down on de boat, and us chillen a cryin' too,
but de place we got us was a nice place, nicer den what we left. Family 'o name of GROHAGEN
it was dat got us. Yas'em dey was nice to mammy fo' she was a fine cook, mammy wus. A fine cook!"

