These are peculiar regulations for a province which is at peace, and as Major Taylor has truly
remarked:--

"The form of liberty contemplated by the founders of the Philippine Republic was not considered
incompatible with a very considerable absence of personal freedom." [320]

Later, when travelling through Mindoro, I was told how an unfortunate legless Spaniard, who
had been running a small shop in one of the towns and who was on good terms with his Filipino
neighbors, was carried out into the plaza, seated in a chair, and then cut to pieces with bolos
in the presence of his wife and children who were compelled to witness the horrible spectacle!

On this same trip Captain R.G. Offley, then the American Governor of Mindoro, told me while
I was at Pinamalayan that the people there were greatly alarmed because a murderer, liberated
under the amnesty, had returned and was prowling about in that vicinity. This man had a rather
unique record. He had captured one of his enemies, and after stripping him completely had caused
the top of an immense ant-hill to be dug off. The unfortunate victim was then tied, laid on
it, and the earth and ants which had been removed were shovelled back over his body until only
his head projected. The ants did the rest! Another rather unusual achievement of this interesting
individual was to tie the feet of one of his enemies to a tree, fasten a rope around his neck,
hitch a carabao to the rope, and start up the carabao, thus pulling off the head of his victim.
Yet this man and others like him were set at liberty under the amnesty proclamation, in spite
of the vigorous protests of the Philippine Commission, who thought that murderers of this type
ought to be hanged.

And now I wish to discuss briefly an interesting and highly characteristic statement of Judge
Blount. In referring to conditions in the Visayan Islands, he says:--

"Of course the Southern Islands were a little slower. But as Luzón goes, so go the rest. The
rest of the archipelago is but the tail to the Luzón kite. Luzón contains 4,000,000 of the
8,000,000 people out there, and Manila is to the Filipino people what Paris is to the French
and to France. Luzón is about the size of Ohio, and the other six islands that really matter,
are in size mere little Connecticuts and Rhode Islands, and in population mere Arizonas or
New Mexicos." [321]

This paragraph is no exception to the general rule that the statements of this author will
not bear analysis. One of the other six islands that he says really matters is Samar. Its area
is 5031 square miles. The area of Rhode Island is 1250 square miles. The smallest of the six
islands named is Bohol, with an area of 1411 square miles. It cannot be called a little Rhode
Island.

As regards population, Arizona has 122,931. It is hardly proper to call either Panay with a
population of 743,646, Cebu with 592,247, Negros with 460,776, Leyte with 357,641, Bohol with
243,148 or even Samar with only 222,690, a mere Arizona, and New Mexico with 195,310 is also
a bit behind.

Luzón really has an area of 40,969 square miles and a population of 3,798,507. [322] What Blount
is pleased to call "the tail to the Luzón kite," is made up as follows:--

    Island       Area (Square Miles)   Population
    Samar        5,031                  222,690
    Negros       4,881                  460,776
    Panay        4,611                  743,646
    Leyte        2,722                  357,641
    Cebu         1,762                  592,247
    Bohol        1,411                  243,148
    Totals      20,419                2,620,148

Even so, the tail is a trifle long and heavy for the kite, but if we are going to compare Luzón
with "the Southern Islands," by which Blount can presumably only mean the rest of the archipelago,
why not really do it? The process involves nothing more complicated than the subtraction of
its area and population from those of the archipelago as a whole.

                    Area (Square Miles)    Population
    Philippines     115,026                 7,635,426
    Luzón            40,969                 3,798,507
    Difference       74,057                 3,836,919

Performing this operation, we discover that the tail would fly away with the kite, as Luzón
has less than half of the total population and only a little more than a third of the total area.

To compare the area or the population of one large island with those of individual small ones,
in determining the relative importance of the former in the country of which it makes up a
part, is like comparing the area and population of a great state with those of the individual
counties going to make up other states.

Blount resorts to a similar questionable procedure in trying to show the insignificance of
Mindoro and Palawan. There are an island of Mindoro and a province of Mindoro; an island of
Palawan and a province of Palawan. In each case the province, which includes numerous small
islands, as well as the large one from which it takes its name, is much larger and more populous
than is the main island, and obviously it is the province with which we are concerned.

Even if Blount wished to limit discussion to the Christian natives commonly called Filipinos,
his procedure is still wholly unfair. Of these there are 3,575,001 in Luzón and 3,412,685 in
the other islands. In other words, the Filipino population is almost equally divided between
the two regions.

As he would not have found it convenient to discuss the conditions which arose in Mindanao
under Insurgent rule, he attempts to show that no political importance attaches to them. In
the passage above quoted he does not so much as mention either Mindoro or Palawan (Paragua).
Elsewhere, however, he attempts to justify his action by making the following statements:--

"The political or governmental problem being now reduced from 3141 islands to eleven, the last
three [323] of the nine contained in the above table may also be eliminated as follows: [324]--

"Mindoro, the large island just south of the main bulk of Luzón, pierced by the 121st meridian
of longitude east of Greenwich, is thick with densely wooded mountains and jungle over a large
part of its area, has a reputation of being very unhealthy (malarious), is also very sparsely
settled, and does not now, nor has it ever, cut any figure politically as a disturbing factor."
[325]

Apart from the fact that the political problem involved in the government of the important
islands which Blount would thus leave out of consideration, is not solved by ignoring it, certain
of his further statements cannot be allowed to go uncorrected.

The allegation that the island has never "cut any figure politically as a disturbing factor"
is absurd. In the Spanish days its forests furnished a safe refuge for evildoers who were from
time to time driven out of Cavite and Batangas. A large proportion of its Filipino inhabitants
were criminals who not infrequently organized regular piratical expeditions and raided towns
in Masbate, Romblon and Palawan. The people of the Cuyos and Calamianes groups lived in constant
terror of the Mindoro pirates, and tulisanes, [326] who paid them frequent visits. I myself
have been at Calapan, the capital of the province, when the Spanish officials did not dare
to go without armed escort as far as the outskirts of the town for fear of being captured and
held for ransom. During considerable periods they did not really pretend to exercise control
over the criminal Filipinos inhabiting the west coast of the island. Conditions as to public
order were worse in Mindoro than anywhere else in the archipelago north of Mindanao and Joló.

No less absurd are Blount's suggestions as to the general worthlessness of the island. There
are high mountains in its interior, and there are great stretches of the most fertile land
in the world along its coast. Its northern and eastern portions have a very heavy and evenly
distributed rainfall, and are admirably suited to the growing of cocoanuts, hemp, cacao, rubber
and similar tropical products. In this region rice flourishes wonderfully without irrigation.
There was a time in the past when Mindoro was known as "the granary of the Philippines." Later
its population was decimated by constant Moro attacks, and cattle disease destroyed its draft
animals, with the result that the cultivated lands were abandoned to a considerable extent
and again grew up to jungle, from which, however, it is easy to redeem them. The west coast
has strongly marked wet and dry seasons similar to those at Manila. There is abundant water
available for irrigation, furnished by streams which never run dry. Much of the soil is rich,
and will grow the best of sugar in large quantity. The forests, which now cover extensive areas,
abound in fine woods, and produce rubber and other valuable gums. There are outcroppings of
lignite at numerous points on the island, and in the vicinity of Mt. Halcon is found the finest
marble yet discovered in this part of the world. Gold is also present in some quantity at various
places. In short, Mindoro is naturally one of the richest islands in the Archipelago. If its
tillable lands were under high cultivation, it would support half the population of the Philippines.

Palawan

In endeavouring to show that Palawan is without political importance Blount has followed precisely
the procedure which he adopted in the case of Mindoro. First, he gives the area and the population
of the island, when he should concern himself with the province. The area of the island is
4027 square miles; that of the province, 5238 square miles. According to the 1903 census, the
population of the island was 10,918, while that of the province, which contains such thickly
settled and fertile islands as Cuyo and Agutaya, was 39,582. Of course, if one wishes to emphasize
the unimportance of Palawan, it is more convenient to take the figures for the island.

Blount says:--

"Paragua, [327] the long narrow island seen at the extreme lower left of any map of the archipelago,
extending northeast-southwest at an angle of about 45°, is practically worthless, being fit
for nothing much except a penal colony, for which purpose it is in fact now used." [328]

I must deny the truthfulness of his statements, even if we limit our consideration to the island
of Palawan. Only 159 of its 4027 square miles are utilized for a penal colony. Its natural
wealth is simply enormous. It is covered throughout the greater part of its extent with virgin
forest containing magnificent stands of the best timber. Damar, a very valuable varnish gum,
is abundant in its mountains. Much of the so-called "Singapore cane," so highly prized by makers
of rattan and wicker furniture, comes from its west coast. It is a well-watered island, and
its level plains, which receive the wash from its heavily forested mountains, have a soil of
unsurpassed fertility in which cocoanuts come to bearing in five years or even less. Incidentally,
the greater part of the island lies south of the typhoon belt. Malampaya Sound, situated near
its northwestern extremity, is one of the world's great harbors. But should we wish to rid
ourselves of this wonderful island, I may say, without violating any official confidences,
that there was a time when Germany would have been more than pleased to take it off our hands;
and indeed our British friends, who were sufficiently interested in it to survey it some decades
ago, might possibly be prevailed upon to accept it!

There are good reasons why Blount thought it convenient to make it appear that Palawan was
politically unimportant. Shortly after the outbreak of hostilities with Spain the Filipino
garrison at Puerto Princesa mutinied, and the things which they did were not nice. Among others,
they liberated the convicts, Puerto Princesa being at the time a penal colony, and the latter,
together with some of the soldiers, started up the east coast of the island, leaving a trail
of devastation in their wake. The prosperous town of Tinitian was abandoned as they approached
it, and was so thoroughly cleaned out by them that it has never since been reoccupied except
by a few stragglers. Other towns, including Tay-Tay, were raided.

On November 27, 1899, Aguinaldo's representative in this province wrote him that the inhabitants
were preparing to kill all the Tagálogs and revolt against Insurgent rule. [329] Later when
some of the latter were anxious to get the people of one of the northern settlements to take
them on a short boat journey, these Visayans consented to give them a lift only on condition
that they first allow themselves to be bound, and then took them out to sea and threw them
overboard.

Another thing which Blount would have found it inconvenient to discuss is the conduct of the
people of Cuyo, at one time the capital of the province. On this island, which contains but
twenty-one square miles, there were in 1903 no less than 7545 inhabitants. They hated and feared
the people of Mindoro and sent messengers to Iloilo, after the Americans had occupied that
place, to beg for a garrison of American troops, and to say that if furnished with an American
flag they themselves would defend it. For some reason they were not given the flag, and the
sending of a garrison was long delayed. Having grown weary of waiting, they made an American
flag of their own, hoisted it, and when the Insurgents from Mindoro came intrenched themselves
and defended it. They were actually being besieged when the American garrison finally arrived.
Here is one more fact inconsistent with the theory that the Filipino people were a unit at
Aguinaldo's back, and of course the easiest way to get around such an occurrence is to forget
to mention it!

Mindanao

And now we come to the great island of Mindanao, which all but equals Luzón in size, having
an area of 36,292 square miles as against the 40,969 of Luzón. Blount's first mention of it
is peculiar.

In connection with the words "the other six islands that really matter," in the passage above
cited on page 116 of his book, he has inserted a foot-note reading as follows:--

"The six main Visayan Islands. Mohammedan Mindanao is always dealt with in this book as a separate
and distinct problem." [330]

But it was hardly possible for him to dismiss this great island, which is a little continent
by itself, quite so cavalierly and I will quote the more important of his further and later
statements regarding it:--

"While the great Mohammedan island of Mindanao, near Borneo, with its 36,000 square miles of
area, requires that the Philippine archipelago be described as stretching over more than one
thousand miles from north to south, still, inasmuch as Mindanao only contains about 500,000
people all told, half of them semi-civilized, the governmental problem it presents has no more
to do with the main problem of whether, if ever, we are to grant independence to the 7,000,000
Christians of the other islands, than the questions that have to be passed on by our Commissioner
of Indian Affairs have to do with the tariff. Mindanao's 36,000 square miles constitute nearly
a third of the total area of the Philippine archipelago, and more than that fraction of the
97,500 square miles of territory to a consideration of which our attention is reduced by the
process of elimination above indicated. Turning over Mindanao to those crudely Mohammedan semi-civilized
Moros would indeed be 'like granting self-government to an Apache reservation under some local
chief,' as Mr. Roosevelt, in the campaign of 1900, ignorantly declared it would be to grant
self-government to Luzón under Aguinaldo. Furthermore, the Moros, so far as they can think,
would prefer to owe allegiance to, and be entitled to recognition as subjects of, some great
nation. Again, because the Filipinos have no moral right to control the Moros, and could not
if they would, the latter being fierce fighters and bitterly opposed to the thought of possible
ultimate domination by the Filipinos, the most uncompromising advocate of the consent of the
governed principles has not a leg to stand on with regard to Mohammedan Mindanao. Hence I affirm
that as to it, we have a distinct separate problem, which cannot be solved in the lifetime
of anybody now living. But it is a problem which need not in the least delay the advent of
independence for the other fourteen fifteenths of the inhabitants of the archipelago--all Christians
living on islands north of Mindanao. It is true that there are some Christian Filipinos on
Mindanao, but in policing the Moros, our government would of course protect them from the Moros.
If they did not like our government, they could move to such parts of the islands as we might
permit to be incorporated in an ultimate Philippine republic. Inasmuch as the 300,000 or so
Moros of the Mohammedan island of Mindanao and the adjacent islets called Jolo (the 'Sulu archipelago,'
so called, 'reigned over' by the sultan of comic opera fame) originally presented, as they
will always present, a distinct and separate problem, and never did have anything more to do
with the Philippine insurrection against us than their cousins and co-religionists over in
near-by Borneo, the task which confronted Mr. Root in the fall of 1899, to wit, the suppression
of the Philippine insurrection, meant practically the subjugation of one big island, Luzón,
containing half the population and one third of the total area of the archipelago, and six
neighbouring small ones, the Visayan Islands." [331]

Now as a matter of fact Mindanao is by no means Mohammedan. The Mohammedan Malays, called Moros,
are found here and there along the western coast of the Zamboanga peninsula and along the southern
coast of the island as far as Davao. They also extend far up the Cotabato River and occupy
the Lake Lanao region, but that is all. The interior of the island is for the most part occupied
by the members of a number of non-Christian, non-Mohammedan tribes, while its northern and
eastern coasts are inhabited by Visayan Filipinos, of whom there are many in Zamboanga itself.

While, as Blount says, the Moros took no part in the insurrection against the United States,
the Visayans of Mindanao did, and we had some lively tussles with them in Misamis and in Surigao.

It is indeed unthinkable that we should turn Mindanao over to the Moros. Abandonment of it
by us would in the end result in this, as they would take possession of the entire island in
the course of time. Neither the other wild tribes nor the Filipinos could stand against them.
I heartily agree with the conclusion that we must retain this island for many years before
we can settle the problems which it presents. It is further true that we might retain it and
still grant independence to the remainder of the Philippine Archipelago, but if we are to eliminate
Mindanao from consideration because the Filipinos have no right to control the Moros, of whom
there are in reality only about a hundred and fifty-four thousand [332] on the island, and
could not if they would, what about Luzón, where there are in reality no less than four hundred
and sixty thousand non-Christians, [333] many of whom, like the Ifugaos, Bontoc Igorots, Kalingas
and wild Tingians, are fierce fighters and practically all of whom are bitterly opposed to
the thought of possible ultimate domination by Filipinos, while most of them welcome American rule?

Have the Filipinos any more moral right to control them than they have to control the Moros?
Could they control them if they would? And has the most uncompromising advocate of the consent
of the governed principle "a leg to stand on" in the one case if he lacks it in the other?

The Filipino politicians are not ready to admit that Filipinos could not satisfactorily govern
Moros and have even alleged that they did so govern them during the period now under discussion.
Let us examine the facts.

Aguinaldo attempted to enter into negotiations with the Sultan of Joló, addressing him as his
"great and powerful brother," [334] but this brother does not seem to have received his advances
with enthusiasm, and the other brothers proceeded to do things to the Filipinos at the first
opportunity.

José Roa in writing Aguinaldo on January 26, 1899, of conditions in the province of Misamis
says: [335]--

"Hardly had said evacuation of Iligan taken place on the 28th of last month, when the Moros
or Mohammedans of the interior, our mortal enemies since times immemorial on account of their
religious fanaticism which they carry to extremes, as do their co-religionists in Europe and
Asia, and on account of their objection to leading a civilized life, began to harry the town
of Iligan which is the nearest town to the lake around which is the densest Moro population.
Due to the prestige of the local president of that town, Señor Carloto Sariol, and the energy
that he showed, after some days of constant firing against groups who descended upon the suburbs
of the town, he was successful in having them abandon their hostile attitude and promise to
live in peace and harmony with said towns, this verbal agreement being participated in by the
Dattos of some settlements who did not wish to treat with the Spanish Government.

"Being acquainted nevertheless with these people, we know by experience that the more friendly
they appear, the more we must watch against them, because as soon as they find a good opportunity
they do not fail to take advantage of it to enter the towns for the purpose of sacking them
and kidnapping as many of their inhabitants as possible in order to reduce them to slavery."

Immediately after the abandonment of Cotabato by the Spaniards the Filipino residents set up
a government there. A few days later the Moro datos, Piang, Ali and Djimbangan, dropped in
with their followers, cut off the head of the Filipino presidente, served a few other leading
officials and citizens in the same manner, and proceeded to set up a government of their own
which was the only government that the place had prior to the arrival of the American troops.

Dato Djimbangan promptly caused the Filipina women of the place to be stripped and compelled
to march before him on the public plaza in a state of nudity.

At Zamboanga the Moros could have taken the town at any time after the Spaniards left had they
desired to do so. On the arrival of the Americans Dato Mandi offered to take it and turn it
over to them, but his proposition was declined.

He subsequently swore to an affidavit relative to conditions under Insurgent rule. It reads
as follows:--

"We always had peace in Zamboanga District; except during the revolution of the Filipinos in
the year 1899, when for seven or eight months there was in existence the so-called Filipino
Republic. During that time there was much robbing and killing; the life of a man was worth
no more than that of a chicken; men killed one another for personal gain; enemies fought one
another with the bolo instead of settling their differences before the law. It was a time of
bloodshed and terror. There was no justice. Because of this the Moros were opposed to the Filipinos.
There was conflict between the better class of Filipinos and the revolutionists, who had gained
control of the local government." [336]

Elsewhere throughout the Moro territory those Filipinos who did not promptly make their escape
were murdered or enslaved. In short, the lion and the lamb lay down together, with the lamb
inside as usual.

Thus it will be seen that this first and last attempt of Filipinos to govern Moros did not
result in complete success.

Baldomero Aguinaldo made a subsequent attempt to open communication with the Sultan of Joló,
authorizing him to establish in all the rancherias of Mindanao and Joló a government in accordance
with a decree duly transmitted. The Sultan was requested to report the result of his efforts
and to give the number of his forces with their arms, and was advised that, "if in this war,
which I consider to be the last, we secure our independence and with the opposition of our
brothers in that region, with yourself at their head, we are successful in preventing the enemy
from gaining a foothold, the grateful country will always render a tribute of homage and gratitude
to your memory." [337] Curiously, the Sultan seems to have remained unmoved by the appeal.

Masbate

This tight little island of 1236 square miles had in 1903 a Visayan population of 29,451. Its
people are all Filipinos, and are on the whole rather an unusually orderly and worthy set.
There is no reason why it should have been excluded in considering "the human problem in its
broader governmental aspect," whatever that may be, nor can I understand why Blount should
have desired to exclude it except that he seems to have been endeavouring to exclude everything
possible outside of Luzón, in order to increase the apparent importance of the Christian provinces
of that island. Masbate should of course be taken into account in connection with the Visayan
Islands, of which it is one.

The islands ordinarily included in the group known as "The Visayas" from the ancient tribal
name of the civilized Filipino people who inhabit them, who are called Visayans, are Samar,
Panay, Negros, Leyte, Cebú, Bohol, Masbate, Tablas, Romblon, Ticao, Burias, Siquijor and numerous
smaller islands adjacent to those named. Although their inhabitants are all rated as one people,
they speak a number of more or less distinct dialects. Only Panay, Negros, Samar, Tablas and
Sibuyan have non-Christian inhabitants, and in the three islands last named their number is
so small as to be negligible. In the mountains of Panay and Negros, however, Negritos are to
be found in considerable numbers, as are the representatives of a tribe sometimes called Monteses
[338] and sometimes Bukidnon. The latter tribal designation I have thought it best to reserve
for certain inhabitants of northern Mindanao.

In the Visayas, Palawan and Mindanao the government of Aguinaldo was established at various
places and different times, without consulting or considering the will of the people. The men
who went as his delegates were supported by armed forces, hence their authority was not at
first questioned, but soon there arose murmurings which might easily have grown into a war cry.

The attitude of the Visayan Filipinos is clearly foreshadowed in the following extract from
a letter dated January 14, 1899, in which Mabini discussed the advisability of putting the
constitution in force:--

"And even if this change is made, I fear that Negros and Iloílo will form a federal Republic
and not one in conformity with the centralized Republic provided for by the Constitution." [339]

The action later taken by Negros shows that there was abundant reason for this fear.

As late as February 26, 1899, the Insurgent government was still ignorant as to the real conditions
in Negros and Mindanao. [340]

From a letter written on March 18, 1899, to Apacible at Hongkong, we learn that Aguinaldo and
his followers were even then still uninformed as to events in the Visayan Islands. [341] In
view of these facts, how ridiculous become the contentions of those who claim that the Malolos
government represented the archipelago as a whole. And what shall we say of the following statement,
remembering that the Treaty of Paris was signed December 10, 1899?

"When the Treaty of Paris was signed, General Otis was in possession of Cavite and Manila,
with less than twenty thousand men under his command, and Aguinaldo was in possession of practically
all of the rest of the archipelago with between 35,000 and 40,000 men under his command, armed
with guns, and the whole Filipino population were in sympathy with the army of their country."
[342]

Ultimately, by one means or another, and chiefly by the use of armed emissaries, the Visayan
Islands, with the exception of Negros, were brought into the Insurgent fold.

Mabini's fear that Negros and Iloilo would form a federal republic was not realized, but Negros
set up its own government, applied to the local commander of the United States forces for help,
endeavoured with almost complete success to keep out Tagálog invaders, and presently settled
down contentedly under American rule, facts of which Blount makes no mention. On the contrary,
without just cause, he includes this great island, with its 4881 square miles of territory
and its 560,776 inhabitants, in the area over which he claims that Aguinaldo exercised complete
control.

At Iloilo the American troops encountered opposition when they planned to land. Negotiations
had been entered into with the local Filipino officers, but the latter, under the influence
of representatives whom Aguinaldo had sent from Luzón, announced themselves as adherents of
his government, and when the American troops finally disembarked fired the town ahead of them.
It has been claimed that in doing this they were inspired by pure patriotism, but the facts
shown by their own records present a very different picture.

In writing to Aguinaldo on April 8, 1899, Mabini says:

"We have received a communication forwarded from Iloílo, from General Martin Delgado and Francisco
Soriano, your commissioner. Soriano states that the troops of Diocno have done nothing except
commit excesses and steal money during the attack by the Americans upon the town of Iloílo,
even going so far as to break their guns by using them as poles to carry the stolen money which
they took to Cápiz. It is said that these forces, besides being unwilling to fight the Americans,
refuse to give their guns to those who do wish to fight and do not want Cápiz to aid the people
of Iloílo, who are the ones who support the entire forces, including the troops of Diocno who
went there." [343]

This same letter contains the following brief reference to conditions in Cebu and Leyte:--

"Also a native priest, Señor Pascual Reyes, has arrived here from Cebú, and says that in Leyte
General Lucban is committing many abuses and that Colonel Mójica is only a mere figurehead.
In Cebú, he says, things are also in a chaotic condition, because the military chief, Magsilum
[Maxilom,--TR.], and the people are not in harmony."

Further details as to conditions in Cebu are given in a letter to Aguinaldo from the commissioner
whom he put in charge of elections in that island, who on February 19, 1899, writes: [344]--

"Having arrived in this province the 8th of last month, I left on the 11th for the northern
pueblos of this Island to hold the elections for the offices ordered by the Superior Decree
of June 18, last.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The news spread like an electric spark, as in all the pueblos I visited later I found that
almost all of the residents were in their homes, so that when the elections were held in the
town hall, all the principal residents attended, requesting me to inform you that they were
disposed to sacrifice even their dearest affections whenever necessary for our sacred cause;
they only asked me to inform those who hold the reins of government at the present time in
this province, that some steps be taken to put a stop to the arbitrary acts which had been
and still are being committed by the so-called Captains, Majors, Colonels, Generals and Captains
General, who abusing in the most barefaced manner the positions they claimed to hold, were
depriving them of their horses and their carabaos, or cattle. I promised them that I would
do this, as I do now, by sending a communication at once to Sres. Flores and Maxilom, who are
at the head of the provincial government, impressing upon them the fact that if they continue
to grant ranks and titles to persons of this character, as they have done, it would end in
the utter ruin of this wealthy province."

He adds that these men did not remedy the evils complained of. It would be possible to cover
in detail all of this and the remaining Insurgent territory, and to show that Judge Blount
was quite right in stating that conditions similar to those encountered in Luzón arose there,
but the limitations of time and space forbid, and I must ask my readers to accept on faith
the statements of Blount and myself that such was the case!

Taylor thus summarizes the conditions which ultimately arose:--

"The Insurgent soldiers lived in their own land as they would have lived in a conquered country.
They were quartered on the towns and the towns had to feed them whether they would or not.

"Peace there was where Aguinaldo's soldiers had not penetrated, but there does not seem to
have been progress. Life went very well in a long siesta in the shady villages under the palm
trees, but not only the structure of the State, its very foundations were falling apart. When
Aguinaldo's soldiers came they brought cruelty and license with them. Proud of their victories
and confident in themselves they felt that the labourers in the fields, the merchants in the
towns, were for the purpose of administering to their necessities and their desires. Aguinaldo,
having seen this force gather about him, was forced to entreat it, to appeal to it; he was
never strong enough to enforce discipline, even if he cared to do it."

Aguinaldo himself finally became disheartened over his inability to maintain a decent state
of public order in the territory which he claimed to govern, and in December, 1898, tendered
his resignation, giving among other reasons odious favouritism on the part of some of the military
chiefs, together with a desire to enrich themselves by improper means, such as accepting bribes,
making prisoners a source of gain, and decreasing the allowance of the soldiers. He said that
many soldiers had received sums of money as their share of booty, and intimated that officers
must have done the same. He made charges against civil as well as military officers and ended
by saying that he retained the evidence for presentation when called on. [345]

Aguinaldo was later persuaded to withdraw his resignation. No wonder that he wished to tender
it! [346]

He thus gives it to be understood that the admiral believed that the report truthfully set
forth the conditions which actually existed in these provinces, and that his indorsement was
suppressed. Not only was it true that this report when rendered contained the most complete
and reliable information then available in regard to the existing state of the northern part
of Luzon Island, but it contained the only first-hand information available. The facts ultimately
leaked out and led the admiral radically to change his opinion as to the conditions which arose
under Insurgent rule.

I believe that I have fully demonstrated the truth of these statements. Blount was thoroughly
familiar with Dewey's testimony before the Senate Committee, in which they occur, but he did
not mention them.

I cannot close this discussion of Insurgent rule without quoting extracts from a remarkable
document written by Isabelo Artacho in October, [347] 1899. It was entitled "Declaration Letter
and Proclamation" and was addressed to the Filipino people. While it is probable that Artacho
was impelled to tell the truth by his hatred for Aguinaldo, tell the truth he did, and his
rank and standing entitle his statements to consideration:--

"Study the work of the insurrection; see if it is, as is said, the faithful interpretation
of your wishes and desires.

"Go through your towns, fields, and mountains. Wherever you see an insurgent gun or bolo you
will find girls and faithful wives violated, parents and brothers crying for the murder of
a son or of a brother; honest families robbed and in misery; villages burned and plundered
for the benefit of a chief or a General; you will see fresh and living signs yet of those horrible
crimes perpetrated with the greatest cynicism by those who call themselves your liberators!
Liberators because they wear red pants, or a red shirt, or carry on their hats a piece of red
cloth or a triangular figure!

"Here, a president stabs a man, perhaps the most honest of the village, simply for having implored
mercy for a creature arbitrarily inflicted with the cepo [an oblong square piece of heavy wood
divided into two parts, with a lock at each end and six or more holes in the middle to confine
the feet of prisoners]; there, a dying man, suspended by the feet in a cepo, raised from the
level of the ground, by another president who has charged him with an unproved crime; there
a poor woman falsely charged and driven by petty officers with their bayonets for having objected
to their invasion into her house, or shop, they being supposed to be, each, Justice itself,
'Justicia,' and to be obeyed as images of the Gods; there, generals who murder without fear,
for an insignificant motive, creatures whose members are being mutilated, or their flesh cut
in slices and afterwards roasted and given them to eat; there, officers braining a girl who
has refused to accede to their sensual wishes, the lifeless body of the victim, pierced with
shots, after having been made use of, is thrown into the river. It is not unusual to witness
officers burying people alive in a tomb prepared by the victim, by order of the murderer; it
is not unusual to see a Puisne-Judge pointing a revolver at a man who is about to give evidence,
and threatening to brain him for having dared to ask: 'Why and to whom am I to declare?' And
finally, on his tottering throne, you will see the Magistrate of the Philippines, so called
by his worshippers, with his mephistophelian smile, disposing and directing the execution of
a murder, of a plunder, of a robbery, or the execution of some other crimes against those who
are indifferent or do not care to worship him, such indifference being considered a crime.

"Putting aside the many other murders, I may mention that one recently committed on the person
of the renowned and by many called the worthy General, Antonio Luna, which took place just
at the entrance of the palace of the Republic Presidency, and also the assassination at Kavite
of the ever remembered martyr, Andrés Bonifacio, the founder of the 'Katipúnan' Society, and
the one who initiated the Revolution of 1896; against the memory of whom it has been committed,
in the proclamation of that falsely called Republic, the criminal and unjust omission to render
the smallest manifestation of Filipinos' feelings towards him, to prevent that same might dislike
his murderers!

"Study the ordinances and constitution of this so-called democratic Government of the Republic,
that grand work of the wise Filipinos; admire with me that beautiful monument erected on a
sheet of paper and consecrated to the conquest of reason and labour, especially in connection
with human rights and property, the basis for the well-being of social life; but, lament and
deplore with me its palpable nullity when brought to practice and you will again see that the
laws were made for the people and not the people for the laws!

"Under this republic called democratic it is a crime to think, to wish, to say, anything which
does not agree with what the said Gods think, wish and say. Nobody and nothing is attended
to, whilst those who have your lives in their hands must be respected.

"Under this Goverment there cannot be the slightest notice taken of family, property, morality
and iustice, but confusion and disorder appear everywhere like a dreadful shadow, produced
by the ignorance of the subordinate officers, and of the powers that be in the villages and
provinces, who are supported by a special committee, or special commissioners empowered to
impoverish and to ruin all and with the right of disposing, at their own accord, life, family
and individual property without responsibility whatsoever on their part.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Let the peaceful annexation of the whole of the Southern Islands of Joló, Mindanao, Iloílo,
Negros, Cebú and others where now the American flag is hoisted and under whose shadow tranquillity
and well-being are experienced, speak for itself.

"Let it speak for itself, the proceeding observed by the whole people of Imus, who were asking
protection when the American troops took possession of the town of Bacoor, whilst the insurgent
troops there located were hostile.

"Let them speak for themselves, the protests against the war made by the numerous persons of
S. Francisco de Malabón, Sta. Cruz de Malabón, Perez Dasmariñias and other towns, before the
Worthy Chief Mariano Trías, who ultimately refused, with dignity, the high position of Secretary
of War, for which rank he was promoted for reasons which are not worth publishing here. In
fine, let it speak for itself, the non-resistance shown by the people of Old Kavite [Kawit],
Noveleta, and Rozario of the heroic province of Kavite, notwithstanding the many intrenchments
and troops there located, as well as the identical behaviour observed by other towns of Luzon
provinces who are ready to follow when the American troops are in them.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

"In fact no one would believe it, and the Philippine people are tired of waiting for the day
when Haring Gavino will shake a napkin to produce suddenly horses vomiting fire and lightning
and troops of dangerous insects; that day in which they will witness the realization of that
famous telegraphed dream to the effect that two hours after the commencement of the war the
insurgents will take their breakfast in the Palace of 'Malacañang,' their tiffin in the Senate
House, and their dinner on board the Olympia or in Kavite; that day in which the celebrated
Pequenines army, with their invisible Chief-leader, will exterminate the American troops by
means of handfuls of dust and sand thrown at them, which process, it is said, has caused the
smallpox to the Americans; that day in which the Colorum army will capture the American fleet
with the cords their troops are provided with, in combination with a grand intrenchment of
Tayabas made of husks of paddy, by a Nazarene, who will then, by merely touching, convert each
husk into a Bee with a deadly sting; that day in which the insurgents, like their leaders,
provided with hosts of flour, or of paper, pieces of candles of the holy-week matins, holy
water, pieces of consecrated stones; of vestments belonging to a miraculous Saint or with some
other Anting-Anting or talisman or amuletos, will make themselves invulnerable to bullets;
also have power to convert into any of the four elements, like those personages of the Philippine
legends and comedies,--Ygmidio, Teñoso, Florante, Barnardo, Carpio, etc.

"Yes, the people of the Philippines are quite tired of waiting for the predicted European conflict,
which it is said would give them their independence; if not, perhaps, divide the Islands as
they are now amongst cousins, brothers, nephews, uncles and godfathers.

"In the near future, when we have acquired the necessary political and social education and
the habit of behaving justly towards ourselves and towards our fellow-brothers; when free from
all superstition, healthy, strong and vigorous, we find ourselves capable of governing ourselves,
without there being the possibility of the preponderance of our passions in the consideration,
direction, and administration of the interests of our country, then, and only then, we will
be free! we will be independent! [348]

"Hongkong, 1st October, 1899."

Most of the men who perpetrated the outrages I have detailed are alive to-day, and are powers
in their respective communities. Simeon Villa was recently elected a member of the municipal
board from the south district of Manila, but fortunately an American governor-general prevented
him from taking his seat. Just prior to my departure from Manila he was appointed, by Speaker
Osmeña, a member of a committee on reception for Governor-General Harrison.

The kind of independent "government" these men established is the kind that they would again
establish if they had the chance, [349] but among the persons to be tortured and murdered would
now be those Americans who failed to escape seasonably. I do not mean to say that such a state
of affairs would come about immediately, but it would certainly arise within a comparatively
short time. Sooner yet "the united Filipino people" would split up on old tribal lines, and
fly at each other's throats.

CHAPTER VIII

Did We Destroy a Republic?

The claim has frequently been made that the United States government destroyed a republic in
the Philippine Islands, [350] but some of the critics seem to entertain peculiar ideas as to
what a republic is. Blount states [351] that Aguinaldo declined to hear our declaration of
independence read "because we would not recognize his right to assert the same truths," and
then apparently forgetting the Insurgent chief's alleged adherence to the principles of this
dacument, he lets the cat out of the bag by saying that "the war satisfied us all that Aguinaldo
would have been a small edition of Porfirio Diaz," and would himself have been "The Republic."
[352]

He would doubtless have set up just this sort of a government, if not assassinated too soon,
but it would hardly have accorded with the principles of the declaration of independence, nor
would it have been exactly "a government of the people, by the people, for the people."

Blount truly says [353] that the educated Filipinos, admittedly very few in number, absolutely
control the masses. He adds [354] that presidentes of pueblos are as absolute bosses as is
Murphy in Tammany Hall, and that the towns taken collectively constitute the provinces. The
first statement is true, and the second, which is tantamount to a declaration that the presidentes
control every square foot of the provinces and every man in them, is not so far from the truth
as it might be. I have been old-fashioned enough to retain the idea that a republic is "a state
in which the sovereign power resides in the whole body of the people, and is exercised by representatives
elected by them."

Blount labored under no delusion as to the fitness of the common people to govern. [355]

Not only did the Filipinos themselves understand perfectly well that they had no republic,
but there were many of them who were fully aware of the fact that they could establish none.
Fernando Acevedo, in writing to General Pío del Pilar on August 8, 1898, said: [356]--

"There could be no republic here, even though the Americans should consent, because, according
to the treaties, the Filipinos are not in condition for a republic. Besides this, all Europe
will oppose it, and if it should be that they divide our country as though it were a round
cake, what would become of us and what would belong to us?"

I will now trace the evolution of the government which Aguinaldo did set up. In doing so I
follow Taylor's argument very closely, drawing on his unpublished Ms., not only for ideas,
but in some instances for the words in which they are clothed. I change his words in many cases,
and do not mean to unload on him any responsibility for my statements, but do wish to acknowledge
my indebtedness to him and at the same time to avoid the necessity for the continual use of
quotation marks.

Aguinaldo's methods in establishing his republic are shown by his order [357] that "any person
who fights for his country has absolute power to kill any one not friendly to our cause" and
the further order [358] prescribing that twelve lashes should be given to a soldier who lost
even a single cartridge, while if he continued to waste ammunition he should be severely punished.
In March, 1899, workmen who had abandoned their work in the arsenal at Malolos were arrested,
returned, given twenty-five lashes each and then ordered to work. [359]

The news that an American expedition was about to sail for the Philippines made him realize
that he had not much more than a month in which to place himself in a position in which he
would have to be consulted and assisted, and this he tried to do. The arms he received from
Hongkong on May 23 enabled him to begin an insurrection, not as an ally of the United States,
but on his own account. From May 21 to May 24 he issued orders for the uprising against Spain.
On May 24 he declared himself Dictator of the Philippines in a proclamation in which he promised
to resign his power into the hands of a president and cabinet, to be appointed when a constitutional
assembly was convened, which would be as soon as the islands had passed into his control. He
further announced that the North American nation had given its disinterested protection in
order that the liberty of the Philippines should be gained. [360] On May 25, 1898, the first
American troops sailed from San Francisco for the Philippines.

Aguinaldo still had a month in which to seize enough Spanish territory to erect thereon what
would appear to the Americans on their arrival to be a government of Luzón, of which he was
the head. The Hongkong junta and Aguinaldo himself intended to ask for the recognition of their
government, but they had first to create it. To obtain recognition it was necessary that the
American commander on land should be able to report that wherever he or his troops had gone
the country was ruled by Aguinaldo according to laws which showed that the people were capable
of governing themselves.

As the United States is a republic it was natural that the directing group of insurgent leaders
should decide upon a republican form of government. That form would appeal to the people of
the United States; the first "Christian Asiatic Republic" was a description which would inevitably
awaken sympathy in that mother of republics. The idea was a wise and subtle one; but Aguinaldo's
republic was merely an elaborate stage-setting, arranged for the contemplation of the people
of the United States.

By June 5, 1898, the success of the insurgent arms had been such that Aguinaldo felt that he
could throw down the mask. He would still be glad of American assistance, but he felt himself
strong enough to do without it. He saw that "there can now be proclaimed before the Filipino
people and the civilized nations its only aspiration, namely, the independence of this country,
which proclamation should not be delayed for any ulterior object of this government" [361]
and ordered that the independence of the Philippines should be proclaimed at his birthplace,
Cavite Viejo, on June 12, 1898. On that date he formally proclaimed it. The provinces of Cavite,
Bataan, Pampanga, Batangas, Bulacan, Laguna and Morong were about to fall into his hands, the
Spanish troops in them being besieged, and about to surrender.

From the same place on June 18, 1898, Aguinaldo promulgated his decree for the creation and
administration of municipalities. [362] In brief, this provided that as soon as the territory
of the archipelago, or any portion thereof, had passed from the possession of Spanish forces,
the people in the towns who were most conspicuous for their intelligence, social position and
upright conduct were to meet and elect a town government. The heads of the towns in every province
were to elect a head for the province and his three counsellors. The provincial council, composed
of these four officials, with the presidente of the capital of the province, were to see to
the execution in that province of the decrees of the central government and to advise and suggest.

This provincial council was to elect representatives for the revolutionary congress, which
was to be charged with submitting suggestions to the central government upon interior and exterior
affairs, and was to be heard by the government upon serious matters which admitted of delay
and discussion.

Before any person elected to office was permitted to discharge his functions, his election
was to be approved by the central government. The military commanders, except in time of war,
were to have no jurisdiction over the civil authorities. They could, however, demand such supplies
as they might need, and these could not be refused. The government was to appoint commissioners
to carry these regulations into effect.

On June 20 Aguinaldo issued his regulations for the government of provinces and municipalities
[363] as supplemental to the decree of two days before. It went into the details of government,
under the following heads: police, justice, taxation and registration of property.

On June 23 he proclaimed the establishment of a revolutionary government, with himself as "president."
In this capacity he had all the powers of the Spanish governor-general, unhampered by any orders
from Spain. It is true that the scheme provided for the eventual formation of a republic, but
it is doubtful if the people who drew it up really knew what that word meant. What was provided
for in practice was a strong and highly centralized military dictatorship, in which, under
the form of election, provision was made for the filling of all offices by men devoted to the
group which had seized control.

According to this decree the dictatorial government was in future to be entitled the revolutionary
government. Its duty was to struggle for the independence of the Philippines in order to estabish
a true republic. The dictator was to be known as the president of the revolutionary government.
There were to be four secretaries--one of foreign affairs, commerce and marine; one of war
and public works; one of police and interior order, justice, education and hygiene; one of
the treasury, agriculture and manufactures. The government could increase the number of secretaries
if necessary. They were to assist the president in the despatch of business coming under their
departments.

In addition to the president and his secretaries, there was to be a revolutionary congress
composed of representatives from the provinces of the Philippine Archipelago, elected as provided
by the decree of June 18. In case a province was not able to elect representatives, the government
would appoint them for such province. The congress was to discuss and advise, to approve treaties
and loans, and to examine and approve the accounts of the secretary of the treasury. If important
matters admitted of delay, the congress would be heard concerning them; but if they did not
admit of delay, the president of the government was to act at once. Projects of law could be
presented by any representative, and by the secretaries of the government.

A permanent committee of congress presided over by the vice-president was to be chosen by that
body. This was to serve as a court of appeal in criminal cases and as a court of final jurisdiction
in cases arising between the secretaries of the government and provincial officials. The acts
of congress were not to go into effect until the president of the government ordered their
execution. He was also to have the right of veto.

This was a well-devised plan to secure control for the central group about Aguinaldo. His commissioners,
under a form of election in which the electors were carefully selected men, established municipal
governments devoted to the cause of the revolution. These were to choose provincial officials
and members of the congress. All elections were subject to Aguinaldo's approval, and every
province was under the command of a military representative of his, who could and did call
upon the civil authorities for such supplies as he deemed fit. All real power was vested in
the central group, and the central group was composed of Emilio Aguinaldo and his public and
private advisers. By this time he had gathered about him men who were trained in the law, some
of whom had served the Spanish government in various capacities. They were accustomed to the
methods that had previously prevailed under the Spanish régime, and were now ready to draw
up constitutions and regulations for the new government. Mabini wrote the three organic decrees.
Copies of them were sent to the foreign consuls in Manila, and on July 15, 1898 to Admiral Dewey.

Although the title of "president" was assumed by Aguinaldo, as more likely to be favourably
considered in the United States than "dictator," the tendency of his followers who had not
been educated in Europe was to speak of and to regard him not as a president, but as an overlord
holding all power in his hands. The people did not feel themselves citizens of a republic,
copartners in an estate; they considered themselves subject to a ruler who sometimes called
himself president, and sometimes dictator. Indeed, there is much to show that if Aguinaldo
and his followers had succeeded in their plans, even the name "republic" would not have been
long continued as the title of his government. The most perfect order and tranquillity reign
in these provinces, governed by authorities elected by the inhabitants in conformity with the
organic decrees dated June 18 and 23 last. Moreover, the revolution has about nine thousand
prisoners of war who are treated humanely and according to the rules of civilized warfare.
We can muster more than thirty thousand men organized as a regular army."

It may have been that in the majority of these provinces municipal governments, formed in accordance
with the provisions of the decree of June 18, had been established; but provincial governments
had not been established in all of them, and tranquillity did not reign in any of them, as
they were the scene of operations against the Spaniards. There could not well have been nine
thousand prisoners in his hands at this time, as that was claimed later when a large additional
number of Spaniards had surrendered. As for the thirty thousand men organized as a regular
army, there may be a certain difference of opinion as to what constitutes a regular army; the
men who saw Aguinaldo's force then, and who have read the papers of its leaders, must be of
the opinion that that force was not a regular army. Probably only Manila Province had a provincial
government on August 6. Its local presidentes met at Cavite Viejo on August 3 and elected three
members of congress from the province, and also the members of the provincial government. The
election took place under the supervision of Colonel Teodoro Gonzales, whom Aguinaldo had appointed
governor of Manila Province on August 1. He remained governor after the election was held.
Not until August 17 did the local presidentes of Bulacan assemble under the presidency of the
secretary of the interior and proceed to elect two members to congress and the members of the
provincial government. Not until August 20 was there an election for the members of the provincial
government of Cavite Province. This was held in the town of Cavite. Isaac Fernando Rios, who
was afterwards a member of the Filipino junta in Madrid, was chosen a representative of the
province; but as he wrote that he was in favour of coming to some agreement with Spain which
would permit the development of the Philippines, without abandoning the sovereignty of that
country, Aguinaldo promptly disapproved his election [366] and ordered a new one held for the
office thus left vacant. On October 2, 1899, Aguinaldo approved the result of a new election
held there because four of the five high officials of the province had absented themselves,
while one of them had died. Of the men who had so absented themselves one had gone abroad,
while the other three had remained in Manila or Cavite under the government of the United States.
[367]

The people of the provinces obeyed the men who had arms in their hands. It is not probable
that many of them had any conviction concerning the form of government which would be best
for the Philippines. There were no signs of a spontaneous desire for a republic. Orders came
from the group about Aguinaldo, and the people accepted a dictator and a republic as they accepted
a president and a republic, without knowing, and probably without caring very much, what it
all meant, except that they hoped that taxes would cease with the departure of the friars.
A determined and well-organized minority had succeeded in imposing its will upon an unorganized,
heterogeneous, and leaderless majority.

As soon as a province was occupied by the Insurgents it was divided into territorial zones
within which command was exerted by military officers. On July 20, 1898, Cavite had been divided
into four zones, and next day Brigadier-General Artemio Ricarte was placed in command of the
province and the first zone.

By July 7 Bulacan Province had been divided into six zones, and Nueva Ecija into four zones,
with a separate commander for each zone. These men established the government prescribed by
Aguinaldo's decrees of the middle of June. Probably by the end of July Aguinaldo's municipal
governments had been established in the greater part of the towns of Luzón. These governments
were not established by the mass of the people. The mass of the people were not consulted,
but they were not in the habit of being consulted in such matters and probably saw no necessity
for it in this case. As an evidence of this we have the fact that from the beginning the acts
of election were almost always drawn up in Spanish, although by far the greater portion of
the people of the archipelago spoke only the native dialects.

The method of establishing these municipal governments employed in Cavite in June, 1898, was
continued to the end of Aguinaldo's rule. It was the same in different places and at different
times. Data obtained from reports and documents written in towns far removed from each other
follow. They must be considered together in order to obtain an idea of what this method really was.

When the Insurgent movement had progressed sufficiently far, the leaders collected their adherents
and obtained recognition as the heads of their provinces or districts. [368] The town of Macabebe
refused to send any delegates to this gathering. Commissioners, in almost every case officers
of Aguinaldo's army, were empowered by him to establish the so-called republican government.
They appointed delegates who proceeded to the smaller towns and held elections; but whenever
possible the commissioner of Aguinaldo presided. In many cases these delegates were lieutenants
of the army. The commissioners selected the electors, for they had all to be "marked out by
their good conduct, their wealth, and their social position," and they had all to be in favour
of independence. They then presided at the elections, which were viva voce. They apparently
selected the people to be elected, and forwarded a record of the proceedings to the central
government. The election had to be approved by the dictator or president before the successful
candidates could assume the duties of their offices. Later on, the military commanders remote
from the seat of government were authorized to approve elections and install the successful
candidates, but the records of election had even then to be forwarded to the capital for approval,
the action of the commissioner not being final.

The commissioners do not seem to have been able to find many men who had the necessary requisites
for electors. In the town of Lipa, Batangas Province, with a population of forty thousand seven
hundred forty-three, at the election held July 3, 1898, a presidente was chosen for whom twenty-five
votes were cast. On November 23, 1898, an election was held at Vigan, Ilocos Sur, for a presidente
to succeed one who had been elected representative in congress. One hundred and sixteen votes
were cast. The population of Vigan is nineteen thousand. On October 5, 1898, at Echague, Isabela
Province, a presidente was elected for whom fifty-four votes were cast. The population of Echague
is fifty-four thousand. On October 2, 1898, at Cabagan Nuevo, Isabela, one hundred and eleven
men voted out of a population of sixty-two hundred and forty. On January 29, 1899, the town
of Hernani, in Samar, elected its municipal officials under the supervision of V. Lukban. Fifty-four
men voted. The town has a population of twenty-five hundred and fifty-five.

The elections, so-called, were not always held without protest. For example, the town of San
José, Batangas, protested unavailingly to Aguinaldo against the result of an election held
at 10 P.M., in a storm of rain. Men who had been on friendly terms with the Spaniards were
usually excluded from all participation. If in spite of the precautions taken men were elected
who were disliked by the commissioner or his supporters, the election could be set aside on
the ground that the person elected was not an adherent of the revolution.

The elections were often held in a singular manner, as in the following case: [369]--

"On August 20, 1898, four men of Tondo appeared before Aguinaldo on Bacoor and announced that
they were representatives of the people of the district, who loved liberty. Then in accordance
with the directions of the president of the republic under the supervision of the secretary
of the interior, they drew lots from a hat to decide how the offices of the head of the district,
delegate of police, delegate of the treasury and delegate of justice were to be distributed.
The decision having been made in this simple fashion, Aguinaldo gravely approved the election
as expressing the will of the people. Perhaps it did, for they seem to have continued, at least
for a time, to obey them. On November 14, 1898, Aguinaldo again approved an election for local
officials in Tondo which since August 13 had been within the American lines."

On August 23 San Carlos, in Pangasinán Province, a town of twenty-three thousand people, elected
its officials under the new form of government. The presidente chosen was a well-known member
of the Katipúnan, and before the election was held announced his intention of killing any one
who was chosen for the position for which he was a candidate. [370] He was accordingly elected.
In spite of this grave informality, an informality which formed one ground for a protest on
the part of some of the people of the town, Aguinaldo approved the election.

On October 21, 1898, an election was held under the supervision of the military commander in
Camarines for the municipal officials of the town of Yriga. [371] The voting was oral, and
a secretary wrote down the votes for the two candidates under direction of the commissioner,
who finally announced that the candidate whose friend he was had been elected, but without
stating how many votes he had received. This newly elected head of the town had the town crier
on the following night publish through the streets an address to the people, in which he thanked
those who had voted for him and warned those who had not that it would be well for them to
beware. The Spanish law known as the Maura Law, which regulated the elections in the municipalities
under the Spanish government, provided for a limited electoral body, composed largely of ex-officials
of the municipalities. The choosing of an electoral body by the military commander of a district
probably did not seem strange to the people. The provincial and municipal officials were established
in office by armed men, and they were obeyed because they had been installed by armed men;
but it was a form of election to which people, as a rule, saw no reason to object. There were,
however, in many cases bitter complaints of the abuses committed by the officers thus "elected."

This form of government spread with the advance of Aguinaldo's arms. Municipal elections were
held in Tarlac in July, in Ilocos Norte and Tayabas in August, in Benguet and the Batanes Islands
in September, 1898, in Panay in December, 1898, and in Leyte and Samar in January, 1899.

On December 27 Antonio Luna wrote that all the provinces of Luzón, Mindoro, Marinduque, Masbate,
and Ticao, Romblón, part of Panay, the Batanes, and Babuyanes Islands were under the jurisdiction
of the insurgent government. [372]

By October 7, 1898, 14 of the 36 provinces and districts into which Luzón had been divided
by the Spanish government had civil governors. [373] These 14 were Tagálog provinces or provinces
which the Tagálogs controlled. The other provinces were still under military rule, and, indeed,
even the provinces under civilians were dominated by their military commanders. With the manner
of holding elections which prevailed, the governors must have been men who were in favour of
the military party in force, for otherwise they would not have been elected. [374]

It is not probable that the number of provinces under civil governors much increased. If in
Pangasinán Province, where there are many Tagálogs, organizations opposed to the rule of Aguinaldo
could cause serious disorders, as was the case, it must have been considered expedient for
the success of the attempt of the Tagálogs, who form only a fifth of the population, to dominate
the archipelago, that all provinces in which an effective majority of the people were not of
that tribe, should be kept under military rule. The municipal governments which had been established
in Luzón were in the hands of Aguinaldo's adherents, or of men who it was hoped would prove
loyal to him. They were men of the Spanish-speaking group, which has always dominated the people
of the islands. They were probably not as a rule men of means. Many of them,   perhaps most
of them, had been clerks and employees under the Spanish government, and they saw no reason
for changing the methods of town administration which had then been followed. The municipal
taxes, the estimates for expenditures, and the regulations for town government, were but little
modified from those they found in force. In many ways such changes as were made were for the worse.

Once installed in power, Aguinaldo's officials were required to exercise over the mass of the
people about the same control that had always been exercised over them. The governing group
considered that they were perfectly capable of providing for the welfare of the islands, and
that it was the duty of the people to obey them without question.

When the insurgent force was increased in preparation for war with the Americans a large number
of municipal officials resigned, or attempted to do so. It was not easy for a municipal official
under Aguinaldo's government to resign. A resignation, to be accepted, had to be accompanied
by the certificate of a physician that the person concerned was unfit to perform the duties
of his office. Judging by the record, [375] an epidemic seems to have attacked the municipal
officials in January, 1899. It is probable that they saw that war was inevitable and that they
did not wish to remain in charge of the towns and be responsible for providing for the necessities
of "the liberating army." In Pangasinán in that month men could not leave their barrios without
obtaining the permission of the headman, and in one town men who had attempted to sell their
property for the purpose of going to Manila were, on January 17, ordered to be arrested and
their conduct investigated. [376]

Aguinaldo, having established himself at Malolos, ordered the congress provided for in his
decree of June 23, 1898, to  assemble at the capital on September 15,1898, and appointed a
number of provisional representatives for provinces and islands not under his control. [377]
It has often been claimed that Aguinaldo's government controlled at this time the whole archipelago,
except the bay and city of Manila and the town of Cavite. [378]

Blount quotes the following statement from the report of the First Philippine Commission:--

"While the Spanish troops now remained quietly in Manila, the Filipino forces made themselves
masters of the entire island except that city." [379]

I signed that statement, and signed it in good faith; nevertheless, it is untrue. The Filipino
forces never controlled the territory now known as Ifugao, Bontoc, Kalinga or Apayao, much
less that occupied by the Negritos on the east coast of Luzón, but this is not all. There exists
among the  Insurgent records a very important document, prepared by Mabini, showing that when
the call for the first session of the Filipino congress was issued, there were no less than
sixty-one provinces and commandancias, which the Insurgents, when talking among themselves,
did not even claim to control, and twenty-one of these were in or immediately adjacent to Luzón.
[380]

The men who composed this congress were among the ablest natives of the archipelago; but representative
institutions mean nothing unless they represent the people; if they do not, they are a conscious
lie devised either to deceive the people of the country or foreign nations, and it is not possible
for any system founded upon a lie to endure. A real republic must be founded not upon a few
brilliant men to compose the governing group but upon a people trained in self-restraint and
accustomed to govern by compromise and concession, not by force. To endure it must be based
upon a solid foundation of self-control, of self-respect and of respect for the rights of others
upon the part of the great majority of the common people. If it is not, the government which
follows a period of tumult, confusion and civil war will be a government of the sword. The
record the Philippine republic has left behind it contains nothing to confirm the belief that
it would have endured, even in name, if the destinies of the islands had been left in the hands
of the men who set it up.

The national assembly met on the appointed day in the parish church of Barasoain, Malolos,
which had been set aside for the meetings of congress. This body probably had then more elected
members than at its subsequent meetings, but even so it contained a large number of men who
were appointed by Aguinaldo after consultation with his council to represent provinces which
they had never even seen.

From a "list of representatives of the provinces and districts, selected by election and appointment
by the government up to July 7, 1899, with incomplete list of October 6, 1899" [381] I find
that there were 193 members, of whom forty-two were elected and one hundred fifty-one were
appointed. This congress was therefore not an elective body. Was it in any sense representative?
The following table, showing the distribution of delegates between the several peoples, will
enable us to answer this question.

In considering this table it must be remembered that the relationship given between the number
of delegates assigned to a given people and the number of individuals composing it is only
approximate, as no one of these peoples is strictly limited to the provinces where it predominates.

I have classified the provinces as Tagálog, Visayan, etc., according to census returns showing
the people who form a majority of their inhabitants in each case. [382]

    People          Number          Elected     Appointed
                                    Delegates   Delegates
    Visayans        3,219,030        0           68
    Tagálogs        1,460,695       18           19
    Ilocanos          803,942        7           11
    Bicols            566,365        4            7
    Pangasináns       343,686        2            2
    Pampangans        280,984        2            2
    Cagayans          159,648        4            6
    Zambalans          48,823        1            2
    Non-Christians    647,740        4           34
                                    42          151

It will be noted that the Tagálog provinces had eighteen out of a total of forty-two elected
delegates. The Visayans, by far the most numerous people in the islands, did not have one.
The non-Christian provinces had a very disproportionately large total of delegates, of whom
four are put down as elected, but on examination we find that one of these is from Lepanto,
the capital of which was an Ilocano town; one is from Nueva Vizcaya, where there is a considerable
Cagayan-Ilocano population; one is from Benguet, the capital of which was an Ilocano town,
and one from Tiagan, which was an Iloeano settlement. These delegates should therefore really
be credited to the Ilocanos.

If the individual relationships of the several members are considered, the result is even more
striking. Of the thirty-eight delegates assigned to the non-Christian provinces, one only,
good old Lino Abaya of Tiagan, was a non-Christian. Many of the non-Christian comandancias
were given a number of delegates wholly disproportionate to their population, and in this way
the congress was stuffed full of Tagálogs.

Think of Filipe Buencamino, of Aguinaldo's cabinet, representing the Moros of Zamboanga; of
the mild, scholarly botanist Leon Guerrero representing the Moros, Bagobos, Mandayas and Manobos
of Davao; of José M. Lerma, the unscrupulous politician of the province of Bataan, just across
the bay from Manila, representing the wild Moros of Cotabato; of Juan Tuason, a timid Chinese
mestizo Manila business man, representing the Yacan and Samal Moros of Basilan; of my good
friend Benito Legarda, since a member of the Philippine Commission, and a resident delegate
from the Philippines to the congress of the United States, representing the bloody Moros of
Jolo! Yet they appear as representatives of these several regions.

Few, indeed, of the delegates from non-Christian territory had ever set foot in the provinces
or comandancias from which they were appointed, or would have been able to so much as name
the wild tribe or tribes inhabiting them.

I have been furnished a list, made up with all possible care by competent persons, from which
it appears that there were eighty-five delegates actually present at the opening of congress,
of whom fifty-nine were Tagálogs, five Bicols, three Pampangans, two Visayans, and one a Zambalan.
For the others there are no data available. Yet it has been claimed that this was a representative
body! It was a Tagálog body, without enough representatives of any other one of the numerous
Philippine peoples to be worth mentioning.

With a congress thus organized, Aguinaldo should have had no difficulty in obtaining any legislation
he desired.

The committee of congress appointed to draw up a constitution set to work promptly, and by
October 16,1898, had proceeded so far with their work that Buencamino was able to write to
Aguinaldo that while he had been of the opinion that it would have been best for him to continue
as a dictator aided by a committee of able men, yet it would now be a blow to the prestige
of congress to suspend its sessions. Aguinaldo noted upon this letter the fact that he did
not approve of a constitution. [383]

Apparently early in December the committee submitted their project. In presenting it to congress
they said [384] that--

"The work whose results the commission has the honour to present for the consideration of congress
has been largely a matter of selection; in executing it not only has the French constitution
been used, but also those of Belgium, Mexico, Brazil, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Guatemala,
as we have considered those nations as most resembling the Filipino people."

The most important difference between this project and the actual constitution adopted was
that, although the project provided that the Dominican, Recollect, Franciscan and Augustinian
friars should be expelled from the country and that their estates should become the property
of the state, yet it recognized the Catholic religion as that of the state and forbade state
contribution to the support of any other, although it permitted the practice in private of
any religion not opposed to morality, which did not threaten the safety of the country. The
government was authorized to negotiate a concordat with the Pope for the regulation of the
relations between church and state. A strong party was in favour of this recognition, but it
finally failed of adoption, and the constitution as promulgated provided for the freedom and
equality of religion and for free and compulsory education which had not been provided for
in the original project. The constitution as approved forbade the granting of titles of nobility,
decorations or honorary titles by the state to any Filipino. This paragraph did not exist in
the original project, which merely forbade any Filipino to accept them without the consent
of the government.

Mabini, the ablest of all Aguinaldo's advisers, did not approve of the constitution. He himself
had drawn up a project for a constitution during June, 1898, but it was not accepted by the
committee, the greater part of whom were Catholics and for that reason opposed to Mabini, who
was a bitter antagonist of that church. And yet when separation of church and state was finally
provided for it did not please Mabini, who, although he was opposed to church control, wrote
to Aguinaldo [385] that the constitution as passed by congress was not acceptable and should
not be promulgated because the constitutional guarantees of individual liberty could not be
maintained, as the army had to be in control for the time being, and furthermore it was not
expedient to separate church and state, as this separation would alienate many of their adherents.
Indeed, there was not much in the constitution which he thought ought to take immediate effect,
[386] and he wrote that congress was ill-disposed toward him because he had refused to agree
to its promulgation. Existing conditions were such that he believed that all powers should
be vested in one person. He warned Aguinaldo that if the constitution were put in force, he
would be at the mercy of his secretaries. On January 1, 1899, Aguinaldo, probably at the suggestion
of Mabini, proposed certain changes in it. [387]

Evidently the provisions of the constitution did not worry Aguinaldo much, as is shown by his
reply to the request by some of his officers for information as to what reward those who were
first in the attack on Manila should receive. He promised them such titles as marquis, duke,
etc. [388]

On January 2, 1899, Aguinaldo announced the formation of a new cabinet made up as follows:
Apolinario Mabini president and secretary of foreign affairs; Teodoro Sandico, secretary of
the interior; Mariano Trias, secretary of the treasury; Baldomero Aguinaldo, secretary of war
and navy, and Gracio Gonzaga, secretary of fomento. [389] On January 4 Mabini took the oath
of office as the president of the council of government. This body met twice a week at Malolos
on set days, and at the close of its deliberations forwarded to Aguinaldo a statement of the
subjects discussed and the conclusions reached for his decision. The president of the republic
did not preside at, or take part in, its deliberations.

On January 4, 1899, General Otis issued a proclamation in which he announced that the United
States had obtained possession of the Philippines and that its government would beextended
over the islands of the archipelago. Aguinaldo replied next day with one which, if not intended
to be a declaration of war, was at least a warning that hostilities were imminent. This proclamation
was carried into Manila by his emissaries and posted up over the one issued by the American
commander. It was a challenge to a trial of strength, and Aguinaldo and his advisers hastened
their preparations for the coming combat.

The secretary of the interior on the same day sent an order to the heads of all provinces directing
the organization of territorial militia to resist the American invasion, and ordering the heads
of the towns to hold meetings of the people to protest against the aggression of the United
States. They were held in accordance with these orders, and records of the proceedings were
sent to Malolos and published in the official organ of the government as evidence of the feeling
of the people. It was, however, not considered necessary in publishing them to mention the
fact that they had been held in compliance with orders.

On January 14, 1899, Mabini wrote to Aguinaldo [390] recommending changes in the proposed constitution,
which he still liked as little as ever. He was afraid that Negros and Panay would refuse to
accept the form of government it prescribed. The worst thing about it was that the Americans
would be less disposed to recognize Aguinaldo's government; for when they saw the constitution
they would know, as it made no mention of them, that the Filipinos wanted independence. Mabini
thought that it was possible that the wording of the constitution might have been deliberately
planned by members of the congress in favour of annexation to the United States, so that that
country would be warned, would become more mistrustful, and would refuse to recognize Aguinaldo's
government. Whatever the president of the council may have thought about the theoretical advisability
of a congress to represent the people, he found one much in the way when he had obtained it.

Buencamino advised that the constitution should be approved and promulgated; one argument was
that the congress had been consulted in the matter of a national loan, and if it was dissolved,
there could be no loan. This was apparently the only matter upon which it had been consulted. [391]

The constitution of the Philippine Republic was ratified at a session of the congress on January
20, 1899.

On January 21, 1899, Aguinaldo sanctioned it and ordered that it should be "kept, complied
with and executed in all its parts because it is the sovereign will of the Philippine people."
[392] The constitution provided for a government of three coördinate powers, executive, legislative
and judicial. Whether it provided for a form of government which would have succeeded in the
Philippines was not determined by actual experience. It was never really put in force for war
with the United States began in two weeks and the constitution must stand as the expression
of the ideas of a certain group of educated natives rather than as the working formula for
the actual conduct of the political life of a nation. One proof of this is the fact that not
until June 8, 1899, were Aguinaldo's decrees upon the registration of marriages and upon civil
marriage, dated June 20,1898, revoked, and the provisions of the constitution concerning marriage
put in effect. [393]

Aguinaldo had approved the constitution; he had informed the foreign consuls and General Otis
that it had been promulgated and become the law of the land. It was not promulgated. It had
not become the law of the land. It served one important purpose. It passed into the hands of
the Americans and showed them the ability and the aspirations of certain individuals of the
archipelago, but Mabini and his followers did not believe in its form or in its provisions,
and Mabini at least was emphatic in his declarations that the time had not yet come for it
to be put into effect. On January 24, 1899, he wrote to Aguinaldo that if it should be promulgated
it would be absolutely necessary to give the president the veto power, and replace the elected
representatives by others appointed by the government. If this were not done the president
would be at the mercy of congress, and the people, seeing that disagreement between the executive
government and the congress was the cause of its misfortunes, would start another revolutionary
movement to destroy both of them. [394]

As long as Mabini remained in power the constitution was mere paper. Its adoption was not indicative
of the capacity of the people to maintain self-government. It expressed only the academic aspirations
of the men who drafted it. There is not the slightest evidence from any previous or subsequent
experience of the people that it would have worked in practice. It was enacted for the misleading
of Americans rather than for the benefit of the Filipinos.

While the government of Aguinaldo was called a republic, it was in fact a Tagálog military
oligarchy in which the great mass of the people had no share. Their duty was only to give soldiers
for the army and labourers for the fields, and to obey without question the orders they received
from the military heads of their provinces.

There is no cause for vain regrets. We did not destroy a republic in the Philippines. There
never was anything there to destroy which even remotely resembled a republic.

CHAPTER IX

The Conduct of the War

It is not my intention to attempt to write a history of the war which began on February 4,
1899, nor to discuss any one of its several campaigns. I propose to limit myself to a statement
of the conditions under which it was conducted, and a description of the two periods into which
it may be divided.

From the outset the Insurgent soldiers were treated with marked severity by their leaders.
On June 17, 1898, Aguinaldo issued an order to the military chiefs of certain towns in Cavite
providing that a soldier wasting ammunition should be punished with twelve lashes for a first
offence, twenty-four for a second, and court-martialled and "severely punished" for a third. [395]

On November 16, 1900, General Lacuna ordered that any officer allowing his soldiers to load
their rifles when not before the enemy should be liable to capital punishment, [396] which
in practice was frequently inflicted on soldiers for very minor offences.

Men of means were drafted into the ranks and then excused from service on the payment of cash.

The soldiery, quartered on the towns, committed endless abuses. Conditions were bad enough
before the outbreak of hostilities, as I have shown in the chapters dealing with Insurgent
rule. They grew rapidly worse thereafter, and human life became cheap indeed.

"The documents of this period show that the insurgent troops driven from the front of Manila
fell upon the people of the neighbouring towns and burnt, robbed, and murdered. Either their
officers lost all control over them, or else they directed these outrages. It was not for some
days that control was regained." [397]

Endless orders were issued by Aguinaldo and other high Insurgent officers, prohibiting rape,
brigandage and robbery, and there was grave need of them. Unfortunately they could not be enforced.
Indeed it was often impossible to distinguish between Insurgent soldiers, who removed their
uniforms or had none, and brigands pure and simple. [398]

Many men were soldiers at one time and brigands at another. Unquestionably soldiers and brigands
sometimes coöperated. Garrisons were withdrawn from towns which did not promptly and fully
comply with the demands of Insurgent commanders, [399] and armed bandits appeared and plundered
them.

There were some Insurgent leaders, like Cailles, who suppressed brigandage with a heavy hand,
[400] but many of them were indifferent, even if not in alliance with the evil doers.

The Visayas

Feeling between Tagálog soldiers and Visayan people grew constantly more bitter, and before
many months had passed they fell to killing each other. The highest officers of the "Regional
Revolutionary Government of the Visayas" protested vigorously to Aguinaldo, [401] but without
result. The situation was entirely beyond his control.

On April 20, 1899, General Delgado issued an order which tells a significant story of conditions,
and of his own weakness in dealing with them. [402]

In Luzón General Trias of Cavite accused the soldiers and citizens of his province of committing
"robberies, assaults, kidnappings and crimes which are committed only by barbarous and savage
tribes." [403]

That very serious conditions promptly became general is conclusively shown by the record of
Aguinaldo's government for February 24, 1899, when it decided--

"that the president of the council shall study such measures as will put an end to the continual
discord and friction between the civil and military authorities of every province, in order
that fatal consequences may be avoided."

With such conditions prevailing among the Filipinos themselves, it was to be expected that
the laws of civilized warfare would be violated and that American soldiers taken prisoners
would sometimes be treated with barbarity. Flags of truce were deliberately violated. [404]
American soldiers were trapped, poisoned [405] and murdered in other ways. [406]

It was promptly charged in the United States that American soldiers were committing barbarities,
and Blount has revived these old tales.

I know personally that during the early days of the war Insurgent prisoners and wounded were
treated with the greatest humanity and kindness.

A part of the Insurgent plan of campaign was the circulation of the most shocking statements
concerning the abuses committed by American soldiers. I have elsewhere described [407] the
fate that overtook Colonel Arguelles, in part because he told the truth as to the humane treatment
by the Americans of prisoners and wounded.

Not only did some of those who did this forfeit their lives, but newspaper articles, military
orders, and proclamations issued by civil officers informed the people that the American soldiers
stole, burned, robbed, raped and murdered. Especial stress was laid on their alleged wholesale
violations of women, partly to turn the powerful influence of the women as a whole against
them, and partly to show that they were no better than the Insurgents themselves, who frequently
committed rape. [408]

These horrible tales were at first believed even by some of the responsible Insurgent officers
in remote regions, [409] but all such men soon learned the truth, which was known to most of
them from the start.

In official correspondence between them, not intended for the public, orders were given to
use women as bearers of despatches for the reason that Americans did not search them. [410]
More significant yet, when conditions became bad in the provinces, Insurgent officers sent
their women and children to seek American protection in Manila or elsewhere. Cartload after
cartload of them came in at Angeles, shortly after General Jacob H. Smith took that place.
Aguinaldo himself followed this procedure, as is shown by the following extracts from Villa's
famous diary: [411]--

"December 22.--It was 7 A.M. when we arrived in Ambayuan. Here we found the women worn out
from the painful journey they had suffered. They were seated on the ground. In their faces
were observed indications of the ravages of hunger; but they are always smiling, saying they
would prefer suffering in these mountains to being under the dominion of the Americans, and
that such sacrifices are the duties of every patriot who loves his country.

"We secured some camotes in this settlement, cooked them immediately, and everybody had breakfast.
Our appetites were satisfied.

"The honorable president had already decided some days before to send all the women to Manila,
including his family, and this was his motive in hurrying his family forward with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

"December 24.--We find ourselves still in Talubin. About 8 o'clock this morning a report came
saying the Americans had arrived at Bontoc, the provincial capital, the nearest town to Talubin,
and distant from it two hours by the road. An immediate decision was made. The honourable president
told his family and the other women that they should remain in the settlement and allow themselves
to be caught by the Americans, and he named Señors Sytiar and Paez to remain also, with the
obligation of conducting the women to Manila. As soon as the arrangement was effected, the
honourable president prepared himself for the march. The parting was a very sad one for himself
and for his family.

"The honourable president left Talubin at 11 o'clock in the morning, his family and the other
women remaining behind with two gentlemen charged with conducting them to Manila." [412]

In this, as in all other similar cases, the women were kindly treated and safely conducted
to their destination. Aguinaldo and his fellows knew the happy fate of the members of his own
family, as is shown by a later entry:--

"February 6.--We have been informed that the mother and son of the honourable president are
at Manila, living in the house of Don Benito Legarda, and that they reached that capital long
before the wife and sister of the honourable president. We have also learned that Señor Buencamino,
and Tirona, and Concepcion are prisoners of the American authorities in Manila. With reference
to the wife and sister of the honourable president and the two Leyba sisters, it is said that
they went to Vigan and from there went by steamer to Manila." [413]

The mother and son, accompanied by Buencamino, had allowed themselves to be captured at an
earlier date. What shall we say of a leader who would turn his mother, wife, sister and son
over to American soldiers for safekeeping, and then continue to denounce the latter as murderers,
and violaters of women? Aguinaldo did just this. That the Insurgent leaders were early and
fully aware of the treatment accorded their wounded is shown by the following extract from
a letter to General Moxica of Leyte, dated March 2, 1900, giving instructions as to what should
be done with wounded men:--

"If by chance any of our men are wounded on the field or elsewhere, efforts must be made to
take away the rifles and ammunition at once and carry them away as far as possible, so that
they may not be captured by the enemy; and if the wounded cannot be immediately removed elsewhere
or retreat from the place, let them be left there, because it is better to save the arms than
the men, as there are many Filipinos to fill up the ranks, but rifles are scarce and difficult
to secure for battle; and besides the Americans, coming upon any wounded, take good care of
them, while the rifles are destroyed; therefore, I repeat, they must endeavour to save the
arms rather than the men." [414]

There were some rare individual instances in which uninjured Filipinos were treated with severity,
and even with cruelty, by American soldiers. They occurred for the most part late in the war
when the "water cure" in mild form was sometimes employed in order to compel persons who had
guilty knowledge of the whereabouts of firearms to tell what they knew, to the end that the
perpetration of horrible barbarities on the common people, and the assassination of those who
had sought American protection, might the more promptly cease. Usually the sufferers were themselves
bloody murderers, who had only to tell the truth to escape punishment. The men who performed
these cruel acts knew what treatment was being commonly accorded to Filipinos, and in some
instances to their own comrades. I mention these facts to explain, not to excuse, their conduct.
Cruel acts cannot be excused, but those referred to seldom resulted in any permanent injury
to the men who suffered them, and were the rare and inevitable exceptions to the general rule
that the war was waged, so far as the Americans were concerned, with a degree of humanity hitherto
unprecedented under similar conditions. The Insurgents violated every rule of civilized warfare,
yet oathbreakers, spies and men fighting in citizens' clothes not only were not shot by the
Americans, as they might very properly have been, but were often turned loose with a mere warning
not to offend again.

The false news circulated to aid the Insurgent cause was by no means limited to such matters.
Every time their troops made a stand they were promptly defeated and driven back, but their
faltering courage was bolstered up by glorious tidings of wonderful, but wholly imaginary,
victories won elsewhere. It was often reported that many times more Americans had fallen in
some insignificant skirmish than were actually killed in the whole war, while generals perished
by the dozen and colonels by the thousand. Our losses on March 27, 1899, in fighting north
of Manila, were said to be twenty-eight thousand. In reality only fifty-six Americans were
killed in all northern Luzón during the entire month.

On April 26, 1899, the governor of Iloilo published the following remarkable news items among
others:--

"Pavia, April 6th, 1899.

"The Liberating Army of the Visayan Islands to the Local Presidents of the towns shown on the
margin:

"Towns: Santa Barbara, Pavia, Leganes, Zárraga, Dumangas, Batac Viejo, Tuilao, Batac Nuevo, Banate.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Santa Ana taken by Americans burning town our troops advancing to Rosario and Escolta Americans
request parley account death General and officers and many soldiers.

       *       *       *       *       *

"At 3 P.M. of the 14th battle at Santolan 500 American prisoners who are to be taken to Malolos.

"At 9.45 P.M. Commissioner Laguna details 6000 more Americans dead and 600 prisoners.

"Otis requests parley, and our representatives being present, he tells them to request peace
and conditions, to which they replied that he, and not they, should see to that, so the parley
accomplished nothing.

"To-day, Wednesday, a decisive battle will be fought.

"Among the 5000 prisoners there are two generals. Tomorrow 7.15 Pasig in our power. Americans
little by little leaving for Manila.

"General Malbar to Provincial Chief Batangas.

"According to reports by telegraph hostilities have commenced and all at Santa Mesa have fallen
into our hands, also Pasay and Maytubig.

"American boat surrendered at Laguna de Bay many prisoners taken.

"General Ricarte to Provincial Chief of Batangas: Battle stopped by truce Japan and Germany
intervene to learn who provoked war.

"Foreigners favor parley one American general and chiefs and officers dead." [415]

Santa Ana is a suburb of Manila. The Rosario and Escolta are the main business streets of the city.

Apparently the Insurgents must have thought that colonels were as numerous in our army as in
theirs, for they reported two thousand of them killed on February 6, 1899, and threw in one
general for good measure. [416]

We learn from the Filipino Herald for February 23, 1899, that on that day the Filipino army
captured and occupied the suburbs of Manila, while American troops were besieged in the outskirts
of the city, at La Loma, and in the neighbouring town of Caloocan. [417]

But why continue. No tale concerning American losses in the Philippines was too fantastic to
be told by the leaders and believed by the soldiery and the populace. The American soldiers
were even said to be refusing to fight, and great prisons were being constructed in order properly
to punish them.

General MacArthur and his entire staff were captured before March 2, 1900, according to a letter
sent to General Moxica of Leyte on that date. [418]

And what of conditions in the United States during this troubled period? We learn from the
Insurgent records that prior to January 15, 1900, "the Union Army" had met with a new disaster,
as a result of which President McKinley tendered his resignation, being succeeded by Mr. Bryan.
Philippine independence was to be proclaimed on February 4, 1899. On January 20, "General Otis's
successor, John Waterly, of the democratic party," arrived at Manila with papers and instructions
relative to proclaiming the Philippine Republic. [419] Things now went from bad to worse. The
trouble between democrats and republicans resulted in an insurrection. Before August, 1901,
President McKinley had brought about strained relations between Germany and the United States
by bribing an anarchist to assassinate the German Emperor. [420] Before September 15, 1901,
he had been killed by a member of the Democratic party, and the Filipinos could acclaim their
independence. [421]

The first period of the war, which we may term the period of organized armed resistance, drew
rapidly to its close, and there followed the second period, characterized by guerrilla tactics
on the part of the Insurgents.

On September 14, 1899, Aguinaldo accepted the advice of General Pío del Pilar, ex-bandit, if
indeed he had ever ceased to rob and murder, and authorized this man, whom he had been again
and again asked to remove, to begin guerrilla warfare in Bulacan. Guerrilla tactics were duly
authorized for, and had been adopted by, Insurgent forces everywhere before the end of November.

Of this style of fighting Taylor has truly said:--

"If war in certain of its aspects is a temporary reversion to barbarism, guerrilla warfare
is a temporary reversion to savagery. The man who orders it assumes a grave responsibility
before the people whose fate is in his hands, for serious as is the material destruction which
this method of warfare entails, the destruction to the orderly habits of mind and thought which,
at bottom, are civilization, is even more serious. Robbery and brigandage, murder and arson
follow in its wake.

Guerrilla warfare means a policy of destruction, a policy of terror, and never yet, however
great may have been the injury caused by it, however much it may have prolonged the war in
which it has been employed, has it secured a termination favorable to the people who have chosen
it." [422]

The case under discussion furnished no exception to the general rule.

Such semblance of discipline as had previously existed among the Insurgent soldiers rapidly
disappeared. Conditions had been very bad under the "Republic" and worse during the first period
of the war. During the second period they rapidly became unendurable in many regions, and the
common people were driven into the arms of the Americans, in spite of threats of death, barbarously
carried out by Insurgent officers, soldiers and agents in thousands of cases. I have described
at some length the conditions which now arose in the chapter on Murder as a Governmental Agency,
to which the reader is referred for details. [423]

In the effort to protect the towns which showed themselves friendly, the American forces were
divided, subdivided and subdivided again. On March 1, 1901, they were occupying no less than
five hundred two stations. By December of the same year the number had increased to six hundred
thirty-nine, with an average of less than sixty men to a post. As a result of the protection
thus afforded and of the humane conduct of our troops, the people turned to us in constantly
increasing numbers.

It remained to stamp out the dying embers of insurrection, while continuing to seek to protect
those who put their trust in us. Further subdivision of the troops in order to garrison more
points was hardly possible, but field operations were actively pushed. One after another the
Insurgent leaders were captured or voluntarily surrendered. Most officers of importance issued
explanatory statements to the people shortly after giving up active field operations, whether
they surrendered voluntarily or were taken prisoners. Aguinaldo himself was captured on March
23, 1901, at Palanan, the northernmost point on the east coast of Luzon inhabited by civilized
people. No place in the islands, inhabited by Filipinos, is more completely isolated, and he
had long been almost entirely cut off from his followers, many of whom believed him to be dead.
On April 19, 1901, he issued an address to the Filipino people, in which he clearly recognized
the fact that they wanted peace. He said:--

"Manila, April 19, 1901.

"To the Filipino People:--

"I believe that I am not in error in presuming that the unhappy fate to which my adverse fortune
has led me is not a surprise to those who have been familiar day by day with the progress of
the war. The lessons thus taught, the full meaning of which has recently come to my knowledge,
suggested to me with irresistible force that the complete termination of   hostilities and
a lasting peace are not only desirable but  absolutely essential to the welfare of the Philippines.

"The Filipinos have never been dismayed by their weakness, nor have they faltered in following
the path pointed out by their fortitude and courage. The time has come, however, in which they
find their advance along the path impeded by an irresistible force--a force which, while it
restrains them, yet enlightens the mind and opens another course by presenting to them the
cause of peace. This cause has been joyfully embraced by a majority of our fellow-countrymen,
who have already united around the glorious and sovereign banner of the United States. In this
banner they repose their trust in the belief that under its protection our people will attain
all the promised liberties which they are even now beginning to enjoy.

"The country has declared unmistakably in favor of peace; so be it. Enough of blood; enough
of tears and desolation. This wish cannot be ignored by the men still in arms if they are animated
by no other desire than to serve this noble people which has thus clearly manifested its will.

"So also do I respect this will now that it is known to me, and after mature deliberation resolutely
proclaim to the world that I cannot refuse to heed the voice of a people longing for peace,
nor the lamentations of thousands of families yearning to see their dear ones in the enjoyment
of the liberty promised by the generosity of the great American nation.

"By acknowledging and accepting the sovereignty of the United States throughout the entire
Archipelago, as I now do without any reservation whatsoever, I believe that I am serving thee,
my beloved country. May happiness be theirs.

"Emilio Aguinaldo. [424]

"Manila, April 19, 1901."

This announcement of Aguinaldo, published in Spanish, Tagálog and English, undoubtedly hastened
the end of the war, but it did not lead to immediate general surrender, for as Taylor has very
truly said:--

"A force like Aguinaldo's could not be surrendered. It had been torn by internal dissensions
and the bonds of discipline had always been very lax. It had originally been held together
by a lively expectation of the advantages to be obtained from the pillage of Manila. That hope
had disappeared, and the leaders had become the lords of life and property each in his own
province. It was a force which could disintegrate, but which could not surrender. Only armies
can do that. Forces over which their leaders have lost all except nominal control when beaten
do not surrender. They disintegrate by passing through the stages of guerrilla warfare, of
armed bands of highwaymen, of prowling groups of thieves, of sturdy beggars who at opportune
moments resort to petty larceny." [425]

Aguinaldo's forces now passed through these several stages. Some of his more important subordinates
had previously been captured or had surrendered. Others, still remaining in the field, now
acted on his advice, more or less promptly. A few remained obdurate for a time, but as a rule
not for long, and soon there remained in the field only a very limited number of real military
leaders, like General Malvar in Batangas and General Lukban in Samar, and a very considerable
number of bandit chiefs, some of whom had posed as Insurgents. The forces of the latter were
now materially and rapidly augmented by men who had been Insurgent officers or soldiers and
while serving in this capacity had become so enamoured of a lawless life that they were now
unwilling to settle down and work for their daily bread, preferring to continue to live off
their long-suffering fellow-countrymen, whom they robbed and murdered more mercilessly than ever.

The war was practically over. The insurrection had failed. In my opinion no Filipino who held
out to the end for independence compared in intellectual power with Mabini, and I deem his
views as to why it failed worthy of special attention. At the time of his death, he left behind
a memoir from which I quote the following:--

"The revolution failed because it was poorly led, because its head conquered his place, not
by meritorious, but by reprehensible actions, because in place of supporting the men most useful
to the people, he rendered them useless because he was jealous of them. Believing that the
aggrandizement of the people was nothing more than his own personal aggrandizement, he did
not judge the merits of men by their capacity, character, or patriotism, but by the degree
of friendship and relationship which bound them to him; and wishing to have his favorites always
ready to sacrifice themselves for him, he showed himself complaisant to their faults. Having
thus secured the people, the people deserted him. And the people having deserted him, he had
to fall like a wax idol melted by the heat of adversity. God forbid that we should forget so
terrible a lesson learned at the cost of unspeakable sufferings." [426]

These are by no means the only reasons why the revolution failed, but they foredoomed it to
failure.

The surrender or capture of the more respectable military element left the unsurrendered firearms
in the hands of men most of whom were ignorant, many of whom were criminal, and nearly all
of whom were irresponsible and unscrupulous.

Strict enforcement of the rules of civilized warfare against them was threatened, but not actually
resorted to.

The situation was particularly bad in Batangas. General J. F. Bell was put in charge there,
and he found a humane and satisfactory solution of the existing difficulties in reconcentration--not
the kind of reconcentration which made the Spaniards hated in Cuba, but a measure of a wholly
different sort. This measure and its results have been concisely described by Taylor, as follows:--

"General Bell said he was as anxious as any one could be to avoid making war against those
who really wanted the termination of hostilities, and it was his duty to protect them against
the vengeance of others. Over and above all these considerations in importance, however, was
the absolute necessity of making it impossible for insurgents to procure food by levying contributions.
Therefore, in order to give those who were pacifically inclined an opportunity to escape hardship,
as far as possible, and preserve their food supply for themselves and their families, it was
determined to establish zones of protection with limits sufficiently near all towns to enable
the small garrisons thereof to give the people living within these zones efficient protection
against ruinous exactions by insurgents. He accordingly, 'in order to put an end to enforced
contributions now levied by insurgents upon the inhabitants of sparsely settled and outlying
barrios and districts by means of intimidation and assassination,' ordered the commanding officers
of all towns in the provinces of Batangas and Laguna to 'immediately specify and establish
plainly marked limits surrounding each town bounding a zone within which it may be practicable,
with an average-sized garrison, to exercise sufficient supervision over and furnish protection
to inhabitants (who desire to be peaceful) against the depredation of armed insurgents. The
limits may include the barrios which exist sufficiently near the town to be given protection
and supervision by the garrison, and should include some ground on which live stock could graze,
but so situated that it can be patrolled and watched. All ungarrisoned towns will be garrisoned
as soon as troops become available.

"'Commanding officers will also see that orders are at once given and distributed to all the
inhabitants within the jurisdiction of towns over which they exercise supervision, informing
them of the danger of remaining outside of these limits, and that unless they move by December
25 from outlying barrios and districts, with all their movable food supplies, including rice,
palay, [427] chickens, live stock, etc., to within the limits of the zone established at their
own or nearest town, their property (found outside of said zone at said date) will become liable
to confiscation or destruction. The people will be permitted to move houses from outlying districts
should they desire to do so, or to construct temporary shelter for themselves on any vacant
land without compensation to the owner, and no owner will be permitted to deprive them of the
privilege of doing so. In the discretion of commanding officers the prices of necessities of
existence may also be regulated in the interest of those thus seeking protection. As soon as
peaceful conditions have been reëstablished in the brigade these persons will be encouraged
to return to their homes, and such assistance be rendered them as may be found practicable.'

"It was deemed best not to compel the people to enter these zones; but they were warned that
unless they accepted that protection their property, which consisted almost entirely of food
supplies, would become liable to confiscation or destruction, because it might be impossible
to determine whether it belonged to hostile or peaceful people. To put an end to vengeance
by assassination, it was determined to make use of the right of retaliation conferred by General
Order 100 issued by President Lincoln in 1863. A circular telegram was published announcing
an intention to retaliate by the execution of prisoners of war in case any more were assassinated
by insurgents for political reasons. It was not found necessary to do this. Assassinations
stopped at once.

"As the campaign progressed it became more and more apparent that a large number of poor people
had contributed through fear, for the power of the insurgents to collect came to an end after
they had lost their power of intimidation. The efficiency of the protection afforded in such
zones was the determining factor in forming the decision and attitude of many of the natives.
The protection afforded was efficient, and from time to time many additional families entered
the zones. The sentiment for peace grew stronger steadily and natives volunteered assistance
to Americans at every hand and in every town. When these volunteers were trustworthy they were
armed and sent out into the mountains from which they brought back guns, and insurgents, and
hundreds of half-famished men, women, and children who, released from the intimidating influence
of the insurgents, entered the zones of protection.

"The most serious discomfort experienced by any one within these areas was caused to the mestizo
ruling group, whose members bitterly resented the blow to their prestige in being treated like
every one else. They had been accustomed to have others work for them and obey them blindly.
To a man who could speak Spanish and who had always been the lord of his barrio, [428] the
possibility of having to cultivate a field with his own hands was an unthinkable and scandalous
thing. These men suffered and suffered acutely; but it was not their bodies which suffered--it
was their pride.

"Malvar surrendered on April 16, 1902. Most of the people had turned against their once highly
respected chief, and toward the end several thousand natives of Batangas joined the Americans
in their determined hunt for the fugitive leader. Realization of the fact that the people were
against him materially aided in forcing his surrender.

"General Bell had captured or forced to surrender some 8000 to 10,000 persons actively engaged,
in one capacity or another, in the insurrection. These prisoners were rapidly released when
they had taken the oath of allegiance. By the first week of July no political prisoners were
held in this region. They had returned to their homes.

"The policy of concentrating the people in protected zones and destroying the food which was
used for the maintenance of guerrilla bands was not new. There had been precedents even in
the United States. One of these is the order issued on August 25, 1863, by Brigadier-General
Ewing, commanding the district of the border, with headquarters at Kansas City, Mo., in which
he ordered the inhabitants of a large part of three counties of that State to remove from their
residences within fifteen days to the protection of the military stations which he had established.
All grain and hay in that district was ordered to be taken to those military stations. If it
was not convenient to so dispose of it, it would be burned (Rebellion Records, Series I, Vol.
XXII, Part II, p. 473). The American commanders in the Philippines had adopted no new method
of procedure in dealing with war traitors; they had, however, effectively employed an old one.

"The insurrection had originated among the Tagálogs and had spread like a conflagration from
the territory occupied by them. The fire had been quenched everywhere else. General Bell had
now stamped out the embers in the Tagálog provinces.

General Bell's motives and methods in reconcentrating the inhabitants of this troubled region
have been grossly misrepresented, and he himself has been sadly maligned. He is the most humane
of men, and the plan which he adopted resulted in the reëstablishment of law and order at a
minimum cost of human suffering.

Many of the occupants of his reconcentration camps received there their first lessons in hygienic
living. Many of them were reluctant to leave the camps and return to their homes when normal
conditions again prevailed.

The number of Filipinos killed during the Batangas campaign was very small. [429] Blount has
sought to make it appear that partly as an indirect consequence of war there was dreadful mortality
there, citing by way of proof the fact that the Coast and Geodetic Atlas, published as a part
of the report of the first Philippine Commission, gave the population of Batangas as 312,192,
while the census of 1903 gave it as 257,715. [430]

The report of the United States Philippine Commission for 1903 gives the population of Manila
as 221,000, while in 1900 it had been 260,000. Does this mean that there had been a holocaust
in Manila? Not at all. It means only that the thousands of Filipinos who had sought the protection
of the American forces there during the period when they feared their own soldiers in the provinces
had mostly returned to their homes. During the disturbed period in Batangas great numbers of
people took refuge in other and more peaceful regions. Some of them returned later; others did not.

Blount further quotes a statement in the 1901 report of the Provincial Secretary of Batangas
to the effect that:

"The mortality, caused no longer by the war, but by disease, such as malaria and dysentery,
has reduced to a little over 200,000 the more than 300,000 inhabitants which in former years
the province had." [431]

Apart from the fact that these figures, showing a mortality of a hundred thousand from disease
alone, are hardly consistent with those quoted by Blount as showing a decrease in population
during a longer period of only fifty-four thousand four hundred and forty-seven, it is not
apparent why Americans should be charged with deaths due to malaria or dysentery, since no
systematic effort to rid Batangas of these ills had ever previously been made, and the very
thing which then prevented the adoption of the measures subsequently so successfully put forth
to this end was the disorderly conduct of the people themselves. As a simple matter of fact,
however, there was no such dreadful mortality from these diseases at this time. Malaria has
never been especially bad in this province, and even cholera, which swept it during the period
in question and is far more readily communicated than is dysentery, caused only twenty-three
hundred and ninety-nine known deaths.

In the end peace was established and prosperity followed in its wake.

This result was brought about in part by the efficient activity of the armed forces of the
United States and in part by the efforts of the first and second Philippine Commissions. [432]

CHAPTER X

Mr. Bryan and Independence

In order to bring home to some of my Democratic and Anti-Imperialist friends the unreliable
character of the testimony of even the very high officers of the so-called Philippine Republic,
I here quote certain extracts from the Insurgent records, showing the important part played,
doubtless unwittingly, by Mr. William Jennings Bryan in Philippine politics during the war.
The first of these might properly have been considered in the chapter entitled "Was Independence
Promised?" Others are instructive in that they show the use made of false news in bolstering
up the Insurgent cause, and might with propriety have been included in the chapter on "The
Conduct of the War." I have thought it best to keep them by themselves. Further comment on
them would seem to be superfluous.

"On May 1, 1900 (P.I.R., 516.6), I. de los Santos wrote a long letter in Tagálog and cipher
to Aguinaldo, in which he reported upon the progress of what he would have probably called
the diplomatic campaign. If this letter is to be believed, the agents in the United States
of the junta had been able to form relations which might be of great value to them. Santos
said in part:--

"'Commissioners... Señores Kant (G. Apacible) and Raff (Sixto López) duly carried out your
last instructions given at Tárlac. Señor Del Pan, sailing by way of Japan, about the middle
of October, and Señor Caney (G. Apacible), sailing by way of Europe about the 1st of November,
met in Toronto about the middle of February following. But before the arrival of Kant, Raff
had already come from Hayti (United States) and was able to pry in upon our political friends
and enemies. When they met each other they continued the voyage incognito, as Raft had done
previously, making themselves known to a very few people; but later on, and according to the
instructions carried by Caney, they made themselves known to a greater number of people, and
have succeeded in interviewing Bryan who happened to be in New York. Señor Raff said that Bryan
feared being present at a conference, lest he might be called a traitor by members of his own
party, and also by those of the opposite or "imperialist" party, who are quite proud over the
victories they have gained against our people over there. Nevertheless, Raff was able to be
present and talk at some of the anti-imperialist meetings, our political friends introducing
him as a friend from the committee (at Hongkong) and as an advocate of the cessation of the
war over there in order that our sacred rights may be given consideration by them. And as Bryan
could not personally take part in the conference, he sent a most trusted person, his right-hand
man, Dr. Gardner. The results of the conference between Señor Raff and Dr. Gardner, the latter
acting in the name of Mr. Bryan, are as follows:--

"'1st. That we may fight on, and Bryan will never cease to defend our sacred rights. 2nd. That
we must never mention Bryan's name in our manifestos and proclamations, lest the opposite party
might say he is a traitor. 3rd. That we are in the right; and hence he promised in the name
of Bryan that if this Señor Bryan is victorious in the presidential campaign, he will recognize
our independence without delay. Your honored self can easily conclude from all the foregoing
that Señor Del Pan, after the receipt of these promises, concurred with him; and he returned
to inform Señor Apacible about the results of the conference. So these two studied over the
plan of the policy to be adopted and carried out. I write you what their opinions are, viz.:
1st, that they will reside there, pending the outcome of the presidential contest, aiding the
propaganda and enlivening it until November, the date set for the desired thing. Owing to what
Dr. Gardner said and promised in the name of Bryan, some one ought to stay there in order that
Bryan may be approached, if he is elected, so he can sign the recognition of our independence;
and this should be done at once, lest in his excitement over the victory he should forget his
promise. 3rd. For carrying out the two propositions just mentioned, they request 2000 pounds
sterling, that is $20,000 in silver, to be used for the propaganda, for paying newspapers and
for bribing senators--this last clause is somewhat dangerous and impossible. And 4th, that
the money must be sent immediately, and that you should be informed not to mention the name
of Bryan in the manifestos and proclamations.

"'In order to answer quickly and decisively that proposition, and as I did not have the desired
money here, I answered as follows: "Plan approved; for the sake of economy we have decided
that one of the two retire, but before doing so make arrangements, establish communications
with leaders of Bryan's party, and he who remains should thus cultivate the relations; he who
is to retire will locate himself in Paris near Señor Katipalad (Agoncillo) with whom he will
secretly discuss political problems that may arise. So he will watch for the opportune moment
of Bryan's election, in order to go immediately to Hayti and formally arrange the contract
with Bryan." [433]

*   *   *   *   *

"'By the end of 1899, by the time guerrilla warfare was well under way, by the time that any
Filipino government, unless an expression of the unfettered will of the nearest bandit who
can muster a dozen rifles may be called a government, had ceased to exist, a strong opposition
to the policy of the administration had arisen in the United States and a demand for the recognition
of the independence of the Philippines. The junta in Hongkong were assured that the Democratic
party would come into power in the next elections and that this would mean the success of the
patriotic efforts of Aguinaldo and his followers. The news was good and was forthwith spread
abroad in "Extracts from our correspondence with America," "News from our foreign agents,"
"News from America," and "Translations from the foreign press"--circulars and handbills printed
on thin paper which were smuggled into the Philippines and passed into the hands of the guerrilla
leaders who could read Spanish. They gathered their followers about them and told them that
a powerful party had arisen in America which was going to give them all they had ever asked
for. They had only to fight on, for success was certain. In America the "Anti-imperialists"
were hanging the "Imperialists," and they should continue to harry the American adherents among
the natives of the Philippines.

"'There are a number of these publications among the papers captured from the insurgents, and
the adoption of this method of propaganda seems to have been nearly coincident with Aguinaldo's
orders declaring guerrilla warfare. It does not seem likely that the matter contained in them
was supplied by a Filipino, for if it was he assumed a general acquaintance among the people
with American politics and American methods which they were far from possessing.

"'In these publications the Filipinos were assured that the Imperialists were kept in power
only by the lavish contributions of the "truts," whatever they may have been; but the people
of the United States were growing weary of their domination and were about to return to the
true principles of Washington and Jefferson. The illustrious Americans "Crosvy Sticcney, and
Vartridge" were all laboring for the cause of Philippine independence. Long lists of American
cities were given in which the illustrious orators Mr. Croshy and Mr. Schurts had addressed
applauding crowds upon the necessity of throttling the "truts" because they opposed recognition
of the rights of the Filipinos. In August, 1900, "News from our agents in America" informed
its readers that--

"'"W. J. Bryan has stated in a speech that his first act upon being elected President will
be to declare the independence of the Philippines."

"'On June 16, 1900, Gen. Riego de Dios, acting head of the Hongkong junta, wrote to Gen. I.
Torres (P.I.R., 530), the guerrilla commander in Bulacán Province, and assured him that a little
more endurance, a little more constancy, was all that was needed to secure the attainment of
their ends. According to their advices the Democratic party would win in the approaching elections
in the United States, and--"it is certain that Bryan is the incarnation of our independence."

"'The number of men opposed to the policy of the administration was said to be continually
increasing.

"'The attitude of those who protect us cannot be more manly and resolute: "Continue the struggle
until you conquer or die." Mr. Beecher of the League in Cincinnati writes us: "I shall always
be the champion of the cause of justice and of truth," says Mr. Winslow of the Boston League.
"Not even threats of imprisonment will make me cease in my undertaking," Doctor Denziger assures
us. "I shall accept every risk and responsibility," says Doctor Leverson. "If it is necessary,
I shall go so far as to provoke a revolution in my own country," repeats Mr. Udell. "It is
necessary to save the Republic and democracy from the abyss of imperialism and save the worthy
Filipinos from oppression and extermination" is cried by all, and the sound of this cry is
ever rising louder and louder.'" [434]

Extract from a letter of Papa Isio [435] dated March 4, 1901:--

"I have received from Luzón an order to proceed more rapidly with my operations this month,
as Bryan ordered Emilío to keep the war going vigorously until April, and he also said that
if independence was not given the Philippines by that time, he, Bryan, and his followers would
rise in arms against the oppressors." [436]

"Tarlac, Oct. 26, 1899.

"To the Military Governor of This City, and To the Secretary of the Interior.

"As a meeting shall be held on the morning of Sunday next in the Presidential Palace of this
Republic in return for that held in the United States by Mr. Bryan, who drank to the name of
our Honourable President as one of the heroes of the world, and for the purpose of celebrating
it with more pomp and contributing to it the greater splendor with your personnel, I will be
obliged to you if you will please call at this office to confer with me on the matter.

"God preserve you, etc.

(Signed) "F. Buencamino." [437]

In a letter written by A. Flores, acting secretary of war, to the military governor of Tarlac
on October 27, 1899, there occurs the following:--

"In the United States meetings and banquets have been held in honor of our Honourable President,
Don Emilio Aguinaldo, who was pronounced one of the heroes of the world by Mr. Bryan, future
president of the United States. The Masonic Society, therefore, interpreting the unanimous
desires of the people, and with the approval of the government, will on Sunday the 29th instant,
organize a meeting or popular assembly in the interest of national independence and in honor
of Mr. Bryan of the anti-imperialist party, the defenders of our cause in the United States.
The meeting will consist of two functions; first--at nine A.M. of the 29th the assembly will
convene in a suitable place, a national hymn will inaugurate the exercises, after which appropriate
addresses will be delivered; and second--at four P.M. a popular demonstration will take place
throughout the town, with bands of music parading the streets; residents will decorate and
illuminate their houses.

"Which I have the pleasure of transmitting to you for your information and guidance and for
that of the troops under your command." [438]

CHAPTER XI

The First Philippine Commission

I have elsewhere mentioned the appointment of the First Philippine Commission.

On January 18, 1899, its civilian members met at Washington and received the President's instructions.

We were directed to meet at the earliest possible day in the city of Manila and to announce
by a public proclamation our presence and the mission intrusted to us, carefully setting forth
that while the established military government would be continued as long as necessity might
require, efforts would be made to alleviate the burden of taxation, to establish industrial
and commercial prosperity and to provide for the safety of persons and property by such means
as might be found conducive to those ends.

We were authorized to recommend suitable persons for appointment to offices, made necessary
by personal changes in the existing civil administration, from among the inhabitants who had
previously acknowledged their allegiance to the American government.

We were to "ever use due respect for all the ideals, customs and institutions of the tribes
which compose the population, emphasizing upon all occasions the just and beneficent intentions
of the United States," and were commissioned on account of our "knowledge, skill, and integrity
as bearers of the good-will, the protection and the richest blessings of a liberating rather
than a conquering nation." [439]

Nothing could be more false than Blount's insinuation that we were sent out to help Otis run
the war. [440] There was no war when we started, and we were expressly enjoined from interfering
with the military government or its officers. We were sent to deliver a message of good-will,
to investigate, and to recommend, and there our powers ended.

Mr. Schurman and I, with a small clerical force, sailed from Vancouver, January 31, 1899. On
our arrival at Yokohama we learned with keen regret of the outbreak of hostilities at Manila.

Blount has incorrectly stated that President McKinley had sent the commission out when the
dogs of war were already let loose. [441] The dogs of war had not been loosed when we started,
and one of the main purposes in sending us was to keep them in their kennels if possible.

Aguinaldo has made the following statements in his "Reseña Verídica":--

"... We, the Filipinos, would have received said commission, as honourable agents of the great
America, with demonstrations of true kindness and entire adhesion. The commissioners would
have toured over all our provinces, seeing and observing at close range order and tranquillity,
in the whole of our territory. They would have seen the fields tilled and planted. They would
have examined our Constitution and public administration, in perfect peace, and they would
have experienced and enjoyed that ineffable charm of our Oriental manner, a mixture of abandon
and solicitude, of warmth and of frigidity, of confidence and of suspiciousness, which makes
our relations with foreigners change into a thousand colours, agreeable to the utmost.

"Ah! but this landscape suited neither General Otis nor the Imperialists! For their criminal
intention it was better that the American commissioners should find war and desolation in the
Philippines, perceiving from the day of their arrival the fetid stench emitted by the mingled
corpses of Americans and Filipinos. For their purposes it was better that that gentleman, Mr.
Schurman, President of the Commission, could not leave Manila, limiting himself to listen to
the few Filipinos, who, having yielded to the reasonings of gold, were partisans of the Imperialists.
It was better that the commission should contemplate the Philippine problem through conflagrations,
to the whiz of bullets, on the transverse light of all the unchained passions, in order that
it might not form any exact or complete opinion of the natural and proper limits of said problem.
Ah! it was better, in short, that the commission should leave defeated in not having secured
peace, and would blame me and the other Filipinos, when I and the whole Filipino people anxiously
desired that peace should have been secured before rather than now, but an honourable and worthy
peace for the United States and for the Philippine Republic." [442]

These statements, made to deceive the public, make interesting reading in the light of our
present knowledge as to the purposes and plans of Aguinaldo and his associates.

On our arrival at Yokohama we were promptly informed by a secretary from the United States
Legation that no less a personage than Marquis Ito had been in frequent communication with
the Filipinos since 1894, that they had been looking to him for advice and support, and that
he had interested himself in the present situation sufficiently to come to the American minister
and offer to go to the Philippines, not in any sense as an agent of the United States, but
as a private individual, and to use his influence in our behalf. His contention was that the
then existing conditions resulted from misunderstandings.

He said that Americans did not understand Asiatics, but he was an Asiatic himself and did understand
the Filipinos, and thought that he eould settle the whole affair. The minister had cabled to
Washington for instructions. Naturally the offer was not accepted.

I was reminded, by this extraordinary incident, of a previous occurrence. I spent the month
of March, 1893, in Tokio when returning from my second visit to the Philippines, and was kindly
invited to inspect the zoölogical work at the Imperial University. When I visited the institution
for that purpose, I was questioned very closely on the islands, their people and their resources.
The gentlemen who interrogated me may have been connected with the university, but I doubt it.

We reached Hongkong on February 22. Here I had an interview with Dr. Apacible of the junta,
while Mr. Schurman visited Canton. Apacible told me that the Filipinos wanted an independent
republic under an American protectorate. Pressed for the details of their desires, he said
that "the function of a protector is to protect." Further than that he could not go. I tried
to convince him of the hopelessness of the course the Filipinos were then pursuing and of the
kindly intentions of my government, but felt that I made no impression on him.

We arrived at Manila on March 4, 1899, too late to land. Firebugs were abroad. We watched a
number of houses burn, and heard the occasional crackle of rifle fire along the line of the
defences around the city. The next morning there was artillery fire for a time at San Pedro
Macáti. Everywhere were abundant evidences that the war was on.

This left little for us to do at the moment except to inform ourselves as to conditions, especially
as Colonel Denby had not yet arrived, and General Otis was overwhelmed with work and anxiety.

I renewed my acquaintance with many old Filipino and Spanish friends and improved the opportunity,
not likely to recur in my experience, to see as much as possible of the fighting in the field.

One day when I was at San Pedro Macáti, Captain Dyer, who commanded a battery of 3.2-inch guns
there, suggested that if I wished to investigate the effect of shrapnel fire I could do so
by visiting a place on a neighbouring hillside which he indicated. Acting upon his suggestion,
I set out, accompanied by my private secretary, who, like myself, was clad in white duck. The
Insurgent sharpshooters on the other side of the river devoted some attention to us, but we
knew that so long as they aimed at us we were quite safe. Few of their bullets came within
hearing distance.

We were hunting about on the hillside for the place indicated by Captain Dyer, when suddenly
we heard ourselves cursed loudly and fluently in extremely plain American, and there emerged
from a neighbouring thicket a very angry infantry officer. On venturing to inquire the cause
of his most uncomplimentary remarks, I found that he was in command of skirmishers who were
going through the brush to see whether there was anything left there which needed shooting
up. As many of the Insurgent soldiers dressed in white, and as American civilians were not
commonly to be met in Insurgent territory, these men had been just about to fire on us when
they discovered their mistake. We went back to Manila and bought some khaki clothes.

At first my interest in military matters was not appreciated by my army friends, who could
not see what business I had to be wandering around without a gun in places where guns were
in use. I had, however, long since discovered that reliable first-hand information on any subject
is likely to be useful sooner or later, and so it proved in this case.

For several weeks after we reached Manila there was no active military movement; then came
the inauguration of the short, sharp campaign which ended for the moment with the taking of
Malolos. For long, tedious weeks our soldiers had sweltered in muddy trenches, shot at by an
always invisible foe whom they were not allowed to attack. It was anticipated that when the
forward movement began, it would be active. Close secrecy was maintained with regard to it.
Captain Hedworth Lambton, of the British cruiser Powerful, then lying in Manila Bay, exacted
a promise from me that I would tell him if I found out when the advance was to begin, so that
we might go to Caloocan together and watch the fighting from the church tower, which commanded
a magnificent view of the field of operations.

I finally heard a fairly definite statement that our troops would move the following morning.
I rushed to General Otis's office and after some parleying had it confirmed by him. It was
then too late to advise Lambton, and in fact I could not properly have done so, as the information
had been given me under pledge of secrecy. Accompanied by my private secretary, Dr. P. L. Sherman,
I hastened to Caloocan, where we arrived just at dusk, having had to run the gantlet of numerous
inquisitive sentries en route.

We spent the night in the church, where General Wheaton and his staff had their headquarters,
and long before daylight were perched in a convenient opening in its galvanized iron roof,
made on a former occasion by a shell from Dewey's fleet.

From this vantage point we could see the entire length of the line of battle. The attack began
shortly after daylight. Near Caloocan the Insurgent works were close in, but further off toward
La Loma they were in some places distant a mile or more from the trenches of the Americans.

The general plan of attack was that the whole American line should rotate to the north and
west on Caloocan as a pivot, driving the Insurgents in toward Malabon if possible. The latter
began to fire as soon as the American troops showed themselves, regardless of the fact that
their enemies were quite out of range. As most of them were using black-powder cartridges,
their four or five miles of trenches were instantly outlined. The ground was very dry so that
the bullets threw up puffs of dust where they struck, and it was possible to judge the accuracy
of the fire of each of the opposing forces.

Rather heavy resistance was encountered on the extreme right, and the turning movement did
not materialize as rapidly as had been hoped. General Wheaton, who was in command of the forces
about the church, finally moved to the front, and as we were directly in the rear of his line
and the Insurgents, as usual, overshot badly, we found ourselves in an uncomfortably hot corner.
Bullets rattled on the church roof like hail, and presently one passed through the opening
through which Major Bourns, Colonel Potter, of the engineer corps, and I were sticking our
heads. Immediately thereafter we were observed by Dr. Sherman making record time on all fours
along one of the framing timbers of the church toward its tower. There we took up our station,
and thereafter observed the fighting by peeping through windows partially closed with blocks
of volcanic tuff. We had a beautiful opportunity to see the artillery fire. The guns were directly
in front of and below us and we could watch the laying of the several pieces and then turn
our field-glasses on the particular portions of the Insurgent trenches where the projectiles
were likely to strike. Again and again we caught bursting shells in the fields of our glasses
and could thus see their effect as accurately as if we had been standing close by, without
any danger of being perforated by shrapnel.

After the Insurgent position had been carried we walked forward to their line of trenches and
followed it east to a point beyond the La Loma Church, counting the dead and wounded, as I
had heard wild stories of tremendous slaughter and wanted to see just how much damage the fire
of our troops had really done. On our way we passed the Caloocan railroad station which had
been converted into a temporary field hospital. Here I saw good Father McKinnon, the champlain
of the First California Volunteers, assisting a surgeon and soaked with the blood of wounded
men. He was one chaplain in a thousand. It was always easy to find him. One had only to look
where trouble threatened and help was needed. He was sure to be there.

On my way from the railway station to the trenches I met a very much excited officer returning
from the front. He had evidently had a long and recent interview with Cyrus Noble, [443] and
was determined to tell me all about the fighting. I escaped from him after some delay, and
with much difficulty. Later he remembered having met me, but made a grievous mistake as to
the scene of our encounter, insisting that we had been together in "Wheaton's Hole," an uncommonly
hot position where numerous people got hurt. He persisted in giving a graphic account of our
experiences, and in paying high tribute to my coolness and courage under heavy fire. My efforts
to persuade him that I had not been with him there proved futile, and I finally gave up the
attempt. I wonder how many other military reputations rest upon so slender a foundation! This
experience was unique. I never saw another officer under the influence of liquor when in the field.

At the time that we visited the Insurgent trenches, not all of our own killed and wounded had
been removed, yet every wounded Insurgent whom we found had a United States army canteen of
water at his side, obviously left by some kindly American soldier. Not a few of the injured
had been furnished hardtack as well. All were ultimately taken to Manila and there given the
best of care by army surgeons.

Sometime later a most extraordinary account of this fight, written by a soldier, was published
in the Springfield Republican. It was charged that our men had murdered prisoners in cold blood,
and had committed all manner of barbarities, the writer saying among other things:--

"We first bombarded a town called Malabon and then entered it and killed every man, woman and
child in the place."

The facts were briefly as follows: There was an Insurgent regiment in and near a mangrove swamp
to the right of this town. When it became obstreperous it was shelled for a short time until
it quieted down again. None of the shells entered the town. Indeed, most of them struck in
the water. Our troops did not enter Malabon that day, but passed to the northward, leaving
behind a small guard to keep the Insurgents from coming out of Malabon in their rear. Had they
then entered the town, they would not have found any women, children or non-combatant men to
kill for the reason that all such persons had been sent away some time before. The town was
burned, in part, but by the Insurgents themselves. They fired the church and a great orphan
asylum, and did much other wanton damage.

Being able to speak from personal observation as to the occurrences of that day, I sent a long
cablegram direct to the Chicago Times-Herald stating the facts. After my return to the United
States, President McKinley was kind enough to say to me that if there had been no other result
from the visit of the first Philippine Commission to the islands than the sending of that cablegram,
he should have considered the expense involved more than justified. He added that the country
was being flooded at the time with false and slanderous rumours, and people at home did not
know what to believe. The statements of army officers were discounted in advance, and other
testimony from some unprejudiced source was badly needed.

On April 2, 1899, Colonel Denby arrived, and our serious work began. The fighting continued
and there was little that we could do save earnestly to strive to promote friendly relations
with the conservative element among the Filipinos, and to gather the information we had been
instructed to obtain.

On April 4, 1899, we issued a proclamation setting forth in clear and simple language the purposes
of the American government. [444] It was translated into Tagálog and other dialects and widely
circulated. The Insurgent leaders were alert to keep the common people and the soldiers from
learning of the kindly purposes of the United States. They were forbidden to read the document
and we were reliably informed that the imposition of the death penalty was threatened if this
order was violated. In Manila crowds of Filipinos gathered about copies of the proclamation
which were posted in public places. Many of them were soon effaced by Insurgent agents or sympathizers.

This document unquestionably served a very useful purpose. [445] For one thing, it promptly
brought us into much closer touch with the more conservative Filipinos.

We soon established relations of friendliness and confidence with men like Arellano, Torres,
Legarda and Tavera, who had left the Malolos government when it demonstrated its futility,
and were ready to turn to the United States for help. Insurgent sympathizers also conferred
freely with us. We were invited to a beautiful function given in our honour at the home of
a wealthy family, and were impressed, as no one can fail to be, with the dignified bearing
of our Filipino hosts, a thing which is always in evidence on such occasions. We gave a return
function which was largely attended and greatly aided in the establishment of relations of
confidence and friendship with leading Filipino residents of Manila.

The Filipinos were much impressed with Colonel Denby. He was a handsome man, of imposing presence,
with one of the kindest hearts that ever beat. They felt instinctively that they could have
confidence in him, and showed it on all occasions.

Meanwhile we lost no opportunity to inform ourselves as to conditions and events, conferring
with Filipinos from various parts of the archipelago and with Chinese, Germans, Frenchmen,
Belgians, Austrians, Englishmen, Spaniards and Americans. Among the witnesses who came before
us were farmers, bankers, brokers, merchants, lawyers, physicians, railroad men, shipowners,
educators and public officials. Certainly all classes of opinion were represented, and when
we were called upon by the President, a little later, for a statement of the situation we felt
fully prepared to make it.

Blount has charged that the commission attempted to interfere with the conduct of the war,
and cites a cablegram from General Otis stating that conferences with Insurgents cost soldiers'
lives in support of this contention. No conference with Insurgent leaders was ever held without
the previous knowledge and approval of the general, who was himself a member of the commission.

Late in April General Luna sent Colonel Arguelles of his staff to ask for a fifteen days' suspension
of hostilities under the pretext of enabling the Insurgent congress to meet at San Fernando,
Pampanga, on May 1, to discuss the situation and decide what it wanted to do. He called on
the commission and urged us to ask Otis to grant this request, but we declined to intervene,
and General Otis refused to grant it.

Mabini continued Luna's effort, sending Arguelles back with letters to Otis and to the commission.
In the latter he asked for "an armistice and a suspension of hostilities as an indispensable
means of arriving at peace," stating explicitly that the Philippine government "does not solicit
the armistice to gain a space of time in which to reënforce itself."

The commission again referred Arguelles to General Otis on the matter of armistice and suspension
of hostilities. We suspected that the statement that these things were not asked for in order
to gain time was false, and this has since been definitely established.

Taylor says:--

"On April 11 Mabini wrote to General Luna (Exhibit 719) that Aguinaldo's council was of the
opinion that no negotiations for the release of the Spanish prisoners should be considered
unless the American Commission agreed to a suspension of hostilities for the purpose of treating,
not only in regard to the prisoners, but for the purpose of opening negotiations between Aguinaldo's
government and the American authorities.

"'In arriving at this decision we have been actuated by the desire to gain time for our arsenals
to produce sufficient cartridges, if, as would seem to be probable, they persist in not even
recognizing our belligerency, as means for furthering the recognition of our independence.'" [446]

Arguelles, on his return, was instructed to ask Otis for a--

"general armistice and suspension of hostilities in all the archipelago for the short space
of three months, in order to enable it to consult the opinion of the people concerning the
government which would be the most advantageous, and the intervention in it which should be
given to the North American Government, and to appoint an extraordinary commission with full
powers, to act in the name of the Philippine people." [447]

General Otis naturally again declined to grant the request for a suspension of hostilities.

Little came of the conference between Arguelles and the commission, except that we really succeeded
in convincing him of the good intentions of our government, and this promptly got him into
very serious trouble, as we shall soon see. I took him to a tent hospital on the First Reserve
Hospital grounds where wounded Insurgents were receiving the best of treatment at the hands
of American surgeons, and he was amazed. He had been taught to believe that the Americans murdered
prisoners, raped women, and committed similar barbarities whenever they got a chance. As we
have seen, stories of this sort were industriously spread by many of the Insurgent leaders
among their soldiers, and among the common people as well. They served to arouse the passions
of the former, and stirred them up to acts of devilish brutality which they might perhaps not
otherwise have perpetrated. Arguelles told the truth upon his return, and this, together with
his suggestion that it might be well to consider the acceptance of the form of government offered
by the United States, nearly cost him his life. Relative to this matter Taylor says:--

"When Arguelles returned to the insurgent lines, it must have been considered that he had said
too much in Manila. While he had been sent there to persuade the Americans to agree to a suspension
of hostilities to be consumed in endless discussion under cover of which Luna's army could
be reorganized, he had not only failed to secure the desired armistice, but had come back with
the opinion that it might after all be advisable to accept the government proposed by the United
States. On May 22 General Luna ordered his arrest and trial for being in favour of the autonomy
of the United States in the Philippine Islands. He was tried promptly, the prosecuting witness
being another officer of Luna's staff who had accompanied him to Manila and acted as a spy
upon his movements (P.I.R., 285. 2). The court sentenced him to dismissal and confinement at
hard labor for twelve years. This did not satisfy Luna's thirst for vengeance, and he was imprisoned
in Bautista on the first floor of a building whose second story was occupied by that officer.
One night Luna came alone into the room where he was confined and told him that although he
was a traitor, yet he had done good service to the cause; and it was not proper that a man
who had been a colonel in the army should be seen working on the roads under a guard. He told
him that the proper thing for him to do was to blow his brains out, and that if he did not
do it within a reasonable time the sentinel at his door would shoot him. He gave him a pistol
and left the room. Arguelles decided not to kill himself, but fully expected that the guard
would kill him. Shortly afterwards Luna was summoned to meet Aguinaldo, and never returned.
On September 29, 1899, his sentence was declared null and void and he was reinstated in his
former rank (P.I.R., 285. 3, and 2030. 2)." [448]

Colonel Arguelles has told me exactly the same story. For a time it seemed as if the views
expressed by him might prevail.

"According to Felipe Buencamino and some others, the majority of the members of congress had
been in favour of absolute independence until they saw the demoralization of the officers and
soldiers which resulted in the American occupation of Malolos. In the middle of April, 1899,
they remembered Arellano's advice, and all of the intelligent men in Aguinaldo's government,
except Antonio Luna and the officers who had no desire to lay down their military rank, decided
to accept the sovereignty of the United States. At about the same time copies of the proclamation
issued by the American Commission in Manila reached them and still further influenced them
toward the adoption of this purpose. By the time congress met in San Isidro on May 1, 1899,
all of the members had accepted it except a few partisans of Mabini, then president of the
council of government. At its first meeting the congress resolved to change the policy of war
with the United States to one of peace, and this change of policy in congress led to the fall
of Mabini and his succession by Paterno. The first act of the new council was the appointment
of a commission headed by Felipe Buencamino which was to go to Manila and there negotiate with
the American authorities for an honourable surrender." [449]

"Although Mabini had fallen from power, Luna and his powerful faction had still to be reckoned
with. He was less moderate than Mabini, and had armed adherents, which Mabini did not, and
when Paterno declared his policy of moderation and diplomacy he answered it on the day the
new council of government was proclaimed by an order that all foreigners living in the Philippines
except Chinese and Spaniards, should leave for Manila within forty-eight hours." [450]

Unfortunately Luna intercepted the Buencamino commission. Its head he kicked, cuffed and threatened
with a revolver. One of its members was General Gregorio del Pilar. He was allowed to proceed,
as he commanded a brigade of troops which might have deserted had he been badly treated, but
Luna named three other men to go with him in place of those who had been originally appointed.
[451] They were Gracio Gonzaga, Captain Zialcita, and Alberto Baretto. They reached Manila
on May 19, 1899, and during their stay there had two long interviews with the commission.

They said that they had come, with larger powers than had been conferred on Arguelles, to discuss
the possibility of peace, the form of ultimate government which might be proposed in future,
and the attitude of the United States government toward needed reforms.

Meanwhile, on May 4, we had laid before the President a plan of government informally discussed
with Arguelles, and had received the following reply, authorizing, in substance, what we had
suggested:--

"Washington, May 5, 1899, 10.20 P.M.

"Schurman, Manila:

"Yours 4th received. You are authorized to propose that under the military power of the President,
pending action of Congress, government of the Philippine Islands shall consist of a governor-general,
appointed by the President; cabinet, appointed by the governor-general; a general advisory
council elected by the people; the qualifications of electors to be carefully considered and
determined; the governor-general to have absolute veto. Judiciary strong and independent; principal
judges appointed by the President. The cabinet and judges to be chosen from natives or Americans,
or both, having regard to fitness. The President earnestly desires the cessation of bloodshed,
and that the people of the Philippine Islands at an early date shall have the largest measure
of local self-government consistent with peace and good order.

"Hay." [452]

Our proclamation of April 4, 1899, was also taken up at their request and was gone over minutely,
sentence by sentence. We were asked to explain certain expressions which they did not fully
understand.

They told us that it would be hard for their army to lay down its arms when it had accomplished
nothing, and asked if it could be taken into the service of the United States. We answered
that some of the regiments might be taken over and employment on public works be found for
the soldiers of others.

We endeavoured to arrange for an interview with Aguinaldo, either going to meet him or assuring
him safe conduct should he desire to confer with us at Manila.

They left, promising to return in three weeks when they had had time to consider the matters
under discussion, but they never came back.

Shortly thereafter there was an odd occurrence. Soon after our arrival we had learned that
Mr. Schurman was a man of very variable opinions. He was rather readily convinced by plausible
arguments, but sometimes very suddenly reversed his views on an important subject.

At the outset Archbishop Nozaleda made a great impression upon him. The Archbishop was a thoroughgoing
Spaniard of the old school, and entertained somewhat radical opinions as to what should be
done to end the distressing situation which existed. After talking with him Mr. Schurman seemed
to be convinced that we ought to adopt a stern and bloody policy, a conclusion to which Colonel
Denby and I decidedly objected.

A little later he made a trip up the Pasig River with Admiral Dewey and others and had a chance
to see something of the aftermath of war. It was not at all pretty. It never is. I was waiting
for him with a carriage at the river landing on his return and had hard work to keep him away
from the cable office. His feelings had undergone a complete revulsion. He insisted that if
the American people knew what we were doing they would demand that the war be terminated immediately
at any cost and by whatsoever means, and he wanted to tell them all about it at once. By the
next morning, however, things fortunately looked rather differently to him.

Mr. Schurman acquired a working knowledge of the Spanish language with extraordinary promptness.
Shortly thereafter Colonel Denby and I discovered that when Filipinos came to see the commission
in order to impart information or to seek it, he was conferring with them privately and sending
them away without our seeing them at all.

Soon after we had made our formal statement of the situation to the President, Mr. Schurman
had an interview with an Englishman who had been living in Insurgent territory north of Manila,
from which he had just been ejected, in accordance with Luna's order. This man told him all
about the mistakes of the Americans and evidently greatly impressed him, for shortly thereafter
he read to us at a commission meeting a draft of a proposed cablegram which he said he hoped
we would approve. It would have stultified us, had we signed it, as it involved in effect the
abandonment of the position we had so recently taken and a radical change in the policy we
had recommended. Mr. Schurman told us that if we did not care to sign it, he would send it
as an expression of his personal opinion. Colonel Denby asked him if his personal opinion differed
from his official opinion, and received an affirmative reply. We declined to approve the proposed
cablegram, whereupon he informed us that if his policy were adopted, he and General Aguinaldo
would settle things without assistance from us, and that otherwise he would resign. He inquired
whether we, too, would send a cable, and we told him certainly not, unless further information
from us was requested. He sent his proposed message, in somewhat modified form, and received
a prompt reply instructing him to submit it to the full commission and cable their views.

He did submit it to Colonel Denby and myself at a regularly called commission meeting, argued
that in doing this he had obeyed the President's instructions, and vowed that he would not
show it to General Otis. I showed it to the General myself, allowing him to believe that I
did so with Mr. Schurman's approval, and thus avoided serious trouble, as he had been personally
advised from Washington of the instructions to Mr. Schurman. The General then joined with Colonel
Denby and myself in a cablegram setting forth our views, and so this incident ended.

Mr. Schurman did not resign, but thereafter we saw very little of him. He made a hasty trip
to the Visayas and the Southern Islands and sailed for the United States shortly after his
return to Manila, being anxious to get back in time for the opening of the college year at Cornell.

Colonel Denby and I were instructed to remain at Manila, where we rendered such assistance
as we could give, and continued to gather information relative to the situation, the country
and the people. In this latter work we were given invaluable help by Jesuit priests, who prepared
for us a comprehensive monograph embodying a very large amount of valuable information, and
furnished us a series of new maps as well. The latter were subsequently published by the United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey in the form of an Atlas of the Philippines.

Early in September we had a most interesting interview with Sr. José de Luzuriaga, a distinguished
and patriotic Filipino from western Negros, where American sovereignty had been accepted without
resistance. Up to that time it had been possible for the people of Negros to keep out Tagálog
invaders. Sr. Luzuriaga assured us that so long as this condition continued, there would be
no trouble, and he was quite right.

Aguinaldo's agents eventually gained a foothold there for a short time, and did some mischief,
but it did not result very seriously.

We felt an especial interest in this island, as General Otis had asked us carefully to study
and to criticise a scheme for its government which had been drafted by General James F. Smith,
who afterward became justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines, secretary of public instruction
and governor-general of the islands, and was then in command of the troops in Negros.

General Lawton arrived in the Philippines during our stay. His coming had been eagerly looked
forward to by the army. He had sailed with the understanding that he was to be put in charge
of field operations. While he was at sea, influences were brought to bear which changed this plan.

It is my firm conviction that if Lawton had been put in command, the war would have ended promptly.
He was a wonderful man in the field. He possessed the faculty of instilling his own tremendous
energy into his officers and men, whose privations and dangers he shared, thereby arousing
an unfaltering loyalty which stood him in good stead in time of need. If there was fighting
to be done, he promptly and thoroughly whipped everything in sight. He punished looting and
disorder with a heavy hand, treated prisoners and noncombatants with the utmost kindness, and
won the good-will of all Filipinos with whom he came in contact.

General MacArthur was always declaring that the Filipinos were a unit against us and that he
could never get information from them. General Lawton never lacked for such information as
he needed, and constantly and successfully used the Filipinos themselves as messengers and
for other purposes. I came to know him intimately, and learned to admire and love him as did
all those who had that great privilege.

For some time I had charge of his spies. Never have men taken longer chances than did the faithful
few who at this time furnished us with information as to events in Insurgent territory. Discovery
meant prompt and cruel death. For a long time Major F. S. Bourns had performed the uncongenial
task of directing the spies. He was then the chief health officer of Manila, and as all sorts
of people were compelled to consult him on sanitary matters, visits to his office aroused no
suspicion. He spoke Spanish, and this was imperatively necessary. Our spies simply would not
communicate results through interpreters. The facts revealed by the Insurgent records show
how right they were in refusing to do so.

Major Bourns eventually returned to the United States. His work was taken over by an army officer,
with the result that two of our best men died very suddenly in that gentleman's back yard.
As I spoke Spanish, and as all sorts of people came to see the commission, I was the logical
candidate for this job, which I thereupon inherited.

Each morning, if there was news, I myself laboriously thumped out my notes on the typewriter,
making an original and one copy. The copy I took at once to General Lawton. The original I
took, later, to General Otis.

General Lawton was firmly convinced that most army officers were unfitted by their training
to perform civil functions. He organized municipal governments with all possible promptness
in the towns occupied by his troops, and in this work he requested my assistance, which I was
of course glad to give. Sr. Felipe Calderon drafted a simple provisional scheme of municipal
government which I submitted for criticism to that most distinguished and able of Filipinos,
Sr. Cayetano Arellano. [453] When the final changes in it had been made, I accompanied General
Lawton on a trip to try putting it into effect. We held elections and established municipal
governments in a number of the towns just south of Manila, and in some of those along the Pasig
River.

General Otis watched our operations and their results narrowly, and was sufficiently well pleased
with the latter to order General Kobbé to follow a similar course in various towns on or near
the railroad north of Manila. Kobbé did not profess to know much about municipal government,
and asked me to go with him and help until he got the hang of the thing, which I did.

Thus it happened that the first Philippine Commission had a sort of left-handed interest in
the first municipal governments established in the islands under American rule.

In his endeavour to show that the Commission interfered with military operations, Blount has
ascribed certain statements to Major Starr. He says: " ... at San Isidro on or about November
8, Major Starr said: 'We took this town last spring,' stating how much our loss had been in
so doing, 'but partly as a result of the Schurman commission parleying with the Insurgents,
General Otis had us fall back. We have just had to take it again.'" [454]

If Major Starr ever made such a statement he was sadly misinformed. General Lawton was the
best friend I ever had in the United States Army. I saw him almost daily when he was in Manila,
and he showed me the whole telegraphic correspondence which passed between him and General
Otis on the subject of the withdrawal from San Isidro and Nueva Ecija, which was certainly
one of the most ill advised moves that any military commander was ever compelled to make. General
Lawton's unremitting attacks had absolutely demoralized the Insurgent force, and my information
is that when he finally turned back, Aguinaldo and several members of his cabinet were waiting,
ten miles away, to surrender to him when he next advanced, believing that they could never
escape from him. I have not the telegraphic correspondence before me, but I remember its salient
features. Otis ordered Lawton to withdraw, and Lawton, convinced of the inadvisability of the
measure, objected. Otis replied that, with the rainy season coming on, he could neither provision
him nor furnish him ammunition. Lawton answered that he had provisions enough to last three
weeks and ammunition enough to finish the war, whereupon Otis peremptorily ordered him to withdraw.
The Philippine Commission had no more to do with this matter than they had to do with the similar
order against advancing which Otis sent Lawton on the day the latter won the Zapote River fight,
when the Insurgents were running all over the Province of Cavite. Lawton wanted to push forward
and clean the whole place up. The reply to his request to be allowed to do so ran, if memory
serves me well, as follows:--

"Do nothing. You have accomplished all that was expected of you."

Later on, Lawton and his devoted officers and men had to duplicate the fierce campaign which
had resulted in the taking of San Isidro. This made possible the movement that Lawton had had
in mind in the first instance, which was made with the result that organized armed resistance
to the authority of the United States promptly ceased in northern Luzón.

While on this subject I wish to record the fact that shortly after his return from the San
Isidro campaign General Lawton asked me to accompany him on a visit to General Otis and act
as a witness. I did so. In my presence Lawton said to Otis that if the latter would give him
two regiments, would allow him to arm, equip and provision them to suit himself, and would
turn him loose, he would stake his reputation as a soldier, and his position in the United
States Army, on the claim that within sixty days he would end the insurrection and would deliver
to General Otis one Emilio Aguinaldo, dead or alive. The general laughed at his offer. General
Lawton asked me some day to make these facts public. As life is an uncertain thing, I deem
it proper to do so now. Personally I am convinced that if his offer had been accepted he would
have kept his promise.

On September 15, 1899, Colonel Denby and I sailed for the United States, having been recalled
to Washington. Shortly after our arrival there the commission issued a brief preliminary report.
The winter was spent in the preparation of our final report, which constituted a full and authoritative
treatise on the islands, the people and their resources. Father José Algué, the distinguished
head of the Philippine Weather Bureau, was called to Washington to help us, and gave us invaluable
assistance.

Our preliminary report, dated November 2, 1899, and the first volume of our final report, published
on January 31, 1900, contained our observations and recommendations relative to political matters.

Mr. Schurman has been credited with saying in an address made on January 11, 1902: "Any decent
kind of government of Filipinos by Filipinos is better than the best possible government of
Filipinos by Americans." [455]

On November 2, 1900, he signed the following statement: [456]--

"Should our power by any fatality be withdrawn, the commission believe that the government
of the Philippines would speedily lapse into anarchy, which would excuse, if it did not necessitate,
the intervention of other powers and the eventual division of the islands among them. Only
through American occupation, therefore, is the idea of a free, self-governing, and united Philippine
commonwealth at all conceivable. And the indispensable need from the Filipino point of view
of maintaining American sovereignty over the archipelago is recognized by all intelligent Filipinos
and even by those insurgents who desire an American protectorate. The latter, it is true, would
take the revenues and leave us the responsibilities. Nevertheless, they recognize the indubitable
fact that the Filipinos cannot stand alone. Thus the welfare of the Filipinos coincides with
the dictates of national honour in forbidding our abandonment of the archipelago. We cannot
from any point of view escape the responsibilities of government which our sovereignty entails;
and the commission is strongly persuaded that the performance of our national duty will prove
the greatest blessing to the peoples of the Philippine Islands."

More than fourteen years' experience in governmental work in the Philippines has profoundly
impressed me with the fundamental soundness of these conclusions of the first Philippine Commission.
Every statement then made still holds true.

CHAPTER XII

The Establishment of Civil Government

The first Philippine Commission did not complete its work until March, 1900. By this time conditions
had so far improved in the archipelago that President McKinley was prepared to initiate a movement
looking toward the establishment of civil government there. Our appointments were dated March
16, 1900. Our instructions which were full, are given in the appendix. [457] I was the only
member of the first commission to be reappointed. Neither General Otis nor Admiral Dewey cared
to serve, and indeed the professional duties of each of them rendered his appointment to the
new commission difficult, if not impossible. Mr. Schurman had at one time expressed himself
as vigorously opposed to the idea of a new commission, maintaining that the best results could
be obtained by the appointment of a civil governor with wide powers. It was therefore taken
for granted that he would not desire reappointment. Colonel Denby was keenly interested in
the work and would have been glad to continue it, but he was past seventy and with his good
wife had then spent some fifteen years in the Far East. He doubted whether his strength would
be adequate to bear the strain of the arduous task which obviously lay before the new commission,
and Mrs. Denby desired to remain in the United States where she could be near her children
from whom she had been long separated, so her husband felt constrained to say that he did not
wish to return to the Philippines.

I separated from him with the keenest regret. He was an amiable, tactful man of commanding
ability and unimpeachable integrity, actuated by the best of motives and loyal to the highest
ideals. He constantly sought to avoid not only evil but the appearance of evil. I count it
one of the great privileges of my life to have been associated with him. The one thing in the
book written by James H. Blount which aroused my ire was his characterization of Colonel Denby
as a hypocrite. No falser, meaner, more utterly contemptible statement was ever made, and when
I read it the temptation rose hot within me to make public Blount's personal Philippine record,
but after the first heat of anger had passed I remembered what the good old Colonel would have
wished me to do in such a case, and forbore.

The second Philippine commission, hereinafter referred to as "the commission," received its
instructions on April 7, 1900.

They covered a most delicate and complicated subject, namely, the gradual transfer of control
from military to civil authority in a country extensive regions of which were still in open
rebellion. It was provided that we should continue and perfect the work of organizing and establishing
civil governments already commenced by the military authorities. In doing this we were to act
as a board of which Mr. Taft was designated president. It was contemplated that the transfer
of authority from military commanders to civil officers would be gradual, and full and complete
coöperation between these authorities was enjoined. Having familiarized ourselves with the
conditions then prevailing in the islands, we were to devote our attention first to the establishment
of municipal governments, in which the natives should be given the opportunity to manage their
local affairs to the fullest extent and with the least supervision and control found to be
practicable.

Beginning with September 1, 1900, we were authorized to exercise, subject to the approval of
the President and the secretary of war, the legislative power, which was then to be transferred
from the military governor to us until the establishment of civil central government, or until
Congress should otherwise provide. If necessity demanded, we were authorized to make changes
in the existing system of taxation and in the body of the laws under which the people were
governed, although such changes were to be relegated to the civil government which we were
to establish later, so far as might be.

It has been the fashion in some quarters to sneer at the last of these paragraphs, and to insinuate,
if not to charge, that President McKinley in his policy toward the Philippine Islands was actuated
by unworthy motives. Nothing could be further from the truth. From the beginning to the end
the real good of the several peoples of the archipelago came first with him, and no one who
had the privilege of knowing him well doubts it. Thoroughly imbued with the lofty sentiments
expressed by him in our instructions, we set forth on our long pilgrimage to a country where
we were to undertake a heavy task essentially different from that which had ever before fallen
to the lot of any five citizens of the United States.

On April 17, 1900, we sailed from San Francisco on the United States army transport Hancock.
We were forty-five strong. Of this goodly company only four remain in the Philippines to-day,
[458]--Mr. and Mrs. Branagan, Mrs. Worcester and myself. Singularly enough, with two exceptions,
all of the others are still alive and at work. Arthur W. Ferguson, prince of interpreters,
who was later appointed Executive Secretary, died in the service after more than six years
of extraordinarily faithful and efficient work. James A. LeRoy, my faithful, able and efficient
private secretary, contracted tuberculosis, and fell a victim to it after a long and gallant fight.

At Honolulu we met with a severe disappointment. It was of course our duty to call on Governor
Dole. We were advised that silk hats and frock coats must be donned for this visit, and it
was perishing hot. We reached the palace in a reeking perspiration and had a long wait in a
suffocating room. When Mr. Dole appeared, he was closely followed by an attendant bearing a
large and most attractive-looking bottle carefully wrapped in a napkin, and our spirits rose.
But, alas! It contained Poland water.

At Tokio we had an audience with the Emperor and were received by the Empress as well. In the
high official who had charge of the palace where these events took place, I discovered an old
University of Michigan graduate who made the occasion especially pleasant for me.

We finally reached Manila on the morning of June 3. Although the thermometer was in the nineties,
a certain frigidity pervaded the atmosphere on our arrival, which General MacArthur, the military
governor, seemed to regard in the light of an intrusion.

He had been directed to provide suitable office quarters for us. To our amazement and amusement
we found desks for five commissioners and five private secretaries placed in one little room
in the Ayuntamiento. [459] While it was possible to get through the room without scrambling
over them, it would have been equally possible to circle it, walking on them, without stepping
on the floor. In the course of our first long official interview with the General, he informed
us that we were "an injection into an otherwise normal situation."

He added that we had already mediatized the volume of work that flowed over his desk. At the
moment none of us were quite sure what he meant, but we found the word in the dictionary. How
often in the weary years that were to follow I wished that some one would materially mediatize
the task which fell to my lot! It was General MacArthur's honestly held and frankly expressed
opinion that what the Filipinos needed was "military government pinned to their backs for ten
years with bayonets." He later changed that view very radically, and when civil provincial
governments were finally established it was with his approval, and, in many instances, upon
his specific recommendation.

At the outset some effort was made to keep the public away from us. Word was passed that we
had no authority, which was true enough, as our legislative activities were not to begin until
September 1. The ninety days which intervened were very advantageously spent in gaining familiarity
with the situation, which we had no difficulty in doing. Plenty of people were already weary
of military rule and flocked to us. None of my companions had ever before set foot in the Philippines,
and although I had spent more than four years there, I still had plenty to learn.

In this connection I am reminded of an event which occurred somewhat later. While the commission
was en route from Iloilo to Catbalogan when we were establishing civil provincial governments,
General Hughes and Mr. Taft became involved in a somewhat animated discussion. The General
displayed an accurate knowledge of facts which were of such a nature that one would hardly
have expected an army officer to be familiar with them. Mr. Taft said: "General, how do you
do it? You have always been a busy man, devoted to your profession. How have you managed to
accumulate such a remarkable fund of information?" The General smiled his rare smile and replied:
"Governor, I will tell you. I always try to go to bed at night knowing a little more than I
did when I got up in the morning." It is a wise plan to follow.

On September 1 we assumed the legislative power, our first official act being to appropriate
$2,000,000 Mexican for the construction and repair of highways and bridges.

We were impressed with the fundamental necessity of promptly opening up lines of land communication
in a country which almost completely lacked them, and there were many poor people in dire need
of employment who would be relieved by the opportunity to earn an honest living which the inauguration
of road construction would afford them.

Our second act appropriated $5000 Mexican for the purpose of making a survey to ascertain the
most advantageous route for a railroad into the mountains of Benguet, where we wished to establish
a much-needed health resort for the people of the archipelago. This measure was of basic importance.
We had stipulated before leaving Washington that no political appointees should be forced upon
us under any circumstances. The members of the second commission, like their predecessors of
the first, were firm in the belief that national politics should, if possible, be kept out
of the administration of Philippine affairs, and we endeavoured to insure this result.

Our tenth act appropriated $1500 Mexican to be paid to the widow of Salvador Reyes, vice-president
of Santa Cruz in Laguna Province, assassinated because of his loyalty to the established government.

Our fifteenth act increased the monthly salaries of Filipino public school teachers in Manila.

Our sixteenth and seventeenth acts reorganized the Forestry Bureau and the Mining Bureau.

On October 15 we appropriated $1,000,000 United States currency, for improving the port of
Manila, where there was urgent need of protection for shipping during the typhoon season.

On December 12 we passed an act authorizing the establishment of local police in cities and
towns in the Philippine Islands and appropriating $150,000 United States currency for their
maintenance.

Two days later we passed a much-needed act regulating the sale of intoxicating liquors within
the city of Manila and its attached barrios.

On December 21, we appropriated $75,000 United States currency for the construction of the
Benguet Road, little dreaming how much time would elapse and how many more dollars would be
appropriated, before a vehicle passed over it.

It will be sufficiently evident that I cannot here give an account of the several acts which
we passed when I say that they number four hundred forty-nine during the first year. We created
the administrative bureaus of a well-organized government, established civil rule in numerous
municipalities and provinces, provided for the necessary expenses of government, organized
courts and reformed the judiciary. So important were the results following the establishment
of the Civil Service Act and the act providing for the organization of courts for the Philippine
Islands that I have devoted a chapter to each.

Although there were no limits on our power to enact legislation other than those imposed by
our instructions hereinbefore referred to, nothing was further from our desire than to exercise
too arbitrarily the authority conferred upon us.

Taylor has correctly described our method of procedure in the following words:--

"On September 1, 1900, the Commission began its legislative and executive duties. In performing
them it adopted the policy of passing no laws, except in cases of emergency, without publishing
them in the daily press, nor until after they had passed a second reading and the public had
been given an opportunity to come before the Commission and suggest objections or amendments
to the bills. Before enacting them they were submitted to the military governor for his consideration
and comment." [460]

The other especially important events of our first legislative year were the establishment
of civil rule in the municipalities as well as in thirty-eight provinces and the substitution
of the military central government by the gradual creation of bureaus and the ultimate appointment
of a civil governor and of five heads of executive departments.

On November 23, 1900, we passed an act providing for the establishment of a civil government
in the province of Benguet, and thus it happened that a province practically all of whose inhabitants
were members of a non-Christian tribe was the first to enjoy the benefits of civil rule. This
action grew out of investigations by General Wright and myself made when visiting Baguio during
the latter part of July, which led us to the conclusion that civil government could be established
in Benguet at any time and should be established as soon as possible. In view of the rather
primitive state of civilization of the people for whom we were legislating, a special act adapted
to local conditions was passed providing for a provincial government and fixing a form of government
for the several settlements.

On January 31, 1901, we passed an act for the organization of municipal governments in the
Philippine Islands which, with various amendments, is still in effect and has been made applicable
to all municipal corporations of the Philippines inhabited chiefly by Filipinos, except the
city of Manila, the city of Baguio and a few small settlements in the so-called special government
provinces. [461]

On February 6, 1901, we passed a general act for the organization of provincial governments
in the Philippine Islands. A special act was required to make it applicable to any given province.

Having thus prepared for the serious work of establishing civil government throughout the archipelago
so fast and so far as conditions might seem to justify, we determined to visit the several
provinces and to familiarize ourselves with conditions on the ground in each case before taking
action. We invariably sought the opinion of the military authorities as to the fitness of the
provinces under consideration for civil rule, and never established it except with their approval.
Indeed, in several cases we yielded to their judgment and organized provinces which we ourselves
thought might better wait for a time.

Our first trip was to the northward along the line of the Manila-Dagupan railway, and in the
course of it we organized the provinces of Bulaean, Pampanga, Tarlac and Pangasinán.

On the 2d of March we crossed Manila Bay to Bataan and established a civil provincial government
there.

The first provincial officers were necessarily appointed, not elected. I well remember the
consternation which Mr. Taft created on this trip, when in announcing the appointment of a
man of strong character who was much disliked by some of the people present, he said that if
the appointee did not behave well his official head would be promptly removed. Surprise showed
on almost every face in the audience. They had become sufficiently accustomed to the idea of
being beheaded or otherwise sent out of the world by their own people, but had been led to
believe that the Americans were a humane nation, and it took Mr. Taft at least five minutes
to explain his joke.

During the second week in March the commission transferred its officers bodily to the United
States Army Transport Sumner and started on a long journey in the course of which it visited
and established provincial governments in eighteen provinces, [462] returning to Manila on
the 3d of May.

This trip was most interesting but dreadfully wearing. Everywhere we were overwhelmed by the
hospitality of our Filipino friends. We arrived at some new place nearly every morning, and
the programme in each was much the same. After an early breakfast we hurried ashore, drove
or walked about for a short time to see what the town was like, and then attended a popular
meeting in its largest building, where we held long and frank converse with the people on local
conditions, giving them every opportunity to air their views, with the result that the local
orators, of whom there were usually more than a sufficiency, had an opportunity to bring their
heavy guns into action. Then followed a recess in the course of which we partook of a very
elaborate lunch, and when possible conferred privately with influential men, often learning
things which they did not care to tell us in public. Then came another open meeting at which
the actual organization of the province was effected and the officials were appointed and sworn
in. After this there was a long formal dinner, with the endless courses which characterize
such functions in the Philippines, and then came a ball which lasted till the wee small hours.
When at last we got on board, tired out, our steamer sailed, and often brought us to some new
place by sunrise.

In several instances we did not pass the act organizing a given province at the time of our
visit, but for one reason or another postponed action until a later date. We visited a number
of places like Joló, Basilan, Zamboanga, Cotabato, Davao and Samar, where we had no intention
of establishing civil government, in order to observe local conditions.

We touched at Marinduque on our trip south, and found that nothing could then be done there,
but the better element were anxious for a change, and we promised them that if they would bring
about certain specified results before our return we would give them a provincial government.
They undertook to do so, and kept their word. Needless to say we also kept ours.

We had grave doubts as to the advisability of establishing civil governments in Cebú, Bohol
and Batangas. In the first of these places the people were sullen and ugly. In the second there
was a marked disinclination on the part of leading citizens to accept public office. There
had been a little scattering rifle fire on the outskirts of the capital of the third very shortly
before our arrival there, but the organization of all these provinces was recommended by the
military authorities, and we decided to try an experiment which could do little harm, as we
could return any one of them to military control in short order should such a course seem necessary.

An effort has been made to make it appear that in organizing Cebú, Bohol and Batangas, we acted
prematurely and upon our own initiative, thus complicating the situation for the military authorities.
I will let Blount voice this complaint. He says in part:--

"In his report for 1901 Governor Taft says that the four principal provinces, including Batangas,
which gave trouble shortly after the civil government was set up in that year, and had to be
returned to military control, were organized under civil rule 'on the recommendation' of the
then commanding general (MacArthur). It certainly seems unlikely that the haste to change from
military rule to civil rule came on the motion of the military. If the Commission ever got,
in writing, from General MacArthur, a 'recommendation' that any provinces be placed under civil
rule while still in insurrection, the text of the writing will show a mere soldierly acquiescence
in the will of Mr. McKinley, the commander-in-chief. Parol [463] contemporaneous evidence will
show that General MacArthur told them, substantially, that they were 'riding for a fall.' In
fact, whenever an insurrection would break out in a province after Governor Taft's inauguration
as governor, the whole attitude of the army in the Philippines, from the commanding general
down was 'I told you so.' They did not say this where Governor Taft could hear it, but it was
common knowledge that they were much addicted to damning 'politics' as the cause of all the
trouble." [464]

Prophecy is always dangerous and when unnecessary seems rather inexcusable. I submit the essential
portions of the record to show exactly what we did get from General MacArthur, and add the
suggestion that it was really hardly essential that he should make his recommendations in writing,
as he did, for the reason that he was a gentleman and would not have repudiated a verbal recommendation
once made.

On February 5, 1901, Governor Taft wrote General MacArthur a letter closingwith the following
paragraph:--

"As already communicated to you the purpose of the Commission is to make a Southern trip on
the 23rd of February, or as soon thereafter as practicable, with the idea of arranging for
provincial governments there, and I am directed by the Commission to request your opinion as
to the provinces in which provincial governments may be safely established. It is understood
that Panay, Romblon, Tayabas, and possibly one or two of the Camarines are ready for this.
What has been said with reference to the Northern provinces applies to these, but we shall
communicate with you further as to the Southern provinces when we have been advised as to the
possibility of securing a steamer."

On February 9, General MacArthur gave the following instructions to the Commanding General,
Department of the Visayas:--

"The Military Governor desires that you report to this office at the earliest date practicable
the provinces in your department that may be considered ready for the establishment of civil
governments therein and in this connection directs me to say that it should not be considered
as necessary that complete pacification has been brought about in a province before reporting
it as ready for such government; that the provincial civil governments to be established will
doubtless prove useful agents in the further work of pacification."

On February 27, that officer reported that in his opinion Iloilo, Capiz, Oriental Negros and
Occidental Negros were ready; that Antique might be in a few days, and that Cebú, Bohol and
Leyte were not. These facts were reported to Governor Taft by General MacArthur on March 4,
and on the same day Lieutenant-Colonel Crowder wrote to the commanding general of the Visayas:--

"The Military Governor directs me to say that he regards the initiation of provincial civil
government as an aid in the work of pacification, in which view it is not necessary that a
province should be completely pacified as a condition to the initiation of such government.
He has expressed to the Commission the opinion that you may be able, upon their arrival at
Iloilo, to submit a supplementary list of provinces in which it would be advisable to establish
at once these governments."

Meanwhile General MacArthur wrote on February 13, to Governor Taft:--

"In partial reply to your letter of the 5th instant I have the honor to inform you that the
Commanding General, Department of Southern Luzon, reports but one province, Tayabas, as ready
at the present time for civil government. I add the provinces of Laguna, Batangas and Cavite,
believing that the institution of civil government in all these provinces will be in assistance
of the military authorities in the work of pacification."

General MacArthur's communications seem to me to show something more than "a mere soldierly
acquiescence in the will of Mr. McKinley," especially as the President had no knowledge of
these provinces, and never made any recommendation whatsoever relative to the establishment
of civil government there.

Similarly, in establishing civil government in Cebu and Bohol, the commission acted on the
specific recommendation of the military, and rather against its own judgment. There seemed
no very good reason for refusing to try civil government, if the commanding general wanted
it tried, and when it failed, as it promptly did, in Cebu, Bohol and Batangas, these provinces
were immediately returned to the full control of the military, and left there until conditions
became satisfactory.

Having escaped the perils of the deep, and the much graver perils of the dinner table, during
our southern trip, we returned to Manila, wearier, wiser and sadder men than when we started,
for we had learned much of the superstitions, the ignorance and the obsessions which prevailed
among the Filipinos, and we knew that many of the men who from love of country had accepted
office under us had done so at the peril of their lives. We had all had an excellent opportunity
to come to know the Filipinos. Their dignity of bearing, their courtesy, their friendly hospitality,
their love of imposing functions, and of fiestas and display, their childishness and irresponsibility
in many matters, their passion for gambling, for litigation and for political intrigue, even
the loves and the hatreds of some of them, had been spread before us like an open book. It
is a fact that except for the inhabitants of Cebu, Bohol and Batangas, the people wanted what
we had to give them and were grateful for it. Never before had they had their day in court,
and they appreciated it.

The establishment of civil government throughout so large a proportion of the provinces in
the islands would have been impossible at this time had it not been for the helpful activities
of the Federal Party organized on December 23, 1900, by many of the best and most influential
Filipinos in the archipelago for the purpose of aiding in the establishment of peace and order.
Its members were tireless in their activities. They succeeded in persuading many Insurgent
leaders to lay down their arms, so that a normal condition could be restored in territory which
the latter had previously harried. They convinced many of the common people of the true purposes
of the American government, and in numerous other ways rendered invaluable services.

The officers and many of the members and agents of this party were promptly sentenced to death
by Aguinaldo, and many of them were assassinated; [465] but the party persisted in its efforts
until success was attained.

During June of 1901 Professor Moses and I made a horseback trip through Pangasinán, La Union,
Benguet, Lepanto and Ilocos Sur, accompanied by our private secretaries. Professor Moses was
in wretched health as the result of overwork and confinement, and needed out-of-door exercise.

I had been intrusted with the drafting of legislation for the government of the non-Christian
tribes, and wanted to learn as much about them as possible, so that I could act intelligently.

We started from Dagupan mounted on horses kindly furnished us by the army, and escorted by
four mounted infantrymen. None of us had ridden for years, and army officers were offering
wagers that we would not get as far as Baguio. At Mangaldan a cavalry outfit replaced our mounted
infantrymen, and while the members of our new escort were resting under the shade of a tree
in the cemetery, I heard them voicing joyful anticipations of the easy time they were to have
travelling with tenderfeet. I made up ray mind to give them some healthful exercise on the trip.

Having first visited the work at the lower end of the Benguet Road and then travelled across
country in a driving storm over wretched trails, we reached Bauang, our point of departure
for the interior. Here I called the sergeant in charge and asked him where were the extra shoes
for our horses. In some confusion he confessed that he had brought none, whereupon I read him
a homily on the duties of a cavalryman, and sent the whole outfit to San Fernando to get the
horses reshod and provided with extra shoes for the trip.

We arrived at Baguio in a howling typhoon. When we emerged from the hills into the open, and
our horses got the full sweep of the storm, they at first refused to face it. We forced them
into it, however, and a few moments later had found refuge in the house of Mr. Otto Scheerer,
a hospitable German. The cavalrymen and the horses got in under the building. It gave me great
joy to hear through the floor the voice of the sergeant remarking, with much emphasis of the
sort best represented in print by dashes, that if he had known the sort of a trip he was starting
on he would have been on sick report the morning of his departure.

We waited in vain three days for the storm to end and then rode on. Mr. Scheerer, who accompanied
us, had sent ahead to arrange for lunch at the house of a rich Igorot named Acop, but when
we arrived at this man's place, soaked, cold, and hungry, we found it shut up. He had not received
the message and was away from home. Investigation showed that our only resource in the commissary
line were some wads of sticky, unsalted, boiled rice which our Igorot carriers had inside their
hats, in contact with their frowsy hair. We bolted as much of this as the Igorots could spare,
killing its rather high flavour with cayenne peppers picked beside the trail, and continued
our journey. In descending a steep hill my horse stumbled and while attempting to recover himself
drove a sharp stone into his hoof and turned a complete somersault, throwing me over his head
on to the rocks. When I got him up he was dead lame, and I walked the rest of the way to Ambuklao,
where we arrived just at sunset.

This once prosperous little Igorot hamlet had been burned by the Spaniards, for no apparent
reason, during their flight from the province in 1906, and we found only two houses standing.
They were naturally crowded. I was so dead with fatigue that I threw my saddle on the ground,
and using it as a pillow, lay down in a couple of inches of water and fell sound asleep. Later
the Igorots vacated one of the houses, and placed it at our disposal. I spent the greater part
of the night in a contest with an old Igorot woman, who for the commendable purpose of keeping
us warm tended a smoky pitch-pine fire, and shut the door, which afforded our only means of
ventilation, every time I dropped asleep. Awakened by the stifling smoke I would open it again,
but as soon as I dozed she would shut it. I finally solved the problem by lying down with my
head sticking out of the door.

The next day was bright and clear. We rested until noon, drying out our belongings meanwhile,
and then continued our journey, visiting the Igorot settlements on the Agno River and those
in southern Lepanto and finally reaching Cervantes, the capital of that sub-province. The Igorots
of Benguet and Lepanto received us with the utmost friendliness, and when not in danger of
breaking our necks by falling over the edges of the wretched trails, we greatly enjoyed our trip.

At Cervantes we were met by a delegation of Bontoc Igorots, who begged us to visit their country,
and we were just preparing to do so when we received a telegram recalling us to Manila to be
present at the inauguration of Mr. Taft as civil governor. During our absence the commission
had established provincial governments in Rizal, Cavite and Nueva Ecija. Mr. Taft was inaugurated
on July 4, 1901. Thenceforth he exercised control over the provinces where civil government
had been established, while the military governor continued in charge of each of the remaining
provinces until it was duly organized and transferred to civil control.

In August, 1901, the commission sailed on a tour of the remaining northern provinces, visiting
La Union, Ilocos Sur, Abra, Ilocos Norte, Cagayan, Isabela and Zambales in the order named,
and establishing a government in each. On the trip to Abra those members of the eommission
not previously accustomed to roughing it in the islands were given a novel experience, for
we went up the Abra River on bamboo rafts. However, a veritable ship of state had been prepared
for Governor Taft, and no one suffered any great discomfort.

At Vigan, the capital of Ilocos, we narrowly escaped drowning in the surf when returning to
our steamer. For a time our good viray [466] with some twenty oarsmen was unable to make headway
through the rolling waves. It broached to, nearly filled with water, and struck the bottom
heavily several times. Some of the men quit rowing and began to pray, whereupon General J.
F. Bell, who was sitting in the stern, rose to his feet, and shouted at them until they became
more afraid of him than of the sea, and pulled for dear life until we were out of danger. Upon
arrival at the ship we watched with interest the progress of other boats through the surf,
and were alarmed to see the men in one madly divesting themselves of their clothing. When it
finally came alongside its occupants made flying leaps for the gangway, and we discovered that
a great hole had been knocked in its bottom, and that raincoats, ordinary coats, and trousers
had been jammed into this opening in order to keep the rapidly sinking craft afloat for a few
moments.

In the Cagayan valley we had a taste of real tropical heat. Never have I seen a man suffer
more than did Mr. Taft at Ilagan on the day when we established a provincial government for
Isabela, and the night that followed still lingers in my memory. The air was suffocating. My
bed was in a corner. I dragged it out between a window and a door and threw both wide open.
Still I could not sleep. Slipping off my pajamas, I seated myself on the broad window sill.
The heat was intolerable. I poured water over myself and resumed my seat in the window. The
water would not evaporate. I sat there until morning, as I could not endure the heat lying down.

Such conditions are unknown throughout the greater part of the archipelago, where cool sea
breezes temper the heat at all times. In the Cagayan valley an immense plain is bordered by
ranges of high mountains to the east and the west. They seem to shut off both monsoons to a
considerable extent, and there very trying heat is by no means unusual.

On September 1, 1901, the first day of the second year of actual service of the commission,
a complete central civil government was established. Commissioner Wright was appointed secretary
of commerce and police; Commissioner Ide, secretary of finance and justice; Commissioner Moses,
secretary of public instruction, and I myself secretary of the interior. The commission was
strengthened by the addition of three Filipino members: Señor Benito Legarda, Señor José R.
de Luzuriaga, and Dr. T. H. Pardo de Tavera, all of whom were men of exceptional ability and
had rendered distinguished service in the establishment of peace and order.

Except for the addition of one more Filipino on July 6, 1908, the organization of the commission
has remained unchanged up to the present time, although there have been numerous changes in
its personnel. The task which lay before it was to enact a code of laws adapted to the peculiar
conditions existing in the Philippines, and this was indeed a herculean undertaking. Its members
laboured unremittingly. Governor Taft and General Wright were towers of strength in the early
days. The rest of us did what we could, and I, for one, am very proud of the result. Certainly
no one can ever claim that the commission was not industrious. Before it finally ceased to
be the legislative body of the islands it had passed some eighteen hundred acts. Obviously,
as it is not my purpose to write an encyclopedia of law, I cannot discuss them in detail, and
must content myself with here barely mentioning a few of the more important results obtained,
leaving the more detailed discussion of some of them for later chapters.

In general, it may be said that the additional bureaus necessary for the work of the Insular
government were created, and given proper powers. Civil government was gradually extended to
the entire archipelago. [467] The criminal code was amended and supplemented by the passage
of new laws. The administration of justice was reorganized and reformed. [468] An efficient
native insular police force was organized, and an admirable state of public order brought about.
[469] The health service was extended to the provinces, and health conditions were greatly
improved throughout the islands. [470] Baguio was made accessible and became both the summer
capital and a health resort for the people of the islands. [471] The scientific work of the
government was cordinated, and efficiency and economy in its performance were insured. [472]

Primary and secondary schools were established throughout the islands, supplemented by trade
schools, and a normal school at Manila. [473] Legislation was enacted, and submitted to the
President and to Congress, covering the disposition of public lands. [474] The purchase of
extensive estates belonging to certain religious orders, and the sale of their holdings therein
to tenants, was provided for. [475] Fairly adequate legislation for the protection and development
of the forest resources of the islands was enacted. [476] Means of communication by land and
sea were greatly improved, and the development of commerce was thus stimulated. [477]

It is a noteworthy fact that all of these things were done with a per capita taxation of about
$2.24!

Another fundamentally important aid to the commercial development of the islands was afforded
by a radical reformation of the currency.

The islands under the sovereignty of Spain had their own distinct silver coinage in peso, media
peso, peseta and media peseta pieces.

In 1878 the Spanish government, hoping to check the heavy exportation of gold currency from
the Philippines, passed a law prohibiting the importation of Mexican dollars, but allowed the
Mexican dollars then in the islands to continue to circulate as legal tender.

When the American troops arrived, there were in circulation the Spanish-Philippine peso and
subsidiary silver coins; Spanish pesos of different mintings; Mexican pesos of different mintings;
Hongkong dollars, fractional silver coins from different Chinese countries, and copper coins
from nearly every country in the Orient. Although a law had been passed prohibiting the introduction
of Mexican dollars into the islands, they were being constantly smuggled in. Fluctuations in
the price of silver affected the value of the silver coins, and the money in common use was
in reality a commodity, worth on any given day what one could get for it. These conditions
affected most disastrously the business interests of the islands. Merchants were forced to
allow very wide margins in commercial transactions, because they did not know what their goods
would actually cost them in local currency upon arrival. The most important business of the
local banks was in reality that of exchange brokers and note shavers. They hammered the exchange
rate down and bought silver, then boosted the rate skyward and sold.

The American army brought in a large amount of gold, but this did not remain in circulation
long, as it was exported by the different business concerns, or hoarded.

United States silver money had a limited circulation during the early days of American occupation,
but it passed at less than its true value. An effort was made under the military administration
to keep the ratio of exchange at two to one by the purchase from the public of all United States
currency offered at that rate to the banks.

For a long time the banks refused to carry private accounts in United States currency, but
when it was offered for deposit it was changed into Mexicans with a heavy charge for the transaction,
and an account opened in Mexican currency to the credit of the depositor. If the depositor
afterward desired to get United States currency, he gave a check for it at the then existing
rate of exchange. Such conditions were intolerable, and the commission passed an act making
it an offence to refuse to accept for deposit the currency of the sovereign power, but this
did not remedy the fundamental difficulty. There came a heavy slump in the price of silver.
The Insular government lost a very large sum because of the decrease in value of its silver coin.

