I saw in a foreign journal a report of one of George Whitefield's sermons--a sermon preached
a hundred and twenty or thirty years ago. It seemed that the reporter stood to take the sermon,
and his chief idea was to caricature it, and these are some of the reportorial interlinings
of the sermon of George Whitefield. After calling him by a nickname indicative of a physical
defect in the eye, it goes on to say: "Here the preacher clasps his chin on the pulpit cushion.
Here he elevates his voice. Here he lowers his voice. Holds his arms extended. Bawls aloud.
Stands trembling. Makes a frightful face. Turns up the whites of his eyes. Clasps his hands
behind him. Clasps his arms around him, and hugs himself. Roars aloud. Holloas. Jumps. Cries.
Changes from crying. Holloas and jumps again."

One would have thought that if any man ought to have been free from persecution it was George
Whitefield, bringing great masses of the people into the kingdom of God, wearing himself out
for Christ's sake: and yet the learned Dr. Johnson called him a mountebank. Robert Hall preached
about the glories of heaven as no uninspired man ever preached about them, and it was said
when he preached about heaven his face shone like an angel's, and yet good Christian John Foster
writes of Robert Hall, saying: "Robert Hall is a mere actor, and when he talks about heaven
the smile on his face is the reflection of his own vanity." John Wesley stirred all England
with reform, and yet he was caricatured by all the small wits of his day. He was pictorialised,
history says, on the board fences of London, and everywhere he was the target for the punsters;
yet John Wesley stands to-day before all Christendom, his name mighty. I have preached a Gospel
that is not only appropriate to the home circle, but is appropriate to Wall Street, to Broadway,
to Fulton Street, to Montague Street, to Atlantic Street, to every street--not only a religion
that is good for half past ten o'clock Sunday morning, but good for half past ten o'clock any
morning. This was one of the considerations in my work as a preacher of the Gospel that extended
its usefulness. A practical religion is what we all need. In my previous work at Belleville,
N.J., and in Syracuse, I had absorbed other considerations of necessity in the business of
uniting the human character with the church character.

Although the Central Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn of which I was pastor was one of the largest
buildings in that city then, it did not represent my ideal of a church.

I learned in my village pastorates that the Church ought to be a great home circle of fathers,
mothers, brothers, and sisters. That would be a very strange home circle where the brothers
and sisters did not know each other, and where the parents were characterised by frigidity
and heartlessness. The Church must be a great family group--the pulpit the fireplace, the people
all gathered around it. I think we sometimes can tell the people to stay out by our church
architecture. People come in and find things angular and cold and stiff, and they go away never
again to come; when the church ought to be a great home circle.

I knew a minister of religion who had his fourth settlement. His first two churches became
extinct as a result of his ministry, the third church was hopelessly crippled, and the fourth
was saved simply by the fact that he departed this life. On the other hand, I have seen pastorates
which continued year after year, all the time strengthening, and I have heard of instances
where the pastoral relation continued twenty years, thirty years, forty years, and all the
time the confidence and the love were on the increase. So it was with the pastorate of old
Dr. Spencer, so it was with the pastorate of old Dr. Gardiner Spring, so it was with the pastorate
of a great many of those old ministers of Jesus Christ, of whom the world was not worthy.

I saw an opportunity to establish in Brooklyn just such a church as I had in my mind's eye--a
Tabernacle, where all the people who wanted to hear the Gospel preached could come in and be
comfortable. I projected, designed, and successfully established the Brooklyn Tabernacle within
a little over a year after preaching my first sermon in Brooklyn. The church seated 3,500 people,
and yet we were compelled to use the old church to take care of all our active Christian work
besides.

The first Brooklyn Tabernacle was, I believe, the most buoyant expression of my work that I
ever enjoyed. It drew upon all my energies and resources, and as the sacred walls grew up towards
the skies, I prayed God that I might have the strength and spiritual energy to grow with it.

Prayer always meets the emergency, no matter how difficult it may be.

That was the substantial backing of the first Brooklyn Tabernacle--prayer. Prayer furnished
the means as well as the faith that was behind them. I was merely the promoter, the agent,
of a company organised in Heaven to perpetuate the Gospel of Christ. It was considered a great
thing to have done, and many were the reasons whispered by the worldly and the envious and
the orthodox, for its success. Some said it was due to magnetism.

As a cord or rope can bind bodies together, there may be an invisible cord binding souls. A
magnetic man throws it over others as a hunter throws a lasso. Some men are surcharged with
this influence, and have employed it for patriotism and Christianity and elevated purposes.

It is always a surprise to a great majority of people how churches are built, how money for
which the world has so many other uses can be obtained to build churches. There are names of
men and women whom I have only to mention and they suggest at once not only great wealth, but
religion, generosity, philanthropy, such as Amos Laurence, James Lennox, Peter Cooper, William
E. Dodge, Miss Wolfe, Mrs. William Astor. A good moral character can be accompanied by affluent
circumstances.

In the '70's and '80's in Brooklyn and in New York there were merchants who had prospered,
but by Christian methods--merchants who took their religion into everyday life. I became accustomed,
Sabbath after Sabbath, to stand before an audience of bargain-makers. Men in all occupations--yet
the vast majority of them, I am very well aware, were engaged from Monday morning to Saturday
night in the store. In many of the families of my congregations across the breakfast table
and the tea table were discussed questions of loss and gain. "What is the value of this? What
is the value of that?" They would not think of giving something of greater value for that which
is of lesser value. They would not think of selling that which cost ten dollars for five dollars.
If they had a property that was worth $15,000, they would not sell it for $4,000. All were
intelligent in matters of bargain-making.

But these were not the sort of men who made generous investments for God's House. There was
one that sort, however, among my earliest remembrances, Arthur Tappen. There were many differences
of opinion about his politics, but no one who ever knew Arthur Tappen, and knew him well, doubted
his being an earnest Christian. Arthur Tappen was derided in his day because he established
that system by which we come to find out the commercial standing of business men. He started
that entire system, was derided for it then; I knew him well, in moral character A1. Monday
mornings he invited to a room in the top of his storehouse in New York the clerks of his establishment.
He would ask them about their worldly interests and their spiritual interests, then giving
out a hymn and leading in prayer he would give them a few words of good advice, asking them
what church they attended on the Sabbath, what the text was, whether they had any especial
troubles of their own.

Arthur Tappen, I have never heard his eulogy pronounced. I pronounce it now. There were other
merchants just as good--William E. Dodge in the iron business, Moses H. Grinnell in the shipping
business, Peter Cooper in the glue business, and scores of men just as good as they were.

I began my work of enlarging and improving the Brooklyn Church almost the week following my
installation. My first vacation, a month, began on June 25, 1869, the trustees of the church
having signified and ordered repairs, alterations and improvements at a meeting held that day,
and further suspending Sabbath services for four weeks. I spent part of my vacation at East
Hampton, L.I., going from there for two or three short lecturing trips. I find that I can never
rest over two weeks. More than that wearies me. Of all the places I have ever known East Hampton
is the best place for quiet and recuperation.

I became acquainted with it through my brother-in-law, Rev. S.L. Mershon. His first pastorate
was at the Presbyterian Church in East Hampton, where, as a young man, I preached some of my
first sermons. East Hampton is always home to me. When a boy in grammar-school and college
I used to visit my brother-in-law and his wife, my sister Mary. Later in life I established
a summer home there myself. I particularly recall one incident of this month's vacation that
has affected my whole life. One day while resting at Sharon Springs, New York, walking in the
Park of that place, I found myself asking the question: "I wonder if there is any special mission
for me to execute in this world? If there is, may God show it to me!"

There soon came upon me a great desire to preach the Gospel through the secular printing-press.
I realised that the vast majority of people, even in Christian lands, never enter a church,
and that it would be an opportunity of usefulness infinite if that door of publication were
opened. And so I recorded that prayer in a blank book, and offered the prayer day in and day
out until the answer came, though in a way different from that which I had expected, for it
came through the misrepresentation and persecution of enemies; and I have to record it for
the encouragement of all ministers of the Gospel who are misrepresented, that if the misrepresentation
be virulent enough and bitter enough and continuous enough, there is nothing that so widens
one's field of usefulness as hostile attack, if you are really doing the Lord's work. The bigger
the lie told about me the bigger the demand to see and hear what I really was doing. From one
stage of sermonic publication to another the work has gone on, until week by week, and for
about twenty-three years, I have had the world for my audience as no man ever had. The syndicates
inform me that my sermons go now to about twenty-five millions of people in all lands. I mention
this not in vain boast, but as a testimony to the fact that God answers prayer. Would God I
had better occupied the field and been more consecrated to the work!

The following summer, or rather early spring, I requested an extension of my vacation time,
in order to carry out a plan to visit the "Old World." As the trustees of the church considered
that the trip might be of value to the church as well as to myself, I was given "leave of absence
from pastoral duties" for three months' duty from June 18, 1870. All that I could do had been
done in the plans in constructing the new Tabernacle. I could do nothing by staying at home.

I have crossed the Atlantic so often that the recollections of this first trip to Europe are,
at this writing, merely general. I think the most terrific impression I received was my first
sight of the ocean the morning after we sailed, the most instructive were the ruins of church
and abbey and palaces. I walked up and down the stairs of Holyrood Palace, once upon a time
considered one of the wonders of the world, and I marvelled that so little was left of such
a wonderful place. Ruins should be rebuilt.

The most spiritual impression I received was from the music of church organs in the old world.

I stopped one nightfall at Freyburg, Switzerland, to hear the organ of world-wide celebrity
in that place. I went into the cathedral at nightfall. All the accessories were favourable.
There was only one light in all the cathedral, and that a faint taper on the altar. I looked
up into the venerable arches and saw the shadows of centuries; and when the organ awoke the
cathedral awoke, and all the arches seemed to lift and quiver as the music came under them.
That instrument did not seem to be made out of wood and metal, but out of human hearts, so
wonderfully did it pulsate with every emotion; now laughing like a child, now sobbing like
a tempest. At one moment the music would die away until you could hear the cricket chirp outside
the wall, and then it would roll up until it seemed as if the surge of the sea and the crash
of an avalanche had struck the organ-pipes at the same moment. At one time that night it seemed
as if a squadron of saddened spirits going up from earth had met a squadron of descending angels
whose glory beat back the woe.

In Edinburgh I met Dr. John Brown, author of the celebrated "Rab and his Friends." That one
treatise gave him immortality and fame, and yet he was taken at his own request to the insane
asylum and died insane.

"What are you writing now, Dr. Brown?" I said to him in his study in Edinburgh.

"Oh, nothing," he replied, "I never could write. I shall never try again."

I saw on his face and heard in his voice that melancholy that so often unhorsed him.

I went to Paris for the first time in this summer of 1870. It was during the Franco-German
war. I stood studying the exquisite sculpturing of the gate of the Tuileries. Lost in admiration
of the wonderful art of that gate I knew not that I was exciting suspicion. Lowering my eyes
to the crowds of people I found myself being closely inspected by government officials, who
from my complexion judged me to be a German, and that for some belligerent purpose I might
be examining the gates of the palace. My explanations in very poor French did not satisfy them,
and they followed me long distances until I reached my hotel, and were not satisfied until
from my landlord they found that I was only an inoffensive American. Inoffensive Americans
were quite as welcome in Europe in 1870 as they are now. I was not curious of the signs I found
anywhere about me of aristocratic grandeur, of the deference paid to lineage and ancient family
name. I know in America some people look back on the family line, and they are proud to see
that they are descended from the Puritans or the Huguenots, and they rejoice in that as though
their ancestors had accomplished a great thing to repudiate a Catholic aristocracy.

I look back on my family line, and I see there such a mingling and mixture of the blood of
all nationalities that I feel akin to all the world. I returned from my first visit to Europe
more thankful than ever for the mercy of having been born in America. The trip did me immeasurable
good. It strengthened my faith in the breadth and simplicity of a broadminded religion. We
must take care how we extend our invitation to the Church, that it be understandable to everyone.
People don't want the scientific study of religion.

On Sunday morning, September 25, 1870, the new Tabernacle erected on Schemerhorn Street was
dedicated to the worship of Almighty God. It was to my mind a common-sense church, as I had
planned it to be. In many of our churches we want more light, more room, more ventilation,
more comfort. Vast sums of money are expended on ecclesiastical structures, and men sit down
in them, and you ask a man how he likes the church: he says, "I like it very well, but I can't
hear." The voice of the preacher dashes against the pillars. Men sit down under the shadows
of the Gothic arches and shiver, and feel they must be getting religion, or something else,
they feel so uncomfortable.

We want more common sense in the rearing of churches. There is no excuse for lack of light
when the heavens are full of it, no excuse for lack of fresh air when the world swims in it.
It ought to be an expression, not only of our spiritual happiness, but of our physical comfort,
when we say: "How amiable are Thy tabernacles, O Lord God of Hosts! A day in Thy courts is
better than a thousand."

My dedication sermon was from Luke xiv. 23, "And the Lord said unto the servants, go out into
the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in that my house may be filled." The Rev.
T.G. Butter, D.D., offered the dedicatory prayer. Other clergymen, whose names I do not recall,
were present and assisted at the services. The congregation in attendance was very large, and
at the close of the services a subscription and collection were taken up amounting to $13,000,
towards defraying the expenses and cost of the church.

In less than a year later the congregation had grown so large and the attendance of strangers
so pressing that the new church was enlarged again, and on September 10, 1871, the Tabernacle
was rededicated with impressive services. The sermon was preached by my friend the Rev. Stephen
H. Tyng, D.D. He was a great worker, and suffered, as many of us in the pulpit do, from insomnia.
He was the consecrated champion of everything good, a constant sufferer from the lash of active
work. He often told me that the only encouragement he had to think he would sleep at night
was the fact that he had not slept the night before. Insomnia may be only a big word for those
who do not understand its effect. It has stimulated intellectuality, and exhausted it. One
of the greatest English clergymen had a gas jet on each side of his bed, so that he might read
at nights when he could not sleep. Horace Greeley told me he had not had a sound sleep in fifteen
years. Charles Dickens understood London by night better than any other writer, because not
being able to sleep he spent that time in exploring the city.

I preached at the evening service from the text in Luke xvi. 5: "How much owest thou unto my
Lord?" It was a wonderful day for us all. Enough money was taken in by collections and subscriptions
at the morning and evening services to pay the floating debt of the church. We received that
one day $21,000.

I quote the following resolution made at a meeting in my study the next Thursday evening of
the Session, from the records of the Tabernacle:

"In regard to the payment of the floating debt of this church and congregation, the Session
adopted the following resolution, viz.:--

"In view of the manifest instance that God has heard the supplications of this people regarding
the floating debt of the Church, and so directed their hearts as to accomplish the object,
it is therefore resolved that we set apart next Wednesday evening as a special season of religious
thanksgiving to God for his great goodness to us as a Church, in granting unto us this deliverance."

I reverently and solemnly believe the new Tabernacle was built by prayer.

My congregation with great munificence provided for all my wants, and so I can speak without
any embarrassment on the subject while I denounce the niggardliness of many of the churches
of Jesus Christ, keeping some men, who are very apostles for piety and consecration, in circumstances
where they are always apologetic, and have not that courage which they would have could they
stand in the presence of people whom they knew were faithful in the discharge of their financial
duties to the Christian Church. Alas, for those men of whom the world is not worthy! In the
United States to-day the salary of ministers averages less than six hundred dollars, and when
you consider that some of the salaries are very large, see to what straits many of God's noblest
servants are this day reduced! A live church will look after all its financial interests and
be as prompt in the meeting of those obligations as any bank in any city.

My church in Brooklyn prospered because it was a soul-saving church. It has always been the
ambition of my own church that it should be a soul-saving church. Pardon for all sin! Comfort
for all trouble! Eternal life for all the dead!

Moral conditions in the cities of New York and Brooklyn were deplorably bad during the first
few years I went there to preach. There was an onslaught of bad literature and stage immorality.
For instance, there was a lady who came forth as an authoress under the assumed name of George
Sand. She smoked cigars. She dressed like a man. She wrote in style ardent and eloquent, mighty
in its gloom, terrible in its unchastity, vivid in its portraiture, damnable in its influence,
putting forth an evil which has never relaxed, but has hundreds of copyists. Yet so much worse
were many French books that came to America than anything George Sand ever wrote, that if she
were alive now she might be thought almost a reformer. What an importation of unclean theatrical
stuff was brought to our shores at that time! And yet professors of religion patronised such
things. I remember particularly the arrival of a foreign actress of base morals. She came intending
to make a tour of the States, but the remaining decency of our cities rose up and cancelled
her contracts, and drove her back from the American stage, a woman fit for neither continent.
I hope I was instrumental to some degree in her banishment. We were crude in our morals then.
I hope we are not merely civilised in them to-day. I hope we understand how to live better
than we did then.

Scarcely a year after the final dedication of our Tabernacle in 1871 it was completely burned,
just before a morning Sabbath service in December, 1872.

I remember that Sabbath morning. I was coming to the church, when I saw the smoke against the
sky. I was living in an outlying section of the city. I had been absent for three weeks, and,
as I saw that smoke, I said to my wife: "I should not wonder if that is the Tabernacle"; at
the same time, this was said in pleasantry and not in earnest. As we came on nearer where the
church stood, I said quite seriously: "I shouldn't wonder if it is the Tabernacle."

When I came within a few blocks, and I saw a good many people in distress running across the
street, I said: "It is the Tabernacle"; and when we stood together in front of the burning
house of God, it was an awfully sad time. We had stood together through all the crises of suffering,
and we must needs build a church in the very hardest of times.

To put up a structure in those days, and so large a structure and so firm a structure as we
needed, was a very great demand upon our energies. The fact that we had to make that struggle
in the worst financial period was doubly hard.

It was a merciful providence that none of the congregation was in the church at the time. It
was an appalling situation. In spite of the best efforts of the fire department, the building
was in ruins in a few hours. My congregation was in despair, but, in the face of trial, God
has always given me all but superhuman strength. In a thousand ways I had been blessed; the
Gospel I had preached could not stop then, I knew, and while my people were completely discouraged
I immediately planned for a newer, larger, more complete Tabernacle. We needed more room for
the increasing attendance, and I realised that opportunity again was mine.

