But this was different! I gazed through a nearby port and saw that the sky was entirely black,
the stars shining magnificently brilliant against their velvet background. Streamers of brilliant
sunlight from the floor ports struck across the cabin and patterned the ceiling. Looking between
my feet I saw the sun as a flaming orb with streamers of incandescence that spread in every
direction with such blinding luminosity that I could not bear the sight for more than a few
seconds. Off to what I was pleased to think of as our left side, there was a huge globe that
I quickly made out as our own earth. Eerily green it shone, and, though a considerable portion
of the surface was obscured by patches of white that I recognized as clouds, I could clearly
make out the continents of the eastern hemisphere. It was a marvelous sight and I lost several
minutes in awed contemplation of the wonder. Then I heard Hart laugh.

"Just coming out of it, Jack?" he asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

I stared at him foolishly. It had seemed to me that I was alone in this vast universe, and
the sound of his voice startled me. "Guess I'm not fully out of it yet," I said. "Where are we?"

"Oh, about sixty thousand miles out," he replied carelessly; "and we are traveling at our maximum
speed--that is, the maximum we need for this little voyage."

"Little voyage!" I gasped. And then I looked at George and the professor and saw that they,
too, were grinning at my discomfiture. I laughed crazily, I suppose, for they all sobered at once.

Traveling through space at more than forty thousand miles an hour, it seemed that we were stationary.
Movement was now easy--too easy, in fact, for we were practically weightless. The professor
was having a time of it manipulating a pencil and a pad of paper on which he had a mass of
small figures that were absolutely meaningless to me. He was calculating and plotting our course
and, without him, we should never have reached the object we sought.

Time passed rapidly, for the wonders of the naked universe were a never-ending source of fascination.
Occasionally a series of rocket charges was fired to keep our direction and velocity, but these
were light, and the acceleration so insignificant that we were put to no discomfort whatever.
But it was necessary that we keep our straps buckled, for, in the weightless condition, even
the slightest increase or decrease in speed or change in direction was sufficient to throw
us the length of the cabin, from which painful bruises might be received.

       *       *       *       *       *

The supports to which we were strapped and which saved us from being crushed by the acceleration
and deceleration, were similar to hammocks, being hooked to the floor and ceiling of the cabin
rather than suspended horizontally in the conventional manner. This was for the reason that
the energy of the rockets was expended fore and aft, except for steering, and the forces were
therefore along the horizontal axis of the vessel. The supports were elastic and the padding
deep and soft. Being swiveled at top and bottom, they could swing around so that deceleration
as well as acceleration was relieved. For this reason the controls had been altered so that
the flexible support in which Hart was suspended could rotate about their pedestal, thus allowing
for their operation by the pilot either when accelerating or decelerating. How he could control
the muscles of his arms and hands under the extreme conditions is still a mystery to me, however,
and George agrees with me in this. We found ourselves to be utterly helpless.

My next impression of the trip is that of swinging rapidly around and finding myself facing
the rear wall of the cabin. Then the tremendous pressure once more at a burst from the forward
tubes. We had commenced deceleration. For me there were alternate periods of full and semi-consciousness
and, to this day, I can remember no more than the high spots of that historical expedition.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then we were free to move once more, and I turned to face the instrument board. Our relative
velocity had become practically zero; that is, we were traveling through space at about the
same speed and in the same direction as the earth. The professor and Hart were consulting a
pencil chart and excitedly looking first through the forward ports and then into the screen
of the periscope.

"This is the approximate location," averred the professor.

"But they are not here," replied Hart.

George and I peered in all directions and could see nothing excepting the marvels of the universe
we had been viewing. The moon now seemed very close and its craters and so-called seas were
as plainly visible as in a four-inch telescope on earth. But we saw nothing of the enemy.

The earth was a huge ball still, but much smaller than when I had first observed it from the
heavens. The sun's corona--the flaming streamers which the professor declared extended as much
as five million miles into space--was partly hidden behind the rim of the earth and the effect
was blinding. A thin crescent of brilliant light marked the rim of our planet and the rest
was in shadow, but a shadow that was lighted awesomely in cold green by reflected light from
her satellite.

"I have it!" suddenly shouted the professor. "We are all in very nearly the same line with
reference to the sun, and the enemy is between the blazing body and ourselves. We must shift
our position, move into the shadow of the earth. We have missed our calculation by a few hundred
miles, that is all."

All! I thought. These astronomers, so accustomed to dealing in tremendous distances that must
be measured in light-years, thought nothing of an error of several hundred miles. But I suppose
it was really an inconsiderable amount, at that.

At any rate, we shifted position and looked around a bit more. We saw nothing at first. Then
Hart consulted the chronometer.

"Time is up!" he shouted.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the instant there was a flash of dazzling green light from a point not a hundred miles from
our position, a flash that was followed by a streaking pencil of the same light shooting earthward
with terrific velocity. Breathlessly we followed its length, saw it burst like a bomb and hurl
three green balls from itself which sped at equally spaced angles to form a perfect triangle.
They hovered a moment at about two thousand miles above the surface of the earth, according
to the professor, who was using the telescope at the time, and shot their deadly rays toward
our world. We were too late to prevent the renewal of hostilities!

Another and another streak of green light followed and we knew that great havoc was being wrought
back home. But these served to locate the enemy's position definitely and we immediately set
about to draw nearer. We were still somewhat on the dark side of the object, which had prevented
our seeing it. Now we swung about so that it was plainly visible. And, what a strange appearance
it presented, out here in space!

Fully fifteen miles in diameter, it was a huge doughnut, a great ring of tubing with a center-opening
that was at least eighty per cent of its maximum diameter. There it hovered, sending out those
deadly missiles in a continuous stream toward our poor world. As we approached the weird space
flier, we saw that a number of objects floated about within the great circle of its inner circumference.
The NY-18, the SF-61 and the SF-22, without doubt! The theory of Hart's was correct in every
detail.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were still at about ten miles distance from the great ring and the streaking light pencils
were speeding earthward at the rate of one a minute now. There was no time to lose. Already
there was more destruction on its way than had been previously wrought--several times over.

Hart was sighting along a tiny tube that projected into the forward partition and he maneuvered
the Pioneer until she was nose on to the great ring. He pulled a switch and there came a purring
that was entirely new. A row of huge vacuum tubes along the wall lighted to vivid brilliancy
and a throbbing vibration filled the artificial air of the cabin.

He pulled a small lever at the side of the tube and the vessel rocked to the energy that was
released from those vacuum tubes. The thin rod which had been installed at the Pioneer's nose
burst into brilliant flame--orange tinted luminescence that grew to a sphere of probably ten
feet in diameter. Then there was a heavy shock and the ball of fire left its position and,
with inconceivable velocity, sprang straight for the side of the great ring. It was a fair
hit and, when the weird missile found its mark, it simply vanished--swallowed up in the metal
walls of the monster vessel. For a moment we thought nothing was to result. Then we burst into
shouts of joy, for a great section of the ring fused into nothingness and was gone! Fully a
quarter of the circumference of the ring had disappeared into the vacuum of space. Truly, the
governments of Earth had developed some terrible weapons of their own!

We watched, breathless.

       *       *       *       *       *

The green light pencils no longer streaked their paths of death in the direction of our world,
which now seemed so remote. The great ring with the vacant space in its rim wabbled uncertainly
for a moment as though some terrific upheaval from within was tearing it asunder. Then it lurched
directly for the Pioneer. We had been observed!

But Hart was equal to the occasion and he shot the Pioneer in the direction of the earth with
such acceleration that we all were flattened into our supports with the same old violence.
Then, with equal violence, we decelerated. The ring was following so closely that it actually
rushed many hundreds of miles past us before it was brought to rest. From it there sprang one
of the light pencils, and the Pioneer was rocked as by a heavy gale when it rushed past on
its harmless way into infinity. The enemy had missed.

Meanwhile, Hart was operating another mechanism that was new to the Pioneer and again he sighted
along the tiny tube. This time there was no sound within, no ball of fire without, no visible
ray. But, when he had pressed the release of this second energy, the ring seemed to shrivel
and twist as if gripped by a giant's hand. It reeled and spun. Then, no longer in a balance
of forces, it commenced its long drop earthward.

His job finished and finished well, Hart Jones collapsed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Following his more than three days and four nights of superhuman endeavor, it seemed strange
to see Hart slumped white and still over the control pedestal. He who had energy far in excess
of that of any of the rest of us had worn himself out. Having had no rest or sleep in nearly
a hundred hours, the body that housed so wonderful a spirit simply refused to carry on. Tenderly
we stretched him on the cabin floor, the Pioneer drifting in space the while. The professor,
who was likewise something of a physician, listened to his heart, drew back his eyelids, and
pronounced him in no danger whatever.

We slapped his wrists, sprinkled his face and neck with cold water from the drinking supply,
and were soon rewarded by his return to consciousness. He smiled weakly and fell sound asleep.
No war in the universe could have wakened him then, so we lifted him to his feet--rather I
should say, we guided his practically floating body--and strapped him in George's hammock,
preparing for the homeward journey. Though dangling from the straps in a position that would
be vertical were we on earth, he slept like a baby. George took the controls in Hart's place
and the professor and I returned to our accustomed supports.

The return trip was considerably slower, as George did not wish to push the Pioneer to its
limit as had been necessary when coming out to meet the enemy, nor was he able to keep control
of the ship against a too-rapid acceleration. Consequently, the rate of acceleration was much
lower and we were not nearly as uncomfortable as on the outgoing trip. Thus, nearly ten hours
were required for the return. And Hart slept through it all.

       *       *       *       *       *

In order to make best use of the small amount of fuel still in the cylinders, George circled
the earth five times before we entered the upper limits of the atmosphere, the circles becoming
of smaller diameter at each revolution and the speed of the ship proportionately reduced. An
occasional discharge from one of the forward rocket tubes assisted materially in the deceleration,
yet, when we slipped into level five, our speed was so great that the temperature of the cabin
rose alarmingly, due to the friction of the air against the hull of the vessel. It was necessary
to use the last remaining ounce of fuel to reduce the velocity to a safe value. A long glide
to earth was then our only means of landing and, since we were over the Gulf of Mexico at the
time, we had no recourse other than landing in the State of Texas.

Passing over Galveston in level three, we found that the Humble oil fields and a great section
of the surrounding country had been the center of one of the enemy bombardments. All was blackness
and ruin for many miles between this point and Houston. At Houston Airport we landed, unheralded
but welcome.

The lower levels were once more filled with traffic, and one of the southern route transcontinental
liners had just made its stop at this point. The arrival of the Pioneer was thus witnessed
by an unusually large crowd, and, when the news was spread to the city, their numbers increased
with all the rapidity made possible by the various means of transportation from the city.

So it was that Hart Jones, after we finally succeeded in awakening him and getting him to his
feet, was hailed by a veritable multitude as the greatest hero of all time. The demonstrations
become so enthusiastic that police reserves, hastily summoned from the city, were helpless
in their attempts to keep the crowd in order.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was with greatest difficulty that Hart was finally extricated from the clutches of the mob
and conveyed to the new Rice Hotel in Houston, where it was necessary to obtain medical attention
for him immediately. He was in no condition at the time to receive the richly deserved plaudits
of the multitude, and, truth to tell, we others from the Pioneer were in much the same shape.

To me that night will always be the most terrible of nightmares. My first thought was of my
family and, when I had been assigned to a room, I immediately asked the switchboard operator
for a long-distance connection to my home in Rutherford. There was complete silence for a minute
and I jangled the hook impatiently, my head throbbing with a thousand aches and pains. Then,
to my surprise, the voice of the hotel manager greeted me.

"Mr. Makely," he said softly, and I thought there was a peculiar ring in his voice, "I think
you had better not try to get Rutherford this evening. We are sending the house physician to
your room at once and--there are orders from Washington, you know--you are to think of nothing
at the present but sleep and a long rest."

"Why--why--" I stammered, "can't you see? I must communicate with my family. They must know
of my return. I must know if they're safe and well."

"I'm sorry, sir," apologized the manager, "Government orders, you know." And he hung up.

Something in that soft voice brought to me an inkling of the truth. An icy hand gripped my
heart as I heard a knock at the door. With palsied fingers I turned the key and admitted the
professor and a kindly-faced elderly gentleman with a small black bag. One look at the professor
told me the truth. I seized his two arms in a grip that made him wince.

"Tell me! Tell me!" I demanded, "Has anything happened to my family?"

"Jack," said the professor slowly, "while we were out there watching Hart destroy the enemy
vessel, Rutherford was destroyed!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It must be that I frightened him by my answering stare, for he backed away from me in apparent
fear. I noticed that the doctor was rummaging in his bag. I know I did not speak, did not cry
out, for my tongue clove to the roof of my mouth. It seemed I must go mad. The professor still
backed away from me; then, wiry little athlete that he was, he sprang directly for my knees
in a beautiful football tackle. I remember that point clearly and how I admired his agility
at the time. I remember the glint of a small instrument in the doctor's hand. Then all was
blackness.

Eight days later, they tell me it was, I returned to painful consciousness in a hospital bed.
But let me skip the agony of mind I experienced then. Suffice it to say that, when I was able,
I set forth for Washington. Hart Jones was there and he had sent for me. But I took little
interest in the going; did not even bother to speculate as to the reason for his summons. I
had devoured the news during my convalescence and now, more than two weeks after the destruction
of the Terror, I knew the extent of the damage wrought upon our earth by those deadly green
light pencils we had seen issuing from the huge ring up there in the skies. The horror of it
all was fresh in my mind, but my own private horror overshadowed all.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was glad that Hart had been so signally honored by the World Peace Board, that he was now
the most famous and popular man in the entire world. He deserved it all and more. But what
cared I--I who had done least of all to help in his great work--that the Terror had been found
where it buried itself in the sand of the Sahara when falling to earth? What cared I that the
discoveries made in the excavating of the huge metal ring were of inestimable value to science?

It gave me passing satisfaction to note that all of Hart Jones' theories were borne out by
the discoveries; that Oradel and his minions were responsible for this terrible war; that the
planet they aligned against us was Venus and that more than a hundred thousand of the Venerians
had been carried in that weird engine of destruction which had been brought down by Hart.

It was interesting to read of the fall of that huge ring; how it was heated to incandescence
when it entered our atmosphere at such tremendous velocity; of the tidal waves of concentric
billows in the sand that led to its discovery by Egyptian Government planes. The broadcast
descriptions and the television views of the stunted and twisted Venerians whose bodies were
recovered from the partly consumed wreckage were interesting. But it all left me cold. I had
no further interest in life. That the world had escaped an overwhelming disaster was clear,
and it gave me a certain pleasure. But for me it might as well have been completely destroyed.

Nevertheless, I went to Washington. I felt somehow that I owed it to Hart Jones, the greatest
world hero since Lindbergh. I would at least listen to what he had to say.

       *       *       *       *       *

A fast plane carried me, a plane chartered by the government. To me it seemed that it crawled,
though it was a sixth-level ship, and made the trip in record time. Why I was impatient to
reach Washington I do not know, for I was absolutely disinterested in anything that might occur
there. It was merely that my nerves were on edge, I suppose, and everything annoyed me.

Hart met me at the airport and greeted me like a long-lost brother. He talked incessantly and
jumped from one subject to the other with the obvious intention of trying to get my mind off
my troubles until we reached his office in the Air Traffic building.

On his door there was the legend, "Director of Research," and, when we had entered, I observed
that the office was furnished with all the luxury that suited his new position. I dropped into
a deeply upholstered chair at the side of his mahogany desk, and, for the space of several
minutes, Hart regarded me with concern, speaking not a word.

"Jack, old man," he finally ventured. "I can't talk to you of this thing. But it makes me feel
very badly to see you take it so hard. There are many things you have to live for, old top,
and it is to talk about these that I sent for you."

"You mean work?" I asked.

"Yes. That is the best thing for us all, in any emergency or under any circumstances whatever.
Preston wants you back for one thing, and he authorized me to tell you that the job of office
manager is waiting for you at double your former salary."

       *       *       *       *       *

My eyes misted at this. Preston was a good old scout! But I could never bear it to return to
the old surroundings, even in the city. "No, Hart," I said, "I'd rather be away from New York
and from that part of the country. Associations, you know."

"I understand," he replied, "and that is just what I had hoped you would decide. Because I
have a job for you in the Air Service. A good one, too.

"You know there is much reconstruction work to be done on earth. More than forty cities and
towns have been wiped out of existence and these must be rebuilt. That will occupy the minds
and energies of thousands who have been bereaved as you have. But, in the Air Service, we have
a program that I believe will be more to your liking. The log of the Terror, in Oradel's handwriting,
was found intact, as were a number of manuscripts pertaining to plans of the Venerians.

"These misshapen creatures were quite evidently educated by Oradel to a hatred of our world.
We have reason to believe that other attacks may follow, for they were obviously intending
to migrate here in millions. And, according to records found aboard the Terror, they are of
advanced scientific accomplishment. We may expect them to construct other vessels similar to
the Terror and to come here again. We must be prepared to fight them off, to carry the war
to their own planet if necessary. My work is to organize a world fleet of space ships for this
purpose, and I'd like you to help me in this. The work will take you all over the world and
will keep you too busy to think about--things."

It was just like Hart, and I thanked him wordlessly, but from the bottom of my heart. Yes,
I would accept his generous offer. Though I was no engineer, I had a knowledge of scientific
subjects a little above the average, and I could follow instructions. By George, it was the
very thing! Suddenly I grew enthusiastic.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was the sound of voices in the outer office, and Hart's secretary entered to announce
the arrival of George Boehm and Professor Lindquist. This was great!

Chubby George, red-faced and smiling as ever, embraced me with one short arm and pounded me
on the back with his other fist in his jovial, joking manner. It was good to have friends like
these! The professor held forth his hand timidly. He was thinking of that tackle and the half-Nelson
he had used on me while the doctor slipped that needle into my arm back there in Houston.

"Don't remove your glasses, Professor," I laughed; "I'm not going to hit you. That was a swell
tackle of yours, and you did me a big service down there in the Rice Hotel."

He beamed with pleasure and gripped my hand--mightily, for such a little fellow. George was
whispering to Hart, and I could see that they were greatly excited over something.

"Jack," said Hart, when the professor and I finished talking things over, "George here wants
you to take a little trip over to Philly with him. He has something there he wants to show you."

I looked from one to the other for signs of a hoax. These two, under normal circumstances,
were always up to something. But what I saw in their expressions convinced me that I had better
go, and somehow, there rose in my breast a forlorn hope.

"All right," I agreed. "Let's go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Once more we four took off together, this time in a speedy little first-level cabin plane of
Hart's design, piloted by the irrepressible George. I was brimming with questions, but George
kept up such a running fire of small talk that I was unable to get in a single word throughout
the short trip to the Quaker City. It was quite evident that something was in the wind.

Instead of landing at the airport, George swung across the city and dropped to the roof landing
space of a large building which I recognized as the Germantown Hospital. We had no sooner landed
when I was rushed from the plane to the penthouse over the elevator shafts. We were soon on
the main floor and George went immediately to the desk at the receiving office, where he engaged
in earnest conversation with the nurse in charge.

"What are you doing--committing me?" I asked, half joking only. For, from the mysterious expression
of my friends' faces, I was not sure what to expect.

"No," laughed Hart. "George learned of the existence of a patient here who may turn out to
be a very good friend of yours."

I turned this over in my mind, which did not yet function quite normally. A friend? Why, I
had very few that could really be termed good friends outside of those that accompanied me.
It could mean but one thing. Possibly one of my children--or even my dear wife--might have
escaped somehow. I followed in a daze as a white-capped and gowned nurse led us along the corridor
and into a ward where there were dozens of high, white beds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some of the patients were swathed in bandages; some sat up in their beds, reading or just staring;
others lay inert and pale. The reek of iodoform pervaded the large room.

We stopped at the bedside of one of the staring patients, a young woman who looked unseeingly
at our party. Great heavens, it was Marie!

A physician stood at the other side of her bed, finger on her pulse. The others drew back as
I approached her side, raised her free hand to my lips and spoke to her.

"Marie, dear," I asked gently, forcing the lump from my throat as best I could, "don't you
know me? It's Jack, Honey."

The fixed stare of the great blue eyes shifted in my direction. It seemed that they looked
through and past me into some terrible realm where only horror held sway. She drew her hand
from my grasp and passed it before those staring, unnatural eyes. There was an audible gulp
from George. But the doctor smiled encouragement to me. I tried once more.

"Marie," I said, "where are Jim and Jackie?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The hand fluttered to her lap, where it lay, blue-veined and pitifully thin. The stare focussed
on me, seemed to concentrate. Then the film was gone from the eyes and she saw--she knew me!

"Oh, Jack!" she wailed, "I have been away. Don't you know where they are?"

My heart nearly stopped at this, but I sat on the edge of the bed and took her in my arms,
looking at the doctor for approval. He nodded his head brightly and beckoned to the nurse.

