Now that God's Holy Word had been translated into Greek, the one language which every man of
those days wished to learn, the message could ring through all the Gentile cities: 'A King,
a Saviour, is coming; be ready to meet Him!'

So the Scriptures went forth, north, south, east, and west, and we think they reached to that
far eastern city in which those three wise men lived who afterwards travelled to Bethlehem,
seeking the Messiah, and saying, 'Where is He that is born King of the Jews?' (Matthew ii. 2.)

The Bible had indeed taken a strong leap forward now!

For long centuries it had been like a tiny stream flowing through a dry land, and reaching
only a few people.  Now it had become as a river of truth, ever growing deeper and wider, guided
by God in all its wanderings across the earth.

The Bible was now no longer locked up in a language which was already half-forgotten.  With
this Greek translation its world-wide work had begun!

But while the Greek translation of the Hebrew Scriptures was becoming an open door through
which the people of many lands could draw nearer to God, a second witness to the truth of God's
Book was hidden away in Samaria.

For the Samaritans had their own copies of the Books of the Law, and kept them closely shut
up among their own people for hundreds of years.

It is impossible now to give the actual date when the Samaritans began to use a different copy
of the Scriptures from the Jews.  The Israelitish city of Samaria was captured by Sargon, king
of Assyria, in 722 B.C.; but although he carried away the most important inhabitants captive,
a great number of the poorer people remained on the land, and when Sargon filled the country
with new and heathen settlers, so many marriages took place between the two races that the
Children of Israel lost their old name and were known to the Jews of Judah as 'Samaritans.'

Yet the Samaritans still clung to the Jews' religion, and the separation did not probably become
complete until Nehemiah expelled all those Jews from Jerusalem who had married heathen wives.
(Nehemiah xiii. 23-30.)

Now Josephus, the Jewish historian, tells us that among these exiles was a man named Manasseh,
a grandson of the high priest, and that, indignant at being cast out, he fled to Samaria. 
Here he determined to set up a separate worship of Jehovah, and, having obtained permission
from the king of Persia to erect a Temple, he built a Holy Place on Mount Gerizim, which became
the centre of a new form of religion.

It is thought that Manasseh had carried away a copy of the Books of the Law from Jerusalem,
and by means of certain alterations in the words he made it appear that God had chosen Mount
Gerizim in Samaria for the site of His House, instead of Mount Moriah in Jerusalem.

Now at this time all the Jews still wrote in the ancient style, forming their letters as we
see them on the Moabite Stone; but not long afterwards they adopted the square letters of Hebrew
writing such as are still in use to-day.

The Samaritans, however, in their hatred of everything Jewish, refused to follow their example.
The Jews had cut them off, and they would take nothing from the Jews; they would keep to the
old style of letters; they would not allow a single word of the Books of the Prophets or the
Psalms or History Books to have a place among their sacred writings.  The Jews accepted these
Books as inspired; therefore the Samaritans rejected them.

Thus Jewish pride and Samaritan littleness raised a terrible barrier between the two nations,
which grew more hopeless every year.

Yet these hidden Samaritan documents,  falsified as they had been, have had a work to do for
God's Word within comparatively recent times.

For in the year 1616 A.D., just as some people were beginning to attack the Bible, and to declare
that they could find no evidence that the Old Testament was so ancient after all, the world
was suddenly startled to hear of a great discovery--an ancient copy of the Law had been found
in Syria.

Other copies soon afterwards came to light: the world had rediscovered the Samaritan Bible!

At Nablous, in Samaria, known in Old Testament times as Shechem, a traveller was allowed to
look at the oldest Samaritan copy of the altered books of the Law.  Its queer letter signs
are traced on parchment rolls, which are said to have been formed from the skins of rams offered
in sacrifice.  They are kept in a silver cylinder, covered with crimson satin, heavily embroidered
with gold.

But out of this discovery a new difficulty arose.  Some of the critics decided that this was
the original copy written by Moses, and therefore more correct than the Jewish Scriptures.
They would have done better to wait, and to have trusted the Bible a little more.

True, the discovery was of great importance, for these documents proved beyond all doubt that
the Book of the Law dated back to a time when the ancient form of letters were still in use,
and so they bore a strong witness to the great age of the first five Books of our Bible.

But learned scholars were soon able to prove that the oldest Samaritan copy was probably not
older than the tenth or eleventh century of our era, and that the form of the letters was so
ancient merely because the Samaritans refused to imitate the improved Jewish writing.  A hundred
years ago, for instance, books with long 's's' were printed in England; but the old form of
letter was tiresome to read, and is now entirely out of date.

Now the Samaritans had not only refused to accept the new and improved form of letters--they
had rejected as well all the fresh light and inspiration which God was continually giving to
His people through the Holy prophets.  According to the Samaritans, Moses was the only true
prophet.  Thus they cut themselves adrift from further light, and little by little the nations
had dwindled away.

Yet because so many of the Samaritans in the time of Christ were faithful to the measure of
light they had, and kept alive in their hearts the hope of a coming Messiah, God made for them
a wonderful way of escape.

Every Bible reader knows and loves that beautiful scene by the well of Sychar, in Samaria,
where the Saviour began by asking a woman for water to drink, and ended by explaining to her
some of the deepest truths of God's Kingdom.

We understand now why the woman was so surprised that a Jew should condescend to speak to her,
and why the Jews would have 'no dealings with the Samaritans.'  As we have seen, a great barrier
divided her from all ordinary Jewish teachers--she had been taught to believe in an altered Bible.

Not merely a different translation, remember, for the Bible should be the same in every language,
but a Book of the Law in which some of the words had been changed and the original meaning
destroyed. 20.)

The Saviour had not said so, but she felt sure that He, as a Jew, would certainly contradict
the old traditions of his countrymen.

But the Lord Jesus Christ had come to show the world that it was no longer a question of this
mountain or that.  Such matters had been but a shadow of the good things to come. 24.)

With these words Jesus, the Messiah, for whom both Jews and Samaritans were waiting, threw
down the barrier of ages, and united the two nations in a spiritual worship.

CHAPTER VIII

THE BIBLE IN THE DAYS OF JESUS CHRIST

Slowly but surely, as time went on, God was adding to His Book, until about four hundred years
before the birth of Jesus Christ the Old Testament Scriptures, in their present shape, were
completed.

Many questions have been asked as to how the canon of the Old Testament was formed--that is,
how and when did the Jews first begin to understand that the Books of the Old Testament were
inspired by God.

About the first five Books--the Books of the Law--there had never been any question.  From
the very earliest times those Books, so wonderfully given to the people, had been the strength
and stay of the Children of Israel.

But many books had been written in the days of the old Jewish kings, and also after the return
of the people from Babylon: some of these were very beautiful and helpful.  How were the sacred
Scriptures first divided from the other Jewish writings?

We do not know.  Some have thought that Ezra the scribe, with the assistance of a council of
elders, fixed the canon of Hebrew Scripture; others have supposed Nehemiah to have undertaken
the work; but most likely it was a gradual process, directed by God Himself, who inspired His
servants to carry out His will.

The Christian Bible is composed of two parts, the Old and the New Testament; but the Jews divided
their Scriptures--our Old Testament--into three parts, and they certainly looked upon some
books as far more sacred than others.  The 'Torah'--that is, the Law--included, as we have
seen, the first five books of the Bible. From the very earliest days the Torah was reverenced
as containing the commandments and promises of God.

The second division consisted of the 'Prophets,' these being subdivided into the 'Former Prophets'
(four volumes)--Joshua, Judges, Samuel, Kings--and the 'Latter Prophets' (three volumes)--Isaiah,
Jeremiah, Ezekiel--and the Twelve Minor Prophets (which were included in one book).

Next in order of sanctity came the third division, the 'Writings,' and these again were subdivided
into three groups: the poetical Books of the Psalms, Proverbs, and Job; the 'Rolls' or 'Readings'
(seven volumes)--Solomon's Song, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Daniel, and one
volume containing Ezra and Nehemiah; and, lastly, in a separate book, Chronicles.  Thus the
whole Scriptures were contained in twenty-four books.

Indeed, not until the Greek translation was made were the books grouped in the order in which
we have them now, and at the same time their number was increased to thirty-nine by taking
the writings of each of the prophets separately, and treating Ezra and Nehemiah as different books.

And now God, who has spoken in times past by many different ways and voices, spoke at last
to the nations by His Son, 'by whom also He made the worlds.' (Hebrews i. 2.)

Let us think for a little while of what was being done with the Scriptures in the days when
the Lord Jesus learnt to read their words at His mother's knee; words which from first to last
told of Himself.

We have seen that no people could possibly honour the actual letters of the Scripture more
highly than did the Jews.  The care they took to keep the words exactly as they had been handed
down to them was infinite; and God, who knows all things, knew that a time would come when
the pure Hebrew words of the old Bible would be eagerly sought for, and treasured by all who
truly honour His Book.

Therefore, although the eyes of the learned Jewish scribes were so blinded, that they did not
recognize their King and Saviour when He came, yet God blessed all that was true in their work,
and it is from the Hebrew copies which they made of the Books of the Old Testament, and not
from the 'Septuagint,' or Greek translation, that the Old Testament of our Bible has come to
us to-day.

Yet, sad to say, while so careful to preserve the words of the Scriptures, the Scribes and
Pharisees forgot its spirit, the very purpose for which the Bible had been given them.

A man might know by memory every letter of the Bible, but unless the Spirit of God were in
his heart, helping him to act out in his life the words he repeats with his lips, all his knowledge
of the Bible would only lie as a dead-weight upon his soul.  'The letter killeth, but the spirit
giveth life.' (2 Corinthians iii. 6.)  So wrote the Apostle Paul, who had, as we know, been
educated by the Scribes and Pharisees, and when he wrote those words he was recalling his own
experience.

Thus, as year by year the learned Jews thought more of the letters of their Bible, they saw
less of its spirit; worse still, they began to add to the teaching of the Books of the Law.

Not that they ventured to put other words between those of the Bible, or to alter it as the
Samaritans had done; but they invented long explanations of almost every verse, and declared
that these explanations must be followed as absolutely as the words of the Bible itself.

For instance, a learned Jewish teacher wrote an explanation of Moses' command about obeying
the Levites. (Deuteronomy xvii. 11.)  Moses had said that the people were to do what the Levites
told them respecting the Law of God, neither turning 'to the right hand, nor to the left.'
The Jewish teachers declared what Moses really meant was that if a teacher of the Law told
you that your left hand was your right you must believe him!

In this way, while professing to explain God's Word, the scribes and teachers were confusing
the simple people who wanted to obey this Holy Law.

The Saviour saw this, and He fearlessly rebuked the teachers of the Law, grieved beyond words
that those to whom God had entrusted His Book should make 'the Word of God of none effect through
your tradition.' (Mark vii. 13.)

His own way of using the Scriptures was very different.  From His mother He had first learned
to repeat texts from the Old Testament, and with her He had gone to the Synagogue, Sabbath
by Sabbath, to hear the Books of the Law and the Prophets read.

As He grew older He would have been sent to school and taught to read and recite the Scriptures,
and long before He began Himself to teach the people He had so absorbed the spirit of the Old
Testament that His very thoughts seem to have been given in Scripture words.

Perhaps you have wondered why the names of some of the prophets and heroes of the Old Testament
are spelt so differently when mentioned in the New--'Elias' instead of 'Elijah,' 'Noe' instead
of 'Noah,' and so on.  This is because the writers of the New Testament quoted from the Greek
translation of the Bible instead of from the Hebrew.  Names change a little, you know, when
translated into other languages.  For instance, our name of Mary becomes 'Marie' in French,
and 'Maria' in Italian, and yet it is all the while the same name.

Some people think that this, the Septuagint, or first Greek translation, was the special translation
of the Bible which the Saviour used.  Many of the quotations which He gave from the Old Testament
appear to have been from this translation, although some seem taken directly from the Hebrew,
and others again from an Aramaic version which has disappeared.

Christ Himself no doubt taught the people in the Aramaic tongue, which was a mixed language,
and came into use after the Jews' return from Babylon.  Aramaic is called 'Chaldee' in the
Book of Daniel.

But while our Saviour constantly quoted from the Old Testament, He never used its words without
definite purpose.  The Sword of the Spirit in His hands was either turned against the Evil
One, or brought directly to bear with overwhelming force on some mistaken teaching which had
blinded the people to the true meaning of the Word of God.

The direct and yet simple way in which He reached the point, and once and for all swept away
the difficulty, amazed and confounded the learned Jews.

An instance of this is found in His wonderful answer to the Sadducees, who disbelieved in the
Resurrection. 31, 32.)  His hearers, of course, had heard these words quoted from childhood,
but not till the Saviour explained their full significance--'God is not the God of the dead,
but of the living'--did they realize that in the first recorded words spoken by God to Moses
lay a proof of the Resurrection and of life after death.

Let us take a look at the first time in which Christ publicly read and explained the Scriptures.
It is the Sabbath, and the synagogue of Nazareth is full of people, serious and attentive,
for they have met together to hear the Word of God.

Now One stands up to read.  The sacred Roll is in His hand; the Roll of the Book of the prophet
Isaiah. 18, 19.)

He closes the Book and sits down.

From the dim ages of the past those words had been read; in the long, long ages to come they
will yet be read, until the World shall cease to exist, and time itself be known no more.

But never before and never again could there be so heart-searching or sacred a reading as this,
when the Son of God read from His Father's Book in the simple village meeting in Galilee.

And yet His listeners did not understand the reading.  Even after His explanation of the words
they fell upon deaf ears and raised only anger and surprise.  It was then that the first attempt
was made to destroy Him.  (Verse 29.)

To His own Apostles, enlightened as they were, the message of the Old Testament was sealed
until after the Saviour's Resurrection, when He 'opened their understanding, that they might
understand the Scriptures.' (Luke xxiv. 45.)  Then only did the wonderful truth dawn upon them
that in coming to earth, in suffering, rising from the dead, and ascending to Heaven, their
Master had not destroyed the Scriptures, but had fulfilled them.  (Matthew v. 17.)

CHAPTER IX

THE DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM

God had given to His people a Book foretelling the coming of the Christ--or Messiah, as the
word is written in Hebrew--so that they might be prepared and ready for His appearance.  Yet
when He came they did not receive Him.  They were looking for an earthly king, and the beautiful
words spoken by the ancient prophets had no meaning to them.

When Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem, the Jews were under the iron rule of the Roman Empire,
of which they formed a part, for although the Jewish family of the Herods reigned over Judea,
they only held their throne under the Roman Emperor.  This the Jews could not endure.  They
longed to be a free and independent nation once again.

'When our Messiah comes He will be a great warrior,' they said.  'He will utterly destroy all
our enemies.  He will make Jerusalem the greatest and richest city in the whole earth; all
other nations will bow down before us, acknowledging that the Jews alone are the chosen people
of God.'

Thus they were expecting a Messiah who would begin his work by killing all the Roman soldiers
in Palestine.

Had Jesus of Nazareth been willing to become their earthly king and to lead the nation against
the Romans, the Jews would probably have followed Him to a man. (John vi. 15.)  But He saw
that, even from a human standpoint, the nation could not be helped in this way, and that the
Jews would only rebel against the Romans to their destruction.

Instead of widening the breach between them and their conquerors, the Saviour sought to heal
it.  He called out the faith and gratitude of the Roman centurion, and His answer to the Jewish
leaders, 'Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's (Mark xii. 17) showed them the right
attitude in which to regard the Roman rule.

When, therefore, He was brought at last before Pilate, the Roman Government had no quarrel
with Him.  'Thine own nation ... hath delivered Thee unto me,' said Pilate who would have released
his prisoner, had not the Jews prevented it.

'If thou let this Man go, thou art not Caesar's friend,' they cried, thus compelling Pilate,
at the risk of being reported as a traitor to his Emperor, to crucify Jesus of Nazareth, and
to free Barabbas.

But in choosing the rebel, Barabbas (Mark xv. 7) as their hero, the nation started on their
downward road, as the story of the forty years which followed the Saviour's crucifixion clearly
shows.

For the Jews were determined at all costs to throw off the Roman yoke, and the history of those
years is one long list of terrible risings and massacres, while cities were ruined, villages
wrapped in flames, and men, women and children perished with hunger.

Yet the keener the suffering, the more desperate the Jews became. Their whole souls were possessed
with a wild and mad passion for revenge.

The Saviour had warned His hearers most earnestly against following false Christs.  'Then if
any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not.' (Matthew xxiv. 23.)

Yet no sooner did a daring rebel or murderer gather a band of robbers around him, and begin
to kill and plunder, than multitudes of Jews cried, 'The Christ, or Messiah has come; now we
shall have vengeance on our enemies!'

They were fighting against God now, and against the Book which He had given them.  All peace-loving
people who could possibly do so left the country.

At last, in 66 A.D., all the Jews in Jerusalem rose in a body against their Roman governors.
They surrounded the great tower of Antonia where the Roman soldiers were quartered, and cried
out to the garrison within that their lives should be spared if they would lay down their weapons.
The Roman soldiers hesitated, but the Jews promised most faithfully to keep their word.

The Romans believed them, and opened their gates; but no sooner were they in the power of the
Jewish mob than they were fallen upon and murdered to the last man!

As they died the Roman soldiers, whom not even death could terrify, lifted up their hands to
Heaven, as though calling upon God to witness that the Jews had broken their solemn oath.

The Roman Emperor could not overlook such rebellion and treachery, and he sent a great army
against Jerusalem.  The Jews shut the gates of their city, and so began the awful siege of
Jerusalem.

'And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof
is nigh.' (Luke xxi. 20.)

Forty years before, Jesus Christ Himself had spoken these words, and now there began for Jerusalem
days filled with horror and woe, 'such as was not from the beginning of the creation which
God created unto this time.' (Mark xiii. 19.)

The story of these days has been written for us by a wise Jew named Josephus.  He was a prisoner
in the Roman camp during the siege of Jerusalem, and he watched with dismay the great battering-rams
and war engines crashing through the walls of the Holy City.  His ears rang with the cries
of rage and despair which broke from the Jews within, as one by one their defences fell, and
the end drew near!

Then food failed in the city; men fought like demons in the streets for a tiny loaf of barley-bread;
so frantic were the people with hunger that mothers even snatched the bread from their own
children's mouths!

'Look over the walls, O people of Jerusalem; the Roman soldiers are crucifying all the prisoners
they have taken, and the line of crosses is as long as our city is wide!'

Hard, merciless as was the Roman general, even he grew sick with horror at last, and he sent
his Jewish prisoner, Josephus, to the Jews, promising them their lives if they would give up
the city.  But a furious madness had possessed the people, and they refused to yield.

Josephus pleaded in vain.  He was not a Christian, but he could see plainly enough that God
was no longer with His people.

'Ah, my countrymen,' he cried, 'we did nothing without God in the past, but now you are fighting
against Him.  Had God judged you worthy of freedom, He would have punished the Romans as He
did the Assyrians long ago.  God is fled out of your holy place, and stands on the side of
those against whom you fight!'[1]

It is strange and wonderful to read these words in the old history. Even a Jew who had no faith
in Jesus Christ could see plainly that the ancient power and glory of his nation had gone.

At last the end came.  The first wall fell, then the second and the third, until the Roman
soldiers, now as mad as the Jews themselves, burst into the Holy City, hewing down the defenceless
people at every step.

And so they came to the Temple--that beautiful Temple of white marble and gold, which still
glittered like a hill of snow in the morning sunshine, or sparkled as though wrapped in flame
when the sunbeams struck full on its golden roof.

Then redder flames than ever the sunshine made leapt above the golden roof; pillars fell, beams
crumbled to ashes, while round the altar of sacrifice the people of Jerusalem lay heaped together,
slain in such numbers in the Holy Place that their blood flowed down the broad marble steps
in a heavy crimson stream.

And the golden candlestick and the Book of the Law were carried away in triumph into heathen Rome.

Alas for the Holy City, over which the Saviour of the world had stood and wept forty years
before, knowing the suffering that lay before her!

'These Jews are dangerous.  We must not allow them to rebuild their city, or to become a separate
people again.  As a nation they must cease to exist.'

So the Roman conquerors of Jerusalem agreed; and from that day onward the Jewish people have
had no country of their own.  They have, indeed, been 'led away captive into all nations' (Luke
xxi. 24) exactly as the Lord foretold.

There is scarcely a country in the world where Jews may not be found, but Jerusalem lies still
in the hands of strangers, and is the property of the Turkish nation.

The Jews were now no longer a nation.  They had become merely a body of people led by their
Rabbis, or teachers of the Law; but they were still 'the people of the Book,' for even after
frequent rebellions had so angered the Romans that they passed a law forbidding a Jew to enter
the partially re-built city of Jerusalem under pain of death, they allowed the Jewish teachers
to continue the synagogue services in other parts of Palestine, and to teach in their colleges.

The most famous Jewish college of these days was at Tiberius, on the shores of the 'Sea of
Galilee,' over whose clear depths the Lord Jesus Christ had sailed so often, and beside whose
shores He had done so many wonderful deeds of love and mercy.

A great and beautiful college it was, with broad terraced gardens, where the students paced
to and fro, their whole hearts and souls absorbed in their work.  The Temple copy of the Book
of the Law was now in the palace of the heathen Emperor in Rome, but many less precious copies
were left to them.  So all day long they studied and copied the old Hebrew Bible.

As we have seen, the Jewish scribes had not been content with taking the Word of God just as
it stood; they had begun, even in our Lord's day, to invent explanations of many parts of the
old Books which quite altered their true meaning.

After the fall of Jerusalem the learned Jews, shut away in their colleges and striving to forget
their sorrows, began to write down the Scripture explanations, and to add to them so greatly
that it became more difficult to recall the comments on the Bible than it was to remember the
Bible itself.

These explanations, all collected together, are called 'The Talmud.' Now the learned Jews grew
so fond of their Talmud, that they declared a man to be a blockhead if he knew only the Scriptures
and not the Talmud explanation.

'The law of Moses is like salt, but the Talmud is balmy spice,' they would say.

Yet although they heeded so little the true meaning of God's Book, they guarded its words more
and more carefully; and the rules for copying any portion of the holy Books were strict indeed.

'My son,' an old teacher would say to his pupil, 'before you copy a single word you must wash
your body all over, and clothe yourself in full Jewish dress, preparing your mind with solemn
thoughts.  The parchment you write upon must be made from the skins of "clean" animals only--that
is clean according to the Law of Moses.

'The ink you write with must be of a pure black, made only from a mixture of soot, charcoal,
and honey.  Though you know the whole Book of the Law by heart, you must not write a single
word from memory, but raise your eyes to your copy, and pronounce the word aloud before trusting
it to your pen.  Before writing any of the names of God you must wash your pen: before writing
His most sacred Name you must wash your whole body.  If, after your copy has itself been examined,
three corrections have to be made, that copy must be destroyed.'

Not satisfied with all these directions, the master taught his scholar to count the letters
of every Book.

One of the letters in Leviticus xi. is the middle letter of all the five Books of Moses, a
word in chapter x. is the middle of all the words, and a verse in chapter viii. is the very
centre of all the verses.  The letter 'A'--that is the Hebrew letter which stands for 'A'--occurs
42,377 times; the letter 'B' 35,218, and so on.

Not only this, but every scribe was required to know from memory exactly how many letters of
each kind there should be in his sheet before he began to write.  Every sheet of parchment
must contain an equal number of lines, and the breadth of each column had to be thirty letters
wide.

There are eleven verses in the Book of the Law beginning and ending with 'N,' there are forty
verses in which 'Lo' is read three times--and so on, and so on.

How tedious and meaningless such information appears!  Of what value were all these details?

To spend all his days in learning such things as these could have no influence on a man's character,
nor make him a power for good in the world.  Not for this purpose had God revealed His will to man.

Some years ago in the coffin of an Egyptian mummy, a little jar of wheat was found.  For thousands
of years it had lain there, shut up in the dark, while out in the fields the corn which had
been sown had grown up and been reaped every year, and men and women had been fed. But this
jar of corn was useless, because it had been prevented from doing the work in the world for
which it was created.

Just so was it with the Hebrew copies of God's Word.  Locked up in a dead language, kept close,
away from the world, they were like the jar of wheat which could not grow.

But meanwhile God's Book was growing in the wide fields beyond.  While the Jews were keeping
safe the letters of the Old Testament, the New Testament was beginning to do its mighty work
in the great heathen cities of the world.

[1] Josephus: 'Wars,' Books v. and vi.

CHAPTER X

THE BEGINNING OF THE NEW TESTAMENT

Turn to the list of books given in the beginning of your New Testament. You will see that first
come the four Gospels, or glimpses of the Saviour's life given by four different writers. 
Then follows the Acts of the Apostles, and, lastly, after the twenty-one epistles, the volume
ends with the Revelation.

Now this is not the order in which the books were written--they are only arranged like this
for our convenience.

The first words of the New Testament were written, not as we should have supposed by one of
the twelve apostles, or by some one who had loved and followed the Lord Jesus Christ when He
was upon earth.  They are written by a Pharisee who had been one of Christ's bitterest enemies.

Though Saul had, as far as we know, never seen the Saviour on earth, what he had heard of His
work and teaching made him feel that in stamping out all the followers of the so-called Messiah,
he would be doing God service.  But we remember how the Saviour Himself appeared to Saul on
his way to Damascus, and how his heart was changed, and his eyes were opened.

We can scarcely imagine the transformation which came over his mind. Together with all the
other learned Jews he had considered Jesus of Nazareth to be an impostor, and to blaspheme
the words of God's Holy Book when He applied them to Himself.  Now Saul the Pharisee understood
that he and his countrymen, not Jesus of Nazareth, were at fault. 9.)

Then the full tide of Jewish anger turned upon him.  That he should join the followers of the
despised Nazarene and forsake the sacred traditions of the Law made all the Jews scattered
through the then-known world into his bitterest enemies.

Paul, as he was afterwards called, loved his countrymen with a passionate love.  He would gladly
have died for them,[1] and that he should be unable to show them what was so clear to himself,
was certainly the greatest sorrow and disappointment of his life.  But though he was unable
to help his countrymen, as a nation, God made him the most successful missionary-traveller
the world has ever known, and to him was given the privilege of writing a large part of the
New Testament.

Before we think about his writings, however, let us look at the condition of the great heathen
cities of the world at the time when he lived.

In the year A.D. 54, that is, twenty years after our Saviour's death upon the cross, the Emperor
Nero, who is still remembered as one of the worst men who ever lived, began to reign in Rome.

For many years the Roman Emperors had been masters of all the then-known nations, and for awhile
they had ruled justly; but ever as the Roman Empire increased in power and riches, the Roman
rulers grew more haughty and selfish, until at last they cared for nothing but their own pleasures,
and spent their days in drinking and feasting, wasting enormous sums in senseless extravagance,
while thousands of their subjects starved.

A dreadful city Rome must have been in those days, though to look at she was beautiful indeed.

A city of marble palaces, of fair white statues and green gardens; of huge public baths and
theatres.  On one side stood an enormous building, with a round space in the centre, and tiers
of seats rising one above another like a circus.  This was an amphitheatre, where shows and
performances were given.

There were no sham combats in a Roman circus; no mere pretence of being wounded.  Men fought
with men in stern reality; worse still, men were made to fight with wild beasts.  Lions and
tigers, and fierce bulls tore and gored men to death, while the audience leaned back in their
comfortable seats, watching the horrible scenes intently.

Every rich man in Rome at the time of which we write owned hundreds of slaves, who were the
absolute property of their owners.

A slave-girl who arranged her mistress's hair badly was burnt with a hot iron.  If a slave-boy
broke a costly vase his master might whip him to death, or have him thrown into a tank full
of ravenous fish.  There was no limit to the master's power.

Although millions of people had scarcely a rag to cover them, or a crust to eat, the rich people
flung their gold away on useless trifles. Indeed, a kind of competition existed among them
as to who could waste his money the most foolishly.

'Nightingales sing more sweetly than any other bird,' thought one of these.  'I have it.  I'll
order a dish of nightingales' tongues for my feast next week; that will be something rare and
expensive indeed!'

All his friends were charmed with the new idea, and nightingales' tongues became quite the fashion.

But all the time, in this mighty city, so black with sin, so red with cruelty, the pure white
light of the Gospel of Christ had begun to shine.

