BLACKWOOD'S
  EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

  No. CCCLX. OCTOBER, 1845. Vol. LVIII.

  CONTENTS.

  Montesquieu,                                           389
  A Reminiscence of Boyhood. By Delta,                   408
  De Burtin on Pictures,                                 413
  Manner and Matter,                                     431
  Marston; or, the Memoirs of a Statesman. Conclusion.   439
  How we Got Up the Glenmutchkin Railway,                453
  The Science of Languages. Kavanagh,                    467
  Scrambles in Monmouthshire,                            474
  Neapolitan Sketches,                                   486
  A Meditation,                                          494
  On the Old Year,                                       495
  Corali,                                               ib.

No. CCCLX. OCTOBER, 1845. Vol. LVIII.

MONTESQUIEU.

Montesquieu is beyond all doubt the founder of the philosophy of history. In many of its most
important branches, he has carried it to a degree of perfection which has never since been
surpassed. He first looked on human affairs with the eye of philosophic observation; he first
sought to discover the lasting causes which influence the fate of mankind; he first traced
the general laws which in every age determine the rise or decline of nations. Some of his conclusions
were hasty; many of his analogies fanciful; but he first turned the human mind in that direction.
It is by repeatedly deviating into error that it can alone be discovered where truth really
lies: there is an alchemy in the moral, not less than in the material world, in which a vast
amount of genius must be lost before it is discovered that it has taken the wrong direction.
But in Montesquieu, besides such occasional and unavoidable aberrations, there is an invaluable
treasure of profound views and original thought--of luminous observation and deep reflection--of
philosophic observation and just generalization. His fame has been long established; it has
become European; his sayings are quoted and repeated from one end of the world to the other;
but to the greater part of English readers, his greatness is known rather from the distant
echo of continental fame, than from any practical acquaintance with the writings from which
it has arisen.

Though Montesquieu, however, is the father of the philosophy of history, it is due to Tacitus
and Machiavel to say, that he is not the author of political thought. In the first of these
writers is to be found the most profound observations on the working of the human mind, whether
in individuals or bodies of men, that ever were formed by human sagacity: in the latter, a
series of remarks on Roman history, and the corresponding events in the republics of modern
Italy, which, in point of deep political wisdom and penetration, never were surpassed. Lord
Bacon, too, had in his Essays put forth may maxims of political truth, with that profound sagacity
and unerring wisdom by which his thoughts were so preeminently distinguished. But still these
men, great as they were, and much as they added to the materials of the philosophy of history,
can hardly be said to have mastered that philosophy itself. It was not their object to do so;
it did not belong to the age in which they lived to make any such attempt. They gave incomparable
observations upon detached points in human annals, but they did not take a general view of
their tendency. They did not consider whence the world had come, or whither it was going. They
formed no connected system in regard to the march of human events. They saw clearly the effects
of particular measures or systems of government at the time, but they did not reflect on the
chain of causes which first raised up, and afterwards undermined it. Aristotle, the most powerful
intellect of the ancient world, was of the same calibre as a political observer. He considered
only the effects of the various forms of government which he saw established around him. In
that survey he was admirable, but he never went beyond it. Bossuet's Universal History is little
more than a history of the Jews; he refers every thing to the direct and immediate agency of
Providence, irrespective of the freedom of the human will. Montesquieu first fixed his eyes
upon the rise, progress, and decay of nations, as worked out by the actions of free agents.
The Grandeur et Décadence des Romains is as original as the Principia, and laid the foundation
of a science as sublime, and perhaps still more important to man than the laws of the planetary
bodies.

Charles Secondat, Baron de la Brede and Montesquieu, was born at the chateau of La Brede, near
Bourdeaux, on the 18th January 1689. The estate of La Brede had been long in his family, which
was a very ancient one; it had been erected into a barony in favour of Jacob de Secondat, his
great-great-grandfather, by Henry IV. The office of President of the Parliament (or Local Court
of Justice) of Bourdeaux, had been acquired by his family in consequence of the marriage of
his father with the daughter of the first president of that tribunal. From his earliest years
young Montesquieu evinced remarkable readiness and vivacity of mind; a circumstance which determined
his father to breed him up to the "magistracy," as it was termed in France--a profession midway,
as it were, between the career of arms peculiar to the noble, and the labours of the bar confined
to persons of plebeian origin, and from which many of the greatest men, and nearly all the
distinguished statesmen of France took their rise. Montesquieu entered with the characteristic
ardour of his disposition into the studies suited for that destination; and at the age of twenty
he had already collected the materials of the Esprit des Loix, and evinced the characteristic
turn of his mind for generalization, by an immense digest which he had made of the civil law.
But these dry, though important studies, did not exclusively occupy his mind; he carried on,
at the same time, a great variety of other pursuits. Like all men of an active and intellectual
turn of mind, his recreation was found not in repose, but in change of occupation. Books of
voyages and travels were collected, and read with avidity; he devoured rather than read the
classical remains of Greece and Rome. "That antiquity," said he, "enchants me, and I am always
ready to say with Pliny--You are going to Athens; show respect to the gods."

It was under this feeling of devout gratitude to the master minds of the ancient world, that
he made his first essay in literature, which came out in a small work in the form of letters,
the object of which was to show, that the idolatry of most Pagans did of itself not merit eternal
damnation. Probably there are few good Christians, from Fénélon and Tillotson downwards, who
will be of an opposite opinion. Even in that juvenile production are to be found traces of
the sound judgment, correct taste, and general thought which characterised his later works.
But he was soon thrown into the proper labours of his profession. On the 24th February 1714,
he was admitted into the parliament of Bourdeaux as a councillor; and his paternal uncle, who
held the president's chair, having died two years after, young Montesquieu was, on the 13th
July 1716, appointed to that important office, though only twenty-seven years of age. Probably
his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of onerous and important duties, had
an important effect in producing that firmness and maturity of judgment by which his mind was
subsequently distinguished. Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of his fitness
for the situation, in the vigour with which he remonstrated against the imposition of a fresh
tax on wine, which had the effect of procuring its removal at the time, though the necessities
of government led to its being reimposed some years after. But his ardent mind was not confined
to professional pursuits. He concurred in the formation of an academy of sciences at Bourdeaux,
and read some papers in it on natural history; and his attention being in this way turned to
physical science, he wrote and published in the journals, a project for a "Physical History
of the Earth, Ancient and Modern."

But in no human being was more completely exemplified the famous line--

    "The proper study of mankind is man."

Montesquieu's genius was essentially moral and political; it was on man himself, not the material
world with which he was surrounded, that his thoughts were fixed. This strong bent soon appeared
in his writings. He next read at the academy at Bourdeaux, a "Life of the Duke of Berwick,"
and an "Essay on the Policy of the Romans in Religion," which was the basis of the immortal
work which he afterwards composed on the rise and fall of that extraordinary people. These
desultory essays gave no indication of the first considerable work which he published, which
was the famous Lettres Persanes. They appeared in 1721, when he was thirty-two years of age.
Their success was immediate and prodigious; a certain indication in matters of thought, that
they were not destined to durable fame. They fell in with the ideas and passions of the time;
they were not before it; thence their early popularity and ultimate oblivion. The work was
published anonymously; for the keen but delicate satire on French manners and vices which it
contained, might have endangered the author, and as it was he had no small difficulty, when
it was known he was the writer, in escaping from its effects. It consists in a series of letters
from an imaginary character, Usbeck, a Persian traveller, detailing the vices, manners, and
customs of the French metropolis. The ingenuity, sarcasm, and truth, which that once celebrated
production contains, must not make us shut our eyes to its glaring defects; the vices of the
age, as they mainly contributed to its early popularity, have been the chief cause of its subsequent
decline. It contains many passages improperly warm and voluptuous, and some which, under the
mask of attacks on the Jesuits, had the appearance, at least, of being levelled at religion
itself. No work, at that period, could attract attention in France which was not disfigured
by these blemishes. Even the great mind of Montesquieu, in its first essay before the public,
did not escape the contagion of the age.

But, erelong, the genius of this profound thinker was devoted to more congenial and worthy
objects. In 1726, he sold his office of president of the parliament of Bourdeaux, partly in
order to escape from the toils of legal pursuit and judicial business, which, in that mercantile
and rising community, was attended with great labour; partly in order to be enabled to travel,
and study the institutions and character of different nations--a pursuit of which he was passionately
fond, and which, without doubt, had a powerful effect in giving him that vast command of detached
facts in political science, and that liberal view of institutions, habits, and manners, differing
in some degree from his own, by which his philosophical writings are so eminently distinguished.
Here, as in the biography of almost all other really great men, it is found, that some circumstances
apparently trivial or accidental have given a permanent bent to their mind; have stored it
with the appropriate knowledge, and turned it, as it were, into the allotted sphere, and contributed
to form the matrix in which original thought was formed, and new truth communicated by Providence
to mankind. In the course of his travels, which lasted several years, he visited successively
Austria, Hungary, Italy, Switzerland, the Rhine, Flanders, Holland, and England--in the latter
of which he lived two years. During these varied travels, he made notes on all the countries
which he visited, which contributed largely to the great stock of political information which
he possessed. These notes are still extant; but, unfortunately, not in such a state of maturity
as to admit of publication.

On his return to France, which took place in 1732, he retired to his native chateau of La Brede,
and commenced in good earnest the great business of his life. Great and original as this work--the
most perfect of all his compositions--was, it did not give vent to the whole ideas which filled
his capacious mind. Rome, great as it was, was but a single state; it was the comparison with
other states, the development of the general principles which run through the jurisprudence
and institutions of all nations, which occupied his thoughts. The success which attended his
essay on the institutions and progress of a single people, encouraged him to enlarge his views
and extend his labours. He came to embrace the whole known world, civilized and uncivilized,
in his plan; and after fourteen years of assiduous labours and toil, the immortal "Spirit of
Laws" appeared.

The history of Montesquieu's mind, during the progress of this great work, is singularly curious
and interesting. At times he wrote to his friends that his great work advanced "à pas de géant;"
at others, he was depressed by the slow progress which it made, and overwhelmed by the prodigious
mass of materials which required to be worked into its composition. So distrustful was he of
its success, even after the vast labour he had employed in its composition, that he sent his
manuscript before publication to a friend on whose judgment he could rely--Helvetius. That
friend, notwithstanding all his penetration, was so mistaken in his reckoning, that he conceived
the most serious disquietude as to the ruin of Montesquieu's reputation by the publication
of such a work. Such was his alarm that he did not venture to write to the author on the subject,
but gave the manuscript to another critic, Saurin, the author of a work entitled Spartacus,
long since extinct, who passed the same judgment upon it. Both concurred in thinking that the
reputation of Montesquieu would be entirely ruined by the publication of the new manuscript;
the brilliant author of the semi-voluptuous, semi-infidel Lettres Persanes, would sink into
a mere Legist, a dull commentator on pandects and statutes, if he published the Esprit des
Loix, "That," said Helvetius, "is what afflicts me for him, and for humanity, which he was
so well qualified to have served." It was agreed between them that Helvetius should write to
Montesquieu to give him an account of their joint opinion, that he should not give the work
to the world in its present state. Saurin, with some reason, was afraid that Montesquieu would
be hurt at their communication; but Helvetius wrote to him--"Be not uneasy; he is not hurt
at our advice; he loves frankness in his friends. He is willing to bear with discussions, but
answers only by sallies, and rarely changes his opinions. I have not given him ours from any
idea that he would either change his conduct or modify his preconceived ideas, but from a sense
of the duty of sincerity cost what it will, with friends. When the light of truth shall have
dispelled the illusions of self-love, he will at least not be able to reproach us with having
been less indulgent than the public."

Montesquieu, however, was not discouraged. He sent his manuscript to the press with hardly
any alteration, and took for his motto, Prolem sine matre creatam;[1] in allusion to the originality
of his conception, and the total want of any previous model on which it had been formed. The
work appeared in the month of July 1748; and its success, so far as the sale went, was prodigious.
Before two years had elapsed, it had gone through twenty-two editions, and been translated
into most of the European languages. This early success, rare in works of profound and original
thought, showed, that though it was in advance of the age, it was but a little in advance;
and that it had struck a key which was ready to vibrate in the national mind. Like all distinguished
works, if it was much read and admired by some, it was as keenly criticized and cut to pieces
by others. Madame de Deffand said it was not the Esprit des Loix he had written, but Esprit
sur les Loix. This expression made a great noise; it had a certain degree of truth, just enough,
when coupled with epigrammatic brevity, to make the fortune of the sayer. Encouraged by its
success, the enemies of original genius, ever ready to assail it, united their forces, and
Montesquieu was soon the object of repeated and envenomed attacks. It was said, that to establish
certain favourite theories, he availed himself of the testimony of travellers obscure and of
doubtful credit; that he leapt too rapidly from particulars to general conclusions; that he
ascribed to the influence of climate and physical laws what was in fact the result of moral
or political causes; that he had split the same subject into small chapters, so confusedly
arranged that there was no order or system in the work; that it was still incomplete, and wanted
the master-hand which was to put it together; and that it resembled the detached pieces of
a mosaic pavement, each of which is fair or brilliant in itself, but which have no meaning
or expression till disposed by the taste and skill of the artist. There was some truth in all
these criticisms; it is rare that it is otherwise with the reproaches made against a work of
original thought. Envy generally discovers a blot to hit. Malignity is seldom at a loss for
some blemish to point out. It is by exaggerating slight defects, and preserving silence on
great merits, that literary jealousy ever tries to work out its wretched spite. The wisdom
of an author is not to resent or overlook, but in silence to profit by such sallies; converting
thus the industry and envy of his enemies into a source of advantage to himself.

Montesquieu, in pursuance of these principles, passed over in silence the malignant attacks
of a herd of critics, whose works are now buried in the charnel-house of time, but who strove
with all the fury of envy and disappointment to extinguish his rising fame. When pressed by
some of his friends to answer some of these attacks, he replied--"It is unnecessary; I am sufficiently
avenged on some by the neglect of the public, on others by its indignation." The only instance
in which he deviated from this wise resolution was in replying to the attacks of an anonymous
critic, who, in a Journal entitled the Nouvelles Ecclesiastiques, had represented him as an
atheist. In his Lettres Persanes, though he had never assailed the great principles of his
religion, he had, in his sallies against the Jesuits, gone far to warrant the belief that he
was inclined to do so; and had already done enough in the estimation of the tyrannical and
bigoted ecclesiastics who at that period ruled the Church of France, to warrant his being included
in the class of infidel writers. But his mind, chastened by years, enlightened by travelling
and reflection, had come to cast off these prejudices of his age and country, the necessary
result of the Romish tyranny by which it had been oppressed, but unworthy of an intellect of
such grasp and candour. In the Protestant countries of Europe, particularly Holland and England,
he had seen the working of Christianity detached from the rigid despotism by which the Church
of Rome fetters belief, and the well-conceived appliances by which it stimulates imagination,
and opens a refuge for frailty. Impressed with the new ideas thus awakened in his mind, he
had in his Esprit des Loix pronounced a studious and sincere eulogium on Christianity; recommending
it, not only as the most perfect of all systems of religious belief, but as the only secure
basis of social order and improvement. It was material to correct the impression, partly just,
partly erroneous, which his earlier and more indiscreet writings had produced; and with this
view he wrote and published his Defence de l' Esprit des Loix. This little piece is a model
of just and candid reasoning, accompanied with a refined and delicate vein of ridicule, which
disarmed opposition without giving ground for resentment. He congratulated himself on the fine
satire with which he had overthrown his enemies.--"What pleases me in my Defence, is not so
much," said he, "to have floored the Ecclesiastics, as to have let them fall so gently." Posterity
will find a more valuable charm in this little production; it is, that the author in it has
unconsciously painted himself. His contemporaries have recorded, that in reading it they could
believe they heard the writer speak; and this proves that his talents in conversation had been
equal to those he displayed in writing--a combination very rare in persons of the highest class
in literature.

The fame of Montesquieu, great as it was in his own country, was even greater in foreign ones.
In Great Britain in particular, the Esprit des Loix early acquired a prodigious reputation.
It was read and admired by all persons of thought and education. This was partly the consequence
of England being so much in advance of France in the career of liberty--alike in matters civil
and ecclesiastical. The new ideas, hardy thoughts, and original conceptions of the great work
met with a ready reception, and cordial admiration, in the land of freedom and the Reformation--in
the country where meditation had so long been turned to political subjects, contemplation to
religious truth. But another cause of lasting influence also contributed to the same effect.
Original genius is ever more readily and willingly admired in foreign states than its own:
a prophet has no honour in his own country. He interferes too much with existing influences
or reputations. To foreigners, he is more remote--more like a dead man. Human vanity is less
hurt by his elevation.

The latter years of Montesquieu's life were spent almost entirely in retirement at his paternal
chateau of La Brede, varied occasionally by visits to the great world at Paris. He was occupied
in agriculture and gardening--tenacious of his seignorial rights, but indulgent to the last
degree to his tenantry, by whom he was adored. Never was exemplified in a more remarkable manner
the soothing influence of the recollections of a well-spent life on the felicity of its later
years, or the fountains of happiness which may be opened in the breast itself from the calm
serenity of conscious power and great achievement. He conversed much, with the farmers and
peasants on his estate, whose houses he frequently entered, and whose convivialities, on occasion
of a marriage or a birth, he seldom failed to attend. He often preferred their conversation
to that of persons their superiors in rank or information--"for," said he, "they are not learned
enough to enter into argument; they only tell you what they know, which frequently you do not
know yourself." Though he lived with the great when in Paris, partly from necessity, partly
from inclination, yet their society was noways necessary to his happiness. He flew as soon
as he could from their brilliant assemblies to the retirement of his estate, where he found
with joy, philosophy, books, and repose. Surrounded by the people of the country in their hours
of leisure, after having studied man in the intercourse of the world and the history of nations,
he studied it in those simple minds which nature alone had taught; and he found something to
learn there. He conversed cheerfully with them; like Socrates, he drew out their talents and
information; he appeared to take as much pleasure in their conversation as in that of the brilliant
circles by which he was courted in the capital; he terminated their disputes by his wisdom,
assuaged their sufferings by his beneficence.

In society he was uniformly affable, cheerful, and considerate. His conversation was light,
agreeable, and instructive, abounding with anecdotes of the great number of eminent men with
whom he had lived. Like his style in writing, it was brief, tranchant, and epigrammatic, full
of wit and observation, but without a particle of bitterness or satire. In common with all
men of the highest class of intellect, he was totally devoid of envy or jealousy. None more
readily applauded genius or merit in others, or was more desirous on all occasions to bring
it forward, and give it the due reward. No one recounted anecdotes with more vivacity, a happier
effect, or less tedium. He knew that the close of all such narratives contains in general all
that is pleasing in them; and therefore he hastened to arrive at it before the patience of
his hearers could be exhausted. He had a perfect horror at long stories. He was frequently
absent, and remained in society for some time wrapt in thought, without speaking; but never
failed, on such occasions, to make amends by some unexpected remark or anecdote, which revived
the languishing conversation. His mind was full: no subject could be mentioned on which he
was not informed; but he never brought his knowledge ostentatiously forward, and sought rather
to draw out those around him, and lead the conversation so as to make others shine, than to
do so himself.

He was regular and methodical in his life; and this arose not merely from his character and
disposition, but the order he had prescribed to himself in his studies. Though capable of long-continued
effort and profound meditation, he never exhausted his strength; he uniformly changed the subject
of his labour, or book, to some recreation, before feeling the sensation of fatigue. Temperate
in his habits, serene and unruffled in his mind, he enjoyed a much larger share of happiness
than falls to the lot of most men. He was fortunately married; had affectionate children, whose
kindness and attentions solaced his declining years; and his remarkable prudence and economy
not only preserved him from those pecuniary embarrassments so common to men of genius, but
enabled him frequently to indulge the benevolence of his disposition by splendid acts of generosity.
He frequently said that he had never experienced a chagrin in life which an hour's reading
did not dissipate. In his later years, when his eyesight was affected he depended chiefly on
listening to reading aloud, which was done alternately by his secretary and one of his daughters.
He had every thing which could make life happy; an ample fortune, affectionate family, fame
never contested, the consciousness of great powers nobly applied--"I have never through life,"
said he in his old age, "had a chagrin, still less an hour of ennui. I waken in the morning
with a secret pleasure at beholding the light. I gaze upon it with species of ravishment. All
the day I am content. In the evening when I retire to rest, I fall into a sort of reverie which
prevents the effort of thought, and I pass the night without once waking."

No man ever possessed a higher sense of the dignity of intellectual power, of its great and
glorious mission, of its superiority to all the world calls great, and of the consequent jealousy
and aversion with which it is sure to be regarded by the depositaries of political authority.
He was neglected by them; he knew it, and expected it; it never gave him a moment's chagrin.
"He was not insensible," says D'Alembert, "to glory; but he had no desire to win but by deserving
it. Never did he attempt to enhance his reputation by the underhand devices and secret machinations
by which second-rate men so often strive to sustain their literary fortunes. Worthy of every
eloge and of every recompense, he asked nothing, and was noways surprised at being forgot.
But he had courage enough in critical circumstances to solicit the protection at court of men
of letters persecuted and unfortunate, and he obtained their restoration to favour." What a
picture of the first man of his age, living in retirement, asking nothing, noways surprised
at being forgot! He knew human nature well who acted thus after writing the Esprit des Loix.
Power loves talent as long as it serves itself, when it is useful but manageable; it hates
it when it becomes its instructor. Self-love is gratified by the subservience of genius in
the first case; it is mortified by its superiority in the last.

But this honoured and happy life was drawing to a close. Shortly after the publication of the
Esprit des Loix, the strength of Montesquieu rapidly declined; it seemed as if nature had been
exhausted by that great production. "I had intended," said he in his journal, "to give more
extent and depth to some parts of the Esprit des Loix, but I have become incapable of it. Reading
has weakened my eyes; and it seems as if the little light that still remains to them, is but
the dawn of the day when they will close for ever." His anticipations were not long of being
carried into effect. In February 1755, he was seized with an inflammatory fever when on a visit
at Paris. The utmost care and attention was bestowed on him by a number of friends especially
the Duc de Nivernois and the Duchesse d'Aiguillon, two of his oldest friends; but he sunk under
the malady at the end of thirteen days. The sweetness of his temper and serenity of his disposition
never deserted him during this illness. From the first he was aware of its dangerous nature,
but not a groan, a complaint, or a murmur ever escaped his lips. The Jesuits made strenuous
endeavours to get possession of him during his last moments; but, though strongly impressed
with religions principle, he resisted all their efforts to extract from him a declaration in
favour of their peculiar tenets. "I have always respected religion," said he; "the morality
of the Gospel is the noblest gift ever bestowed by God on man." The Jesuits strenuously urged
him to put into their hands a corrected copy of the Lettres Persanes, in which he had expunged
the passages having an irreligious tendency, but he refused to give it to them; but he gave
the copy to the Duchesse d'Aiguillon, and Madame Dupré de St Maur, who were in the apartment,
with instructions for its publication, saying, "I will sacrifice every thing to religion, but
nothing to the Jesuits." Shortly after he received extreme unction from the hands of the curé
of the parish. "Sir," said the priest, "you now feel how great is God." "Yes," he replied,
"and how little man." These were his last words. He died on the 10th of February 1755.

Montesquieu left a great number of manuscripts and notes; but they were in so incomplete a
state, that a few detached fragments only have been deemed fit for publication. He had written
a journal of his travels, and in particular a set of "Notes on England," which would have been
of much value had they been worked up to a mature form; but death interrupted him when he was
only in the commencement of that great undertaking. He had begun a history of France under
Louis XI., which is still extant, though very little progress was made in the work. The introduction,
containing a sketch of the state of Europe at that period, is said to equal the most brilliant
picture left by his immortal hand. It is written in the terse, epigrammatic style which is
so characteristic of its author; and a few striking expressions preserved by those who have
had access to the manuscript, will convey an idea of what the work would have been. "He saw
only," said he, "in the commencement of his reign, the commencement of vengeance." Terminating
a parallel of Louis XI. and Richelieu, which he drew much to the advantage of the latter, he
observed, "He made the monarch play the second part in the monarchy, but the first in Europe--he
lowered the king, but he raised the Kingdom." These and similar expressions are in Montesquieu's
peculiar and nervous style, and they prove that the work would have contained, if completed,
many brilliant passages; but they do not warrant the conclusion that the history itself would
have been of much value. There is nothing more dangerous to an historian than great powers
of epigrammatic expression; it almost inevitably leads to the sacrifice of truth and candour
to point and antithesis. It is well for Tacitus that we have not the other side of his story
recounted by a writer of equal power, but less party spirit and force of expression. In truth,
it is probable the world has not lost much by Montesquieu's numerous unpublished manuscripts
having been left in an incomplete state. There is no end to the writing of romances, or the
annals of human events, but there is a very early limit to the production of original ideas,
even to the greatest intellects; to Plato, Bacon, Newton, Smith, or Montesquieu, they are given
only in a limited number. Hence their frequent repetition of the same thoughts, when their
writings become voluminous. Montesquieu has done enough; his mission to man has been amply
fulfilled.

In common with other men whose thoughts have made a great and wide-spread impression on mankind,
the originality and value of Montesquieu's conceptions cannot be rightly appreciated by subsequent
ages. That is the consequence of their very originality and importance. They have sunk so deep,
and spread so far among mankind, that they have become common and almost trite. Like the expressions
of Shakspeare, Gray, or Milton, they have become household words; on reading his works, we
are astonished to find how vast a proportion of our habitual thoughts and expressions have
sprung from that source. This, however, far from being a reproach to an author, is his highest
commendation; it demonstrates at once the impression his thoughts have made on mankind. If
we would discover the step a great man has made, we must recur to the authors in the same line
who have preceded him, and then the change appears great indeed. The highest praise which can
be bestowed on an author of original thought, is to say, that his ideas were unknown to the
authors who preceded, trite with those who followed him.

