"We soon began to find stones and dirt in the ice, and before we had gone ten miles, found
the frozen carcass of an immense mastodon--its great tusks only showing above the level; but
its huge, woolly body quite plainly visible in the ice. The ice was melting, and there were
many streams running towards the open water. It was warmer as we proceeded. Dirt and rocks
became the rule, instead of the exception, and we were often obliged to go around a great boulder
of granite. While we were resting, on the third day, for a bite to eat, one of the men took
a dish, scooped up some sand from the bottom of the icy stream, and 'panned' it out. There
was gold in it: gold enough to pay to work the ground. About noon of the fifth day, we reached
the summit of the mountain, and from there looked down the other side--upon a sight the like
of which no white men had ever seen before.

"From the very summits of this icy-ring mountain the northern side was a sheer precipice of
more than three thousand feet, and was composed of rocks, and rocks only, the foot of the mighty
crags being washed by an open ocean; and this was lighted up by a peculiar crimson glow. Great
white whales sported in the waters; huge sea-birds hung in circles high in the air; yet below
us, and with our glasses, we could see, on the rocks at the foot of the crags, seals and some
other animals that were strange to us. But follow the line of beetling crags and mountain peaks
where you would, the northern side presented a solid blank wall of awful rocks, in many places
the summit overhanging and the shore well under in the mighty shadow. Nothing that any of us
had ever seen in nature before was so impressive, so awful. We started on our return, after
a couple of hours of the awe-inspiring sight beyond the great ring, and for full two hours
not a man spoke.

"'Father Burrows,' said I, 'what do you think that is back there?'

"'No man knows, my son, and it will devolve on you and me to name it; but we won't unless we
get to it and can take back proofs.'

"'Do you think we could get down the other side?'

"'No, I don't think so, and we seem to have struck it in the lowest spot in sight. I'd give
ten years of my life if the 'Duncan McDonald' was over there in that duck pond.'

"'Captain,' said Eli Jeffries, the second mate, 'do you know what I've been thinkin'? I believe
that 'ere water we seen is an open passage from the Behring side of the frozen ocean over agin'
some of them 'ere Roosian straits. If we could get round to the end of it, we'd sail right
through the great Northwest Passage.'

"'You don't think there is land over there somewhere?'

"'Nope.'

"'Didn't take notice that the face of your "passage" was granite or quartz rocks, hey? Didn't
notice all them animals and birds, hey?--'

"'Look out!' yelled the man ahead with the dog-sledge.

"A strange, whirring noise was heard in the foggy light, that sounded over our heads. We all
dropped to the ground, and the noise increased, until a big flock of huge birds passed over
us in rapid flight north. There must have been thousands of them. Captain Burrows brought his
shot-gun to his shoulder and fired. There were some wild screams in the air, and a bird came
down to the ice with a loud thud. It looked very large a hundred feet away, but sight is very
deceiving in this white country in the semi-darkness. We found it a species of duck, rather
large and with gorgeous plumage.

"'Goin' north, to Eli's "passage" to lay her eggs on the ice,' said the captain, half sarcastically.

"We reached the ship in safety, and the captain and I spent long hours in trying to form some
plan for getting beyond the great ice-ring.

"'If it's warm up there, and everything that we've seen says it is, all this cold water that's
going north gets warm and goes out some place; and rest you, son, wherever it goes out, there's
a hole in the ice.'

"Here we were interrupted by the mate, who said that there were queer things going on overhead,
and some of the sailors were ready to mutiny unless the return trip was commenced. Captain
Burrows went on deck at once, and you may be sure I followed at his heels.

"'What's wrong here?' demanded the captain, in his roaring tone, stepping into the midst of
the crew.

"'A judgment against this pryin' into God's secrets, sir,' said an English sailor, in an awe-struck
voice. 'Look at the signs, sir,' pointing overhead.

"Captain Burrows and I both looked over our heads, and there saw an impressive sight, indeed.
A vast colored map of an unknown world hung in the clouds over us--a mirage from the aurora.
It looked very near, and was so distinct that we could distinguish polar bears on the ice-crags.
One man insisted that the mainmast almost touched one snowy peak, and most of them actually
believed that it was an inverted part of some world, slowly coming down to crush us. Captain
Burrows looked for several minutes before he spoke. Then he said: 'My men, this is the grandest
proof of all that Providence is helping us. This thing that you see is only a picture; it's
a mirage, the reflection of a portion of the earth on the sky. Just look, and you will see
that it's in the shape of a crescent, and we are almost in the center of it; and, I tell you,
it's a picture of the country just in front of us. See this peak? See that low place where
we went up? There is the great wall we saw, the open sea beyond it, and, bless me, if it don't
look like something green over in the middle of that ocean! See, here is the "Duncan McDonald,"
as plain as A, B, C, right overhead. Now, there's nothing to be afraid of in that; if it's
a warning, it's a good one--and if any one wants to go home to his mother's, and is old enough,
he can walk!'

"The captain looked around, but the sailors were as cool as he was--they were reassured by
his honest explanation. Then he took me by the arm, and, pointing to the painting in the sky,
said: 'Old man Providence again, son, sure as you are born; do you see that lane through the
great ring? There's an open, fairly straight passage to the inner ocean, except that it's closed
by about three miles of ice on our side; see it there, on the port side?'

"Yes, I could see it, but I asked Captain Burrows how he could account for the open passages
beyond and the wall of ice in front; it was cold water going in.

"'It's strange,' he answered, shading his eye with his hand, and looking long at the picture
of the clear passage, like a great canal between the beetling cliffs. All at once, he grasped
my arm and said in excitement, pointing towards the outer end of the passage: 'Look!'

"As I looked at the mirage again, the great mass of ice in front commenced to slowly turn over,
outwardly.

"'It's an iceberg, sir, only an iceberg!' said the captain, excitedly, 'and she is just holding
that passage because the current keeps her up against the hole; now, she will wear out some
day, and then--in goes the "Duncan McDonald"!'

"'But there are others to take its place,' and I pointed to three other bergs, apparently some
twenty miles away, plainly shown in the sky; 'they are the reinforcements to hold the passage.'

"'Looks that way, son, but by the great American buzzard, we'll get in there somehow, if we
have to blow that berg up.'

"As we looked, the picture commenced to disappear, not fade, but to go off to one side, just
as a picture leaves the screen of a magic lantern. Over the inner ocean there appeared dark
clouds; but this part was visible last, and the clouds seemed to break at the last moment,
and a white city, set in green fields and forests, was visible for an instant, a great golden
dome in the center remaining in view after the rest of the city was invisible.

"'A rainbow of promise, son,' said the captain.

"I looked around. The others had grown tired of looking, and were gone. Captain Burrows and
myself were the only ones that saw the city.

"We got under way for an hour, and then stood by near the berg until eight bells the next morning;
but you must remember it was half dark all the time up there then. While Captain Burrows and
myself were at breakfast, he cudgeled his brains over ways and means for moving that ice, or
preventing other bergs from taking its place. When we went on deck, our berg was some distance
from the mouth of the passage, and steadily floating away. Captain Burrows steamed the ship
cautiously up toward the passage; there was a steady current coming out.

"'I reckon,' said Eli Jeffries, 'they must have a six-months' ebb and flow up in that ocean.'

"'If that's the case, said Captain Burrows, 'the sooner we get in, the better;' and he ordered
the 'Duncan McDonald' into the breach in the world of ice.

"Gentlemen, suffice it to say that we found that passage perfectly clear, and wider as we proceeded.
This we did slowly, keeping the lead going constantly. The first mate reported the needle of
the compass working curiously, dipping down hard, and sparking--something he had never seen.
Captain Burrows only said: 'Let her spark!'

"As we approached the inner ocean, as we called it, the passage was narrow; it became very
dark and the waters roared ahead. I feared a fall or rapid, but the 'Duncan McDonald' could
not turn back. The noise was only the surf on the great crags within. As the ship passed out
into the open sea beyond, the needle of the compass turned clear around and pointed back. 'Do
you know, son,' said Captain Burrows, 'that I believe the so-called magnetic pole is a great
ring around the true Pole, and that we just passed it there? The whole inside of this mountain
looks to me like rusted iron instead of stone, anyhow.'"

Here our story-teller rested and dozed for a few minutes; then rousing up, he said: "I'll tell
you the rest to-morrow; yes, to-morrow; I'm tired now. To-morrow I'll tell you about a wonderful
country; wonderful cities; wonderful people! I'll show you solar pictures such as you never
saw, of scenes, places, and people you never dreamed of. I will show you implements that will
prove that there's a country where gold is as common as tin at home--where they make knives
and forks and stew-pans of it! I'll show you writing more ancient and more interesting than
the most treasured relics in our Sanscrit libraries. I'll tell you of the two years I spent
in another world. I'll tell you of the precious cargo that went to the bottom of the frozen
ocean with the staunch little ship, 'Duncan McDonald;' of the bravest, noblest commander, and
the sweetest angel of a woman that ever breathed and lived and loved. I'll tell you of my escape
and the hell I've been through. To-morrow--"

He dozed off for a few moments again.

"But I've got enough in this pack to turn the world inside out with wonder--ah, what a sensation
it will be, what an educational feature! It will send out a hundred harum-scarum expeditions
to find Polaria--but there are few commanders like Captain Burrows; he could do it, the rest
of 'em will die in the ice. But when I get to San Fran----. Say, captain, how long will it
take to get there, and how long before you start?"

Enoch and I exchanged glances, and Enoch answered: "We wa'n't goin' to "Frisco."

"Around the Horn, then?" inquired the stranger, sitting up. "But you will land me in 'Frisco,
won't you? I can't wait, I must--"

"We're goin' in," said Enoch; "goin' north, for a three-years' cruise."

"North!" shouted the stranger, wildly. "Three years in that hell of ice. Three years! My God!
North! North!"

He was dancing around the deck like a maniac, trying to put his pack-loop over his head. Enoch
went toward him, to tell him how he could go on the "Enchantress," but he looked wildly at
him, ran forward and sprang out on the bowsprit, and from there to the jib. Enoch saw he was
out of his mind, and ordered two sailors to bring him in. As they sprang on to the bow, he
stood up and screamed:

"No! No! No! Three years! Three lives! Three hells! I never--"

One of the men reached for him here, but he kicked at the sailor viciously, and turning sidewise,
sprang into the water below.

A boat, already in the water, was manned instantly; but the worn-out body of another North
Pole explorer had gone to the sands of the bottom where so many others have gone before; evidently
his heavy pack had held him down, there to guard the story it could tell--in death as he had
in life.

PART II.

CHAPTER I

LEARNING THE BUSINESS--MY FIRST OFFICE

Seated in sumptuously furnished palace cars, annihilating space at the rate of sixty miles
an hour, but few passengers ever give a thought to the telegraph operators of the road stuck
away in towers or in dingy little depots, in swamps, on the tops of mountains, or on the bald
prairies and sandy deserts of the west; and yet, these selfsame telegraph operators are a very
important adjunct to the successful operation of the road, and a single error on the part of
one of them might result in the loss of many lives and thousands of dollars.

The whole length of the railroad from starting point to terminus is literally under the eyes
of the train despatcher. By means of reports sent in by hundreds of different operators, he
knows the exact location of all trains at all times, the number of "loads" and "empties" in
each train, the number of cars on each siding, the number of passing tracks and their capacity,
the capabilities of the different engines, the gradients of the road, the condition of the
roadbed, and, above all, he knows the personal characteristics of every conductor and engineer
on the road. In fact if there is one man of more importance than another on a railroad it is
the train despatcher. During his trick of eight hours he is the autocrat of the road, and his
will in the running of trains is absolute. Therefore despatchers are chosen with very special
regard for their fitness for the position. They must be expert telegraphers, quick at figures,
and above all they must be as cool as ice, have nerves of steel, and must be capable of grasping
a trying situation the minute an emergency arises. An old despatcher once said to me: "Sooner
or later a despatcher, if he sticks to the business, will have his smash-up, and then down
goes a reputation which possibly he has been years in building up, and his name is inscribed
on the roll of 'has-beens.'"

Before the despatcher comes the operator, and the old Biblical saying, "Many are called but
few are chosen," is well illustrated by the small number of good despatchers that are found;
it is easy enough to find excellent operators, but a first-class despatcher is a rarity among them.

I learned telegraphy some fifteen or sixteen years ago at a school away out in western Kansas.
After I had been there three or four months, I was the star of the class, and imagined that
the spirit of Professor Morse had been reincarnated in me. No wire was too swift for me to
work, no office too great for me to manage; in fact visions of a superintendency of telegraph
flitted before my eyes. Such institutions as this school are very correctly named "ham factories."

During my stay at the school I formed the acquaintance of the night operator at the depot and
it was my wont to spend most of my nights there picking up odds and ends of information. For
my own benefit I used to copy everything that came along; but the young man in charge never
left me entirely alone. Night operators at all small stations have to take care of their own
lamps and fires, sweep out, handle baggage, and, in short, be porter as well as operator, and
for the privilege of being allowed to stay about I used to do this work for the night man at
the office in question. His name was Harry Burgess and he was as good a man as ever sat in
front of a key. Some few weeks after this he was transferred to a day office up the road and
by his help I was made night operator in his stead. Need I say how proud I felt when I received
a message from the Chief Despatcher telling me to report for duty that night? I think I was
the proudest man, or boy rather, on this earth. Just think! Night operator, porter and baggageman,
working from seven o'clock in the evening until seven o'clock in the morning, and receiving
the magnificent sum of forty dollars per month! It was enough to make my bosom swell with pride
and it's a wonder I didn't burst.

Heretofore, I had had Burgess to fall back upon when I was copying messages or orders, but
now I was alone and the responsibility was all mine. I managed to get through the first night
very well, because all I had to do was to take a few "red" commercial messages, "O. S." the
trains and load ten big sample trunks on No. 2. The trains were all on time and consequently
there were no orders. I was proud of my success and went off duty at seven o'clock in the morning
with a feeling that my services were well nigh indispensable to the road, and if anything were
to happen to me, receivers would surely have to be appointed.

The second night everything went smoothly until towards eleven o'clock, when the despatcher
began to call "MN," and gave the signal "9." Now the signal "9" means "Train Orders," and takes
precedence over everything else on the wire. The situation was anything but pleasant for me,
because I had never yet, on my own responsibility, taken a train order, and I stood in a wholesome
fear of the results that might accrue from any error of mine. So I didn't answer the despatcher
at once as I should have done because I hoped he would get tired of calling me and would tackle
"OG," and give him the order. But he didn't. He just kept on calling me, increasing his speed
all the time. In sheer desperation, I went out on the platform for five minutes and stamped
around to keep warm, hoping all the time he would stop when he found I did not answer. But
when I returned instead of calling me on one wire, he had his operator calling me on the commercial
line while he was pounding away on the railroad wire. At the rate those two sounders were going
they sounded to me like the crack of doom and I was becoming powerfully warm. I finally mustered
up courage and answered him.

The first thing the despatcher said was:

"Where in h--l have you been?"

I didn't think that was a very nice thing for him to say, and he fired it at me so fast I could
hardly read it, so I simply replied, "Out fixing my batteries."

"Well," he said, "your batteries will need fixing when I get through with you. Now copy 3."

"Copy 3," means to take three copies of the order that is to follow, so I grabbed my manifold
order-book and stylus and prepared to copy. There is a rule printed in large bold type in all
railroad time-cards which says, "Despatchers, in sending train orders to operators, will accommodate
their speed to the abilities of the operators. In all cases they will send plainly and distinctly."
If the despatcher had sent according to my ability just then he would have sent that order
by train mail. But instead, from the very beginning, he fired it at me so fast, that before
I had started to take it he was away down in the body of it. I had written down only the order
number and date, when I broke and said, "G. A. To." That made him madder than ever and he went
at me again with increased violence the sounder seeming like the roll of a drum. I think I
broke him about ten times and finally he said, "For heaven's sake go wake up the day man. You're
nothing but a ham." Strangely enough I could take all of his nasty remarks without any trouble
while the order almost completely stumped me. However, I finally succeeded in putting it all
down, repeated it back to him, and received his "O. K."

When the train arrived the conductor and engineer came in the office and I gave them the order.
The conductor glanced at it for a moment and then said with a broad grin, "Say, kid, which
foot did you use in copying this?" My copy wasn't very clear, but finally he deciphered it,
and they both signed their names, the despatcher gave me the "complete," and they left. As
soon as the train, which was No. 22, a livestock express, had departed, I made my O. S. report,
and then heaved a big sigh of relief.

Scarcely had the tail-lights disappeared across the bridge and around the bend, when the despatcher
called again and said, "For God's sake stop that train."

I said, "I can't. She's gone."

"Well," he snapped back, "there's a good chance for a fine smash-up this night."

That scared me almost out of my wits, and I looked at my copy of the order. But it read all
right, and yet I felt mighty creepy. About thirty minutes afterwards, I heard a heavy step
on the platform and in a second the hind brakeman came tramping in, and cheerfully saluted
me with, "Well, I reckon you've raised h--l to-night. 21 and 22 are up against each other hard
about a mile and a half east of here. They met on a curve and engines, box-cars, livestock
and freight are piled up in fine shape."

"Any one killed?" I asked with a blanched face and sinking heart.

"Naw, no one is exactly killed, but one engineer and a fireman are pretty badly scalded, and
'Shorty' Jones, our head man, has a broken leg caused by jumping. You'd better tell the despatcher."

Visions of the penitentiary for criminal neglect danced before my disordered brain; all my
knowledge of telegraphy fled; I was weak in the knees, sick at heart, and as near a complete
wreck as a man could be. But something had to be done, so I finally told the despatcher that
Nos. 21 and 22 were in the ditch, and he snapped back, "D--n it, I've been expecting it, and
have ordered the wrecking outfit out from Watsego. You turn your red-light and hold everything
that comes along. In the meantime go wake up the day man. I want an operator there, and not a ham."

When the day man came in, half dressed, he said, "Well, what the devil is the matter?"

Speech had entirely left me by this time, so I simply pointed to the order, and the brakeman
told him the rest. Never in all my life have I spent such a night as that. The day man regaled
me with charming little incidents, about men he knew, who, for having been criminally negligent,
had been shot by infuriated engineers or had been sent up for ten years. He seemed to take
a fiendish delight in telling me these things and my discomfiture was great. I would have run
away if I hadn't been too weak. About seven o'clock in the morning, after a night of misery,
he patronizingly told me, that it wasn't my fault at all; the despatcher had given a "lap order,"
and that the blame was on him. Well! the reaction was as bad, almost, as the first feeling
of horror. I went home and after a light breakfast, retired to bed, but not to sleep, for every
time I would close my eyes, visions of wrecks, penitentiaries, dead men and ruined homes came
crowding upon my disordered brain.

