The Curate blushed violently. In his boyhood's days he had put halfpennies down the back of
his neck and jumped up and down until they percolated out in the region of his boots. He had
only just checked himself in the act of advising the Old Lady to get up and jump.

The Stockbroker was more practical, and soon consoled her. He was a season-ticket-holder, and
knew the collector. He would explain it to the man. "You'll be able to get the ticket again,
you see, when you--I mean, later on." The British love of euphemism had asserted itself. "And
then you can send it to the collector by post. You had better write down your name and address
to give him. I'll guarantee to the collector that it will be all right."

The Old Lady overwhelmed him with thanks. Slowly and laboriously she wrote the name and address
on the piece of paper in which the ticket was folded. All happened just as the Stockbroker
had foretold. The Ticket-collector was very well satisfied and very much amused.

TOM was waiting for her at the terminus, and took charge of her at once.

"Ah!" said the Stockbroker to the Curate, when she had gone, "that's my notion of a dear Old Lady."

"Everything about her was so characteristic," answered the Curate, admiringly.

Neither the Curate nor the Stockbroker had the advantage of hearing what the dear Old Lady
said to Tom that afternoon.

"It came off just beautifully, my boy. Not that I blame them, mind you,--how were they to know
that it was a ticket which I didn't give up last year, and that I hadn't even taken a ticket
at all to-day? No, I don't blame them. As for the address, I put the same address that was
on the label of the Curate's bag, only I altered The Rev. CHARLES MARLINGHURST to Mrs. MARLINGHURST.
And the Stockbroker guaranteed that I should send either the ticket or the money. So he'll
have to pay up! Oh, my word! My gracious word, what a treat!"

The dear Old Lady chuckled contentedly.

Tom also chuckled.

The Stockbroker subsequently relinquished to a great extent his habit of remarking upon his
own marvellous intuition, enabling him to read character at sight; the Curate preached a capital
sermon on the deceptiveness of man, and when he said man he meant woman.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A TOO-ENGAGING MAIDEN.

  I think you should know I've been put out of humour
    By something I hear very nearly each day.
  In a small town like ours, as you know, every rumour
    Gets about in a truly remarkable way.
  It is too much to hope for that women won't prattle,
    But I candidly tell you, I do feel enraged
  When I find that a part of their stock tittle-tattle
    Is that we--how I laugh at the thought!--are engaged.

  Though you don't even claim to be reckoned as pretty,
    You are not, I admit it, aggressively plain.
  You dress pretty well, and your talk, if not witty,
    As a rule doesn't give me much positive pain.
  You will one day be rich, for your prospects are "healthy,"
    Yet as Beauty and Riches do not make up Life,
  Why, were you as lovely as Venus, as wealthy
    As Croesus I wouldn't have you for my wife.

  Are you free altogether from blame in the matter--
    I'm resolved to be frank, so it's useless to frown--
  Have you not had a share in the mischievous chatter
    Which makes our "engagement" the talk of the town?
  When some eager, impertinent person hereafter
    Shall inquire of its truth, and shall ask, "Is it so?"
  Instead of implying assent by your laughter,
    Would you kindly oblige me by answering, "No"?

  I recognise freely your marvellous kindness
    In allowing your name to be linked with my own.
  Maybe it is only incurable blindness
    To your charms that compels me to let them alone.
  But if with reports I am still to be harried,
    I've thoroughly made up my mind what to do;
  Just to settle it all, I shall shortly be married,
    I shall shortly be married, but not--not to you.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WHO BREAKS PAYS."--"In some large restaurants," says the Daily Chronicle, "the girls engaged
have to pay for the breakages which occur in the course of carrying on a business in which
they are not partners." If the maxim at the head of this paragraph were strictly and impartially
enforced, such exacting employers would have to pay pretty smartly for certain "breakages"
which occur in the carrying on of a business in which they consider they have no concern--breakages,
to wit, of the girls' health, spirits, and, often, hearts!

       *       *       *       *       *

MODERN VERSION OF "WISE MEN OF THE EAST."--The Congress of Orientalists.