"I won't change much what you put down for clothes. It's possible that if you want to keep
yourself in good condition, and in particular to have shirts that will save washing, and to
look as a self-respecting lad likes to look on Sundays and work-days, you'll need even more
at first. But for tobacco you've put down two crowns, and that's too much. A man that has to
go into the stable and on the barn-floor ought not to smoke all day, not till after working
hours. You don't need to smoke to offset your hunger on my place, and if you could get out
of the habit altogether it would help you a lot. When a man doesn't smoke he always increases
his wages.

"The other ten crowns that you put down for amusements of all kinds I'll strike out, every
one. Yes, open your mouth and look at me like a stork at a new roof. If you want to cure yourself
and come to something, you've got to make some decent resolution at the outset--a resolution
not to squander a single penny of your pay in any way. If you resolve simply to go gallivanting
a little less often, to spend a little less than before, that's just throwing your money to
the winds. Once in the tavern, you're no longer master of yourself; the old companionship,
the old habit will carry you along, and you'll spend two or three weeks' pay again. Then the
after-thirst will come and you'll have to improve other evenings, and more and more you'll
lose all belief that you could ever help yourself up, you'll become slacker every day, and
you'll despair of yourself more and more. Besides, it's not so dreadful as the face you makeup.
See how many people never take a glass the year round, or go into a tavern. It's not only poor
day-laborers, who have all they can do to keep off the parish, but some of them are well-to-do,
even rich people, who've made it a habit never to spend anything uselessly, and they are not
only contented but can much less understand how a reasonable man can enjoy idling than you
are willing to understand me when I say a man can live without idling."

"I walked home once with a little man from the Langental market. He was surprised to find me
going home so early; usually he had to go home alone, he said. I answered that I hadn't had
anything more to do, and that I didn't care to sit in the tavern till evening; that it cost
money and time, and a man didn't know when and how he would finally get home. He felt the same
way, he said. He had begun with nothing and barely got along. For a long time he had supported
father and mother alone, but now he had his home and farm paid for and every year two cows
to sell, and not one of them under six hundred pounds. But he had never wasted a cent from
the very beginning. Only once, he remembered, in Burgdorf he had bought a roll for a halfpenny
without needing to--he could have stood it till he got home, and had a cheaper meal there.
Well, I told him I couldn't say as much; many a penny I had wasted. But one could overdo it,
too, for a man had to live. 'Yes, to be sure,' said he. 'I live too, and am happy. A farthing
saved gives me more satisfaction than another man gets from spending a crown. If I hadn't begun
that way I'd never have come to anything. A poor lad doesn't know enough to stop at the right
time when once he begins; when he's thrown away one penny it pulls a dozen along after it.
But you mustn't think I'm a miserable miser. Many a man has gone away empty-handed from the
big farm-houses and has got what he needed from me. I didn't forget who has blessed my work
and will soon demand an account from me.' At this I looked the little man up and down with
great respect; nobody could have told what was in him from his looks. Before we separated I
wanted to buy him a bottle of wine for his good advice. But he refused; he didn't need anything,
and whether he squandered my money or his would come to the same thing on that future account.
Since then I've never seen him; probably he's gone to his account by now, and if nobody had
a worse one than he many a man would be better off.

"So this is my opinion: every single farthing of your pay that you spend for such useless things
is ill spent. Stay at home, and you'll save not merely ten crowns, but a lot besides. All the
servants complain how many shoes and clothes they need, when they have to be out in wind and
weather; but do you know how most of their clothes are spoiled? By running around at night
in all kinds of weather, through thick and thin, and with all that goes on then. If you wear
your clothes twenty-four hours, you evidently use 'em up more than if it was only fourteen.
You don't go calling in wooden shoes, and do you burst out more shoe-nails by day, or by night
when you can't see the stones, the holes, or the ditches? And tell me, how do your Sunday clothes
look after you've stumbled around in them drunk, pulled each other about, and rolled in the
mud? How many a Sunday jacket has been torn to pieces, the trousers ruined, the hat lost!

"Many a man would surely need less for his clothes if he stayed at home; I say nothing about
the girls. And think, Uli, if you need ten crowns now for such useless habits, in ten years
you'll need twenty and in twenty forty, if you have them; for a habit like that doesn't stand
still it grows. And doesn't that lead straight as a string to your old ways?

"Finally, Uli, you get not only thirty crowns, but also many a penny in the way of tips when
a cow or a horse is sold, and the like. Use those when you must have an outing and can't give
up the tavern. Out of that money you can drink a glass or two at a review, if you like, or
put it by against your going into garrison; there'll be plenty for that. You've drawn a lot
of your pay; but if you'll believe me and follow my advice you can get out of debt this year;
and next year you can start laying by. And if you believe me, I don't say that I can pay you
only thirty crowns. When a servant attends to his business and doesn't have his mind set simply
on foolishness; when I can intrust something to him and things go the same whether I'm with
him or not, so that I don't have to come home every time in anxiety lest something has gone
wrong--then I won't haggle over a crown or two. Think of that, Uli: the better the habits,
the better the name, the better the pay."

At these words Uli's mouth opened and his nose lifted, and at last he said that that would
be fine, but it probably would never happen; he didn't think he could stand it.

"Well, try it a month and see how it goes; and don't think about gadding, drinking, and the
tavern, and you can do it all right."

CHAPTER V

NOW COMES THE DEVIL AND SOWS TARES AMONG THE GOOD SEED

[Uli's fellow-servants, on his master's farm and on the neighboring ones, attempt to drag him
back into his old ways, chiefly with ridicule and mockery. At times his resolution fails him,
but he masters himself again. Then a bad-hearted neighbor, who hates Uli's master, tries to
lure him away from his new faith. He praises Uli to the skies, tells him he is not properly
appreciated, and poisons his mind against his master. Uli grows more and more puffed-up, and
is about ready to be caught in the neighbor's snare; for the latter merely wishes to use him
for his own selfish ends.]

CHAPTER VI

HOW THE WEEDS WERE UPROOTED FROM ULI

[A Neighboring village, Brandywine, is to play a championship game of hurnuss (a kind of ball
game played in spring and autumn in the canton of Bern), with Uli's village, Potato Hollow.
There is deep enmity between the two places, and the contest is likely to be bitter. The losing
team must give the winners a full dinner, with plenty of wine. Uli's master urges him to refuse
the invitation to play on the team; but the malicious neighbor talks him over. Though the Potato
Hollowers use all their skill and cunning, even to cheating the umpire, they lose the game
by one point; they must set up the dinner, which ends in a free fight. A victory in this comforts
Potato Hollow somewhat. But two of the Brandywiners claim damages, and the local players are
afraid of severe judgment if it comes to trial, it being not the first offense. They agree
to a plan, devised by the malicious neighbor, to let the entire penalty fall on Uli's head,
so that they can go scot-free. Uli is to confess himself the guilty party, and in return for
this service the others, all wealthy farmers' sons, will reimburse him for all expenses and
give him a handsome bonus besides. Uli's master overhears his neighbor talking to Uli, decides
to interfere, and points out to him the noose into which he is running his head. He advises
Uli to demand a written promise, signed by all, that they will do what has been agreed upon.
Uli brings home the written promise and shows it to his master; it turns out to be nothing
but a certificate that Uli is the guilty party. Uli is in consternation; but the master promises
to help him out if he will abide by his word in the future. Accordingly, Johannes meets the
scheming neighbor and advises him to have the other players settle up and leave Uli in peace,
or else Uli may have occasion to show the paper to the governor. Uli hears nothing more about
the affair.]

CHAPTER VII

HOW THE MASTER KINDLES A FIRE FOR THE GOOD SEED

[The author points out the disastrous consequences of giving the servants on a farm only unheated
rooms to live in, and no access to the warm house; on Sundays they seek warmth in the public-houses
or elsewhere, and terrible immorality results. Uli feels the need of a warm room to sit in,
and the master invites him into the house. The maids are at first much put out, and the mistress
too; but the master upholds Uli, and gradually the new custom wins favor and results in a betterment
of all the servants.]

CHAPTER VIII

A SERVANT BECOMES PROSPEROUS AND SOON THE SPECULATORS APPEAR

[Uli becomes quite settled in steady habits, and soon has a nice little sum of money in hand.
But others get wind of it, and they borrow various sums of him, promising to pay back at a
certain time with interest. Soon Uli's money is all gone, but he exults in the thought of his
interest. When the time for payment comes the debtors make excuses; and as time goes on and
no money is forthcoming, Uli becomes anxious. At length the master notices his distress, finds
out the trouble, and helps him to recover most of what he had lent, admonishing him hereafter
to put his savings in the bank.]

CHAPTER IX

ULI GAINS PRESTIGE AND IMPRESSES GIRLS

[Uli's improvement proceeds steadily, and his self-respect with it. The two maids are greatly
impressed by him, and both set their caps for him. Stini, the elder, is very ugly and cross-grained,
but a good worker and very thrifty. Yrsi, on the other hand, is pretty and sweet-tempered,
but lazy and heedless, and wants a husband so as to avoid working. Jealously the two watch
each other's attempts to catch Uli, who is drawn now to Yrsi's prettiness, now to Stini's thrift.
Their jealousy finally becomes so furious that Uli begins to cool off, which only makes them
the more eager. Yrsi plans a master-stroke: she uncovers the liquid manure-pit, and Stini tumbles
into it. When she is finally hauled out, not without difficulty and amid the gibes of the other
servants, she falls like a tigress upon her rival, and the two roll in the dirt and become
such a reeking ball of filth that no one ventures to touch them to pull them apart. But Uli
has had enough of them both and is entirely cured, though not of his desire for marriage.]

CHAPTER X

HOW ULI SELLS A COW AND ALMOST GETS A WIFE

[Uli is sent to market with a cow, which he sells at a good profit. On the way home he encounters
the daughter of a neighbor, struggling with four little pigs. She begs his assistance, and
as they go along she gives him a glowing account of her father's prosperity and the size of
her dowry. She invites him into a tavern on the way, and they take some refreshment together.
Then she goes on about herself--how strong she is, and how much work she can do, and what a
good catch she would make. Uli cannot get in a word edgewise, but is mightily impressed by
her imposing vigor and her father's wealth, so that he goes home with his head in a whirl.
The master and his wife are pleased with Uli's success, and the master hands over to Uli the
profit he has made on the cow. Uli asks the master about the neighbor's Katie, saying that
he thinks she would have him. The master, however, strongly dissuades him, pointing out that
Katie might make a good field-hand, but not a good wife. She can make hay, but not soup; and
there is not so much wealth, for the farm is badly managed. The boys will get the land, and
the girls can take the leavings, which will not amount to very much. Besides, the girls are
spoiled and will not know what to do on a small farm, after being used to a big one; and if
Uli stays there he will simply be a servant without pay. Uli sees that the master is right,
and decides to think no more of the matter.]

CHAPTER XI

HOW DESIRES TAKE FORM IN A SERVANT, AND HOW A GOOD MASTER REALIZES THEM

[Uli gradually reaches something like perfection, and his savings amount to a handsome sum.
But the money seems to come too slowly, and he begins to feel impatient. The master is at first
vexed, but sees that he must either pay Uli what will satisfy him, or let him go. Uli suggests
buying or renting something, but the master will not hear to it; Uli has too little money for
that. Then one autumn the master goes to market and encounters there a cousin, Joggeli, who
has come, he says, to see Johannes. Joggeli tells his troubles: he and his wife are getting
old and decrepit, and can no longer look after their large farm as formerly. Their son Johannes
has become too stuck-up for the farm and now runs a tavern; their daughter is good for nothing,
incompetent and lazy. The overseer whom he has had for eleven years has been cheating him right
and left, and the other servants are hand in glove with him. Joggeli desires a new overseer,
a first-class man on whom he can depend; he would pay as high as a hundred crowns if he could
find what he wants. Johannes recommends Uli, and Joggeli comes to have a look at him. He does
his best to find some fault in him, but can discover none. Johannes and his wife are both reluctant
to let Uli go, but they think it is for his good, and so Uli is induced to hire out to Joggeli
for sixty crowns, two pairs of shoes, four shirts, and tips. All hearts are heavy as New Year's
approaches, when the change is to be made. The master himself plans to drive Uli over to his
new place.]

CHAPTER XII

HOW ULI LEAVES HIS OLD PLACE AND REACHES HIS NEW ONE

On the following morning the sleigh was made ready and the box fastened on it, and Uli had
to breakfast with the family in the living-room--coffee, cheese, and pancakes. When the horse
was harnessed Uli could scarcely go, and when at last the time came, and he stretched out his
hand to his mistress and said, "Good-bye, mother, and don't be angry with me," the tears rushed
to his eyes again; and the mistress had to lift her apron to her eyes, saying, "I don't know
what for; I only hope you'll get along well. But if you don't like it come back any time, the
sooner the better." The children would scarcely let him go; it seemed as if his heart would
break when the master finally told them to let loose, that they must start if they wanted to
get there today, and it wouldn't be the last time they were to see each other; but that now
there was no help for it. When they drove away the mistress kept wiping her eyes for a long
time, and had to comfort the children, who, it seemed, could not stop weeping and lamenting.

In silence the two men drove over the gleaming snow. "Steady!" the master had to say occasionally,
when the wild Blazer struck into a gallop, pulling the light sleigh along like the wind and
kicking the snow high in the air. "It distresses me," said Uli, "and more and more, the nearer
we get; it's so hard for me! I can't believe that I'm not running into misfortune; it seems
as if it was right ahead of me."

"That's natural," said the master, "and I wouldn't take that as a bad omen. Think: nearly ten
years ago, when you were a ne'er-do-well and I started you going right, how hard it was for
you to do better, and how little faith you had in the possibility that everything would turn
out right. But still it did, gradually. Your faith got stronger, and now you're a lad that
can be said to have won his battle. So don't be distressed; what you've got before you now
is all the easier for it, and the worst thing that can happen is that you'll come back to me
in a year. Just keep yourself straight and watch out, for my cousin is terribly suspicious;
but once he's taken your measure, you can put up with him. You'll have the worst time with
the other servants; go easy with them, little by little, and in kindness as long as you can;
then if that's no good, speak right up so that you'll know where you are--I wouldn't like a
year of that sort of thing myself."

It was a bright, clear January day as they drove through handsome fields, then between white
fences and glittering trees, toward Slough Farm. This property lay perhaps ten minutes' walk
from Uefligen, was over a hundred acres in size and very fruitful, but not all in one piece;
some fields and one grass-meadow lay at some distance. In wet years it might be swampy in spots,
but that could be managed. As they drove up, Joggeli came stumping on a stick around the house,
which stood on rather low ground, and said that he had been looking for them for a long time,
and had almost thought they weren't coming; he had become impatient. He shouted toward the
barns, which were built against the house, for some one to come and take the horse. No one
came. Uli himself had to unhitch and asked where to take Blazer. "Why, is nobody here?" Nobody
came. Then the old man went angrily to the stable and pulled the door open, and there was the
carter calmly currying horses. "Don't you hear when you're called?" cried Joggeli.

"I didn't hear anything."

"Then prick up your ears and come and take the horse."

He'd have to make room for it first, growled the fellow, and shot in among his horses like
a hawk in a pigeon-house, so that they dashed at their mangers and kicked, and Uli only by
constant "Whoas" and at risk of life got Blazer into the last stall. There he could find no
halter for a time.

"Should have brought one," was the carter's remark. When Uli went back to the sleigh and untied
his box, the wood-cutters were to help him carry it; but for a long time none stirred. Finally
they dispatched the boy, who let the handle go when they were on the stairs, so that Uli almost
tumbled down backward and only owed it to his strength that he did not. The room to which he
was shown was not bright, was unheated, and provided with two beds. He stood in it somewhat
depressed, until they called to him to come down and get something warm to eat. Outside, a
cheerful, pretty girl received him, nutbrown of hair and eyes, red and white as to cheeks,
with kissable lips, blinding white teeth, tall and strong, yet slender in build, with a serious
face behind which lurked both mischief and good nature.

And over the whole lay that familiar, but indescribable Something, that always testifies to
inward and outward purity, to a soul which hates the unclean and whose body therefore never
becomes unclean, or never seems so even in the dirtiest work. Freneli--this was the girl's
name--was a poor relation, who had never had a home and was always treated like Cinderella,
but always shook off the ashes--a girl who was never dimmed outwardly or inwardly, but met
God and men and every new day with fresh and merry laughter, and hence found a home everywhere
and made a place for herself in all hearts, however they might try to resist her; therefore
she was often dearly loved by her relatives even while they fancied they hated her, casting
her out because she was the offspring of an illicit intercourse between an aristocratic relative
and a day-laborer. Freneli had not opened the door. When Uli came out the brown eyes rapidly
swept over him, and quite seriously Freneli said, "I suppose you're the new overseer; they
want you to come down and get something warm to eat." There was no need, said Uli, they had
eaten something on the way.

None the less he followed the fleet girl to the living-room in silence. In it Joggeli and Johannes
were already sitting at the table, half hidden by smoking meat, both fresh and salted, sauerkraut
and dried pears. A plump, friendly old woman came to meet him, wiped her hand on her apron,
Held it out to him, and said, "Are you the new overseer? Well, well, if you're as good as you
are handsome, it'll be all right, I don't doubt. Sit down and eat, and don't be bashful; the
food's there to be eaten."

On the stove bench there sat yet another form, lean, with a white face and pale, lustreless
eyes; she acted as if she were paying no heed to anything, but had a pretty box before her,
and was winding blue silk from one ball to another. Joggeli was telling about the time he had
had with the last overseer, and what he had had to stand since then, and how it seemed to him
that it had been much worse than he could remember now. "All the torment such a fellow can
make you, and you can't string him up for it--it's not right, I swear. It didn't use to be
so; there was a time when they hanged everybody that stole as much as would pay for the rope.
That was something like, but all that's changed. It's enough to make you think the bad folks
have nothing but their own kind in the government, the way it lets 'em get away. Why, we don't
even hang the women that poison their husbands any more. Now, I'd like to know what's worse,
to break the law by killing somebody, or by letting him live; it looks to me as if one was
as bad as the other. And then it seems to me that if those who ought to maintain the law are
the ones to break it, they deserve no forgiveness of God or men. Then I think we ought to have
the right to put 'em where they belong, instead of having to pay 'em besides."

During this long speech of Joggeli's, which he fortunately delivered inside his four walls,
as otherwise it might easily have brought down upon him an action for high treason, his wife
kept constantly saying to Johannes and especially to Uli, "Take some more, won't you, that's
what it's for; or don't you like it? We give what we've got--it's bad enough; but at least
we don't grudge it to you. (Joggeli, do fill up the glasses; look, they're empty.) Drink, won't
you, there's more where that came from. Our son gave us the wine; they say it's good; he bought
it himself down in Italy; it actually cost fivepence halfpenny the quart, and not too full
a quart at that." When Uli did not wish to take any more the old woman still kept putting food
before him, stuck the fork into the largest pieces and then thrust them off on his plate with
her thumb, saying, "Ho, you're a fine fellow if you can't get that down too; such a big lad
must eat if he wants to keep his strength, and we're glad to give it to him; whoever wants
to work has got to eat. Take some more, do."

But at last Uli really could eat nothing more, took up his cap, prayed, and stood up to go.
"Stay awhile," said Joggeli; "where are you going? They'll look after your Blazer, I gave 'em
strict orders."

"Oh, I'd like to go out and look around a bit and see how I like it," said Uli.

"Go then; but come back when you get cold; you're not to work today, do you hear," said the mother.

"He'll have something to live through," said Joggeli, "they hate like poison to have him come,
and I think the carter would have liked to be overseer. But I don't care if they are against
each other. It's never good to have the servants on too good terms; it always comes out of
the master."

"Ho," said Johannes, "that's as you take it. If the servants are on one side and the master
on the other, then he has a hard time and can't do anything. But when the servants are all
against each other, and each one does his best to vex the others, and one won't help another--that's
bad for the master too; for after all in the end everything hits the master and his interests.
I think it's a true saying that peace prospers, discord destroys. I don't just like it here.
Nobody came to take the horse; nobody wanted to help Uli with his box; each one does as he
likes, and they don't fear anybody. Cousin, that won't be good. I must tell you, Uli won't
stay here under those conditions. If he's to be overseer and have the responsibility, he wants
order too; he won't let 'em all do as they please. Then there'll be a fuss; it will all come
back on him, and if you don't back him up he'll run off. Let me say frankly: I told him that
if he couldn't stand it here any longer, he was to come back to me, that I'd always have room
for him. We're sorry enough to lose him, and the wife cried when I went off with him, as if
it was her own child."

That seemed very lovely to the old mother and she wiped her own eyes just from hearing about
it, and said, "Have no fear, Cousin Johannes, he shan't have a hard time with us; we know how
to look after him, too. I am sure that if we've only found some one at last that we can trust
and that takes an interest in things, no pay will seem too high."

"Cousin," said Johannes, "pay isn't everything; you must back Uli up and you must trust him.
We've treated him almost like our own child, and he'd feel very strange if he was to be nothing
but a servant."

"Oh," said the mother, "don't be anxious, Johannes, we'll do all we can. When we make coffee
for ourselves in between meals, it can't be but he shall have a cup of it. And we have our
piece of meat every day, but the servants only on Sunday. What would become of us if we gave
'em meat every day? But if you think best we'll see to it that Uli gets a piece of meat every
now and then."

"Cousin," said Johannes, "that's not the thing, and Uli doesn't want it either, for it only
makes the others envious. No matter how you do it, they find it out just the same. We had a
maid once that used to smell of all the pots when she came in from the field, and she always
guessed when coffee had been given to the other servants; and then she used to sulk for a week,
so that you could hardly stand it. No, you must have confidence in him and help him; then it'll
be all right."

Joggeli did not want the conversation to continue and took Johannes around through stables
and granary, as long as it was light. He asked for advice and got it, but Johannes would praise
nothing. Of the calves he said that they ought to be looked to, for they had lice; and of the
sheep that they were too cramped for room, that they would squeeze each other and the lambs
would be ruined. For the rest, the inspection was made in silence. On the way back they found
Uli standing gloomily in the front shed and took him in with them; but he remained down-cast
the whole evening--indeed on the verge of tears whenever any one spoke to him.

On the following morning Johannes made ready for his return, after having had to eat beyond
his capacity and drink a nip of brandy on top of it, although he said he never did so in the
morning. Uli almost clung to his coat like a child that fears its father will run away from
it; and when he started to give him his hand, Uli said he would drive a piece with him if he
might; he didn't know when he should see him again.

"And how do you like it?" asked Johannes, as soon as they were away from the house.

"Oh, master, I can't tell you how I feel. I've been in a lot of places, but I never saw anything
like that. So help me God, there's no order in the place anywhere. The liquid manure runs into
the stable; they've never cleaned out the dung properly, the horses' hind feet are higher than
the forefeet; half the grain is in the straw; the loft is like a pig-sty; the tools aren't
fit to be seen. The men all look at me as if they'd like to eat me. Either they give me no
answer, or they give me impudent ones, so that I feel as if I'd have to punch their heads."

"Be patient and calm yourself," said Johannes. "Begin slowly, take the helm little by little,
do all you can yourself, speak pleasantly, and try to bring 'em around gradually or at least
get some on your side. Then wait awhile and see how things go, until you're familiar with everything,
so that you can tell the best way to take hold. It's no good to rush right in at the start;
usually one doesn't know his business well enough and takes hold of it at the wrong end. Then
when you know how you stand, and if things don't get any better, sail into 'em good and proper,
let 'em know where they stand with you, and force one or two of 'em to leave; you'll see an
improvement right away. And be of good cheer; you're no slave, and you can go when you will.
But it's a good apprenticeship for you, and the more a young man has to stand the better for
him. You can learn a lot--even to be master, and that takes more skill than you think. But
I keep feeling that you can make your fortune at it and make a proper man of yourself. Get
on good terms with the women-folk, but not so as to make the old man suspicious; if you can
get on their good side, you've won a lot. But if they keep inviting you away from your work
to drink coffee with 'em, don't go; stay with the others. And always be the first one in the
work; then they'll have to give in at last, willing or not."

This put Uli on his feet. He found new courage; but still be could hardly leave the master.
A number of things came into his mind, about which he ought to ask; it seemed as if he knew
nothing. He asked about the sowing, and how he had best do this or that; whether this plant
grew here, and how that one should be raised. There was no end to his questions, until finally
Johannes stopped at an inn, drank another bottle with him, and then almost drove him off home.

Encouraged, Uli finally set off, and now for the first time felt his importance to the fullest
extent. He was somebody, and his eyes saw quite differently, as he now set foot on the farm
that was to get its rightful attention from him alone. With quite a different step he approached
the house where he was, in a sense, to govern, and where they were waiting for him as a rebellious
regiment awaits its new colonel.

CHAPTER XIII

HOW ULI INSTALS HIMSELF AS OVERSEER

Calmly, with resolution taken, he joined the workers; it was afternoon, shortly after dinner.
They were threshing by sixes. The milker and carter were preparing fodder; these he joined
and helped. They did not need him, they said, and could do it alone.--He couldn't do anything
on the threshing-floor, he said, until they started to clear up, and so today he would help
them prepare fodder and manure. They grumbled; but he took hold and with his wonted adroitness
mixed the fodder and shook the dust from it, and so silently forced the others to work better
than usual. Below in the passage he shook out the fodder again, and made the fodder piles so
fine and even along the walls, sweeping up with the broom the path between the horse-fodder
and the cow-fodder, that it was a pleasure to see him. The milker said that if they did it
that way every day, they couldn't prepare in two days what the stock would eat in one. That
depended, said Uli, how one was accustomed to prepare, and according to how the stock treated
the fodder.

When they went at the manure he had his troubles with the milker, who wanted to take only the
coarsest stuff off the top, as it were the cream from the milk. It was nice and warm outside,
said Uli, and the stock wouldn't get cold; they would work thoroughly this time. And indeed
it was necessary, for there was old stuff left that almost required the mattock before they
could get to the stone floor of the stable. But there was no time left to dig out between the
stones. They had to dip out the manure-pit, for the liquid was rising and almost reached the
back of the stable; and only with difficulty could he get them to carry what they clipped out
into the courtyard and not pour it into the road. When the manure was outside no one wanted
to spread it, and the answer he got to his question was that they had no time today; they must
soon fodder; it would be time enough in the morning.--It could easily be done during the foddering,
said Uli, and the dung must be spread while still warm, especially in winter. Once frozen,
it wouldn't settle any more and one would get no manure from it. With that he went at it himself,
and the two men calmly let him work and made fun of him behind the stable-doors and in the
fodder-passage.

In the house they had long since begun to wonder that the new overseer did not come home, and
to fear that he might have driven off and away. Joggeli had sat down at the window from which
he could see the road, almost looked his eyes out, and began to scold: he hadn't thought Johannes
was as bad as that, and here he was his cousin, too, and such a trick he wouldn't play on the
merest stranger; but nowadays one couldn't place reliance upon anybody, not even one's own
children.

While he was in his best vein, Freneli came in and said, "You can look a long time; the new
man's out there spreading the manure they've taken out; he probably thinks it's better not
to let it pile up. If nobody else will do it he probably thinks he must do it himself."

"Why doesn't he show himself when he comes home?" said Joggeli; and "Good gracious, why doesn't
he come to supper?" said the mother. "Go and tell him to come in at once, we're keeping something
warm for him."

"Wait," said Joggeli, "I'll go out myself and see how he's doing it and what's been done."

"But make him come," said the mother; "I think he must have got good and hungry."

Joggeli went out and saw how Uli was carefully spreading the manure and thoroughly treading
it down; that pleased him. He wanted to look for the milker and the carter, to show them how
Uli was doing it and to tell them to do it so in the future; he looked into the fodder-passage
and could not take his eyes from it for a long time, as he saw the handsome, round, appetizing
fodder-piles and the clean path between them. He looked into the stable, and as he saw the
cows standing comfortably in clean straw and no longer on old manure he too felt better, and
so he now went to Uli and told him that it had not really been the intention that he should
do all the dirty work himself; that was other people's business. He had had the time for it,
said Uli; there was no place for him in the threshing, and so he had done this in order to
show how he wanted it done in the future. Joggeli wanted to bid him come in; but Uli said he
would first like to watch the cleaning up after the threshing; he wanted to see how they did
it. There he saw that the men simply thought of getting through quickly. The grain was poorly
threshed; a number of ears could still be seen; it was winnowed still worse. The grain in the
bin was not clean, so that he felt like emptying it and beginning the work over; however, he
controlled himself and thought he would do it otherwise tomorrow.--But in the house Joggeli
was saying that he liked the new man, for he knew his business; but he hoped he wouldn't boss
too much--he didn't like that. You couldn't do things in all places just alike, and by and
by he wouldn't have any orders to give himself.

After supper Uli came to the master and asked him what was to be done during the winter; it
seemed to him that the work should be so arranged that one should be all ready for the new
work when the spring came.

Yes, said Joggeli, that might be good; but one couldn't do everything all at once; things had
to take their time. The threshing would last about three weeks more; then they could begin
to cut wood, and by the time they were through with that the spring would just about be at hand.

If he might say so, said Uli, it seemed to him that they ought to bring in the wood now. It
was fine weather and the road good, so it would be twice as easy. In February the weather was
generally bad and the ground soft; then you couldn't budge anything and ruined all the wagons.

That wouldn't do very well, thought Joggeli; it was not customary to begin threshing in February.

He hadn't meant that, said Uli. They should continue threshing. He and one more would cut down
and get ready all the wood the carter could bring home, and until a load was ready the carter
could help them in the woods.

Then they couldn't thresh by sixes any more, said Joggeli, if he took a man from the threshing,
and when they all cut wood together they could do a lot in a short time.

"Well," said Uli, "as you will; but I thought this way: couldn't the milker help in the threshing
during the morning and the afternoon, too, if the others help with the manure and the foddering
at noon? And sometimes two can do more in the woods than a whole gang, when nobody wants to
take hold."

"Yes," said Joggeli, "sometimes it goes that way; but let's let the wood go: the threshing's
more pressing now."--

"As you will," said Uli, and went somewhat heavy-hearted to bed.

"Well, you are the queerest man," said the old woman to her husband. "I liked what Uli said
awfully well. It would have been to our advantage; and if those two fine gentlemen, the carter
and the milker, don't have time to be drying their noses in the sun all day, it won't hurt
'em a bit, the scamps. Uli will be worth nothing to you, if you go on that way."

"But I won't take orders from a servant. If I let him do that he'd think nobody but he was
to give orders. You've got to show 'em right from the start how you want to have things." grumbled
Joggeli.

"Yes, you're the right one to show 'em; you spoil the good ones, and the bad ones you're afraid
of and let 'em do as they please--that's your way," said his wife. "It's always been that way,
and it isn't going to be any different now."

The next morning Uli told the mistress that one maid was superfluous on the threshing-floor,
and she might keep for the house whichever she wanted. And Uli threshed through to the floor,
and held his flail so that it touched his neighbor's and forced him to thresh the whole length
of the grain to the wall; and when one section was done, the secondary tasks were quickly finished
and they threshed again; and all this Uli effected not by words, but, by the rapidity of his
own work. In the house they remarked that it seemed as if they must have different flails for
the threshing; these sounded quite different, and as if they went through to the floor. The
maid who was released told Freneli how they were going to do for this fellow; he needn't think
that he was going to start a new system, for they weren't going to let themselves be tormented
by such a fellow. She was sorry for him; he was well-mannered and he certainly could work,
she must admit. Everything he put his hands to went well. While they were threshing the carter
had ridden off, ostensibly to the blacksmith. The milker had gone off with the cow, but without
telling his errand. It was noon before either came back, and neither had worked a stroke.

After dinner Uli helped peel the remaining potatoes, as is customary in well-ordered households
if time permits; the others ran out, scarcely taking time to pray. When Uli came out there
was an uproar in the barn; two couples were wrestling on the straw of the last threshing, while
the others looked on. He called to the milker to come quickly and take out the calves and look
to them; probably they needed to be shorn and salved. The milker said that wasn't Uli's business;
nobody was to touch his calves; they would be all right for a long while. And the carter stepped
up to Uli, crying, "Shall we have a try at each other--if you dare?" Uli's blood boiled, for
he saw that it was a put-up job; yet he could not well refuse. Sooner or later, he well knew,
he would have to stand up to them and show his mettle. And so he said to himself, let it be
now; then they would have his measure.

"Ho, if you want to try it, I'm willing," he replied, and twice running he flung the Carter
on his back so that the floor cracked. Then the milker said he would like to try too; to be
sure, it was scarcely worth while to try falls with a walking-stick, with legs like pipe-stems
and calves like fly-specks. With his brown hairy arms he grasped Uli as if he would pull him
apart like an old rag. But Uli held his ground and the milker made no headway. He grew more
and more angry, took hold with ever greater venom, spared neither arms nor legs, and butted
with his head like an animal, until at last Uli had enough of it, collected all his strength,
and gave him such a swing that he flew over the grain-pile into the middle of the floor and
fell on the further side; there he lay with all fours in the air, and for a long time did not
know where he was.

As if by chance Freneli had brought food for the hogs and had seen Uli's victory. In the house
she told her godmother that she had seen something that tickled her. They had wanted to give
Uli a beating; he had had to wrestle with them, but he was a match for them all. He had thrown
the hairy milker on his back as if he had never stood up. She was glad that he could manage
them all; then they would be afraid of him and respect him. But Uli, interrupted in his examination
of the calves, seized a flail and merely told the milker that he had no time for the calves
today; they would look to them another day. The cleaning of the grain took more time than usual,
and yet they were through quicker and the grain was better cleaned; but they had exerted themselves
more, too, and in consequence had felt the cold less. When Uli told the master how much grain
he had obtained, the latter said that they had never done so much this year and yet today they
had been threshing the fallen grain.

In the evening, as they sat at table, the master came and said he thought it would be convenient
to cut wood now; the horses weren't needed, the weather was fine, and it seemed to him that
the threshing and the wood-cutting could go on together if properly arranged. The carter said
the horses' hoofs were not sharpened; and another said that they couldn't go on threshing by
sixes, but at most by fours, and would never get done. Uli said nothing.

Finally, when Joggeli had no further answers to give, and was out-talked by the servants, he
said to Uli, "Well, what do you think?"

"If the master orders it's got to be done," answered Uli. "Hans, the carter, and I will bring
the wood in, and if the milker helps in the threshing and the others help him with fodder and
manure, the threshing won't suffer." "All right, do it so," said Joggeli, and went out.

Now the storm broke over Uli's head, first in single peals, then in whole batteries of thunder.
The carter swore he wouldn't go into the woods; the milker swore he wouldn't touch a flail;
the others swore they wouldn't thresh by fours. They wouldn't be howled at; annoyed; they weren't
dogs; they knew what was customary, etc. But they knew where all this came from, and he had
better look out for himself if he was going to have the evening bells ring at six here (in
the winter three o'clock is the hour, six in summer). Many a fellow had come along like a district
governor, and then had had to make tracks like a beaten hound. It was a bad sort of fellow
who got his fellow-servants into trouble in order to put the master's eyes out. But they would
soon give such a fellow enough of it. Uli said little in reply, only that the master's orders
had to be carried out. The master had ordered, not he, and if none of them got off worse than
he they ought to thank God for it. He wasn't going to torment anybody, but he wouldn't be tormented
either; he had no cause to fear any of them. Then he told the mistress to be kind enough to
put up lunch for three, for they would scarcely come back from the woods to dinner.

The next morning they went out into the woods. Much as the carter growled and cursed, he had
to go along. The milker would not thresh and the master did not appear. Then the mistress plucked
up courage and went out and said that she thought he needn't be too high and mighty to thresh;
better folks than he had threshed before now. They couldn't afford to pay a milker who wanted
to dry his teeth in the sun all the morning. So the wood was brought in, they scarcely knew
how; and in February weather and roads were so bad that they would have had a hard time with
the wood.

Hard as Uli had worked outside (and he had a bad time of it, for he always took the heavy end,
wishing to be master not only in giving orders, but in working too), still in the evening he
always helped to prepare whatever vegetables the mistress ordered, no matter what they were.
He never shirked and he prevented the others from doing so; the more they helped each other,
he said, the sooner they would get done, and if they wanted food it was only reasonable that
they should help get it ready. He himself always helped wherever he could: when one of the
maids had washed a basket of potatoes and did not like to carry it alone because she would
get all wet, he would help her carry it himself, or would order the boy (half child, half servant)
to do so; and when the latter at first refused, or failed to come at his word, he punished
him until the boy learned to obey. It was not right, he said, for one servant to refuse to
help another take care of his clothes, or for servants to plague each other; that was just
wantonly making service worse than it needed to be. But it was long before they grasped this,
for a peculiar atmosphere existed there. The men teased the maids wherever they could; nowhere
was there any mutual assistance. When one of the men was asked to lend a hand he scoffed and
cursed and would not budge; even the mistress had to endure this, and when she complained to
Joggeli he simply said she was always complaining. He didn't hire servants to help the women-folk;
they had something else to do beside hauling flowers around.

The behavior of Uli, who was not accustomed to such discord in a house, attracted attention
and brought down upon him the bitter mockery and scorn of the men, which was aggravated intolerably
by other causes. On the very first Saturday the milker refused, out of sheer wilfulness, to
attend to the manure, but let it go till Sunday morning. This Uli would not permit; there was
absolutely no reason for putting it off, and it would keep them from cleaning up around the
house on Saturday, as was customary. Besides, the commandment said men shouldn't work on Sunday
"thou nor thy man-servant nor thy maid-servant." Least of all was it becoming to leave the
dirtiest tasks for Sunday. The milker said, "Sunday fiddlesticks! What do I care about Sunday?
I won't do it today."

Uli's blood boiled hotly; but he composed himself and said merely, "Well then, I will."

The master, who had heard the clamor, went into the house, grumbling to himself, "If only Uli
wouldn't insist on bossing and starting new customs; I don't like that. Folks have manured
on Sunday time out of mind, and were satisfied with it; it would have been good enough for
him too."

CHAPTER XIV

THE FIRST SUNDAY IN THE NEW PLACE

[Uli insists on going to church, but can get no one to accompany him, and all but Freneli ridicule
him. The people at church recognize in Uli the new overseer, and wonder how long he will stay;
but to his face they tell him to make what profit he can out of Joggeli. He comes home to new
ridicule but, facing it down, retires to his cold room to read his Bible. A message is brought
from the others to come and join them. They tell him that each new overseer is expected to
treat the others to brandy or wine, and all plan to go to the tavern after supper. Freneli
is surprised that he is going with them, and cautions him to be on his guard. At the tavern
all begin to flatter him at once, but Uli is mindful of what he heard at church and of Freneli's
caution. One by one the others all leave, except one man; he offers to take Uli a-courting.
Uli half yields, and is led into a dark alley where the others set upon him. He seizes a cudgel
from one of them, lays about him with a will, flings one of them into a court, and vanishes,
leaving the discomfited assailants to nurse their wounds and trail along home, after vainly
waiting for him to appear.]

CHAPTER XV

ULI GAINS A PLACE IN HOUSE AND FIELD, AND EVEN IN SOME HEARTS

[Uli requests the mistress to be allowed to sit in the house on Sunday afternoons. Freneli,
Joggeli, and especially Elsie are put out, the latter because she is wont to spread out her
finery on the table and Uli is in her way. But Uli wins her over by admiring the finery, and
Elsie begins to set her cap for him. Uli cleans up about the house, and effects many an improvement
in yard and field. This vexes Joggeli, and still more so when Uli forces him to plan the spring
work. Joggeli makes Uli's life a burden, blows hot and cold, refuses to give orders to the
servants, and censures Uli to the others for taking the reins in his hands.]

CHAPTER XVI

ULI GETS NEW COWS AND NEW SERVANTS

[Uli is sent to market to sell two cows and bring back two others. On the way a man catches
up with him and buys his cows at a higher price than Uli expected to get. At the market he
makes two excellent purchases, and comes away with more money than he had before. He is tempted
to conceal this profit from the master, and keep it for himself, but better counsels prevail.
Joggeli bids him share the profit with the milker, and reluctantly pays Uli's expenses out
of his own pocket. He boasts to his wife that he has tested Uli by sending a man to him to
buy the old cows; she upbraids him for this underhandedness. Uli forces Joggeli to be the first
farmer with his haying, but cannot get him to supply decent tools. The other servants are lazy
and slack--the milker and carter especially so. Although Uli urges and drives him in vain,
Joggeli takes malicious enjoyment in his distress. At last Uli loses all patience and demands
the instant dismissal of the carter and the milker, his own departure being the alternative.
Joggeli is with difficulty persuaded to take this step; but once taken, the good results are
immediate and permanent. The carter and the milker, at first expecting to be taken back in
a day or two, finally beg for their old places; but Uli is firm. New men are engaged, with
instructions to take their orders from Uli.]

CHAPTER XVII

HOW FATHER AND SON OPERATE ON A SERVANT

[Things now run like a newly oiled machine; but Joggeli is discontented and constantly seeks
cause for complaint against Uli. He arranges with the miller to have the latter attempt to
bribe Uli, to see what he will do. Uli dresses down the miller, and the latter, to clear himself,
betrays the instigator of the plan. Uli at once begins to pack up, while the mistress, informed
by the miller, chides her husband. With great difficulty the latter is induced to beg Uli's
pardon and assure him that the offense will not be repeated. The harvest goes on this year
as never before. Joggeli's son Johannes comes with his wife Trinette and three children for
the harvest festival. Trinette is the same kind of fool as Elsie; they think of nothing but
their finery, their ailments, and their supposedly fine manners. This annual visit is always
a torment. Trinette plays the grand lady, the children are a constant nuisance, and the whole
house is in an uproar. Johannes takes a fancy to Uli, and offers him any amount of pay to take
a place with him. Freneli overhears the conversation and tells the mistress, who is enraged
with Johannes. Joggeli bursts out into a tirade against Freneli.]

CHAPTER XVIII

HOW A GOOD MOTHER STRAIGHTENS OUT THE CROOKED, AND TURNS EVIL INTO GOOD

[Joggeli sows in Uli's mind suspicion of Freneli, intimating that she is injuring him behind
his back. Uli is deeply wounded, and shows it; but neither Freneli nor her aunt knows the reason,
and Joggeli is silent. Finally the mistress asks Uli, discovers the trouble, and undeceives
him as to Freneli; Joggeli wonders at the restored peace, but dares not ask about it.]

CHAPTER XIX

A DAUGHTER APPEARS AND WOULD EDUCATE ULI

[The other servants had been wondering at Uli's good behavior, and, not being able to understand
it from their viewpoint, had sought for the explanation in self-interest; for Elsie had begun
to be very silly with Uli. As time goes on, this becomes more and more noticeable, and Uli
him self is not a little put out by it. Elsie proposes to visit her brother, and Uli is to
drive her. On the open road, where there is none to see, she bids him sit beside her; when
they come to a village she sends him back to the front seat, and it is "My servant" this and
"My servant" that. Uli is offended, but Elsie excuses herself and finally weeps until Uli yields
and joins her again. She coaxes him and flirts with him all the way. Johannes welcomes them
cordially enough. The "visit," however, consists principally in a clothing contest between
Elsie and Trinette, from which the latter, by a shrewd stroke, issues victorious, and thus
accelerates Elsie's discomfited departure. Johannes's mismanagement is mercilessly exposed,
and his ultimate ruin clearly foreshadowed. On the homeward road Elsie waxes affectionate,
and spends most of the time after nightfall in kissing Uli, who, however, is indifferent to
her advances.]

CHAPTER XX

ULI HAS THOUGHTS AND BECOMES A CALCULATOR

So the trip went off safely and innocently, but not without consequences. Little by little
the thought began to turn Uli's head that he could easily make himself happy by getting a rich
wife; for, unreasonable as it is, in our ordinary speech to get happiness and to get wealth
are synonymous. So often we hear it said, "He's lucky; he made a fine marriage and got over
ten thousand gulden with his wife. Of course she's a fool and gives him lots of trouble; but
what's the odds if you've got money? Money's all that counts." Uli was not free from this general
and yet so baseless notion; for did he not wish to become a rich man himself? When he thought
of Elsie's utterances, which, to be sure, were made in the rain and mist, it seemed more and
more probable to him that she would take him if he tried hard to get her. The brother had treated
him so amicably and shown him so much confidence that he probably would really not greatly
oppose it; if Elsie was to marry somebody, Uli might suit better than many another. The parents,
he thought, wouldn't like it at first, and would make a fuss; but if Elsie managed it and the
thing was done, he wasn't afraid of not winning them over. The thought of one day living on
Slough Farm and being his own master there, was infinitely pleasant to him. In twenty years,
he sometimes calculated, he would easily double his wealth; he would show the whole district
what farming could bring in. One plan after the other rose before him--how to go about it,
all the things he would do, what the pastor would say when he published the banns, what the
people in his home district would say when some day he would come along with his own horse
and wagon and it would be noised around that he had six horses in his stable and ten of the
finest cows. To be sure, when he saw Elsie lolling around lazily there were blots on his calculation.
He realized that she was no housekeeper, and was moreover queer and extravagant. The last fault
she might overcome, he thought, if she had a husband. He could afford to have servants then;
other folks got along without the wife doing anything, and with such wealth it wouldn't matter
much. There was something the matter with every woman; he'd never heard of any that was so
perfect that one wouldn't wish for anything else. Rich, rich! That was the thing. And still,
when he saw Elsie, his calculations came to a sudden stop. This fading, languishing, sleepy
thing seemed too unpalatable to him. When she touched him with her clammy hands he shuddered;
he felt as if he must wipe the spot she had touched. And then when he heard her talk, so affected
and stupid, it almost drove him out of the room, and he had to reflect: No, you can't stand
living with this woman; every word she said would shame you. But when he was away from Elsie
again he saw the handsome farm, heard the money clink, imagined himself looked up to, and he
felt as if Elsie were not so bad after all; so he would gradually persuade himself that perhaps
she was cleverer than she seemed, and, if she loved a man and he talked sensibly to her, something
might yet be done with her, and with a proper man she might yet turn out a very sensible woman.

All this merely went on in Uli's head; but murder will out. The trip had made Uli and Elsie
more familiar; they used a different tone in speaking to each other, Elsie regarded him with
the peculiar glance of a certain understanding. Uli, to be sure, tried to avoid her eyes, especially
when they were in sight of Freneli; for just as Elsie's riches allured him more strongly every
day, so Freneli seemed to him ever handier and prettier. The best thing, he often thought,
would be to have Freneli stay with them and manage the household. But Elsie ran after Uli more
than ever, and when on a Sunday afternoon she was alone with him for an instant in the living-room,
she would not rest until they got to kissing. She would have given anything to take another
drive with him; but she did not know where to go, and when they went to market her father and
mother went along. Just the same, if Uli had had bad intentions and had wanted to secure a
marriage by an evil road--of which there are cases enough with men worse than Uli--Elsie would
have given plenty of opportunity, nor would she have done anything to shield herself. "Uli,
don't be so timid!" she would perhaps have said. But Uli was honest and desired no evil; so
he shunned such opportunities, and often avoided the chances Elsie gave him, much preferring
to deserve her than to seduce her. He worked all the harder, took especial pains with every
detail, and tried to earn the commendation that, if he were not rich already, he could not
fail to become so with such aptitude; this, he thought, would have as much weight with the
parents as many thousand francs. He did not think of that terrible saying--"Only a servant."
But, his fellow-servants had eyes in their heads, too, and long before Uli had begun to think
of anything, they had noticed Elsie's indiscreet conduct and had teased Uli about it. More
and more they ascribed his activity to the intention of becoming son-in-law. The change since
the trip was not hidden from them. They invented divers accounts of what had happened, taunted
Uli to his face and calumniated him behind his back. Whenever he required anything new of them
they interpreted it to mean that he wanted to get himself valued at their expense; therefore
they took it ill, became unruly, and said they would take him down a peg. They lay in wait
for Uli and Elsie wherever they could, tried to disturb or to witness their accidental or intentional
meetings, and to play all kinds of tricks on them; and they would have dearly loved to uncover
some serious scandal, but Uli gave them no opportunity. With him the scale still hung in the
balance. At times Elsie and his life on Slough Farm became so bitter to him that he would have
liked to be a hundred miles away. But the girl grew more and more in love with him, bought
him gifts at every opportunity, gave him more than he wanted to accept, and acted in such a
silly way with him that it finally attracted her parents' attention. Joggeli grumbled: there
you had it now; now you could see the scheme Uli was working; but he would put a spoke in his
wheel. At the same time he did nothing; and in secret he thought that his son, who so often
tricked his father, would be served just right if Elsie played the fool and disgraced him by
having to marry a servant.

But the mother took it very much to heart and talked to Elsie: she should not be so silly with
Uli; she must think what folks would say and how they would gossip about her. It was truly
not seemly for a rich girl to treat a servant like a sweetheart. No, she had nothing against
Uli, but still he was only a servant, and Elsie surely didn't want to marry a servant.

Then Elsie blubbered: everything she did was wrong; in God's name, they were always complaining
of her; now they accused her of being too stuck up, now of making herself too cheap; when she
said a kind word to a servant, folks made such a to-do that it couldn't be worse if she had
lost her good name; nobody wanted her to have any pleasure, and everybody was down on her;
it would be best for her if she could die soon. And Elsie blubbered more and more vehemently,
until she was all out of breath, and her mother had to undo her bodice hastily, thinking in
all seriousness that Elsie was going to die. Then the good mother held her peace again; for
she did not want to scold Elsie to death. She merely complained at times to Freneli that she
didn't know what to do. If she scolded, Elsie was capable of doing something foolish; but if
she let things go and something really did happen, then she would get the blame for everything,
and people would ask why hadn't she done something in time. Of Uli she couldn't complain; he
was acting very sensibly, and she even thought the whole thing was disagreeable to him. And
she would be sorry to send him off packing without notice, before they had more grounds of
complaint; for, if she did, Joggeli would be the first to accuse her of dismissing through
groundless anxiety the best servant they had ever had. But that was the way he always did--when
she wanted him to speak he would keep still, and when she wanted him to keep still he would
always meddle. She, Freneli, should keep her eyes open, and if she saw anything out of the
way she was to tell her. But from Freneli the old woman got little comfort; she acted as if
the whole affair were none of her business. Elsie could not refrain from talking to Freneli
about Uli--how fine and handsome he was, and how she wouldn't take her oath that she wouldn't
marry him yet; if her people angered her by refusing to do what she wanted, they'd just see
what she'd do. She wouldn't take long to think about it, and she'd only have to say the word
and Uli would go and have the banns published. Then, when Freneli would say little to all this,
Elsie would accuse her of being jealous. Or when Freneli would talk to her and tell her not
to make a fool of Uli, whom she didn't really want, or would tell her not to grieve her parents
in this way, Elsie would accuse her of wanting Uli herself and of trying to entice her away
from him in order to climb up in the world; but Uli wouldn't take such a penniless pauper as
she--he was too shrewd for that. She needn't imagine that she could get a husband so easily;
the poorest servant would think twice before he'd take a poor girl, and twice again before
he'd take a bastard--that was the greatest disgrace there was.

Although Freneli felt such speeches deeply she would give no sign of it, would neither weep
nor scold, but say at most, "Elsie, that you're not a bastard too isn't your fault; and that
you haven't one by now isn't your fault either."

The hardest thing for Freneli was to regulate her conduct toward Uli. The more Elsie's money
went to his head, the more he felt himself drawn to Freneli; he could not bear to have her
give him short answers or to seem angry with him, and tried in every way to pacify her and
win her favor. He often fled from Elsie, and never sought her out; he never fled from Freneli,
but often looked for her; while Freneli fled from him and Elsie ran after him. Freneli wanted
to be short and dry with Uli, and still, with the best intentions, she often could not but
be friendly with the friendly lad, and at times forgot herself and would spend two or three
minutes chatting and laughing with him. When Elsie happened to see this there were terrible
scenes. First she would make the wildest accusations against Freneli, until she could talk
no more and was completely out of breath; when in this state she would sometimes rush at her,
and would have tried to beat her if she had had the strength. Then she would pitch into Uli;
a hundred times he would have to hear that he was a filthy fellow and only a servant; that
she saw what she had to expect if she was such a fool as folks thought; but, thank heaven,
there was still time enough, and she wouldn't be such a fool as to bring her money to a man
who she was afraid would waste it all on women. Then she would begin to bawl at such false
statements, and say she was going to die either by hanging or shooting herself. Often she would
become reconciled in the midst of her tears, and Uli had to promise not to run after others
any more, and not to say another good word to that old Freneli, who just wanted to lead him
on and astray. Again, the quarrel would continue and Elsie would sulk. Then Uli would think:
a girl that was so jealous, and so often told him he was a servant, and bawled and sulked so
much, wouldn't be the most agreeable kind of wife; it would be hard living with her, and it
would be better if he drove the whole thing out of his mind. But as soon as he became indifferent
to her sulks, Elsie grew anxious and sought a reconciliation; then she would buy him something,
or seek some other opportunity to flatter Uli, and beg him to love her, for she had no other
joy in life. And when she made him so angry he mustn't take it ill of her; she only did it
because her love was so great and she didn't want anybody else to have him--etc., etc. When
she once had him to herself she wouldn't be jealous any more; but so long as she was all in
the air and didn't know where she stood, she often felt as if she'd rather die. And she didn't
really know whether Uli loved her, either; sometimes it seemed to her that, if he loved her
very much, he'd go at it quite differently, and take hold of things better; but he was just
like a wooden doll and never lifted a hand. Then when Uli would say that he didn't know how
to do any better, that he too didn't exactly know whether Elsie really wanted him, and if she
was in earnest about it she should speak with her parents, or they would go to the pastor and
announce their engagement and then see what would come of it, Elsie would say that there was
no hurry about it; they could get married any time; the chief thing was that he should love
her, and then a year would be soon enough, or if he went at it right (that depended on him,
she would see about it), six months; but with that Freneli he must have nothing more to do
or she would scratch both their eyes out and the hussy would have to leave the house.

Of course the affair made talk for miles around, and people told much more than there was to
tell. There were two parties: one thought the parents were rightly served, the other thought
Uli would get his deserts with his rich wife. The longer it lasted, and it was over a year
now, the more probable seemed his success; the more the servants submitted to Uli and ranged
themselves on the side of the presumptive son-in-law, so that the farm took on a more and more
prosperous appearance and Uli became more and more indispensable. Even Joggeli, into whose
money-bags the cash profit flowed, and who could easily figure what twenty additional cords
of fodder and a thousand sheaves of grain meant, choked down his anger and shut one eye, comforting
himself by saying that he would use Uli as long as possible; and if matters ever got serious,
why then there would still be time enough. Once when Johannes, having heard the gossip, came
along, and cursed and swore and demanded that Uli be discharged, Joggeli would not hear to
it; as long as he lived he would give orders here, and Johannes would be glad to have Uli if
he could get him; what went on here was none of his business, and if they wanted to give Elsie
to Uli that was none of his business either. He needn't think he'd inherit everything; for
the time being everything that they still had and that he hadn't wormed out of 'em was theirs;
the more Johannes carried on, the sooner Elsie would have to marry--not that it would have
to be Uli; there were others too. They knew well enough how much he loved them; if he just
had the money he'd never ask again after father and mother and Elsie; and they could all marry
again for all he cared, and if to tramps or gipsies it would be all one to him.

Thus Joggeli talked to his son in his nagging, coughing way, so that the mother grew quite
anxious, and interrupted: Johannes needn't be afraid; that wouldn't happen, for she was still
at the helm and Elsie wouldn't force them to everything, and Uli was a good lad, and so on.
Then Johannes wanted to talk with Uli himself, but he was not to be found; he had gone out
to get a cow, it, was said. Trinette, this time much more beautifully sulphur-yellow than Elsie
had been, strutted around her with contemptuous mien and turned-up nose, and finally said,
"Fie and for shame, how common you're making yourself! To take up with a servant! It's a disgrace
for the whole family! If my folks had known that my husband's sister would marry a servant,
they'd have given him the mitten like a flash; they didn't like him any too well as it was;
but I was fool enough to want him absolutely. We can't count you as one of the family any more,
and then you can see where you'll find a roof for your head; you can't stay here any more--I
say this once and for all. Faugh, to have a love-affair with a servant! You give me the creeps;
I can't bear to look at you any more. Ugh, aren't you ashamed to the bottom of your soul, and
don't you feel like crawling into the ground?"

However, Elsie was not ashamed, but paid Trinette back heartily in her own coin: a girl could
choose anybody she wanted for her sweetheart, and could marry a servant or a master; all men
were alike before God. But if once she was a wife she'd be ashamed to have her name connected
now with the stable-boy and now with the butcher, now with the herder and now with the carter,
and finally with all the peddlers and traders, and to have children with no two noses the same
and looking as much alike as Swiss and Italians. But for Freneli and the mother, the two sisters-in-law
would have torn the grass-green and the sulphur-yellow dresses from each other's bodies. When
the mother wanted to help out Trinette by speaking for her, Elsie became so excited that they
had to put her to bed. Now, she said, when she recovered consciousness and speech--now she
surely would do what she wanted; she wouldn't let herself be made into sausages like a fat
sow; and it was cruel of her parents to want just one child to inherit and to let the other
child pine away without a husband, just so all the money would stay in one pile.

Johannes and his wife did not stay long. Turning in frequently on the homeward road, and giving
up all restraint, they spun out at length the whole story to their friends and colleagues,
male and female, and their story carried the rumor to complete certainty. The brother and his
wife told it themselves, people said, and they ought to know.

Not long afterward Uli drove to market with a horse, but soon saw that he could not sell it
for what he was instructed to get, so, as it was bad weather, he took it from the market-place
and stabled it in an inn. Turning a corner to enter the inn, he bumped into his old master.
With unconcealed joy Uli held out his hand and told him how glad he was to see him and to be
with him for a while. The master was somewhat cool and spoke of much business, but finally
named a place where they could drink a bottle in peace. There, after they were seated in a
corner fairly well out of sight, they began the preliminaries. Johannes asked whether there
had been much hay, and Uli said yes, and asked whether his grain had fallen too; the first
wind had felled theirs. "You're doing well," continued the master after some further talk,
"and what do I hear? Folks say you're soon to be farmer at Slough Farm."

"Why, who says that?" asked Uli.

"Oh, folks say it's being talked about far and wide, and they say it's surely true."

"Folks always know more than those concerned," said Uli.

"There must be something in it," answered the master. "Oh," said Uli, "I wouldn't say that
it might not be some time, but it's a long way off yet; nothing has been said about it and
it might turn out either way."

"Well," said Johannes, "it seems to me there's been enough talk about it."

"Why, how so?" asked Uli.

"Why, the girl's pregnant!"

"That's an accursed lie," cried Uli, "I haven't been near her. I won't say that I couldn't
have been; but I'd have been ashamed to. Everybody would have blamed me and thought it was
a scoundrelly trick, like a good many others; and I didn't want that. Folks mustn't say of
me that I got a rich wife that way." "So, so!" said Johannes; "then things aren't as I've heard,
and here I thought that Uli wanted to ask me to be his spokesman. I shouldn't have liked that,
I must say, and that's the reason I'd have preferred not to meet you. I'm glad it isn't so;
I'd have dirtied my own hands with it too. And in any case it would have vexed me if you'd
done like other skunks. But something is in it?"

"Oh," replied Uli, "I wouldn't deny that I've thought the daughter wanted me, and it might
be carried through if we took hold of it right. And, to be sure, it has seemed to me that that
would be a piece of good fortune for a poor lad like me; I could never do better."

"I suppose it's that pale, transparent little thing, that has to go in out of the wind for
fear of getting blown away?"

"Why, she isn't the prettiest that ever was," said Uli; "she's thin and sickly; but she'll
surely get better when she has a husband, the doctor says; and she'll get fifty thousand."

"Does she still loll around the house, or does she take hold with the housekeeping?" asked
Johannes.

"She doesn't do much work and isn't in the kitchen very often; but she can knit finely and
makes all sorts of pretty things with beads. But if she gets the farm some time we could afford
a cook. If she only looks after things now and then, she doesn't need to do everything herself,"
said Uli.

"Ye-up, but to look after things you have to know how yourself; it's foolish to think that
if a woman just looks at something, that's all that's necessary. For instance, a woman can
sit all day in a drug-store with her knitting, but that won't keep the apprentices from doing
as they please. And I thought she looked rather ugly and scowled at a person instead of giving
him a friendly word."

"She does have failings," said Uli, "and is mighty sensitive too. But if she once has a good
husband and has enough to do to keep her busy, so that she could forget herself now and then,
she'd surely improve. Not that she can't ever be friendly. She can act very prettily at times;
and if the farm's properly worked one can get at least ten thousand sheaves from it, not counting
rye and wheat."

"That's a lot," said Johannes, "and there aren't many more such farms in the canton. But if
you gave me the choice between a good farm and a bad wife, or neither, I'd take the latter
a hundred times over. To be rich is nice, but riches aren't happiness; and to have a hateful
sour woman at home, that either turns up her nose or bawls at everything, would make a home
for the devil to live in. And if a man has to look for his pleasure outside his house, he's
badly off."

"But master," said Uli, "you always told me to save and be thrifty, and then I'd be somebody;
that the man who had nothing was nothing."

"Quite right, Uli," said the master, "that's what I said and what I still say. A man is happier
when thrifty than when extravagant, and he's no man if he can't provide for his old age while
he's young and single. If a man doesn't begin well while he's young he'll come to a bad end.
A good lad with some money can marry more easily than a vagabond, and should look for a good
wife; but the richest isn't always the best. Some women I'd rather take without a farthing
than others with a hundred francs. Everything depends on the person. Do as you will, but consider
it well."

"To be sure, Elsie's a wretched creature," said Uli, "but she can improve; many a girl has
been thin when young, and has grown stout in old age; and she's not really bad tempered, especially
when she's contented. When she's angry--then, to be sure, she doesn't know just what she's
saying, and throws my position in my face, and twits me about other girls; but when she's contented
again she can be quite amusing, and has the best heart in the world. She's given me presents,
Lord knows how many, and would have given me lots more if I hadn't kept stopping her." "Do
as you will," said Johannes, "but I tell you again: consider it well. It seldom turns out well
when such different folks come together, and it has rarely turned out well when a servant has
married his master's daughter. I set great store by you; to another man I wouldn't have said
so much. Now I must go home; come and see us some time when you have the leisure; then we'll
talk the matter over some more, if it's not too late."

Uli looked discontentedly after his master. "I shouldn't have thought," he reflected, "that
he would grudge me my good fortune. But that's the way with these cursed farmers; they're all
alike; they don't want to see a servant get hold of a farm. Johannes is one of the best of
'em; but he can't stand it either to see his servant get to be richer than he is and own a
finer farm. Why else should it have mattered to him whether Elsie's pretty or ugly? He didn't
just lookout for a pretty one when he married. They seem to think it's almost a sin when the
like of us thinks of a farmer's daughter, and still many a one might be glad if she got a mannerly
servant for a husband and didn't have to live like a dog on the farm all her life." But he
said to himself that he wouldn't let himself be dissuaded so easily; the thing had gone on
too long and there had been too much talk about it for him to back out that way. But the affair
must be brought to a conclusion, he thought; he wanted to know where he stood, once and for
all; he was tired of hanging between door and hinge. He'd tell Elsie that she must speak with
her parents; by autumn the banns must be published, or he'd leave at Christmas; he wouldn't
be made a fool of any longer.

CHAPTER XXI

HOW A TRIP TO A WATERING-PLACE SAILS THROUGH A CALCULATION

[Elsie and her mother go to spend a week at the Gurnigel, a fashionable resort, leaving a heavenly
peace behind them. Elsie attracts extraordinary attention with her clothes, and is too stupid
to understand that she is being ridiculed to her face. At the same time her hundred thousand
francs dowry are not to be sneezed at, and these lure a bird of prey in the shape of a cotton-dealer,
who takes mother and daughter off for a drive, and, making good use of his opportunity, carries
his point by storm. Elsie is in the seventh heaven, her mother not quite so overjoyed.]

CHAPTER XXII

OF INWARD CONFLICTS, WHICH ARE TO BE ENDED BY AN ENGAGEMENT

[Joggeli will not hear to the affair, fearing to lose Uli. Freneli chides Elsie for breaking
her promise to Uli, and the latter is at first completely stunned, overwhelmed with chagrin,
rage, and disappointment. He is only saved from some act of rash folly by Freneli, who counsels
him to put the mockers off the track by pretending utter indifference. The cotton-dealer loses
no time in coming in state to secure his prize; Joggeli is quite overcome by his smooth tongue,
but requests a fortnight for deliberation with his son and others.]

CHAPTER XXIII

OF SUBSEQUENT EMBARRASSMENTS WHICH RESULT FROM THE ENGAGEMENT

[Uli's behavior staggers the gossips, but his assumed indifference soon becomes genuine; none
the less, he is resolved to give up his place at Christmas. Johannes and Trinette are both
beside themselves; the reports about the prospective son-in-law are conflicting and doubtful.
But Elsie is so wild, and the cotton-dealer so persuasive, that the parents finally give reluctant
consent to the marriage. Elsie constantly accuses Freneli of flirting with her husband, who
is not insensible to Freneli's beauty and charm; she resolves to leave Slough Farm also, since
Elsie is no longer to be controlled and Freneli is subjected to her unbridled temper. The old
mistress is in utter consternation at the imminent loss of her two best helpers, Uli and Freneli;
and new sorrow comes to her through the son-in-law, who guts the house of its stores on pretense
of putting the money out at interest, and keeps a hawk's eye on all her housekeeping.]

CHAPTER XXIV

OF ANOTHER TRIP, WHICH DOES NOT DESTROY A CALCULATION, BUT UNEXPECTEDLY CONCLUDES ONE

ALL this weighed on the good mother's mind, and when she reflected that Uli and Freneli would
both leave besides, that her son-in-law would then get the reins wholly into his hands, that
she would have to run the house on nothing, be stingy to the poor, and be held accountable
for every cup of flour and for every cake she baked, such a feeling of misery came over her
that she had to sit down and cry, shedding tears enough to wash her hands in, until even Joggeli
came out and told her not to cry so--that everybody would hear her and would wonder what was
the matter.

What he had said, she answered, didn't amount to anything; she knew that he had to talk at
times. And Freneli also comforted her, telling her not to take it so hard; things always turned
out better than one expected. But she shook her head and bade them let her alone; she would
have to compose herself--talking was no use. For many days following she sought composure.
They saw her going about silently as if she were revolving grave things in her mind, or sitting
apart now and then when she thought herself unnoticed, her hands in her lap, and picking up
from time to time the tip of her apron and wiping her eyes with the wrong side of it. Finally
her spirits became lighter; the state of uncertainty seemed to leave her; she said she felt
much better, but she thought she'd like to go away somewhere; she had such an unsatisfied longing,
and she believed she'd get over it if she could get away for a day or two. This time Joggeli
had no objection; his old wife had made even him anxious. She could go either to her son or
her daughter, whichever she wished! Uli would drive her, for he had plenty of time now, said he.

No, she didn't want to go there, she said; there was everlasting quarreling there, and even
if she filled her pockets with thalers, she wouldn't have enough. She thought she'd like to
visit cousin Johannes; they had long promised him a visit, but hadn't kept the promise and
she had never been there. She would see a new road and an unfamiliar country, and could perhaps
best forget what was grieving her. She wanted to take Freneli along; she too hadn't been away
for a long time. They hadn't taken her with them to Elsie's wedding, and it was only fair to
give the girl a pleasure once in a while.

To the latter plan Joggeli had many objections; but this time he gave in for his old wife's
sake and agreed to get along for a couple of days. In a glory of color the withered leaves
hung on the trees, in the gleam of their own after-glow; below them, in cheerful green, lay
the young crops, and played merrily with the winking dew-drops that clung to their tips; and
over everything the sky spread itself, mysterious and fragrant, the impenetrable source of
God's wonders. Black crows were flying across the fields; green woodpeckers hung on the trees;
fleet squirrels ran across the road and, hastily gaining a branch, peeped out curiously at
the passing travelers, while high in the air the snow-geese sailed on toward a, warmer country
in their well-ordered triangle, and their strange travel-song floated strangely down from their
lofty height.

The mother's judicious eyes roved actively over the whole scene; there was no end to her comments,
and she and Uli exchanged many a shrewd remark. Especially when they drove through the villages
did the noteworthy things become legion, and there were few houses that did not offer her opportunity
for comment. To sit at home all the time was no use, said she; one always kept seeing the same
things. One ought to drive around the country from time to time; then one could not merely
gratify his curiosity, but learn a lot too. Folks didn't do things everywhere alike, and in
some places they did better than in others, and so one could always pick and choose the best.
They had not driven much more than, two hours when she began to suggest that they must give
Blackie something to eat. He was not used to running so long, and they must bring him home
in good condition. "You stop at the next public-house," she said in response to Uli's objections,
"and see if he won't eat a measure of oats. I'd just as soon have something myself; I'm actually
beginning to be cold."

Arrived there, she said to Uli, "When the horse has his oats, come in." In the doorway she
again turned around and cried, "Do you hear? Come in then." After the hostess having wiped
off the benches in the tavern with her apron, had asked, "What can I bring you?" and a good
bottle and some tea had been ordered, the women sat down, looked around the room, made their
comments in a low voice, and wondered that it was no later by this clock. But Uli had probably
driven fast; one could see that he had been in a hurry to get there. When finally the order
was brought with the excuse that it had taken a long time because the water had not been hot
and the wood had refused to burn, the mother told Freneli to call Uli; she didn't see why he
didn't come; she had told him twice. When he had come and had drunk their health sufficiently,
the hostess tried to begin a conversation, saying that another wedding party had stopped in
there today. The mother laughed out heartily, and Uli was amused too; but Freneli grew red
and angry and remarked that not all the parties on the road today were wedding parties; that
other folks, she supposed, had the right to go driving on Saturday, too; the road wasn't reserved
for wedding parties.--She shouldn't get so angry, said the hostess; she didn't know her, but
it seemed to her that the young folks were just right for each other; she hadn't seen such
a handsome couple for a long time. The mother appeased the hostess, saying that she needn't
excuse herself so much; they had had a great laugh about it at home, and had thought that's
the way it would be, and then too the girl had got so angry.

"It's not nice of you, auntie, to help torment me," said Freneli; "if I had known this I shouldn't
have come along."

"Why, nobody's tormenting you," said her aunt laughing. "Don't be so silly; many a girl would
be tickled to be taken for a bride."

"That doesn't tickle me," said Freneli, "and if I'm not let alone, I'll go home this minute."

"Why, you can't tie up people's mouths, and you ought to be glad that they haven't anything
worse to say about you," answered her aunt.

"It's bad enough, if folks marry me off to a man that I don't want and that doesn't want me."

Freneli would have continued indefinitely if they had not hitched up and driven on. They advanced
rapidly. Uli had much to tell as to who owned this house or that field. As he saw the first
of Johannes' fields, his heart laughed within him. All that he had formerly done there came
back to him; from a distance he pointed everything out, and praised its good qualities. Then
came another field and still another, and they were driving up to the house before they knew
it. Johannes' people were busy putting up sauerkraut in the front shed; the whole household
was gathered there. All raised their heads as the unexpected little wagon came along. At first
the strangers were not recognized; then the cry arose: "It's Uli, it's Uli," and the children
sprang down from the porch; then Johannes said, "Cousin Joggeli's wife is with him! What the
dickens has got into her? What does she want?"

He and his wife now stepped forward and reached up their hands in welcome, and his wife said,
"God bless you, Uli, are you bringing your wife with you?"

Then the mistress laughed heartily again, and said, "There you have it, whether you will or
no; that's the way it is; why, everybody says so."

"Everywhere they take us for a wedding party," explained Uli, "because we're driving along
on Saturday, when so many folks get married."

"Ho, and not only that," said Johannes, "but it strikes me that you wouldn't make a bad couple."

"You hear, Freneli," said her aunt, "Johannes says so too; there's no use fighting it any more."

With Freneli tears had been contending with smiles, anger with jest; finally she gained the
mastery over herself, so as not to make a scene before strangers, and replied, "I've always
heard that if there was to be a marriage, two people had to want it; but in this case nobody
wants it, and so I don't see how anything is to come of it."

"What isn't, can be," said Johannes' wife; "such things often come unexpectedly."

"I don't feel any traces of it," said Freneli, but then broke off and held out her hand again,
saying how bold it had been of her to go along; but her aunt had wished it, and she could make
the excuses if they were put to expense.

"I'm very glad you've come," said the housewife, and urgently bade them come in, although the
visitors, said they would not keep her from her work, but would stay outside, it was so nice
and pleasant in the open. But, protest as they might that they needed nothing and had just
eaten, a fire was made and only by a thrice repeated trip to the kitchen could a, formal meal
be prevented, and hospitality reduced to a pot of coffee. Freneli had soon made friends with
the oldest daughter, who had grown from an active child into a beautiful young girl, and had
to inspect all her treasures. Out of due respect, Uli soon withdrew, and the older people were
left alone.

Finally, with a heavy sigh, Uli's mistress began the conversation, saying that she'd have to
come out with the reason for her journey; she hadn't known any better place to go for advice
and help than just here. Johannes had so often helped 'em that she thought he wouldn't leave
'em in the lurch this time either. Everything had gone so well with 'em that it had been a
real pleasure. To be sure, Uli had got Elsie into his head for awhile; but the girl herself
had been to blame for that, and she thought Uli had seen in the end that she was no suitable
match for him. Then misfortune had taken them to the Gurnigel, and there Elsie had picked up
a husband, and since then everything had been ruined. Her Johannes was carrying on; her son-in-law
wasn't as he should be, but poked his nose into everything and thought she ought not to spend
anything more in her housekeeping. Elsie was always quarreling with Freneli, and Freneli was
going to leave on account of it; Uli too; everything came on her, and she didn't know for the
life of her what to do; many a night she hadn't closed an eye and just cried and cried because
such misfortune had come to her in her old age. Then an idea had come to her; surely no sensible
person could make any objection if they should lease out their farm, and that would take the
load off her. And then she had thought that they couldn't possibly get a better tenant than
Uli, who'd look after everything for them and was good and honest; and Uli could make his fortune
there, too, for he shouldn't be treated badly, she would see to that; it would be his profit
as well as theirs.

"That's all well and good," said Johannes; "but don't be angry, cousin, only I must ask whether
you think that every one will consent? There's a lot of folks have to have their say in this,
if it's to be done. What will your folks say? Joggeli's awfully queer sometimes. And your children
will put in their oar too and want to make the farming as profitable as possible. Uli has a
risky undertaking. A single bad year, with sickness of the stock or the like, can ruin him.
On such a farm a thousand francs more or less in earnings can scarcely be seen, whereas in
a single year four or five thousand can be lost."

"Cousin Johannes," said she, "you mustn't think we're such heartless creatures as to ruin our
tenant on account of a single bad year. If we had the farm, shouldn't we have the bad year
ourselves, and why should the tenant have to stand the loss if it's too dry or too wet? It's
our farm all the time, and how can he avoid it? It's often seemed cruel to me when the leaseholder
always has to pay the same rent, whether or no. No, cousin, Joggeli's queer, but he's not the
worst, and, if everything else failed, it isn't as if I didn't have something of my own to
help out with."

"No harm intended," said Johannes; "but to do a thing properly one has to mention everything.
I should be awfully glad of it, for your sake and for Uli's and for my own too; for I set some
store by Uli. It's true that he's almost as dear to me as my own child, and I won't be stingy
if I can do anything for him. He told me about Elsie, too, and I tried to talk him out of it.
He didn't like it at the time, as I could well see. I wonder whether he'll say anything about
it to me now. Shall I talk to him about this affair, and try to sound him and see what he thinks,
or shall I talk right out bluntly, or do you want to talk with Joggeli first?"

"I'd rather be clear about Uli and Freneli, and that's why I came with 'em," said she. "If
I talk to Joggeli about it and then find out later that they're not willing, I'll never hear
the last of it and how silly and stupid I was; you know he's so queer and never gives up a
grudge; and still he's not the worst either. If you're willing, cousin, then sound Uli and
see what he says, drag the secret out of him; I'd like it very much if I knew where he stands.
It seems to me I'd be in heaven if the business was all fixed up. Don't you like the girl too?"
asked his cousin. And Johannes and his wife praised her highly, saying how pretty and attractive
she was, and the former promised to help as much as he could.

That evening it was not convenient; there was no opportunity to be alone with Uli. But the
next morning, as soon as they had breakfasted, Johannes asked Uli if he would go out to the
pasture with him; he would like to show him what he had sowed and ask him about this and that.
Uli's mistress admonished them not to stay too long, for they wanted to set out in good season
so as not to get home too late. While Johannes's wife was urging her to stay over another night
the men strolled away.

It was another beautiful day. One steeple after another proclaimed that it was the Lord's day,
that hearts should open to the Lord and keep Sabbath with Him, to receive His peace and feel
His love. The two wanderers felt the solemnity of it; over many a field they walked with little
speech. Then they came to the edge of the woods, whence they could see the valley floating
in the wonderful autumn haze and hear the peal of the bells from many steeples, calling the
people together to take into their open hearts the seed that bears sixty and a hundredfold
on good soil. Silently they sat down there and drew in through the wide-open gates of their
eyes and ears the glorious sermon of the Lord, which can be heard without words every day in
all countries; and in deep reverence they heard the tones reecho in the sanctuary of their souls.

At last Johannes asked, "You're not going to stay on Slough Farm?"

"No," said Uli. "Not that I'm angry with them about Elsie. I'm glad it turned out so. Now it's
over I can see that I shouldn't have had a happy hour with her, and that with such an ugly,
lazy hussy no amount of money would make a man happy. I can't understand what I was thinking
of. But I don't want to stay. The son-in-law is always there, wants to start running things,
and swindles the mistress wherever he can, so that I can't bear to see it; and I won't take
orders from him."

"But what do you want?" asked Johannes.

"That's just what I'd like to talk to you about," said Uli. "I could get places enough; I could
go to their son, too, and he'd give me as much pay as I wanted. But I don't know; being a servant
isn't exactly unsatisfactory, but it seems to me that, if I want to start out for myself, now's
the time. I'm in the thirties, and almost beginning to get old."

"Oh, that's it!" said Johannes. "Have you got marrying into your head?"

"Not especially," said Uli. "But if I'm going to marry it ought to be soon, and a man ought
to start for himself, too, while he's still active. But I don't know what to do. I haven't
enough for anything worth while, for what's two thousand francs to make a decent start with?
I keep thinking about what you said, that you can't get the rent out of a little farm, and
that a leaseholder can't very well take over a big place unless he has money in hand, and still
he'll be ruined on a little one."

"Ho," said Johannes, "two thousand francs is something, and there's farms here and there with
the stock all on 'em, where you can get the stock too on appraisal, so that you could keep
your cash in hand for your own dealings, and then if you needed more you'd probably find folks
that had money."

"Yes, but they won't give it to me. If a man wants money he's got to have good security, or
guarantors, and where'd he get 'em?"

"Well, Uli," said Johannes, "that's just what I told you: a good name is good security. Fifteen
years ago I wouldn't have lent you fifteen cents; but today, if you need two or three thousand
francs, you can have 'em on a simple note; or if you want me to indorse your note, just say
so. What are folks in the world for if not to help each other?"

"That's good news," said Uli; "I wouldn't have dared to think of that; and if I knew of anything,
I'd take right hold."

"I wouldn't," said Johannes. "I'd go looking for a wife first, and then when I had one I'd
make my start. Lots of men have been ruined before now, only because their wives didn't suit
their business, or wouldn't. To carry on a household well, there must be harmony in it. Once
you've got a wife and the two of you choose a place to buy or let that suits you both, you've
gained a lot. Or have you something of the kind under way?"

"No," said Uli. "I know of one, but she wouldn't take me."

"Why not?" asked Johannes. "Is it another rich farmer's daughter?"

"No," said Uli, "it's the girl that came along today. She hasn't much money; but whoever gets
her is lucky. I've often thought that with her a man would go farther, even though she hasn't
a cent, than with the rich Elsie. Whatever she takes hold of she does well; she has luck with
everything, and there's nothing she doesn't understand. I don't think she's ever tired; she's
first in the morning and last at night, and never idle all day. You never have to wait for
meals, she never forgets the maids, and you'd think she couldn't lose her temper; the more
there is to do, the merrier she gets, whereas most people get cross when they've got a lot
to do, and it's no fun to be around. She's thrifty in everything and yet she's good to the
poor, and when anybody gets sick she can't look after him enough. There's nobody like her far
and wide."

"But why shouldn't you get her?" asked Johannes. "Does she hate you?"

"Not exactly," said Uli. "She's nice to me; when she can do me a favor she never says no, and
when she sees that I'd like to have something done she helps me as much as she can; and she
never tries to put obstacles in the way, like so many women, who, when they see you absolutely
ought to do one thing, absolutely want something else and hinder you as much as they can. But
still she's rather proud, and she can't forget that she comes of a distinguished family, even
if she is illegitimate. If anybody gets anywhere near her she goes for him as if she'd eat
him, and I wouldn't advise anybody to try to flirt with her and put hands on her, as is customary
in lots of places. More than one has got a good box from her."

"But that doesn't at all mean that she wouldn't have you," said Johannes. "If she won't let
herself be fingered by everybody, I can't think any the less of her for it."

"Well, then there's something else," said Uli. "I daren't think of Freneli any more. Wouldn't
she say to me, 'Now that you can't have the rich one, I'm to be good enough for you, am I?
If you could prefer that green, yellow Elsie to me, then I don't want you now, either; I don't
want a fellow who has gone around sweethearting with such a withered grass-blade as that.'
She's bound to give me that answer. And still I thought of Freneli more than I did of Elsie
all through the affair; only now I begin to see that I've loved Freneli more and more, and
if I had the girl I'd guarantee to take over a farm and make more on it than anybody else.
But now it's too late; she won't have me; she's awfully peculiar."

"Ho!" said Johannes, "never lose your courage as long as a girl's single. They're the queerest
sort of ducks and generally do just the opposite of what you expect. If that's the way it is
I'd have a try; the girl pleases me."

"No, master, I wouldn't ask that girl for a hundred crowns. I know well enough that it will
almost break my heart if I have to go away from her and can't see her every day any more. But
if I asked her and she should despise me and say no, I think I'd hang myself on the garret
ladder. By the Almighty, I couldn't stand it if another man led her off to church; I believe
I'd shoot him. But she won't marry, she'll stay single."

Then Johannes began to laugh very heartily and asked how he knew that such a girl, twenty-three
years old, would stay single.

"Oh," said Uli, "she won't have anybody; I don't know who'd be good enough for her."

Now Johannes said they had better think about getting home before church was out; he didn't
wish to run into the church-goers. Uli followed him, speaking little, and what he said was
concerned only with Freneli, now one thing and then another, and he asked Johannes to promise
that he wouldn't let a word that Uli had told him cross his lips. "You simpleton," said Johannes,
"who should I tell?"

Meanwhile Uli's mistress had long since been quivering with impatience, and as soon as Uli
and his old master entered the room she said to him, "Go up to the room we slept in and see
what Freneli's doing. Tell her to pack up; we want to start out." Uli found the girl standing
before a table, folding up one of her aunt's aprons. He stepped softly up behind her, put his
arm about her quite gently, and said, "Your aunt's in a hurry." Freneli turned swiftly about,
and looked silently up at Uli, as if surprised at this unwonted familiarity, and the latter
asked, "Are you still angry at me?"

"I've never been angry at you," she replied.

"Then give me a kiss; you've never given me one," answered Uli, and bent down.

At that instant Freneli twisted away so powerfully that he was driven back half across the
room; and still it seemed to him as if he had got his kiss; he thought he felt Freneli's lips
quite distinctly on one spot. But the latter waggishly gave him a dressing down, intimating
that she thought he was too old for such tricks, and probably her aunt hadn't sent him up to
take her time with such foolishness. He must think what Stini, his old sweetheart, would say
to it if she came in; she didn't went to have a wrestling match with her, like Yrsi. At the
same time she laughed so that Uli felt quite crushed and got out as soon as he could.

They were later in setting out than they had expected, for as they were about to hitch up they
had to sit down to a meal for which Johannes's wife had summoned her whole culinary skill and
the entire resources of her house. Although Uli's mistress kept saying time after time, "Good
heavens, who can eat of every dish?" still there was no end of pressing them, and she was not
left in peace until she declared that she simply couldn't swallow another thing; if she was
to eat another bite, she'd burst.

While Uli was hitching up she put new coins into the hands of her cousin's children, although
the latter tried to refuse them, and the parents told her not to go to such expense and admonished
the children not to be so bold as to take them. When they took them just the same and ran and
showed the treasure to their mother, she said, "Oh, what a thing to do; it makes us ashamed."
And then her cousin said it was not worth talking about, and urged them to come very soon and
visit them, and get back what this visit had cost them. They would surely come, was the answer;
but they shouldn't have hurried so and should have stayed another day. So amid much talk they
finally reached their little wagon and continued talking as they drove away, Freneli telling
her aunt all that she had noticed, which was indeed not a little; for she had seen many things
of which she said, "If I was younger and could work better I'd have that too." To all this
Uli said nothing, and only paid such strict attention to his Blackie, which he made trot so
sharply that his mistress finally said, "Uli, is anything the matter with you? Aren't you driving
Blackie too hard? He's not used to running so." Uli excused himself and received orders to
stop when they had gone something more than halfway. * * *

Without paying attention to the conversation of the two women, Uli drove to the designated
inn. The hostess welcomed them and led them into a special room, as the mother had desired,
after telling Uli to come right in. Then she ordered wine and a couple of plates with something
to eat; driving had made them hungrier than they would have believed possible.

The order was brought, but Uli was missing. The hostess had been sent out after him, and came
back and said she had told him; but still he did not come. Then the mistress said, "Go, Freneli,
and tell him to come at once." Freneli hesitated and thought they oughtn't to compel him; if
he was hungry or thirsty he'd come all right. "If you won't go," said her aunt, "I'll have
to go myself." Then Freneli went out in a temper, and with stinging words drove Uli along,
who had been standing in the sulks by the bowling alley and had at first refused to come. He
could stay where he was, for all of her, she said; but her aunt had ordered it. It was she
that wanted him to come; she herself, Freneli, had no desire to run after him any more.

Uli came at last, giving little answer to the many reproaches of his mistress for having to
be forced to come. But she filled his glass heartily, forced him to eat, and kept up a chatter
of talk--how well she had liked it at Cousin Johannes' house, and how she could now see where
Uli had got his training. But he must have been especially good to them, too, for the children
still hung upon him and their parents loved him almost like a son. "I suppose you'll want to
go back to them, when you leave us."

"No," said Uli.

"It's not customary to ask, to be sure; but will you tell me where you are going?" asked his
mistress.

"I don't know yet," said Uli; "I haven't been in a hurry to take a place, although I could
have had several."

"Well then, stay with us; that's the best thing for both of us; we're accustomed to each other
now."

"I hope you won't take it ill of me," he said; "but I don't intend to be a servant any more."

"Have you something else?" she asked.

"No," he answered.

"Well, if you don't want to be a servant any more, suppose we make you tenant on our farm."

This speech affected Uli like a sudden blow. He dropped his mutton-laden fork on his plate,
but kept his mouth open, turned his saucer eyes upon his mistress and stared at her as if she
had come down from the moon. Freneli, who had been standing at the window, vexed at Uli's slow
eating, turned swiftly about and opened eyes and ears to see what would happen.

"Yes, look at me all you want," said the mistress to Uli; "I mean it seriously; if you won't
stay as servant would you stay as leaseholder?"

"Mistress," said Uli at last, "how should I be able to become your tenant? I'm not able; I'd
have to be lots better off than I am. You're only making game of me."

"No, Uli, I mean it," said his mistress, "and your not having money doesn't matter; we could
arrange it so that it wouldn't cost you anything to begin; the whole place is furnished."

"But what do you suppose, mistress," exclaimed Uli; "even if you did this, who would be my
security? A single bad year on such a farm would ruin me. The place is too big for me."

"Ho, Uli, that can be managed, and we're not such hard-hearted wretches as to let a tenant
that suits us be ruined on account of a single year. Just say you're willing, and we'll fix
all that."

"Well, mistress," said Uli, "even so; but who would look after the housekeeping for me? There's
a lot to do there."

"Ho, take a wife," said she.

"That's easily said," answered Uli; "but where should I find one that would be the right person
for it and that would have me?"

"Don't you know of anybody?" asked the mistress.

At that Uli's voice stuck in his throat, and hesitating and embarrassed, he poked around on
his plate with his fork. But Freneli said quickly that it seemed to her it was time to go,
for Blackie must have eaten his oats long ago and Uli had probably had enough by this time;
they, could continue their jokes another day.

Without listening to these words her aunt finally said, "Don't you know of anybody? For I do."

Again Uli turned saucer eyes upon her; Freneli said she was curious too. Her aunt, with undisturbed,
playful ease, one hand on the table, her broad back rested comfortably against her chair, said,
"Give a guess; you know her." Uli looked around at the walls; he could not find the right word;
he felt as if he had a whole bagful of mashed potatoes in his mouth. Freneli tripped up impatiently
behind her aunt, remarking that they ought to start out, as it was getting dark. Her aunt,
however, did not listen to Freneli, but went on, "Can't you think of her? You know her well.
She's a hard-working girl, but acts up a little at times, and if you don't quarrel you can
have a very good life together." Thereupon she laughed very heartily, and looked first at one
and then the other.

Then Uli looked up; but before he had gulped out an answer Freneli intervened, and said, "Go
and hitch up; Auntie, one can carry a joke too far, too. I wish I'd never gone along. I don't
know why I can't be left in peace. Yesterday other folks made me angry, and today you're worse
still. That's not kind, Auntie."

Uli had stood up to go out; but his mistress said, "Sit down and listen. I'm in earnest; I've
said to Joggeli many a time that there never were two people better fitted for each other than
you two; it was as if you'd grown up for each other."

"But Auntie," cried Freneli, "for goodness gracious sake, do stop, or I'll run away. I won't
be auctioned off like a cow. Wait till Christmas; then I'll get out of your sight, or even
before, if I'm so displeasing to you. Why do you take so much useless pains to bring two people
together that don't want each other? Uli cares for me just as much as I do for him, and the
sooner we part company the gladder I'll be."

But now Uli's tongue was loosened and he said, "Freneli, don't be so angry with me; I can't
help this. But this much let me tell you; even if you do hate me, I've loved you this long
time, and wouldn't want a better wife. Any one would be happy with you; if you'll have me,
I'd be only too happy."

"Oh, ho!" said Freneli, "now that you hear about the farm and that you'd get it in lease if
you had a wife, all at once I'll just suit you. You're a cheerful fellow! If you only got the
farm you'd marry a hussy from the gutter, or a fence-post, wouldn't you? But oh, ho ho!" she
laughed scornfully, "you've struck the wrong girl; I don't have to have a husband; I don't
want any, and least of all a man that would marry a lamp-wick if there was a little oil on
it. If you won't start off I'll walk home alone," and with that she was about to dart out of
the door.

But Uli caught her and held her with a strong arm, resist as she would, saying, "No, truly,
Freneli, you wrong me. If I could have you, I'd go out into the wilderness, where I'd have
to clear the whole land before I could plant it. It's true that when Elsie flirted so with
me, the farm went to my head and I'd have married her just on that account. But I'd have committed
a heavy sin; for even then you were in my heart, and I always liked to see you a hundred times
better than her. Every time I saw her I was frightened; but when I met you my heart always
jumped for joy. Just ask Johannes; I told him this morning that I didn't know where under the
sun I could find a better wife than you."

"Let me go," cried Freneli, who had carried on like an angry cat during all this handsome speech
and had not even refrained from pinching and scratching.

"I'll let you go," said Uli, who manfully bore the scratching and pinching; "but you mustn't
suspect me of wanting you only in case I could be tenant on the farm. You must believe that
I love you anyway."

"I make no promises," cried Freneli, and she pulled herself free with all her might, and fled
to the other end of the table.

"Why, you act just like a wild-cat," cried her aunt. "I never saw such a girl. But now be sensible,
come and sit down beside me. Will you come or not? I'll never say another kind word to you
as long as I live if you won't sit down here a minute and keep still. Uli, order another bottle.
Keep still now, girl, and don't interrupt me," continued her aunt, and she went on to tell
how she should feel if they both went away; what evil days awaited her; shed painful tears
over her own children, and said that she could still be made happy if it might turn out as
she had thought it through in her sleepless nights. If two people could be happy together,
they were the ones. She had often told Joggeli that she had never seen two people that understood
each other so well in their work and were so helpful to each other. If they kept on in the
same way they must become very prosperous. They would do whatever they could to help them,
she and Joggeli. They weren't like some proprietors, who weren't happy unless a tenant was
ruined on their place every other year, and who spent sleepless nights planning to raise the
rent when the tenant was able to pay the whole amount on time, because they were afraid he
had got it too cheap. Truly, they'd do by her as by their own children, and Freneli would have
a dowry that no farmer's daughter need be ashamed of. But if that didn't suit her and Freneli
carried on so, then she didn't know what to do; she'd rather never go home again. She wouldn't
reproach her; but she surely hadn't deserved to have Freneli act so now; she had always done
by her as she thought right. And now Freneli was behaving in this way just to grieve her--that
she could see; she hadn't been the same to her for a long time. And the good woman wept right
heartily.

"But, Auntie," said Freneli, "how can you talk so? You've been a mother to me; I've always
looked on you as such, and if I had to go through fire for you I wouldn't hesitate a minute.
But I won't be forced upon such a puppy who doesn't want me. If I have to have a husband I
want one who loves me and takes me for my own sake, not one that takes me along with the other
cows as part of the lease."

"How can you talk so?" asked her aunt. "Didn't you hear him say he's loved you this long time?"

"Yes," said Freneli, "that's what they all say, one with another; but if they all choked on
that lie there wouldn't be many weddings. He's no better than the rest, I guess; if you hadn't
talked about the farm first, then you could have seen how much he'd have been in love with
me. And it's not right of you to tell me nothing about all this, or to fling me plumb at his
head like a pine-cone thrown to a sow. If you'd confided in me first I could have told you
what's trumps with Uli. What he says is: 'Gold, I love you;' and then he expects us to hear:
'Girl, I love you.'"

"You're a queer Jenny," said her aunt, "and you act as if you was the daughter of a lord."

"That's just it, Auntie! Just because I'm only a poor girl, it's proper for me to hold myself
high and not let myself be treated like a handful of fodder. I think I have more right to it
than many a high-born girl, no matter whether she's the daughter of a lord or a farmer."

"But, Freneli," protested Uli, "how can I change that, and do I have to pay for it? You know
well in your heart that I love you, and I knew just as little of what your aunt had in mind
as you; and so it's not right of you to vent your anger on me."

"Ah," said Freneli, "now I begin to see that the whole thing was a put-up job; otherwise you
wouldn't excuse yourself before I accused you. That's worse than ever, and I won't listen to
another word; I won't let myself be caught like a fish in a net."

With that Freneli again tried to get up and run out; but her aunt held her fast by her bodice,
saying that she was the wildest and most suspicious creature under the sun. Since when did
she set traps for her? It was true that she had wanted to visit her cousin about this affair,
and for that reason she had taken them both along. But what she had in mind nobody knew, not
even Joggeli, much less Uli. She had commissioned her cousin to worm Uli's secrets out of him,
and it was true that Uli had praised Freneli to the skies, so that her cousin had told her
that Uli would take Freneli any time--the sooner the better; but that Uli was afraid to say
anything to Freneli for fear she'd hold up Elsie against him. At that she had thought that
she would speak, if Uli was afraid to; for that Uli didn't suit the girl, nobody could convince
her; her eyes weren't in the back of her head yet. So Uli couldn't help it at all.

"But then why did he come into the room today while I was packing up and want to give me a
kiss? He never did that before."

"Oh," said Uli, "I'll just tell you. After I had talked with old master today you were in my
mind more than ever, and I thought I'd give everything I had if I knew whether you loved me
and would have me. I didn't know a thing about the farm. Then when I found you alone, something
came over me, I didn't know what; I felt a sort of longing in my arm; I had to touch you and
ask for a kiss. At first I thought I had had one; but then later I thought it couldn't have
been, or else you; wouldn't have pushed me out into the room so wildly. I thought you didn't
care for me, and that made me so sad at heart that I wished Christmas was here and I could
go away; indeed I was going far, far away down into Italy, so that nobody would ever hear anything
of me. And I feel so still, Freneli, if you won't have me. I don't want the lease, and I'll
go away and away, as far as my feet will carry me, and no one shall ever know where I've gone."

He had stood up and stepped up to Freneli, and tears stood in his honest eyes; while they were
rolling down her aunt's cheeks. Then Freneli looked up at him and her eyes grew moist, though
mockery and defiance still quivered about her mouth; but the repressed love broke through and
began to send its shining rays out of her eyes, while her maidenly reluctance cast up her lips
as bulwark against her surrender to his manly insistence. And while her eyes radiated love,
still there came forth from behind the pouting lips the mocking words: "But, Uli, what will
Stini say, if you're after another girl so soon? Won't she sing to you:

    'A dove-cot would be just as true:
    It's off with the old love, on with the new.'"

"But how can you play the fool with him so?" queried her aunt; "you see he's in earnest. If
I was in his place I'd turn my back on you and tell you to whistle for me if you wanted me."

"He's free to do it, Auntie, and you don't know but I wish he would," said Freneli.

"No you don't," retorted her aunt; "I can hear that in your voice. And Uli, if you're not a
stupid, you'll put your arms around her this minute; she won't shove you out into the room
now, trust me."

But her aunt was mistaken. Once more the girl summoned all her strength, and whirled about
so sharply that she almost shook off Uli again. But her strength did not hold out. She fell
on Uli's breast and broke out in loud, almost convulsive weeping. The two others almost became
frightened, as her sobbing seemed to have no end; they did not understand what was the matter.
Uli comforted her as well as he could, and begged her not to go on so: if she'd rather not
have him, he could go away, he wouldn't torment her. Her aunt was vexed at first and told her
she was silly; that in her day girls hadn't put a hound to shame with their howling when they
found a sweetheart. But then she became alarmed and said she wouldn't force the girl; if she
was unwilling to have Uli she could do what she liked for all of her. Only for goodness sake
she shouldn't go on so; the innkeepers might wonder what was happening.

Finally Freneli recovered enough to tell them just to leave her in peace; that she would try
to compose herself. She had been a poor orphan all her life, and an outcast from childhood.
No father had ever taken her on his lap, no mother ever kissed her; never had she had a breast
to lay her head on. She had often thought it wouldn't be hard even to die, if only she could
sit on somebody's lap and clasp somebody around the neck; but during all her childhood nobody
had loved her, and she had had no home. She couldn't say how often she had wept alone. Her
longing had always and always been to have somebody that she could love with all her heart
and all her soul; to find somebody on whose breast she could hide her head at all times. She
had never found a chum to satisfy her longing. And so when folks talked to her about marrying,
she had thought she never would unless she could believe from the bottom of her heart that
she had found the breast on which to lay her head in joy and sorrow, and which would be true
to her in life and death. But she had found none that she could have such faith in. She loved
Uli, had loved him long, more than she could say; but this faith in him she hadn't yet been
able to have. And if she was deceived this time, if Uli's love and loyalty weren't true and
genuine, then her last hope would be gone, then she'd never find the breast she sought, and
would have to die unhappy. That was why she was so afraid, and she begged them on her knees
to leave her in peace, so that she could consider thoroughly what was best for her to do. Oh,
they didn't know how a poor orphan felt, that had never sat on her father's lap, or been kissed
by her mother!

"You're a dear silly child," said her aunt, wiping her wet cheeks. "If I'd known that that's
what you wanted I certainly wouldn't have grudged you an extra kiss now and then. But why didn't
you say so? A body can't think of everything; when you have to plan all day long what to give
your folks to eat, you don't stop to think about who's to be kissed."

Uli said he had deserved it; it only served him right, and he ought to have known that it would
be so. But if she could look into his heart she'd see how much he loved her and how honestly.
He wouldn't excuse himself; he had thought of marrying several times, but never had he loved
any one as he did her. But he wouldn't coerce her; he would simply have to be content to accept
her will in the matter.

"Why, you can just hear," said her aunt, "how much he loves you. Come, take your glass and
drink health to Uli, and promise him that you'll be the wife of the leaseholder of Slough Farm."

Freneli stood up, took her glass and drank the health, but made no promise, only begging them
to leave her in peace for today, and say no more about it; tomorrow, if must be, she would
give her answer.

"You're a queer Jenny," said her aunt. "Well then, Uli, hitch up; our folks will wonder where
we are."

Outside, the stars were twinkling against the dark-blue background; small wisps of white mist
hovered over the moist meadows; single streamers rose along the valley slopes; mild breezes
rocked the faded foliage; here and there on the pasture a forgotten cow tinkled her bell for
her forgetful master; here and there a frolicsome lad sent his merry cry flying over hill and
dale. The commotion of the day and the driving lulled the old woman into deep sleep, and Uli,
with tense muscles, held in the wildly racing Blackie to a moderately fast pace; Freneli was
alone in the wide world. As far off in the distant sky the stars floated in the limitless space
of the unfathomable blue ocean, each by itself in its solitary course, so she felt herself
again to be the poor, solitary, forsaken girl in the great turmoil of the universe. When she
had left aunt and uncle, when they were dead, she would have no one left on earth; no house
for a refuge in time of sickness; no one to tell her troubles to; no eye to laugh and weep
with her; no person that would weep when she should die; yes, perhaps no one who would escort
her coffin to that narrow, cold resting-place that they would some day have to assign her.
She was alone; solitary and forsaken she was to wander through the turmoil of the world to
her lonely grave; perhaps a long journey through many, many lonely years, more bowed, more
discouraged and powerless from year to year--an old, withered, despised creature, to whom scarce
any would give refuge, even though begged for it in the name of the Lord. New sorrow quivered
in her heart, lamentations were about to well up. Why did the good Father, who was called Love,
let such poor children, who had nobody in the world, live, to be cast out in childhood, seduced
in their prime, despised in old age? But then she began to feel that she was sinning against
God, who had given her more than many had, who had preserved her innocence to this day, and
had so formed and developed her that an abundant living seemed secured to her if God preserved
her health. Little by little, as the hill-tops and the tree-tops peeped out of the mist, so
the love-tokens which God had visibly scattered through her life began to appear--how she had
been guarded here and there, how she had enjoyed many more cheerful days than many, many poor
children, and how she had found parents too, much better than other children had, who, if they
had not taken her to their hearts like father and mother, had still loved her and so brought
her up that she could face all people with the feeling that she was looked upon as a real human
being. No, she might not complain of her good Father up yonder; she felt that His hand had
been over her. And was His hand not over her still? Had He perhaps taken compassion on the
poor lonely girl? Had He decreed, since she had remained faithful till then and tried to keep
herself unspotted by sin, to satisfy now the longing of her heart, to give her a faithful breast
to lay her head on-something of her own, so that one day somebody would weep at her death,
somebody escort her on the sad road to the gruesome grave? Was it perhaps Uli, the loyal, skilful
servant, whom she had loved so long in her reserved heart; whom she could reproach with nothing
save his mistake with Elsie, and that he too had been seized by the delusion that money makes
happiness; who had so faithfully and honestly laid bare his heart and repented of his error?
Was it not a strange dispensation that they had both come to this particular place, that Uli
had not gone away before, that Elsie had had to marry, that the desire had come to her aunt
to give the lease of the farm to Uli? Was it not wonderful how all that fitted in together;
was not the Father's kind hand evident in it? Should she scorn what was offered her? Was it
something hard or repulsive that was asked of her? Now her spirit unveiled its pictures, peopled
the desolate future with them. Uli was her husband; she had taken root in life, in the broad
world; they were the centre about which a great household revolved, circling about their will.
In a hundred different forms this picture rose before her eyes, and ever fairer and lovelier
became the harmony of its colors. She no longer knew that she was driving in the wagon; her
heart felt as light and happy as if she were already breathing the air of that world where
there is no more care, no more sorrow--but just then the wagon bumped over a stone.

Freneli did not feel it; but her aunt awoke with a long yawn and asked, finding it hard to
collect her thoughts, "Where are we, hey? I haven't been asleep, I hope."

Uli said, "If you look sharply, you can see our light yonder through the trees."

"Gracious, how I have slept! I wouldn't have believed it. If only Joggeli doesn't scold because
we're so late."

"It doesn't matter," said Uli; "and Blackie can rest tomorrow; we don't need him."

"Well, well," said his mistress, "then that's all the better. But when horses get home late
and have to start out early, that's maltreatment. Just imagine how we'd feel if they did the
same to us--run, run all the time, and no time for eating and sleeping."

As they heard the approaching wagon, all the inhabitants of Slough Farm rushed out of the doors
with candles and lanterns, some to the horse, others to the wagon; even Joggeli limped up,
saying, "I thought you wouldn't get here today, thought something had happened."

CHAPTER XXV

THE PLOT BEGINS TO UNRAVEL, AND AS IT IS ABOUT TO SNARL AGAIN, A GIRL KNOCKS OUT THE TANGLE
WITH A BEECH CUDGEL

[Freneli's restless eagerness to give Uli her answer banishes sleep, and she rises before all
the others, only to find Uli before her at the wash-trough, and there they plight their faith.
The mistress broaches the subject of the lease to Joggeli, but he will not hear to it. Freneli,
however, is not disturbed, but outlines the plan of action, which succeeds admirably. Now comes
the son-in-law and makes a scene, but Freneli trumps his ace by getting word to Johannes, who,
already suspicious of the cotton-dealer, is glad to have a chance to spoke his wheel for him.
A frightful turmoil ensues, with Johannes pounding the table and threatening the cotton-dealer,
while the latter, unterrified, calmly admits marrying Elsie for her money, and himself draws
up a leasing plan which rather pleases Joggeli, but would exclude Uli. While the others are
arguing about this plan, the son-in-law attempts a private understanding with Freneli, to the
effect that he will further Uli's cause if she will be complaisant with him. Freneli snatches
up a beech-wood stick and belabors him soundly, while he yells for help, and finally escapes
through an open door. Freneli tells her story; the son-in-law sticks his head in at the door
to say she lies, but the beech stick, hurled by Freneli's strong hand, strikes him full in
the face, and, minus three teeth, he finally quits the field of battle, completely routed,
strewing the path of his retreat with noisy but vain threats.]

CHAPTER XXVI

HOW FRENELI AND ULI GET OUT AND ARE FINALLY WEDDED

From this point on affairs went much better than Uli had expected, and many a time he could
not but think that he was faring better than he deserved and was forcibly reminded of what
his old master had said--that a good name was veritable capital and worth more than gold and
goods. The rent was reasonable; but the chief thing was the extras. Some things that he liked
especially, to be sure, Johannes came and seized. That was only reasonable, he said, to balance
up the corn and cherry brandy that his brother-in-law had talked them out of. The extras included
not only the entire live-stock, utensils and dishes, but also the house-furnishings and the
servants' beds. The appraisal was reasonable throughout, so that the receiver could not be
ruined if the things ever had to be returned. There were some considerable reservations, but
they could be overlooked in view of the low rent. Uli was to feed one cow for Joggeli, fatten
two hogs, supply potatoes, sow one measure of flax-seed and two of hemp, and furnish a horse
whenever they wanted to drive. If people are on good terms such reservations are seldom too
heavy; but if misunderstandings arise, then every reservation becomes a stumbling-block.

Uli and Freneli could save most of their money and needed to buy very little; the promised
dowry did not fail; they received a bed and a wardrobe as handsome as could be got in all the
country round. Johannes, without waiting for their choice, sent them a handsome cradle, which
Freneli would not admit for a long time, maintaining it was not meant for them.

So in some anxiety of spirit they saw the time approach when Uli was to take over the lease,
given to him chiefly through confidence in his ability and loyalty. First, however, he was
to be married to Freneli. Since New Year's there had been talk of it; but the girl always had
excuses for delay. Now she had not had time to think it all over; now she had just been thinking
it over and had decided it was better to wait another Sunday or two; again she said she wanted
to enter on her duties as mistress immediately after the wedding, and not still be servant;
or else the shoemaker had her Sunday shoes, and she couldn't go on wooden soles to the pastor
to announce the marriage. So passed one Sunday after another. * * *

Then one Sunday, when the shoemaker had brought the shoes, the dear God sent a terrible snow-storm,
such that no human being could take a dozen steps with open eyes, and a dark night, the thickest
and blackest that ever was, interposed between heaven and earth. While the storm was at his
height and snow and hail rattled against the windows and piled up a finger's length against
the frames, while the wind whistled mournfully about the roof, darkness came in at the windows
thick and gloomy, so that the lamp could scarcely prevail against it, the cats crawled shivering
to the back of the stove, and the dog scratched at the kitchen door and crawled under the stove
with his tail between his legs, Freneli at length said, "Now Uli, get ready and we'll go; now
folks certainly won't be watching us." * * *

When they were ready and opened the kitchen door, Freneli had to make three attempts before
she could get out, and Uli had to look for his hat on the other side of the kitchen. Her aunt
began to wail and to implore them in God's name not to go; they would be killed! But Freneli
summoned all her strength for a third attempt, and vanished in the snow-flurry; her aunt's
lamentations died away unheard. It was really almost a break-neck undertaking, and Uli had
to help the girl. With the wind directly in their faces, they often lost the road, had to stand
still at times and look about them to see where they were and gather breath, or turn around
to let the strongest gusts go by; it took them three-quarters of an hour to go the scant fifteen
minutes' walk to the parsonage. There they first shook off the snow as well as they could,
then knocked on the door. But they knocked long in vain; the sound was swallowed up in the
howling of the wind, which raged awesomely through the chimneys. Then Freneli lost patience;
in place of Uli's reverent knock she now tried her own, and it was such that the indwellers
started up from their seats and the pastor's wife cried, "Mercy on us, what's that?" But the
pastor calmed her by saying that it was either a baptism or a wedding, only that, as usual,
Mary had not heard their first knocks. While Mary answered the door he was lighting a light,
so that the people need not wait long, and as soon as Mary opened the door to say, "There's
two people here, Sir," he was already stepping out.

Back of the house door stood the two, Freneli behind Uli. The pastor, somewhat short, of middle
age, but already venerable in appearance and with shrewd features that could be either very
sharp or very pleasant, raised the light above his head, peered out with head bowed slightly
forward, and cried at last, "Why, Uli, is it you, in such weather? And I suppose Freneli's
behind you," he said, letting the light fall on her. "But dear me," he cried, "in such weather?
And the good mistress let you go? Come, Mary," he called, "brush off these folks for me, and
take this collar and dry it." Mary came up very willingly with her lamp.

Now the pastor's wife opened the door, her light in her hand, and said, "Bring them in here,
why don't you? It's warmer than your study, and Freneli and I know each other right well."
There stood Freneli now in the blaze of three lights, still between Uli and the door, not knowing
what expression to assume. Finally she put a good face on a bad game, as the saying goes, came
forward, and saluted the pastor and his wife quite properly, saying that her aunt bade her
wish them good evening, and Joggeli too. All this Freneli said with the most innocent face
in the world.

"But," said the pastor, "why do you come in such a storm? You might have lost your lives!"

"We couldn't manage it any other way," said Uli, who began to feel the man's duty of taking
his wife's obstinacy on his own shoulders--a duty which one must eventually fulfil of necessity,
either to avoid appearing lien-pecked or to hide the weakness of his wife. "We couldn't wait
any longer," he continued, "as we wanted to ask the pastor to announce the affair here and
there, so that it could be published next Sunday."

They were rather late for that, the pastor said; he didn't know whether the mail would reach
both places before Sunday.

"I am sorry for that," said Uli; "I hadn't thought of it."

Freneli acted as, if she had nothing to do with it, and talked quite interestedly with the
pastor's wife about the flax, which had seemed so fine and still yielded so little when they
combed it. When the formalities were over the pastor said to Uli, "And so you're to be tenant
on Slough Farm? I'm glad of it. You're not like so many servants, that don't even look human,
to say nothing of Christian; you act like a man and like a Christian too."

"Yes," said Uli, "why should I forget God? I need Him more than He does me, and if I forget
Him can I hope that He will think of me when He bestows His gifts and His mercies?"

"Yes, Uli, that's fine," said the pastor, "and I think He has not forgotten you either. You
have a good farm and I think you're getting a good wife."

Here the maid came in with the plates to set the table. Freneli noticed it and stood up to
go, although the hostess told them not to hurry, or, better still, to have supper with them.
But Freneli said they must go or her aunt would think something had happened, thanked the pastor
and asked him to promise that he would come to see them, although they were only leaseholders.
They could always give them a cup of coffee, if they would be satisfied with that. Her heart
always rejoiced to see him, even from a distance. Wishing them happiness and blessing in the
holy state of matrimony, the pastor himself lighted them out with candle held high, and bade
them to wish good evening to aunt and uncle for him. * * *

Nearer, and nearer came the fateful wedding-day. As on the day before some holy Sunday, when
solemn feelings almost irresistibly make their way into the heart, almost as on the eve of
her confirmation, so Freneli felt on the eve of her wedding. Thoughtfully and seriously she
did her housework; perhaps she had never spoken so little as on that day. At times she felt
like weeping, and still she had a friendly smile for all she met. Then again she would sink
into deep reflection, in which she forgot place and time and everything; she knew nothing of
herself, nothing of this brooding. Then when some one spoke to her, she would start up as out
of deep sleep; it seemed to her as if she had only just recovered her eyes and ears, as if
she were falling back upon the earth from another world.

As they were sitting at supper, such an unexpected crash was heard on the hill near the house
that all started up. It was the men and some of the day-laborers, who wished to proclaim to
the world the glory of their new masters. There lies hidden in this shooting and banging at
weddings a deep significance; the only pity is that so many a human life is endangered by it.
No hateful horn-blowing was heard; no horrible serenades, such as envy or enmity offer to bridal
couples, disturbed the peaceful evening. * * *

Uli had a bad night. As they wanted to start at three in the morning the hours for sleep were
few, but it seemed as if they would not pass. He could not sleep; many things busied his thoughts
and tossed him restlessly back and forth, and every thirty seconds he reached for his watch.
The whole importance of what he was now to become rolled itself upon his soul with its entire
weight. Then again lovely pictures danced before his closed eyes.  The spirit-hour was not
long past when he left his bed, in order to give the horse his fodder and to brush and curry
him thoroughly. When he had finished this work he went to the well and began a similar task
on himself. Then playful hands enfolded him and Freneli brought him her loving morning salute.
A glad hope had drawn her to the well, and they lingered to caress each other in the cold morning
air as if mild evening zephyrs were blowing. All anxiety and oppression forsook him now, and
he hastened the preparations for their departure. Soon he could go into the house for the hot
coffee which Freneli had made and for the white bread and cheese her aunt had provided. Little
peace did the girl have at the table, for the fear of having forgotten something would not
let her rest; again and again she looked over the bundle of her belongings, and even then her
aunt's fur-lined shoes were nearly left behind. At last she stood there all in readiness, sweet
and beautiful. The two maids, whom curiosity had drawn from their beds, encircled her with
their lights, and were so absorbed in admiration that they forgot that oil makes spots and
that fire kindles; a little more and Freneli, soaked in oil, would have gone up in flame. Alas,
in the fleshy bosoms of the poor maids heaved the yearning: Oh, if they once had such pretty
clothes, they would be as pretty as Freneli; and then they too could ride off to be married
to such a handsome man!

Long before three o'clock they drove out into the cold, frosty morning. Amid question and answer
the flickering stars paled and sought their sky-blue beds, and the good mother sun began to
weave golden curtains about them out of sparkling rays of light, so that their chaste retirement,
their innocent sleep, might not be sullied by the eyes of curious sinners. Jack Frost shook
his curls more mightily; driven by the sun from the little stars to the dark bosom of the earth,
away from his heavenly sweethearts, he tried to caress earthly ones, wanted to embrace Freneli
and put his cold arms about the warm girl; his white breath was already playing in the tips
of her cap. The girl shivered and begged Uli to take refuge just a moment in a warm room; she
was shaking through and through, and they would reach their destination soon enough.

It was one of the good old taverns whose proprietors do not change every year, but where one
generation succeeds the other. The innkeepers, who were just sitting at their coffee as the
bridal couple entered, recognized Uli at once. Now a very friendly salutation, and the couple
must sit down and celebrate with them, whether or no. They were told not to make a fuss about
it, everything was ready, and nothing was more grateful on such a cold morning than a cup of
hot coffee. Freneli acted somewhat bash-fully, for it seemed bold of her to sit down with them
as if that was her home. But the hostess urged her until she sat down, surveyed her, and began
to praise her to Uli, remarking what a pretty wife he had; there hadn't been a prettier one
there this long time. She was glad he was doing so well; they had all been sorry when he went
away; one always liked to see a friend get along well. Not that there weren't folks that couldn't
bear to see it, but there weren't many such.

Uli asked whether she thought the pastor was up; he would go to him first. He surely would
be, they thought, especially on a Friday, when folks usually came. Not that he was one of the
earliest risers usually, for he liked to lie abed; but he was getting old and so that could
be excused. But he had had a vicar during the winter, and he had never been in sight before
eight; everybody had been vexed that they had to have such a lazy vicar. Here Uli asked whether
it was customary to take the bride along. No, they said; folks seldom waited in the parsonage.
Afterward a good many went back together to get the certificate. But the bashful ones, or those
that thought the pastor would have cause to say something to them, would come right back to
the inn, and only the lads would go for the certificate. After Freneli had declined to go along
and had bidden Uli to let his master know and send word to have his master and mistress come,
he set out.

In his handsome dress and in the dark room the old pastor did not at first recognize him, but
then was heartily rejoiced. "I heard," he said, "that you were doing well, were to get a fine
lease and a good wife, and had saved a tidy sum. It gives me great joy to bless a marriage
that I can hope will remain in the Lord. That you have saved something is not the chief thing;
but you wouldn't have it, and people wouldn't have had so much confidence in you, if you were
not honest and God-fearing, and that's what pleases me most of all. The things of the world
and the things of the spirit are much closer to each other than most people believe. They think
that in order to get along well in the world, you've got to hang up your Christianity on a
nail. But it's just the reverse; that's what causes the everlasting complaint in the world;
that's why most men make their beds so that they have to lie on nettles. Ask yourself if you
would be as happy now if you had stayed a vagabond, despised by all. What do you think--what
sort of a wedding would you have had? Just imagine what kind of a wife you would have got,
and the prospects you would have had, and what people would have said when they saw you going
to be married, and then see how it is today; reckon up the enormous difference. Or what do
you think about it? Is blind fortune, accident, so-called luck, back of it all? Folks are always
saying: 'I don't have any luck; you just can't do anything nowadays.' What do you think, Uli?
Is it only luck? Would you have had this luck if you had stayed a vagabond? But the misfortune
is just that people want to be happy through luck and not by God-fearing lives on which God's
blessing rests. And so it's quite fitting that those who are only waiting for luck should be
deceived by it, until they come to the knowledge that nothing depends on luck, but everything
on the blessing of God."

"Yes, Your Reverence," said Uli, "I can't tell you how much happier I am now than when I was
one of the rabble that run around the streets. But something depends on luck, too; for if I
hadn't come to such a good master no good would have come of me."

"Uli, Uli," said the pastor, "was that luck or God's decree?"

"It's all the same, I think," answered Uli.

"Yes," said the pastor, "it is the same; but it's not a matter of indifference which you call
it, as men think, and that's just where the difference lies. The man that talks of luck doesn't
think of God, nor thank Him, nor seek His grace; he seeks luck of and in the world. He who
speaks of God's providence thinks of Him, thanks Him, seeks to please Him, sees God's hand
in everything; he knows neither bad nor good luck, but to him everything is God's good guidance,
which is to lead him to blessedness. The different words are the expression of a different
state of mind, a different view of life; that is why there is so much difference in the words,
and it is important which one we use. And however good our intentions, still, when we talk
of luck, it makes us frivolous or discontented; but if we speak of God's providence, then these
words themselves awaken thoughts in us and direct our eyes to God."

"Well, yes, Your Reverence," said Uli, "you're about right in that, and I'll bear it in mind."

"I hope you will come back here with your bride after the service?"

"Very willingly, if you wish it," said Uli; "but I'm afraid we shall keep you from your work."

"No one does that," said the pastor; "for it is not only my office, but also my pleasure, to
speak on serious occasions a serious word to hearts in which I can hope for good soil that
will bear fruit. What the pastor says on such occasions is not so soon forgotten."

Meanwhile Freneli had taken off the fur-lined shoes and put on the proper cap, and with her
own hands the hostess had fastened on the wreath. It was made in the Langental fashion, she
said. "But whatever fashion it is, it's becoming to you," she continued.

The bells began to peal and Freneli's heart to beat loudly; her eyes grew fairly dim with dizziness.
The hostess brought her aromatic salts, rubbed her temples with something, and said, "You mustn't
take it so hard, girlie, we all have to go through with it. But go now in God's name; the pastor
doesn't wait long on a Friday; he's a great one for hurrying."

Uli took his Freneli by the hand and walked with her toward the church; solemnly the solemn
peals echoed in their hearts; for the sexton rang the bells with all his skill, so that the
clappers struck on both edges, and not as if they were lame, now on one edge, now on the other.
As they came to the churchyard, the grave-digger was just busy at a grave, and it was quiet
about him; no sheep, no goat came and desecrated man's last resting-place; for in this village
the churchyard was no pasture for unclerical animals.

Suddenly an irresistible melancholy came over Freneli. The venerable mound, the digging of
the new grave, woke gloomly thoughts. "That's no good omen," she whispered; "they are digging
a grave for one of us."

Before the church stood a baptismal party, one godmother holding a child on her arm. "That
means a child-bed for one of us," whispered Uli, to comfort Freneli.

"Yes, that I'm to die in one," she answered; "that I must leave my happiness for the cold grave."

"Just remember," said Uli, "that the dear God does everything and that we mustn't be superstitious,
but believing. That our graves will be dug some day is certain; but that digging a grave means
death to those who come along I never heard. Just think how many people see a grave being dug;
if all of them had to follow soon, think what a lot of deaths there'd be."

"Oh, forgive me," said Freneli; "but the more important a journey is the more alarmed the poor
soul gets and wants to know what will be the outcome, and so takes every encounter as an omen,
bad or good; do you remember when you did the like?"

Then Uli pressed her hand and said, "You're right; but let us put our trust in God and not
worry. What He shall do to us, or give or take, is well done."

They entered the church softly and hesitatingly; went separately to left and right; saw a child
taken into the covenant of the Lord; thought how beautiful it was to be permitted to commend
such a tender and feeble being, body and soul, to the especial care of its Saviour, and how
great a load it must take from the parents' breasts, when they received in the baptism the
assurance that the Lord would be with them and let them feed the child with His spirit, as
the mother fed it with her milk. They joined very reverently in the prayers, and thought how
seriously they would take it when they should have to promise as godparents to see to it that
a child should be brought to the Lord. The customary collect was lost upon them in the importance
of the serious moment that came nearer and nearer. When the pastor stepped forward from behind
the baptismal fount, when Uli had taken Freneli by the hand, and they had stepped forward to
the bench, both sank to their knees, far anticipating the ceremony, held their hands in fervent
clasp, and with all their soul and all their heart and all their strength they prayed and promised
what the words bid them--yes, and much more that gushed forth from their true hearts. And when
they arose, they felt exceedingly firm and cheerful; both felt that they had won a great treasure
for their whole life, which must make them happy, which none could take from them by force
or guile, and with which they must remain united to all eternity.

When outside, Uli begged his bride to go with him to the pastor, to get the certificate. Abashed,
Freneli tried to decline, under the pretext that she did not know him, that it was unnecessary,
and so on. But she went none the less, and no longer timorous, like a thief in the night, but
as well becomes a happy woman at the side of an honest man. Freneli knew how to take herself
in hand.

With kindness they were received by the pastor, a venerable, tall, lean gentleman. There were
not many who, like him, knew how to mingle seriousness and graciousness, so that hearts opened
before him as if touched with a magic wand.

When he had looked at Freneli, he asked, "What do you think, Uli? Was it due to luck or God's
guidance that you got this little wife?"

"Your Reverence," said Uli, "you are right; I think her a gift of God."

"And you, little wife, of what mind are you?"

"I too have no other thought but that the dear God brought us together," said Freneli.

"I think so too," said the pastor; "God willed it; never forget that. But why did He bring
you two together? That one should make the other happy, not only here, but also yonder--don't
forget that either. Marriage is God's sanctuary on earth, in which men are to consecrate and
purify themselves for Heaven. You are good people; be pious and upright; but you both have
faults. In you, Uli, I know one which steadily gains power over you; it is avarice. You, Freneli,
must have some too, but I do not know them. These faults will appear little by little, and
when a fault becomes visible in you, Uli, your wife will be the first to see it, and you can
tell that by her face; and, on the other hand, you can see what comes out in Freneli, and she
can read it in your expression. One almost becomes the other's mirror. In this mirror, Uli,
you should recognize your faults, and try to put them from you out of love for your wife, because
she suffers most from them; and you, wife, should assist him in all gentleness, but should
recognize your own faults too and try to conquer them for Uli's sake, and he will help you
too. If this labor becomes too heavy for love, then God gives us child after child, and each
is an angel come to sanctify us; each brings us new lessons of how to appear rightly before
God, and new desires, to the end that the child be prepared for a sacrifice that shall be holy
and well-pleasing to God. And the more you live together in this spirit, the happier you shall
be in Heaven and on earth; for, believe me, true worldly happiness and heavenly happiness are
to be found on exactly the same road. Believe me: the dear God has brought you together to
help each other gain Heaven, to be prop and staff to each other on the narrow, toilsome way
that leads to eternal life, to level and lighten that way for each other through love, meekness,
and long-suffering--for it is rough and thorny. Now when gloomy days come, when faults break
out in one or the other, or both, then think not of bad luck, as if that made you unhappy,
but of the dear God, who has long seen all these faults and who has brought you together just
so that one should cure the other and help him to mend his ways; that is the purpose and the
task of your marriage. And as love sent the Saviour and led Him to the cross, so love must
be active in you too; that is the power which exceeds all others, which cures and betters.
With cursing and scolding, with threats and blows one can put down the other, but not better
him so that he can be well-pleasing to God. Usually, the worse one grows, the worse the other
becomes too, and so they help each other down to hell. So never forget: God has brought you
together, and He will demand each of the other. Man, He will say, where is your wife's soul?
Woman, He will say, where is your husband's soul? Act so that you can answer with one voice:
Lord, here are we both, here at Thy right hand. Forgive me, little wife, that I have spoken
so seriously to you this morning. But it is better that you be so talked to now, than later,
after Uli is dead, and men think him ruined by your fault; and for Uli too it is better now
than later, when he should have brought you to the grave. But this I think neither of you would
have done, for you both look to me as if God and men might take pleasure in you."

When Freneli heard him speak of dying, the tears rushed to her eyes, and with agitated voice
she said, "O, Your Reverence, there is no thought of offense. I give you a hundred thousand
thanks for your beautiful lesson; I'll think of it as long as I live. And it would make me
very glad if you would some time come into our district and visit us, to see how your words
bear fruit in us, and that we haven't forgotten them."

The pastor said he would surely do so as soon as he came into their district, and that might
very easily happen. He considered them, although they did not live in his parish, as quite
half his sheep, and they might depend upon it that if they prospered and were happy, nobody
would rejoice more than he. And if he could serve them in any way, let it be what it would,
and if it were in his power, they must surely come to him; it would be a pleasure to him.

Thereupon they took their leave and all felt very happy and cheerful at heart. A comforting,
warming feeling had been aroused such as all people ought to feel for each other at every meeting;
then it would be beautiful on God's fair earth. "Isn't that the friendliest gentleman?" said
Freneli as they went away; "he takes things seriously and still he is so kind; I could listen
to him all day long and never get tired of it."

When they reached the inn the guests had not arrived, only the message that Johannes would
come soon, but that his wife could not very well get away. Then Freneli cried, "You must go
for her; drive up there, it's not so very far; if you drive fast, you can be back in half an hour."

"I don't like to overwork Blackie; he has enough trotting to do today," answered Uli. "The
host will probably lend a horse for that little distance."

So it was done, and quite fortunately. Johannes had not yet started, and his wife was very
dubious about sitting in the tavern on a work-day, unless there were a christening; what would
folks say? He should have come to them with his wife, instead of running up a bill there in
the tavern; they would have had enough for them to eat and drink. He knew that well, said Uli;
but that would have been presuming, and the distance was too great beside, for they were going
back today; he had his hands full now. But he begged that they would come; otherwise he would
have to think they were ashamed of them.

"What are you thinking of, Uli?" exclaimed the mistress; "why, you know how much we think of
you. I ought to stay away now, just because you could think such a thing." At the same time
she was getting ready, however, but would not permit her daughter to go along, whom Uli would
have liked to invite too. "I should think so!" said she; "and the cat and the dog to boot;
that would be fine! It's presuming enough for me to come. Just wait, you'll be able to use
your money in other ways--housekeeping has a pretty big maw."

With eagerness Freneli had watched for them from the corner of the inn. All that passed could
not take their eyes from her, and when they were past they would ask, "Whose bride is that?
I haven't seen a prettier girl in along time." Through the whole village went the news of the
pretty bride, and whoever could take the time or had any pretext, went by the inn.

At last Uli came driving up and with great friendliness Freneli welcomed them. "Well, here
you've got to be wife, haven't you?" cried the old mistress; "God bless you!" and stretched
out her plump hand to Freneli. "I just thought you'd make a couple; no two could have suited
each other better."

"Yes, but there wasn't anything at the time; only on the way home they began to torment me,
and I believe that was your fault, too," said Freneli, turning to Johannes and offering him
her hand. "But you just wait; I'll make war on you, for discussing me so behind my back. Nice
customers you are! And if you do that to me any more, I'll pay you back; just wait. We'll talk
about you behind your backs, too."

Johannes answered, and Freneli met him again with well-chosen playful words. When she had gone
out for a moment, the old mistress said, "Uli, you've got an amazingly well-mannered wife;
she can talk well enough to suit a manor-house, and the best of it is that she understands
her work just as well; you don't always find the two together. Look out for her; you'll never
get her match again!" Then Uli too began to sing her praises with tears in his eyes, until
Freneli came back.

As the conversation suddenly halted at her entrance, she looked roguishly at them all in turn,
and said, "There you've been talking about me again behind my back and my left ear tingled;
you just wait! Uli, is it nice to begin accusing me that way, when I turn my back for just
a minute?"

"He didn't accuse you," said the old mistress, "just the opposite; but I told him to look out
for you, for he'd never get your match again. Oh, if men only knew how the second wife often
turns out, they'd be more careful of the first! Not that I can complain. My husband I love
and value; I couldn't get a better one, and he allows me all I want; but I see how it goes
elsewhere."

"I was listening hard," answered Johannes; "but you ended up all right. You're right! In some
places the women have a hard time, in others the men; it always depends on where there's understanding
and then the belief that there's a God in Heaven. Where there's no belief, evil is king."

Hereupon they were invited into the back room. There the soup was already served, a quart of
wine was on the table, and beside it a little pot of sweet, tea. She thought she'd make tea
right off, said the hostess; then anybody could take it that wanted to; some liked it, some
didn't. With unfeigned friendliness Freneli played the hostess, filled the glasses, passed
them around, and urged her guests to empty them; all felt comfortable and at home. Uli sat
down near the master and asked him this and that--how to arrange his stables; what he thought
it paid best to plant; when he sowed this and that; what this or that soil was best for. Johannes
answered like a father, then asked in his turn, and Uli gave his experience.

At first the women listened; but then Freneli's heart overflowed with questions and she sought
advice about the hundred and one things in which a farmer's wife ought to be past-master; told
how she had done things heretofore, but wondered whether they could not be done better and
more profitably. Joyfully the old mistress revealed her secrets, but often said, "I think you
do it better; I must try that too." The comfortable homeliness of the party lured in host and
hostess, sensible people, and both helped to advise and discuss what was best, and showed their
pleasure in much that they heard. And the more they heard the more desire to learn did Uli
and Freneli display and the more humble did they become; they harkened to the experiences of
the older people and impressed them upon their memories, not burdened with useless things.

The afternoon passed by without their knowing it. All at once the sun cast a golden beam into
the room, and all that was in it floated transfigured in its light. They started up in alarm
at the unexpected light, which almost seemed to come from a sudden conflagration. But the hostess
bade them to be at ease; that was only the sunlight; the sun always shone in there in the spring
before it set.

"Mercy, is it so late?" cried Freneli; "we must go, Uli."

"I didn't want to hurry you," said the hostess; "the moon will come up before it's dark."

"How fast this afternoon went by?" said Johannes' wife. "I don't know as I ever remember time
going so fast."

"I feel the same way," said the hostess. "This wedding was something different from that of
so many young couples who are so bored they don't know what to do except drink and play cards,
and make you so tired that you're glad when you see their backs. Why, sometimes I feel, when
I see a lad who can't do anything but curse on his wedding-day, and who sticks out his borrowed
pipe as if he wanted to pull down the moon, that I'd like to give him a punch in the head,
so that he'd have it where other folks have it, and learn to talk like other folks."

The old mistress gave Freneli her hand and said, "You've grown very dear to me, as God lives,
and I won't let you go away until you promise me to come back to us real soon."

"Very gladly," said Freneli, "if it's possible. I've been feeling, too, as if I was talking
to a mother; and if we only lived nearer, I'd come only too often. But we have a big place
and shan't be able to leave it much, Uli and I. But you come to see us--you must promise me
that; you have grown-up children and you know your house will be all right even if you are away."

"Yes, I'll come to see you, I promise. I've often said to Johannes that I wondered what Slough
Farm was like. And listen, if you should want a godmother some time, don't take the trouble
to go a long ways for one. I know one that won't refuse."

"That would be good news," said Freneli, and plucked at a ribbon; "I won't forget it, and will
think of it if the time ever comes; you can never know what may happen."

"Oh, yes, just about," laughed the other, "and then we'll see whether you care for us or not."

Meanwhile Uli had paid the account, ordered the horse hitched up, and now filled all the glasses
and pressed them to drink a farewell glass. Now the host came in with an extra bottle and said
he wanted to do something too and not have his drinks all paid for. He was glad that they had
been with him and he would be willing to put up a bottle of his best every Friday if such couples
would come to be married; he had had his joy of them. When he heard that the bill had been
paid, Johannes insisted that the host bring another bottle at his expense; and the stars were
shining in the sky when, after a most affectionate farewell, such as unrelated people seldom
bid one another, the spirited Blackie swiftly pulled a happy couple away--toward Paradise.

Yes, dear Reader, Freneli and Uli are in Paradise--that is, they live in unclouded love, blessed
by God with four boys and two girls; they live in growing prosperity, for the blessing of God
is their luck; their name has good repute in the land, and far and wide they stand in high
esteem; for their aspiration is high, so high as to try to write their names in Heaven. But
not in a day, but after many a severe conflict did they reach the level road and become certain
of the goal.

       *       *       *       *

THE BRÄSIG EPISODES FROM UT MINE STROMTID[4]

TRANSLATED BY M.W. MACDOWALL

EDITED AND ABRIDGED BY EDMUND VON MACH, PH.D.

[UT MIND STROMTID: A story of my youth, depicts the joys and sorrows of a North German country
community during the lean years of the second quarter of the nineteenth century. Human passions
rent the hearts of men then as now. Nobility of soul distinguished some, and was lacking in
many. Education was not universal, but common sense perhaps rather frequent. The best road
to a happy life, however, was then as always, a kindly heart, a strict sense of justice, and
a dash of unconscious humor. This lucky combination endeared Uncle Bräsig to everyone, and
enabled him to make his blustering way cheerfully, yet serenely conscious of all joys and sorrows,
amid the vicissitudes of life. He understood the human heart, whether it beat in the breast
of a child or a tired old man, of a villain or of a loving wife. Nobody, however, was dearer
to him than Mina and Lina Nüssler, his god-children. And naughty little girls these angelic
twins were too, without respect for grandfather's peruke or grandmother's Sunday cap. They
placed them on their own curly locks, and danced the "Kringelkranz-Rosendanz," and in so doing
broke Mina's favorite toy-jar. In their eagerness to have it mended they ran from the house.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Just as the children entered the yard a little man came in at the gate. And this little man
had a red face, and a very imposing red nose which he always held cocked up in the air. He
wore a square cap of no particular color with a tassel in front, and a long-tailed, loose,
gray linen-coat. He always kept his feet turned out in an exaggerated first position which
made his short legs look as if they were fastened to his body in the wrong way. He had striped
trousers and long boots with yellow tops. He was not stout, and yet he was by no means thin,
in fact his figure was beginning to lose its youthful proportions.

The children walked on, and when they had got near enough for the farm-bailiff--for such was
the calling of the little man--to see what they were wearing, he stood still, and raised his
bushy yellow eye-brows till they were quite hidden under his pointed cap, treating them as
if they were the most beautiful part of his face, and must therefore be put away in a safe
place out of all danger: "Bless me!" cried he. "What's the matter? What on earth have you been
about? Why you've got the whole of your old grandparent's Sunday-finery on your heads!" The
two little girls allowed themselves to be deprived of their borrowed plumes without remonstrance,
and showing the broken jar, said that the wheel-wright was to mend it. "What!" exclaimed Mr.
farm-bailiff Bräsig--that was the way he liked to be addressed--"is it possible that there
is such insummate folly in the world? Lina, you are the eldest and ought to have been wiser;
and, Mina, don't cry any more, you are my little god-child, and so I'll give you a new jar
at the summer-fair. And now get away with you into the house." He drove the little girls before
him, and followed carrying the peruke in one hand and the cap in the other.

When he found the sitting-room empty, he said to himself: "Of course, every one's out at the
hay. Well, I ought to be looking after my hay too, but the little round-heads have made such
a mess of these two bits of grandeur, that they'd be sure to get into a scrape if the old people
were to see what they've been after; I must stay and repair the mischief that has been done."

With that he pulled out the pocket-comb that he always carried about with him to comb his back-hair
over to the front of his head, and so cover the bald place that was beginning to show. He then
set to work at the peruke, and soon got that into good order again. But how about the cap?
"What in the name of wonder have you done to this, Lina? It's morally impossible to get it
back to the proper fassong. Ah--let me think. What's the old lady like on Sunday afternoons?
She has a good bunch of silk curls on each side of her face, then the front of the cap rises
about three inches higher than the curls; so the thing must be drawn more to the front. She
hasn't anything particular in the middle, for her bald head shows through, but it always goes
into a great bunch at the back where it sticks out in a mass of frills. The child has crushed
that part frightfully, it must be ironed out." He put his clenched fist into the cap and pulled
out the frills, but just as he thought he was getting them into good order, the string that
was run through a caser at the back of the frilled mass gave way, and the whole erection flattened
out. "Faugh!" he cried, sending his eye-brows right up in the air. "It wasn't half strong enough
to keep it firm. Only a bit of thread! And the ends won't knot together again! God bless my
soul! whatever induced me to meddle with a cap? But, wait a bit, I'll manage it yet." He thrust
his hand into his pocket, and drew out a quantity of string of different sizes, for like every
farm-bailiff who was worth anything he always carried a good supply of such things about with
him. He searched amongst his store for some thing that would suit the case in hand. "Whip-cord
is too thick; but this will do capitally," and then he began to draw a piece of good strong
pack-thread through the caser. It was a work of time, and when he had got about half of it
done, there was a knock at the door; he threw his work on the nearest chair, and called out:
"Come in."

The door opened, and Hawermann entered with his little girl in his arms. Bräsig started up.
"What in the--" he began solemnly, then interrupting himself, he went on eagerly: "Charles
Hawermann, where have you come from?" "From a place, Bräsig, where I have nothing more to look
for," said his friend. "Is my sister at home?" "Every one's out at the hay; but what do you
mean?" "That it's all up with me. All the goods that I possessed were sold by auction the day
before yesterday, and yesterday morning"--here he turned away to the window--"I buried my wife."
"What? what?" cried the kind-hearted old farm-bailiff, "good God! your wife. Your dear little
wife?" and the tears ran down his red face. "Dear old friend, tell me how it all happened."
"Ah, how it all happened?" repeated Hawermann, and seating himself, he told the whole story
of his misfortunes as shortly as possible.

Meanwhile, Lina and Mina approached the strange child slowly and shyly, stopping every now
and then, and saying nothing, and then they went a little nearer still. At last Lina summoned
courage to touch the sleeve of the stranger's frock, and Mina showed her the bits of her jar:
"Look, my jar is broken." But the little girl looked round the room uneasily, till at last
she fixed her great eyes on her father.

"Yes," said Hawermann, concluding his short story, "things have gone badly with me, Bräsig;
I still owe you thirty pounds, don't ask for it now, only give me time, and if God spares my
life, I'll pay you back every farthing honestly." "Charles Hawermann, Charles Hawermann," said
Bräsig, wiping his eyes, and blowing his imposing nose, "you're--you're an ass! Yes," he continued,
shoving his handkerchief into his pocket with an emphatic poke, and holding his nose even more
in the air than usual, "you're every bit as great an ass as you used to be!" And then, as if
thinking that his friend's thoughts should be led into a new channel, he caught Lina and Mina
by the waist-band and put them on Hawermann's knee, saying "There, little round-heads, that's
your uncle." Just as if Lina and Mina were playthings and Hawermann were a little child who
could be comforted in his grief by a new toy. He, himself, took Hawermann's little Louisa in
his arms and danced about the room with her, his tears rolling down his cheeks the while. After
a short time he put the child down upon a chair, upon the very chair on which he had thrown
his unfinished work, and right on the top of it too.

In the meanwhile the household had come back from the hay-field, and a woman's clear voice
could be heard outside calling to the maids to make haste: "Quick, get your hoop and pails,
it'll soon be sunset, and this year the fold's[5] rather far off. We must just milk the cows
in the evening. Where's your wooden-platter, girl? Go and get it at once. Now be as quick as
you can, I must just go and have look at the children." A tall stately woman of five-and-twenty
came into the room. She seemed full of life and energy, her cheeks were rosy with health, work,
and the summer air, her hair and eyes were bright, and her forehead, where her chip-hat had
sheltered it from the sun, was white as snow. Any one could see the likeness between her and
Hawermann at first sight; still there was a difference, she was well-off, and her whole manner
showed that she would work as hard from temperament as he did from honor and necessity.

To see her brother and to spring to him were one and the same action: "Charles, brother Charles,
my second father," she cried throwing her arms round his neck; but on looking closer at him,
she pushed him away from her, saying: "What's the matter? You've had some misfortune! What is it?"

Before he had time to answer his sister's questions, her husband, Joseph Nüssler, came in,
and going up to Hawermann shook hands with him, and said, taking as long to get out his words
as dry weather does to come: "Good day, brother-in-law; won't you sit down?" "Let him tell
us what's wrong," interrupted his wife impatiently. "Yes," said Joseph, "sit down and tell
us what has happened. Good-day, Bräsig; be seated, Bräsig." Then Joseph Nüssler, or as he was
generally called, young Joseph, sat down in his own peculiar corner beside the stove. He was
a tall, thin man, who never could hold himself erect, and whose limbs bent in all sorts of
odd places whenever he wanted to use them in the ordinary manner. He was nearly forty years
old, his face was pale, and almost as long as his way of drawling out his words, his soft blond
hair, which had no brightness about it, hung down equally long over his forehead and his coat
collar. He had never attempted to divide or curl it. When he was a child his mother had combed
it straight down over his brow, and so he had continued to do it, and whenever it had looked
a little rough and unkempt, his mother used to say: "Never mind, Josy, the roughest colt often
makes the finest horse." Whether it was that his eyes had always been accustomed to peer through
the long hair that overhung them, or whether it was merely his nature cannot be known with
any certainty, but there was something shy in his expression, as if he never could look anything
full in the face, or come to a decision on any subject, and even when his hand went out to
the right, his mouth turned to the left. That, however, came from smoking, which was the only
occupation he carried out with the slightest perseverance, and as he always kept his pipe in
the left corner of his mouth, he, in course of time, had pressed it out a little, and had drawn
it down to the left, so that the right side of his mouth looked as if he were continually saying
"prunes and prism," while the left side looked as if he were in the habit of devouring children.

There he was now seated in his own particular corner by the stove, and smoking out of his own
particular corner of his mouth, and while his lively wife wept in sympathy with her brother's
sorrow, and kissed and fondled him and his little daughter alternately, he kept quite still,
glancing every now and then from his wife and Hawermann at Bräsig, and muttering through a
cloud of tobacco smoke: "It all depends upon what it is. It all depends upon circumstances.
What's to be done now in a case like this?"

Bräsig had quite a different disposition from young Joseph, for instead of sitting still like
him, he walked rapidly up and down the room, then seated himself upon the table, and in his
excitement and restlessness swung his short legs about like weaver's shuttles. When Mrs. Nüssler
kissed and stroked her brother, he did the same; and when Mrs. Nüssler took the little child
and rocked it in her arms, he took it from her and walked two or three times up and down the
room with it, and then placed it on the chair again, and always right on the top of the grandmother's
best cap.

"Bless me!" cried Mrs. Nüssler at last, "I quite forgot. Bräsig, you ought to have thought
of it. You must all want something to eat and drink!" She went to the blue cupboard, and brought
out a splendid loaf of white household bread and some fresh butter, then she went out of the
room and soon returned with sausages, ham and cheese, a couple of bottles of the strong beer
that was brewed on purpose for old Mr. Nüssler, and a jug of milk for the children. When everything
was neatly arranged on a white table cloth, she placed a seat for her brother, and lifting
her little niece, chair and all, put her beside her father. Then she set to work and cut slices
of bread, and poured out the beer, and saw that there was enough for everybody.

"I'll be ready to give you something presently," she said, stroking her little girls' flaxen
heads fondly, "but I must see to your little cousin first. Here's a chair for you, Bräsig--Come,
Joseph." "All right," said Joseph, blowing a last long cloud of smoke out of the left corner
of his mouth, and then dragging his chair forward, half sitting on it all the time. "Charles,"
said Bräsig, "I can recommend these sausages. Your sister, Mrs. Nüssler, makes them most capitally,
and I've often told my housekeeper that she ought to ask for the receipt, for you see the old
woman mixes up all sorts of queer things that oughtn't to go together at all; in short, the
flavor is very extraordinary and not in the least what it ought to be, although each of the
ingredients separately is excellent, and made of a pig properly fattened on peas." "Mother,
give Bräsig some more beer," said Joseph. "No more, thank you, Mrs. Nüssler. May I ask for
a little kümmel instead? Charles, since the time that I was learning farming at old Knirkstädt
with you, and that rascal Pomuchelskopp, I've always been accustomed to drink a tiny little
glass of kümmel at breakfast and supper, and it agrees with me very well, I am thankful to
say. But, Charles, whatever induced you to have any business transactions with such a rascal
as Pomuchelskopp? I told you long ago that he was not to be trusted, he's a regular old Venetian,
he's a cunning dog, in short, he's a--Jesuit." "Ah, Bräsig," said Hawermann, "we won't talk
about it. He might have treated me differently; but still it was my own fault, I oughtn't to
have agreed to his terms. I'm thinking of something else now. I wish I could get something
to do!" "Of course, you must get a situation as soon as possible. The Count, my master, is
looking out for a steward for his principal estate, but don't be angry with me for saying so
Charles, I don't think that it would do for you. You see, you'd have to go to the Count every
morning with laquered boots, and a cloth coat, and you'd have to speak High-German, for he
considers our provincial way of talking very rude and uncultivated. And then you'd have all
the women bothering you, for they have a great say in all the arrangements. You might perhaps
manage with the boots, and the coat, and the High-German--though you're rather out of practice--but
you'd never get on with the women. The Countess is always poking about to see that all's going
on rightly in the cattle-sheds and pig-sties,--in short--it's, it's as bad as Sodom and Gomorrah."
"Bless me!" cried Mrs. Nüssler, "I remember now. The farm-bailiff at Pümpelhagen left at the
midsummer-term, and that would just be the place for you, Charles." "Mrs. Nüssler is right,
as usual," said Bräsig. "As for the Councillor[6] at Pümpelhagen"--he always gave the squire
of Pümpelhagen his professional title, and laid such an emphasis on the word councillor that
one might have thought that he and Mr. von Rambow had served their time in the army together,
or at least had eaten their soup out of the same bowl with the same spoon--"as for the Councillor
at Pümpelhagen, he is very kind to all his people, gives a good salary, and is quite a gentleman
of the old school. He knows all about you too. It's just the very thing for you, Charles, and
I'll go with you tomorrow. What do you say, young Joseph?" "Ah!" said Mr. Nüssler meditatively,
"it all depends upon circumstances." "Good gracious!" exclaimed Mrs. Nüssler with a look of
anxiety on her pretty face. "I'm forgetting everything today. If grandfather and grandmother
ever find out that we've been having a supper-party here without their knowledge, they'll never
forgive me as long as I live. Sit a little closer children. You might have reminded me, Joseph."
"What shall I do now?" asked Joseph, but she had already left the room.

A few minutes later she came back, accompanied by the two old people. There was an expression
of anxious watchfulness and aimless attention in both faces, such as deaf people often have,
and which is apt to degenerate into a look of inanity and distrust. It is a very true saying
that when a husband and wife have lived many years together, and have shared each other's thoughts
and interests, they at last grow to be like one another in appearance, and even when the features
are different the expression becomes the same. Old Mr. and Mrs. Nüssler looked thoroughly soured,
and as if they had never had the least bit of happiness or enjoyment all their lives long,
such things being too expensive for them; their clothes were threadbare and dirty, as if they
must always be saving, saving, and even found water a luxury that cost too much money. There
was nothing comfortable about their old age, not a single gleam of kindliness shone in their
lack-lustre eyes, for they had never had but one joy, and that was their son Joseph, and his
getting on in the world. They were now worn out, and everything was tiresome to them, even
their one joy, their son Joseph, was tiresome, but they were still anxious and troubled about
his getting on in the world, that was the only thing they cared for now. The old man had become
a little childish, but his wife had still all her wits about her, and could spy and pry into
every hole and corner, to see that everything was going on as she wished.

Hawermann rose and shook hands with the old people, while his sister stood close by looking
at them anxiously, to see what they thought of the visitor. She had already explained to them
in a few words, why her brother had come, and that may have been the reason that the old faces
looked even sourer than usual, but still it might be because she had provided a better supper
than she generally did. They seated themselves at table. The old woman caught sight of Hawermann's
little girl: "Is that his child?" she asked. Her daughter-in-law nodded. "Is she going to remain
here?" she asked. Her daughter-in-law nodded again. "O--h!" said the old woman, drawing out
the word till it was long enough to cover all the harm she thought the cost of the child's
keep would bring upon her Joseph. "Yes, these are hard times," she continued, as though she
thought speaking of the times would best settle the question, "very hard times, and every man
has enough to do to get on in the world himself." Meanwhile the old man had done nothing but
stare at the bottle of beer and at Bräsig's glass: "Is that my beer?" he asked. "Yes," shouted
Bräsig in his ear, "and most excellent beer it is that Mrs. Nüssler brews, it's a capital rajeunissimang
for a weak stomach!" "What extravagance! What extravagance!" grumbled the old man. His wife
ate her supper, but never took her eyes off the oak chest opposite. Young Mrs. Nüssler, who
must have studied the peculiarities of her mother-in-law with great care, looked to see what
was the matter, and found to her horror and dismay that the cap was gone from its stand. Good
gracious! what had become of it? She had plaited it up that very morning, and hung it on the
stand. "Where's my cap?" the old woman at last inquired. "Never mind, mother," said her daughter-in-law
bending toward her, "I'll get it directly." "Is it done up yet?" The young woman nodded, and
thought, surely grandmother will be satisfied now, but the old woman glanced into every corner
of the room to see what she could find out. Bräsig's countenance changed when he heard the
cap spoken of, and he looked about him hastily to see where the "beastly thing" could have
got to, but in another moment old Mrs. Nüssler pointed at little Louisa Hawermann, and said
with a venomous smile, like a stale roll dipped in fly-poison: "It must be plaited all over
again." "What's the matter?" cried her daughter-in-law, and starting up as she spoke, she saw
the ends of the cap ribbons hanging down below the hem of the child's frock; she lifted her
niece off the chair, and was going to have picked up the cap, but the old woman was too quick
for her. She seized her crumpled head-gear, and when she saw the flattened puffs, and Bräsig's
bit of pack-thread hanging half in and half out of the caser, her wrath boiled over, and holding
up her cap so that every one might see it, exclaimed: "Good for nothing chit!" and was going
to have struck the little girl over the head with her cap.

But Bräsig caught her by the arm and said: "The child had nothing to do with it," and then
growled out in a half whisper: "The old cat!" At the same moment loud crying was to be heard
behind the grandmother's chair, and Mina sobbed: "I'll never, never do it again," and Lina
sobbed: "And I'll never do it again." "Bless me!" cried young Mrs. Nüssler, "it was the little
girls who did all the mischief. Mother, it was our own children that did it." But the old woman
had been too long accustomed to turn everything to her own advantage, not to know how to make
a judicious use of her deafness; she never heard what she did not want to hear; and she did
not want to hear now. "Come," she shouted, and signed to her husband. "Mother, mother," cried
her daughter-in-law, "give me your cap, and I'll set it to rights." "Who's at the fold?" asked
the old woman as she left the room with old Joseph. Young Joseph lighted his pipe again. "Good
gracious!" said Mrs. Nüssler, "she's quite right there, I ought to be at the fold. Ah well,
grandmother won't be civil to me again for a month." "Crusty," said Bräsig, "was an old dog,
and Crusty had to give in at last." "Don't cry any more, my pets," said the mother, wiping
her little girls' eyes. "You didn't know what harm you were doing, you are such stupid little
things. Now be good children, and go and play with your cousin, I must go to my work. Joseph,
just keep an eye on the children, please," and then Mrs. Nüssler put on her chip-hat, and set
off to the fold where the cows were milked.

"A mother-in-law's the very devil!" said Bräsig. "But you, young Joseph," he continued, turning
to Mr. Nüssler, who was smoking as calmly as if what had happened was nothing to him, "ought
to be ashamed of yourself for allowing your mother to bully your wife." "But," said young Joseph,
"how can I interfere? I am her son." "You needn't actually strike her," said Bräsig, "because
your parents are given you by God, but you might give her a little filial advice now and then,
such as befits an obedient son, and so prevent the devil of dispeace getting into the house.
And as for you, Charles Hawermann, don't take a little tiff like this to heart, for your sister
has a cheerful disposition, and an affectionate nature, so she'll soon be on good terms with
the old skin-flints again, and they can't get on without her, she's the mainstay of the household."

"But now," and he pulled an enormous watch out of his pocket, the kind of watch that is called
a warming-pan, "it's seven o'clock, and I must go and look after my work-people." "Wait," said
Hawermann, "I'll go part of the way with you. Good-by for the present, Joseph." "Good-by, brother-in-law,"
said young Joseph from his corner.

As soon as they were out of doors Hawermann asked "I say, Bräsig, how could you speak of the
old people in such a way before their son?" "He's quite accustomed to it, Charles. No one has
a good word for the two old misers, they've quarreled with all the neighbors, and as for the
servants, they take very good care to keep out of the old wretches' sight." "My poor sister!"
sighed Hawermann; "she used to be such a merry light-hearted girl, and now, shut up in a house
with such people, and such a Nuss (slow) of a man." "You're right enough there, Charles, he
is an old Nuss, and Nüssler (slow-coach) is his name; but he never bullies your sister, and
although he is such an ass that he can manage nothing himself, he has sense enough to see that
your sister is quite able to keep everything straight." "Poor girl! She married that man for
my sake, to make my way easier for me, she said; and for our old mother's sake, to give her
a comfortable home with one of her children in her latter days." "I know, I know, Charles.
I know it from my own experience. Don't you remember it was during the rye-harvest, and you
said to me, Zachariah, you said, you must be in love, for you're leading in your rye quite
wet. And I said; how so? On the Sunday before that we had had spruce-beer, and your sister
was one of the party, or else I shouldn't have led in the rye in such weather. And then I told
you that if I didn't change my mind your sister was the only one of my three sweethearts that
I'd marry. Then you laughed heartily, and said, she was too young. What has being young to
do with it? I asked. And then you said that my other two sweethearts came first, and so they
ought to have the preference. And then you laughed again, and didn't seem to believe that I
was in earnest. A short time afterward my lord the Count changed his mind, and said he wouldn't
have a married bailiff. And then a little more time passed, and it was too late. Young Joseph
made her an offer, and your mother begged her so hard to take him, that she consented. Ah well,
that marriage ought never to have been," and Bräsig looked down gravely. After a moment's silence
he went on--"When I saw the twins I felt drawn to them, and thought that they might have been
my own, and I almost wished that the old woman, old Joseph, and young Joseph were in their
graves. It was indeed a happy day for the old Jesuits when your sister brought her loving heart
and cheerful nature into their house, if it had been any one else there would have been murder
done long ago."

While they were talking they had left the village behind them, and were now beside the large
garden. Suddenly Hawermann exclaimed: "Look there, the two old people are on the top of the
hill yonder." "Yes," said Bräsig with a derisive chuckle, "there they are, the hypocritical
old Jesuits, standing in their hiding-place." "Hiding-place?" asked Hawermann, astonished.
"Up there on the hill?" "Even so, Charles, the old creatures can trust no one, not even their
own children, and when they want to say anything to each other that they can't explain by their
usual signs, they always go to the very top of the hill where they can see that there are no
eavesdroppers, and shout their secrets in one another's ears. Look at them cackling away, the
old woman has laid another dragon's egg, and now they're both going to hatch it." "How eagerly
they're talking," said Hawermann. "Do you see how the old woman is gesticulating? What can
it all be about?" "I know what they are laying down the law about, for I know them well. And
Charles," he continued after a short silence, "it is better that you should understand the
whole state of the case at once, and then you'll know how to act."

"They're talking about you, and your little girl." "About me, and my little girl!" repeated
Hawermann in astonishment. "Yes, Charles--don't you see. If you had come with a great purse
full of money, they would have received you with open arms, for money is the only thing for
which they have the slightest respect; but as it is they regard you and the child in the light
of beggarly poor relations who will take the very bread out of the mouth of their unfortunate
son." "Oh!" sighed Hawermann, "why didn't I leave the child with the Rassows? Who is to take
care of her? Can you advise me what to do? I can't leave her here in my sister's charge for
my sister's sake." "Of course you'd like to have her near you. Well, Charles, I'll tell you
something. You must remain at the Nüsslers tonight. Tomorrow we'll go and see the Councillor
at Pümpelhagen: if we succeed there we'll look out for a good place for the child in the neighborhood;
and if we don't succeed, we'll go to the town and board her for the present with Kurz, the
shopkeeper. And now good-night, Charles! Don't be down-hearted, everything will look brighter
soon." And so he went away.

Bräsig arrived in good time next morning to go to Pümpelhagen with Hawermann. Mrs. Nüssler
was sitting in the porch paying the farm-servants, and Joseph was sitting beside her smoking
while she worked. Neither of the old people had come down yet, for the grandmother had said
to her daughter-in-law, she, at least, could not join them in the parlor, for she had nothing
to put on her head; and the grandfather had said, they could all be quite happy without him.
"That's really kind of them," said Bräsig. "There's no fear of our dinner being spoilt now
by their bad temper, for, Mrs. Nüssler, I'm going to spend the day with Charles. Come, Charles,
we must be off. Good-by little round-heads."

When they were out in the yard Bräsig stood still, and said: "Look, Charles, did you ever see
anything more like the desert of Sahara? One heap of manure here and another there! And look,
that's the drain old Joseph cut from the farm-yard to the village horse-pond. And as for the
roofs," he continued, "they have enough straw to make new ones, but the old people think money
expended on thatching sheer waste. I come here often, and for two reasons; firstly because
of my stomach, and secondly because of my heart. I've always found that well-cooked food is
not only pleasant to the taste, but also produces a wholesome exhilaration when followed by
one of the little rages I generally get into here. And I come here for the sake of your sister
and the little round-heads. I know that I am of use to her, for young Joseph just rolls on
smoothly like the wheel of the coach that runs every winter from here to Rostock. How I should
like to have him as leader in a three-horse team, harnessed into a farm cart, and then drive
him with my whip!" "Ah!" said Hawermann as they came to a field, "they've got very good wheat
here." "Yes, it's pretty fair, but what do you think they were going to have had there instead?
Rye! And for what reason? Simply because old Joseph had sown rye in that field every year for
twenty-one years!" "Does their farm extend to the other side of the hill?" "No, Charles, it
isn't quite such a fat morsel as all that, like bacon fried in butter and eaten with a spoon!
No, no, the wheat on the top of the hill is mine." "Ah, well, it's odd how soon one forgets.
Then your land comes down as far as this?" "Yes, Charles; Warnitz is a long narrow estate,
it extends from here on the one side as far as Haunerwiem on the other. Now stand still for
a moment, I can show you the whole lie of the country from this point. Where we are standing
belongs to your brother-in-law, his land reaches from my wheat-field up there to the right,
as far as that small clump of fir-trees to the left. You see, Rexow is quite a small farm,
there are only a few more acres belonging to it on the other side of the village. To the right
up there is Warnitz; and in front of us, where the fallow ground begins, is Pümpelhagen; and
down there to the left, behind the little clump of firs, is Gürlitz."

"Then Warnitz is the largest!" "No, Charles, you've mistaken me there. Pümpelhagen is the best
estate in the neighborhood, the wheat-land there produces forty-two loads, and that is eight
more than Warnitz can show. It would be a blessing if all the other places were like it. The
Councillor is a good man, and understands farming, but you see his profession obliges him to
live in Schwerin, so he can't attend to Pümpelhagen. He has had a good many bailiffs of one
kind or another. He came into the estate when everything was very dear, and there are a considerable
number of apothecaries[7] on it, so that he must often feel in want of money, and all the more
so that his wife is extravagant, and likes to live in a constant whirl of gaiety. He is a worthy
man and kind to his people, and although the von Rambows are of very old family--my master,
the Count, often asks him to dinner, and he will not admit any but members of the nobility
to the honor of his acquaintance--he goes about quite doucimang, and makes no fuss about his
position."

Hawermann listened attentively to all that was said, for if he succeeded in getting the place
of bailiff, these things would all be of importance to him, but his thoughts soon returned
to the subject of his greatest present anxiety. "Bräsig," he said, "who is the best person
to take charge of my little girl?" "I can't think of any one. I'm afraid that we must take
her to the town to Kurz. Mrs. Kurz is an excellent woman, and he, well he is a good hand at
a bargain like all tradesmen. Only think, he sold me a pair of trousers last year. I wanted
them for Sundays--they were a sort of chocolate color: well listen: the first morning I put
them on, I went through the clover-field, and when I came out of it, my trousers were as red
as lobsters, as high as the knee--bright scarlet I assure you. And then he sent me some kümmel,
it was Prussian made, wretched sweet stuff, and very bad. I returned it, and told him a bit
of my mind. But he won't take the trousers back, and tells me he never wore them. Does the
fellow imagine that I will wear red trousers? Look, Charles, that's Gürlitz down there to the
left." "And that, I suppose, is Gürlitz church-steeple?" asked Hawermann. "Yes!" said Bräsig,
raising his eye-brows till they were hidden by the brim of his hat--he always wore a hat on
Sunday--and opening his mouth as wide as he could, he stared at Hawermann as if he wanted to
look him through and through. "Charles," he exclaimed, "you spoke of Gürlitz church-steeple,
and as sure as your nose is in the middle of your face the parson at Gürlitz must take your
child." "Parson Behrens?" asked Hawermann. "Yes, the same Parson Behrens who taught you and
me at old Knirkstädt." "Ah, Bräsig, I was just wishing last night that such a thing were possible."
"Possible? He must do it. It would be the best thing in the world for him to have a little
child toddling about his knees, and growing up under his care, for he has no children of his
own, has let all the glebe land, and has nothing whatever to do but to read his books and study,
till any other man would see green and yellow specks dancing before his eyes even with looking
at him from a distance. It would be a capital thing for him, and Mrs. Behrens is so fond of
children that the little ones in the village cling to her skirts whenever she goes there. She
is also a most excellent worthy woman, and so cheerful that she and your sister get on capitally
together."

"If it could only be," cried Hawermann. "What do we not both owe that man, Zachariah, don't
you remember that when he was assistant to the clergyman at Knirkstädt, he held an evening
class during the winter, and taught reading and writing, and how kind he always was to us stupid
boys?" "Yes, Charles, and how Samuel Pomuchelskopp used to get behind the stove and snore till
he nearly took the roof off, while we were learning the three R's. Don't you remember when
we got to the rule of three in our sums, and tried to get the fourth unknown quantity?

"Ah yes, in quickness I had the best of it, but in correctness, you had. You got on better
than I did in o'thography, but in style, in writing letters, and in High German, I was before
you. And in these points I'm much improved since then, for I've made them my study, and of
course every one has his own speshialitee. Whenever I see the parson I feel bound to thank
him for having educated me so well, but he always laughs and says he owes me far more for letting
his glebe at such a good rent for him. He is on very friendly terms with me, and if you settle
down here, I'll take you to call and then you'll see it for yourself."

Meanwhile they had reached Pümpelhagen, and Bräsig took Hawermann quite under his protection
as they crossed the court-yard, and addressing the old butler, asked if his master was at home
and able to see them. He would announce the gentlemen, was the servant's reply, and say that
Mr. Farm-bailiff Bräsig was there. "Yes," said Bräsig. "You see, Charles, that he knows me,
and the Councillor knows me also--and--did you notice?--announce! That's what the nobility
always have done when any one calls on them. My lord the Count has three servants to announce
his visitors; that is to say, one servant announces to another who it is that has called, and
the valet tells his lordship. Sometimes queer mistakes are made, as with the huntsman the other
day. The first foot man announced to the second: 'The chief huntsman,' and the second added
the word 'master,' and the third announced the arrival of a 'grandmaster of the huntsmen.'
So the Count came forward very cordially to receive the strange gentleman who had come to see
him, and--he found no one but. old Tibäul the rat-catcher."

The butler now returned and showed the two friends into a good-sized room, tastefully, but
not luxuriously furnished, and in the centre of the room was a large table covered with papers
and accounts. A tall thin man was standing beside the table when they entered; he was a thoughtful-looking,
gentle-mannered man, and the same simplicity was observable in his dress as in the furniture
of his room. He appeared to be about fifty-two or three, and his hair was of an iron gray color;
he was perhaps shortsighted, for, as he went forward to receive his visitors, he picked up
an eye-glass that was lying on the table, but without using it: "Ah, Mr. Bräsig," he said quietly,
"what can I do for you?" Uncle Bräsig now involved himself in such a labyrinth of words in
his desire to speak grandly as befitted his company, that he would never have extricated himself
if the squire had not come to the rescue. Looking more attentively at Hawermann he said: "You
want * * *? but," he interrupted himself, "I ought to know you. Wait a moment. Were you not
serving your apprenticeship twelve years ago on my brother's estate?" "Yes, Sir, and my name
is Hawermann." "Of course it is. And to what do I owe the pleasure of seeing you here?" "I
heard that you were looking out for a farm-bailiff, and as I was in want of just such a place
* * *." "But I thought you had a farm in Pomerania?" interrupted the squire. Now was the time
for Bräsig to speak if he was going to say anything of importance, so he exclaimed: "It's quite
true, Mr. Councillor von Rambow, that he had one, had it, but has it no longer, and it's no
use crying over spilt milk. Like many other farmers he met with reverses, and the hardness
and wickedness of his landlord ruined him. What do you think of that, Sir?"

At this moment there was a loud shout of laughter behind Bräsig's back, and when he turned
round to see who it was he found himself face to face with a boy of ten or twelve years old.
Mr. von Rambow also smiled, but fortunately it never occurred to Bräsig that their amusement
could mean anything but satisfaction with a well delivered speech, so he went on seriously:
"And then he came a regular cropper." "I'm very sorry to hear it," said Mr. von Rambow. "Yes,"
he continued with a, sigh, "these are very hard times for farmers, I only hope they'll change
soon. But now to business--Alick, just run upstairs and see if breakfast is ready. It is quite
true that I am looking out for a new bailiff, as I have been obliged to part with the last
man, because of--well, his carelessness in keeping accounts--but," said he, as his son opened
the door and announced that breakfast was ready, "you hav'n't had breakfast yet, we can finish
our talk while we eat it." He went to the door, and standing there signed to his guests to
precede him. "Charles," whispered Bräsig, "didn't I tell you? Quite like one of ourselves?"
But when Hawermann quietly obeyed the squire's sign and went out first, he raised his eyebrows
up to his hair, and stretched out his hand as though to pull his friend back by his coat-tails.
Then sticking out one of his short legs and making a low bow, he said, "Pardon me--I couldn't
think of it--the Councillor always has the paw." His way of bowing was no mere form, for as
he had a long body and short legs it was both deep and reverential.

Mr. von Rambow went on first to escape his guest's civilities, and Bräsig brought up the rear.
The whole business was talked over in all its bearings during breakfast; Hawermann got the
place of bailiff with a good salary to be raised in five or six years, and only one condition
was made, and that was that he should enter on his duties at once. The new bailiff promised
to do so, and the following day was fixed for taking stock of everything in and about the farm,
so that both he and his employer might know how matters stood before the squire had to leave
Pümpelhagen. Then Bräsig told the "sad life-story" of the old thoroughbred, which had come
down to being odd horse about the farm, and which he "had had the honor of knowing from its
birth," and told how it "had spavin, grease and a variety of other ailments, and so had been
reduced to dragging a cart for its sins." After that he and Hawermann took leave of Mr. von Rambow.

"Bräsig," said Hawermann, "a great load has been taken off my heart. Thank God, I shall soon
be at work again, and that will help me to bear my sorrow. Now for Gürlitz--Ah, if we are only
as fortunate there." "Yes, Charles, you may well say you are fortunate, for you are certainly
wanting in the knowledge of life and fine tact that are necessary for any one to possess who
has to deal with the nobility. How could you, how could you go out of the room before the Councillor?"
"I only did as he desired me, Bräsig, and I was his guest, not his servant then. I wouldn't
do so now, and believe me, he'll never ask me to do it again." "Well, Charles, let me manage
the whole business for you at the parsonage. I'll do it with the greatest finesse." "Certainly
Bräsig, it will be very kind of you to do it for me; if it were not for my dear little girl,
I should never have the courage to ask such a favor. If you will take the task off my shoulders,
I shall look upon it as the act of a true friend."

When they passed Gürlitz church they heard from the singing that service was still going on,
so they determined to wait in the parsonage till it was over, but on entering the sitting-room,
a round active little woman about forty years old came forward to receive them. Everything
about her was round, arms and fingers, head, cheeks and lips; and her round eyes twinkled so
merrily in her round smiling face that one would at once jump to the conclusion that she had
never known sorrow, and her every action was so cheery and full of life that one could easily
see that she had a warm heart in her breast. "How d'ye do, Mr. Bräsig, sit down, sit down.
My pastor is still in church, but he would scold me if I allowed you to go away. Sit down,
Sir--who are you? I should have liked to have gone to church today, but only think, the clergyman's
seat broke down last Sunday; lots of people go to it, you see, and one can't say 'no,' and
old Prüsshawer, the carpenter, who was to have mended it this week, is down with a fever."
Her words poured out smoothly like polished billiard-balls rolled by a happy child over the
green cloth.

Bräsig now introduced Hawermann as Mrs. Nüssler's brother. "And so you are her brother Charles.
Do sit down, my pastor will be delighted to see you. Whenever Mrs. Nüssler comes here she tells
us something about you, and always in your praise--Mr. Bräsig can vouch for that. Good gracious,
Bräsig, what have you got to do with my hymn-book? Just put it down, will you. You never read
such things, you are nothing but an old heathen. These are hymns for the dying, and what are
hymns for the dying to you? You are going to live for ever. You're not a whit better than the
wandering Jew! One has to think of death sometimes, and as our seat is broken, and the old
carpenter has a fever, I have been reading some meditations for the dying." While saying this
she quickly picked up her books and put them away, carefully going through the unnecessary
ceremony of dusting a spotless shelf before laying them down on it. Suddenly she went to the
door leading to the kitchen, and stood there listening; then exclaiming: "I was sure I heard
it--the soup's boiling over," hastened from the room. "Well, Charles--wasn't I right? Isn't
she a cheery, wholesome-natured woman? I'll go and arrange it all for you," and he followed
Mrs. Behrens to the kitchen.

Hawermann looked round the room, and admired the cleanly, comfortable, home-like, and peaceful
look of everything around him. Over the sofa was a picture of our Saviour, and encircling it,
above and below, were portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Behrens' relations, some colored, some black,
some large, and some small. In the picture of our Lord, His hands were raised in blessing,
so Mrs. Behrens had hung the portraits of her relatives beneath it that they might have the
best of the blessing, for she always regarded herself as the "nearest." She had hung her own
portrait, taken when she was a girl, and that of her husband in the least prominent place over
against the window, but God's sun, which shone through the white window-curtains, and gilded
the other pictures, lighted up these two first of all. There was a small book-case containing
volumes of sacred and profane literature all mixed up together, but they looked very well indeed,
for they were arranged more in accordance with the similarity of their bindings than with that
of their contents. Let no one imagine that Mrs. Behrens did not care for reading really good
standard works, because she spoke the Provincial German of her neighborhood. Whoever took the
trouble to open one of the books, which had a mark in it, would see that she was quite able
to appreciate good writing, and her cookery-book showed that she studied her own subjects as
thoroughly as her husband did his, for the book was quite full of the notes and emendations
she had written at the sides of the pages in the same way as Mr. Behrens made notes in his
books. As for her husband's favorite dishes she "knew them," she said, "by heart, and had not
to put in a mark to show where they were to be found."

And it, was in this quiet home that Hawermann's little daughter was to spend her childhood,
if God let him have his wish. The raised hands in the Saviour's picture would seem to bless
his little girl, and the sunlight would shine upon her through these windows, and in those
books she would read what great and good men had written, and by their help would gradually
waken from childish dreams into the life and thoughts of womanhood.

As he was sitting there full of alternating hopes and fears, Mrs. Behrens came back, her eyes
red with weeping: "Don't say another word, Mr. Hawermann, don't say another word. Bräsig has
told me all, and though Bräsig is a heathen, he is a good man, and a true friend to you and
yours. And my pastor thinks the same as I do, I know that, for we have always been of one mind
about everything. My goodness, what hard-hearted creatures the old Nüsslers are," she added,
tapping her foot impatiently on the floor. "The old woman," said Bräsig, "is a perfect harpy."
"You're right, Bräsig, that's just what she is. My pastor must try to touch the conscience
of the two old people; I don't mean about the little girl, she will come here and live with
us, or I know nothing of my pastor."

Whilst Hawermann was expressing his deep gratitude to Mrs. Behrens her husband came in sight.
She always talked of him as "her" pastor, because he belonged to her soul and body, and "pastor"
because of his personal and official dignity. He had nothing on his head, for those high soft
caps that our good protestant clergy now wear in common with the Russian popes were not the
fashion at that time, in the country at least, and instead of wide bands, resembling the white
porcelain plate on which the daughter of Herodias received the head of John the Baptist from
her stepfather, he wore little narrow bands, which his dear wife Regina had sewed, starched
and ironed for him in all Christian humility, and these little bits of lawn she rightly held
to be the true insignia of his office, and not the gown, which was fastened to his collar with
a small square piece of board. "For, my dear Mrs. Nüssler," she said, "the clerk has a gown
exactly the same as that, but he dar'n't wear bands, and when I see my pastor in the pulpit
with these signs of his office on, and watch them rising and falling as he speaks, I sometimes
think that they look like angels' wings upon which one might go straight away up to heaven,
except that the angels wear their wings behind, and my pastor's are in front."

The parson was not an angel by any means, and was the last man in the world to think himself
one, but still his conduct was so upright, and his face so expressive of love and good-will,
that any one could see in a moment that he was a good man, and that his was a serious, thoughtful
mode of life, and yet--when his wife had taken off his gown and bands--there was a bright sparkle
in his eye that showed he did not at all disdain innocent mirth. He was a man who could give
good counsel in worldly matters as well as in spiritual, and he was always ready to stretch
out a helping hand to those in need of it.

He recognized Hawermann the moment he saw him, and welcomed him heartily. "How d'ye do, dear
old friend, what an age it is since I saw you last. How are you getting on? Good morning, Mr.
Bräsig." Just as Bräsig was about to explain the reason of his and Hawermann's visit, Mrs.
Behrens, who had begun to take off her husband's clerical garments, called out: "Don't speak,
Mr. Hawermann; Bräsig be quiet, leave it all to me. I'll tell you all about it," she continued,
turning to her husband, "for the story is a sad one--yes, Mr. Hawermann, terribly sad--and
so it will be better for me to speak. Come," and she carried her pastor off to his study, saying
in apology for doing so as she left the room: "I am the nearest to him, you know."

When Mr. Behrens returned to the parlor with his wife, he went straight up to Hawermann, and
taking his hand, said: "Yes, dear Hawermann, yes, we'll do it. We'll do all that lies in our
power with, very great pleasure. We have had no experience in the management of children, but
we will learn--won't we, Regina?" He spoke lightly, for he saw how deeply Hawermann felt his
kindness, and therefore wished to set him at ease. "Reverend Sir," he exclaimed at last, "you
did much for me in the old days, but this * * *." Little Mrs. Behrens seized her duster, her
unfailing recourse in great joy or sorrow, and rubbed now this, and now that article of furniture
vigorously, indeed there is no saying whether she might not have dried Hawermann's tears with
it, had he not turned away. She then went to the door and called to Frederika: "Here, Rika,
just run down to the weaver's wife, and ask her to send me her cradle, for," she added, addressing
Bräsig, "she doesn't require it." And Bräsig answered gravely: "But Mrs. Behrens, the child
isn't quite a baby." So the clergyman's wife went to the door again, and called to the servant
"Rika, Rika, not the cradle. Ask her to lend me a crib instead, and then go to the parish-clerk's
daughter, and see if she can come this afternoon. Good gracious! I forgot it was Sunday! But
if thine ass falls into a pit, and so on--yes, ask her if she will come and help me to stuff
a couple of little mattresses. It isn't a bit heathenish of me to do this, Bräsig, for it's
a work of necessity, as much so as when you have to save the Count's wheat on a Sunday afternoon.
And, my dear Mr. Hawermann, the little girl must come to us this very day, for Frank," turning
to her husband, "the old Nüsslers will grudge the child her food, and Bräsig, bread that is
grudged * * *" she stopped for breath, and Bräsig put in: "Yes, Mrs. Behrens, bread that is
grudged maketh fat, but the devil take that kind of fatness!" "You old heathen! How dare you
swear so in a Christian parsonage," cried Mrs. Behrens. "But the short and the long of it is
that the child must come here today." "Yes, Mrs. Behrens," said Hawermann, "I'll bring her
to you this afternoon. My poor sister will be sorry; but it's better for her and her household
peace that it should be so, and for my little girl * * *." He then thanked the clergyman and
his wife gratefully and heartily, and when he had said good-by, and he and Bräsig were out
of doors, he drew a long breath of relief, and said "Everything looked dark to me this morning,
but now the sun has begun to shine again, and though I have a disagreeable bit of business
before me, it is a happy day." "What is it that you have to do?" asked Bräsig. "I must go to
Rahnstädt to see old Moses. He has held a bill of mine for seventy-five pounds for the last
eighteen months. He took no part in my bankruptcy, and I want to arrange matters with him."
"Yes, Charles, you ought to make everything straight with him as soon as you can, for old Moses
is by no means the worst of his kind. Now then, let's lay out our plan of operations for today.
We must return to Rexow at once, dine there, and after dinner young Joseph must get the carriage
ready for you to take your little girl to Gürlitz; from Gürlitz you should drive on to Rahnstädt,
and then in the evening come over to Warnitz and spend the night with me, and early next morning
you can be at Pümpelhagen with the Councillor, who expects to see you in good time." "That
will do very well," said Hawermann.

[Wheat was again growing in the field by the mill, as when Hawermann came to Pümpelhagen eleven
years before. The same people still lived in the various villages and estates, only the manor
house of Gürlitz had changed hands, for Pomuchelskopp, the man who had brought about Hawermann's
failure in Pomerania, lived there now. His was the only house which uncle Bräsig shunned, everywhere
else he was the welcome guest bringing sunshine whenever he arrived. His breezy common sense
often recalled his friends from useless trains of thought. "Bräsig," said Hawermann, "I don't
know what other people may think of it, but life and work always seem to me to be one and the
same thing." "Oh, ho! Charles, I have you now! You learnt that from pastor Behrens. But, Charles,
that is a wrong way of looking at it, it goes clean against Scripture. The Bible tells us of
the lilies of the field, how they toil not, neither do they spin, and yet our Heavenly Father
feeds them. And if God feeds them, they are alive, and yet they do not work. And when I have
that confounded gout, and can do nothing--absolutely nothing, except flap the beastly flies
away from my face--can I be said to work? And yet I am alive, and suffer horrible torture into
the bargain." Gradually this torture grew so unbearable that uncle Bräsig had to submit to
treatment at a watering place.]

Spring was gone, and summer had come, when one Sunday morning Hawermann received a letter from
Bräsig dated from Warnitz, in which his friend requested him to remain at home that day, for
he had returned and intended to call on him that afternoon. When Bräsig arrived, he sprang
from his saddle with so much force that one might have thought he wanted to go through the
road with both legs. "Oho!" cried Hawermann, "how brisk you are! You're all right now, ar'n't
you?" "As right as a trivet, Charles. I've renewed my youth." "Well, how have you been getting
on, old boy?" asked Hawermann, when they were seated on the sofa and their pipes were lighted.
"Listen, Charles. Cold, damp, watery, clammy-that's about what it comes to. It's just turning
a human being into a frog, and before a man's nature is so changed, he has such a hard time
of it that he begins to wish that he had come into the world a frog: still, it isn't a bad
thing! You begin the day with the common packing, as they call it. They wrap you up in cold,
damp sheets, and then in woollen blankets, in which they fasten you up so tight that you can't
move any part of your body except your toes. In this condition they take you to a bath-room,
and a man goes before you ringing a bell to warn the ladies to keep out of your way. Then they
place you, just as God made you, in a bath, and dash three pails of water over your bald head,
if you happen to have one, and after that they allow you to go away. Well, do you think that
that's the end of it? Nay, Charles, there's more to follow; but it's a good thing all the same.
Now you've got to go for a walk in a place where you've nothing earthly to do. I've been accustomed
all my life to walk a great deal, but then it was doing something, ploughing or harrowing,
spreading manure or cutting corn, and there I'd no occupation whatever. While walking you are
expected to drink ever so many tumblers of water, ever so many. Some of the people were exactly
like sieves, they were always at it, and they used to gasp out 'What splendid water it is!'
Don't believe them, Charles, it is nothing but talk. Water applied externally is bad enough
in all conscience, but internally it's still more horrible. Then comes the sitz-bath. Do you
know what a bath at four degrees below zero is like? It's very much what you would feel if
you were in hell, and the devil had tied you down to a glowing iron chair, under which he kept
up a roaring fire; still it's a good thing! Then you've to walk again till dinner-time. And
now comes dinner. Ah, Charles, you have no idea what a human being goes through at a water-cure
place! You've got to drink no end of water. Charles, I've seen ladies, small and thin as real
angels, drink each of them three caraffes as large as laundry-pails at a sitting--and then
the potatoes! Good gracious, as many potatoes were eaten in a day as would have served to plant
an acre of ground! These water-doctors are much to be pitied, their patients must eat them
out of house and home. In the afternoon the water-drinking goes on as merrily as before, and
you may now talk to the ladies if you like; but in the morning you may not approach them, for
they are not then dressed for society. Before dinner some of them are to be seen running about
with wet stockings, as if they had been walking through a field of clover, others have wet
bandages tied round their heads, and all of them let their hair hang down over their shoulders,
and wear a Venus' girdle round their waists, which last, however, is not visible. But in the
afternoon, as I said, you may talk to them as much as you like, but will most likely get short
answers unless you speak to them about their health, and ask them how often they have been
packed, and what effect it had on them, for that is the sort of conversation that is most approved
of at a water-cure establishment. After amusing yourself in this way for a little you must
have a touche (douche), that is a great rush of ice-cold water--and that's a good thing too.
Above all, Charles, you must know that what every one most dislikes, and whatever is most intensely
disagreeable is found to be wholesome and good for the constitution." "Then you ought to be
quite cured of your gout," said Hawermann, "for of all things in the world cold water was what
you always disliked the most." "It's easy to see from that speech that you've never been at
the water-cure, Charles. Listen--this is how the doctor explained the whole thing to me. That
confounded gout is the chief of all diseases--in other words, it is the source of them all,
and it proceeds from the gouty humor which is in the bones, and which simply tears one to pieces
with the pain, and this gouty substance comes from the poisonous matter one has swallowed as
food--for example, kümmel or tobacco--or as medicine at the apothecary's. Now you must understand
that any one who has gout must, if he wishes to be cured, be packed in damp sheets, till the
water has drawn all the tobacco he has ever smoked, and all the küimmel he has ever drunk out
of his constitution. First the poisonous matter goes, then the gouty matter, and last of all
the gout itself." "And has it been so with you?" "No." "Why didn't you remain longer then?
I should have stayed on, and have got rid of it once for all if I had been you." "You don't
know what you are talking about, Charles. No one could stand it, and no one has ever done it
all at once. * * * But now let me go on with my description of our daily life. After the touche
you are expected to walk again, and by the time that is finished it has begun to grow dusk.
You may remain out later if you like, and many people do so, both gentlemen and ladies, or
you may go into the house and amuse yourself by reading. I always spent the evening in studying
the water-books written by an author named Franck, who is, I understand, at the head of his
profession. These books explain the plan on which the water-doctors proceed, and give reasons
for all they do; but it's very difficult to understand. I could never get further than the
two first pages, and these were quite enough for me, for when I'd read them I felt as light-headed
and giddy as if I had been standing on my head for half an hour. You imagine, no doubt, Charles,
that the water in your well is water? He does not think so! Listen, fresh air is divided into
three parts: oxygen, nitrogen, and black carbon; and water is divided into two parts: carbon
and hydrogen. Now the whole water-cure the'ry is founded on water and air. And listen, Charles,
just think of the wisdom of nature: when a human being goes out into the fresh air he inhales
both black carbon and nitrogen through his windpipe, and as his constitution can't stand the
combination of these two dreadful things, the art of curing by water steps in, and drives them
out of his throat. And the way that it does so is this the oxygen grapples with the carbon,
and the hydrogen drives the nitrogen out of your body. Do you understand me, Charles?" "No,"
said Hawermann, laughing heartily, "you can hardly expect me to do that." "Never laugh at things
you don't understand, Charles. Listen--I have smelt the nitrogen myself, but as for the black
carbon, what becomes of it? That is a difficult question, and I didn't get on far enough with
the water-science to be able to answer it. Perhaps you think that parson Behrens could explain
the matter to me, but no, when I asked him yesterday he said that he knew nothing about it.
And now, Charles, you'll see that I've still got the black carbon in me, and that I shall have
that beastly gout again."

"But, Zachariah, why didn't you remain a little longer and get thoroughly cured?" "Because,"
and Bräsig cast down his eyes, and looked uncomfortable, "I couldn't. Something happened to
me. Charles," he continued, raising his eyes to his friend's face, "you've known me from my
childhood, tell me, did you ever see me disrespectful to a woman?" "No, Bräsig, I can bear
witness that I never did." "Well, then, just think what happened. A week ago last Friday the
gout was very troublesome in my great toe--you know it always begins by attacking the small
end of the human wedge--and the water-doctor said: 'Mr. Bailiff,' he said, 'you must have an
extra packing, Dr. Strump's colchicum is the cause of this, and we must get rid of it.' Well,
it was done; he packed me himself, and so tight that I had hardly room to breathe, telling
me for my comfort that water was more necessary for me than air, and then he wanted to shut
the window. 'No,' I said, 'I understand the the'ry well enough to know that I must have fresh
air, so please leave the window open.' He did as I asked, and went away.[8] I lay quite still
in my compress thinking no evil, when suddenly I heard a great humming and buzzing in my ears,
and when I could look up, I saw a swarm of bees streaming in at my window, preceded by their
queen. I knew her well, Charles, for as you know I am a bee-keeper. One spring the school-master
at Zittelwitz and I got fifty-seven in a field. I now saw that the queen was going to settle
on the blanket which the doctor had drawn over my head. What was to be done? I couldn't move.
I blew at her, and blew and blew till my breath was all gone. It was horrible! The queen settled
right on the bald part of my head--for I had taken off my wig as usual to save it--and now
the whole swarm flew at my face. That was enough for me. Quickly I rolled out of bed, freed
myself from the blanket, wriggled out of the wet sheets, and reached the door, for the devil
was at my heels. I got out at the door, and striking out at my assailants blindly and madly,
shrieked for help. God be praised and thanked for the existence of the water-doctor--his name
is Ehrfurcht--he came to my rescue, and, taking me to another room, fetched me my clothes,
and so after a few hours' rest I was able to go down to the dining-room-salong as they call
it--but I still had half a bushel of bee-stings in my body. I began to speak to the gentlemen,
and they did nothing but laugh. Why did they laugh, Charles? You don't know, nor do I. I turned
to one of the ladies, and spoke to her in a friendly way about the weather; she blushed. What
was there in the weather to make her red? I can't tell, nor can you, Charles. I spoke to the
lady who sings, and asked her very politely to let us hear the beautiful song which she sings
every evening. What did she do, Charles? She turned her back upon me! I now busied myself with
my own thoughts, but the water-doctor came up to me, and said courteously: 'Don't be angry
with me, Mr. Bailiff, but you've made yourself very remarkable this afternoon.' 'How?' I asked.
'Miss von Hinkefuss was crossing the passage when you ran out of your room, and she has told
every one else in strict confidence.' 'And so,' I said, 'you give me no sympathy, the gentlemen
laugh at me, and the ladies turn their pretty backs upon me. No, I didn't come here for that!
If Miss von Hinkefuss had met me, if half a bushel of bee-stings had been planted in her body,
I should have asked her every morning with the utmost propriety how she was. But let her alone!
There is no market where people can buy kind-heartedness! Come away, doctor, and pull the stings
out of my body.' He said he couldn't do it. 'What!' I asked, 'can't you pull bee-stings out
of a man's skin?' 'No,' he said, 'that is to say, I can do it, but I dare not, for that is
an operation such as surgeons perform, and I have no diploma for surgery from the Mecklenburg
government.' 'What?' I asked, 'you are allowed to draw gout out of my bones, but it is illegal
for you to draw a bee-sting out of my skin? You dare not meddle with the outer skin which you
can see, and yet you presume to attack my internal maladies which you can't see? Thank you!'
Well, Charles, from that moment I lost all faith in the water-doctor, and without faith they
can do nothing as they themselves tell you when it comes to the point. So I went away quietly
and got old Metz, the surgeon at Rahnstädt, to draw out the stings. That was the end of the
water-cure; still it's a good thing; one gets new ideas in a place like that, and even if one's
gout is not cured, one gains some notion of what a human being can suffer. And now, Charles,
this is a water-book I have brought you, you can study it in the winter-evenings."

[Three more years had passed, and Louisa Hawermann at the parsonage was repaying her father's
and her foster parents' love and care by growing up the loveliest girl of the neighborhood.
Uncle Bräsig, to be sure, would have qualified this by saying "next to his two round-heads."
No qualification, however, was justified in the eyes of Frank von Rambow and Fred Triddelfitz,
the two young men studying agriculture under Hawermann. They fell in love with her, each after
his own fashion. Frank deeply and lastingly, Fred--whom uncle Bräsig loved to call the "gray
hound"--ardently if not irretrievably. This, however, he did not know, and as he felt his blood
seething, he was thoroughly wretched.]

No human being can stand more than a certain amount of pain, after that it becomes unbearable
and a remedy must be found; now the only remedy a lover finds effectual is an interview with
his sweetheart. Matters had come to such a pass with Fred that he could no longer exist without
seeing Louisa, so he began to lie in wait for her in all sorts of holes and corners. Every
hollow-tree was a good hiding-place from which he could watch for her coming, every ditch was
of use in concealing his advance, every hill was a look-out from which he could sweep the country
with his gaze, and every thicket served him for an ambush. He was so much in earnest that he
could not fail to succeed in his attempts to see her, and he often gave Louisa a great fright
by pouncing out upon her, when she least expected him, and when she was perhaps thinking of
* * * we will not say Frank. Sometimes he was to be seen rearing his long slight figure out
of a bush like a snake in the act of springing, sometimes his head would appear above the green
ears of rye like a seal putting its head above water, and sometimes as she passed under a tree
he would drop down at her side from the branches where he had been crouched like a lynx waiting
for its prey. At first she did not mind it much, for she looked upon it as a new form of his
silly practical joking, and so she only laughed and talked to him about some indifferent subject;
but she soon discovered that a very remarkable change had taken place in him. He spoke gravely
and solemnly and uttered the merest nothings as if they had been the weightiest affairs of
state. He passed his hand meditatively across his forehead as if immersed in profound thought,
and when she spoke of the weather, he laid his hand upon his heart as if he were suffering
from a sudden pain in the side. When she asked him to come to Gürlitz he shook his head sadly,
and said: Honor forbade him to do so. When she asked him about her father, his words poured
forth like a swiftly flowing stream: The bailiff was an angel; there never was, and never would
be such a man again on the face of the earth; his father was good and kind, but hers was the
prince of fathers. When she asked after Miss Fidelia, he said: He never troubled himself about
women, and was utterly indifferent to almost all of them; but once when, as ill luck would
have it, she asked him about Frank, his eyes flashed and he shouted "Ha!" once or twice with
a sort of snort, laughed scornfully, caught hold of her hand, slipped a bit of paper into it,
and plunged head foremost into the rye-field, where he was soon lost to sight. When she opened
the paper she found that it contained the following effusion:

  TO HER.

  "When with tender Silvery light
   Luna peeps the clouds between,
   And 'spite of dark disastrous night
   The radiant sun is also seen
   When the wavelets murmuring flow
   When oak and ivy clinging grow,
   Then, O then, in that witching hour
   Let us meet in my lady's bow'r.

  "Where'er thy joyous step doth go
   Love waits upon thee ever,
   The spring-flow'rs in my hat do show
   I'll cease to love thee never.
   When thou'rt gone from out my sight
   Vanished is my sole delight,
   Alas! Thou ne'er canst understand
   What I've suffered at thy hand.

  "My vengeance dire! will fall on him,
   The foe who has hurt me sore,
   Hurt me! who writes this poem here;
   Revenge!! I'll seek for evermore.

                                            FREDERIC TRIDDELFITZ.
  Pümpelhagen, July 3d, 1842."

The first time that Louisa read this effusion she could make nothing of it, when she had read
it twice she did not understand it a bit better, and after the third reading she was as far
from comprehending it as she had been at first; that is to say, she could not make out who
it was on whom the unhappy poet wished to be revenged. She was not so stupid as not to know
that the "Her" was intended for herself.

She would have liked to have been able to think that the whole affair was only a silly joke,
but when she remembered Fred's odd manner she was obliged to confess that it was anything but
a joke, and so she determined to keep as much as possible out of his way. She was such a tender-hearted
little creature that she was full of compassion for Fred's sufferings. Now pity is a bridge
that often leads to the beautiful meadows stretched on the other side of it full of rose-bushes
and jasmine-hedges, which are as attractive to a maiden of seventeen as cherries to a bird,
and who knows whether Louisa might not have been induced to wander in those pleasant groves,
had she not been restrained by the thought of Fred riding amongst the roses on the old sorrel-horse,
holding a great slice of bread and butter in one hand and a bottle of beer in the other. In
spite of her compassion for him she could not help laughing, and so remained safely on this
side of the bridge; she liked best to watch Fred from a distance, for the sorrel might have
lain down in the pond again, and Fred might have smeared her with the bread and butter. The
stupidest lads under the sun may often win the love of girls of seventeen, and even men with
only an apology for a heart are sometimes successful, but alas for the young fellow who has
ever condescended to wear motley, he can never hope to win his lady's affection, for nothing
is so destructive to young love as a hearty fit of laughter.

Louisa could not restrain her laughter when she thought of the ludicrous scene that had just
taken place, but she suddenly stopped in the midst of her merriment, for she felt as if a soft
hand had just taken hers, and as if a pair of dark eyes were looking at her affectionately.
Perhaps this thought may have come into her head because she caught sight of Frank coming toward
her from the distance. The next moment it flashed into her mind that it was Frank on whom Fred
wished to be revenged, and so when they met a deep blush overspread her face, and feeling that
that was the case made her so angry with herself that she blushed even deeper than before.
Frank spoke to her in his usual courteous manner about indifferent things, but she was strangely
shy, and answered him at cross-purposes, for her mind was full of Fred and his vows of vengeance.

"Heaven knows what's the matter," thought Frank as he was returning home after having walked
a short way with her, "she isn't at all like herself today. Is it my fault? Has she had anything
to vex or annoy her? What was that piece of paper she was tearing up?" Meanwhile he had reached
the place where he had met her. Some of the bits of paper were still lying on the ground, and
he saw on one of them, without picking it up: "Revenge! I'll seek for evermore. Frederic Triddelfitz."
This made him curious, for he knew Fred's handwriting, so he looked about and found two more
bits of paper, but when he put them together he could make nothing more out of them but "clinging
grows * * * that witching hour * * * meet in my lady's bow'r. * * * Spring flowers. * * * I'll
cease to * * * from out my sight * * * my sole delight. * * * Alas! thou ne'er * * * my vengeance
dire! * * * The foe * * * Revenge!! I'll seek for evermore. Frederic Triddelfitz." The wind
had blown away all the rest.

There was not much to be made out of it, but after a time Frank came to the conclusion that
Fred Triddelfitz was in love with Louisa, dogged her footsteps, and wanted to be revenged on
her for some reason only known to himself. It was a ridiculous affair altogether, but still
when he remembered that Fred Triddelfitz was as full of tricks as a donkey's hide of gray hair,
and that he might easily do something that would be of great annoyance to Louisa, Frank determined
to keep watch, and not to let Fred out of his sight when he went in the direction of Gürlitz.

Fred had broken the ice, he had spoken, he had done his part, and it was now Louisa's turn
to speak if anything was to come of it. He waited, and watched, and got no answer. "It's a
horrid shame," he said to himself. "But she isn't up to this sort of thing yet, I must show
her what she ought to do." Then he sat down and wrote a letter in a feigned hand.

  Address: "To Her that you know of.
  Inscription: "Sweet Dream of my soul!

"This letter can tell you nothing, it only contains what is absolutely necessary for you to
learn, and you will find it in the third rose-bush in the second row. I'll tell you the rest
by word of mouth, and will only add: Whenever you see a cross drawn in white chalk on the garden-door,
you will find the disclosure of my sentiments under the flower-pot beside the third rose-bush
in the Second row. The waving of a pocket-handkerchief on the Gürlitz side of the house will
be a token of your presence, and of your desiring an interview; my signal, on the other hand,
will be whistling three times on the crook of my stick. (Our shepherd taught me how to do it,
and love makes everything easy to learn.) Randyvoo: The large ditch to the right of the bridge.

"Ever thine!!

"From Him whom you know of."

"P.S. Pardon me for having written this in my shirt-sleeves, it is such a frightfully hot day.----"

This letter fell into the wrong hands, for it was Mrs. Behrens who found it when she went out
to water her flowers, whilst Louisa, who was now a notable little housekeeper, was busy indoors
making gooseberry jam. The clergyman's wife had no scruples about opening and reading the letter,
and after she had done so she was quite convinced that it was intended for Louisa, and had
been written by her nephew Fred.

She could not tell Louisa of her discovery, for that would simply have been playing into Fred's
hands, she had therefore to content herself with talking of letters in general, and trying
to find out in a roundabout kind of way whether Louisa had received any epistles such as she
had in her pocket, but as the girl did not understand what she meant, she determined not to
tell her pastor what had happened. For, she thought, why should she make him angry by telling
him of the foolish boy's love troubles, and besides that, it would have been very painful for
her to have to give evidence against her own flesh and blood--and unfortunately Fred was her
sister's son. But she wished with all her heart that she could have had a few minutes' quiet
talk with the culprit himself, and that was impossible, for she never saw him by any chance.

She was very silent and thoughtful for a few days, and took the entire charge of watering the
flowers into her own hands. It was just as well that she did so, for soon afterward she found
a letter drenched with rain under the third rose-bush in the second row. This letter was still
more to the point than the last:

  Address: "To Her, the only woman I adore.
  Inscription: "Soul of my existence!!

"We are surrounded by pitfalls; I am aware that our foe watches my every step. Cowardly spy,
I scorn you! Have no fear, Beloved, I will conquer all difficulties. One bold deed will bring
our love recognition. At two o'clock tomorrow afternoon, when the Dragon is asleep that guards
my treasure, I shall expect to See your signal with the pocket-handkerchief. As for myself,
I shall then be hidden behind the manure heap on the bank beside the large ditch, and shall
whistle three times on the crook of my stick to entice you to come to me. And--even though
the powers of hell should fight against me--I have sworn to be ever

THINE"

Mrs. Behrens was furious when she read this letter. "The * * *! The * * *! Oh you young rascal!
'When the dragon is asleep!' The wretch means me by that! But wait a bit! I'll entice you to
come to me, and though the powers of hell won't touch you, if once I get hold of you, I'll
give you such a box on the ear as you never had before!"

About two o'clock next day, Mrs. Behrens rose from her sofa and went into the garden. The parlor-door
creaked and the garden-door banged as she went out, and the parson, hearing the noise, looked
out at the window to see what it was that took his wife out at that unusual hour, for as a
general rule she did not move from her sofa till three had struck. He saw her go behind a bush
and wave her pocket-handkerchief. "She's making signs to Hawermann, of course," said he, and
then he went and lay down again. But the fact of the matter is that she only wanted to show
her sister's son how much she longed to get within reach of his ears. But he did not come,
nor yet were his three whistles to be heard. She returned to her room very crossly, and when
her husband asked her at coffee time to whom she had been making signals in the garden, she
was so overwhelmed with confusion that in spite of being a clergyman's wife--I am sorry to
have to confess it--she told a lie, and said that she had found it so frightfully close she
had been fanning herself a little.

On the third day after that she found another letter:

  Address: "To Her who is intended for me by Fate.
  Inscription: "Sun of my dark existence!!

"Have you ever suffered the pains of hell? I have been enduring them since two o'clock in the
afternoon of the day before yesterday when I was hidden behind the manure-heap. The weather
was lovely, our foe was busy in the clover-field, and your handkerchief was waving in the perfumed
air like one of those tumbler pigeons I used to have long ago. I was just about to utter the
three whistles we had agreed upon, when that stupid old ass Bräsig came up to me, and talked
to me for a whole hour by the clock about the farm. As soon as he was gone I hastened to the
ditch, but, oh agony! I was terribly disappointed. The time must have seemed very long to you,
for you were gone.--But now, listen. As soon as I have finished my curds and cream this evening
I shall start for the place of Randyvoo where I shall be hidden punctually at half-past eight.
This is Saturday, so the parson will be writing his sermon, and the Dragon will be busy, so
it is a favorable opportunity for us to meet, and the alder-bushes will screen us from every
eye. (Schiller!) Wait awhile--thy rest comes presently (Göthe) in the arms of thy adorer, who
would sell all that is dear to him, if he could buy what is dear to thee with the proceeds.

  "Again to meet! again to meet!
   Till then I fain would sleep;
   My longings and my thoughts to steep
   In Lethe's waters dark and deep.
   My loved one I again shall see,
   There's rapture in the thought!
   In the hope tomorrow of thee,
   My darling, I fear nought.

"(The beginning is by myself, the middle part by Schiller, and the end by a certain person
called Anonymous who writes a great deal of poetry, but I have altered his lines to suit the
present case.)

"In an agony of longing to see you, EVER THINE."

"No!" cried little Mrs. Behrens when she had read the letter. "This is really too much of a
good thing! Ah, my dear sister, I'm sorry for you! Well, it's high time for other people to
interfere, and I think that being his aunt, I am the proper person to do so. And I will do
it," she exclaimed aloud, stamping her foot emphatically, "and I should like to see who'd dare
to prevent me!"

"I promise not to interfere with you, Mrs. Behrens," said Bräsig, coming from behind the bee-hives.

"Have you been listening, Bräsig?" asked Mrs. Behrens rather sharply. "'Listening!' I never
listen! I only keep my ears open, and then I hear what's going on; and I keep my eyes open,
and see what passes before me. For instance, I see that you are very cross." "Yes, but it's
enough to drive an angel wild." "Ah, Mrs. Behrens, the angels are wild enough already in all
conscience, but we don't need to speak of them just now, for I believe that the devil himself
is going about Pümpelhagen." "Goodness gracious me! Has Fred * * *?" "No," answered Bräsig,
"I don't know what it is, but certainly there's something up." "How?" "Mrs. Behrens, Hawermann
is in a bad humor, and that is enough to show you that something unpleasant is going on. When
I went to Pümpelhagen last week I found him busy with the hay and rape-harvest, and said: 'Good-morning,'
I said. 'Good-morning,' said he. 'Charles,' I began, and was going to have said something when
he interrupted me by asking: 'Have you seen Triddelfitz anywhere?' 'Yes,' I answered. 'Where?'
he asked. 'Sitting in the large ditch,' I said. 'Did you see young Mr. von Rambow?' he asked.
'He's sitting in the next ditch close behind Fred,' I replied. 'What are they doing?' he asked.
'Playing,' I said. 'You don't give me much comfort,' he said, 'playing, when there's so much
to be done!' 'Yes, Charles,' I said, 'and I played with them.' 'What were you playing at?'
he asked. 'We had a game at 'I spy,' Charles. You must understand that your gray-hound was
peeping over the edge of the ditch toward Gürlitz, and your young nobleman was watching the
gray-hound, so I hid myself in the marl-pit, and watched them both. Whenever one of them turned
the others ducked, so there we sat peeping and ducking till at last I found it a very tiresome
amusement, and, leaving my hiding-place, went to join Mr. von Rambow.' 'Good-day,' I said.
'Good-day,' he replied. 'Pardon me,' I said, 'but which of your farming-operations is it that
is occupying your attention just now?' 'I,' he stammered, 'w--wanted to see how the peas were
getting on!' 'H'm!' I said. 'Ah!' I said. 'I understand.' Then I bade him 'good-by,' and went
to have a look at the gray-hound. Don't be angry, Mrs. Behrens, but that's what I always call
your nephew." "Not at all, not at all!" cried the little lady, though her own name for him
was different. Then Bräsig continued: "'Good-day,' I said, 'may I ask what you are doing here?'
'Oh, nothing in particular,' he said, looking rather foolish, 'I'm only looking at the peas.'
'Now, Charles,' I said, 'if you can get the peas staked by setting those two lads to look at
them, why all that I can say is that you're a deuced lucky fellow.' 'The devil take it!' he
said, 'they're both up to some folly. Mr. von Rambow is quite changed this summer, he isn't
like the same person. He goes about in a dream, forgets all that I tell him, and so I can't
rely on him as I used to do. And as for that other stupid dolt, he's worse than ever.' Now,
Mrs. Behrens, pray don't be angry with Hawermann for calling your nephew a 'stupid dolt.'"
"Certainly not," replied Mrs. Behrens, "for that's just what he is." "Well, you see that all
happened a week ago, but this morning I went out early with my fishing-rod to try whether I
couldn't catch a few trout, when just as I was coming in this direction I caught sight of your
nephew, the gray-hound. He slipped cautiously into the garden, and after remaining there for
a few minutes, came out again. Meanwhile I perceived that the young nobleman was watching him
from amongst the thorn-bushes by the side of the ditch; but what was my astonishment when I
saw that my good old friend Charles Hawermann was following them on the hill-side. I brought
up the rear, and so we all went on in single file quite round the village, and I couldn't help
laughing when I thought that each of us only knew of the presence of the game he was stalking,
and was totally unaware that he himself was being stalked in his turn. We're all to be at it
again tomorrow I believe, for Hawermann, who has followed them twice already, is determined
to get to the bottom of the mystery; so if either you or the parson has a fancy to join us
in the hunt, you can follow me." "Thanks very much," said Mrs. Behrens, "but I've got my part
to play already. Bräsig, can you keep a secret?" "Like a safe when the padlock is on," he answered.
"No, no. Do be serious. Can you be silent?" "I beg your pardon," he said gravely, and clapped
his hand on his mouth in token of shame at his ill-timed jesting, though had any one else done
it, he would have given him a black eye for his pains. "Why well then, listen," said Mrs. Behrens,
who now proceeded to relate all that she knew of the affair. "Wheugh!" whistled Bräsig, "what
a fool that nephew of yours is." Mrs. Behrens then read him the letters she had found. "Hang
it," cried Bräsig, "where did the young rascal get that grand way of expressing himself. Stupid
as he is in other matters, he can write much better than one would expect." When she came to
the bit about the dragon Bräsig laughed heartily, and said:

"That's you, Mrs. Behrens, that's you!" "I know," she answered sharply, "but the ass in the
third letter is intended for you, so neither of us need laugh at the other. But now, Bräsig,
you see that it's quite necessary that I should get hold of the little wretch, and box his
ears well for him." "You're quite right, and it's easily managed. Listen. You and I must hide
at the bottom of the garden at eight o'clock this evening; at half past eight, Louisa must
take her place in the ditch, and you'll see that he'll come like a bear to wild honey; and
then we'll spring out upon him, and take him prisoner before he knows where he is." "That won't
do at all, Bräsig. If I were going to act in that sort of way I shouldn't require your help.
It would be a great misfortune if Louisa were ever to know anything about this, and I'd rather
that neither Hawermann nor even my pastor should hear of it." "H'm, h'm!" said Bräsig. "Then
* * * then * * * Stop! I have it now. Mrs. Behrens, you must make yourself as thin as possible,
put on Louisa's clothes, and go to the randyvoo in her stead. Then, as soon as he is seated
by your side, and is on the point of kissing you, you must seize him by the scruff of the neck,
and hold on till I come." "Nay, Bräsig, that would never do!" "Don't you think so, Mrs. Behrens?
You understand that if he doesn't see his sweet-heart in the ditch, you'll never manage to
inveigle him there; and if we don't nab him unexpectedly, we'll never succeed in catching him,
for he's a long-legged, thin-flanked gray-hound, and if it came to a race, we'd be nowhere
with our short legs and round bodies." It was quite true; but no! she go to a rendezvous? And
Bräsig was very stupid, how could she ever get into Louisa's gown? But Bräsig would not be
convinced, he maintained that it was the only way in which she could get the interview she
wanted with her nephew, and assured her that all she had to do was to put on Louisa's shawl
and Leghorn hat, and then go and sit on the edge of the ditch. "You must remember to sit down,"
he continued, "for if you remain standing he will see at once that you're a foot shorter, and
at least a foot broader than Louisa." At last--at last Mrs. Behrens allowed herself to be persuaded,
and when she went out at the back-door about eight o'clock that evening, wearing Louisa's shawl
and hat, the parson who was standing at his study-window thinking over his sermon, said to
himself wonderingly: "What on earth is Regina doing with Louisa's hat and shawl? And there's
Bräsig coming out of the arbor. He must want to speak to me about something--but it's a very
odd thing altogether!"

Mrs. Behrens went down the garden path with Bräsig feeling ready for anything that might befall.
She opened the garden-gate and went out alone, leaving Bräsig squatted under the hedge like
a great toad, but no sooner was she by herself than her courage oozed away, and she said: "Come
to the ditch with me, Bräsig, you're too far away there, and must be close at hand to help
me when I've caught him." "All right!" said Bräsig, and he accompanied her to the ditch.

Canal-like ditches such as this are no longer to be found in all the country-side, for the
thorough system of drainage to which the land has been subjected has done away with their use;
but every farmer will remember them in the old time. They were from fifteen to twenty feet
wide at the top, but tapered away till quite narrow at the bottom, and were fringed with thorns
and other bushwood. They were generally dry except in spring and autumn, when there was a foot
or a foot and half of water in them, or in summer for a day or two after a thunder-storm. That
was the case now. "Bräsig hide yourself behind that thorn so that you may come to the rescue
at once." "Very well," said Bräsig. "But, Mrs. Behrens," he continued after a pause, "you must
think of a signal to call me to your help." "Yes," she said. "Of course! But what shall it
be? Wait! when I say: 'The Philistines be upon thee,' spring upon him." "I understand, Mrs.
Behrens!"

"Goodness gracious me!" thought the clergyman's wife.

"I feel as if I were quite a Delilah. Going to a rendezvous at half past eight in the evening!
At my age too! Ah me, in my old age I'm going to do what I should have been ashamed of when
I was a girl." Then aloud. "Bräsig don't puff so loud any one could hear you a mile off." Resuming
her soliloquy: "And all for the sake of a boy, a mischievous wretch of a boy. Good gracious!
If my pastor knew what I was about!" Aloud. "What are you laughing at, Bräsig? I forbid you
to laugh, it's very silly of you." "I didn't laugh, Mrs. Behrens." "Yes, you did, I heard you
distinctly." "I only yawned, Mrs. Behrens, it's such frightfully slow work lying here." "You
oughtn't to yawn at such a time. I'm trembling all over. Oh, you little wretch, what misery
you have caused me! I can't tell any one what you've made me suffer, and must just bear it
in silence. It was God who sent Bräsig to my help." Suddenly Bräsig whispered in great excitement,
his voice sounding like the distant cry of a corn-crake: "Mrs. Behrens, draw yourself out till
you're as long as Lewerenz's child;[9] make yourself as thin as you possibly can, and put on
a pretty air of confusion, for I see him coming over the crest of the hill. His figure stands
out clearly against the sky." Little Mrs. Behrens felt as if her heart had stopped beating
and her anger waxed hotter against the boy who had brought her into such a false position.
She was so much ashamed of herself for being where she was, that she would most assuredly have
run away if Bräsig had not laughed again, but as soon as she heard that laugh, she determined
to stay and show him that he was engaged in a much more serious undertaking than he seemed
to imagine.

It was quite true that Bräsig had laughed this time, for he saw a second and then a third black
figure following the first down the hill. "Ha, ha, ha!" he chuckled in his hiding-place in
the thorn-bush, "there's Charles Hawermann too! I declare the whole overseeing force of Pümpelhagen
is coming down here to see how the peas are growing in the dusk of evening. It's as good as
a play!" Mrs. Behrens did not see the others, she only saw her sister's son who was coming
rapidly toward her. He hastened over the bridge, ran along the bank, sprang to her side, and
threw his arms round her neck, exclaiming: "Sweet angel!" "Oh you wicked little wretch!" cried
his aunt trying to seize him in the way Bräsig had desired her, but instead of that she only
caught hold of the collar of his coat. Then she called out as loudly as she could: "The Philistines
be upon thee!" and immediately Bräsig the Philistine started to his feet. Confound it! His
foot had gone to sleep! But never mind! He hopped down the bank as quickly as he could, taking
into consideration that one leg felt as if it had a hundred-and-eighty pound weight attached
to the end of it, but just as he was close upon his prey he tripped over a low thorn-bush and
tumbled right into the foot and a half of water. And there he sat as immovably as if he had
gone back to the hydropathic establishment, and were in the enjoyment of a sitz-bath! Fred
stood as if he had been turned to stone, and felt as though he were suffering from a douche-bath,
for his dear aunt was clutching him tightly and scolding him to her heart's content: "The dragon
has caught you now my boy! Yes, the dragon has caught you!" "And here comes the ass," shouted
Bräsig picking himself out of the water and running toward him. But Fred had now recovered
from his astonishment. He shook himself free from his aunt, and darting up the bank would have
escaped had he not at the same moment encountered a new enemy--Frank. In another second Hawermann
had joined them, and Mrs. Behrens had scarcely recovered from the shock of seeing him, when
her pastor came up, and said: "What's the matter, Regina? What does all this mean?" The poor
little lady's consternation was indescribable, but Bräsig, from whose clothes the water was
running in streams, was too angry to hold his tongue, and exclaimed: "You confounded rascal!
You gray-hound!" giving Fred a hearty dig in the ribs as he spoke. "It's all your fault that
I shall have another attack of gout. But now, I'll tell you what, every one shall know what
a d----d Jesuit you are. Hawermann, he * * *" "For God's sake," cried Mrs. Behrens, "don't
attend to a single word that Bräsig says. Hawermann, Mr. von Rambow, the whole thing is ended
and done with. It's all over now, and what has still to be done or said can quite well be managed
by my pastor alone; it's a family matter and concerns no one but ourselves. Isn't that the
case, my dear Fred? It's merely a family matter I assure you, and no one has anything to do
with it but we two. But now, come away, my boy, we'll tell my pastor all about it. Good-night,
Mr. von Rambow. Good-night, Hawermann, Fred will soon follow you. Come away, Bräsig, you must
go to bed at once."

And so she managed to disperse the assembly. The two who were left in ignorance of what had
happened, went home separately, shaking their heads over the affair. Hawermann was indignant
with his two young people, and put out because he was to have no explanation of their conduct.
Frank was mistrustful of everyone; he had recognized Louisa's hat and shawl in spite of the
darkness, and thought that the mystery must have something to do with her, though how he was
unable to conjecture.

Fred was much cast down in spirit. The clergyman and his wife went on in front of him, and
the latter told her husband the whole story from beginning to end, scolding her hopeful nephew
roundly the whole time. The procession moved on toward the parsonage, and as the evil-doer
guessed that a bad half-hour awaited him there, he had serious thoughts of making his escape
while it was possible, but Bräsig came as close up to him as if he had known what he was thinking
of, and that only made him rage and chafe the more inwardly. When Bräsig asked Mrs. Behrens
who it was that had come up in the nick of time, and she had answered that it was Frank, Triddelfitz
stood still and shaking his fist in the direction of Pümpelhagen, said fiercely "I am betrayed,
and she will be sold, sold to that man because of his rank and position!" "Boy!" cried Mrs.
Behrens, "will you hold your tongue!" "Hush, Regina," said her husband, who had now a pretty
good idea of what had taken place, "now please go in and see that Bräsig's room is prepared,
and get him sent to bed as quickly as you can. I will remain here and speak to Fred."

This was done. The parson appealed to Fred's common sense, but his sense of injury far exceeded
that other, and his spirit seethed and boiled like wine in the process of fermentation. He
put aside all the clergyman's gentle arguments, and declared passionately that his own aunt
had determined to destroy the whole happiness of his life, and that she cared more for the
rich aristocrat than for her sister's son.

Within the house matters were going on in the same unsatisfactory manner; uncle Bräsig refused
to go to bed in spite of all Mrs. Behren's entreaties. "I can't," he said, "that is to say,
I can, but I musn't do it; for I must go to Rexow. I had a letter from Mrs. Nüssler saying
that she wanted my help." The same yeast which had caused Fred to seethe and boil over was
working in him, but more quietly, because it had been a part of his being for a longer time.
At last, however, he was persuaded to go to bed as a favor to Mrs. Behrens, and from fear of
bringing on an attack of gout by remaining in his wet things, but his thoughts were as full
of anxious affection for Mrs. Nüssler as Fred's were of love for Louisa when on leaving the
parsonage he exclaimed passionately: "Give her up, does he say! Give her up! The devil take
that young sprig of the nobility!"

Next day--it was Sunday morning--when Bräsig awoke, he gave himself a comfortable stretch in
the soft bed. "A luxury," he said to himself, "that I've never before enjoyed, but I suppose
one would soon get accustomed to it." Just as he was about to get up the house-maid came in,
and taking possession of his clothes, placed a black coat, waistcoat and pair of trousers over
the back of a chair in their stead.

"Ho, ho!" he said with a laugh as he examined the black suit, "it's Sunday, and this is a parsonage;
but surely they never think that I'm going to preach today!" He lifted one article of clothing
after the other curiously, and then said: "Ah! I see now, it's because mine were wet through
in the ditch last night, so they've given me a suit belonging to his Reverence. All right then!--here
goes." But it did not go so easily after all! And as for comfort, that was totally out of the
question. The trousers were a very good length, but were frightfully tight. The lower buttons
of the waistcoat could neither be coaxed nor forced into the button-holes, and when he put
on the coat, there was an ominous cracking somewhere between the shoulders. As for his arms,
they stood out from his body as if he were prepared to press the whole world to his faithful
heart on this particular Sunday.

After he was dressed he went down stairs, and joined Mrs. Behrens in the parlor. As to his
legs, he looked and walked very much as he had done ever since he had received his pension;
but as to the upper part of his body! Mrs. Behrens burst out laughing when she saw him, and
immediately took refuge behind the breakfast table, for he advanced with his arms outstretched
as if he wished to make her the first recipient of his world-embrace. "Keep away from me, Bräsig!"
she laughed. "If I had ever imagined that my pastor's good clothes would have looked so ridiculous
on you I'd have let you remain in bed till dinner-time, for your own things won't be washed
and dried before that." "Oh, ho!" laughed Bräsig, "that was the reason you sent me these things,
was it? I thought perhaps you wanted to dress me up for another randyvoo today." "Now, just
listen to me, Bräsig!" said little Mrs. Behrens, blushing furiously. "I forbid you to make
such jokes. And when you're going about in the neighborhood--you have nothing to do now except
to carry gossip from one house to another--if you ever tell any one about that wretched rendezvous
of last night--I'll never speak to you again." "Mrs. Behrens, you may trust me not to do that,"
here he went nearer the clergyman's wife with both arms outstretched, and she once more retreated
behind the table. "Indeed, you've nothing to fear. I'm not a Jesuit." "No, Bräsig, you're an
old heathen, but you arn't a Jesuit. But if you say anything about it * * * Oh me! Hawermann
must be told, my pastor says so. But if he asks about it, don't mention my name, please. Oh,
dear! If the Pomuchelskopps were ever to hear of it, I should be the most miserable of women.
God knows, Bräsig, that what I did, I did for the best, and for the sake of that innocent child.
I've sacrificed myself for her." "That's quite true," answered Bräsig with conviction, "and
so don't let fretting over it give you any gray hairs. Look here. If Charles Hawermann asks
me how you came to be there, I'll say--I'll say--h'm!--I'll say that you had arranged a randyvoo
with me." "You! Fie, for shame!" "Nay, Mrs. Behrens, I don't see that. Am I not as good as
the young gray-hound any day? And don't our ages suit better?" And as he spoke he looked as
innocently surprised at her displeasure as if he had proposed the best possible way out of
the difficulty. Mrs. Behrens looked at him dubiously, and then said, folding her hands on her
lap: "Bräsig, I'll trust to you to say nothing you ought not to say. But Bräsig--dear Bräsig,
do nothing absurd. And * * * and * * * come and sit down, and drink a cup of coffee." She took
hold of his stiff arm and drew him to the table, much as a miller draws the sails of a windmill
when he wants to set it going.

"Thank you," said Bräsig. He managed to get hold of the handle of the cup after a struggle,
and lifted it as if he were a juggler and the cup were at least a hundred pounds in weight,
and as if he wanted to make sure that all the audience saw it properly. Then he tried to sit
down, but the moment he bent his knees a horrible cracking noise was heard, and he drew himself
up again hastily--whether it was the chair or the trousers that cracked he did not know. He
therefore drank his coffee standing, and said: it didn't matter, for he hadn't time to sit
down, he must go to Mrs. Nüssler at once because of her letter. Mrs. Behrens implored him to
wait until his clothes were dry, but in vain; Mrs. Nüssler's slightest wish was regarded by
him as a command, and was inscribed as such in the order-book of his conscience. So he set
out for Rexow along the Pümpelhagen road, the long tails of his clerical garment floating behind
him. His progress was as slow and difficult as that of a young rook learning to fly.

As he passed Pümpelhagen, Hawermann saw him, and called him to stop, adding: "Bless me, Zachariah,
why are you dressed so oddly?" "An accident, nothing but an accident. You remember that I fell
into the muddy water in the ditch last night. But I hav'n't time to stop now, I must go to
your sister." "My sister's business can wait better than mine, Bräsig. I've noticed lately
that a great many things are going on behind my back that I'm not wanted to know. It wouldn't
have mattered so much, but that I saw last night that both the parson and his wife are better
informed than I am, and that these good people want to hide the true state of the case from
me out of the kindness of their hearts." "You're right, Charles. It is out of kindness." "Certainly,
Bräsig, and I am not mistrustful of them, but I can't help thinking that it's something that
concerns me very nearly, and that I ought to know. What were you doing yesterday evening?"
"I, Charles? I was just having a randyvoo with Mrs. Behrens in the ditch." "And the parson?"
"We knew nothing of what brought him, Charles. He took us by surprise when he came." "What
had Mr. von Rambow to do with it?" "He caught your gray-hound by the scruff of the neck, and
perhaps threw me into the water by accident." "What had Fred Triddelfitz to do with it?" asked
Hawermann impressively, "and what had Louisa's hat and shawl got to do with it?" "Nothing more
than that they didn't fit Mrs. Behrens at all, for she's far too stout to wear them." "Zachariah,"
said Hawermann, stretching his hand toward his friend over the low hedge, "you are trying to
put me off. Won't you tell me what is the matter, we are such old friends--or is it that you
must not tell me?" "The devil take the randyvoo and Mrs. Behrens' anxiety," cried Bräsig, seizing
Hawermann's hand and shaking it vehemently over the hedge and amongst the tall nettles that
grew there, till the smart of the stings made them both draw back. "I'll tell you, Charles.
The parson's going to tell you himself, so why shouldn't I? Fred Triddelfitz fell in love with
you sometime ago, most likely because of the good fatherly advice you have often given him,
and now it seems his love for you has passed on to your daughter. Love always passes on, for
example with me from your sister to Mina." "Do be serious, Bräsig!" "Am I not always in earnest,
Charles, when I speak of your sister and Mina?" "I am sure you are," cried Hawermann, seizing
his friend's hand again in spite of the nettles, "but, tell me, what had Frank to do with it?"
"I think that he must have fallen in love with you too, and that his love has also passed on
from you to your daughter." "That would be a great pity," cried Hawermann, "a very great pity.
God only knows how it's to be stopped." "I'm not so sure, Charles, that you're right in thinking
it a misfortune, for he has two estates * * *" "Don't talk about that, Bräsig, but come in
and tell me all that you know."

As soon as Bräsig had told as much as he knew of the affair, he set off down the footpath that
led to Rexow. Hawermann stood and watched him till he was out of sight, and then said to himself:
"He's a good man, his heart's in the right place, and if I find that it is so, I will * * *
but * * * but * * *!" He was not thinking of Bräsig when he said this, but of Frank.

[When uncle Bräsig had reached Rexow, he was consulted on a matter of great consequence. Two
young nephews of Joseph Nüssler, Godfrey Baldrian and Rudolph Kurz, had asked permission to
spend the weeks before their examinations--both were students of theology--at Rexow. Should
they be invited to come? Godfrey was all right, a serious-minded youth, but Rudolph, although
a good sort of a fellow, was frivolous, he had even fought a duel in Rostock for the sake of
a merchant's pretty daughter. Was there any danger of Lina and Mina falling in love? "Bräsig,"
Joseph said, "you see it might quite well happen, and what are we as their parents to do?"
"Let them alone, Joseph!" he replied. "Why does God send young folks into the world, if he
does not intend them to love each other? But the little round-heads!" His advice was finally
taken, and the two young men were soon settled at the Nüssler home. At first everything went
well, but after a while difficulties arose, and uncle Bräsig was again called upon for advice.]

Bräsig went to Rexow that morning to see Mrs. Nüssler as he had intended. The crown-prince
was in the doorway when he arrived, and came forward to meet him with such a hearty wag of
the tail that any one would have thought him a most christian-minded dog, and would have imagined
that he had quite forgiven Bräsig the fright he had given him the last time he was at Rexow.
There was a look of such quiet satisfaction in his yellow brown eyes that one would have thought
that everything was going on well in the house; that Mrs. Nüssler was busy in the kitchen,
and that Joseph was comfortably seated in his own particular arm-chair. But it was not so.
When Bräsig went into the parlor he certainly found Joseph in his old place, but Mrs. Nüssler
was standing in front of him, and was giving him a lecture about caring for nothing, and never
interfering when things were going wrong, although it was his duty to do so. As soon as she
saw Bräsig, she went up to him and said angrily: "And you keep out of the way, Bräsig. Every
one may be standing on their heads here for anything you care, and it's all your fault that
we ever took those two lads into the house." "Gently," said Bräsig. "Gently! Don't excite yourself,
Mrs. Nüssler! Well what's all this about the divinity students?" "A very great deal! But I
should never have said a word about it, for they're Joseph's relations, and 'it's an ill bird
that soils its own nest!' There has been no peace or comfort in the house since the two young
men have been here, and if it goes on like this much longer, I'm afraid that I shall have a
quarrel with Joseph himself." "Mother," said young Joseph, "what can I do?" "Hold your tongue,
young Joseph," cried Bräsig, "it's all your fault. Why didn't you teach them better manners?"
"Come, come, Bräsig," said Mrs. Nüssler, "just leave Joseph to me if you please, and remember
it's your fault this time. You promised to keep an eye on the young men, and see that they
didn't get into mischief, and instead of that, you let one of them do what he likes and never
trouble your head to see what he's after, while you encourage the other to spend all his time
in fishing and such like nonsense, instead of minding his books, so that he's always out in
the fields, and comes home in the evening with a lot of perch about the length of my finger,
and when I think the day's work is over, I'm expected to go back to the kitchen and cook that
trash!" "What!" cried Bräsig. "Does he only bring you in such tiny little fish? That's queer
now, for I've shown him all the best pools for catching large perch. Then you must * * *! Just
wait!" "I'll tell you," interrupted Mrs. Nüssler, "you must forbid him to fish, for he didn't
come here to do that. His father sent him here to learn something, and he's coming to see him
this very afternoon." "Well, Mrs. Nüssler," said Bräsig, "I can't help admiring the persistency
with which he has followed my advice about fishing. Hasn't he done anything else though?" "A
great deal, both of them have done a great deal. I've never spoken about it because they're
Joseph's relations, and at first everything went on pretty well. It was an idle, merry life
at first; my two little girls were very much brightened up by the change and all went on smoothly.
Mina here, and Rudolph there, Lina here, and Godfrey there. They talked sense with Godfrey
and nonsense with Rudolph. The two lads worked away properly at their books in the morning;
Godfrey indeed sometimes read so long that it gave him a headache, and Rudolph did quite a
fair amount of study. But that did not last long. They soon began to quarrel and wrangle about
theological questions, and Godfrey, who knows more than the other, said that Rudolph did not
speak from a Christian standpoint." "Did he say 'standpoint'?" put in Bräsig. "Yes, that was
his very word," answered Mrs. Nüssler. "Oho!" said Bräsig. "I think I hear him. While other
people end with standpoint, Methodists always begin with it. And then I suppose he wanted to
convert him?" "Yes," said Mrs. Nüssler. "That's just what he wanted to do. But you see the
other lad is much cleverer than Godfrey, and made so many jokes about all that he said, that
at last Godfrey quite lost his temper, and so the discomfort in the house grew worse and worse.
I don't know how it was, but my two girls mixed themselves up in the quarrel. Lina who is the
gravest and most sensible took Godfrey's side of the argument, and Mina laughed and giggled
over Rudolph's jokes." "Yes," interrupted Joseph, "it's all according to circumstances!" "You
ought to be ashamed of yourself, young Joseph," said Bräsig, "for allowing such a Hophnei to
remain in the house." "Nay, Bräsig," said Mrs. Nüssler, "let Joseph alone, he did his best
to make matters comfortable again. When Godfrey talked about the devil till we all felt quite
eerie, Joseph believed in his existence; and when Rudolph laughed at, and ridiculed all belief
in him, Joseph laughed as heartily as anyone. When the dispute ran highest, my little Mina
took all Godfrey's books to Rudolph's room, and all Rudolph's to Godfrey's, and when the young
men looked rather cross, she said quickly, that they'd better both study the subject thoroughly,
and then perhaps they might agree better about it than at present." "Mina's a clever little
woman," cried Bräsig. "Well," continued Mrs. Nüssler," they didn't like it at all at first;
but whatever Godfrey's faults may be, he's a good-natured lad, so he began to study Rudolph's
books. And the other at last set to work at Godfrey's, for you see it was wintry weather and
it gave him something to do. You should have seen them a short time afterward! They had changed
as much as their books. Godfrey made poor jokes about the devil, and Rudolph sighed and groaned,
and spoke of the devil as if he knew him intimately, and as if he were accustomed to sit down
to dinner with us every day and to eat his potatoes like any other honest man. Then my little
girls turned right round. Mina took Godfrey's part; and Lina took Rudolph's, for Rudolph said
that Godfrey didn't speak from a Christian standpoint." "Ugh!" said Bräsig, "he oughtn't to
have said that. But wait a bit! Is he really that sort of fellow, and can't he ever catch a
good-sized perch?" "And then," cried Mrs. Nüssler indignantly, "they were all at sixes and
sevens again, because of that horrible perch fishing, for as soon as spring returned and the
perch began to bite, Rudolph cared no more about the Christian standpoint. He took his fishing-rod,
and went out after you all day long. The other went back to his old opinion about the existence
of the devil, you see he was preparing for his examination and couldn't get through it properly
without that. My two girls didn't know which of their cousins to trust to." "They're a couple
of rascals," cried Bräsig, "but it's all the Methodist's fault, what business had he to bother
the other about the devil and the Christian standpoint?" "No, no, Bräsig, I've nothing to say
against him for that. He has learnt something, has passed his examination, and may be ordained
any day. But Rudolph does nothing at all, he only makes mischief in the house." "Why, what
has he been after now? Has he been fishing for whitings?" asked Bräsig raising his eyebrows.
"Whitings!" said Mrs. Nüssler scornfully. "He has been fishing for a sermon. You must know
that Mrs. Baldrian wanted to hear her son preach, so she asked the clergyman at Rahnstädt to
let him preach in his church, and he said he might do so. She then went and told her sister
what she had done, and Mrs. Kurz was very much put out that her son wasn't as far on as his
cousin, so she went to the old parson too and asked him to allow Rudolph to preach for him
some day soon. Well the clergyman was so far left to himself as to arrange that Rudolph should
preach on the same day as Godfrey. The two young men had a great argument as to which was to
have the forenoon and which the afternoon, but at last it was settled that Rudolph should preach
in the morning. Well, Godfrey set to work as hard as he could, and spent the whole day from
morning till evening in the arbor. As he has a bad memory he learnt his sermon by repeating
it aloud. Rudolph did nothing but amuse himself as usual, till the two last days, when he seated
himself on the grass bank behind the arbor, and seemed to be thinking over his sermon. On the
Sunday morning, Joseph drove the two young clergymen and us to Rahnstädt. We went into the
parsonage pew, and I can assure you I was in a great fright about Rudolph, but the rogue stood
there as calmly as if he were quite sure of himself, and when the time came for him to preach,
he went up into the pulpit and began his sermon. He got on so well that every one listened
attentively, and I was so pleased with the boy that I turned to whisper to Godfrey, who sat
next to me, how relieved and overjoyed I was, when I saw that he was moving about restlessly
in his seat, and looking as if he would like to jump up and pull Rudolph out of the pulpit:
'Aunt,' he said, 'that is my sermon.' And so it was, Bräsig. The little wretch had got it by
heart from hearing his cousin learning it aloud in the arbor." "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Bräsig.
"What a joke! What a capital joke!" "Do you call it a joke?" said Mrs. Nüssler angrily. "Do
you call playing a trick like that in God's house a joke?" "Ha, ha, ha!" roared Bräsig. "I
know that it's wicked to laugh, and I know that only the devil could have prompted the lad
to play such a trick, but I can't help it, I must laugh at it all the same." "Oh, of course,"
said Mrs. Nüssler crossly, "of course you do nothing but laugh while we are like to break our
hearts with grief and anger." "Never mind me," said Bräsig soothingly, "tell me, what did the
Methodist do? Ha, ha, ha! I'd have given a good deal for a sight of his face!" "You would,
would you? Of course he couldn't preach the same sermon in the afternoon, so the parson had
to give his people one of his old sermons over again; but he was very angry, and said that
if he chose to make the circumstance public, Rudolph might go and hang himself on the first
willow he came across." "But the Methodist?" "The poor fellow was miserable, but he didn't
say a word. However his mother said enough for two, and she spoke so harshly to her sister
Mrs. Kurz about what had happened, that they're no longer on speaking terms. There was a frightful
quarrel. I was both ashamed and angry at the way they went on, for both Baldrian and Kurz joined
in the squabble, and even Joseph began to mix himself up in it, but fortunately our carriage
drove up, and I got him away as quickly as I could." "What did the duelist say?" "Oh, the wretch
was wise enough to run away here as soon as he had concluded his stolen sermon." "And you gave
him a regular good scolding, I suppose," said Bräsig. "Not I indeed," said Mrs. Nüssler decidedly.
"I wasn't going to put my finger in that pie. His father is coming today and he is 'the nearest'
to him, as Mrs. Behrens would say; and I've told Joseph that he's not to mix himself up in
the affair or to talk about it at all. He's quite changed latterly. He has got into the habit
of putting up his back and meddling with things with which he has nothing to do. Now just keep
quiet, Joseph." "Yes, Joseph, hold your tongue," said Bräsig. "And my two girls," continued
Mrs. Nüssler, "are quite different from what they used to be. Since that unlucky sermon their
eyes have always been red with crying, and they've gone about the house as quietly as mice.
They hardly ever say a word to each other now, though they used never to be separate, and when
one of them was happy or unhappy the other had to know all about it immediately. My household
is all at odds." "Mother," said young Joseph rising from his chair with a look of determination,
"that's just what I say, and I will speak; you'll see that the boys have put it into their
heads." "What have they put into their heads, Joseph?" asked Mrs. Nüssler crossly. "Love affairs,"
said Joseph, sinking back into his corner. "My dear mother always used to say that when a divinity
student and a governess were in the same house * * * And you'll see the truth of it with Godfrey
and Mina." "Law, Joseph! How you do talk to be sure! May God preserve you in your right mind!
That's all nonsense, but if it were the case, the divinity student should leave the house at
once and Rudolph too. Come away, Bräsig, I've got something to say to you."

As soon as they had left the house, Mrs. Nüssler signed to Bräsig to follow her into the garden,
and when they were seated in the arbor, she said: "I can't stand Joseph's eternal chatter any
longer, Bräsig. It was Rudolph who taught him to speak so much by continually encouraging him
to talk last winter, and he has got into the habit now and won't give it up. But, tell me honestly--remember
you promised to watch--have you seen anything of the kind going on?" "Bless me! No. Not the
faintest approach to anything of the sort." "I can't think it either," said Mrs. Nüssler thoughtfully.
"At first Lina and Godfrey, and Mina and Rudolph used to go about together. Afterward Mina
took to Godfrey, and Lina to Rudolph, but ever since the examination Lina and Godfrey have
been on their old terms with each other once more, while Mina and Rudolph have never made friends
again; indeed I may say that she has never so much as looked at him since the day he preached
in Rahnstädt." "Ah, Mrs. Nüssler," said Bräsig, "love shows itself in most unexpected ways.
Sometimes the giving of a bunch of flowers is a sign of it, or even a mere 'good-morning' accompanied
by a shake of the hand. Sometimes it is shown by two people stooping at the same moment to
pick up a ball of cotton that one of them has dropped, when all that the looker-on sees is
that they knocked their heads together in trying which could pick it up first. But gradually
the signs become more apparent. The girl blushes now and then, and the man watches whatever
she does; or the girl takes the man into the larder, and gives him sausages, or cold tongue,
or pig's cheek, and the man begins to wear a blue or a red necktie; but the surest sign of
all is when they go out on a summer-evening for a walk in the moonlight, and you hear them
sigh without any cause. Now, has anything of that kind been going on with the little round-heads?"
"No, I can't say that I've noticed them doing that, Bräsig. They used to go to the cold meat-larder
sometimes it's true, but I soon put an end to that; I wasn't going to stand that sort of thing;
and as for blushing, I didn't notice them doing that either, though of course I've seen that
their eyes are often red with crying." "Well," said Bräsig, "there must have been a reason
for that--I'll tell you what, Mrs. Nüssler, you just leave the whole management of the affair
in my hands, for I know how to arrange such matters. I soon put an end to that sort of nonsense
in Fred Triddelfitz. I'm an old hunter, and I'll ferret the matter out for you, but you must
tell me where they generally meet." "Here, Bräsig, here in this arbor. My girls sit here in
the afternoon with their work, and then the other two join them. I never thought any harm of
it." "All right!" said Bräsig, going out of the arbor, and looking about him. He examined a
large cherry-tree carefully which was growing close by, and seeing that it was thickly covered
with leaves he looked quite satisfied. "That'll do," he said, "what can be done, shall be done."
"Goodness, gracious me!" said Mrs. Nüssler, "I wonder what will happen this afternoon! It's
very disagreeable. Kurz is coming at coffee-time, and he is desperately angry with his son
for playing such a trick on his cousin. You'll see that there will be a terrible scene." "That's
always the way with these little people," said Bräsig, "when the head and the lower part of
the constitution are too near each other, the nature is always fiery." "Ah!" sighed Mrs. Nüssler
as she entered the parlor, "it'll be a miserable afternoon."

She little knew that misery had long ago taken up its abode in her house.

Whilst these arrangements were being made down-stairs the twins were busy sewing in their garret-room.
Lina was seated at one window, and Mina at the other; they never looked up from their work,
and never spoke to each other as in the old days at Mrs. Behrens' sewing-class. They worked
away as busily as if the world had been torn in two, and they had to sew up the rent with their
needles and thread, while their serious faces and deep sighs showed that they were fully aware
of the gravity of their employment. It was strange that their mother had not told Bräsig how
sadly pale they had grown. The change must have been very gradual for her not to have noticed
it. But so it was. The two apple-cheeked maidens looked as if they had been growing on the
north-side of the tree of life, where no sunbeams could ever come to brighten their existence,
and tinge their cheeks with healthful color. They could no longer be likened to two apples
growing on one stalk. At last Lina's work fell on her lap, she could go on sewing no more,
her eyes were so full of tears, and then large drops began to roll slowly down her pale cheeks;
Mina took out her handkerchief and wiped her eyes, for her tears were falling upon her work,
and so the two little sisters sat weeping each in her own window, as if all her happiness were
gone past recall.

Suddenly Mina jumped up, and ran out of the room as if she must go out into the fresh air,
but she stopped short on the landing, for she remembered that her mother might see her and
ask her what was the matter, so she remained outside the door crying silently. And then Lina
started up to go and comfort Mina; but she suddenly remembered that she did not know what to
say to her, so she remained standing within the room beside the door, crying also. It often
happens that a thin wall of separation rises between two loving hearts, and while each would
give anything to get back to the other, neither will be the first to turn the handle--for in
every such partition wall there is a door with a handle on each side of it--and so they remain
apart in spite of their longing to be reconciled.

But fortunately the twins were not so selfishly proud as to allow this state of matters to
go on for ever. Mina opened the door, and said: "Why are you crying, Lina?" and Lina immediately
stretched out both hands to her sister, and said: "Oh, Mina, why are you crying?" Then they
fell upon each other's necks and cried again, and the color returned to their cheeks as if
a sunbeam had kissed them, and they clung to each other as if they were once more growing on
the same stalk. "Mina, I will let you have him. You must be happy," said Lina. "No, Lina,"
said Mina, "he likes you most, and you are much better than I am." "No, Mina. I've quite made
up my mind. Uncle Kurz is coming this afternoon, and I'll ask father and mother to let me go
home with him, for I couldn't remain here and see it all just yet." "Do so, Lina, for then
you'll be with his parents, and when you both come back, I'll ask Godfrey to get his father
to look out for a situation for me as governess in some town far, far from home, for I couldn't
stay here either." "Mina!" cried Lina, holding her sister from her at arm's length, and looking
at her in amazement, "with his parents? With whose parents?" "Why--Rudolph's." "You meant Rudolph?"
"Yes, why who did you mean?" "I? Oh, I meant Godfrey." "No, did you really?" exclaimed Mina,
throwing her arms round Lina's neck, "but is it possible? How is it possible? We don't mean
the same after all then!" "Ah!" said Lina who was the most sensible of the two, "what a great
deal of unnecessary pain we have given each other!" "Oh, how happy I am," cried Mina, who was
the least sensible, as she danced about the room. "All will be well now." "Yes, Mina," said
Lina the sensible, joining in the dance. "Everything will go on happily now." Then silly little
Mina threw herself into her sister's arms again--she was so happy.

If people would only turn the handle of the door that divides them from their friends while
there is yet time, all would go well with them, even though it might not bring such intense
joy as it did to the two girls in the little garret-room.

The sisters cried one moment and laughed the next; then they danced round the room, and after
that they sat on each other's knees, and told how it all happened, and sorrowed over their
own stupidity, which had prevented them seeing the true state of the case. They wondered how
it was that they had not had an explanation sooner, and then they confessed to each other exactly
how matters stood between them and their cousins, and ended by being more than half angry with
the two young men, whom they accused of being the real cause of the misunderstanding. Lina
said that she had been in great doubt before, but that ever since last Sunday she had been
quite certain that Mina cared for Godfrey because of her constant tears; and Mina said that
she had been miserable because of the wicked trick Rudolph had played in church about the sermon,
and that she had been puzzled to account for Lina's tears. Lina then explained that she had
been so very sorry for poor Godfrey's disappointment. All was made up now between the sisters,
and when the dinner-bell rang they ran down-stairs together arm in arm, looking as sweet and
fresh as two roses. Bräsig, who had seated himself with his back to the light that he might
see them better, was very much astonished when he caught sight of their happy faces. "What,"
he said to himself, "these two girls changed and shy, and suffering from some secret grief?
In love? Not a bit of it! They're as merry as crickets."

The sound of the dinner-bell brought Godfrey Baldrian, or the Methodist, as Bräsig called him.
Lina blushed and turned away from him, not in anger, but because she remembered the confession
she had just made in the garret. And Bräsig said to himself: "That's very odd now! Lina seems
to have taken the infection, but how can she care for a scare-crow of a Methodist?" Bräsig
expressed himself too strongly, but still it must be acknowledged that Godfrey was no beauty.
Nature had not given him many personal advantages, and he did not use those that he had in
the wisest possible way. For example his hair. He had a thick head of yellow hair that would
have provoked no criticism, and indeed would have looked quite nice if it had only been cut
properly, but unfortunately he had taken the pictures of the beloved disciple John as his model,
and had parted his hair down the middle, and brushed it into ringlets at the ends, though the
upper part of his head showed that the real nature of his hair was to be straight. I have nothing
to say against little boys of ten or even twelve going about with curls, and the mothers of
these same little boys would have still less objection to it than I should, for they delight
in stroking the curls lovingly out of their children's faces, and in combing them out smooth
when visitors come to the house. Some mothers have even gone so far, when their children's
hair did not curl naturally, as to screw it up in paper or use tongs, but that was a mistake
on their part. If it were the fashion, I should have nothing to say against even old people
wearing curls, for it looks very nice in some ancient pictures, but there are two remarks I
should like to make while on this subject, and these are: a man with thin legs ought never
to wear tight trousers, and he whose hair does not curl naturally should cut it short. Our
poor Godfrey's hair, which hung down his back, was burnt to a sort of dun color by the sun,
and as he liked it to look smooth and tidy, he put a good deal of pomade on it, which greased
his coat-collar considerably.

Beneath this wealth of hair was a small pale face with an expression of suffering on it, which
always made Bräsig ask sympathizingly what shoemaker he employed, and whether he was troubled
with corns. The rest of his figure was in keeping with his face. He was tall, narrow-chested,
and angular, and that part of the human body which shows whether a man enjoys the good things
of life, was altogether wanting in him. Indeed he was so hollowed out where the useful and
necessary digesting apparatus is wont to show its existence by a gentle roundness of form,
that he might be said to be shaped like the inside of Mrs. Nüssler's baking-trough. For this
reason Bräsig regarded him as a sort of wonder in natural history, for he ate as much as a
ploughman without producing any visible effect. Let no one imagine that the Methodist did not
do his full duty in the way of eating and drinking; I have known divinity students, and know
some now, with whom I should have no chance in that respect. But the fact is that young men
whose minds are employed in theological studies are generally somewhat thin, as will be seen
in any of the numerous divinity students to be met with in Mecklenburg; when they have been
settled in a good living for a few years, they begin to fill out like ordinary mortals. Bräsig
remembered this, and did not despair of seeing Godfrey a portly parson one of these days, though
how it was to come about was rather a puzzle to him. Such was Godfrey Baldrian in appearance;
but his portrait would not be complete if I did not add that he had the faintest possible tinge
of Phariseeism in his expression. It was only a tinge, but with Phariseeism as with rennet,
a very small quantity is enough to curdle a large pan of milk.

They sat down to dinner, and Joseph asked: "Where is Rudolph?" "Goodness gracious me, Joseph,
what are you talking about!" said Mrs. Nüssler crossly. "I'm sure you might know by this time
that Rudolph is always late. I dare say he's out fishing; but whatever he's about I can assure
him that if he doesn't come in time for dinner, he may just go without." The meal was a very
silent one, for Bräsig was too much occupied watching what was going on to be able to talk,
and Mrs. Nüssler had enough to do wondering over the cause of the remarkable change in her
daughters' appearance. The twins sat side by side, and looked as happy as if they had just
awakened from a disagreeable dream, and were rejoicing that it was only a dream, and that the
warm sunbeams were once more shining upon them.

When dinner was over, Mina whose turn it was to help her mother to clear away the dishes, tidy
the room, and prepare the coffee, asked her sister: "Where are you going, Lina?" "I'll get
my sewing and go to the arbor," answered Lina. "Very well," said Mina, "I'll join you there
as soon as I'm ready." "And I'll go too," said Godfrey, "for I've got a book I want to finish."
"That's right," said Bräsig; "it'll be a deuced good entertainment for Lina." Godfrey felt
inclined to take the old man to task for using such a word as "deuced," but on second thoughts
refrained from doing so, for he knew that it was hopeless to try to bring Bräsig round to his
opinion, so he followed the girls from the room. "Bless me!" cried Mrs. Nüssler.

"What can have happened to my girls? They were as quiet as mice and never said a word to each
other till this afternoon, and now they are once more one heart and one soul." "Hush, Mrs.
Nüssler," said Bräsig, "I'll find out all about it for you today. Joseph, come with me; but
mind you're not to talk." Joseph followed him to the garden, and when they got there Bräsig
took his arm: "Now hold your tongue, Joseph," he said, "don't look round, you must appear to
be taking a walk after dinner." Joseph did as he was told with much success. When they reached
the cherry-tree beside the arbor, Bräsig stood still and said: "Now then, Joseph, give me a
back--but put your head close to the stem of the tree." Joseph was about to speak, but Bräsig
pressed down his head, saying: "Hold your tongue, Joseph--put your head nearer the tree." He
then stepped on his back, and when standing there firmly, said: "Now straighten yourself--It
does exactly!" Then seizing the lower branch with both hands, Bräsig pulled himself up into
the tree. Joseph had never spoken all this time but now he ventured to remark: "But, Bräsig,
they're not nearly ripe yet." "What a duffer you are, Joseph," said Bräsig, thrusting his red
face through the green leaves which surrounded him. "Do you really think that I expect to eat
Rhenish cherries at midsummer. But go away now as quickly as you can and don't stand there
looking like a dog when a cat has taken refuge in a tree." "Ah well, what shall I do?" said
Joseph, going away and leaving Bräsig to his fate.

Bräsig had not been long in his hiding-place, when he heard a light step on the gravel walk,
and, peering down, saw Lina going into the arbor with such a large bundle of work in her arms
that if she had finished it in one day it would have been difficult to keep her in sewing.
She laid her work on the table and, resting her head on her hand, sat gazing thoughtfully at
the blue sky beyond Bräsig's cherry-tree. "Ah, how happy I am," she said to herself in the
fulness of her grateful heart. "How happy I am. Mina is so kind to me; and so is Godfrey, or
why did he press my foot under the table at dinner. What made Bräsig stare at us so sharply,
I wonder? I think I must have blushed. What a good man Godfrey is. How seriously and learnedly
he can talk. How decided he is, and I think he has the marks of his spiritual calling written
in his face. He isn't the least bit handsome it is true; Rudolph is much better looking, but
then Godfrey has an air with him that seems to say, 'don't disturb me by telling me of any
of your foolish worldly little vanities, for I have high thoughts and aspirations, I am going
to be a clergyman.' I'll cut his hair short though as soon as I have the power." It is a great
blessing that every girl does not set her heart on having a handsome husband, for otherwise
we ugly men would all have to remain bachelors; and pleasant looking objects we should be in
that case, as I know of nothing uglier than an ugly old bachelor. Lina's last thought, that
of cutting Godfrey's hair, had shown so much certainty of what was going to happen, that she
blushed deeply, and as at the same moment she heard a slow dignified step approaching, she
snatched up her work and began to sew busily.

Godfrey seated himself at a little distance from his cousin, opened his book and began to read,
but every now and then he peeped over the edge of it, either because he had read it before,
or because he was thinking of something else. That is always the way with Methodistical divinity
students even when they firmly believe what they teach. Before the examination they think of
nothing but their spiritual calling, but after the examination is well over human nature regains
its sway, and they look out for a fitting wife, before they begin to think of a parsonage.
Godfrey was like all the rest of his kind, and as no other girls except Mina and Lina had come
in his way, and as Lina attended to his admonitions far more docilely than her sister, he determined
to make her his helpmate. He was ignorant as to how such matters ought to be conducted, and
felt a little shy and awkward. He had got no further in his wooing than pressing his lady-love's
foot under the table, and whenever he had done so he was always much more confused than Lina,
whose foot had received the pressure.

However he had determined that the whole matter should be settled that day, so he began: "I
brought this book out entirely for your sake, Lina. Will you listen to a bit of it just now?"
"Yes," said Lina. "What a slow affair it's going to be," thought Bräsig, who could hardly be
said to be lying on a bed of roses, his position in the cherry-tree was so cramped and uncomfortable.
Godfrey proceeded to read a sermon on Christian marriage, describing how it should be entered
into, and what was the proper way of looking upon it. When he had finished he drew a little
nearer his cousin and asked: "What do you think of it, Lina?" "It's very nice," said Lina.
"Do you mean marriage?" asked Godfrey. "O-oh, Godfrey," said Lina, her head drooping lower
over her work. "No, Lina," Godfrey went on drawing a little closer to her, "it isn't at all
nice. I am thankful to see that you don't regard the gravest step possible in human life with
unbecoming levity. Marriage is a very hard thing, that is to say, in the Christian sense of
the word." He then described the duties, cares and troubles of married life as if he wished
to prepare Lina for taking up her abode in some penal settlement, and Bräsig, as he listened,
congratulated himself on having escaped such a terrible fate. "Yes," Godfrey continued, "marriage
is part of the curse that was laid on our first parents when they were thrust out of paradise."
So saying he opened his Bible and read the third chapter of Genesis aloud. Poor Lina did not
know what to do, or where to look, and Bräsig muttered: "The infamous Jesuit, to read all that
to the child." He nearly jumped down from the tree in his rage, and as for Lina, she would
have run away if it had not been the Bible her cousin was reading to her, so she hid her face
in her hands and wept bitterly. Godfrey was now quite carried away by zeal for his holy calling;
he put his arm round her waist, and said: "I could not spare you this at a time when I purpose
making a solemn appeal to you. Caroline Nüssler, will you, knowing the gravity of the step
you take, enter the holy estate of matrimony with me, and become my Christian helpmeet?" Lina
was so frightened and distressed at his whole conduct that she could neither speak nor think;
she could only cry.

At the same moment a merry song was heard at a little distance:

  "One bright afternoon I stood to look
  Into the depths of a silver brook,
  And there I saw little fishes swim,
  One of them was gray, I look'd at him.

  He was swimming, swimming and swimming
  And with delight seemed overbrimming;
  I never saw such a thing in my life
  As the little gray fish seeking a wife."

Lina struggled hard to regain her composure, and then, in spite of the Bible and the Christian
requirements demanded of her, she started up and rushed out of the arbor. On her way to the
house she passed Mina who was coming out to join her with her sewing. Godfrey followed Lina
with long slow steps, and looked as much put out as the clergyman who was interrupted in a
very long sermon by the beadle placing the church key on the reading desk and saying that he
might lock up the church himself when he had done, for he, the beadle, must go home to dinner.
Indeed he was in much the same position as that clergyman. Like him he had wished to preach
a very fine sermon, and now he was left alone in his empty church.

Mina was an inexperienced little thing, for she was the youngest of the family, but still she
was quick-witted enough to guess something of what had taken place. She asked herself whether
she would cry if the same thing were to happen to her, and what it would be advisable for her
to do under the circumstances. She seated herself quietly in the arbor, and began to unroll
her work, sighing a little as she did so at the thought of the uncertainty of her own fate,
and the impossibility of doing anything but wait patiently. "Bless me!" said Bräsig to himself
as he lay hidden in the tree. "This little round-head has come now, and I've lost all feeling
in my body. It's a horribly slow affair!" But the situation was soon to become more interesting,
for shortly after Mina had taken her seat a handsome young man came round the corner of the
arbor with a fishing rod over his shoulder and a fish basket on his back. "I'm so glad to find
you here, Mina," he exclaimed, "of course you've all finished dinner." "You need hardly ask,
Rudolph. It has just struck two." "Ah well," he said, "I suppose that my aunt is very angry
with me again."

"You may be certain of that, and she was displeased with you already, you know, even without
your being late for dinner. I'm afraid, however, that your own stomach will punish you more
severely than my mother's anger could do, you've neglected it so much today." "All the better
for you tonight. I really couldn't come sooner, the fish were biting so splendidly. I went
to the black pool today, though Bräsig always advised me not to go there, and now I know why.
It's his larder. When he can't catch anything else--where he's sure of a bite in the black
pool. It's cram full of tench. Just look, did you ever see such beauties?" and he opened the
lid of his basket as he spoke, and showed his spoil, adding: "I've done old Bräsig this time
at any rate!" "The young rascal!" groaned Bräsig as he poked his nose through the cherry-leaves,
making it appear like a huge pickled capsicum such as Mrs. Nüssler was in the habit of preserving
in cherry-leaves for winter use. "The young rascal to go and catch my tench! Bless me! what
monsters the rogue has caught!" "Give them to me, Rudolph," said Mina. "I will take them into
the house, and will bring you something to eat out here." "Oh no, never mind" "But you musn't
starve," she said. "Very well then--anything will do. A bit of bread and butter will be quite
enough, Mina." The girl went away, and Rudolph seated himself in the arbor. "The devil take
it!" muttered Bräsig, stretching his legs softly, and twisting and turning in the vain endeavor
to find a part of his body which was not aching from his cramped position. "The wretch is sitting
there now! I never saw such goings on!"

Rudolph sat buried in thought, a very unusual circumstance with him. He was easy-going by nature,
and never troubled himself beforehand about vexations that might come to him. He was not in
the habit of brooding over his worries, but on the contrary always tried to forget them. He
was tall and strongly made, and his mischievous brown eyes had sometimes a look of imperious
audacity which was in perfect keeping with the scar on his sunburnt cheek that bore witness
that he had not devoted his whole time and energy to the study of dogmatic theology. "Yes,"
he said to himself as he sat there waiting for his cousin, "I must get myself out of this difficulty!
I could bear it as long as it was far off, for there was always plenty of time to come to a
decision, but two things must be settled today beyond recall. My father is coming this afternoon.
I only hope that my mother won't take it into her head to come too, or I should never have
courage to do it. I'm as well suited to be a clergyman as a donkey is to play the guitar, or
as Godfrey is to be colonel of a cavalry regiment. If Bräsig were only here, he'd stand by
me I know. And then Mina--I wish it were all settled with her." At this moment Mina appeared
carrying a plate of bread and butter--Rudolph sprang up, exclaiming: "What a dear good little
girl you are, Mina!" and he threw his arm round her waist as he spoke. Mina freed herself from
him, saying: "Don't do that. Ah, how could you have been so wicked? My mother is very angry
with you." "You mean about the sermon," he answered; "well, yes, it was a stupid trick." "No,"
said Mina quickly, "it was a wicked trick. You made game of holy things." "Not a bit of it,"
he replied. "These trial sermons are not holy things, even when they are preached by our pious
cousin Godfrey." "But, Rudolph, it was in church!" "Ah, Mina, I confess that it was a silly
joke. I didn't think sufficiently of what I was doing. I only thought of the sheepish look
of amazement Godfrey's face would wear, and that tickled me so much that I was mad enough to
play the trick. Now don't let us talk any more about it, Mina," he said coaxingly, as he slipped
his arm round her waist again. "No, I won't allow that," said Mina. "And," she went on, "the
parson said that if he were to make the story known, you'd never get a living all your life."
"Then I hope that he'll tell every one what I did and it'll end all the bother." "What do you
mean?" asked Mina, pushing him from her and staring at him in perplexity. "Are you in earnest?"

"Never more so in my life. I've entered the pulpit for the first and last time." "Rudolph!"
cried Mina in astonishment. "What's the use of trying to make me a clergy man," said Rudolph
quickly. "Look at Godfrey and then look at me. Do you think I should make a good parson? And
then, there's another thing, even if I were so well up in theology that I could puzzle the
learned professors themselves, they would never pass me in the examination. All that they care
about is having men who can adopt all their cant phrases. If I were the apostle Paul himself
they'd refuse to pass me, if they caught sight of this little scar upon my cheek." "What are
you going to do then?" asked Mina anxiously, and laying her hand upon his arm, she added: "Oh,
don't be a soldier!" "I should think not! No, I want to be a farmer." "The confounded young
rascal!" muttered Bräsig. "Yes, my own dear little Mina," continued Rudolph, drawing her to
his side on the bench, "I intend to be a farmer; a real good, hard-working farmer, and you,
dear Mina, must help me to become one." "What!" said Bräsig to himself, "is she to teach him
to plough and harrow?" "I, Rudolph?" asked Mina. "Yes, my sweet child," he answered, stroking
her smooth hair and soft cheeks; then taking her chin in his hand, he raised her face toward
him, and looking into her blue eyes, went on: "If I could only be certain that you'd consent
to be my little wife as soon as I'd a home to offer you, it would make everything easy to me,
and I should be sure of learning to be a good farmer. Will you, Mina, will you?" Mina began
to cry softly, and Rudolph kissed away the tears as they rolled down her cheeks, and then she
laid her little round-head on his shoulder. Rudolph gave her time to recover her composure,
and after a few minutes she told him in a low whisper that she would do as he asked, so he
kissed her again and again. Bräsig seeing this exclaimed half aloud: "The devil take him! Stop
that!" Rudolph found time to tell her in the midst of his kissing that he intended to speak
to his father that afternoon, and said amongst other things that it was a pity Bräsig was not
there, as he was sure he would have helped him to make his explanation to his father, who,
he knew, thought a great deal of Bräsig's advice. "The young rascal to catch my fish!" muttered
Bräsig. Then Mina said: "Bräsig was here this morning and dined with us. I daresay he is enjoying
an after-dinner sleep now." "Just listen to little round-head," said Bräsig to himself. "An
after-dinner sleep indeed! But everything is settled now, and I needn't cramp my bones up here
any longer." And while Rudolph was saying that he would like to see the old man before he went
into the house, Bräsig slipped out of his hiding-place in the cherry-tree, and clinging with
both hands to the lowest branch, let his legs dangle in the air, and shouted: "Here he is!"
Bump! He came down on the ground, and stood before the lovers with an expression on his red
face which seemed to say that he considered himself a competent judge on even the most delicate
points of feeling.

The two young people were not a little startled. Mina hid her face in her hands as Lina had
done, but she did not cry; and she would have run away like Lina if she and uncle Bräsig had
not always been on the most confidential terms with each other. She threw herself into uncle
Bräsig's arms, and in her desire to hide her blushing face, she tried to burrow her little
round-head into his waistcoat-pocket, exclaiming: "Uncle Bräsig, uncle Bräsig, you're a very
naughty old man!" "Oh!" said Bräsig, "you think so, do you?" "Yes," answered Rudolph, who had
mounted his high horse, "you ought to be ashamed of listening to what you were not intended
to hear." "Moshoo Rudolph," said the old bailiff stiffly, "I may as well tell you once for
all, that shame is a thing that must never be mentioned in connection with me, and if you think
that your grand airs will have any effect upon me, you're very much, mistaken." Rudolph saw
clearly that such was the case, and as he did not want to quarrel with the old man for Mina's
sake, he relented a little, and said more gently that he would think nothing more of what had
occurred, if Bräsig could assure him that he had got into the tree by accident, but still he
considered that Bräsig ought to have coughed, or done something to make his presence known,
instead of sitting still and listening to the whole story from A to Z. "Oh," said Bräsig, "I
ought to have coughed, you say, but I groaned loud enough, I can tell you, and you couldn't
have helped hearing me if you hadn't been so much taken up with what you yourself were about.
But you ought to be ashamed of yourself for having fallen in love with Mina without Mrs. Nüssler's
leave." Rudolph replied that that was his own affair, that no one had a right to meddle, and
that Bräsig understood nothing about such things. "What!" said Bräsig. "Have you ever been
engaged to three girls at once. I have, Sir, and quite openly too, and yet you say that I know
nothing about such things! But sneaks are all alike. First of all you catch my fish secretly
in the black pool, and then you catch little Mina in the arbor before my very eyes. No, no,
let him be, Mina. He shall not hurt you." "Ah, uncle Bräsig!" entreated Mina, "do help us,
we love each other so dearly." "Yes, let him be, Mina, you're my little godchild; you'll soon
get over it." "No, Mr. Bräsig," cried Rudolph, laying his hand on the old man's shoulder, "no,
dear good uncle Bräsig, we'll never get over it; it'll last as long as we live. I want to be
a farmer, and if I have the hope before me of gaining Mina for my wife some day, and if," he
added slyly, "you will help me with your advice, I can't help becoming a good one." "What a
young rascal!" said Bräsig to himself, then aloud: "Ah yes, I know you! You'd be a latin farmer
like Pistorius, and Prætorius, and Trebonius. You'd sit on the edge of a ditch and read the
book written by the fellow with the long string of titles of honor, I mean the book about oxygen,
nitrogen, and organisms, whilst the farm-boys spread the manure over your rye-field in lumps
as big as your hat. Oh, I know you!

"I've only known one man who took to farming after going through all the classes at the high-school,
who turned out well. I mean young Mr. von Rambow, Hawermann's pupil." "Oh, uncle Bräsig," said
Mina, raising her head slowly and stroking the old man's cheek, "Rudolph can do as well as
Frank." "No, Mina, he can't. And shall I tell you why? Because he's only a gray-hound, while
the other is a man." "Uncle Bräsig," said Rudolph, "I suppose you are referring to that silly
trick that I played about the sermon, but you don't know how Godfrey plagued me in his zeal
for converting me. I really couldn't resist playing him a trick." "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Bräsig.
"No, I didn't mean that, I was very much amused at that. So he wanted to convert you, and perhaps
induce you to give up fishing? He tried his hand at converting again this afternoon, but Lina
ran away from him; however that doesn't matter, it's all right." "With Lina and Godfrey?" asked
Mina anxiously. "And did you hear all that passed on that occasion too?" "Of course I did.
It was for her sake entirely that I hid myself in that confounded cherry-tree. But now come
here, Moshoo Rudolph. Do you promise never to enter a pulpit again, or to preach another sermon?"
"Never again." "Do you promise to get up at three o'clock in the morning in summer, and give
out the feeds for the horses?" "Punctually." "Do you promise to learn how to plough, harrow,
mow and bind properly? I mean to bind with a wisp, there's no art in doing it with a rope."
"Yes," said Rudolph. "Do you promise when coming home from market never to sit in an inn over
a punch-bowl while your carts go on before, so that you are obliged to reel after them?" "I
promise never to do so," said Rudolph. "Do you promise--Mina, do you see that pretty flower
over there, the blue one I mean, will you bring it to me, I want to smell it--do you promise,"
he repeated as soon as Mina was out of hearing, "never to flirt with any of those confounded
farm-girls?" "Oh, Mr. Bräsig, do you take me for a scoundrel?" asked Rudolph, turning away
angrily. "No, no," answered Bräsig, "but I want you to understand clearly from the very beginning
that I will strangle you if ever you cause my little godchild to shed a tear." And as he spoke
he looked so determined, that one might have thought he was going to begin the operation at
once. "Thank you, Mina," he said, taking the flower from her, and after smelling it putting
it in his button-hole. "And now come here, Mina, and I will give you my blessing. Nay, you
needn't go down on your knees, for I'm not one of your parents, I'm only your godfather. And,
Moshoo Rudolph, I promise to take your part this afternoon when your father comes, and to help
you to free yourself from being bound to a profession you don't like. Come away both of you,
we must go in now. But, Rudolph, remember you musn't sit on the grass and read, but must see
to the proper manuring of your fields yourself. Look, this is the way the farm-lads ought to
hold their pitch-forks, not like that. Bang! and tumble off all that is on it; no, they must
shake the fork gently three or four times, breaking and spreading the manure as they do so.
When a bit of ground is properly spread it ought to look as smooth and clean as a velvet table-cover."
He then went into the house accompanied by the two young people.

[The love affairs of both young couples ran smoothly, since uncle Bräsig was on their side.
Godfrey and Lina were married first and, when pastor Behrens died, moved into the parsonage
of Gürlitz, for Godfrey was elected the dear old man's successor. Rudolph studied agriculture
and, when he had mastered his subject, returned to Rexow, where he was intrusted with the management
of the farm, and married Mina. No finer wedding had ever been celebrated in the neighborhood.
All the rich relatives of Joseph Nüssler were present, in addition to the more intimate friends.
There was also a horde of young people whom uncle Bräsig had been permitted to invite from
Rahnstaedt, where he had been living since his retirement on a pension.

Mina looked for all the world like a rosy apple lying on a silver plate surrounded by its green
leaves as she stood there in her white satin gown and myrtle wreaths. Uncle Bräsig was groomsman,
and blew his nose energetically as he said: "My little Mina! My little godchild! How happy
she looks!" and every time one of the fat old Nüssler's gave Mina a kiss, he bent down and
kissed Mrs. Behrens, as much as to imply that he thought this would prevent any contamination
of his goddaughter by the foolish old Nüsslers with their wretched worldly notions. But finally,
when Bräsig was about to salute her again, she said: "You ought to be ashamed of yourself,
Bräsig." Then Bräsig drew back rather crestfallen and said: "Don't take it ill of me, Mrs.
Behrens, my feelings ran away with me."

Those kindly feelings often ran away with him and enabled him to bring happiness to his friends
where more cautious people would have been helpless. It was he who unraveled the mystery which
had cast a shadow over the good name of Hawermann, and who at the proper moment called Frank
von Rambow home from Paris. When Hawermann had received the news that he was cleared, and Mrs.
Behrens wished to go to him at once, uncle Bräsig drew her gently back to the sofa and said:
"Not quite yet, Mrs. Behrens. You see, I think that Hawermann wants to have a little quiet
time to tell God all about it, and that Louisa is helping him. It's enough for her to be there,
for as you know our God is a jealous God, and doesn't suffer people to meddle, when he is speaking
to a soul that is filled with gratitude to Him." Little Mrs. Behrens gazed at him in speechless
amazement. At last she murmured: "Oh, Bräsig, I've always looked upon you as a heathen, and
now I see that you're a Christian." "I know nothing about that, Mrs. Behrens. I'm sure of this,
however, that what little I've been able to do in this matter has been done as an assessor
and not as a Christian." Uncle Bräsig, you must know, had recently been appointed an assessor
to the Rahnstaedt court, and he was as proud of his new title as he had been of that of "farm-bailiff"
before.

As the years advanced, his friends prospered, while Pomuchelskopp, whom the Gürlitz laborers
had badly treated in the revolution of 1848, sold his estates and moved away. Uncle Bräsig
went about visiting his friends, and on one such visit had an attack of gout that would have
been of little consequence, but which seized both legs and then mounted into his stomach, because
of a chill he got on his journey home. And that caused his death. Mrs. Behrens, Mrs. Nüssler,
and his old friend Charles Hawermann came round his bed. He held Mrs. Nüssler's hand tight
all the while. Suddenly he raised himself and said: "Mrs. Nüssler, please put your hand on
my head; I have always loved you. Charles Hawermann, will you rub my legs, they're so cold."
Hawermann did as he was asked, and Bräsig said, very slowly with one of his old smiles: "In
style I was always better than you." That was all.]

ADALBERT STIFTER

       *       *       *       *       *

ROCK CRYSTAL[10] (1846)

TRANSLATED BY LEE M. HOLLANDER, PH.D.

Among the high mountains of our fatherland there lies a little village with a small but very
pointed church-tower which emerges with red shingles from the green of many fruit-trees, and
by reason of its red color is to be seen far and away amid the misty bluish distances of the
mountains. The village lies right in the centre of a rather broad valley which has about the
shape of a longish circle. Besides the church it contains a school, a townhall, and several
other houses of no mean appearance, which form a square on which stand four linden-trees surrounding
a stone cross. These buildings are not mere farms but house within them those handicrafts which
are indispensable to the human race and furnish the mountaineers with all the products of industry
which they require. In the valley and along the mountain-sides many other huts and cots are
scattered, as is very often the case in mountain regions. These habitations belong to the parish
and school-district and pay tribute to the artisans we mentioned by purchasing their wares.
Still other more distant huts belong to the village, but are so deeply ensconced in the recesses
of the mountains that one cannot see them at all from the valley. Those who live in them rarely
come down to their fellow-parishioners and in winter frequently must keep their dead until
after the snows have melted away in order to give them a burial. The greatest personage whom
the villagers get to see in the course of the year is the priest.

They greatly honor him, and usually he himself through a longer sojourn becomes so accustomed
to the solitude of the valley that he not unwillingly stays and simply lives on there. At least,
it has not happened in the memory of man that the priest of the village had been a man hankering
to get away or unworthy of his vocation.

No roads lead through the valley. People use their double-track cart-paths upon which they
bring in the products of their fields in carts drawn by one horse. Hence, few people come into
the valley, among them sometimes a solitary pedestrian who is a lover of nature and dwells
for some little time in the upper room of the inn and admires the mountains; or perhaps a painter
who sketches the small, pointed spire of the church and the beautiful summits of the rocky
peaks. For this reason the villagers form a world by themselves. They all know each other by
name and their several histories down from the time of grandfather and great-grandfather; they
all mourn when one of them dies; know what name the new-born will receive; they have a language
differing from that of the plains; they have their quarrels, which they settle among themselves;
they assist one another and flock together when something extraordinary has happened.

They are conservative and things are left to remain as they were. Whenever a stone drops out
of a wall, the same stone is put back again, the new houses are built like the old ones, the
dilapidated roofs are repaired with the same kind of shingles, and if there happen to be brindled
cows on a farm, calves of the same color are raised always, so that the color stays on the farm.

To the south of the village one sees a snow-mountain which seems to lift up its shining peaks
right above the roofs of the houses. Yet it is not quite so near. Summer and winter it dominates
the valley with its beetling crags and snowy sides. Being the most remarkable object in the
landscape, this mountain is of main interest to the inhabitants and has become the central
feature of many a story.

There is not a young man or graybeard in the village but can tell of the crags and crests of
the mountain, of its crevasses and caves, of its torrents and screes, whether now he knows
it from his own experience or from hearsay. The mountain is the boast of the villagers as if
it were a work of theirs and one is not so sure, however high one may esteem the plain-spokenness
and reputation for truth-telling of the natives, whether they do not fib, now and then, to
the honor and glory of their mountain. Besides being the wonder of the valley, the mountain
affords actual profit; for whenever a company of tourists arrives to ascend the mountain the
natives serve as guides; and to have been a guide, to have experienced this or that, to know
this or that spot, is a distinction every one likes to gain for himself. The mountain often
is the object of their conversation at the inn, when they sit together and tell of their feats
and wonderful experiences; nor do they omit to relate what this or that traveler had said and
what reward they had received from him for their labor. Furthermore, the snowy sides of the
mountain feed a lake among its heavily forested recesses, from which a merry brook runs through
the valley, drives the saw-mill and the flour-mill, cleanses the village and waters the cattle.
The forests of the mountain furnish timber and form a bulwark against the avalanches.

The annual history of the mountain is as follows: In winter, the two pinnacles of its summit,
which they call horns, are snow-white and, when visible on bright days, tower up into the blackish
blue of the sky in dazzling splendor, and all its shoulders are white, too, and all slopes.
Even the perpendicular precipices, called walls by the natives, are covered with white frost
delicately laid on, or with thin ice adhering to them like varnish, so that the whole mass
looms up like an enchanted castle from out of the hoary gray of the forests which lie spread
out heavily about its base. In summer, when the sun and warm winds melt the snow from their
steep sides, the peaks soar up black into the sky and have only beautiful veins and specks
of white on their flanks--as the natives say. But the fact is, the peaks are of a delicate,
distant blue, and what they call veins and specks is not white, but has the lovely milk-blue
color of distant snow against the darker blue of the rocks. When the weather is hot, the more
elevated slopes about the peaks do not lose their covering of eternal snow. On the contrary
it then gleams with double resplendence down upon the green of the trees in the valley; but
the winter's snow is melted off their lower parts. Then becomes visible the bluish or greenish
iridescence of the glaciers which are bared and gleam down upon the valley below. At the edge
of this iridescence, there where it seems from the distance like a fringe of gems, a nearer
view reveals confused masses of wild and monstrous boulders, slabs, and fragments piled up
in chaotic fashion. In very hot and long summers, the ice-fields are denuded even in the higher
regions, and then a much greater amount of blue-green glacier-ice glances down into the valley,
many knobs and depressions are laid bare which one otherwise sees only covered with white,
the muddy edge of the ice comes to view with its deposit of rocks, silt, and slime, and far
greater volumes of water than usual rush into the valley. This continues until it gradually
becomes autumn again, the waters grow less, and one day a gray continuous gentle rain spreads
over all the valley. Then, after the mists have dispersed about the summits, the mountain is
seen to have draped itself again in its soft robe of snow, and all crags, cones, and pinnacles
are vested in white. Thus it goes on, year after year, with but slight divergences, and thus
it will go on so long as nature remains the same, and there is snow upon the heights and people
live in the valleys. But to the natives these changes seem great, they pay much attention to
them and calculate the progress of the seasons by them.

The ascent of the mountain is made from our valley. One follows a fine road which leads south
to another valley over a so-called "neck." Neck they call a moderately high mountain-ridge
which connects two mountain-ranges of considerable magnitude and over which one can pass from
one valley to another between the mountains. The neck which connects our snow-mountain with
another great mountain-mass is altogether covered with pine-forests. At its greatest elevation,
where the road begins gradually to descend into the valley beyond, there stands a post erected
to commemorate a calamity. Once upon a time a baker carrying bread in a basket slung around
his neck was found dead on that spot. They painted a picture of the dead baker with his basket
and the pine-trees round about, and beneath it an explanation with a request for prayer from
the passer-by, and this picture they fastened to a wooden post painted red, and erected it
at the spot where the accident occurred. At this post, then, one leaves the road and continues
along the ridge of the "neck" instead of crossing it and descending into the valley beyond.
There is an opening among the pine-trees at that spot, as if there were a road between them.
In fact, a path is sometimes made in that direction which then serves to bring down timber
from the higher regions, but which is afterward overgrown again with grass. Proceeding along
this way, which gently ascends, one arrives at last at a bare, treeless region. It is barren
heath where grows nothing but heather, mosses, and lichens. It grows ever steeper, the further
one ascends; but one always follows a gully resembling a rounded out ditch which is convenient,
as one cannot then miss one's way in this extensive, treeless, monotonous region. After a while,
rocks as large as churches rise out of the grassy soil, between whose walls one climbs up still
farther. Then there are again bleak ridges, with hardly any vegetation, which reach up into
the thinner air of higher altitudes and lead straight to the ice. At both sides of this path,
steep ledges plunge down, and by this natural causeway the snow-mountain is joined to the "neck."
In order to surmount the ice one skirts it for some distance where it is surrounded by rock-walls,
until one comes to the old hard snow which bridges the crevasses and at most seasons of the
year bears the weight of the climber.

From the highest point of this snowfield, two peaks tower up, of which the one is higher and,
therefore, the summit of the mountain. These pinnacles are very hard to climb. As they are
surrounded by a chasm of varying width--the bergschrund--which one must leap over, and as their
precipitous escarpments afford but small footholds, most of the tourists climbing the mountain
content themselves with reaching the bergschrund and from there enjoy the panorama. Those who
mean to climb to the top must use climbing-irons, ropes, and, iron spikes.

Besides this mountain there are still others south of the valley, but none as high. Even if
the snow begins to lie on them early in fall and stays till late in spring, midsummer always
removes it, and then the rocks gleam pleasantly in the sunlight, and the forests at their base
have their soft green intersected by the broad blue shadows of these peaks which are so beautiful
that one never tires of looking at them.

On the opposite, northern, eastern, and western sides of the valley the mountains rise in long
ridges and are of lower elevation: scattered fields and meadows climb up along their sides
till rather high up, and above them one sees clearings, chalets, and the like, until at their
edge they are silhouetted against the sky with their delicately serrated forest--which is indicative
of their inconsiderable height--whereas the mountains toward the south, though also magnificently
wooded, cut off the shining horizon with entirely smooth lines.

When one stands about in the centre of the valley it would seem as if there were no way out
or into the basin; but people who have often been in the mountains are familiar with this illusion:
the fact is, diverse roads lead through the folds of the mountains to the plains to the north,
some of them with hardly a rise; and to the south where the valley seems shut in by precipitous
mountain-walls, a road leads over the "neck" mentioned above.

The village is called Gschaid and the snow-mountain looking down upon it, Gars.

On the other side of the "neck" there lies a valley by far more beautiful and fertile than
that of Gschaid. At its entrance there lies a country-town of considerable size named Millsdorf
which has several industrial enterprizes and carries on almost urban trade and business. Its
inhabitants are much more well-to-do than those of Gschaid and, although only three hours away,
which for these labor-loving mountaineers used to great distances is only a bagatelle, yet
manners and customs are so different in the two valleys and even their external appearance
is so unlike that one might suppose a great number of miles lay between. This is of common
occurrence in the mountains and due not only to the more or less favored position of the valleys
but also to the spirit of the natives who by reason of their differing occupations are inclined
this way or that. But in this they all agree, that they adhere to established customs and the
usages of their forefathers, lightly bear the absence of great traffic, cling to their native
valley with an extraordinary love; in fact, can hardly live out of it.

Months, ay a whole year may pass without a native of Gschaid setting foot into the valley beyond
and visiting the town of Millsdorf. The same is true of the people of Millsdorf, although they
have more intercourse with the country beyond and hence live in less seclusion than the villagers
of Gschaid. A road which might be called a high-road leads through the length of their valley
and many a traveler passes through it without suspecting in the least that to the north of
him, on the other side of the snow-mountain towering high above him, there is another valley
with many scattered houses and the village with its pointed church-tower.

Among the trades of the village which supply the necessities of the valley is that of the shoemaker,
indispensible indeed to man excepting in his most primitive condition.

But the natives are so high raised above that condition that they stand in need of very good
and durable footgear for the mountains. The shoemaker is the only one of his trade in the valley--with
one inconsiderable exception. His house stands on the public square of Gschaid where most of
the larger dwellings are situated and its gray walls, white window-frames, and green shutters
face the four linden-trees. On the ground-floor are the workshop, the workmen's room, a larger
and a smaller sitting-room, the shop, and then the kitchen and pantry; the first story or,
more properly, the attic-space, contains the "upper-room" which is also the "best room." In
it there stand two beds of state, beautifully polished clothes-presses; there is a china-closet
with dishes, a table with inlaid work, upholstered easy-chairs, a strong-box for the savings.
Furthermore there hang on the walls pictures of saints, two handsome watches, being prizes
won in shooting-matches, and finally there are some rifles both for target-firing and hunting,
with all the necessary paraphernalia, carefully hung up in a special case with a glass-door.

Added to the shoemaker's house there is a smaller house, built exactly like it and, though
separated from it by an arched gateway, belonging to it like part of a whole. It has only one
large room with some closets. Its purpose is to serve the owner of the larger house as habitation
for the remainder of his days, after having left the property to his son or successor; there
to dwell with his wife until both are dead and the little house stands empty again and is ready
for another occupant. To the rear of the shoemaker's house are stable and barn; for every dweller
in the valley carries on farming along with his regular occupation and makes a good living
from it. Behind these buildings, finally, is the garden which is lacking to none of the better
houses of Gschaid, and from which the villagers obtain their vegetables, their fruit, and the
flowers necessary for festive occasions. And, as quite commonly in the mountains, apiculture
is pursued also in the gardens of Gschaid.

The small exception alluded to, and the only competitor of the shoemaker is a man of the same
trade, old Tobias, who is not a real rival, though, because he only cobbles and is kept quite
busy with that. Nor would he ever think of competing with the gentleman shoemaker of the township,
especially as the latter frequently provides him gratuitously with leather-cuttings, sole strips,
and the like. In summertime, old Tobias sits under a clump of elder-bushes at the end of the
village and works away. All about him are shoes and lace-boots, all of them, however, gray,
muddy, and torn. There are no high boots because these are not worn in the village and its
surroundings; only two personages own such boots, the priest and the schoolteacher, both of
whom have their new work and repairing done by the shoemaker. In winter, old Tobias sits in
his cot behind the elder-bushes and has it comfortably warm, because wood is not dear in Gschaid.

Before entering into possession of his house, the shoemaker had been a chamois-poacher--in
fact, had not exactly been a model in youth, so the people of Gschaid said. In school, he had
always been one of the brightest scholars. Afterwards, he had learned his father's trade and
had gone on his journeyman wanderings, finally returning to the village. Instead of wearing
a black hat, as befits a tradesman, and as his father had done all his life, he put on a green
one, decorated it with all the feathers obtainable and strutted around in the very shortest
homespun coat to be found in all the valley; whereas his father always had worn a coat of dark,
even black cloth with very long tails to indicate his station as tradesman. The young shoemaker
was to be seen on all dancing floors and bowling alleys. Whenever any one gave him a piece
of good advice he merely whistled. He attended all shooting-matches in the neighborhood with
his target-rifle and often brought back a prize, which he considered a great victory. The prize
generally consisted of coins artistically set. To win them, he frequently had to spend more
coins of the same value than the prize was worth--especially as he was very generous with his
money. He also participated in all the chases of the surrounding country and won a name as
a marksman. Sometimes, however, he issued alone with his double-barreled gun and climbing irons,
and once, it is said, returned with an ugly wound in his head.

In Millsdorf there lived a dyer who carried on a very notable industry. His works lay right
at the entrance of the town at the side toward Gschaid. He employed many people and even worked
with machines, which was an unheard of thing in the valley. Besides, he did extensive farming.
The shoemaker frequently crossed the mountain to win the daughter of this wealthy dyer. Because
of her beauty, but also because of her modesty and domesticity she was praised far and near.
Nevertheless the shoemaker, it is said, attracted her attention. The dyer did not permit him
to enter his house; and whereas his beautiful daughter had, even before that, never attended
public places and merry-makings, and was rarely to be seen outside the house of her parents,
now she became even more retiring in her habits and was to be seen only in church, in her garden,
or at home.

Some time after the death of his parents, by which the paternal house which he inhabited all
alone became his, the shoemaker became an altogether different man. Boisterous as he had been
before, he now sat in his shop and hammered away day and night. Boastingly, he set a prize
on it that there was no one who could make better shoes and footgear. He took none but the
best workmen and kept after them when they worked in order that they should do as he told them.
And really, he accomplished his desire, so that not only the whole village of Gschaid, which
for the most part had got its shoes from neighboring valleys, had their work done by him, but
the whole valley also. And finally he had some customers even from Millsdorf and other valleys.
Even down into the plains his fame spread so that a good many who intended to climb in the
mountains had their shoes made by him for that purpose.

He ordered his house very neatly and in his shop the shoes, lace-boots, and high boots shone
upon their several shelves; and when, on Sundays, the whole population of the valley came into
the village, gathering under the four linden trees of the square, people liked to go over to
the shoemaker's shop and look through the panes to watch the customers.

On account of the love he bore to the mountains, even now he devoted his best endeavor to the
making of mountain lace-shoes. In the inn he used to say that there was no one who could show
him any one else's mountain boots that could compare with his own. "They don't know," he was
accustomed to add, "and they have never learned it in all their life, how such a shoe is to
be made so that the firmament of the nails shall fit well on the soles and contain the proper
amount of iron, so as to render the shoe hard on the outside, so that no flint, however sharp,
can be felt through, and so that it on its inside fits the foot as snug and soft as a glove."

The shoemaker had a large ledger made for himself in which he entered all goods he had manufactured,
adding the names of those who had furnished the materials and of those who had bought the finished
goods, together with a brief remark about the quality of the product. Footgear of the same
kind bore their continuous numbers, and the book lay in the large drawer of his shop.

