Four State colleges offer Teacher Training courses but they are all elective as might be expected
since they are State colleges. In all cases these colleges would have to make the most of these
courses elective in order to avoid a conflict with State constitutions. Note, however, that
Florida Agricultural and Mechanical College offer courses in social service, which are required.
Of the 325 college students enrolled in these six State institutions 165 of these are enrolled
in the religious education courses. This is more than one-third of the entire number, a larger
proportion than in the private institutions.

The State colleges have voluntary religious organizations, but none of the conductors are professionally
trained. These courses are of the same type as those found in the private institutions, except
for the denominational features.

Alcorn A. and M. College has five men in the mission study class and five in the Bible study
class. Florida A. and M. College has eight in the Bible study class and three in the mission
study. The Georgia State College has twenty in the Bible and the Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical
College sixteen. The Agricultural and Technical College of Greensboro, North Carolina, reports
none in the Bible and mission study classes.

Religious services are not foreign to the State institutions for Negroes. They are the daily
chapel exercises, Sunday morning preaching, Sunday School, Sunday afternoon or evening services,
and the weekly prayer meeting. The chapel exercises are made compulsory for the students. The
nature of the service is very much like that in the denominational and private institutions
described above.

The Sunday services are as conspicuous in these State colleges for Negroes as they are in the
private and denominational institutions. Attendance is required by every one of the State institutions
being considered. Two of these have chaplains: the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Alabama
and Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College of Mississippi. In two instances the students
attend neighboring churches and have preachers from the outside to minister unto them. Sunday
School is conducted at each of the State colleges and attendance is required. Each has on Sunday
evening some kind of meeting which the students are required to attend.

The prayer meeting in Negro colleges, State as well as private and denominational, is a permanent
organization. Each of these State colleges report that the students are required to attend
the prayer meeting. As there are 187 boarding students in the State colleges of college rank,
this means a fair attendance at Sunday services and prayer in these institutions. The other
188 attend service promiscuously.

The week of prayer for colleges is observed by all, and all regard it a valuable asset to the
religious life of their student bodies. In 1916-1917 prior to the week of prayer 119 of the
325 students of college rank enrolled in these State colleges were not professed Christians.
Subsequent to the week of prayer 24 of the one hundred nineteen were left. Thus before the
week of prayer there was 63.3 per cent professed Christians. The week of prayer was instrumental
in reducing the percentage of non-confessors. After the week of prayer 92.6 per cent of all
of the students were professors of Christianity.

Here as in the other institutions the morning and evening devotions are daily for terse periods.
They precede breakfast, in the dining halls and at the close of the study periods. The services
of the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A., and the temperance societies are very much like the services
of these organizations in the denominational and private colleges and universities. The students
in State colleges have feelings similar to those in private colleges about religious services.
Very few are defenders of the weekly prayer meetings.

Expressional activities at State colleges are not wanting. The six colleges report service
rendered in the college church and voluntary religious organizations. Seventy-seven teach Sunday
School. Five of these colleges are situated in the rural districts and there are students who
serve the rural communities in church work. All of them do some extension work of a religious
nature. Periodically the students are sent out to investigate conditions among the poor and
to offer services to relieve these conditions. Under this social service are lectures and demonstrations
portraying ideals which are genuinely religious. The great majority of the students of college
grade are assistants to the professors in this work. Five do special social service work during
three holidays, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day. They take food, fuel, clothes and
money to the needy of their communities.

THE CONCEPTION OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES

An exhaustive psychological analysis of the conception of religious education is not the aim
of this part of the study. But from certain data which has come out of the study one is able
to obtain ideas concerning the view of the educators on the aim of religious education and
the degree in which this aim is being attained. We note in the first place that all of those
who answered the questionnaires were cognizant of the religious motives in education. Perhaps
a few typical quotations will emphasize that. "I think much personal good is done. The student
gets a clearer idea of the Bible and its value in the world today." "I regard the course in
religion as vital and essential to any thorough education." "The religious value of the course
given is inestimable." "The religious training through these courses gives education the impetus
which pushes it on to its goal." "The religious courses are regarded as valuable adjuncts to
the educational institutions." "I have abundant data from graduates of this institution and
other individuals of our constituency confirming our opinion of the abiding gains for character
and efficiency through the influence of these courses and their expression in service." "Experience
is the basis of the conclusion that the religious work in the colleges gives sympathetic training
for efficient service. More attention must be given to our curricula in this respect." "The
students who are most exemplary in worthwhile endeavor are prominent in these courses and organizations."
"I have a high estimate of the actual work done by these students and of the development of
their own character."

An examination of the statements concerning the religious aims and privileges published in
the catalogues of these schools show that, theoretically at least, they have begun their task
in directing the educative process with a consciousness of the choice place of moral and spiritual
culture in the task. To illustrate, let us note the following: "The aim of all the religious
work in our institution is to build up a strong Christian character, to develop the spirit
of service, and to train in the methods and the habit of religious work." "This work aims at
teaching colored young people how to want the best things in life, and at training them in
ability to get those things by skill of hand and power of mind. Character and efficiency are
thus the twin essentials of the ideal. It would enable its pupils to make a sufficient living,
teach them to live efficient lives, and inspire them to render society sufficient service.
To hold such an aim thoroughgoingly is to be positively Christian." "To all who are inclined
to respect the Christian religion and its institutions, the welcome hand will be heartily extended;
but to those whose influence will be prejudicial to religion and good morals, no protracted
stay can be allowed; since the success of an educational institution is strictly proportional
to its moral tone." "Self-mastery, symmetrical character, high ideals and purposes are regarded
as the chief ends of education. Special attention is given to the spiritual needs of the students.
In the life and discipline of the school, constant effort is made to inculcate Christian principles."
These are some of the typical statements published in catalogues, announcements and in other
college advertising media.

One will note that although the great majority of these colleges and universities are sectarian
they have refrained, theoretically at least, from obtruding sectarianism in the religious education.
They have made sectarianism take at least a secondary place. This is further strengthened by
the fact that there are in these denominational schools 36 Catholics who apparently have met
no offensive media of instruction.

The results justify the following statement concerning the conception of religious education
in Negro colleges and universities: They conceive religious education to be no quantum of doctrine
but a life lived efficiently, being animated by the social service motive. Thus religious education
is social evolution, and ninety-nine per cent of those in charge of these institutions have
conceptions of religious education becoming more efficient than it now is. As proof of this,
I may cite the results of their answers to question; fifteen in the general questionnaire.
This question is: "In your opinion are the Negro colleges meeting the needs of definite religious
training?" Every one's answer except one might be summarized thus: Some good has been accomplished
but we are far from the real goal. We need reconstruction and a new impetus.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an essential in the process
of religious education does seem to indicate that they regard self activity. Wherever the social
service was very scant the one reporting felt it his duty to give an apology for the actual
conditions and express a hope of better results in the future. This showed that they felt it
the vital factor in the progressive socialization of the individuals. The place of prominence
given to worship, to religious services on Sunday and in the week is either an index to their
conception concerning the value of worship or else an index of their habit toward orthodoxy.
Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former for the larger number of these
institutions.

SOME CURRENT CONCEPTIONS OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN RELATION TO GENERAL EDUCATION

Religious education is considered a part of general education and is included under that genus.
What is general education? For a long time education was defined in terms of intellect, but
that ground is no longer tenable. Spencer said: "Education is the preparation for complete
living." Modern educators reject this as an inadequate statement of education. Education does
not merely prepare for something in the future. It endeavors to fill one full of life, and
human experience during the educative process. Education must be expressed in social terms.
James describes education as the organization of acquired habits of conduct and tendencies
to behavior. This emphasizes the psychological side.

It was thought that the aim of education could be expressed in purely individual terms. It
was said to be the harmonious development of all the powers of the individual. Dewey attacks
this definition showing that there is no criterion for telling what is meant by the terms used.
There is nothing in the make-up of human beings, taken in any isolated way which furnishes
controlling ends and serves to mark out powers. Unless we have the aim supplied by social life
we have only the old faculty psychology to furnish us with ideas of powers in general or the
specific powers.[3] Dewey defines education as the regulation of the process of coining to
share in the social consciousness. And the majority of educators use social terms to define
education. Soares has this conception in mind when he gives the following definition of education.
"Education is a scientifically directed process of developing progressive socialized personality."
But to achieve personality one must achieve sympathy and sympathy is one of the concerns of
religion. Hence all true education involves religion.

What is religion? Wright in the American Journal of Theology, Volume XVI, page 385, quotes
Leuba as defining religion as a belief in a psychic superhuman power. Wright has objections
to this definition on the ground of its narrowness. He attempts to add breadth to the definition
in: "Religion is the endeavor to secure the conservation of socially recognized values, through
specific actions that are believed to evoke some agency different from the ordinary ego of
the individual or from other merely human beings, and that imply a feeling of dependence upon
this agency. Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment." This is not
synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies. Creeds and ceremonies have to do
with ecclesiasticism not with religion per se. Creeds are developments of theology and dogma
is an outgrowth of religion and not religion. Modes of worship developed into rites and ceremonies
are ecclesiastical means of fostering the religious spirit but not religion. Religion is not
a feeling to be imposed from without. Religion is a life and a life-long process. "The religious
life is the response the heart of man makes to God, as the heart of the universe. The religious
person is one who is conscious of his divinity because of his kinship with the universe through
God, and who because of this consciousness seeks fellowship with God and the Godly."

Having arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion which are given by some
of the most representative students of the subjects, let us ascertain some conceptions of religious
education. As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded
as a separate entity. It is a part of the process of efficient education. The human organism
is a unit. Life is a whole and connects physical, mental and religious phases. The whole personality
is the object for consideration for the educator. The emphasis in education varies from physical
to mental and from mental to religious, or social. When the emphasis is placed on the social
or religious phase the procedure may be properly called religious education.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion. He says: "Religious
education is the process by which the individual in response to a controlled environment, achieves
a progressive, conscious social[4] order based on regard for the worth and destiny of every
individual." Professor Peabody states the matter in the following words:[5] "Religious education
is the drawing out of the religious nature, the clarifying and strengthening of religious ideals,
the enriching and rationalizing of the sense of God.... The end of religious education is service...."
Dewey's idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions of religious education. The
standard of each is found in the functional relationship of each to society. Modes of expression
and emphasis may vary but the ideals for both are the same. Dr. Haslett[7] has given an unique
representation of this conception. "Religious education," says he, "is closely related to secular
education and is largely dependent upon it. The fundamental laws and principles of psychology
and of education require to be recognized as central." Professor Coe[8] reminds us, however,
that "religious education is not and cannot be a mere application of any generalities in which
the university departments of education deal. It is not a mere particular that gets its meaning
or finds its test in the general." Religious education deals with original data and with specific
problems that rarely appear in the instruction that is called 'general' and that grow out of
the specific nature of our educational purpose. In the analysis of these data and in the determination
of the method, we can and must use matter contained in general courses of education. But the
field of study of religious education is not exhausted there, but is so specific and yet so
broad as properly to constitute a recognized branch of educational practice. The religious
purpose in religious education yields the point of view and the principles of classification
that are important for religious educators.

The conceptions of religious education just passed in review warrant certain deductions. Any
institution which meets adequately the requirements of religious education must have genuinely
religious men and women in the entire teaching and official force. Such persons will determine
the atmosphere and spirit of the institution. These teachers should have clear conceptions
of the ideals of religious education. The blind cannot lead the blind. The students must be
trained along three fundamental lines, of the religious life. First, he must have some of the
intellectual value of religion. He must have social knowledge. He must have the opportunity
of expressing the devotional attitude in worship. He must have the outlet of religious energy
in social service. The duty of the college will be far from discharged unless it makes provision
for laboratory religion where there is a working place for each member. Religion is a life
and the college should be a society where this life may be lived in its fullest extent, encouraging
practical altruism and giving the protection which an ideal society affords against demoralization.

EVOLUTION OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

The problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real. On the basis of the investigation
we are able to point out some prominent phases of the problem. The first element of this problem
is the teacher. There are in Negro colleges, 22 teachers of religious education who have had
no professional training for the work. This means that one-fourth of the entire corp of teachers
of religion in these institutions are without the prestige, at least, of even the semblance
of professional training. Two main causes account for this. These institutions have not those
who are professionally trained on their faculties and they lack funds to procure the service
of such persons. In the next place they think it is not necessary.

One observation here is important. These services seem to be significant in proportion to the
participation in them by the students themselves. The Sunday School and the Young People's
meetings are the most popular services for the students. They do the things in which they have
a volitional interest. We cannot thrust our religious experiences upon the students from without.
They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with the environment in which they
live. The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow a program which was effective
for those who lived in another civilization. The traditional Negro prayer meeting does not
function religiously in the life of the Negro college student.

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard to religious services.
Where should that stop? Many are beginning to think that the religious value of the services
is often nullified by the compulsory attendance. There are many conscientious objectors among
the students who think the removal of compulsion would be conducive to better religious development.
But the likelihood of some swinging from one extreme to the other is very great. It is still
a problem left for the religious educators in the colleges to solve. The solution must result
in the conservation of the good found in the compulsory system and the good to be found in
freedom of choice.

Expressional activities are increasing in Negro colleges but with few exceptions these are
inadequate in scope and number. It is true that not enough students are able to share in the
social service projects. This is really one of, if not the most important factors in religious
education. Men gain religious power by acting out their beliefs, allowing their convictions
to flow out into service.

There is an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies in Negro colleges. Frequently
we find several organizations attempting to do the same thing and each makes a miserable failure
in the attempt. More than that, this lack of coordination and correlation results in duplications
which surely mean wasted energy and non-effectiveness. If all of the religious agencies were
supervised in such a way that each would know his specific task and would not overlap that
of other agencies, much more effective work would be the result.

There are signs of hope in the religious education of these Negro colleges. The almost unanimous
recognition of the religious motive in efficient education by the educators and the manifest
consciousness of needs of better religious education have been mentioned. There are others.
An increasing number of trained teachers from Northern, Eastern and Western colleges and universities
is evident. These men and women are coming from the institutions where the points of view and
training represented in the previous chapter are found. The summer schools of the various colleges
and universities in the North, East and West are offering many of these modern religious education
courses and larger numbers of the teachers of religious education are availing themselves of
the opportunities. Much literature of religious education published recently is finding its
way to these schools, the most notable of which is the Religious Education Magazine.

The following sources were used in the preparation of this dissertation: American Missionary
Association Report, 1916; Baptist Missionary Society (Woman's) Reports, 1910-1916; Catalogues--Negro
Colleges, 1916-1917; W. E.B. DuBois, Morals and Manners Among Negro Americans, Atlanta University
Publications, No. 18; Journal of the Proceedings of the A. M. E. Church (General Conference),
1916; Journal of the Proceedings of the Methodist Episcopal Church (General Conference), 1916;
Thomas J. Jones, Negro Education, United States Bureau of Education, Bulletins 38 and 39, 1916;
Thomas J. Jones, Recent Movements in Negro Education, United States Bureau of Education, 1912,
Vol. I; Questionnaires, from Negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau of Education Investigations,
Education in the South, Bulletin 30, 1933; Monroe N. Work, Negro Year Book, 1914, 1915, 1916;
Young Men's Christian Association, Report of the International Committee, May 12, 1916; Year
Book, 1915-1916.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W. S. Athearn, Religion in
the Curriculum-Religious Education; R. E. Bolton, Principles of Education; H. F. Cope, The
Efficient Layman; H. F. Cope, Fifteen Years of the Religious Education Association, The American
Journal of Theology, July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee Report, Standardization of Biblical Courses,
Rel. Educ. August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, The Media of Religious Impression in College,
N. E. A. 1914, p. 494 ff; John Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education, Moral Principles
in Education; T. S. O. Evans, The University Young Men's Christian Association as a Training
School for Religious Leaders, Rel. Educ. 1908; H. F. Fowler, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum
of Religious Education for Colleges, Rel. Educ. 1915, p. 355 ff; E. N. Hardy, The Churches
and The Educated Man; S. B. Haslett, Pedagogical Bible School, Parts I and II; International
Sunday School Association, Organized Work in America, Vol. XIII; C. F. Kent, Training the College
Teacher, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education, Vol. I, p. 370;
E. C. Moore, What is Education; A. Morgan, Education and Social Progress; F. G. Peabody, The
Religious Education of an American Child, Rel. Educ. 1915, p. 107; I. J. Peritz, The Contents
of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious Instruction, Rel. Educ. Vol. X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed,
The Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 66;
R. Rhees, Evangelisation of Education, Biblical World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh, The
Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 3; I. T.
Wood, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious Instruction for Colleges, Rel. Educ.
1915, Vol. X, p. 332; The Survey of Progress in Religious and Moral Education, Rel. Educ. 1915,
Vol. X, p. 114.

[2] None of these does all of the things described, but all of them do at least some one of them.

[3] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[4] Ideals in Religious Education, R.E.A., June, 1917, p. 185.

[5] Ibid., p. 94.

[6] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[7] Pedagogical Bible School, page 207.

[8] R. E. A., April 19, 1917, page 123.

THE AFTERMATH OF NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION[1]

Nat Turner was a man below the ordinary stature, though strong and active. He was of unmixed
African lineage, with the true Negro face, every feature of which was strongly marked. He was
not a preacher, as was generally believed, though a man of deep religious and spiritual nature,
and seemed inspired for the performance of some extraordinary work. He was austere in life
and manner, not given to society, but devoted his spare moments to introspection and consecration.
He thought often of what he had heard said of him as to the great work he was to perform. He
eventually became seized with this idea as a frenzy. To use his own language he saw many visions.

Receiving, as he says, further directions from the Holy Spirit, he communicated his designs
to four of his most confidential friends. July 4, 1831, the anniversary of American Independence,
was the day on which the work of death was to have been begun. Nat Turner hesitated and allowed
the time to pass by, when, the mysterious signs reappearing, he determined to begin at once
the bloody work. Sunday, August 21, he met those who had pledged their cooperation and support.
They were Hark Travis, Henry Porter, Samuel Francis, Nelson Williams, Will Francis and Jack
Reese, with Nat Turner making the seventh. They worked out their plans while they ate in the
lonely woods of Southampton their feast of consecration, remaining at the feast until long
after midnight. The massacre was begun at the house of Joseph Travis, the man to whom Nat Turner
then belonged. Armed with a hatchet Turner entered his master's chamber, the door having been
broken open with the axe, and aimed the first blow of death. The hatchet glanced harmless from
the head of the would-be victim and the first fatal blow was given by Will Francis, the one
of the party who had got into the plot without Nat Turner's suggestion. All of his master's
household, five in number, soon perished.[4]

The insurgents procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few rounds of ammunition.
At the barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was drilled and maneuvered. Nat Turner
himself assumed the title of General Cargill with a stipend of ten dollars a day. Henry Porter,
the paymaster, was to receive five dollars a day, and each private one dollar. Thence they
marched from plantation to plantation until by Monday morning the party numbered fifteen with
nine mounted. Before nine o'clock the force had increased to forty and the insurgents had covered
an extent of territory two or three miles distant from the first point of attack, sweeping
everything before them. Nat Turner generally took his station in the rear, with fifteen or
twenty of the best armed and reliable men at the front, who generally approached the houses
as fast as their horses could run for the double purpose of preventing escapes and striking
terror. His force continued to increase until they numbered sixty, all armed with guns, axes,
swords, and clubs, and mounted. This line of attack was kept up until late Monday afternoon,
when they reached a point, about three miles distant from Jerusalem, the county seat, where
Nat Turner reluctantly yielded to a halt while some of his forces went in search of reenforcements.
He was eager to push on to the county seat as speedily as possible and capture it. This delay
proved the turning point in the enterprise.

Impatient at the delay of his men who had turned aside, Turner started to the mansion house
whither they had gone and on their return to the wood found a party of white men who had pursued
the bloody path of the insurrectionists and disposed of the guard of eight men whom Turner
had left at the roadside. The white men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain
Alexander P. Peete. They had been directed to reserve their fire until within thirty paces,
but one of their number fired on the insurgents when within about one hundred yards. Half of
the whites beat a precipitate retreat when Nat Turner ordered his men to fire and rush on them.
The few remaining white men stood their ground until Turner approached within fifty yards,
when they too followed the example of their comrades, fired and retreated with several wounded.
Turner pursued and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter was only prevented by
the timely arrival of a party of whites approaching in another direction from Jerusalem.

Being baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to cross the Nottaway river
at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem where he expected to procure additional arms and
ammunition from the rear. After trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to
Jerusalem, the insurgents turned back toward his rendezvous and reached Major Thomas Ridley's,
where forty assembled. He placed out sentinels and lay down to sleep, but there was to be no
sleep that night. An attack on his forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which ensued left
him with one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his forces, was proceeding in his effort
to rally new adherents when the firing of a gun by Hark was the signal for a fire in ambush
and a retreat followed. After this Turner never saw many of his men any more. They had killed
fifty-five whites but the tide had turned. Turner concealed himself in the woods but was not
dismayed, for by messenger he directed his forces to rally at the point from which on the previous
Sunday they had started out on their bloody work; but the discovery of white men riding around
the place as though they were looking for some one in hiding convinced him that he had been
betrayed.

A reign of terror followed in Virginia.[5] Labor was paralyzed, plantations abandoned, women
and children were driven from home and crowded into nooks and corners. The sufferings of many
of these refugees who spent night after night in the woods were intense. Retaliation began.
In a little more than one day 120 Negroes were killed. The newspapers of the times contained
from day to day indignant protests against the cruelties perpetrated. One individual boasted
that he himself had killed between ten and fifteen Negroes. Volunteer whites rode in all directions
visiting plantations. Negroes were tortured to death, burned, maimed and subjected to nameless
atrocities. Slaves who were distrusted were pointed out and if they endeavored to escape, they
were ruthlessly shot down.[6]

A few individual instances will show the nature and extent of this vengeance. There occurred
other instances which strikingly remind one of scenes before the Civil War and during reconstruction.
He took passage in the stage coach, but the vehicle was intercepted. He then fled to a friend's
home but the house was broken open and he was dragged forth. The civil authorities informed
of the affair refused to interfere. The Governor of the commonwealth quickly called into service
whatever forces were at his command. The lack of adequate munitions of war being apparent,
Commodore Warrington, in command of the Navy Yard in Gosport, was induced to distribute a portion
of the public arms under his control. For this purpose the government ordered detachments of
the Light Infantry from the seventh and fifty-fourth Regiments and from the fourth Regiment
of cavalry and also from the fourth Light Artillery to take the field under Brigadier General
Eppes. Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were also called into service under General
William H. Brodnax and continued in the field until the danger had passed. Further aid was
afforded by Commodore Eliott of the United States Navy by order of whom a detachment of sailors
from the Natchez was secured and assistance also from Colonel House, the commanding officer
at Fortress Monroe, who promptly detached a part of his force to take the field under Lieutenant
Colonel Worth.[10] The revolt was subdued, however, before these troops could be placed in
action and about all they accomplished thereafter was the terrifying of Negroes who had taken
no part in the insurrection and the immolation of others who were suspected.

Sixty-one white persons were killed. Not a Negro was slain in any of the encounters led by
Turner. Fifty-three Negroes were apprehended and arraigned. Seventeen of the insurrectionists
were convicted, and executed, twelve convicted and transported, ten acquitted, seven discharged
and four sent on to the Superior Court. Four of those convicted and transported were boys.
There were brought to trial only four free Negroes, one of whom was discharged and three held
for subsequent trial were finally executed. It is said that they were given decent burial.[11]

The news of the Southampton insurrection thrilled the whole country, North as well as South.
The newspapers teemed with the accounts of it.[12] Rumors of similar outbreaks prevailed all
over the State of Virginia and throughout the South. There were rumors to the effect that Nat
Turner was everywhere at the same time. People returned home before twilight, barricaded themselves
in their homes, kept watch during the night, or abandoned their homes for centers where armed
force was adequate to their protection. There were many such false reports as the one that
two maid servants in Dinwiddie County had murdered an old lady and two children. Negroes throughout
the State were suspected, arrested and prosecuted on the least pretext and in some cases murdered
without any cause. Almost any Negro having some of the much advertised characteristics of Nat
Turner was in danger of being run down and torn to pieces for Nat Turner himself.

There came an unusual rumor from North Carolina. It was said that Negro insurgents there had
burnt Wilmington, massacred its inhabitants, and that 2,000 were then marching on Raleigh.
This was not true but there was a plot worked out by twenty-four Negroes who had extended their
operations into Duplin, Sampson, Wayne, New Hanover, and Lenoir Counties. The plot having been
revealed by a free Negro, the militia was called out in time to prevent the carrying out of
these well-laid plans. Raleigh and Fayetteville were put under military defence. Many arrests
were made, several whipped and released and three of the leaders executed. One of these, a
very intelligent Negro preacher named David, was convicted on the testimony of another Negro.[13]

The excitement in other States was not much less than in Virginia and North Carolina. In South
Carolina Governor Hayne issued a proclamation to quiet rumors of similar uprisings. In Macon,
Georgia, the entire population rose at midnight, roused from their beds by rumors of an impending
onslaught. Slaves were arrested and tied to trees in different parts of the State, while captains
of the militia delighted in hacking at them with swords. In Alabama, rumors of a joint conspiracy
of Indians and Negroes found ready credence. At New Orleans the excitement was at such a height
that a report that 1,200 stands of arms were found in a black man's house, was readily believed.[14]

But the people were not satisfied with this flow of blood and passions were not subdued with
these public wreakings. Nat Turner was still at large. He had eluded their constant vigilance
ever since the day of the raid in August. That he was finally captured was more the result
of accident than of design. A dog belonging to some of Nat Turner's acquaintances scented some
meat in the cave and stole it one night while Turner was out. Shortly after, two Negroes, one
the owner of the dog, were hunting with the same animal. The dog barked at Turner who had just
gone out to walk. Thinking himself discovered, Turner begged these men to conceal his whereabouts,
but they, on finding out who it was, precipitately fled. Concluding from this that they would
betray him, Turner left his hiding place, but he was pursued almost incessantly. At one time
he was shot at by one Francis near a fodder stack in a field, but happening to fall at the
moment of the discharge, the contents of the pistol passed through the crown of his hat. The
lines, however, were closing upon Turner. His escape from Francis added new enthusiasm to the
pursuit and Turner's resources as fertile as ever contrived a new hiding place in a sort of
den in the lap of a fallen tree over which he placed fine brush. He protruded his head as if
to reconnoiter about noon, Sunday, October 30, when a Benjamin Phipps, who had that morning
for the first time turned out in pursuit, came suddenly upon him. Phipps not knowing him, demanded:
"Who are you?" He was answered, "I am Nat Turner." Phipps then ordered him to extend his arms
and Turner obeyed, delivering up a sword which was the only weapon he then had.[15]

This was ten weeks after that Sunday in August when they had feasted in the woods and arranged
their plan of attack. At the time of the capture there were at least fifty men out in search
of him, none of whom could have been two miles from the hiding place. The Richmond Enquirer
in giving the first public announcement, said: "Nat displayed no sort of enterprise in his
attempt to escape nor any degree of courage in resisting his captor;" but this journal does
not give him credit for having eluded his pursuers for more than two months or for knowing
that discretion is the better part of valor. Several companies of the State militia and a battalion
of United States marines had joined in the search and failed, yet Nat displayed no enterprise.[16]

His arrest caused much relief. He was taken the next day to Jerusalem, the county seat, and
tried on the fifth of November before a board of magistrates. The indictment against him was
for making insurrection and plotting to take away the lives of divers free white persons on
the twenty-second of August, 1831. On his arraignment Turner pleaded "Not Guilty." The Commonwealth
submitted its case, not on the testimony of any eye witnesses but on the depositions of one
Levi Waller who read Turner's Confession[17] and Colonel Trezevant the committing magistrate
corroborated it by referring to the same confession. Turner introduced no testimony in defense
and his counsel made no argument in his behalf. He was promptly found guilty and sentenced
to be hanged Friday, November 11, 1831, twelve days after his capture. During the examination
Nat evinced great intelligence and much shrewdness of intellect, answering every question clearly
and distinctly and without confusion or prevarication.

An immense throng gathered on the day of execution though few were permitted to see the ceremony.
He exhibited the utmost composure and calm resignation. He was skinned to supply such souvenirs
as purses, his flesh made into grease, and his bones divided as trophies to be handed down
as heirlooms. It is said that there still lives a Virginian who has a piece of his skin which
was tanned, that another Virginian possesses one of his ears and that the skull graces the
collection of a physician in the city of Norfolk.

Considering the situation unusually serious, Governor John Floyd made this the dominant thought
of his message to the legislature that year. More space was devoted to a discussion of this
uprising than to any other single fact mentioned in the message. He was of the opinion that
the spirit of insurrection was not confined to Southampton. The Governor believed that there
were well-drawn plans of treason, insurrection and murder, "designed and matured by unrestrained
fanatics in some of the neighboring States, who found facilities in distributing their views
and plans amongst our population either through the post office or by agents sent for that
purpose throughout our territory." He, therefore, corresponded with the governors of commonwealths
to preserve as far as possible "the good understanding which existed and which ought to be
cherished between the different members of this Union."

The Governor believed that the persons most active in stirring up the revolt were Negro preachers.
"They had acquired," said he, "great ascendency over the minds of their fellows, and infused
all their opinions which had prepared them for the development of the final design. There was
also some reason to believe," thought he, "those preachers have a perfect understanding in
relation to these plans throughout the eastern counties; and have been the channels through
which the inflammatory papers and pamphlets, brought here by the agents and emissaries from
other States, have been circulated amongst our slaves." He considered it a weakness in the
laws of the State that facilities for assembly, to plot, treason, and conspiracy, to revolt
and make insurrection, had been afforded by the lack of legislation to the contrary to prevent
such freedom of movement among the Negroes. He believed, therefore, the public good required
that the Negro preachers be silenced, "because, full of ignorance, they were incapable of inculcating
anything but notions of the wildest superstition, thus preparing fit instruments in the hands
of crafty agitators, to destroy the public tranquility."[18]

He, therefore, recommended as a means against the possible repetition of such sanguinary scenes
the revision of the laws to preserve in due subordination the Negroes of the State. He believed,
moreover, that although this insurrection had been due to the work of slaves, that the free
people of color furnished a much more promising field for the operations of the abolition element
of the North, inasmuch as they had opened to them more enlarged views and urged the achievement
of a higher destiny by means, "for the present less violent, but not differing in the end from
those presented to the slaves." He referred to the free Negroes as "that class of the community,
which our laws have hitherto treated with indulgent kindness," and for whom many instances
of solicitude for their welfare have marked the progress of legislation. If, however, thought
he, the slave who is confined by law to the estate of his master can work such destruction,
how much more easy it would be for the free Negro to afflict the community with a still greater
calamity. The Governor, moreover, referred to the fact that the free people of color had placed
themselves in hostile array against every measure designed to remove them from the State and
raised the question as to whether the last benefit which the State might confer upon them might
not be to appropriate annually a sum of money to aid their removal to other soil.[19]

To show how general the excitement was throughout the State one needs but read in the journal
of the legislature the number of petitions praying that some action be taken to provide for
the safety of the people in the commonwealth.[20] In the Valley and in the extreme western
portion of the State where few slaves were found and where there were still persons who did
not welcome the institution, there were held a number of meetings in which the abolition of
slavery was openly discussed and urged. Such memorials, however, did not constitute the majority
of the petitions requiring action with reference to slavery. More meetings were held in the
eastern counties but opinion there differed so widely that they availed little in working out
a constructive plan. The larger number of these took the form of such an improvement and change
in the black code as to preserve the institution and at the same time secure the safety of
the citizens.[21]

Believing that the free people of color had been or would be the most effective means in the
attack on the institution of slavery, there were more memorials for the removal of this class
of the population than any other petitions bearing on slavery. Among the counties praying for
the removal of the free Negroes, were Amelia, Isle of Wight, York, Nansemond, Frederick, Powhatan,
Fairfax, and Northumberland. Others asked for the removal of the free Negroes[22] and furthermore
the purchase of slaves to be deported. Among the counties praying for such a measure were Fauquier,
Hanover, Washington, Nelson, Loudoun, Prince William, and King William. From Charles City,
Rockbridge, and Caroline Counties came the additional request for a legislation providing for
gradual emancipation. Page, Augusta, Fauquier, and Botetourt, sent memorials praying that steps
be taken to procure an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, investing Congress
with the power to appropriate money for sending beyond the limits of the United States the
free people of color and such of the slaves as might be purchased for the same purpose. This
was almost in keeping with the request from the Henrico and Frederick Colonization Societies
asking the Government to deport the Negroes to Africa. Buckingham County requested that the
colored population be removed from the county and colonized according to the plans set forth
by Thomas Jefferson. The request of the Society of Friends in the county of Charles City for
gradual emancipation, however, caused resentment.[23]

Thinking that it might not be possible to transport all the Negroes of the country very easily,
requests for dealing with the situation as it was, were also in order. As a number of the farmers
had suffered from a loss of sheep by the numerous dogs maintained by slaves and free persons
of color, there came requests praying that the keeping of dogs and hogs by Negroes be made
illegal. Some of these petitions, too, had an economic phase. There came from Culpepper a petition
praying for a passage of the law for the encouragement of white mechanics by prohibiting any
slave, free Negro or mulatto from being bound as an apprentice to learn any trade or art. Charles
City and New Kent complained against the practice of employing slaves and Negroes as millers
and asked that a law penalizing such action be enacted.[24]

The question as to what should be done with the blacks turned out to be the most important
matter brought before the legislature. Three-fourths of the session was devoted to the discussion
of such questions as the removal of the free Negroes and the colonization of such slaves as
masters could be induced to give up. The legislature met on the 5th of December and after going
through the preliminaries of organization listened to the message of the Governor which had
the insurrection as its most prominent feature. When the petitions from the various counties
began to come in, there soon prevailed a motion that so much of the Governor's message as related
to the insurrection of slaves and the removal of the free Negroes be referred to a select committee,
which after prolonged deliberation found it difficult to agree upon a report.

Desiring to protect the interests of slavery, William O. Goode, of Mecklenburg County, moved
on the eleventh of January that the select committee appointed to consider the memorials bearing
on slaves free Negroes and the Southampton massacre be discharged from the consideration of
all petitions, memorials and resolutions, which had for their object the manumission of slaves.
The resolution further declared that it was not expedient to legislate on slavery.[25] Whereupon
Thomas Jefferson Randolph, of Albemarle County, moved to amend this resolution so as to instruct
the committee to inquire into the expediency and to report a bill to submit to the voters of
the State the propriety of providing by law that the children of all female slaves who might
be born in that State on or after the fourth day of July, 1840, should become the property
of the commonwealth, the males at the age of twenty-one years and females at the age of eighteen,
if detained by their owners within the limits of the commonwealth, until they should respectively
arrive at the ages aforesaid. They would then be hired out until the net sum arising therefrom
should be sufficient to defray the expenses of their removal beyond the limits of the United
States.[26]

After several days of heated but fruitless discussion marked by adjournment to calm the troubled
waters, the question assumed a new phase when William H. Brodnax, the chairman of the select
committee, reported the resolution: That it is inexpedient for the present to make any legislative
enactments for the abolition of slavery. Whereupon Mr. William A. Patterson of Chesterfield
County moved to amend this resolution so as to read: That it was expedient to adopt some legislative
enactments for the abolition of slavery.[27] Around Goode's motion, Randolph's substitute and
Preston's amendments centered an exciting debate showing such a wide difference of opinion
that the publicity caused about as much excitement as Nat Turner's insurrection itself. Many
citizens protested against such an open discussion, knowing that slaves able to read might
thereby be induced to rise again.[28] This fear, however, did not serve very well as a restraining
factor.

The warning sounded by some of these people is significant. The Richmond Enquirer the chief
organ of thought in the State expressed in a strong editorial that the evils of slavery were
alarming and urged that some definite action be taken immediately since the policy of deferring
the solution of the problem for future generations had brought the commonwealth to grief.[29]
Certain ladies from Fluvanna County said in their memorial: "We cannot conceal from ourselves
that an evil is among us, which threatens to outgrow the growth and eclipse the brightness
of our national blessings."[30] Brodnax deplored the fact that the time had come in Virginia
"When men were found to lock their doors and open them in the morning to receive their servants
to light their fires, with pistols in their hands."[31]

A summary of this debate shows that a few members of the legislature desired instant abolition,
a much larger number, probably a majority of the body, wanted to work out some scheme for gradual
emancipation, and others feeling that the slaves could be controlled by severe laws, endeavored
to restrict the effort to the removal of the free people of color. Certain citizens of Hanover
desired to lay a tax on slaves and free Negroes to raise funds to deport them all.[32] The
unfortunate development, however, was that no one knew exactly what he wanted, no one came
to the legislature with a well-matured plan to remedy the evils, and every man seemed to be
governed in his action by his local interests rather than those of the commonwealth.

The Preston amendment was, after an exciting discussion, finally defeated on the 25th of January
by a vote of 58 to 73. Thereupon on motion of Mr. Archibald Bryce, of Goochland County, the
legislature amended the report of the select committee by inserting the following: "Profoundly
sensible of the great evils arising from the condition of the colored population of this commonwealth
induced by humanity, as well as by policy to an immediate effort for the removal in the first
place, as well of those who are now free, as of such as may hereafter become free: believing
that this effort, while it is in just accordance with the sentiment of the community on the
subject, will absorb all our present means, and that a further action for the removal of the
slaves should await a more definite development of public opinion.[33]

This resolution aptly describes the situation resulting after the prolonged discussion. A majority
of the members believed that slavery was an evil, but no one was willing to pay the cost of
exterminating it. It was easily shown that because of unprofitable slave labor the commonwealth
was lagging behind the free States and that the free labor essential to the rebuilding of the
waste places in the State would never come to the commonwealth as long as there would be competition
with slave labor. It was soon apparent, however, that a State with such a diversity of interests,
one-half slave and one-half free could not legislate on slavery. This compromising resolution
of procrastination, therefore, was adopted as the best Virginia could under the circumstances
be induced to do for the extermination[34] of its worst evil.

The debate proved to be valuable to the abolitionists. In the course of his remarks Mr. Brodnax
declared that the confidence of the people seemed to be gone. "Under such circumstances life
becomes a burthen and it is better to seek a home in some distant realm and leave the graves
of our fathers than endure so precarious a condition." It was evident, he thought, that something
must be done; and although measures for the removal of this evil might not, perhaps be arrived
at immediately yet some plan for its gradual eradication would probably be hit upon. A system
might be concocted by degrees to embrace the whole subject and it was therefore necessary to
consider it in all its bearings.[35]

Mr. Chandler said that he in common with his constituents looked forward to the passage of
a law for the removal of the free blacks. He was also in favor of the consideration of any
plan which might remove entirely at some future time, the greatest curse that had ever been
inflicted upon this State. He would look upon the day on which the deliverance of the commonwealth
from the burden of slavery should be accomplished as the most glorious in the annals of Virginia
since the fourth of July, 1776.[36] Mr. Moore did not wish to entangle the committee on the
subject of getting rid of the free black population of this State. That population, he knew,
was a nuisance which the interests of the people required to remove, but there was another
and a greater nuisance, slavery itself. He wished that it should be considered and if it were
possible to devise any plan for the ultimate extinction of slavery, he would rejoice.[37]

Mr. Bolling rose in his remarks to a height of moral sublimity. "We talk of freedom," said
he, "while slavery exists in this land; and speak with horror of the tyranny of the Turk. We
foster an evil which the highest interests of the community require should be removed, which
was denounced as the bans of our happiness by the Father of the Commonwealth and to which we
trace the cause of the lamentable depression of Eastern Virginia. Every intelligent individual
admits that slavery is the most pernicious evil with which a body politic can be afflicted."[38]

Mr. Randolph, the grandson of Thomas Jefferson, said that it was the dark, the appalling, the
despairing future that had awakened the public mind rather than the Southampton Insurrection.
He asked whether silence would restore the death-like apathy of the Negro's mind. It might
be wise to let it sleep in its torpor; "but has not," he asked, "its dark chaos been illumined?
Does it not move, and feel and think? The hour of the eradication of the evil is advancing,
it must come. Whether it is affected by the energy of our minds or by the bloody scenes of
Southampton and San Domingo is a tale for future history."[39] Mr. Faulkner addressed the House
in favor of the gradual extinction of slavery, concluding with these words: "Tax our lands,
vilify our country, carry the sword of extermination through our defenceless villages but spare
us the curse of slavery, that bitterest drop from the chalice of the destroying angel."[40]

Mr. MacDowell, referring to the insurrection, thus described its terror and its awful lesson:
"It drove families from their homes, assembled women and children in crowds in every condition
of weakness and infirmity, and every suffering that want and terror could inflict, to escape
the terrible dread of domestic assassination. Many who were unwilling to legislate with reference
to slavery did not object to the proposal to remove the free Negroes from the State. Yet there
were others who looked upon this as a political by-play. The Southampton Insurrection was not
the work of free Negroes but that of slaves. Only two of the many free Negroes in Southampton
county took a part in the insurrection and these two had slave wives. The North Carolina plot,
moreover, was revealed by a free Negro. After prolonged discussion the matter was again tabled
with a view to future consideration. The feeling of the majority seemed to be that, if the
Negroes were removed, no coercion should be employed except in the case of those who remained
in the State contrary to the law of 1806.[47] $35,000 for 1832 and $90,000 for 1833 was to
be appropriated for transportation. A central board consisting of the governor, treasurer,
and members of the Council of State was to decide the place to which these Negroes were to
be expatriated and the agents to carry out the law would also be named by the same board.[48]
The bill for the removal of free Negroes was indefinitely postponed in the Senate by a vote
of 18 to 14 and therefore was never taken up.

The next effort of the legislature in dealing with the Negroes was to strengthen the black
code as it then existed so as to provide for a more adequate supervision and rigid control
of the slaves and free people of color. There was offered thereafter a bill to amend an act
entitled "an act to revise under one the several acts concerning slaves, free Negroes and mulattoes."
The important provisions of the bill were that slaves and free Negroes should not conduct religious
exercises nor attend meetings held at night by white preachers unless granted written permission
by their masters or overseers. Thereafter no free Negro should be capable of purchase or otherwise
acquiring permanent ownership, except by descent, of any slave, other than his or her husband,
wife or children. Further penalties, moreover, were provided for persons writing or printing
anything intended to incite the Negroes to insurrection. The State had already enacted a law
prohibiting the teaching of slaves, free Negroes and mulattoes.[49] The other petitions requiring
that Negroes be restricted in the higher pursuits of labor and in the ownership of hogs and
dogs were, because of the spirit which existed after the excitement had subsided, rejected
as unnecessary. The law providing for burning in the hand was repealed. The immigration of
free Negroes into the State, however, was prohibited in 1834.[50]

The effect of this insurrection and this debate extended far beyond the borders of Virginia
and the South. Governor McArthur of Ohio in a message to his legislature called special attention
to the outbreak and the necessity for prohibitive legislation against the influx within that
commonwealth of the free people of color who naturally sought an asylum in the free States.
The effect in Southern States was far more significant. Many of them already had sufficient
regulations to meet such emergencies as that of an insurrection but others found it necessary
to revise their black codes.

Maryland passed, at the session of its legislature in 1831-1832, a law providing a board of
managers to use a fund appropriated for the purpose of removing the free people of color to
Liberia in connection with the State colonization society.[51] Another act forbade the introduction
of slaves either for sale or resident and the immigration of free Negroes. It imposed many
disabilities on the resident free people of color so as to force them to emigrate.[52] Delaware,
which had by its constitution of 1831, restricted the right of franchise to whites[53] enacted
in 1832 an act preventing the use of firearms by free Negroes and provided also for the enforcement
of the law of 1811 against the immigration of free Negroes and mulattoes, prohibited meetings
of blacks after ten o'clock and forbade non-resident blacks to preach.[54]

In 1831 Tennessee forbade free persons of color to immigrate into that State under the penalty
of fine for remaining and imprisonment in default of payment. Persons emancipating slaves had
to give bond for their removal to some point outside of the State[55] and additional penalties
were provided for slaves found assembling or engaged in conspiracy. Georgia enacted a measure
to the effect that none might give credit to free persons of color without order from their
guardian required by law and, if insolvent, they might be bound out. It further provided that
neither free Negroes nor slaves might preach or exhort an assembly of more than seven unless
licensed by justices on certificate of three ordained ministers. They were also forbidden to
carry firearms.[56] North Carolina, in which Negroes voted until 1834, enacted in 1831 a special
law prohibiting free Negroes from preaching and slaves from keeping house or going at large
as free men. To collect fines of free Negroes the law authorized that they might be sold.[57]
The new constitution of the State in 1835 restricted the right of suffrage to white men. South
Carolina passed in 1836 a law prohibiting the teaching of slaves to read and write under penalties,
forbidding too the employment of a person of color as salesman in any house, store or shop
used for trading. Mississippi had already met most of these requirements in the slave code
in the year 1830.[58]

In Louisiana it was deemed necessary to strengthen the slave code. An act relative to the introduction
of slaves provided that slaves should not be introduced except by persons immigrating to reside
and citizens who might become owners.[59] Previous legislation had already provided severe
penalties for persons teaching Negroes to read and write and also had made provision for compelling
free colored persons to leave the State.[60] In 1832 the State of Alabama enacted a law making
it unlawful for any free person of color to settle within that commonwealth. Slaves or free
persons of color should not be taught to spell, read or write. It provided penalties for Negroes
writing passes and for free blacks associating or trading with slaves. More than five male
slaves were declared an unlawful assembly but slaves could attend worship conducted by whites
yet neither slaves nor free Negroes were permitted to preach unless before five respectable
slaveholders and the Negroes so preaching were to be licensed by some neighboring religious
society. It was provided, however, that these sections of the article did not apply to or affect
any free person of color who, by the treaty between the United States and Spain, became citizens
of the United States.[61]

So many ills of the Negro followed, therefore, that one is inclined to question the wisdom
of the insurgent leader. Whether Nat Turner hastened or postponed the day of the abolition
of slavery, however, is a question that admits of little or much discussion in accordance with
opinions concerning the law of necessity and free will in national life. Considered in the
light of its immediate effect upon its participants, it was a failure, an egregious failure,
a wanton crime. Considered in its necessary relation to slavery and as contributory to making
it a national issue by the deepening and stirring of the then weak local forces, that finally
led to the Emancipation Proclamation and the Thirteenth Amendment, the insurrection was a moral
success and Nat Turner deserves to be ranked with the greatest reformers of his day.

This insurrection may be considered an effort of the Negro to help himself rather than depend
on other human agencies for the protection which could come through his own strong arm; for
the spirit of Nat Turner never was completely quelled. He struck ruthlessly, mercilessly, it
may be said, in cold blood, innocent women and children; but the system of which he was the
victim had less mercy in subjecting his race to the horrors of the "middle passages" and the
endless crimes against justice, humanity and virtue, then perpetrated throughout America. The
brutality of his onslaught was a reflex of slavery, the object lesson which he gave brought
the question home to every fireside until public conscience, once callous, became quickened
and slavery was doomed.

                                             JOHN W. CROMWELL

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Nat Turner was a familiar name in the household in which the author was reared, as his
home was within fifty miles of the place of Turner's exploits. In 1871, the last term of the
author's service as a teacher in the public schools of Virginia, was spent in this same county,
with a people, many of whom personally knew Nat Turner and his comrades.

Nat Turner was born October 2, 1800, the slave of Benjamin Turner. His father, a native of
Africa, escaped from slavery and finally emigrated to Liberia, where, it is said, his grave
is quite as well known as that of Franklin's, Jefferson's or Adams's is to the patriotic American.
There is now living in the city of Baltimore a man who on good authority claims to be the grandson
of Nat Turner and a son of his was said to be still living in Southampton County, Virginia,
in 1896.

In his early years Turner had a presentiment which largely influenced his subsequent life and
confirmed him in the belief that he was destined to play an unusual rôle in history. That prenatal
influence gave him a marked individuality is readily believed when the date of his birth is
recalled, the period when the excitement over the discovery of Gabriel Prosser's plot was at
its height. Nat's mind was very restless and active, inquisitive and observant. He learned
to read and write with no apparent difficulty. This ability gave him opportunity to confirm
impressions as to knowledge of subjects in which he had received no instruction. When not working
for his master, he was engaged in prayer or in making sundry experiments. By intuition he,
in a rude way, manufactured paper, gunpowder, pottery and other articles in common use. This
knowledge which he claimed to possess was tested by actual demonstration during the trial for
his life. His superior skill in planning was universally admitted by his fellow workmen. He
did not, however, attribute this superior influence to sorcery, conjuration or such like agencies,
for he had the utmost contempt for these delusions.

[2] T. W. Higginson's Travellers and Outlaws, p. 284.

[3] Nat Turner's Confessions.

[4] Drewry, The Southampton Insurrection, pp. 35-74.

[5] The Richmond Enquirer, Aug. 30, Sept. 4, 6 and 20, 1831.

[6] Based on statements made to the author by contemporaries of Nat Turner.

[7] Higginson, Travellers and Outlaws, p. 300.

[8] The statement of Rev. M.B. Cox, a Liberian Missionary, then in Virginia.

[9] Higginson, Travellers and Outlaws, 302-303.

[10] Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, p. 9.

[11] Drewry, The Southampton Insurrection, 102.

[12] The Richmond Enquirer, August 30 and September and October, 1831.

[13] The Richmond Enquirer, Sept. 4, 1831.

[14] Higginson, Travellers and Outlaws, 303.

[15] The Richmond Enquirer, Nov. 4 and 8, 1831.

[16] The Richmond Enquirer, Nov. 4, 1831.

[17] The trial and execution over, the Confessions of Nat were published in pamphlet form and
had a wide sale. An accurate likeness by John Crawley, a former artist of Norfolk at that time,
lithographed by Endicott and Sweet of Baltimore, accompanied the edition which was printed
for T. R. Gray, Turner's attorney. Fully 50,000 copies of this pamphlet are said to have been
sold within a few weeks of its publication, yet today they are exceedingly rare, not a copy
being found either in the State Library at Richmond, the Public Library at Boston nor the Congressional
Library at Washington. These Confessions purport to give from Turner's own lips circumstances
of his life. "Portions of it," says The Richmond Enquirer, "are eloquent and even classically
expressed; but," continues the critic, more than sixty miles away, "the language is far superior
to what Nat Turner could have employed, thereby giving him a character for intelligence which
he does not deserve and should not receive." On the contrary, however, Mr. Gray, his attorney
and confessor who did not write from long range, said: "As to his ignorance, he certainly had
not the advantages of education, but he can read and write and for natural intelligence and
quickness of apprehension is surpassed by few men I have ever seen.

[18] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, pp. 9 and 10.

[19] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, p. 10. Our daughters and their daughters
are destined to become, in their turn, the tender fosterers of helpless infancy, the directors
of developing childhood, and the companions of those citizens, who will occupy the legislative
and executive offices of their country. Can we calmly anticipate the condition of the Southern
States at that period, should no remedy be devised to arrest the progressive miseries attendant
on slavery? Will the absent father's heart be at peace, when, amid the hurry of public affairs,
his truant thoughts return to the home of his affection, surrounded by doubtful, if not dangerous,
subjects to precarious authority? Perhaps when deeply engaged in his legislative duties his
heart may quail and his tongue falter with irresistible apprehension for the peace and safety
of objects dearer than life.

"We can only aid the mighty task by ardent outpourings of the spirit of supplication at the
Throne of Grace. We will call upon the God, in whom we trust, to direct your counsels by His
unerring wisdom, guide you with His effectual spirit. We now conjure you by the sacred charities
of kindred, by the solemn obligations of justice, by every consideration of domestic affection
and patriotic duty, to nerve every faculty of your minds to the investigation of this important
subject, and let not the united voices of your mothers, wives, daughters and kindred have sounded
in vain in your ears."--Drewry, The Southampton Insurrection, p. 165.

[21] Drewry, The Southampton Insurrection, pp. 1-100.

[22] October 18. This memorial circulated in Petersburg and in adjoining towns and counties
is typical:

"The undersigned good citizens of the County of ........ invite the attention of your honorable
body to a subject deemed by them of primary importance to their present welfare and future
security.

"The mistaken humanity of the people of Virginia, and of our predecessors, has permitted to
remain in this Commonwealth a class of people who are neither freemen nor slaves. The mark
set on them by nature precludes their enjoyment in this country, of the privileges of the former;
and the laws of the land do not allow them to be reduced to the condition of the latter. Hence
they are of necessity degraded, profligate, vicious, turbulent and discontented.

"More frequent than whites (probably in tenfold proportion) sustained by the charitable provisions
of our laws, they are altogether a burden on the community. Pursuing no course of regular business,
and negligent of everything like economy and husbandry, they are as a part of the community,
supported by the productive industry of others.

"But their residence among us is yet more objectionable on other accounts. It is incompatible
with the tranquility of society; their apparent exemption from want and care and servitude
to business, excites impracticable hopes in the minds of those who are even more ignorant and
unreflecting--and their locomotive habits fit them for a dangerous agency in schemes, wild
and visionary, but disgusting and annoying.

"We would not be cruel and unchristian--but we must take care of the interests and morals of
society, and of the peace of mind of the helpless in our families. It is indispensable to the
happiness of the latter, that this cause of apprehension be removed. And efforts to this end
are, we firmly believe, sanctioned by enlightened humanity toward the ill-fated class to whom
we allude. They can never have the respect and intercourse here which are essential to rational
happiness, and social enjoyment and improvement. But in other lands they may become an orderly,
sober, industrious, moral, enlightened and christian community; and be the happy instruments
of planting and diffusing those blessings over a barbarous and benighted continent.

"Your petitioners will not designate a plan of legislative operation--they leave to the wisdom
and provident forecast of the General Assembly, the conception and the prosecution of the best
practicable scheme--but they would respectfully and earnestly ask that the action of the laws
passed to this effect be decisive, and the means energetic--such as shall, with as much speed
as may be, free our country from this bane of its prosperity, morality and peace."--The Richmond
Enquirer, Oct. 21, 1831.

[23] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, pp. 1-123.

[24] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, pp. 41, 56, 119.

[25] Ibid., 1831, p. 93.

[26] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, p. 93.

[27] Ibid., p. 93.

[28] Ibid., p. 125.

[29] The Richmond Enquirer, Jan. 7, 1832.

[30] Drewry, The Southampton Insurrection, p. 165.

[31] The Richmond Enquirer, Dec. 17, 1831.

[32] Ibid., Nov. 18, 1831.

[33] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, p. 110.

[34] Before the insurrection free men of color voted in North Carolina and at least one well-authenticated
case exists of a colored voter in Virginia prior to 1830. A native of Virginia long a resident
of Massachusetts is an authority for the statement that the facilities for higher education
of the Negro were quite as good in Richmond as in Boston at that time. There was published
in a paper of the time an account of the celebration of the anniversary of the Declaration
of Independence, July 4, 1827, by the free people of color of the city of Fredericksburg, Virginia.
The orator of the day was Isaac N. Carey.

In North Carolina John Chavis, a Negro, rose to such excellence as a teacher of white youth
that he is pronounced in a biographical sketch, contained in a history of education in that
State, published by the United States Bureau of Education, as one of the most eminent men produced
by that State. Though an unmistakable Negro, as a preacher he acceptably filled many a white
pulpit and was welcomed as a social guest at many a fireside. Such was the bitterness against
the race growing out of Nat Turner's Insurrection, however, that even such a man fell under
the ban of proscription.

One of the preachers to whom Governor Floyd had reference quietly ignored the suggestion in
the message of his Excellency and kept up his work. He was a Baptist preacher, William Carney,
the grandfather of the famous Sergeant William H. Carney, of the 54th Massachusetts Regiment.
At the same time a daughter of his and a Methodist in a neighboring town "bearded the lion
in his den" by actually collaring and driving out the leader of a party of white men who broke
into a Negro religious meeting.

[35] The Richmond Enquirer, Jan. 11, 1839.

[36] Ibid., Jan. 11, 1839.

[37] Ibid., Jan. 19, 1832.

[38] Ibid., Jan. 24, 1832.

[39] The Richmond Enquirer, Jan. 25, 1832.

[40] Ibid., Jan. 26, 1832.

[41] The Richmond Enquirer, Jan. 27, 1832.

[42] Ibid., Nov. 18, 1831.

[43] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, p. 10.

[44] Ibid., p. 112.

[45] Ibid., 1831, p. 125.

[46] Ibid., 1831, p. 131.

[47] The Richmond Enquirer, Jan. and Feb., 1832.

[48] The Journal of the House of Delegates, 1831, Appendix, Bill No. 7.

[49] Ibid., Bill No. 13.

[50] Hurd, Law of Freedom and Bondage, II, 9.

[51] The Laws of Maryland, 1831-32, c. 281.

[52] Ibid., c. 328.

[53] See Article IV, Sec. 1.

[54] Revised Code of Maryland, Chap. 52 and 237.7

[55] The Laws of Tenn., 1831, Chaps. 102 and 103.

[56] Cobb's Digest of the Laws of Georgia, 1005.

[57] Revised Statutes of North Carolina, c. 109 and 111.

[58] Hurd, Law of Freedom and Bondage, II, 146.

[59] Ibid., II, 162.

[60] Laws of Louisiana, 1830, p. 90, Sec. 1.

[61] Annual Laws of Alabama, 1832, p. 12.

DOCUMENTS

The publication of the list of names of Negroes who served in some of the Reconstruction conventions
and legislatures elicited a number of comments which furnish desirable information. It is earnestly
hoped that any one in a position to supply other missing information will follow the example
of our friends whose correspondence we give below.

                                             February 24th, 1920.

     MR. CARTER G. WOODSON,
       1216 You St., N.W.,
         Washington, D.C.

     Sir:

     In the Journal of Negro History for Jan., 1920, in giving the
     names of Negroes who were members of the reconstruction
     convention to frame a constitution for North Carolina in 1867-68,
     you omit Cumberland county. Permit me to say that the late Bishop
     James W. Hood represented that county and played a most prominent
     part and afterward became Ass't Superintendent of Public
     Instruction of the State. I was a boy at the time but I remember
     it. That you may know that I am not an adventurer, I enclose you
     a sketch of myself which was prepared by request for other
     purposes and show that I speak somewhat from authority. You will
     kindly return the same. At the same time you are at liberty to
     use any part of it that may suit your purpose should you so
     desire.

     With very great respect, I am

                              Respectfully,
                                     (Signed) GEO. C. SCURLOCK

The sketch of this participant in the Reconstruction follows:

     Mr. George C. Scurlock, from the year 1874 was a prominent figure
     in the Republican party in North Carolina. In the year above
     stated, when he had barely reached his majority, he was nominated
     for member of the Board of Education, at a time when all the
     schools, white and colored, were under the same board. His
     opponent was one of the most prominent Democrats in the city and
     a majority of the electorate was white. So popular was Mr.
     Scurlock that he defeated his Democratic opponent at the polls by
     a handsome majority and served out his term to the satisfaction
     of his constituents.

     In 1876 he was a delegate to the State Convention that nominated
     the late Judge Settle for Governor and canvassed the State for
     him. He was again a delegate to the State Convention in each
     succeeding four years up to and including the year 1896. In the
     latter year he headed the delegation. In the campaign of that
     year, at the request of the State Executive Committee, he
     canvassed 21 counties in the State for McKinley and Hobart, all
     of which were carried for the Republican ticket. So pleased was
     the Committee with the canvass he was making, he was highly
     commended in letters from the Chairman while still canvassing.

     In 1890 he was urged by leading Republicans of his district,
     including such men as ex-Governor Brogden, to become the
     Republican candidate for Congress. Long before the convention
     convened it was evident that he was the strongest man in the
     field. When the convention met and was organized, ex-Governor
     Brogden took the platform and in a ringing speech paying a high
     tribute to the subject of this sketch, placed him in nomination.
     Before the end of the roll call of counties his nomination was
     made unanimous. In his canvass for election he had the hearty
     support of the State organization and many of the leading colored
     and white Republicans in and without his district and State. In
     1892 he was unanimously chosen as a delegate to the Republican
     National Convention, which met in Minneapolis.

     As far back as 1883 he was appointed a clerk in one of the
     Departments at Washington by Secretary Teller. He held this
     position until under a Democratic administration he was for
     partisan reasons asked to resign. President Harrison, recognizing
     his ability, appointed him Postmaster of his city, Fayetteville.

     For more than 20 years he was a leader in the party and so
     recognized by the late Judge Buxton and such men as the late
     ex-Congressman O. H. Dockery, and Judges Boyd and Pritchard, now
     on the bench. Outside his State his ability as an organizer and
     canvasser was recognized by Hon. J.S. Clarkson and the late
     William E. Chandler and M.S. Quay.

In a letter of April 8, 1919, Bishop N.H. Heard says:

     I was born and raised in Elbert County, Georgia (born a slave),
     June 25th, 1850. I taught school in '69, 70, '71, and '72. Was a
     candidate for the Legislature of Georgia in 1872. Attorney
     General Amos J. Ackerman, of Grant's Cabinet, was in the
     convention that nominated me, and he canvassed and voted for me.
     In 1873 I went to Abbeville County, S.C., and taught '73, '74,
     and '75. Was Deputy U.S. Marshall in 1876 and elected to the
     South Carolina Legislature.

Mr. M.N. Work has discovered the following:

     In the ten years 1876-1886, Negroes were elected to the South
     Carolina Legislature as Democrats. The Columbia (South Carolina)
     State in its issue of December 24, 1918, advised that an effort
     be made to have Negroes enroll in Democratic precinct clubs and
     participate in the primaries of the State along with white men.
     As a precedent for this, it was pointed out that: "In 1876 when
     the Democrats redeemed the State from misrule, they appealed to
     the Negroes to join their party, and a minority of Negroes, more
     numerous, perhaps than is generally supposed, wore the 'red
     shirt.' Many of them did valuable service in behalf of
     respectable government. During the ten years following that time,
     until the primary election took the place of the convention
     system in all but two or three of the counties, the Democratic
     Negroes were given political recognition. From Barnwell,
     Colleton, Orangeburg, and Charleston Negro Democrats were elected
     to the legislature and in a number of counties other Negroes were
     elected to such offices as coroner and county commissioner.

     "With the extension of the primary system a racial line came to
     be drawn in the Democratic organization and it was made very
     nearly impossible for a Negro to participate in it. An exception
     in the party law provided that Negroes who voted for General
     Hampton in 1876 and who continued to vote the Democratic ticket
     in succeeding years be allowed to vote in the primaries, but the
     rules applying to these cases were in a form so rigid that they
     reduced the Negro Democratic vote."[1]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Columbia State, December 24, 1918.

A SUMMARY OF NEGRO MEMBERS OF SOME RECONSTRUCTION LEGISLATURES

  =============+==============+==============+==============+
               |   1868-69    |   1870-71    |   1871-72    |
               +--------------+--------------+--------------+
               |Whites|Negroes|Whites|Negroes|Whites|Negroes|
  -------------+------+-------+------+-------+------+-------+
  Alabama      |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  32  |   1   |  29  |   4   |  29  |   4   |
    House      |  74  |  26   |  73  |  27   |  86  |  14   |
  Arkansas     |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  23  |   1   |  22  |   2   |  ..  |  ..   |
    House      |  73  |   7   |  71  |   9   |  ..  |  ..   |
  Georgia      |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  41  |   3   |  42  |   2   |  ..  |  ..   |
    House      | 145  |  30   | 149  |  26   |  ..  |  ..   |
  Mississippi  |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  ..  |  ..   |  29  |   4   |  ..  |  ..   |
    House      |  ..  |  ..   |  77  |  30   |  76  |  39   |
  N. Carolina  |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  47  |   3   |  47  |   9   |  45  |   5   |
    House      | 102  |  18   | 101  |   1   | 108  |  12   |
  S. Carolina  |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  24  |   9   |  22  |  11   |  ..  |  ..   |
    House      |  48  |  76   |  49  |  75   |  ..  |  ..   |
  Texas        |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  ..  |  ..   |  28  |   2   |  ..  |  ..   |
    House      |  ..  |  ..   |  82  |   8   |  ..  |  ..   |
  Virginia     |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |       |  ..  |  ..   |
    House      | 119  |  18   | 116  |  21   |  ..  |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |
    House      |  71  |   9   |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |
  Georgia      |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |      |  ..   |
    House      |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |      |  ..   |
  Mississippi  |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  28  |   9   |  ..  |  ..   |  32  |   5   |
    House      |  60  |  55   |  ..  |  ..   | 100  |  16   |
  N. Carolina  |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  46  |   4   |  46  |   4   |  ..  |       |
    House      | 107  |  13   | 107  |  13   | 113  |   7   |
  S. Carolina  |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |      |  ..   |
    House      |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |  70  |  54   |
  Texas        |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |      |  ..   |
    House      |  ..  |  ..   |  ..  |  ..   |      |  ..   |
  Virginia     |      |       |      |       |      |       |
    Senate     |  37  |   3   |  37  |   3   |  37  |   3   |
    House      | 115  |  17   | 112  |  17   | 112  |  13   |
  -------------+------+-------+------+-------+------+-------+

There were Negro members of the North Carolina legislature to 1899 and of the Virginia legislature
to 1891 as follows:

          North Carolina                  Virginia
       Senators    Representatives           Senator    Representatives
  1879    2              6         1876-77      3              12
  1881    1              4         1877-78      3               4
  1883    3              5         1878-79      3               4
  1885    2              2         1883-84      3               8
  1887    3              3         1884-85      1               7
  1889                   2         1885-86      1               1
  1891    1                        1886-87      1               1
  1893                   1         1887-88      1               7
  1895                   1         1888-89      1               7
  1897                   1         1889-90      1               4
  1899    1              1         1890-91      1               3

SPEECH OF WILLIAM H. GRAY BEFORE THE ARKANSAS CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION, 1868[1]

William H. Gray, a Negro, and delegate to the convention from Phillips County, rose and spoke
as follows:

     "It appears to me, the gentleman has read the history of his
     country to little purpose. When the Constitution was framed, in
     every State but South Carolina free Negroes were allowed to vote.
     Under British rule this class was free, and he interpreted that
     'we the people' in the preamble of the Constitution, meant all
     the people of every color. The mistake of that period was that
     these free Negroes were not represented in propria persona in
     that constitutional convention, but by the Anglo-Saxon. Congress
     is now correcting that mistake. The right of franchise is due the
     Negroes bought by the blood of forty thousand of their race shed
     in three wars. The troubles now on the country are the result of
     the bad exercise of the elective franchise by unintelligent
     whites, the 'poor whites' of the South. I could duplicate every
     Negro who cannot read and write, whose name is on the list of
     registered voters, with a white man equally ignorant. The
     gentleman can claim to be a friend of the Negro, but I do not
     desire to be looked upon in the light of a client. The Government
     has made a solemn covenant with the Negro to vest him with the
     right of franchise if he would throw his weight in the balance in
     favor of the Union and bare his breast to the storm of bullets;
     and I am convinced that it would not go back on itself. There are
     thirty-two million whites to four million blacks in the country,
     and there need be no fear of Negro domination. The State laws do
     not protect the Negro in his rights, as they forbade their
     entrance into the State. (Action of loyal convention of '64). I
     am not willing to trust the rights of my people with the white
     men, as they have not preserved those of their own race, in
     neglecting to provide them with the means of education. The
     Declaration of Independence declared all men born free and equal,
     and I demand the enforcement of that guarantee made to my
     forefathers, to every one of each race, who had fought for it.
     The constitution which this ordinance would reenact it not
     satisfactory, as it is blurred all over with the word 'white.'
     Under it one hundred and eleven thousand beings who live in the
     State have no rights which white men are bound to respect. My
     people might be ignorant, but I believe, with Jefferson, that
     ignorance is no measure of a man's rights. Slavery has been
     abolished, but it left my people in a condition of peonage or
     caste worse than slavery, which had its humane masters. White
     people should look to their own ancestry; they should recollect
     that women were disposed of on the James River, in the early
     settlement of the country, as wives, at the price of two hundred
     pounds of tobacco. When we have had eight hundred years as the
     whites to enlighten ourselves, it will be time enough to
     pronounce them incapable of civilization and enlightenment. The
     last election showed that they were intelligent enough to vote in
     a solid mass with the party that would give them their rights,
     and that too in face of the influence of the intelligence and
     wealth of the State, and in face of threats to take the bread
     from their very mouths. I have no antipathy toward the whites; I
     would drop the curtain of oblivion on the sod which contains the
     bones of my oppressed and wronged ancestors for two hundred and
     fifty years. Give us the franchise, and if we do not exercise it
     properly, you have the numbers to take it away from us. It would
     be impossible for the Negro to get justice in a State whereof he
     was not a full citizen. The prejudice of the entire court would
     be against him. I do not expect the Negro to take possession of
     the government; I want the franchise given him as an incentive to
     work to educate his children. I do not desire to discuss the
     question of the inferiority of races. Unpleasant truths must then
     be told; history tells us of your white ancestors who lived on
     the acorns which dropped from the oaks of Didona, and then
     worshipped the tree as a God. I call upon all men who would see
     justice done, to meet this question fairly, and fear not to
     record their votes."

In the session of January 29th, he said:

     "Negroes vote in Ohio and Massachusetts, and in the latter State
     are elected to high office by rich men. He had found more
     prejudice against his race among the Yankees; and if they did him
     a kind act, they did not seem to do it with the generous spirit
     of Southern men. He could get nearer the latter; he had been
     raised with them. He was the sorrier on this account that they
     had refused him the rights which would make him a man, as the
     former were willing to do. He wanted this a white man's
     government, and wanted them to do the legislating as they had the
     intelligence and wealth; but he wanted the power to protect
     himself against unfriendly legislation. Justice should be like
     the Egyptian statue, blind and recognizing no color."

Concerning intermarriage between whites and Negroes, Mr. Bradley, a delegate to the convention,
having offered to insert in the constitution, a clause "forbidding matrimony between a white
person and a person of African descent," on which point nearly all of the members spoke pro
and con in that and the following days, Mr. Gray said:

     "It was seldom such outrages were committed at the North, where
     there are no constitutional provisions of the kind proposed. He
     saw no necessity of inserting any in the present constitution. As
     for his people, their condition now would not permit any such
     marriages. If it was proposed to insert a provision of the kind,
     he would move to amend by making it an offence punishable with
     death for a white man to cohabit with a Negro woman." At another
     time he observed on the same subject, that "there was no danger
     of intermarriage, as the greatest minds had pronounced it
     abhorrent to nature. The provision would not cover the case, as
     the laws must subsequently define who is a Negro; and he referred
     to the law of North Carolina, declaring persons Negroes who have
     only one-sixteenth of Negro blood. White men had created the
     difficulty, and it would not be impossible to draw the line which
     the gentleman desired established."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Annual Cyclopedia, 1868, pp. 34-35.

Mr. Monroe N. Work, who compiled the records of the Negro in politics during the Reconstruction
period, has received the following interesting letters containing some valuable facts:

                 1425 MCCULLOH ST., BALTIMORE, MD., Feb. 9, 1920.

     My dear Mr. Work:

     Referring to the "Journal of Negro History" for Jan., 1920, in
     the letter of the State Librarian of Virginia, page 119, occur
     these words: "For the 1881-2 session the almanac has no list of
     members."

     It so happens that the writer was present, and was an employee of
     that particular session of the Virginia Legislature, and
     therefore takes pleasure in supplying the necessary information.

     The speaker of the House of Representatives was the Hon. I.C.
     Fowler, and the President protem (the Lieutenant Governor, John
     F. Lewis, being President) of the Senate was the Hon. H.C. Wood.
     The Governor of the State at that time was the Hon. William E.
     Cameron, from my home town, Petersburg. It was quite a memorable
     session, and I could almost write a book, with respect to matters
     as they pertained to the Negro. The Hon. William Mahone was
     United States Senator, and although a boy, I was much trusted by
     Senator Mahone; and in many important conferences held in the old
     "Whig" building, I was quite active in helping to prevent none
     but "the faithful" from entering.

     Upon the assembling of the Legislature, I was appointed one of
     the six pages in the House. The other five were white boys. Very
     soon afterwards, I was promoted to the postmastership of the
     House. On the Senate side, there were two colored boys as pages,
     a son of ex-Senator Moseley of Goochland Co., and a son of the
     late R.G.L. Paige, representative from Norfolk county.

     There were three colored men in the Senate Chamber, and two of
     them were really able and scholarly men, and were among the
     leading debaters in that chamber. One was Dr. Dan Norton, from
     the Yorktown District, another was Senator William N. Stevens,
     representing the senatorial district of Sussex and Greensville
     counties. Senator Stevens was a speaker of much elegance and
     grace, and was always listened to with respect and admiration.
     Then there was Senator J. Richard Jones, representing Charlotte
     and Mecklenburg counties.

     In the Lower House, there were thirteen colored representatives;
     the names of two I can not just recall, but the others I will
     mention.

          Norfolk county, R.G.L. Paige.
          Princess Anne county, Littleton Owens.
          York county, Robert Norton.
          City of Petersburg, Armstead Green.
          Dinwiddie county, Alfred W. Harris.
          Powhatan county, Neverson Lewis.
          Brunswick county, Guy Powell.
          Cumberland county, Shed Dungee.
          Prince Edward county, Batt Greggs.
          Amelia and Nottoway, Archie Scott.
          Mecklenburg county, Ross Hamilton.

     Paige and Harris were thoroughly educated men, while Ross
     Hamilton possessing only limited literary qualifications, was a
     most remarkable man, and one of the parliamentary authorities of
     that body. In the preceding session, of which Hamilton was a
     member, he got to himself great fame by the introduction of the
     measure known and referred to as the "Ross Hamilton bill." It
     had to do with the settlement of the Virginia debt, the great
     issue on which Mahone rode into power.

     Paige and Harris were among the principal leaders of the House,
     and certainly, few were the men in that house whether democrats
     or republicans, who could outrank them in oratory or public
     debate.

     Mr. Harris introduced the measure which provided for the present
     state Normal school, at Petersburg, carrying with it an
     appropriation of one hundred thousand dollars. I had the great
     pleasure of bearing the bill to the Speaker's desk.

     During the session of this Legislature two colored men were given
     clerkships at the capitol: young Bob Norton, whose father
     represented York, in that body, was given a place in the General
     Land Office, while Richard De Baptist, of Mecklenburg county, was
     given a desk in the 2nd Auditor's office. A white physician, Dr.
     David F. May, of Petersburg, was made Superintendent of the
     Central Lunatic Asylum, for colored people, his two assistants
     being colored physicians, Dr. J.C. Ferguson, of Richmond, and Dr.
     R.F. Tancil, of Alexandria. A number of colored men were put on
     as guards at the State Penitentiary. Capt. R.A. Paul, of
     Richmond, was made private messenger to the Governor. So numerous
     were the places filled by colored men, that that particular
     period, and the one that followed, have been indicated in the
     phrase, having a political bearing: "When they lived, they lived
     in clover: but, when they died, they died all over."

     Those were thrilling times. I remember, a year or two later, when
     I had just become of age, I was elected a delegate to the State
     Convention, which was held in the old Richmond Theater on Broad
     St. There were over thirteen hundred delegates, only about a
     fifth being colored. The writer was elected the first assistant
     secretary of that gathering. That convention marked the passing
     of the "re-adjuster" party into the Republican, and, under the
     dominance of Senator Mahone, the slogan of the Convention was,
     "We are for Arthur, because Arthur is for us." I hope that what I
     have thus very hurriedly written may prove of some value to you
     in the preservation of the annals of Virginia as respects the
     black man.

                              Respectfully yours,
                                  (Signed) GEORGE FREEMAN BRAGG, JR.

     P.S. I want to correct a statement. There were two of us in the
     Lower House. Clinton Paige, and myself, were in the lower
     chamber, and Moseley on the Senate side. I began my first work of
     the ministry in Norfolk in 1887, and about that time the Hon.
     R.G.L. Paige was appointed Postmaster of Norfolk City. He really
     ran the office. I have spent many a pleasant moment with him in
     his office there. It will be interesting to state just here, that
     "Dick" Paige made his escape from Norfolk by way of the Under
     Ground Railroad, only a little fellow of nine or ten years of
     age, secreting himself in a vessel leaving that port. He was
     educated in Boston. After the civil war he returned to Norfolk.

     Round about the same time that I took charge in Norfolk, John C.
     Asbury, now of Philadelphia, was practising law in Norfolk Co.
     and city. Norfolk county is one of the largest and richest
     counties in the State. Asbury was elected by the voters of that
     county Prosecuting Attorney, and to my own knowledge, he most
     acceptably filled the office during the term of four years, I
     think, for which he was elected. He was recognized as one of the
     able political leaders of that section. Captain Fields was
     elected and served as Commonwealth's Attorney of Newport News and
     Warwick county. Rev. J. M. Dawson was the county treasurer where
     the ancient capital Williamsburg is situated, while a Mr.
     Mitchell, for a number of years was the Collector of Customs for
     the historic port of Yorktown.

                              (Signed) G. F. B., Jr.

     Phone 4512

                      E.W. SHERMAN, Vice President
               Guaranty Mutual Life & Health Insurance Co.
                    774 E. Waldburg St., Savannah, Ga.

                                                    Feb. 8th, 1920.

     PROF. MONROE N. WORK,
       Tuskegee, Ala.

     My dear Mr. Work:

     I have perused with considerable interest your review of the
     political history of the Reconstruction period. I have gotten
     from the review quite a bit of useful information. In my opinion,
     this particular part of your research work should be in the hands
     of every Negro in America that every Negro child might know
     something of the early exploits of colored men.

     As a pointer for further work I want to state that succeeding
     Phil. Joiner of Dougherty County, Georgia, Ishmael London
     represented that county. J.H. Watson of Albany could furnish
     detail information. Jack Horne of Pulaski County was Clerk of the
     Court of Pulaski County and Richard White was Clerk of Chatham
     County Court during the period under discussion. Mrs. Hannah
     Benefield or Mr. Edward Cary of Hawkinsville will give authentic
     information regarding the former and P.A. Denegall will furnish
     information regarding "Dick" White.

     We are pleased to follow you in your statistical ramblings
     because we love to connect you with us here and to recall your
     presence among us. We cherish very deeply your memory and applaud
     your efforts for racial uplift.

     The madam joins me in wishing for you a long and useful career--a
     happy and prosperous one.

                              Respectfully,
                                   (Signed) E. W. SHERMAN.

                                                February 14, 1920.

     MR. J. H. WATSON,
         Albany, Georgia.

     Dear Sir:

     As you may already know, I have been for a considerable time
     collecting information about the colored persons who were members
     of State Legislatures during the reconstruction period. A list of
     these members as far as I have been able to collect them was
     published in the January number of the "Journal of Negro
     History."

     Mr. E.W. Sherman of Savannah, Georgia, after reading my article,
     wrote to me that Phil Joiner, Dougherty County, was succeeded by
     Ishmael London. He stated that you could give me further
     information concerning this. Will you not, as Mr. Sherman
     suggests, send to me the names of all of the colored men whom you
     know to have represented Dougherty County in the Georgia
     Legislature and as near as you can, the date that they were
     members of the Legislature.

     Thanking you in advance for your courtesy and appreciating an
     early reply, I am

                              Yours very truly,
                                       M. N. WORK,
                                   Editor Negro Year Book.

                                          ALBANY, GEORGIA.
                                           February 21, 1920.

     PROF. MONROE WORK,
       Tuskegee Inst.,
         Tuskegee, Ala.
     Dear Sir:--

     Replying to your letter of the 14th inst., I beg to state that I
     cannot give you the dates as I was quite a boy and do not
     remember, but Phil Joiner served one term, was followed by Israel
     London, who served two terms, and who was followed by Howard
     Bunts, who served one term. In Thomas County, Rev. Jack Carter
     was a member, but I do not remember the dates.

                              Yours very truly,
                                       Signed--
                                            J.H. WATSON.

                       CARNEGIE PUBLIC LIBRARY
                      P. A. Denegall, Librarian
                          Savannah, Georgia.

                                             February 24, 1920.

     PROF. MONROE WORK,
         Tuskegee, Alabama.

     Dear Sir:

     I am in receipt of yours of 14th inst., seeking information
     relative to the occupancy of the clerkship of Chatham Superior
     Court, by the late Richard W. White, during reconstruction
     period.

     In reply I beg to say, that at the period, about which you desire
     information, I was too young a boy to have any adequate or
     understanding knowledge of the political affairs or status of
     that period, so that I have no first hand knowledge of the matter
     upon which you desire information. All I know about the late Mr.
     White's clerkship is only what I gleaned in conversation with my
     father, and as he paid no special attention to dates, simply
     telling me of things taking place during reconstruction, I have
     only by that means, knowledge of some things without the dates of
     their occurance.

     I am very sorry I cannot give you the information you desire, I
     should be glad to do so if I could.

     May I add that I have read your article in the January "Journal
     of Negro History" on "Some Negro members of reconstruction
     conventions and legislatures." I note that the name of the late
     Prof. John McIntosh, late principal of Mape St. School of this
     city is omitted from the list of colored members of Georgia
     legislature. He was a member of the Georgia House of
     Representatives, representing Liberty County in the "80's" a few
     years after his graduation from Atlanta University. As far as I
     know he was the most thoroughly educated colored man to have had
     the privilege of being a member of the Georgia Legislature. I
     knew him intimately. We were pupils at Beach Institute, this city
     at the same time, later fellow students at Atlanta University.
     Again regretting that I am not able to give the desired
     information, I am

                              Very truly yours,
                                         Signed--
                                              P. A. DENEGALL.

                                             SAYBROOK, CONN.
                                             February 14, 1920.

     MR. MONROE N. WORK,
       Tuskegee Institute
         Alabama.

     My dear Sir:

     I have read with keen interest the facts presented by you in the
     Journal of Negro History for January 1920 on "Some Negro Members
     of Reconstruction Conventions etc."

     I have known intimately Gen. Samuel Smalls and his family in
     Beaufort, S.C. and Miss Olive Rainey and her mother, daughter and
     wife of Joseph H. Rainey; Miss Mamie Hayne of S.C. daughter of
     Henry E. Hayne.

     One daughter of Gen. Smalls still lives in the paternal home in
     Beaufort, where are the books and personal possessions of her
     distinguished father. She was companion and house-keeper for him
     in his late years; she is doubtless able to furnish much valuable
     information.

     Brothers of Henry E. Hayne still live, though they do not
     identify themselves with the Negro race. The daughter does,
     however, and has friends of her father's generation who could
     help in building up a Hayne's history.

     Among the relatives is the mother of my husband and a large
     family of relatives, the older ones of whom lived thro'
     Reconstruction Days in South Carolina.

     Miss Rainey and her mother live in Springfield, Massachusetts.

     My own family on the maternal side is descended from George
     Houston, member of the Alabama Legislature 1868-70.

     I have long felt that the last opportunity to collect data
     concerning this interesting period in our history, is while this
     present generation lives; the next generation will have no
     interest in it.

     If I can assist you in collecting facts from these people who
     knew intimately the men of whom you write, I should be glad to do
     so.

     I feel that the best way to do this would be for you to send me a
     set of questionnaires which I might send to these friends with
     letters.

     I am trying thro' the Department of Archives and History of
     Alabama and the Congressional Library to locate material which
     will illuminate the life of George Houston.

     If what I have written is of interest to you, then I am glad that
     I have written. And can I be of assistance, I shall be glad to
     make further contribution if possible.

                                 Sincerely,
                                      (Signed) HELEN JAMES CHISHOLM,
     MRS. FRANK P. CHISHOLM.

CORRESPONDENCE

The following letter written primarily to correct certain errors has been productive of much
good in bringing to light a number of facts which the public should know:

         140 COTTAGE STREET, NEW HAVEN, CONN., February 23, 1920.

     DR. CARTER G. WOODSON,
       1216 You Street, Washington.

     My dear Dr. Woodson:

     I find the latest number of your Journal most interesting and
     permanently valuable, like those that have preceded. I think that
     the publication is gaining a position in its particular field
     which promises to make it an accepted authority on historical
     questions. This makes it the more essential for manifest errors
     to be carefully guarded against and eliminated from contributed
     articles.

     I observe on page 5 the designation "Tillston College" of The
     American Missionary Association; the correct name is Tillotson
     College, for the institution at Austin, Texas. The footnote gives
     Brawley as authority. I do not have this book at hand but have
     a suspicion that the erroneous spelling is found there also.

     Another statement in the same article which seems to me erroneous
     in a more serious matter is found at the bottom of page 4, where
     it is assumed that in 1863 "only 5 per cent of the Negro
     population was literate." In your book on The Education of the
     Negro Prior to 1861 you have stated very solid reasons for
     believing 10 per cent to be about the right estimate. This
     accords also with the U.S. Census figures of 1870, set forth in a
     table of which I sent you a copy. Is it not a matter of vital
     significance to our American history which of these statements is
     to be accepted? Yesterday I saw posted on the wall of a New Haven
     church the statement of 5 per cent. It used to be considered
     allowable to make wild statements on this subject when presenting
     the claims of Southern education. Indeed I have known the
     statement to be made in such a connection, that none of the
     Negroes could read or write before the war. I yield to no one in
     my estimate of the importance of the work of Northern teachers
     and Northern schools in the education of the colored people. But
     their value is not magnified by such exaggerated and reckless
     over-statement. Rather is it brought under serious question and
     damaging suspicion.

     You have done and are still doing most valuable work in the
     interest of historical accuracy, and to clear away the fogs of
     misconstruction and misapprehension concerning the Negro people
     which have prevailed for at least a hundred years. I could wish
     that you might see your way as an editor to insist on alteration
     in a manuscript containing such a misstatement, or at least add
     an editorial comment on the point.

     Wishing for your Journal continued and increasing circulation
     and popular support, I remain,

                              Faithfully, yours,
                                    G. S. DICKERMAN.

The editor made the following reply:

                                             February 28 1920.

     DR. G. S. DICKERMAN,
       140 Cottage Street,
         New Haven, Conn.

     My dear Dr. Dickerman:

     I have your interesting letter in which you make a strong plea
     for accuracy in the writing of history that the Negro may receive
     justice at the hands of those represented as treating the records
     of the race scientifically. You insist that, prior to the
     emancipation of the race, more than five per cent of the Negro
     population was literate, and refer to my Education of the Negro
     Prior to 1861 to support you in that statement. You must
     observe, however, that I maintain that ten per cent of the adult
     Negroes had the rudiments of education. It might, therefore, be
     possible for some one to prove that less than ten per cent of the
     whole Negro population was at that time able to read and write.

     Thanking you for your interest in this work, I am

                              Yours very truly,
                                      C. G. WOODSON,
                                                 Director.

The tables to which Dr. Dickerman refers were sent to the editor with a letter, both of which
follow:

         140 COTTAGE STREET, NEW HAVEN, CONN., July 14, 1917. But my manuscript was so long
     that it was thought best to eliminate about a third of it and
     this table with much besides.

     I have therefore thrown this Census study into form for
     publication in an article by itself. If you like you may have it
     for Journal of Negro History. Of course the Census is not
     infallible and the Ninth Census has been especially charged with
     inaccuracy. But it certainly has some meaning, and I think the
     confirmation of your conclusions is worth noticing.

     If you do not wish to use the article please return it to the
     above address.

                              Very truly yours,
                                      G. S. DICKERMAN.

               THE NINTH CENSUS ON NEGRO ILLITERACY

    The treatise of Dr. Carter Godwin Woodson on The Education of the
    Negro Prior to 1861 offers an impressive array of evidence to
    show that there were many more Negroes than have usually been
    supposed who had some literary knowledge while still under
    slavery. Other evidence bearing on a subject of so great
    importance cannot but have interest for historians of that period.

    Some of the statistics in the United States Census of 1870 are in
    point: Figures are there given for the colored men of voting age,
    that is for those over 21, who were unable to read and write.
    There are also given the total numbers of colored men of voting
    age in the several States. Subtracting the former from the latter
    will then give the number of those able to read and write. The
    results appear in the table presented below:

    COLORED MALES 21 YEARS OF AGE AND UPWARD IN 1870; WITH REFERENCE
    TO THEIR ABILITY TO WRITE

     =====================+===========+===========+=========+==========
                          |           | Unable to | Able to | Per Cent
                          |  Total    |   Write   |  Write  |   Able
     ---------------------+-----------+-----------+---------+----------
     United States        | 1,032,475 | 862,243   | 170,232 |  16.5
     Southern States      |   932,612 | 820,670   | 111,942 |  12.0
     All other states     |    99,863 |  41,573   |  58,290 |  58.4
     ---------------------+-----------+-----------+---------+----------
     Alabama              |    97,823 |   91,017  |   6,806 |   6.9
     Arkansas             |    26,789 |   23,681  |   3,108 |  11.6
     District of Columbia |    10,143 |    7,599  |   2,544 |  25.1
     Florida              |    18,842 |   16,806  |   2,036 |  10.8
     Georgia              |   107,962 |  100,551  |   7,411 |   6.9
     Kentucky             |    44,322 |   37,889  |   6,432 |  14.5
     Louisiana            |    86,911 |   76,612  |  10,301 |  11.7
     Maryland             |    39,123 |   27,123  |  11,997 |  30.6
     Mississippi          |    89,920 |   80,810  |   9,116 |  10.1
     Missouri             |    23,886 |   18,002  |   5,880 |  24.6
     North Carolina       |    78,012 |   68,669  |   9,350 |  12.0
     South Carolina       |    85,475 |   70,830  |  14,645 |  17.1
     Tennessee            |    64,131 |   55,938  |   8,193 |  12.8
     Texas                |    51,575 |   47,235  |   4,340 |   8.4
     Virginia             |   107,691 |   97,908  |   9,783 |   9.1
     ---------------------+-----------+-----------+---------+----------

    This Census gives the figures for women of color over 21 years of
    age who were unable to write; but not the whole number of women of
    color over 21. If however we assume the proportion of all Negro
    males to all Negro females to hold the same for those over 21 we
    arrive at the conclusion that the whole number of women of color
    over 21 was 1,072,847 for the United States; of whom 946,332 were
    unable to write and 126,515 were able. That is, in 1870, there
    were approximately 126,515 women of color of 21 years of age and
    upward who were able to read and write. This number added to the
    170,232, found for the number of literate men, gives a total of
    296,747 Negroes of 21 years of age and upward who were able to
    read and write; which is 14 per cent of the whole number. There
    must have been a considerable increase between 1863 and 1870, but
    one can hardly suppose it to have been over 4 per cent, or 84,212,
    which substantiates the estimate of about 10 per cent of the
    Negroes as able to read and write at the date of emancipation. We
    may suppose that the number of those who were able to read, but
    did not add to this the accomplishment of writing, must have been
    much larger.

    The existence of so large a body of Negroes who already had the
    rudiments of an education goes far to account for the rapid growth
    of schools as soon as the Negroes were made free, and especially
    for that eagerness that was shown for advanced learning which
    made an almost immediate demand for secondary schools and colleges
    at the more important centers of population throughout the South.
    The people had received, in some way or other, a love of education
    and a start in obtaining it under the old slave system, so that
    when the new chance came they were ready to make a good use of it.

                                             G. S. DICKERMAN.

BOOK REVIEWS

     The Centennial History of Illinois, Volume III. The Era of the
     Civil War 1848-1870. By ARTHUR CHARLES COLE. The Illinois
     Centennial Commission, Springfield, Illinois, 1919.

This volume of this work deals with the period of the most dramatic history of the State. After
discussing the frontier and the rise of railroads, the author directs his attention to the
agitation and compromise of 1850, the origin of the Republican party, the Lincoln-Douglass
Debates, the election of 1860, the appeal to arms, the war in Illinois, new abolitionists and
copperheads, and the war in its relation to agriculture and the industrial revolution. The
book is illustrated with such portraits as those of Abraham Lincoln, Stephen A. Douglass, Lyman
Trumbull and Richard Yates. There are maps showing the foreign-born population in 1860, the
presidential election in 1848, the vote for treasurer in 1854, the vote for congressmen in
1858, the vote on the constitution in 1862, the vote for congressmen-at-large in 1860, and
the presidential election in 1868. The volume closes with an adequate bibliography and a useful
index.

As a book on the Civil War is not uncommon, one does not ordinarily expect many things new
from such a volume inasmuch as most of them cover familiar ground. In connecting the history
of Illinois with the national drama of Civil War, however, the author has brought forward facts
which, although belonging to local history, have a national significance and historians will
make use of them, although they will not agree with him in all of his views. The scientific
use which he has made of the newspaper material of that day is especially commendable. He has,
moreover, shown that this history was as economic as political. Good farms and roads figured
as conspicuously as efficient generals and wise statesmen.

There is some mention of the Negro as a human element. Sympathy for the race, "whether the
southern slave or the northern victim of the black laws, was aroused by Uncle Tom's Cabin in
1852." Thereafter came the effort to secure for the blacks equal rights before the law but
because of opposition to them in southern Illinois the black code could not be easily repealed,
for race hatred often broke out in southern towns as in the case of Mound City, which in 1857
undertook to drive out all Negroes. The author mentions also such strivings of the Negroes
as the efforts of the members of the race in Chicago to defend their rights by protesting against
the oppression through local indignation meetings and the Colored National Convention in Cleveland
in 1848. Their Chicago Literary Society condemned the Fugitive Slave Law, they organized to
resist colonizationists and kidnappers, and at the outbreak of the war organized a military
force to fight for their own freedom.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The National Encyclopedia of the Colored Race. Volume I. By
     CLEMENT RICHARDSON, Editor-in-Chief. The National Publishing
     Company, Montgomery, Alabama, 1919.

This is a fair effort at local and national biography with no pretense to scientific treatment.
Some attention is given also to religious and educational institutions. Apparently almost any
one financially able to aid the enterprise or sufficiently influential to have his sketch incorporated
into the work appears in this volume. One man's achievements seemed to count for about as much
as those of another and the law of proportion was disregarded. There are farmers, business
men, ministers, physicians, dentists, lawyers and the like, many of whom are well known and
others who have made no impression upon the world except to complete a course in an institution
of learning and to use the knowledge thus acquired in making a living. The world has never
heard of some of them and they will, of course, thank the editor for this publicity.

The aim of this work, according to the editor, is to inform and inspire. He complains that
the ordinary work of this kind has merely had information for its purpose. As the only sure
hope the black American can entertain for immediate notice comes through committing crime,
the editor here endeavors to treat the records of a large number of Negroes who, because of
their color, would never have a hearing. The aim of the book too is not only to inform the
white race but it is to introduce Negroes to one another. To be properly inspired they need
to be better informed as to what the ambitious members of the race are doing in their various
fields of endeavor. An effort is made to get away from former biographical works largely given
to eulogy of individuals unduly advertised. The aim seems rather to idealize the life of obscure
men, who have achieved merit in applying themselves to the ordinary duties of life. Referring
to the failure to treat more extensively the biographical material of the whole race the editor
states that such accounts cannot be secured in many instances for the reason that, some are
indifferent to fame, experience a shrinking from publicity, or are too busy to give attention
to matters of this kind. The defects of this book, however, cannot be excused on this ground.

On the whole, the book has a value. It is fairly well printed, is adequately illustrated, and
is readable. Although much of the information given is not now uninteresting it will in the
course of time serve as a valuable source book.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The Man Next Door. By A. B. JACKSON, M.D. Neaula Publishing
     Company, Philadelphia, Pa., 1919. Pp. 253.

This is another work on the much mooted question, the Negro problem. There was in the mind
of the author some doubt as to whether or not he should make an apology for adding another
such work to the many volumes written in this field. Observing, however, that the discussions
of the race problem have in the past done some good as well as harm, he here endeavors to present
an up-to-date discussion from a new point of view in order to conform with the exigencies of
the day. The aim is to direct special attention to the failure to recognize the Negro as a
human asset with untold economic possibilities. He believes that the matter of race values
and interdependency of all races must find "a definite and assuredly positive place in the
various policies of any nation which is made up of several race groups." In one sense the author
believes that "racial conflict, strife and differences inspiring as they do, struggle, jealousy,
and ambition, are essential to the progress of the whole group of mankind." He insists, however,
that struggle should be a friendly rivalry out of which shall be woven a strong and everlasting
national fabric consistent with impressing and assuring the perpetuation of the various policies
which guarantee national honor and uplift.

The author believes that the one great hope for the Negro is to make himself an economic asset
to his country. When this is accomplished, there will be little doubt as to the possibility
of his securing full recognition as a citizen. He does not deplore the presence of obstacles
but rather thinks that the salvation of the race will be in developing in the midst of this
struggle the power to overcome these obstacles. It is suggested that the discussion of these
matters should be dispassionate and efforts for adjustment should be based upon reason rather
than upon sentiment. To show exactly how this can be done the author has directed his attention
to such questions as citizenship, and patriotism, the producer and the consumer, the Negro
and his church, and educational assets. The question is further treated under such captions
as race consciousness, health and economics, tuberculosis a great waste, rent and ownership,
and business development. The book closes with observations on racial grouping, political status,
and the follies of prejudice.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Darkwater. By W. E. B. DUBOIS. Harcourt, Brace and Howe, New
     York, 1920. Pp. 276.

This work is a collection of essays by the well-known author of Souls of Black Folk, The Philadelphia
Negro, The Suppression of the African Slave Trade, and The Negro. The aim of the work is to
show that the Negro problem is essentially connected with the problem of work or wages or education
and government which, when solved, will mean also the solution of the race problem. To give
his point of view, the author, therefore, describes his childhood, training, and outlook on
the world as a Negro. To show the "vast emotional content of the social problem, he has inserted
between the chapters, bits of poetry and fancy which interpret the bewilderment, the disappointment,
the longing and the faith of millions of men. The work ends with a brief philosophy of duty
and death and a story and a hymn looking toward human unity.

This book, therefore, follows the trend of thought characteristic of Dr. DuBois. As in the
beautifully written essays entitled Souls of Black Folk he has here put himself forward as
a person representative of millions of black men seriously suffering from social proscription.
Although his contention that the race problem is interwoven with the economic problems of the
country is presented as the reason for directing more attention to this problem, the author
does not treat the race question from an economic point of view. This has been the defect of
the historical works which Dr. DuBois has written. He is at best a popular essayist with a
bit of poetic genius. In all of his discussions of the race problem his mind has not as yet
been adequate to the task of scientific treatment of the question. The Suppression of the African
Slave Trade is a literary compilation or digest of State and national legislation to curb an
evil, but it does not exhibit any relief or a unifying influence. The Philadelphia Negro is
an ordinary report on social conditions which a local secretary of the Urban League could now
compile in almost any large city in about three or six months and his The Negro is merely a
summary of a number of popular works setting forth such history of Africa as a few travellers
have been able to learn from the outside. It is hoped, therefore, that Dr. DuBois will take
his task more seriously that he may finally write a scholarly economic treatise in this long
neglected field.

NOTES

The next annual meeting of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History will convene
in Washington, D. C., next November. All institutions interested in the teaching of Negro life
and history will be invited to send representatives to this meeting to confer as to the best
methods of prosecuting studies in this neglected field. The session will cover two days to
be devoted to addresses by the best thinkers of the country. The official program will appear
within a few weeks.

       *       *       *       *       *

The illustrated textbook in Negro history by Dr. C. G. Woodson has been further delayed by
disturbances among the printers. It is hoped that it will appear before the end of the year.

A. B. Caldwell, of Atlanta, has published Volume III (South Carolina edition) of what he calls
the History of the American Negro.

THE JOURNAL

OF

NEGRO HISTORY

VOL. V--JULY, 1920--NO. 3

THE SLAVE IN CANADA

PREFACE

When engaged in a certain historical inquiry, I found occasion to examine the magnificent collection
of the Canadian Archives at Ottawa, a collection which ought not to be left unexamined by anyone
writing on Canada. In that inquiry I discovered the proceedings in the case of Chloe Cooley
set out in Chapter V of the text. This induced me to make further researches on the subject
of slavery in Upper Canada. The result was incorporated in a paper, The Slave in Upper Canada,
read before the Royal Society of Canada in May 1919, and subsequently published in the JOURNAL
OF NEGRO HISTORY for October, 1919. Some of the Fellows of the Royal Society of Canada and
the editor of the JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY have asked me to expand the paper. The present work
is the result.

I have spent many happy hours in the Canadian Archives and have read all and copied most of
the documents referred to in this book; but I cannot omit to thank the officers at Ottawa for
their courtesy in forwarding my labor of love, in furnishing me with copies, photographic and
otherwise, and in unearthing interesting facts. It will not be considered invidious if I mention
William Smith, Esq., I.S.O. and Miss Smillie, M.A., as specially helpful. My thanks are also
due to Messrs. Herrington, K.C., of Napanee, F. Landon, M.A., of London, Mrs. Hallam and Mrs.
Seymour Corley of Toronto, General Cruikshank of Ottawa, the Very Reverend Dean Raymond of
Victoria, as well as to many others of whose labors I have taken advantage. This general acknowledgment
will, I trust, be accepted in lieu of special and particular acknowledgment from time to time.

The chapter on the Maritime Provinces is almost wholly taken from the Reverend Dr. T. Watson
Smith's paper on Slavery in Canada in the Nova Scotia Historical Society's Collections, Vol.
X, Halifax, 1899.

CHAPTER I

BEFORE THE CONQUEST

That slavery existed in Canada before its conquest by Britain in 1759-60, there can be no doubt,
although curiously enough it has been denied by some historians and essayists.[1] The first
Negro slave of which any account is given was brought to Quebec by the English in 1628. He
was a young man from Madagascar and was sold in Quebec for 50 half crowns.[2] Sixty years thereafter
in 1688, Denonville, the Governor and DeChampigny, the Intendant of New France, wrote to the
French Secretary of State, complaining of the dearness and scarcity of labor, agricultural
and domestic, and suggesting that the best remedy would be to have Negro slaves. If His Majesty
would agree to that course, some of the principal inhabitants would have some bought in the
West Indies on the arrival of the Guinea ships. The minister replied in 1689 in a note giving
the King's consent but drawing attention to the danger of the slaves coming from so different
a climate dying in Canada and thereby rendering the experiment of no avail.[3]

The Indians were accustomed to make use of slaves, generally if not universally of those belonging
to other tribes: and the French Canadians frequently bought Indian slaves from the aborigines.
These were called "Panis."[4] It would seem that a very few Indians were directly enslaved
by the inhabitants: but the chief means of acquiring Panis was purchase from les sauvages.

The property in slaves was well recognized in International Law. We find that in the Treaty
of Peace and Neutrality in America signed at London, November 16, 1686,[5] between the Kings
of France and England, which James II had arranged shortly after attaining the throne, Article
10 provides that the subjects of neither nation should take away the savage inhabitants, or
their slaves or the goods which the savages had taken belonging to the subjects of either nation,
and that they should give no assistance or protection to such raids and pillage. In 1705 it
was decided that Negroes in America were "moveables," meubles, corresponding in substance to
what is called "personal property" in the English law.[6] This decision was on the Coutume
de Paris, the law of New France.

The Panis and Negro slaves were not always obedient. Jacques Raudot, the Intendant, April 13,
1709, made an ordinance on "the Subject of Negroes and Savages called Panis." In this he recited
the advantage the colony would acquire by certainty of ownership of the savages called Panis
"whose nation is far removed from this country" and that certainty could only be brought about
through the Indians who capture them in their homes and deal for the most part with the English
of Carolina, but who sometimes in fact sell them to the Canadians who are often defrauded of
considerable sums through an idea of liberty inspired in the Panis by those who do not buy,[7]
so that almost daily they leave their masters under the pretext that there are no slaves in
France--that is not wholly true since in the islands of this Continent all the Negroes bought
as such are regarded as slaves."

The further recital says that all the colonies should be on the same footing, and that the
Panis were as necessary for the Canadians for the cultivation of the land and other work as
the Negroes were for the islands, that it was necessary to assure the property in their purchases
those who have bought and those who should buy in the future. On February 8, 1734, Gilles Hocquart,
the Intendant at Quebec issued an ordinance in which he recited that in 1732 Captain Joanne
of the Navy brought a Carib slave of his to Canada and employed him as a sailor; that he had
deserted when Captain Joanne was ready to embark for the West Indies; and that the master had
seen and recognized him a short time theretofore in the Parish of St. Augustine but on reclaiming
him certain evil-disposed persons had facilitated his escape. The ordinance directed all captains
and officers of the militia to give their assistance to the master in recovering the Carib
slave and forbade all persons to conceal him or facilitate his escape on pain of fine or worse.[9]

Slavery thereafter tended to expand. The Edict of October 1727 concerning the American islands
and colonies and therefore including Canada in the preamble spoke of the islands and colonies
being in a condition to support a considerable navigation and commerce by the consumption and
trade of Negroes, goods and merchandise, and the measures taken to furnish the necessary Negroes,
goods and merchandise. It was decreed that only such Negroes, goods, and merchandise should
be received by the islands and colonies as should be brought in French bottoms. Very explicit
and rigid regulations were made to that end.

Some of these slaves were too vindictive to be good servants. There is given by Abbé Gosselin
in a paper in the Transactions, Royal Society of Canada for 1900, an account of a mutiny of
part of the garrison at Niagara incited by a Panis probably in the service of an officer at
the post. Some of the mutineers were sentenced to death but made their escape while the Panis,
Charles, was sent to Martinique with a request to the authorities to make him a slave and to
take every precaution that he should not escape to Canada or even to the English colonies.
A female slave of color belonging to Mme. de Francheville who had been bought in the English
Colonies set fire to her mistress' home the night of the 10-11 April 1734, thus causing a conflagration
which destroyed a part of the city of Montreal. The unfortunate slave was apprehended and tried
for the crime then and for long after a capital felony. Being found guilty, she was hanged
June, 1734.

The increase in the number of slaves made necessary some regulation concerning their liberation.
September 1, 1736, Gilles Hocquart, the Intendant already mentioned, made an ordinance concerning
the formalities requisite in the enfranchisement of slaves. Reciting that he had been informed
that certain persons in Canada had freed their slaves without any other formality than verbally
giving them their liberty, and the necessity of fixing in an invariable manner the status of
slaves who should be enfranchised, he ordered that for the future all enfranchisements should
be by notarial act and that all other attempted enfranchisements should be null and void.

Slaves unable to secure their freedom by legal means, however, undertook sometimes to effect
the same by flight. A royal decree of July 23, 1745, recited the escape of three male and one
female Negro slaves from the English West India Island of Antigua to the French Island of Guadeloupe
and there sold. There followed a decision of the Superior Council of Guadeloupe that the proceeds
of the sale belonged to the King of France and Negro slaves belonging to the enemy when they
came into a French colony became at once the property of His Majesty. To make clear the course
to pursue for the future, the decree declared that Negro slaves who escape from enemy colonies
into French colonies and all they bring with them belong to His Majesty alone in the same way
as enemy ships and goods wrecked on his coasts.

With all of this security the ownership of slaves became common. In the Registers of the Parish
of La Longue Pointe is found the certificate of the burial, March 13, 1755, of the body of
Louise, a female Negro slave, aged 27 days, the property of M. Deschambault. In the same Parish
is found the certificate of baptism of Marie Judith, a Panis, about 12 years of age belonging
to Sieur Preville of the same Parish, November 4, 1756. On January 22, 1757, one Constant a
Panis slave of Sieur de Saint Blain, officer of Infantry, is sentenced by de Monrepos, Lieutenant-Governor
civil and criminal in the Jurisdiction of Montreal,[10] to the pillory in a public place on
a market day and then to perpetual banishment from the jurisdiction.

The conquest of Canada begun at Quebec in 1759 and completed by the surrender to Amherst of
Montreal by de Vaudreuil in 1760 had some bearing on slavery. One of the Articles of Capitulation,
the 47th, provided that "the Negroes and Panis of both Sexes shall remain in the possession
of the French and Canadians to whom they belong; they shall be at liberty to keep them in their
service in the Colony or to sell them: and they may also continue to bring them up in the Roman
religion."[11]

Having now reached the end of the French period, it will be well to say a word as to the rights
of the slaves. There is nowhere any intimation that there was any difference in that regard
between the Negro and the Panis. The treatment of the latter by their fellow Indians depended
upon the individual master. The Panis had no rights which his Indian master was bound to respect.
Remembering the persistence of customs among uncivilized peoples, one may conclude that the
description given of slavery among the Chinook Indians about a century later will probably
not be far from the mark concerning the Indians of the earlier time and their slaves.

Paul Kane, the celebrated explorer and artist,[12] in a paper read before the Canadian Institute[13]
in 1857 said: "Slavery is carried on to a great extent along the North-West Coast and in Vancouver
Island and the Chinooks.... The inhabitants still retain a large number of slaves. These are
usually procured from the Chastay Tribe who live near the Umqua, a river south of the Columbia
emptying into the Pacific. They are sometimes seized by war-parties but are often bought from
their own people.... Their slavery is of the most abject description: the Chinook men and women
treat them with great severity and exercise the power of life and death at pleasure."

Kane gives shocking instances of this. He tells of a chief who sacrificed five slaves to a
colossal wooden idol he had set up and says that the unfortunate slaves were not considered
entitled even to burial but their bodies were cast out to the crows and vultures.

Amongst the French such an extreme of barbarity did not obtain. Their law was based upon the
civil law, that is, the law of Rome, which in its developed form recognized the slave as a
human being. The Roman world was full of slaves. Not only were there slaves born but debtors
sometimes sold themselves[14] or their children. The criminal might be enslaved. In early pagan
times the slave had no rights. He was a chattel disposable according to the will of his master
who had jus vitæ necisque, who could slay, mutilate, scourge at pleasure.[15] In the course
of time this extreme power was restrained. Hadrian forbade the killing of slaves, Marius allowed
the slave to lay an information against his master. The prefect at Rome and the presidents
of the provinces took cognizance of crimes against the slave; and Constantine allowed a master
to go free on killing his slave in chastisement only if he used rods or whips, but not if he
used sticks, stones or javelins or tortured him to death.[16] Hard as was his lot, the unhappy
slave had at least some rights in the later civil law, few and slight as they were, and these
he had under the Coutume de Paris, the law of French Canada.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] For example in Garneau's Histoire du Canada (1st Edit) Vol. 2, p. 447 after speaking of
correspondence of 1688-9 referred to in the text he says of the answer of the authorities in Paris:

"C'était assez pour faire échouer une enterprise, qui aurait greffé sur notre société la grande
et terrible plaie qui paralyse la force d'une portion si considérable de l'Union Américaine,
l'esclavage, cette plaie inconnue sous notre ciel du Nord"--"That was effective to strand a
scheme which would have engrafted upon our society that great and terrible plague which paralyses
the energies of so considerable a part of the American Union, Slavery, that plague unknown
under our northern sky."

[2] He was sold by David Kertk or Kirke the first English Conqueror of Quebec. England held
her conquest only from 1629 to 1632, if it be permissible to call Kirke's possession that of
England when he was repudiated by his country.

Relations des Jesuites, 1632, p. 12: do. do. 1633, p. 25. Much of the information which follows
concerning slavery in Quebec is taken from a paper in the Memoirs of the Historical Society
of Montreal, 1859, De L'esclavage en Canada, written by M. Jacques Viger and Sir L.H. Lafontaine.
I have made an independent investigation and am satisfied that the facts are truly stated.
This general acknowledgment will prevent the necessity of particular reference.

In a local history of Montreal Memoirs de la Société Historique de Montreal 1869, p. 200, there
is a reference to Panis slaves in Montreal in 1670.

[3] "Mais il est bon de leur faire remarquer qu'il est à craindre que ces nègres, venant d'un
climat si différent, no périssent en Canada et le projet serait alors inutile." "Il est à craindre"
that the prospect of "le projet" being "inutile" was more alarming than that of "ces nègres"
perishing in frozen Canada. It is held by some that the Panis were a tribe wholly distinct
from the tribe known among the English as Pawnees--e.g., Drake's History of the Indians of
North America. Thwaites, an exceedingly careful writer, in his edition of Long's Travels, Cleveland,
1904, says in a note on page 117; "Indian Slavery among the French was first practised in the
Illinois Country." He gives no authority and I know of none.

[5] Referred to in Chalmers' Collection of Treaties between Great Britain and Other Powers,
London, 1790, p. 328: Pap. Off. B. 25.

[6] We shall see later in this work that by the English law, the "villein" was real property
and in the same case as land: also that when Parliament came to legislate so as to make lands
in the American Colonies liable for debts, "Negroes" were included in "hereditaments" and therefore
"real estate."

[7] Thus early do we find the Abolitionist getting in his fiendish work--the enemy of society,
of God and man!

[8] This ordinance is quoted (Mich. Hist.

In Kingsford's History of Canada, Vol. 2, p. 507, we are told: "In 1718, several young men
were prosecuted on account of their relations with Albany carried on through Lake Champlain.
One of them, M. de la Découverte, had made himself remarkable by bringing back a Negro slave
and some silver ware. One of the New York Livingstones resided in Montreal and was generally
the intermediary in these transactions. The author adds in a note: "This negro must have been
among the first brought to Canada."

[9] "A peine d'amende arbitraire et de plus grande peine si le cas y escheoit."

[10] Canada was at this time divided into three Jurisdictions or Districts--those of Quebec,
Trois Rivières and Montreal.

[11] There are trifling variations in the English text in the several versions in the Capitulations
and Extracts of Treaties relating to Canada, 1797; Knox's Journal, Vol. 2, p. 423: Documents
relative to the Colonial History of the State of New York, Vol. 10, p. 1107. That in the text
is from Shortt & Doughty's Constitutional Documents 1759-1791, Canadian Archives Publication,
Ottawa, 1907. There is no substantial difference in terminology and none at all in meaning.
I give the French version, as to which there is no dispute: "Les Nègres et panis des deux Sexes
resteront En leur qualité d'Esclaves, en la possession des françois et Canadiens à qui Ils
apartiement; Il leur Sera libre de les garder à leur Service dans la Colonie od de les vendre,
Et Ils pourront aussi Continuer à les faire Elever dans la Religion Romaine."

[12] The Province of Ontario is the proud possessor of many of Paul Kane's sketches.

[13] Now the Royal Canadian Institute. The paper appears in Series II of the Transactions,
Vol. 2, p. 20 (1857).

The use by the Indians of Slaves is noted very early: for example in Galinée's Narrative of
the extraordinary voyage of LaSalle and others in 1669-70 the travellers are shown to have
obtained from the Indians, slaves as guides. See pp. 21, 27, 43 of Coyne's edition, 4 Ont.
Hist. Soc. Papers (1903). These Indians were accustomed to take their slaves to the Dutch.
Ibid., p. 27.

Still there is not very much in the old authors about slavery among the Indians: the references
are incidental and fragmentary and the institution is taken for granted. Thus in Lescarbot's
History of New France, published in 1609, the only reference which I recall is on pp. 270,
449 of The Champlain Society's edition, Toronto, 1914; speaking of the Micmacs the author says:
" ... the conquerors keep the women and children prisoners ... herein they retain more humanity
than is sometimes shown by Christians. For in any case, one should be satisfied to make them
slaves as do our savages or to make them purchase their liberty."

[14] It will be remembered that the ancient law of Rome, the Twelve Tables, authorized creditors
to take an insolvent debtor, kill him and divide his body amongst them, a real execution against
the person more trenchant if not more effective than the capias ad satisfaciendum dear to the
English lawyer.

[15] Everyone has shuddered at the awful picture drawn by Juvenal in his Sixth Satire of the
fashionable Roman dame who had eight husbands in five years and who ordered her slave to immediate
crucifixion. When her husband mildly ventured to suggest that there should at least be some
evidence of guilt and that no time should be considered long where the life of a man is in
question he was snubbed, just as the Roman lady who was expostulated with for taking her bath
in the presence of man slaves asked "An servus homo?" The horrible but pithy dialogue reads:

    "Pone crucem servo." "Meruit quo crimine servus
    Supplicium? Quis testis adest? Quis detulit? 219-223.

"The cross for the slave!" "What is the charge? What is the evidence? Who laid the information?
Hear what he has to say--No delay is ever great where the death of a man is in question." "You
driveller! So a slave is a man! Have it your own way--he did nothing. I wish it, that is my
order, my wish is a good enough reason."

The natural death for a Roman slave was on the cross or under the scourge.

[16] Constantine also by his Constitution No. 319 provided for slaves becoming free: the Constitution
referred to in the text is No. 326. The best short account of slave legislation in Rome which
I have seen is in a paper read by the late Vice Chancellor Proudfoot of the Ontario Court of
Chancery, February 7, 1891, before the Canadian Institute. Trans. Can. Ins., Series IV, Vol.
2, p. 173. Many of the judgments of Vice Chancellor Proudfoot (venerabile nomen) show a profound
knowledge and appreciation of the Civil Law.

The following is taken from Prof. Sherman's great work Roman Law in the Modern World, Boston,
1917. The learned author has laid philosophical lawyers of all countries under heavy obligations
by this splendid book, as noted for its lucidity as for its learning.

Vol. I, 69. "To inflict unnatural cruelty upon--and finally to kill--a slave was prohibited
by Augustus Claudius and Antoninus Pius. Moreover, because by natural law all men were born
free and equal (see Digest, 50, 17, 32) the Emperor often restored to slaves the status of
a freeborn person."

I, 146. "Constantine ... abolished crucifixion as a punishment; encouraged the emancipation
of slaves...."

I, 150. " ... It is regrettable that Christianity did not change other parts of the Roman law
of persons which ought to have been reformed. The chief example of this failure is slavery,
which the law of Justinian fully recognized. The inertia of past centuries as to slavery was
too great to be overcome. St. Paul's attitude towards slavery was to recognize the status quo,
and he did not counsel wholesale emancipation. But Christianity continued the progress of the
pagan law along the lines of mercy and kindness, e.g., to poison a slave or brand him was treated
in later Imperial Roman law as homicide, and manumission was made easier; but the Church did
not recognize the marriage of slaves until over 300 years after Justinian's death."

II, 434, "In Roman law ... the slave was a thing or chattel--nothing more legally. Slaves could
no hold property--slaves could not marry, their actual unions were never legally recognized."

II, 436, "With the advent of Greek culture and Christianity the harsh manners of ancient Rome
became greatly altered."

II, 828, "One feature of the Lex Aquilia is ... that it granted an action in damages for the
unlawful killing of ... the slave of another man." Inst., 413, pr; Gaius 3, 210.

II. 829, " ... the owner had his option either of suing the culprit for damages under the lex
Aquilia or of causing him to be criminally prosecuted." Inst., 4, 3, 11 Gaius 3, 213.

II, 935, "A free person called as a witness could not be subjected to torture, but a slave
could be tortured."

CHAPTER II

THE EARLY BRITISH PERIOD

When Canada passed under the British flag by conquest there was for a time confusion as to
the law in force. During the military regime from 1760 to 1764 the authorities did the best
they could and applied such law as they thought the best for the particular case. There was
no dislocation in the common affairs of the country. When Canada was formally ceded to Britain
by the Treaty of Paris, 1763,[1] it was not long before there was issued a royal proclamation
creating among other things a "Government of Quebec" with its western boundary a line drawn
from the "South end of Lake Nipissim"[2] to the point at which the parallel of 45° north latitude
crosses the River St. Lawrence. In all that vast territory the English law, civil and criminal,
was introduced.[3] It is important now to see what was the law of England at the time respecting
slavery.

The early records show the use of slaves. Moreover, there are still subsisting records which
show the prevalence of slavery in the province.[15] In January, 1763, there took place at Longueuil
the marriage of Marie, slave of baroness de Longueuil, with Jacques César, slave of M. Ignace
Gamelin. From 1763 to 1769 there are found records of the baptism of the children of slaves
in the registers of the Parish of Lachine. In the first issue of the Gazette of Montreal, June
3, 1778, there is an advertisement by the widow Dufy Desaulniers, offering a reward of six
dollars for the return to her of a female slave who had run away on the 14th. She was thirty-five
years old and she was dressed in striped calico of the ordinary cut and was of "tolerable stoutness."

Alexander Henry writing from Montreal, October 5, 1778, to the Governor Sir Frederick Haldimand,
says that he had obtained a Judgment in the Court of Common Pleas against one Gillelande in
the colonies who owed him a considerable sum of money. "Hearing that a Negro of his had deserted
from him," said Henry, "and was lurking in this Province I obtained an execution upon that
judgment and got the negro apprehended--who is still in gaol." General Powell who was the Commander
there sent to Mr. Gray the Sheriff desiring him to postpone the sale until such time as the
Governor should be made acquainted with the matter. Mr. Gray thereafter informed Mr. Henry
that he mentioned the affair to Sir Frederic Haldimand, who likewise ordered the sheriff to
postpone the sale until the Governor could confer with the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General
thereafter informed Mr. Henry that he had spoken to the Governor, who was of the opinion that
the civil law should take its course.... Mr. Gray thought he should have some definite authority
to sell.... He said: "There are some gentlemen from the Upper Countries[16] whom I presume
will give more for him than any person resident here and ... they are now on their return."
He asked that an order for sale should be sent before the departure of these gentlemen.[16]
The higher price which the gentlemen from the "Upper Countries" would pay indicates the objection
of those in the old settled parts of the province to Slavery.

An official report made in 1778 by James Monk, Attorney General at Quebec, to the Governor,
Sir Guy Carleton, (afterwards Lord Dorchester) gives a sufficiently full account of an occurrence
the subject of much controversy and correspondence showing the significance of slavery at that
time. The Attorney General examined the several papers, making a case of complaint, by Joseph
Despin of St. Francois Merchant a trader against Major de Barner Commanding a Regiment of Light
Infantry Chasseurs of Brunswick Troops. Despin complained to Brigadier General Ehrenkrook,
Commander of the Brunswick Troops at Trois Rivieres, that Major de Barner by his orders or
otherwise at Midnight of the first of the previous June, occasioned forcibly to be taken from
said Despin a Negro-woman slave, Despin's property and suffered her to be carried out of the
province. He therefore prayed Brigadier General Ehrenkrook, that Major de Barner might either
return to him the said slave with damages or pay to Despin the value thereof.

Upon this complaint an inquiry was made. In the course of this inquiry Joseph Despin did not
support his complaint and charge with those legal proofs which could entitle him to recover
from Major de Earner thereupon; "or induce a Court of Justice to consider Major de Barner as
having either given any others for the taking of, or even had any knowledge touching the intended
escape of the Slave." The complaint of Despin was then deemed very justly dismissed.

Upon the dismission of this complaint Major de Barner requested of the Governor satisfaction
and punishment upon the accuser, and a notary, one Robin, who prepared notarial acts, in an
unbecoming affrontive manner. This request was made under three heads: first, that Despin might
be exemplarily punished, not merely for a false dishonoring accusation of Major de Barner,
a commanding officer and injurious to his whole battalion, but punishment for the personal
insults to Major de Barner and his character; second, that Despin might pay the expenses of
preparing and making out writings; and third, that the said Robin, the notary, may be equally
punished for using expressions in his acts hurtful and indecent to persons of honor and character.

The Attorney General asserted that there is reason to conclude from the several testimonies
appearing in the case, that Despin had lost his slave by means of some soldiers belonging to
the Battalion of Chasseurs which Major de Barner Commanded, though not in the least by the
orders or with the knowledge or consent of Major de Barner as charged.

One of the most extraordinary stories of the time is told by William Dummer Powell afterwards
Chief Justice of Upper Canada, but in 1780[17] and later practising as a barrister in Montreal.
"Meeting in the Street of Montreal an armed Party escorting to the Provost Guard several female
prisoners and Children," says Mr. Powell, "curiosity was excited and upon engaging the Non-Commissioned
Officer commanding the Escort, Mr. Powell was informed that they were Prisoners of war, taken
in the Kentucky Country and brought into Detroit by a Detachment of the Garrison and now arrived
from thence. Further Enquiry after procuring necessary relief to the first wants of the party,
drew from Mrs. Agnes La Force the following Narrative:

"That her husband was a loyal Subject in the Province of North Carolina,[18] having a good
Plantation well stocked and a numerous family. That his political Sentiments exposed him to
so much Annoyance from the governing Party, that he determined to retire into the wilderness,
that he accordingly mustered his whole family, consisting of several Sons and their Wives and
Children, and Sons-in-law with their Wives and Children, a numerous band of select and valuable
Slaves Male and female, and a large Stock of Cattle, with which they proceeded westward, intending
to retire into Kentucky.

"That after" the accidental death of the father they pursued their route to the westward and
settled with their Slaves in the wilderness about five hundred miles from any civil establishment.
After a residence of three years, a party of regular Troops and Indians from the British Garrison
at Detroit appeared in the plain and summoned them to surrender.[18] "Relying upon British
faith," says Mr. Powell, "they open'd their Gate on condition of Protection to their Persons
and property from the Indians; but they had no sooner surrendered and received that promise
than her sons and sons-in-law had to resort to arms to resist the Insults of the Indians to
their wives and Slaves.[19] Several lives were lost and the whole surviving Party was marched
into Detroit, about six hundred Miles, where the Slaves were distributed among the Captors
and the rest marched or boated eight hundred miles further to Montreal and driven into the
Provot Prison as Cattle into a Pound."[19]

This story will be credited with difficulty but accident some time after put into the hands
of Mr. Powell a document of undeniable credit, which, however, was unnecessary: for on Mr.
Powell's representation of the case to Sir F. Haldimand the most peremptory orders to the Commandant
at Detroit to find out the slaves of Mrs. La Force in whose ever possession they might be and
transmit them to their mistress at Montreal. But Detroit was too far distant from headquarters
and interests prompting to disobedience of such an order too prevalent for it to produce any
effect; and the commandant acknowledged in answer to a reiterated order that the slaves could
not be produced, although their names and those of their new masters were correctly ascertained
and the following list transmitted with the order.

List of slaves formerly the property of Mrs. Agnes La Force and in possession of others:

  Negro   Scipio     in possession of   Simon Girty[20]
   do     Tim         "       "     "   Mr. Le Duc.
   do     Ishener     "       "     "    do   do
   do     Stephen     "       "     "   Captn. Graham.
   do     Joseph      "       "     "   Captn. Elliot.
   do     Peggy       "       "     "    do   do
   do     Job         "       "     "   Mr. Baby
   do     Hannah      "       "     "   Mr. Fisher.
   do     Candis      "       "     "   Capt. McKee.
   do     Bess       --Grace Rachel--and Patrick-Indians"
  ----
   13

The case of Mrs. La Force and some similar cases led Haldimand to require Sir John Johnson,
the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, to report. He wrote from Quebec, July 16, 1781, "Several
complaints having been made upon the subject of selling negroes brought into this Province
(Quebec) by scouting parties--who allege a Right to Freedom and others belonging to Loyalists
who are obliged to relinquish their properties or reclaim them by paying the money for which
they were sold, I must desire that you upon the most minute enquiry give in to Brigadier General
Maclean a Return of all Negroes who have been brought into the Province by Parties in any Respect
under your Directions whether Troops or Indians, specifying their names, their former masters,
whether Loyalists or Rebels, by whom brought in and to whom sold, at what price and where they
are at present. I shall direct Cols. Campbell and Clans to do the same by which it will be
in my Power to reduce the Grievances now complained of and to make such arrangements as will
prevent them in future."

Johnson sent a return of Negroes to Maclean and Maclean July 26, 1781, and they sent it on
to Haldimand: Clans and Campbell made returns direct to Haldimand in August of the same year.
Fortunately the covering letters are extant as are the reports. There is also one Negro, Abraham,
reported in a Return of Rebel Prisoners in and about Montreal as having been taken June 18,
1781; and, therefore, about a year after Mrs. La Force's capture.[21]

"Of the fifty or more slaves named in this list," says Dr. T. W. Smith, "nearly half were sold
at Montreal, a few being carried by the Indians and Whites to Niagara. The others were handed
to their former owners. 'Charles' 'taken at Balls Town making his escape out of a window in
Col. Gordon's house' was sold to the Rev. David C. DeLisle, the Episcopal rector at Montreal,
for £20 Halifax currency; Samuel Judah, Montreal, paid £24 for 'Jacob' also a slave of Col.
Gordon, a rebel master, but for a Negro girl of the same owner he gave £60; Nero, another of
Col. Gordon's slaves, captured by a Mohawk Indian, Patrick Langan sold to John Mittleberger
of Montreal for £60; 'Tom' was sold by Captain Thompson of Col. Butler's Rangers for £25 to
Sir John Johnson who gave him to Mr. Langan; and William Bowen, a Loyalist owner, sold his
recovered slave 'Jack' for £70 to Captain John McDonell of the Rangers. 'William,' who was
also sold for £30 to Mr. McDonell and afterwards carried to Quebec, had been taken from his
master's house by Mohawk Indians under Captain John the Mohawk with a wagon and horses which
he had got ready to convey his mistress Mrs. Fonda wife of Major Fonda to Schenectady ... another
Negro man, name unknown, was sold 'by a soldier of the 8th Regiment to Lieutenant Herkimer
of the Corps of Rangers, who disposed of him to Ensign Sutherland of the Royal Regiment of
New York.'"

Negroes were not the only victims of Indian raids. In 1782 Powell had another experience, which
is indicative of the practices of the Indians during the Revolutionary War.[22] In his letter
to the Commissary of Prisoners at Quebec he wrote:

                                   Montreal, 22 August, 1782.,

     "Sir

     I should make an Apology for the Liberty I take but that I
     consider it a public Duty.

     When you were here some time since, I am informed that mention
     was made to you of a young female slave bought of the Indians by
     a Mr. Campbell, a Publican of this Town, and that when you
     learned that she was the Daughter of decent family in
     Pensilvania[23] captured by the Indians at 10 years of age, your
     Humanity opposed itself to the barbarous Claim of her Master and
     you Promised that she should be returned to her Parents by the
     first Flag with Prisoners.

     "In consequence of such a Promise," continued he, "the Child had
     been taught to expect a speedy release from her Bondage, and,
     finding that her Name was in the List permitted by his Excellency
     to cross the Lines with a flag from St. Johns,[24] she imagined
     that there could be no Obstacle to her Return; but, being
     informed that Mr. Campbell had threatened to give her back to the
     Indians, she eloped last Evening, and took refuge in my House
     from whence a female Prisoner, (sometime a nurse to my children)
     was to sett off this Morning for the Neighborhood of the Child's
     Parents. Upon Application from Mr. Campbell to Brigadr. Genl. De
     Speht setting forth that He had furnished her with money, an
     order was obtained for the delivery of the Child to her Master
     and there was no time for any other Accommodation than an
     undertaking on my part to reimburse Mr. Campbell the Price he
     paid for her to the Indians. This I am to do on his producing a
     Certificate from some Military Gentleman, whom he says was
     present at the Sale. I have no objection to an Act of Charity of
     this Nature, but all Political Considerations aside, I am of
     opinion that the national Honor is interested, that this
     Redemption should not be the Act of an Individual. As Commissary
     of Prisoners I have stated the Case to you, Sir, that you may
     determine upon the propriety of reimbursing me, or not, the sum I
     may be obliged to pay on this occasion.

     "That all may be fairly stated I should observe that the Child
     was never returned a Prisoner,[25] nor has drawn Provisions as
     such--although there can be no doubt of her political character,
     having been captured by our Savages."

The reply to this communication was:

     "I am favored with your's by Saturday's post and have since layed
     it before His Excellency the Commander in Chief, and I have the
     Pleasure to inform you that he approves much of your Conduct and
     feels himself obliged for your very humane Interposition to
     rescue the poor unfortunate Sarah Cole from the Clutches of the
     miscreant Campbell; and I am further to inform you that your
     letter has been transmitted by his Secretary to the Judges at
     Montreal, not only to make Campbell forfeit the money he says he
     paid for the Girl, but if possible to punish and make him an
     example to prevent such inhuman conduct for the Future; but in
     any Event you shall be indemnified for the very generous
     Engagement you entered into."

It has been established that Mr. Powell had redeemed his word the day it was given and paid
Mr. Campbell Twelve Guineas[26] on production of a string of Wampum delivered by the Indians
with the girl and the money paid by Campbell. A cartel went forward August 22, 1782, and in
the list of prisoners sent south appears the name "Sarah Coal."[27] Haldimand gave Mr. Justice
Mabane, the man of all work of his administration, instructions to see to it that Campbell
did not profit by his inhumanity and also to take such steps that the practice should not prevail
for the future.[27]

A petition presented to Haldimand in 1783, however, discloses another transaction with the
Indians.[28] Jacob Adams presented the petition December 13 of that year from Carleton Island.
He said:

     "I have taken a Yankee Boy (by name Francis Cole)[29] with a
     party of Messesagee Indians--afterwards when I arrived at
     Carleton Island with the said party of Indians and said Yankee
     Boy, the Commanding Officer (Captain Aubrey) demanded the
     Prisoners Vizt. this Boy and an old man[30] the Indians refus'd
     giving them up on which Capt. Aubrey gave me Liberty to purchase
     them and so I did by paying sixteen Gallons Rum for the Boy which
     cost me at this place twenty shillings, York Currency, pr.
     Gallon,[31] and he the said Yankee Boy was to serve me the term
     of four years (with his own lawfull consent) for my redeeming
     him. As for the old man I likewise bought him for two Gallons Rum
     but Capt. Aubrey requested I should send him Prisoner to Your
     Excellency. I acted accordingly. I likewise gave a shirt apiece
     to each of the two Chiefs who belonged to said party in like
     manner I lost twenty-four shillings York Currency by four Keggs
     which the above Rum was put into.[32]

     "Now, may it please Yr Excellency this said Yankee Boy remained
     very peaceably and quietly with me for the space of two months
     during which Time I took him several Journeys to Fort Stanwix and
     Oswego and whilst I was absent he got acquainted with some of the
     soldiers on this Island who persuaded him to get off from me and
     accordingly he got off in the manner following: when Lieut.
     Peppin of the 5th Regiment and his Party were embarking on board
     the Haldimand to go to Niagara, he privately got on board and
     remained there Incog. for one Day and a Night on which I made an
     application to Mr. Peppin to make a search for him and
     accordingly he did and found him and likewise brought him before
     the Commanding Officer who asked the Boy his Reasons for Running
     away from me: he replied He did not chuse to live with me on
     which Capt. Aubreay has sent him down as Prisoner to Yr.
     Excellency.

     "May it please Your Excellency I expect your Excellency will
     please to take my Case into consideration by granting me the
     Request of being paid for what I have lost by said Prisoner or
     the Yankee Boy, to be returned to me...."[33]

There were not wanting at this time or later instances of those convicted of crime buying their
lives by enlistment for life. One case of a mulatto, a slave, may be here mentioned. A mulatto
called Middleton was convicted at Montreal in 1781 of a felony (probably larceny) which carried
the sentence of death. He was an expert mechanic of a class of men much in demand in the army
and he was given a pardon conditioned upon his enlisting for life. He chose the Second Batallion
of Sir John Johnson's Royal American Regiment then in Quebec and was handed over by Sheriff
Gray to the officers of that corps after having taken the oath of allegiance administered to
all recruits.[34]

Many slaves were employed as boatmen, laborers, and the like, in the army. We find a letter
from headquarters at Quebec to Captain Maurer who was at Montreal, dated October 6, 1783, which
reads:

     "Having had the Honor to communicate to His Excellency, the
     Commander-in-Chief, your intimation that applications have been
     made by the Proprietors of some Negro's Serving Capt. Harkimer's
     (Herkimer) Company of Batteau Men to have them restored to them
     and desiring to receive His Excellency's Pleasure therein, I am
     directed to signify to you His Excellency's Commands that all
     such Negro's to be given up on the Requisition of their owners,
     provided they produce sufficient Proofs of their Property and
     give full acknowledgments or Receipts for them which must be
     taken in the most ample manner to prevent future claims and to
     have the necessary recourse to those Persons who receive them
     should different applications be made for the above Negro's."[35]

Peace had come[36] and there was no more need for a large army. But it was some years before
the Indians of the western country ceased from their practice of making prisoners.[37]

RETURN OF NEGROES AND NEGRO WOMEN BROUGHT INTO THE PROVINCE BY PARTIES UNDER THE COMMAND AND
DIRECTION OF LIEUT. COL. SIR JOHN JOHNSON, BART 1783

 ================+==============+=========+========+================+
                 |    Former    |Property | Rebel  |    By Whom     |
   Names         |    Masters   |   of    |Property|   Brought In   |
                 |              |Loyalists|        |                |
 ----------------+--------------+---------+--------+----------------+
 Tom             |Conyne        |Loyalist |        |Canada Indians  |
 Charles[1]      |Smyth         |         | Rebel  |                |
 Nero[2]         |Col. Gordon   |         | ditto  |Mohawk Indians  |
 Jacob[3]        |  ditto       |         | ditto  |Mohawk Indians  |
 A Negro Wench[4]|  ditto       |         | ditto  |Mohawk Indians  |
 Betty           |Capt. Collins |         | ditto  |Mohawk Indians  |
 Tom[5]          |Col. Fisher   |         | ditto  |  ditto         |
 Jack            |Barney Wimple |         | ditto  |Royal Rt., N. Y.|
 Diana           |Adam Fonda    |         | ditto  |  ditto         |
 William[6]      |Major Fonda   |         | ditto  |Mohawk Indians  |
 Combwood        |J. Wimple     |         | ditto  |  ditto         |
 Catharine       |Dora Fonda    |         | ditto  |Canada Indians  |
 Simon[7]        |              |         |        |                |
 Boatswain       |Lewis Clemont |  ditto  |        |Canada Indians  |
 Jane            |  ditto       |  ditto  |        |  ditto         |
 Dick            |Col. Butler   |  ditto  |        |Mohawk Rangers  |
 Jack[8]         |Wm. Bowen     |  ditto  |        |Royal Rt., N.Y. |
 Peggy           |Mr. Young     |  ditto  |        |  ditto         |
 Mink[9]         |Capt. Harkemaw|  ditto  |        |                |
 ----------------+--------------+---------+--------+----------------+

 =============+==================+=======+=============================+
              |                  | Price |                             |
   Names      |  To Whom Sold    | Sold  |      Where They Are         |
              |                  | For   |        at Present           |
 -------------+------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
              |                  |Halifax|                             |
              |                  | Curry.|                             |
 Tom          |Jacob Jordon      |£12-10 |Montreal with Mr. Jordon.    |
 Charles      |Rev. Mr. DeLisle  | 20--- |Montreal with Mr. DeLisle.   |
 Nero         |John Mittleberger | 60--- |Montreal in Provost Gaol.    |
 Jacob        |Saml. Judah       | 24--- |Quebec.                      |
 A Negro Wench|  ditto           | 60--- |Montreal with Mr. Judah.     |
 Betty        |John Gregory      | 45--- |Montreal with Mr. Gregory.   |
 Tom          | Captn. Thomson   | 25--- |Montreal with Mr. Tangen.    |
 Jack         |                  |       |Montreal with Capt. Anderson.|
 Diana        |                  |       |  ditto           ditto      |
 William      |Mr. McDonell      | 30--- |Quebec.                      |
 Combwood     |Capt. Sherwood    | 12-10 |St. James with Capt.         |
              |                  |       |                   Sherwood. |
 Catharine    |John Grant        | 12-10 |St. Genevieve with           |
              |                  |       |          Capt. A. McDonell. |
 Simon        |                  |       |Niagara with A. Wimple.      |
 Boatswain    |                  |       |Niagara with                 |
              |                  |       |          his former master. |
 Jane         |                  |       | ditto           ditto       |
 Dick         |                  |       | ditto with                  |
              |                  |       |          his former master. |
 Jack         |Captn. J. McDonell| 70--- | ditto with Captn. McDonell. |
 Peggy        |                  |       | ditto with                  |
              |                  |       |          her former master. |
 Mink         |                  |       |Coteau du Lac with           |
              |                  |       |          his former master. |
 -------------+------------------+-------+-----------------------------+

[1] Taken at Bells Town, making his escape out of a window in Col. Gordon's House.

[2] Runed away some time ago from his late Master.

[3] Taken at the same place endeavoring to make his escape, also runed away from his late Master.

[4] Sold by Sir John Johnson in lieu of a Negro wench and child of his Property which Col.
Gordon exchanged for this Wench.

[5] Sold by Capt. Thomson of Col. Butlers Rangers, to Sir Johnson who gave him to W Langen
Since Dead.

[6] Taken at his masters house by Capt John the Mohawk, with Waggon & Horses which he got ready
to convey his mistress to Schenectady.

[7] Sold by John Grant to Captn Alexander McDonell.

[8] Sold by Wm. Bowen his Former Master, to Captn John McDonell of Col. Butlers Rangers.

[9] Came in with Sir John Johnson, and are now employed in Captn Harkimers company of Batteau Men.

 ============+============== +=========+========+======================+
             |    Former     |Property | Rebel  |    By Whom           |
   Names     |    Masters    |   of    |Property|   Brought In         |
             |               |Loyalists|        |                      |
 ------------+-------------- +---------+--------+----------------------+
 Tance       |Adam Fonda     |         | Rebel  |                      |
 Cato        |Pruyne         |         | ditto  |                      |
 Jack        |Major Fonda    |         | ditto  |                      |
 Jack        |  ditto        |         | ditto  |                      |
 William     |Sir J. Johnson |Loyalist |        |Rl. Rt., N. Y.        |
 Frank       |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Farry       |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Jack        |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Abraham     |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Tom[10]     |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Sam         |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Jacob a boy |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Tanoe a boy |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Phillis     |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Betty       |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Jade        |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Jane        |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Hager       |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Nicholas    |Col. Claus     |  ditto  |        |Mohawk Rangers        |
 Tom         |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Peter       |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 Maria       |  ditto        |  ditto  |        |  ditto               |
 A Negro man name unknown[11]                                          |
 N. B. several others carried to Niagara by Indians and White Men[12]  |
 Chas. Grandison Col. Warner                                           |
 ------------+--------------+---------+--------+-----------------------+

 ============+==================+========+=============================+
             |                  | Price  |                             |
   Names     |  To Whom Sold    | Sold   |    Where They Are           |
             |                  | For    |      at Present             |
 ------------+------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
 Tance       |                  |        |Coteau du Lac.               |
 Cato        |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Jack        |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Jack        |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 William     |                  |        |With his Master.             |
 Frank       |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Farry       |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Jack        |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Abraham     |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Tom[10]     |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Sam         |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Jacob a boy |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Tanoe a boy |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Phillis     |                  |        |With her master.             |
 Betty       |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Jade        |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Jane        |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Hager       |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Nicholas    |                  |        |With his master.             |
 Tom         |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Peter       |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 Maria       |                  |        |  ditto                      |
 ------------+------------------+--------+-----------------------------+

[10] Since dead--All these marks for Sir John Johnson Joyned him on the Mohawk.

[11] Sold by a Soldier of the 8th Regt to Lieut Harkemer of the Corps of Rangers, who sold
him to Ensign Sutherland of the Rl Rt N. Y.

[12] Sent a Prisoner to Fort Chambly--The Indians still claim the allowance promised them by
ye Commandr in Chief.

                                             JOHN JOHNSON,
                                                Lieut Col Comm.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] See this Treaty which was concluded at Paris, February 10, 1763 "au Nom de la Très Sainte
& indivisible Trinité, Pere, Fils & Saint Esprit"--Shortt & Doughty, Constitutional Documents,
1759-1791, pp. 73 sqq.

[2] What we now call Lake Nipissing.

[3] See the Proclamation, Shortt & Doughty, Const. Docs., pp. 119, sqq.

[5] (1772) Lofft, 12 Geo. III, 1; (1772) 20 St. Trials 1.

[8] This was in direct opposition to the opinion of Sir Philip Yorke, Attorney General (afterwards
Lord Chancellor Lord Hardwicke) and Sir Charles Talbot, Solicitor General (afterwards Lord
Chancellor Lord Talbot) who had pledged themselves to the British planters for all the legal
consequences of Slaves coming over to England. The law of Scotland agreed with that of England.

[13] His Commission is dated November 28, 1763, Shortt & Doughty, Constitutional Documents,
1759-1761, pp. 126, sqq.

[14] Canadian Archives, Murray Papers, Vol. II, p. 15: the Quebec Act mentioned immediately
below is (1774) 14 George III, c. 83.

In 1774 the well known Quebec Act reintroduced the former French Canadian law in civil matters
while it retained the English law in criminal matters; but the change made no difference in
the condition of the slave.

[15] The three which follow I owe to the interesting paper of Mr. E. Z. Massicotte, Archivist
of Montreal published in Le Bulletin des Recherches Historiques for November, 1918, pp. 348
sqq.--the advertisement in the Gazette is to be found in Terrill's Chronicles of Montreal.
The paper was 2-1/2 Spanish dollars per annum, 10 sous per copy, published every Wednesday.

[16] The "Upper Countries" were Detroit and Michilimackinae, sometimes including the Niagara
region--at this time there were practically no residents in what became the Province of Upper
Canada and is now the Province of Ontario. The letter is to be found in the Canadian Archives,
B. 217, p. 21: as no further record appears, it is to be presumed that an order was made for
sale by the Sheriff.

The Report of James Monk Attorney-General at Quebec about to be mentioned is to be found in
the Canadian Archives, B. 207, p. 105.

[17] In the same year a much wronged Negro petitioned Haldimand. His petition dated at Quebec,
October 17, 1778, reads: "To His Excellency Frederick

Haldimand, Governor & Commander in Chief of all Kanady and the territories thereunto belonging,

The Petition of Joseph King humbly sheweth that Your Petitioner has been twice taken by the
Yankys and sold by them each time at Public Vendue: he has made his escape and brought two
white men through the woods: he was a servant to Captain McCoy last winter in Montreal and
came here (Quebec) last spring. Your Petitioner has gone through many Perils and Dangers of
his life for making his escape from the Yankeys. He hoaps that Your Excellency through the
abundance of Your Benevolence will grant him his liberty for which your poor Petitioner as
in Duty bound will ever pray." Canadian Archives, B. 217, p. 324.

[18] In the Petition referred to post, Mrs. La Force states that her husband was "late of Virginia."

[19] I have followed the Powell MSS. in spelling, capitalization, etc.

[20] They were taken in an expedition nominally under Captain Bird but he had little control
over the Indians and had only a few men of his own British Regulars. He had had bitter experience
of the cruelty and unreliability of the Indians in 1779 but had to go with them in 1780. This
was not one of the two large Forts which Bird took in his 1780 expedition, Fort Liberty and
Martin's Station, but a smaller fortification. It was taken June 26, 1780 (Can. Arch., B. 172,
480); that there were several small forts is certain; that some of the prisoners brought to
Detroit were from the small forts and that they (or some of them) were not rebels appears from
the letter from De Peyster of August 4, 1780 (Canadian Archives, B. 100, p. 441): "In a former
letter to the Commander in Chief," said he, "I observed that it would be dangerous having so
many Prisoners here but I then thought those small Forts were occupied by a different set of
people."

[21] The well-known so-called Renegade, is in reality a loyal subject whose reputation pays
the penalty of a losing cause. The others are all well-known loyalists of Detroit.

Mrs. La Force's Petition to Haldimand is still extant. Canadian Archives, B. 217, p. 116. Her
name is included in the list of women and children remaining at Montreal, the list being dated
Quebec, September 11, 1782, and she being given as of Virginia and taken June 26, 1780.

[22] The correspondence, &c., is in the Canadian Archives, B. 129, p. 221, 225; B. 159, p.
152; B. 183, p. 284. A Negro taken "horse hunting" by a party of Puttewatamies in the West
is mentioned August 16, 1782, in B. 123, p. 290. He belonged to Epharaim Hart from whom he
deserted and was taken about 20 miles up Cross Creek. I copy from a Manuscript of Powell's
in my possession which I have compared with a photostate copy of a manuscript in the Canadian
Archives.

[23] The western part of Pennsylvania is meant. This region was seething with conflicts on
a small scale between the Loyalists and the Republicans. The Indians for the most part took
the side of the former.

[24] In what is now the Province of Quebec.

[25] In 1780 Germain instructed Haldimand that "all prisoners from revolted Provinces are committed
as guilty of high treason not as prisoners of war" (Canadian Archives, B. 59, p. 54) but a
change soon took place and after some intermediate stages, Shelburne, the Home Secretary, in
April, 1782, instructed Haldimand that all American prisoners were to be held for exchange.
Canadian Archives, B. 50, p. 164.

[26] By the Ordinance of March 29, 1777, 17 George III, c. 9, the guinea was declared equivalent
to £1.3.4, Quebec Currency: this would make the price of the girl, $42.60. See note 30 post.
It is to be presumed that Powell was repaid. He nowhere complains that he was not as he certainly
would have done if he had cause to do so.

Negroes were frequently arriving in the colony and seeking aid and subsistence. For example,
we find Thomas Scott, J. P., reporting Thursday, May 17, 1781: "The Bearer John Jacob a Negro
man just arrived from Montreal has applied to me for relief in his case as set forth in the
Annexed Paper. But as I apprehend that can only be given him by His Excellency the Governor
I respectfully recommend him to His Excellency's notice." Canadian Archives, B. 100, p. 72.

[27] See Canadian Archives, B. 130, pp. 33, 34.

[28] It is more than doubtful that the prohibition of the sale of white captives by the Indians
would be productive of good. The natural result would rather be that the Indians would kill
their white captives at once or torture them to death. At the best the prisoners would in most
cases, if adults become slaves and if young be adopted into the tribe. There are numerous instances
of white captives being slain because unsaleable while the Negroes escaped death because they
found a ready market. See the story of Thomas Ridout, post, note 37. The order of Haldimand
will be found in the Canadian Archives.

[29] Remembering that Sarah Cole was bought by Campbell from the Indians at Carleton Island
(near Kingston) it seems likely that Francis Cole was her brother or some other relation. That
Adams says nothing of Sarah is not at all strange.

The Mississagua Indians occupied a great part of the territory now the Province of Ontario
and were always loyal to the British Crown.

[30] In the "Return of Prisoners whoa have requested leave to remain in the Province made at
Quebec, November 3, 1782," appear the names of "Mich. & Phoebe Roach to remain at Montreal
to receive a child with the Savages and a man at Carleton Island." These were white. The Report
of the Negroes follows. Canadian Archives, B. 163, p. 258.

[31] The York Shilling (or shilling in New York currency) was 12-1/2 cents, one eighth of a dollar.

[32] $5.00 for the rum; $3.00 for the Keggs.

[33] Canadian Archives, B. 216, pp. 14, sqq.

No proceedings seem to have been taken on this Petition and it is probable that Mr. Adams had
to stand the loss on Francis Cole the said Yankee Boy as Campbell did on Sarah Cole of Pennsylvania.

Indians were not the only slavers. As soon as the Declaration of Independence was promulgated,
if not before, Boston began to fit out privateers to prey on British trade. We read of four
privateers reported by Governor Montague as seen in the Straits of Belle Island in 1776, two
off Placentia in 1777 and in 1778 committing daily depredations on the coast of Newfoundland.
They harried the unprotected fishermen and the farmers of Newfoundland and Labrador but some
at least of them went further. Those who had demanded political freedom themselves denied even
personal freedom to others. They seized and carried away into slavery some of the unoffending
natives, the Eskimos, who were freemen and whose only crime was their helplessness. One instance
will suffice. The Minerva privateer of Boston, Captain John Grimes, Master, mounting 20 nine
pounders and manned with 160 men landed on Sandwich Bay, Labrador, at Captain George Cartwright's
station, took his brig, The Countess of Effingham, loaded her with his fish and provisions
and sent her off to Boston. Cartwright not unnaturally said: "May the Devil go with them."
"The Minerva also took away four Eskimo to be made slaves of." W. G. Gosling, Labrador, Toronto,
n. d., pp. 192, 244, 245, 333.

[34] See Canadian Archives, B. 61, p. 83, where he is called a Negro. Ibid., B. 158, p. 261,
where he is called a mulatto.

[35] Canadian Archives, B. 215, p. 236.

[36] The Definitive Treaty of Peace between the mother country and her revolted colonies, now
become the United States of America, was signed at Paris, September 3, 1783, but it had been
incubating for months before that date.

[37] It may not be out of place to give some account of the capture by Indians of Thomas Ridout,
afterwards Surveyor General and Legislative Councillor of Upper Canada. His story is given
in his own words by his granddaughter Lady Edgar in her interesting Ten Years of Upper Canada.

Thomas Ridout, born in Dorsetshire, when twenty years of age came to Georgia in 1774. After
trading for a few years he left Annapolis, Maryland, in 1787 for Kentucky with letters of introduction
from George Washington, Colonel Lee of Virginia and other gentlemen of standing. Sailing with
Mr. Purviance, his man James Black and two other men towards the Falls of the Ohio, the party
was taken by a band of about twenty Indians. Ridout was claimed by an elderly man, apparently
a chief, who protected him from injury, but could not save his hat, coat and waistcoat. Soon
he saw tied two other young men who had been taken that morning and set aside for death. Ridout
was able to secure their release. The Indians were Shawanese, Pottawatamies, Ottawas and Cherokees.
One prisoner, William Richardson Watson, said to be an Englishman but who had lived for some
years in the United States, they robbed of 700 guineas and then burnt to death. Purviance,
they beat to death but Ridout was saved by the Indian who claimed him as his own. A white man,
Nash, about twenty-two who had been taken by the Indians when a child and had become a chief,
encouraged him and told him that he would be taken to Detroit where he could ransom himself.
He was more than once within a hairsbreadth of death but at length he was brought by his master,
Kakinathucca, to his home. He was a great hunter and went every year to Detroit with his furs
for sale, taking with him his wife Metsigemawa and a Negro slave. The chief had a daughter
Altewesa, about eighteen years of age "of a very agreeable form and manners." She saved Ridout
from death from the uplifted hand of an Indian who had his hand over him ready to strike the
fatal blow with his tomahawk.

At the end of three weeks the whole village set off for the Wabash. Arriving at the Wabash
his papers were read by the interpreter, a white man who had been taken prisoner several years
before and held in captivity. The Indians were assured that Ridout was an Englishman and not
an American and they consented that he might go with his master to Detroit for ransom. The
Indians were excessively enraged at the Americans who they claimed were the cause of their
misfortunes. The preceding autumn the Americans had come to their village on the Scito River
from Kentucky and in times of profound peace and by surprise destroyed their village and many
of their people, their cattle, grain and everything they could lay their hands on.

Ridout witnessed the torture and heard the dying shrieks of an American prisoner Mitchell who
had been captured with his father Captain Mitchell on the Ohio. The father had been liberated
but the son given to a warrior who was determined to burn him.

After three or four days, Ridout's master collected his horses and peltry and with his wife
the Negro and Ridout set out for Detroit. On the way there were met other Indians among whom
was the noted Simon Girty. A council was held at which the murderer of Mitchell claimed Ridout
as his but at length Kakinathucca prevailed and Ridout's life was again spared. The murderer
asserted that he was a spy but his papers proved his innocence. The little party went on to
Fort Miami where several English and French gentlemen received Ridout with open arms. Mr. Sharpe
clothed him and a French gentlemen lent a canoe to carry the party and furs 250 miles by water
to Detroit. Reaching Detroit, which, it should be remembered, remained in British hands until
August 1796, he was received with every attention and a bed was provided for him at Government
House. The officers furnished him with money and gave him a passage to Montreal where he arrived
about the middle of July, 1788. Ridout settled in Upper Canada. In 1799, Kakinathucca and three
other Shawanese chiefs came to pay him a visit at York, (Toronto), and were hospitably treated,
the great and good Kakinathucca receiving substantial testimony of the gratitude of the man
he had saved from a death of torture.

Ridout's memorandum of the fate of the other prisoners is terribly significant: "Samuel Purviance,
Killed; Barland, Killed; Wm. R. Watson, burnt; James Black, beat to death; Symonds, burnt;
Ferguson, sold for corn; a negro woman unharmed."

CHAPTER III

AFTER THE PEACE

Early in the summer of 1782, Haldimand received orders from Sir Guy Carleton then in New York
to act only on the defensive. This was due to the negotiations for peace being on the way,
and from that time it may fairly be said that Canada was at peace.

One slave felt the movement in the air. This was Plato, an old Negro slave who had been taken
in Carleton's operations against Fort George in 1780 and brought to Montreal where he entered
the service of St. Luc, a personage in those days. Plato had belonged to a Mr. Stringer who,
the slave always asserted, never joined the rebels. But when, on November 3, 1782, there was
made by the Commissary of Prisoners at Quebec a return of the prisoners who had requested to
remain in the province, Plato's name appeared in the list. The next year he changed his mind
and on July, 17, 1783, he presented a petition to Haldimand asking him to "excuse these few
lines from a slave who would wish to go again to his own Master and Mistress." He added: "The
Gentleman I am now living with Mr. St. Luc says he is very willing to let me go with the first
party that sets out from here" (Montreal).[1] Another Negro slave Roger Vaneis (Van Ness) who
had also been taken at Fort George declined to go. He was living with Lieutenant Johnson and
was to have his freedom on serving for a time already about completed.[2]

The declaration of peace, however, brought many more slaves into Canada. Even before the treaty
was signed some of those who had kept their faith to England's crown and desired to live and
die under the old flag made their way to the north. After the peace when the cause was lost,
many thousands came. Many of these had been slaveholders and they brought their slaves with
them. Some settled in what was afterwards Lower Canada in Sorel and elsewhere, some in the
upper country, around Cornwall, Kingston, and Niagara, and a very few crossed the river at
Detroit.[3]

Returns made about the time show a large number of slaves--euphemistically disguised as servants
in some cases. A Report of 1784 shows 14 near Cataraqui (Kingston). Another of the same year
for the new townships on the River St. Lawrence beginning at Township No. 1, on Lake St. Francis
and running upwards, gives

  1st Battn. late King's R. Rifles                 25
    Tps. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

  Part Major Jessup's Corps                        12
    Tps. 6, 7 & pt. 8.

  2nd Battn.
    Tps. 3, 4, Cataraqui                           10

  Capt. Grass, Party
    Tp. 1 Cataraqui (apparently none)

  Part Major Jessup's Corps
    Tp. 2 Cataraqui                                12

  Major Rogers' Corps                              14
    Tp. 3 Cataraqui

  Major VanAlstine's Party of Loyalists[4]         17
                                                  ---
                                                   90

In the return of the disbanded troops and Loyalists at Sorel the same year, the number of servants
is given at 5; none near Chambly, 3 about St. John's, 40 about Montreal, and 8 about Lachine.[5]
In the Niagara district in 1782 the blunt word "slave"[6] is used and the number given at only
one. In 1784 the first census in which slaves were counted was made. In the District of Quebec
there were 88, in the District of Trois Rivières 4, and in the District of Montreal 212. In
what was afterwards the Province of Lower Canada there were in all 304.

The sale and marriage of Negro slaves continued to be[7] recorded. For example, there are extant
two notarial acts of sale of a female Negro slave called Peg, June 9, 1783 from Elias Smith
to James Finlay and May 14, 1788 from Finlay to Patrick Langan. In each case the price was
£50[8]. On January 20, 1785 there took place at Christ Church the marriage of Francis and Jane
both slaves to Colonel Campbell. On March 9, 1785, there was a sale of a female Negro slave
named Sarah, by James Morison, merchant, as agent for Hugh McAdam, of Saratoga, New York, to
Charles Lepallieur, Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas. The price was 36 louis. On April 1,
1785 Elizah Cady of New York, sold to William Ward of Vermont, four Negroes: Tobi 24 years,
Joseph 20 years, Sarah 19 years and a child six months, the price being 250 louis. On April
26, William Ward sold three of these slaves at Montreal to William Campbell--that is Tobi,
Sarah and the child for $425. On May 6, William Campbell sold these three slaves to Dr. Charles
Blake for $300.

On September 5, there followed the sale of a Pani slave called Charlotte, aged eighteen years,
by Dame Marie-Josephe Deguire, widow of Jean-Etienne Waden, to Jacob Schieffelin, auctioneer,
for 21 louis. The said slave had been brought from Upper Canada by Mr. Waden in 1776. To increase
her value it was said that the slave had had the measles and the small-pox and was not scrofulous
nor had any other defect.

On January 22, 1786, there took place at Christ Church the marriage of the slaves, Thomas York
and Margaret McCloud. On March 17, 1787, Samuel Mix, Merchant of Saint-Jean on the Richelieu,
sold to Louis Gauthier, merchant tanner of the Faubourg Saint Laurent, a female Negro slave
named Rose aged 14 years for the sum of 40 louis. On June 6, 1789, Charles Lepallieur resold
to James Morison the female Negro slave Sarah whom he had sold to him in 1785. The price was
36 louis. On the sixth of June James Morison sold the same Sarah for 50 louis to Joseph Andrews,
at a profit of 14 louis. On April 3, 1790 there was a sale by Oliver Hasting to M. le chevalier
Chs. Boucher de la Bruère, de Boucherville, of a Negro of the name of Antoine, aged eight years
and a half. The price was 90 minots de blé. On September 9, 1791 followed the sale at auction
of the female Negro slave Rose, aged 19 years, by William Matthews, merchant of Sorel, to Lambert
Saint-Omer, Merchant of Montreal, for 38 louis and 5 shillings. This slave had already belonged
to S. Mix as set forth above.

Alexander Campbell writing from Montreal August 16, 1784, to Major Mathews says that having
sent to Albany to recover some of his debts, Adam Fondea of Cauchnawago of Tryon's County gave
as an excuse for not paying his debt that a certain Negro woman named Dine born in his own
family and his actual property was taken away from his house by Captain Samuel Anderson of
Sir John Johnson's First Batallion, and was still detained by him as his property. Fondea being
willing to pay the debt had sent a power of attorney to take his slave, sell her and pay the
debt with the proceeds. Campbell asked that the governor should order Dine to be seized and
sold as no Magistrate had the power or the inclination to give such an order. No attention
seems to have been paid to this request.

On September 15, 1784, James Doty writing also from Montreal says that "with some difficulty
to myself I have ... purchased a Negro boy from Lieut. Clench of the Indian Department which
boy has been allowed his provisions drawn at Cataraqui (Kingston) from the time of his first
coming into the Province with other Loyalists from N. York last year." He asked to have this
allowance continued. There was no answer. The report of settlers near Cataraqui for this year
gave 3 "servants" and near Oswegatchie 11. But the importation of Slaves was not encouraged
indiscriminately.[10]

The accustomed abuses were not wanting. In an action Poirée v. Lagord in the Court of Common
Pleas at Montreal July 1788, it was proved that Lagord had sold to Poirée in September, 1787,
a free Negro for £37.6. He was ordered to repay the price with interest. Another and more celebrated
case was that of the Negro Nero. In 1780 Haldimand sent a detachment of troops accompanied
by Mohawk Indians to attack Ballstown and the Saratoga region. They captured a number of Negroes
some of them the slaves of Colonel Gordon of the American service. These were claimed by the
white men and Indians, and as was the custom, they were brought to Montreal and sold. One Negro
called Dublin was known to be free. He was liberated and enlisted in the army. Lieutenant Patrick
Langan acted as agent for the Indians and sold Nero to John Mittberger for £60 December 5,
1780. Claiming the Negro as a prisoner of war General Allan Maclean imprisoned him "in the
public Provot." He made his escape and went to his master Colonel Gordon and Mittleberger sued
Langan in 1788 for the price and for damages. In January 1789 he was awarded judgment for the
£60 and interest.[11] About the same time Rossiter Hoyle, attorney for the trustees of Mary
Jacobs, obtained a judgment in the Court of Common Pleas at Montreal that Donald Fisher and
Elizabeth his wife should forthwith deliver "two negro women, the one named Silvia Jane, the
other Ruth Jane," which said Negro women, they had sold to Mary Jacobs by a notarial deed for
£50 or pay £50 with costs.[12]

There are also in existence advertisements for the sale of Negroes. In the Quebec Gazette of
March 18, 1784, is the advertisement of the sale of a female Negro slave, price to be obtained
on inquiry of Madame Perrault. In the issue of March 25, 1785, there is advertised for sale
a Negro of about twenty-five years of age who has had the smallpox. There appear also a few
advertisements for runaway slaves.

There arose also some complaints like the following: In 1784 there was presented at Quebec
to Sir Frederick Haldimand, Governor in Chief, a petition from John Black showing that the
petitioner hath served as a seaman in His Majesty's service on board the sloop, Happy Couple
of New York for which he had a certificate to shew, and was then living servant to Mrs. Martin,
the wife of Captain Martin of this place, who wanted to deprive him of his liberty and humbly
begged His Excellency to grant him a passport.[13]

The immigration into Canada of those who had been British subjects was ardently desired by
the home authorities. To encourage this immigration, the Imperial Parliament in 1790 passed
an Act[14] which had some effect in increasing the slave population. After the division of
the Old Province of Quebec into Upper and Lower Canada in 1791 the course of slavery was different.[15]

It seems appropriate to close this chapter by adding a number of available advertisements including
some of runaway apprentices.[16]

     Il s'est enfui de chez les Soussignés, la nuit du 12 du courant,
     Un Nègre Esclave nommé POMPÉ d'environ cinq pieds cinq pouces
     d'hauteur, robuste, il a été acheté derniérement de M. Perras,
     négociant de cette ville; il avoit sur lui quand il a décampé un
     gilet et des culottes brunes: Celui qui le ramenera aura HUIT
     PIASTRES de Récompense, et les frais raisonnables qu'il aura
     faits. Quiconque le retirera chez lui sera poursuivi suivant la
     dernière rigueur de la Loi, par

                           JOHNSTON & PURSS.

     RUN-AWAY from the subscribers, in the Night of the 12th inst. a
     Sailor Negro Slave named POMPEY, about 5 Feet, 5 Inches high,
     and is Robust; he was lately bought of Mr. Perras, Merchant in
     this Town; had on when he went away a brown Jacket and Breeches.
     Whoever brings him to the Subscribers shall have EIGHT DOLLARS
     Reward and reasonable Charges paid. Any Person Harbouring him
     will be prosecuted according to the utmost Rigor of the Law, by

                           JOHNSTON & PURSS.

     Run-away from the Subscriber, living in Quebec, on the Evening of
     the 9th Instant, an indented Servant Woman, named Catharine
     Osburn, about 20 or 21 years of Age, red fac'd, very fat and
     rough skin'd, about 5 Feet 5 Inches high, a little mark'd with
     the Small-Pox; She had on a purple colour'd Stuff Jacket flower'd
     with green and white, a blue thick Kersey Petticoat, blue
     Stockings with White clocks, an old red Cloak; and took with her
     two new Shifts of good Dowlas Linen, seven plain and two lac'd
     caps. She was inticed away by two discharg'd soldiers, John
     Linsey and John McDonald, said to be going for New England.
     McDonald was formerly Turnkey at the Gaol; they were both of the
     60th Regiment. Whoever takes them up, and secures them, so that
     they may be brought to Justice, shall receive Five Dollars Reward
     for each of them; and whoever secures the Woman, or brings her to
     her Master, shall receive Five Dollars Reward, and all reasonable
     Charges, paid by

                                             WILLIAM LAING.

     N. B. All Persons are forbid to harbour or carry any of them off.
     It is thought that they are still harbour'd in and about this
     City Quebec, 14th March, 1767.--Quebec Gazette, 1767.

     Whereas William Russey, an article'd Servant to Mr. Suckling, of
     this City, hath lately run-away, and absented himself from the
     Service of his said Master: If any Person will give Information
     to the said Mr. Suckling of the said Servant, so that he may be
     apprehended and brought before John Collins, Esq; one of His
     Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the District of Quebec,
     shall, upon such Apprehension and Bringing, receive Eight Dollars
     Reward, to be paid by me the Subscriber: And any Person or
     Persons who shall, after this Notice, employ, harbour or conceal
     the said Servant, will be prosecuted with the utmost Severity of
     the Law, by me,

                                             GEO. SUCKLING.

     QUEBEC, 14th April, 1767.

                                            --Quebec Gazette, 1767.

     Run-away, from James Crofton, Vintner in Montreal, the Third of
     May, 1767, a Mulatto Negro Slave, named Andrew, born in Maryland
     Twenty-three Years of Age, middle sized, very active and
     sprightly, has a remarkable large Mouth, thick lips, his Fingers
     crooked, speaks good English and French, a little Dutch and
     Earse; is supposed to have with him forged Certificates of his
     Freedom, and Passes. Whoever takes up and secures the said Negro,
     so that his Master may have him again, shall have Eight Dollars
     Reward, besides all reasonable charges, paid by Mr. Henry Boone,
     Merchant, at Quebec, or James Crofton, at Montreal.

     N.B. He is remarkable for being clean dres'd and wearing a
     Handkerchief tied round his Head: is very well known to all the
     Gentlemen at Quebec, that has been in Montreal, and who have used
     my House, and was Three Months with Mr. Joseph Howard, of
     Montreal Merchant, last Summer in Quebec.--Quebec Gazette,
     1767.

                         TO BE SOLD,

     For no Fault, the Owner having no employ for him,

     A likely Negro fellow, about 23 or 24 Years of Age; understands
     Cooking, waiting at Table, and Houshold Work, &c, &c. He speaks
     both English and French. For further Particulars enquire of the
     Printers.--Quebec Gazette, 1770.

     From the Subscriber, on Sunday morning the 24th ult, about four
     o'Clock, a Negro Lad named NEMO, born in Albany, near eighteen
     years of age, about five feet high full round fac'd, a little
     marked with the Smallpox, speaks English and French tolerably; he
     had on when he went away a double-breasted Jacket of strip'd
     flannel, old worsted Stockings, and a pair of English Shoes. Also
     a Negro Wench named CASH, twenty-six years old, about 5 feet 8
     inches high, speaks English and French very fluently; she carried
     with her a considerable quantity of Linen and other valuable
     Effects not her own; and as she has also taken with her a large
     bundle of wearing apparel belonging to herself, consisting of a
     black satin Cloak, Caps, Bonnets, Ruffles, Ribbons, six or seven
     Petticoats, a pair of old Stays, and many other articles of value
     which cannot be ascertained, it is likely she may change her
     dress. All persons are hereby forewarned from harbouring or
     aiding them to escape, and Masters of vessels from carrying them
     off, as they may depend on being prosecuted to the utmost rigour
     of the Law; and whoever will give information where they are
     harboured; or bring them back to the Subscriber at Quebec, or to
     Mr. George Ross, Merchant at Sorel, shall have TEN DOLLARS Reward
     for each, and all reasonable charges.

                                             HUGH RITCHIE.

     N. B. The Lad was seen at Sorel on Friday morning the 29th ult.
     and there is reason to believe they are both lurking thereabout.

     QUEBEC, November 2, 1779.

                                             --Quebec Gazette, 1779.

     Ran-Away on Sunday the 24th of October, JOHN BARCLAY, an
     Apprentice, aged 15 years, small of his age, has short black and
     lank Hair, dark hazle Eyes, good complexion a little freckled,
     speaks good English and a little French: had on when he went away
     a light grey Coat and Waistcoat, and stript cotton Trowsers with
     leather Breeches under them. Whoever will apprehend him or give
     information so that he may be apprehended, shall receive Five
     Guineas Reward from

                                   SHOOLBRED & BARCLAY.

     QUEBEC, November 2, 1779.

                                             --Quebec Gazette, 1779.

     Run Away from his bail, an indented servant man named Christian
     Miller, born in Germany, by trade a Tailor, he is about 5 feet 9
     or 10 inches in stature, well made, middling long black hair,
     speaks English tolerably well, he was formerly a servant to a
     German Hessian officer, one Mr. Seiffort, Lieutenant in Capt.
     Schoels regiment, has very much the art and behaviour of a sham
     beau and has a variety of cloaths, viz. a Maroon Coat, a brown
     ditto, lined with light blue silk, the one had Gold the other
     Silver Buttons, a brown Great Coat and a variety of Waistcoats
     and Breeches: Whoever will apprehend the said Run-away, so as the
     subscriber may have him in custody shall receive FIVE GUINEAS
     reward, over and above any reasonable expences; and all masters
     of vessels, officers of the army and others, are forwarn'd not to
     harbour or entertain him nor to be aiding in his escape, on pain
     of being prosecuted as the law directs.

     Note. If apprehended at Quebec, apply to Mr. Wm. Laing, Merchant,
     or to the subscriber at Montreal.

                                        (Signed) JOHN MITTLEBERGER.

     MONTREAL, 4th July, 1782.

                                             Quebec Gazette 1782.

     Ran Away from the subscriber, on Thursday evening the 21st
     instant, an Apprentice Boy named JOSEPH POWERS, a Shoemaker,
     about fifteen years of age, of a fair complexion short hair,
     speaks English and French, had on when he went away a Blanket
     Coat, light blue Waistcoat and Breeches very dirty, a Check Shirt
     much wore, a round Hat, and a pair of Slippers: this is to give
     notice to the public that they are not to harbour the said
     Apprentice in their houses or families, otherwise they will be
     prosecuted as the law directs.

                                      ALEXR. WALLACE.

     QUEBEC, November 27, 1782.

                                             --Quebec Gazette, 1782.

     Ran-Away from the Printing-Office, On Monday night last, an
     Apprentice Lad named Duncan M'Donell, about 19 years of age,
     about five feet five inches high, of a fresh complexion; speaks
     English, French and Erse: all persons are hereby forwarn'd from
     harbouring him, as they may depend on being prosecuted to the
     utmost rigour of the Law, and whoever will bring him back shall
     have One Guinea Reward from the

                                        PRINTER.

     QUEBEC, April 17, 1783.

                                             --Quebec Gazette, 1783.

                              TO BE SOLD.

     A NEGRO WENCH about 18 years of age, who came lately from New
     York with the Loyalists. She has had the Small Pox--The Wench has
     a good character and is exposed to sale only from the owner
     having no use for her at present.

     Likewise will be disposed of a handsome Bay Mare.

     For particulars enquire of the Printer.

                                             --Quebec Gazette, 1783.

     A Gentleman going to England has for sale, a Negro-wench, with
     her child, about 26 years of age, who understands thoroughly
     every kind of house-work, particularly washing and cookery: And a
     stout Negro--boy, 13 years old: Also a good horse, cariole and
     harness. For particulars enquire at Mr. William Roxburgh's
     Upper-town, Quebec, 10th May, 1785.

                                             --Quebec Gazette, 1785.

                         To be SOLD together.

     A Handsome Negro Man and a beautiful Negro Woman married to one
     another: the man from twenty-three to twenty-four years of age,
     between five and a half and six English feet high: the woman from
     twenty-two to twenty-three years of age; both of a good
     constitution. For further information, such as may be desirous of
     purchasing them must apply to Mr. Pinguet, in the Lower-town of
     Quebec, Merchant.

                                             --Quebec Gazette, 1788.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Canadian Archives, B. 163, p. 258: ibid., B. 163, p. 324.

[2] Ibid., B. 163, p. 258.

[3] As Britain kept possession of Detroit until 1796, many United Empire Loyalists settled
on the west side of the river at that point. A few remained on the east side of the Niagara
River as Fort Niagara was held in the same way.

[4] Canadian Archives, B. 168, p. 42.

Different detachments of disbanded regulars on Tp. 5 Cataraqui, detachment of Germans under
Baron Kritzenstein on Tp. 5 Cataraqui and Rangers of 6 Nations Department settled with the
Mohawks on Bay of Quinte return no servants. Canadian Archives, B. 168, p. 42. Report dated
Montreal, July 1, 1784.

[5] Canadian Archives, B. 168, pp. 44, 47, 48, 51, 55, 61, 63, 67, 68, 71, 77, September, 1784.
See also B. 168, pp. 81, 88, 92, 95, 99, 100, 101, 102. These may be found in the Report for
1891 of the Canadian Archives Department, pp. 5-20.

[6] Ibid., B. 169, p. 1. There is a column for "Male Slaves" and one for "Female Slaves." Thomas
McMicken has the proud monopoly, he had one male slave. The other fifteen householders had
none. But then he had 20 hogs to look after and no one else had more than 14; most many fewer.

[7] Canadian Archives, B. 225, 2. p. 406. Massicotte B. R. H. ut supra.

[8] Lafontaine ut supra, pp. 21, 22.

[9] Those in the text are taken from Mr. Massicotte's Article B. R. H. ut supra. The letter
of Campbell is Can. Arch., B. 162, p. 351. That of Doty, ibid., p. 365: the Report is ibid.,
p. 385.

[10] In a letter from Henry Hope, Lieutenant-Governor dated Quebec, November 6, 1786, to Captain
Enys, 29th Reg't., we read:

"I am by desire of His Excellency the Commander in Chief (Lord Dorchester) to require that
no negro slaves shall be permitted on any account to pass into this Province by the Post under
your command."

[11] Lafontaine ut supra, pp. 22, 23, 24, 44, 45, 46. Le Monde Illustré December 9, 1893.

[12] Lafontaine ut supra, p. 43. The advertisements spoken of are on p. 21.

[13] Can. Arch., B. 217, p. 397. What if anything was done on the petition does not appear.

[14] (1790) 30 George III, c. 27.

[16] These I owe to the kindness of the officers of the Canadian Archives Department of Ottawa.

CHAPTER IV

LOWER CANADA

The Province of Lower Canada continued the former law--in criminal matters, the English law,
in civil matters the French law. It was not long before the status of the slave became a burning
issue. At the first session of the first Parliament[1] of the new Province Lower Canada, Mr.
P. L. Panet, a member of the House of Assembly, moved (January 28, 1793) for leave to introduce
a bill for the abolition of slavery in the province and leave was unanimously given. On the
twenty-sixth of February, Panet introduced a bill pursuant to leave given, and it was read
in French and in English. On the eighth of March, Mr. B. Panet proposed the first reading of
the bill and it was so read. On the nineteenth of April Mr. P. L. Panet moved that the bill
be taken into consideration by the Committee of the Whole on the following Tuesday. The motion
was debated and Mr. Debonne moved an amendment to table the bill, which was carried 31 to 3.[2]
There was no further effort toward legislative dealing with slavery until 1799.[3]

The sale of Negroes continued as indicated by the records.[4] On the twelfth of May, 1794,
Francois Boucher de la Périère and Marie Pecaudy de Contrecoeur, his wife, gave liberty to
James, their Negro slave, aged 21 years, on condition that he should live in the most remote
parts of the upper country. If, however, he left those parts, he should return to slavery.
On the fifteenth of December, 1795, Frs. Dumóulin, merchant of Bout de l'ile sold to Myer Michaels,
merchant, a mulatto named Prince, aged 18 years, for the price of 50 louis.

On the sixteenth of January, 1796 there was found a bill of sale of a female Negro slave named
Rose, dated January 15, 1794, the vendor being P. Byrne, the purchaser Simon Meloche, for the
price of 360 shillings, deposited with the Notary J. P. Delisle. On the third of September
John Shuter by notarial act promised his Negro, Jack, to give him his liberty in six years,
if, in the meantime, he served him faithfully. Later, on November 2, 1803, Shuter declared
that Jack had fulfilled his obligation, and he accordingly emancipated him. On the thirteenth
of September, J. B. Routier, merchant of the Faubourg Saint-Antoine, sold to Louis Charles
Foucher, Solicitor-General of His Majesty, Jean Louis, a mulatto, aged 27 years, height 5'
10", the price being 1300 shillings. Routier declared that he had bought Jean Louis as well
as his mother at the Island of Saint-Domingue in 1778. On the twenty-third of November César,
a free Negro of New London, Connecticut, engaged for ten years as a domestic to Dr. John Aussem,
living in the Faubourg Saint Antoine, with a salary of 30 louis in advance. Dr. Aussem reserved
to himself the right to sell the services of his domestic to whomsoever he pleased during the
ten years.

On the twenty-fifth of May, 1797 Dame Marie-Catherine Tessier, Widow of Antoine Janisse, in
his lifetime a voyager, liberated her slave Marie Antoine de Pade, an Indian, aged 23 years,
in recognition of her services which she had rendered her, and in addition gave her a trousseau.
On the twenty-fifth of August Thomas Blaney, gold painter, sold to Thomas John Sullivan, hotel-keeper
of Montreal, the Negro Manuel about 33 years old for 36 louis, payable in monthly instalments
of three louis each. On the same date and before the same notary, Sullivan promised the slave
to liberate him in 5 years, if he served him faithfully. On the twenty-second of November George
Westphall, formerly Lieutenant of the 6th Regiment, who owed 20 louis to Richard Dillon, proprietor
of the Montreal Hotel in security for payment, delivered to his creditor a mulatress, a slave
called Ledy, aged 26 years. She was to work with Mr. Dillon until he was repaid what was owed
him by Westphall for principal and interest.

In the year 1793, there came up in the Court of Appeal at Quebec a case involving slavery but
nothing was really decided. The plaintiff Jacob Smith sued Peter McFarlane in the Court of
Common Pleas for taking away his wife and her clothes and detaining them. McFarlane claimed
that Smith's wife was his slave. The Court of Common Pleas gave the plaintiff judgment for
£100 and McFarlane appealed to the Court of Appeal. The Court pointed out that it was for McFarlane
to prove that Smith's wife was his slave and that he had not done so: but as there had been
error in the proceedings the case was sent back to be retried. It is important to notice that
the court considered that if McFarlane could prove that Smith's wife was his slave, he had
the right to take her away.[5]

A lawsuit also arose over the Negro Manuel (Allen) sold August 25, 1797, to Thomas John Sullivan.
When Blaney sold him for £36 Sullivan paid down only half and the balance with interest £30.15.2
was sued for in the Court of King's Bench at Montreal in 1798. Sullivan pleaded that Manuel
was not the plaintiff's slave but a free Negro and that he had run away March, 1798, at Montreal
where he continued to be: and Sullivan claimed to be reimbursed the £18 which he had paid.
On the sixth of October Manuel himself came into the suit and claimed that "by the laws of
this land he is not a slave but a freeman." Evidence was given that he had absconded from Sullivan's
service alleging as a reason that he was a freeman, "that other blacks were free and that he
wanted to be free also." In February, 1799, the court held that no title or right to sell Manuel
has been shown and dismissed the action directing the return of the £18.[6]

In 1797 the Imperial Act of 1732 for the sale of Negroes and other hereditaments for debt in
the American Plantations was repealed so far as it related to Negroes[7] but this made no difference
in their status. The courts, however, were becoming astute in favor of assisting those claiming
freedom. In February, 1798, a certain female Negro slave called Charlotte belonging to Miss
Jane Cook left her mistress and refused to return. On information laid she was committed by
the magistrates to prison. She sued out a writ of habeas corpus from the Court of King's Bench
at Montreal and Chief Justice, James Monk, ordered her release. On this becoming known, the
Negroes of the city and district of Montreal became very threatening in their demeanor. Many
renounced all service and one woman called Jude who had been bought at Albany in 1795 for £80
by Elias Smith, a merchant of Montreal, left her master and was committed to prison in the
same way by the magistrates. Being brought up in the Court of King's Bench at Montreal on habeas
corpus, Chief Justice Monk discharged her March 8, 1798 without deciding the question of slavery.
The Chief Justice declared that he would set free every Negro, articled apprentice, or domestic
servant who should be committed to prison in this way by the magistrates. But this was because
the statute in force at that time[8] gave power to the magistrates to cause such due correction
and punishment to be ministered to an apprentice as they thought fit and this empowered them
to commit apprentices to the house of correction as a punishment, but it gave no authority
to commit to a common gaol or other prison.

These decisions alarmed the owners of slaves: and a petition from many inhabitants of Montreal
was presented to the House of Assembly April 19, 1799, by Joseph Papineau. This petition set
forth the ordinance of the Intendant Raudot in 1709[9] the Act of 1732,[10] that of 1790,[11]
the facts concerning Charlotte, Jude and the other Negroes, the judgments of Chief Justice
Monk, and the absence of any house of correction. It prayed that an Act should be passed that
until a house of correction should be established every slave, Panis or Negro who should desert
the service of his master, might be proceeded against in the same way as apprentices in England,
and be committed to the common gaol of the District; and further that no one should aid or
receive a deserting slave or that there should be passed a law declaring that there was no
slavery in the Province or such other provision concerning slaves should be made as the House
should deem convenient.[12] The petition was laid on the table.

In 1799 there was passed an Act providing houses of correction for several districts, but no
provision was made concerning slavery. Perhaps the wisdom of this house proved insufficient
to devise any "provision convenable."

The next year another petition was brought in by Papineau from certain inhabitants of the District
of Montreal saying that doubts had been entertained how far property in Negroes and Panis was
sustainable under the laws of the province. They cited Raudot's ordinance, the recognition
of slavery for years, and stated that in a recent case the Court of King's Bench at Montreal
in discharging a slave of Mr. Fraser's who had been committed to the house of correction by
three justices of the peace, had expressed the opinion that the Act of 1797[13] had repealed
all the laws concerning slavery. They asked that the House should pass an act declaring that
with certain restrictions slavery did exist in the province and investing the owners with full
property in the slave; and that this chamber should also pass such laws and regulations in
the matter as should be thought advisable.[14]

The petition on motion of Messrs. Papineau and Black was referred to a committee of five, Papineau,
Grant, Craigie, Cuthbert and Dumas. The committee reported and Cuthbert introduced on April
30, 1800, a bill to regulate the condition of slaves, to limit the term of their slavery and
to prevent further introduction of slavery in the province. The bill passed the second reading
and was referred to the Committee of the Whole, but got no further. The next year Cuthbert
introduced a similar bill with the same result, and again in 1803. The reason for the failure
of these attempts was that any legislation on slavery would in view of the decisions of the
courts be reactionary and change for the worse the condition of the slave.

The most celebrated of these decisions was in the case of Robin, alias Robert, a black. James
Fraser, a Loyalist of the colony of New York, became the owner of Robin a Negro man in 1773,
before the American Revolution. The colonies were successful and provisional articles of peace
were signed November 30, 1782. Congress proclaimed them April 11, 1783 and it was almost inevitable
that they would become a permanent and definitive treaty. Article VII provided for the speedy
evacuation by the British forces of territory to be allotted to the United States of America
"without carrying away any negroes or other property of the American inhabitants." There was
allowed full time for everyone who desired to live under the British flag to leave New York.
James Fraser made up his mind to go to Nova Scotia and obtained a pass from William Walton,
the Magistrate of Police of the city, for his slave Robin and another, Lydia, September 23,
1783.[15] Fraser went to Shelborne, Nova Scotia, and the following year in September he went
to "the Island of St. John,"[16] accompanied by Robin who was and acknowledged himself to be
Fraser's property. Afterwards Fraser brought him to the Current of Saint Mary near the city
of Montreal where Fraser became a farmer. Robin, infected with the pernicious doctrines of
freedom then rather prevalent left Fraser, March 19, 1799, and went to live with Richard, a
tavern keeper in Montreal. Fraser laid an Information before Charles Blake, a justice of the
peace, and January 31, 1800, Charles Blake, Robert Jones and James Dunlop, justices of the
peace of the District of Montreal committed Robin to the "Common Gaol and House of Correction
at Montreal" with a warrant to Jacob Kuhn "Keeper of His Majesty's Jail and House of Correction"
to receive "a negroman named Robert who refuses to go home to his owner and him safely to keep
till he may be discharged or otherwise dealt with according to law."

In the February Term 1800 of the Court of King's Bench for the District of Montreal[17] Mr.
A. Perry, his advocate, obtained a writ of habeas corpus and on the tenth of February the black
was produced in court. Mr. Perry for the black and Mr. Kerr for James Fraser presented their
arguments upon this day and on the thirteenth of February, and after consideration and consultation
the court five days later ordered the discharge of Robin alias Robert from his confinement
under the warrant.[18]

The decision proceeded on the ground that the Act of 1797 which repealed the provision for
the sale of Negroes to answer a judgment had revoked all the laws concerning slavery. Remembering
that the Act of 1732 was intended to change the common law of England which did not allow the
sale of land under a writ of execution, fieri facias, it should probably be considered that
the sole effect of the repeal of the act as regards Negroes was to exempt them from sale under
fieri facias, without affecting their status. And it is well known that slavery continued in
the West India Islands and in Upper Canada long after the Act of 1797.

The effect of the decisions while not technically abolishing slavery rendered it innocuous.
The slave could not be compelled to serve longer than he would, and the burden of slavery was
rather on the master who must support his slave than on the slave who might leave his master
at will. The legislature refusing to interfere, the law of slavery continued in this state
until the year 1833 when the Imperial Parliament passed the celebrated act which forever abolished
slavery in British Colonies from and after August 1, 1834.[19]

As Lower Canada passed no legislation on slavery, the extradition of fugitives was made impossible
and Canada became therefore an asylum for the oppressed in the United States. Before the Act
of 1833 there was one instance of a request from the Secretary of State of the United States
for the delivery up of a slave. The matter was referred to the Executive Council by Sir James
Kempt, the Administrator of the Government.[20] The report of the Executive Council shows the
view held that "the Law of Canada does not admit a slave to be a subject of property."

[2] In the sister province a bill to the same effect was more fortunate in the same year a
little later. This will be considered in the next chapter.

[3] In a work of some authority, Bibaud's Pantheon Canadien, page 211, it is said that "Joseph
Papineau, Notary Public, Member of the Legislature Assembly for Upper Quebec presented about
1797 a petition of the citizens of Montreal for the abolition of slavery." If that be the case
there was nothing done on the petition, but it seems probable that the author refers to the
petition of 1799 spoken of later in the Text.

[4] From Massicotte ut supra in Le Bulletin des Recherches Historiques, Vol. II, p. 136, it
is said: "Une annonce publiée dans la Gazette de Quèbec vers: cette époque (i.e., 1797) represente
un nègre courant à toutes jambes. 'Il est offert une recompense honnête a qui remenera a son
maître marchand de Trois Rivières son esclave fugitif' Ce pauvre diable pensait sans doute
que la loi qu'on proposait pourrait pas d'effet retroactif."

[5] Lafontaine ut supra, pp. 49-51.

[6] Lafontaine ut supra, pp. 52 & 56.

[7] For the Act of 1732 (5 George II, c. 7). The repealing Act was (1797) 37 George III, c.
119 (Imp.).

[8] The Statute of 1562, 5 Elizabeth, c. 4, not repealed until 1814, 54 George III, c. 96 (Imp.).

[9] See ante, p. 304.

[10] Ibid., p. 305.

[11] Ibid., p. 310.

[12] "Ou qu'une loi puisse être passée déclarant qu'il n'y a point d'esclavage dans la Province;
ou telle autre provision concernant les esclaves que cette Chambre, dans sa sagesse, jugera
convenable." The Act of 1799 providing for houses of correction (really the common gaol) was
39 George II, c. 6 (L. C.), and was to be in force for two years. It was amended and continued
for four years by the Act (1802) 42 George III, c. 6 (L. C.) and again by (1806) 46 George
III, c. 6 (L. C.), until January 1, 1810 when it expired.

[13] See ante, note 7. The effect of this Act was probably not as stated. The slave of Mr.
Fraser's was Robin alias Robert to be spoken of infra, page.

[14] The two reasons given for the request are the familiar ones. The petitioners had paid
large sums for the slaves who had left them and "they are all wholly convinced that that class
of men really lazy leading an idle and abandoned life would attempt to commit crime." The armistice
had been concluded January 20, 1783. In the definitive treaty, Article VII contains the same
provisions as to Negroes as the corresponding article in the preliminary articles.

[16] Isle St. Jean so called from about the end of the sixteenth century until 1798, when it
was given the name Prince Edward Island out of compliment to Prince Edward, Duke of Kent (father
of Queen Victoria), then commanding the British Forces in North America. The name it still retains.

[17] The Judges were James Monk, Chief Justice and Pierre Louis Panet and Isaac Ogden, Puisne
Justices.

[18] Lafontaine ut supra, pp. 56-63. It has often been said that it was Chief Justice Osgoode
who gave the death blow to slavery in Lower Canada. For example, in James P. Taylor's Cardinal
facts of Canadian History, Toronto, 1899, on p. 88 we find a statement that in 1803, Chief
Justice Osgoode in Montreal declared slavery inconsistent with the laws of Canada. But Osgoode
became Chief Justice of the Province in July, 1794. Continuing as such Chief Justice, he became
Chief of the Court of King's Bench for the District of Quebec later on in the same year on
the coming into force of the Act of 1794, 34 George III, c. 6, which erected two Courts of
King's Bench one for each District. James Monk became Chief Justice of the Court of King's
Bench for the District of Montreal, which position he retained until 1825. Osgoode resigned
his position and went to England in 1801 and lived in England until his death in 1824: he was
never Chief Justice at Montreal.

[19] One result of these decisions was to induce the escape of Negro slaves from Upper Canada
where slavery was lawful to Lower Canada. For example one hears of two of the three slaves
whom Captain Allan brought with him into Upper Canada from New Jersey running away to Montreal.
The owner pursued them to Montreal and searched for them in vain for ten days. The third slave,
a woman, he sold with her child.

The Statute is (1833) 3, 4, William IV, c. 73 (Imp.). One result of this Act is exceedingly
curious and to the philosophical lawyer exceedingly interesting. Slaves which had been real
estate, as soon as the act was passed ceased to be such, and the benefit to be obtained from
their labor until fully enfranchised and the money to be paid by the legislature as compensation
for their freedom became personal estate. See the luminous judgment of the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council in Richard v. Attorney General of Jamaica, Moore's Report of Cases in
the Judicial Committee (1848), Vol. 6, p. 381.

In a note on p. 35 of a paper in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada, 1900, on
La Declaration de 1732 M. L'Abbé Auguste Gosselin, Litt.D., F.R.S., Can., we read:

"On trouve dans le livre de Mgr. Tanguay A travers les Registres, p. 157, une notice sur l'Esclavage
au Canada, avec un 'Tableau des familles possédant des esclaves de la nation des Panis' L'esclavage
ne fut definitivement aboli par une loi, en Canada, qu'en 1833."

The learned author does not mean that there was legislation on slavery in Canada in 1833, or
that it was Canadian legislation which abolished slavery; for such was not the case.

[20] From September 8, 1828, to October 19, 1830.

[21] Canadian Archives, State K, p. 406.

CHAPTER V

UPPER CANADA--EARLY PERIOD

The first Parliament of the Province of Upper Canada sat at Newark formerly and now Niagara-on-the-Lake,
September 17, 1792. Many of them brought their slaves as well as their other property to the
new land. There came up to the Executive Council the complaint that a Negro girl thus named
had been cruelly forced across the border and sold in the United States by one Vroomen. Much
indignation was expressed by both citizens and officials. Simcoe had discovered that there
was much resistance to the slave law. There were many plausible arguments of the demand for
labor and the difficulty of obtaining "Servants to cultivate Lands." "Some possessed of Negroes,"
said he, "knowing that it was very questionable whether any subsisting Law did authorize Slavery
and having purchased several taken in war by the Indians at small prices wished to reject the
Bill entirely; others were desirous to supply themselves by allowing the importation for two
years. The returns of the census of 1784 show that very many of the 212 slaves in the District
of Montreal, which then extended from the Rivers St. Maurice and Godfrey to the Detroit River
de jure and to the Mississippi de facto, were the property of the United Empire Loyalists on
the St. Lawrence in territory which in 1791 became part of the new Province of Upper Canada.

The settlement crept up the St. Lawrence and Lake Ontario so as to be as far as the River Trent
by the end of the eighteenth century: and Prince Edward County had also its quota of settlers.
Until the nineteenth century had set in there were practically no settlers from the Trent to
near York (Toronto) but that splendid territory of level clay and loam land covered by magnificent
forests of beech and maple gradually filled in and by the 30's was fairly well settled. In
the latter territory there were very few, if any, slaves.[15]

Farther east, however, in what became the Eastern and Midland Districts there were many slaves.
It is probable that by far the greatest number had their habitat in that region. When York
became the provincial capital (1796-7) slaves were brought to that place by their masters.
In the Niagara region there were also some slaves, in great part bought from the Six Nation
Indians as some of these in the eastern part of the province were bought from the Mississaguas
who had a rendezvous on Carleton Island near Kingston. In the Detroit region there were many
slaves, some of them Panis;[16] and many of both kinds, Panis and Negro bought from the Shawanese,
Pottawattaimies and other Western Indians, taken for the most part from the Ohio and Kentucky
country. Most of these slaves were west of the river, few being in the Province of Upper Canada
de jure. Omitting Detroit, the number of slaves in the province at the time of the Act of 1793
was probably not far from 500.[17]

In the Eastern District, part of which became the District of Johntown in 1798, there were
certainly some slaves. Justus Sherwood one of the first settlers brought a Negro slave Caesar
Congo to his location near Prescott. Caesar was afterwards sold to a half pay officer Captain
Bottom settled about six miles above Prescott and after about twenty years service was emancipated
by his master. Caesar afterwards married a woman of color and lived in Brockville for many
years and until his death. Daniel Jones another old settler had a female Negro slave and there
were a few more slaves in the district.[18]

It is possible that this part of the province was the home of a Negro who at the age of 101
appeared at the Assize Court at Ottawa in 1867 to give evidence. He was born in the Colony
of New York in 1766, had been brought to Upper Canada by his master, a United Empire Loyalist,
had fought through the war of 1812 on the British side, was present at the Battles of Chippewa
and Lundy's Lane and was wounded at Sackett's Harbor.[19]

In the Midland District at Kingston such leading families as the Cartwrights, Herkimers and
Everetts were slave owners. Further west the Ruttans, Bogarts, Van Alstynes,[20] Petersons,
Allens, Clarks, Bowers, Thompsons, Meyers, Spencers, Perrys, Pruyns, speaking generally all
the people of substance had their slaves.[21]

It may be noted that there are many records of births, deaths and marriages of slaves. In the
Register for the Township of Fredericksburg (Third Township) of the Reverend John Langhorn,
Anglican clergyman, we find in 1791, November 13, that he baptized "Richard son of Pomps and
Nelly a negro living with Mr. Timothy Thompson.[22] On October 6, 1793, "Richard surnamed Pruyn
a negro, living with Harmen Pruyn," on March 2, 1796, "Betty, surnamed Levi, a negro girl living
with Johannes Walden Meyers" of the Township of Thurlow. On April 22, 1805, "Francis, son of
Violet, a negro woman living with Hazelton Spencer[23] Esq. by Francis Green." We find that
"Francis, son of Violet ... by Francis Green as was supposed" was buried January 17, 1806.[24]

In a paper by the late J. C. Hamilton, a barrister of Toronto, he says that Lieutenant Governor
Sir Alexander Campbell had favored him with a note concerning slaves at Kingston, which concluded
"I had personally known two slaves in Canada: one belonging to the Cartwright and the other
to the Forsyth family.[25] When I remember them in their old age, each had a cottage, surrounded
by many comforts on the family property of his master and was the envy of all the old people
in the neighborhood."[26]

York (Toronto) and its neighborhood were settled later but they received their quota of Negro
slaves, at least the town did. In 1880, the Gazette at York announces to be sold "a healthy
strong negro woman, about thirty years of age; understands cooking, laundry and the taking
care of poultry. N.B. She can dress ladies' hair. Enquire of the Printers, York, Dec. 20, 1800."[27]

The best people in the capital owned Negroes. Peter Russell who had been administrator of the
government of the province and therefore the head of the State advertised in the Gazette and
Oracle of February 19, 1806:

"To be sold: a Black Woman named Peggy, aged forty years and a Black Boy her son named Jupiter,
aged about fifteen years, both of them the property of the Subscriber. The woman is a tolerable
cook and washerwoman and perfectly understands making soap and candles. The boy is tall and
strong for his age, and has been employed in the country business but brought up principally
as a house servant. The price of the woman is one hundred and fifty dollars. For the boy two
hundred dollars payable in three years with interest from the day of sale and to be secured
by bond, &c. But one-fourth less will be taken for ready money."

Peggy was not a satisfactory slave, she had awkward visions of freedom. On September 2, 1803,
Russell advertised: "The subscriber's black servant Peggy not having his permission to absent
herself from his service, the public are hereby cautioned from employing or harbouring her
without the owner's leave. Whoever will do so after this notice may expect to be treated as
the law directs."

Peggy was not the only slave who was dissatisfied with her lot. On March 1, 1811, William Jarvis,
the Secretary of the Province "informed the Court that a negro boy and girl, his slaves, had
the evening before been committed to prison for having stolen gold and silver out of his desk
in his dwelling house and escaped from their said master; and prayed that the Court would order
that the said prisoners with one Coachly a free negro, also committed to prison on suspicion
of having advised and aided the said boy and girl in eloping with their master's property...."
It was "ordered that the said negro boy named Henry commonly called Prince be recommitted to
prison and there safely kept till discharged according to law and that the said girl do return
to her said master and Coachly be discharged."[29]

Jarvis had slaves when he resided at Niagara. We find in the Register of St. Mark's Parish
there an entry of February 5, 1797, of Moses and Phoebe, Negro slaves of Mr. "Sec'y Jarvis."
Nor is this a unique entry for we find this: "1819 April 4, Cupitson Walker and Margt. Lee
(of Colour)," but these may have been free.

There were baptized: "1793, January 3, Jane a daughter of Martin, Col. Butler's Negro," "1794,
September 3, Cloe, a mulatto," "1800, March 29, Peggy a mulatto (filia populi)," "1807, May
10, John of a negro girl (filius populi)" and in the same list was a soldier shot for desertion,
a soldier who shot himself, "an unfortunate stranger," "R. B. Tickel, alas he was starved,"
an Indian child, "Cutnose Johnson, a Mohawk chief" and there is recorded the burial of "Mrs.
Waters a negro woman," September 29, 1802.[30]

Slaves continued to run away. Colonel Butler in the Upper Canada Gazette of July 4, 1793, advertised
a reward of $5 for his "negro-man servant named John."[31] On August 28, 1802, Mr. Charles
Field of Niagara advertised in the Herald: "All persons are forbidden harbouring, employing
or concealing my Indian Slave Sal, as I am determined to prosecute any offender to the extremity
of the law and persons who may suffer her to remain in or upon their premises for the space
of half an hour, without my written consent will be taken as offending and dealt with accordingly."[32]

There was always a demand for good slaves. For example, in the Gazette and Oracle of Niagara
October 11, 1797, W. & J. Crooks of West Niagara "Wanted to purchase a negro girl of good disposition":
a little later, January 2, 1802 the Niagara Herald advertised for sale "a negro man slave,
18 years old, stout and healthy; has had the Smallpox and is capable of service either in the
house or out-doors. The terms will be made easy to the purchaser, and cash or new lands received
in payment." On January 18, 1802, the Niagara Herald proclaimed for sale: "the negro man and
woman, the property of Mrs. Widow Clement. They have been bred to the business of a farm; will
be sold on highly advantageous terms for cash or lands."[33]

Slavery in Upper Canada continued until the Imperial Act of 1833[34] but there does not seem
to be any record of sales after 1806. Probably the last slaves to become free were two who
are mentioned by the late Sir Adam Wilson, Chief Justice successively of the Courts of Common
Pleas and Queen's Bench at Toronto. These were "two young slaves, Hank and Sukey whom he met
at the residence of Mrs. O'Reilly, mother of the venerable Miles O'Reilly, Q. C., in Halton
County about 1830. They took freedom under the Act of 1833 and were perhaps the last slaves
in the province."[35]

In the Detroit neighborhood there were undoubtedly many slaves, Panis and Negro: most of these
were lost to the province on the delivery up of the retained territory in 1796 under the provisions
of Jay's Treaty. But some were on the Canadian side and some were brought over by their masters
on the surrender. Colonel Matthew Elliott who settled in 1784 just below Amherstburg brought
many slaves, some sixty it is said. The remains of slave quarters are still in existence on
the place. Jacques Duperon Baby the well-known fur-trader had at least thirty.

Antoine Louis Descompte dit Labadie, who raised a family of thirty-three children was the owner
of slaves also. He was a wealthy farmer of the Township of Sandwich (now Walkerville) and died
in 1806, aged 62. On May 26, 1806, he made at Sandwich his will by which he made the following
bequest: "I also give and bequeath to my wife the use or service of two slaves that she may
select, as long as she continues to be my widow." After a number of bequests there follows:
"I will that all my personal property not here above bequeathed as well as my slaves with the
exception of the two left to my wife, be portioned out or sold, and that the proceeds arising
therefrom be equally divided between my said wife and the nine children[36] born out of my
marriage with her."

Some of these slaves were probably Panis. There is extant a parchment receipt dated at Detroit,
October 10, 1775, which reads:

     "Je certifie avoir vendu et livré au Sieur Labadie, une esclave
     Paniese[37] nommée Mannon pour et en considération de la quantité
     de quatre-vingt minots[38] de Blé de froment qu'il doit me payer
     à mesure qu'il aura au printemps prochain, donné sous ma main au
     Detroit ce dixième jour d'Octobre, 1775.

     Temoin                     (Signé) James Sterling[39]
     (Signé) John Porteous.

Some of the reports of judges who presided over criminal assizes, moreover, contain references
to slavery. Mr. Justice Powell tried a Negro, Jack York, with a jury at Sandwich for burglary
in 1800. He was found guilty and in accordance with the law at that time, was sentenced to
death. Powell respited the prisoner that the pleasure of the Lieutenant Governor might be known.
The Lieutenant-Governor at that time was General Peter Hunter a rigid disciplinarian. Hunter
wrote Powell that as York had been convicted of "the most atrocious offence without any circumstances
of doubt or alleviation" he was to be hanged. When York was made aware of his fate, he promptly
escaped from the ramshackle gaol at Sandwich.

In the proceedings Captain McKee informed the judge that the main witness had "been an Indian
prisoner redeemed by his father and had lived in his kitchen and he did not think her credit
good." She was one of Mr. James Girty's three Negroes and "known to be saucy."[40]

Another report nearly a score of years later may be of interest. It can be best understood
in its historical setting. During the war of 1812, as soon as the American invasion of Canada
began, prices of all commodities began to soar.[41] There was a great demand for beef for the
troops regular and militia and the commissariat was not too scrupulously particular to inquire
the source whence it might come. The result was that a crime which had been almost unknown
suddenly increased to alarmingly large proportions. Cattle roaming in the woods were killed
and the meat sold to the army. Prosecutions were instituted in many cases. It was found that
the perpetrators were generally, but by no means always, landless men, not infrequently refugee
slaves, who had come to the province from the United States. The offence was punishable with
death:[42] and convictions were not hard to obtain. But the punishment of death was not in
practice actually inflicted.

Whatever the cause, the crime continued until normal conditions were reestablished when it
became as rare as it had been before the war. At the Fall Assizes, 1819, at York before Mr.
Justice Campbell and a jury, a man of color, Philip Turner, was convicted of stealing and killing
a heifer and sentenced to death: Mr. Justice Powell who had been in the Commission of Oyer
and Terminer with Campbell reported to the Lieutenant-Governor[43] that there had as yet been
no execution for this offence in the province and recommended that the sentence should be committed
to banishment for life from His Majesty's dominions.[44] Tradition has it that Turner was a
refugee from the United States and begged to be hanged rather than sent back where he would
be again enslaved.[45]

When the fugitive slave reached the soil of Upper Canada he became and was free with all the
rights and privileges of any other freeman: but sometimes the former condition of servitude
had unhappy results. One case will suffice. John Harris was a slave in Virginia. He rented
a house in Richmond and lived in it with his wife Sarah Holloway. Harris was a painter and
gave the greater part of his earnings to his master. The wife earned money by washing and gave
to her mistress part of her scanty earnings. The wife's second name was that of her master
Major Halloway in whose house she had been married in 1825 to Harris by the Reverend Richard
Vaughan, a Baptist minister, a free man. The couple had three children.

In 1833 Harris effected his escape to Upper Canada and came to Toronto (then York) in the spring
of 1834 under the name of George Johnstone. In 1847 he obtained from John Beverley Robinson,
Chief Justice of Upper Canada a deed of three acres of land part of Lot 12 in the First Concession
from the bay east of the river Don in the Township of York. He died without a will in February,
1851. The deserted wife after his escape married a man by the name of Brown. She continued
a slave until the fall of Richmond and died in 1869 or 1870.[46]

About that time the eldest son came to Canada, and he brought an action as the heir-at-law
against one Cooper, the person in possession. All the facts were clear and the only difficulty
in the way was as to the validity of the marriage of the Negro. Chief Justice William Buell
Richards, of the Court of Queen's Bench tried the case at the Fall Assizes, 1870, at Toronto.
Evidence was given by a Virginia lawyer and judge[47] that there was no law in Virginia either
authorizing or forbidding the marriage of slaves because "slaves were property and not persons
for marital purposes.... In short, by the law of Virginia, slaves were but property, treated
as property exclusively, except where by special Statute they were made persons."

On this evidence, therefore, the Chief Justice dismissed the action. The plaintiff appealed
to the full Court of Queen's Bench urging that the slaves had done all they could to make their
marriage legal. In vain, they were not British subjects and the rules of international law
were too rigid to allow of the court holding the marriage legal. Mr. Justice Wilson in giving
the judgment of the Court said:[48]

"This is, no doubt, an unfortunate conclusion, for the plaintiff is undoubtedly the child of
John Harris and Sarah who were made man and wife in form and by all the usual solemnities of
real matrimony. The parents were of mature age, of sound sense, reason and understanding. The
father had a trade which he followed by permission of his master for a yearly sum which he
paid to him for the privilege, or as it is said 'he hired his own time.' He rented a house
for himself; he was married with the consent of those who could give it by a minister in orders
and in form at least under the sanction of religion: he lived with the woman he had taken as
his wife and had children by her and left her only to gain his freedom; yet it is manifest
by the force of positive human law, there was no marriage and no legitimate issue."[49]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The Statute is (1792) 32 George III, c. 1 (U.C.). 19 Howard, 354, pp. 404, 405.

[3] See as to this Reginald W. Jeffery, The History of The Thirteen Colonies of North America
1497-1763 (London), p. 190. This interesting work which I have found accurate gives Governor
Spotswood as enforcing the Royal decree rigidly. His manuscript diary is still extant, a copy
being in the possession of the writer: One entry reads under date Newark Tuesday March 6 1793
"John Young from Grand River came with Mr. MacMichael respecting his runaway negro. Rec'd 5 Dols."

[8] Canadian Archives, Q. 279, 2, p. 335.

White in his diary says "To the 21 June, some opposition in the House not much"--under date
June 25 when the Bill was in Committee of the whole he says "Debated the Slave Bill hardly:
Met much opposition but little argument." One of them deserves special mention, viz.: that
of Robert I. D. Gray, the first Solicitor General of the Province, whose death was decidedly
tragic.

In the Canadian Archives, M. 393, is the copy of a letter, the property of the late Judge Pringle
of Cornwall, by Robert I. D. Gray to his sister Mrs. Valentine dated at Kempton February 16,
1804, and addressed to her "at Captain Joseph Anderson's, Cornwall, Eastern District": speaking
of a trip to Albany, New York, he says:

"I saw some of our old friends while in the states, none was I more happy to meet than Lavine,
Dorin's mother. Just as I was leaving Albany I heard from our cousin Mrs. Garret Stadts who
is living in Albany in obscurity and indigence owing to her husband being a drunken idle fellow,
that Lavine was living in a tavern with a man of the name of Broomly. I immediately employed
a friend of mine, Mr. Ramsay of Albany, to negotiate with the man for the purchase of her.
He did so stating that I wished to buy her freedom, in consequence of which the man readily
complied with my wishes, and altho' he declared she was worth to him £100 (i.e., $250) he gave
her to me for 50 dollars. When I saw her, she was overjoyed and appeared as happy as any person
could be, at the idea of seeing her child Dorin, and her children once more, with whom if Dorin
wishes it, she will willingly spend the remainder of her days. I could not avoid doing this
act, the opportunity seemed to have been thrown in my way by providence and I could not resist
it. She is a good servant yet--healthy & strong and among you, you may find her useful, I have
promised her, that she may work as much or as little as she pleases while she lives--but from
the character I have of her, idleness is not her pleasure, I could not bring her with me, she
wanted to see some of her children before she sets out; I have paved the way for her, and some
time this month, Forsyth, upon her arrival here will forward her to you...."

Then follows a pathetic touch:

"I saw old Cato, Lavine's father at Newark, while I was at Col. Ogden's; he is living with
Mrs. Governeur--is well taken care of & blind--poor fellow came to feel me, for he could not
see, he asked affectionately after the family."

In the will of the well-known Colonel John Butler of Butler's Rangers there are bequests to
his son Andrew of "a negro woman named Pat": to his grandson John of "a Negro Boy named George
... until the said negro arrives at the years that the Law directs to receive his freedom"
and to John's sister Catharine "a negro girl named Jane" for a similar time.

[14] Michigan Hist. Coll., XIV, p. 659. But the actual effect of the Ordinance of 1787, even
after 1805 was not absolute. "As late as 1807 Judge Woodward refused to free a negro man and
woman on a writ of habeas corpus, holding in effect that as they had been slaves at the time
of the surrender in 1796, there was something in Jay's Treaty that forbade their release."
Michigan as a Province, Territory and State, 1906, p. 339. "There is a tradition that even
as late as the coming of Gen. John T. Mason, as Secretary of the Territory in 1831, he brought
some domestic slaves with him from Virginia. It is not improbable that a few domestic servants
continued with their old Masters down to the time of the adoption of the State Constitution"
(in 1835) ibid., p. 338, note.

Before Detroit and its adjoining territory were given up by the British to the Americans under
Jay's Treaty, August, 1796, there were many instances of slaves escaping from the United States
territory to British territory in that neighborhood and vice versa. One instance of escape
from British territory will suffice.

Colonel Alexander McKee, a well-known and very prominent Loyalist of Detroit, lost a mulatto
slave in 1795 and his friend and colleague Captain Matthew Elliott sent a man David Tait to
look for him in what is now Indiana. Tait's success or want of success is shown by his affidavit
before George Sharp a justice of the peace for the Western District of Upper Canada residing
in Detroit. The whole deposition will be given as it illustrates the terms on which the two
peoples were living at the time in that country, and shows that even then the charges were
made which were afterwards made one of the pretexts for the War of 1812. It is given in the
Mich. Hist. Coll., Vol. XII, pp. 164, 165.

                             "DEPOSITION

     "I being sent by Captain Elliott in search of a Molato man name
     Bill the property of Colonel McKee, which was thought to be at
     Fort Wayne, But on my Arrival at the Glaize was inform'd by the
     officer there that he was gone, they said he had gained his
     liberty, by getting into their lines he being stole from their
     Country.

     "They abused the Gentlemen in this place very & Told me that
     Governor Sancom (Simcoe) Colonel England and Captain Elliott
     caused bills in print to be dropped near their fort, Encouraging
     their Soldiers to desert.

     "They called Coll McKee & Capt Elliott dam'd rasculs and said
     that they gave the Indians Rum to make them Drunk to prevent them
     from going to Counsil & That Capt Brent they said was a Dam'd
     rascul and had done everything in his power against them. But
     they said in Course of Nine Months that they Expected to be in
     full possession of Detroit and all the Country between their & it
     & I begged liberty to withdraw when Major Hunt told me to make
     the best of my way from Whence I came, while I was getting ready
     to return the Serjeant of their Guard came & Told me it was the
     Majors orders that I should leave the place immediately & not to
     stay about any of the Indian Camps. Which Orders I obeyed.

                                  (signed) DAVID TAIT.

     Sworn before me at Detroit 4th August 1795.

                                  GEO SHARP, J. P. W. D."
     Indian Affairs, M. G. VII.

[15] I have found no reliable accounts of slaves in this region--some traditions which I have
investigated proved unreliable and illusory.

[16] I cannot trace many Panis slaves in Upper Canada proper; that there were some at Detroit
is certain and equally certain that some were at one time on both shores of the Niagara River.

[17] This is indicated by a number of facts none of much significance and all together far
from conclusive--but it is a mere estimate perhaps not much more than a guess and I should
not be astonished if it were proved that the estimate was astray by 100 either way. Indeed
contemporary estimates gave for the Nassau District alone in 1791, 300 Negro slaves and a few
Panis. Col. Mathew Elliott in 1784 brought more than 50 slaves to his estate at Amherstburg.

[18] See letter of Sheriff Sherwood, Papers &c, Ontario Historical Society 1901, Vol. 3, p.
107. Justus Sherwood came from Vermont, originally from Connecticut, joined Burgoyne's army
in 1777 and came to Canada in 1778, joined Rogers' Rangers and served during the war. He came
to Prescott in 1784. He had had a not unusual experience with the Continentals. His "Negro
wench and two negroe children" had been seized and "sold to Wm. Drake." (Second Ont. Arch.
Rep., 1904, p. 820.) Daniel Jones, father of Sir Daniel Jones of Brockville, came from Charlotte
County, New York (ibid., p. 398). He was also a native of Connecticut.

[19] He was in full possession of all his faculties and had been brought to Ottawa to prove
the death of one person in 1803 and of another in 1814. The action was Morris v. Henderson
"Ottawa Citizen" May 3, 1867. Robert I. D. Gray mentioned in note 13 above, came from this
district.

[20] A Van Alstyne--Major Peter Van Alstyne--was elected to represent Prince Edward County
in the first Legislative Assembly when Philip Dorland was unseated because he would not take
the prescribed oath being a Quaker.

[21] See the interesting paper read before the Women's Historical Society of Toronto by Mrs.
W. T. Hallam, B.A., and published in The Canadian Churchman, May 8, 1919, republished in pamphlet
form. I am authorized by Mrs. Hallam to make full use of her researches and I take advantage
of this permission. Mrs. Hallam has also the following:

"There is an old orchard between Collins Bay and Bath, Ontario, now used as a garden, which
belongs to the Fairfield family. The children of this Loyalist family brought the seeds in
their pockets from the old home in Vermont, and here lie buried the slaves belonging to the
Fairfield and Pruyn families. On the way over they milked the cows, which were brought with
them, and sometimes the milk was the only food which they had. The old Fairfield Homestead,
built in 1793, is still standing, but the negro quarters are unused, for as those who live
there say, "On a hot day you would declare the slaves were still there."

Miss Alice Fairfield of the White House, Collins Bay, a descendant of these Fairfields gives
the following account in a paper read before the Woman's Historical Society, Toronto (of which
Mrs. Seymour Corley of Toronto has been good enough to furnish me a copy) "In March 1799, Stephen
Fairfield married Maria Pruyn (from Kinder Hook, N. Y.), whose marriage portion included several
slaves. They remained with the family as a matter of course after the law had given them their
freedom. Of their devotion a story is told--"Mott" the old black nurse of my great grandmother
walked to York (Toronto) a distance of 160 miles in cold weather to warn her of a plot against
her property--the shoes were literally worn off her feet." The writer adds "The Tory branch
of the Fairfield family that came to Canada were from Paulet County, Vermont ... they brought
some 'niggers' as they called their black slaves, into Canada." "The first apples grown in
the country were raised from the seeds of apples with which the Children had filled their pockets
at the old home."

A contributor to the Napanee Banner writes: "There has been considerable controversy of late
whether slaves ever were owned in this section of Canada. The Allens brought three slaves with
them who remained with the family for years. Thomas Dorland also had a number of slaves who
were members of the house-hold as late as 1820. The Pruyns who lived on the front of Fredericksburg
had, we are informed, over a dozen slaves with them. The Ruttans of Adolphustown brought two
ablebodied slaves with them. Major Van Alstyne also had slaves; so had John Huyck who lived
north of Hay Bay, and the Bogarts near neighbors, and the Trampours of the opposite side of
Hay Bay. The Clarks of Ernestown, now called Bath, owned slaves who were with them years after
their residence in Canada. The Everetts of Kingston Township and the Cartwrights of Kingston
had theirs."

[22] A man of considerable note: in 1800 appointed with Richard Cartwright, Commissioner to
settle the finances between the two Provinces.

[23] Member for Lenox, Hastings and Northumberland Counties in the first Legislative Assembly:
and afterwards Sheriff.

[24] The Pruyns of Fredericksburg are credited with owning more slaves than any other family
in that region. Mrs. Hallam, ut supra, p. 4.

The above extracts are taken from the Registers published by the Ont. Hist. Soc., Vol. 1.

[25] Both prominent families in Kingston.

[26] Trans. Can. Inst., Vol. 1 (1889-1890), p. 106.

[27] For this and the following incident see that most interesting book "Toronto of Old" by
Henry Scadding, D.D., Toronto, 1873, pp. 293, 294, 295.

[28] Henry Scadding's Toronto of Old, p. 296. Dr. Scadding, speaks of his "in former times"
gazing at Amy Pompadour with some curiosity.

Miss Elizabeth Russell, sister of the Administrator, had a slave, a pure Negro Amy Pompadour,
whom she gave to Mrs. Denison wife of Captain John Denison, an old comrade in arms of her brother's.

[29] Ibid., p. 292. The boy if he had stolen his master's money would be guilty of grand larceny,
a capital offence at the time and consequently not tried at the Quarter Sessions. He was, therefore,
recommitted to prison to await the Court of Oyer and Terminer and General Gaol Delivery commonly
called the Assizes.

The master probably withdrew the charge against the girl and Coachly, or they may have been
so fortunate as that there was no evidence against them.

[30] See the lists in the Ont. Hist. Soc. Papers (1901), Vol. 3, pp. 9 sqq.

In the list of marriages are found: "1797, Oct. 12, Cuff Williams and Ann, Negroes from Mr.
C. McNabb"; "1800, Dec. 1, Prince Robinson and Phillis Gibson, Negroes" and six other marriages
down to 1831 between persons "of Colour". These last were probably not slaves.

That Joseph Brant "Thayendinaga," the celebrated Indian Chief, had Negro slaves has been confidently
asserted and as confidently denied. That there were Negroes in his household seems certain
and their status was inferior. Whether he called them slaves or not, it is probable that he
had full control of them.

See Stones' Life of Brant, New York, 1838. He rather boasted of his slaves. He was attended
on his journeys and at table by two of them, Patton and Simon Gauseville. Hamilton in his Osgoode
Hall, Toronto, 1904, says (p. 21): "Thayendinaga lived surrounded with slaves and retainers
in barbarous magnificence at Burlington." But that is rhetoric.

[31] Trans. Can. Inst., Vol. 1 (1889-1890), p. 105.

[32] Dr. Scadding ut supra, p. 295. This is almost the only trace of Panis slavery in Upper
Canada, proper, which I have found. The attempt to make a crime by the advertiser is not without
precedent or imitation: it was, however, merely a threat and a brutum fulmen.

[33] Dr. Scadding ut supra, pp. 294, 295.

Such advertisements as these of 1802 indicate an uneasiness as to the security of the slave
property. Dr. Scadding remarks "Cash and lands were plainly beginning to be regarded as less
precarious property than human chattels," ibid., p. 295.

[34] See supra, p.

[35] Trans. Can. Inst., ut supra, p. 106.

These if actual slaves could not have been very young. If they were brought into the province
after the Act of 1793 they would become free ipso facto. If born after that Act they would
not properly speaking be slaves at all but only subject to service until the age of 25.

If they were slaves they must have been at least 37 in 1830; but probably they were born after
1793 and had not attained the age of 25 in 1833. They might then be young as described by Sir Adam.

[36] Labadie had been twice married.

[37] For "Panise."

[38] The French Minot is 39.36 litres; the Canadian 36.34 litres or 63.94 pints--the bushel
is 64 pints--the Canadian minot is consequently almost exactly one bushel.

[39] Essex Historical Society--Papers and Addresses, Vol. 1, Windsor, Ont. (1913), pp. 13,
39, 48-52.

This is translated thus: I certify that I have sold and delivered to Mr. Labodie a Panis slave
called Manon for and in consideration of 80 minots (practically 80 bushels) of wheat which
he is to pay me as he has it the coming spring--given under my hand at Detroit this 10th day
of October, 1775.

  WITNESS:                                      (Signed)
  (Signed) JOHN PORTEOUS.                   JAMES STERLING."

[40] The fact was that Jack York had broken into McKee's dwelling house to commit rape and
he had committed rape on the person of Mrs. Ruth Sufflemine (or Stufflemine).

Powell's report is dated from Mount Dorchester, September 22, 1800. Canadian Archives, Sundries
U.C. 1792-1800; Hunter's decision in May is in Canadian Archives Letters Hunter to Heads of
Departments, p. 65; York's escape is ibid., p. 84; the Death Warrant is referred to in Canadian
Archives Sundries U.C. 1792-1800.

There were certainly slaves in the Western District. The will of Antoine Louis Descomps Labadie
made May 26, 1806, contains a bequest "I also give and bequeath to my wife Charlotte, the use
or service of two slaves that she may select as long as she continues to be my widow." "A black
boy slave to Mrs. Benton, widow of the late Commodore of the Lakes" seems to have been as bad
as Jack York. Convicted at Kingston of a house robbery, a capital crime he had the "benefit
of clergy" that is, set free as a first offence. But he did not mend his ways. He committed
burglary and was convicted at Kingston 1795 before Mr. Justice Powell. The judge sentenced
him to be hanged but recommended a pardon. He said the boy was said to be 17 but looked no
more than 15 and in view of his education as a slave he hoped that his "would not be the first
capital example." Can. Arch., B. 210.

[41] In a memorial by the judges of the Court of King's Bench to the Lieutenant Governor, January
10, 1814, they point out that prices have doubled since the war. The prices before the war
and at the time were of bread 1/ and 2/; of beef 6 d and 1/; of wood 7/6 and 15/.

[42] Before 1772, this was not a crime at all but only a civil trespass; the Waltham Black
Act (1722) 9 George I, c. 22 made it a felony punishable with death without benefit of clergy.
This continued to be the law in England until the Act (1827) 7, 8 George IV, c. 27 (Imp.),
and in Upper Canada until 1841.

[43] Sir Peregrine Maitland.

[44] Banishment existed as a punishment in Upper Canada until 1841, when it was finally abolished
and succeeded by imprisonment. Banishment was a very common alternative for hanging. I have
counted as many as four cases at one assize.

[45] The tradition is a floating and rather indefinite one. It has some plausibility but there
is nothing which to my mind can be dignified by the name of proof. The facts of the Turner
case will be found in a Report by Mr. (afterwards Chief) Justice Powell to Sir Peregrine Maitland's
Secretary Edward McMahon, November 1, 1819, Canadian Archives, Sundries, U.C., 1819.

[46] Canadian Archives, Q. 324, pp. 432, 436 Letter, June 8, 1818, from "Thos. N. Stewart,
Capt. H. P. late Royal Newfoundland Regiment" to the Right Honourable Earl Bathurst, dated
from Barnstable, North Devon.

Turning to a more pleasant subject, while it may not be strictly within the purview of this
treatise, it may be permitted to bring to light from the files of the Canadian Archives a story
of a poor black woman who showed true humanity. It may be considered by some at the expense
of her patriotism. That will not be admitted by everyone, for what share did the Negro have
in America in which he lived more than in Britain which offered him freedom?

When in May, 1813, General Dearborn took Fort George in Upper Canada, one of his prisoners
was Captain Thomas N. Stewart of the Royal Newfoundland Regiment who was wounded. Taken to
the United States, he was with several other British officers kept for months a close prisoner
at Philadelphia as a hostage under the retaliation system.

"At length," said he, "I with fourteen other officers made my escape from the prison at Philadelphia
by sawing off the iron bars with the springs of watches, but from the active search which was
made ten of my companions were retaken in the course of three days. I ... attribute my success
(as well as that of two more British officers) in being enabled to elude the vigilance of the
enemy to the kindness and humanity of a poor black woman to whose protection we committed ourselves
in our real character and situation: and notwithstanding a reward of one hundred dollars was
offered for the apprehension of each officer without our even being able to reward her in an
equal degree, she persevered in affording us comfort and accommodation, greatly to her own
risk and loss by the total resignation of her small hut and a tender of her services to our
use visiting us only at night with provisions, &c. This she continued to do for eight days.
When it was thought that the active search was in a great degree abated I ventured by night
to leave the abode of this black woman with the intention of going to the Headquarters of the
British Army in Canada and this I ultimately succeeded in accomplishing."

His companions leaving one by one at different times also succeeded in returning to the service
of their country. Having only $70 and having to travel 600 miles, Capt. Stewart could give
the woman only $20: and all she received from all the officers was only $50. He wrote Earl
Bathurst, Secretary of State for War and the Colonies asking that she should be remunerated
and saying that he would "be most happy to give the address and the source thro' which communication
could be made."

Bathurst replied June 13, asking for particulars, and Captain Stewart June 18 wrote again on
the eighteenth of June saying that the matter required the utmost circumspection and excusing
himself from giving information until he had communication with America, hoping to point out
the precise object whom "His Lordship has thought worthy of remuneration." No doubt the matter
then passed into the Secret Service, as no further correspondence is preserved in documents
open to the public.

[46a] The motion was heard in Trinity Term, 34 Victoriae i.e. in February, 1871, see the report
in 31 Upper Canada Queens Bench Reports, p. 182: Harris v. Cooper. The Court was composed of
the Chief Justice William Buell Richards, afterward Sir William Buell Richards, Chief Justice
of Canada, Mr. Justice Joseph Curran Morrison, afterwards a Judge of the Court of Error and
Appeal, and Mr. Justice Adam Wilson, afterwards successively Chief Justice of the Court of
Common Pleas, and of the Court of Queen's Bench.

[47] Two years after her first husband's death, that is, in 1853, the widow who had then married
one Scott sold the lot to Mr. Boomer for $300. Mr. Boomer sold two acres to Edward Osborne
and he to Cooper for $800. By 1871 the land had appreciated in value so as to make it worth
a lawsuit. Of course, the widow never had any right to sell the land, but it was at least ungracious
for her son to repudiate her deed.

[48] The law of Virginia as to marriages of slaves even with the consent of the master was
fully and clearly stated by the Court of Appeals of Virginia in the case of Scott v. Raub (1872)
88 Virginia, 721. See also the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the case
of Hall v. United States, 92 U. S. 127; and in Alabama, Matilda v. Gardner, 24 Alabama, 719.

[49] 31 Upper Canada Queens Bench Reports at p. 195, 1871.

CHAPTER VI

THE FUGITIVE SLAVE IN UPPER CANADA

Before the Act of 1793, there was some immigration of slaves fleeing from their masters in
the United States. After the Act of 1793, however, a slave by entering Upper Canada became
free, whether he was brought in by his master or fled from him. Legislation of the United States
in the same year[1] increased the number of those fleeing to the province under this law. Slaves
who had effected their escape to what were considered free States were liable to be reclaimed
by their masters. Shocking instances of the forcing into renewed slavery of the escaped slave
and even of enslaving the free persons of color are on record and there are told worse which
never saw the open light of day.

Eli Whitney's invention of the cotton gin about the same time[2] made slaves much more valuable
and not only checked the movement toward gradual emancipation but increased the ardor with
which the fugitive was pursued. From 1793 the influx of fugitive slaves into the province never
quite ceased. The War of 1812 saw former slaves in the Canadian militia fighting against their
former masters and Canada as an asylum of freedom became known in the South by mysterious but
effective means. "As early as 1815 negroes were reported crossing the Western Reserve to Canada
in great numbers and one group of Underground Railway workers in Southern Ohio is stated to
have passed on more than 1000 fugitives before 1817."[3]

It is not proposed here to give an account of the celebrated Underground Railway. It is sufficient
to say that it was the cause of hundreds of slaves reaching the province.[4] Some slaves escaped
by their own efforts in what can fairly be called a miraculous way. No more dramatic or thrilling
tales were ever told than could be told by some of these refugees. Some having been brought
by their masters near to the Canadian boundary then clandestinely or by force effected a passage.
Some came from far to the South, guided by the North Star. Many were assisted by friends more
or less secretly. Toronto received many. Most of these are merely traditional but at least
one is well authenticated.[7]

In May, 1830, a young man with finely chiselled features, bright hazel eyes, apparently a quadroon
or octoroon applied for service at the house of Charles Baby, "the old Baby mansion in the
... historical town of Sandwich" in Upper Canada on the Detroit River. He said he had escaped
from slavery in Kentucky, had arrived on the previous evening at Detroit and had crossed the
river to Canada as quickly as possible. He had been a mason but understood gardening and attending
to horses and had other accomplishments. He was engaged and proved a satisfactory servant "respectful,
cleanly, capable, lithe and active as a panther." His former master came from Kentucky and
reclaimed him after the lapse of six months. The recognition was mutual and immediate. The
Kentuckian, offered $2000 to Baby for the return of Andrew his former slave, but the offer
was indignantly refused. It turned out that Andrew had taken his master's favorite horse to
assist him in his flight but had turned it loose after riding it some twenty-five miles. Whether
for this reason or for some other, the Kentuckian did not appeal for the extradition of Andrew[8]
but determined to use violence.

A short time afterwards five desperadoes from Detroit attempted to kidnap Andrew while the
family were at Church, but they were successfully resisted by Andrew and Charles Baby until
the service was over and the people were seen hastening home. The would-be kidnappers made
their escape across the river. Finding it dangerous to keep Andrew so near the border, the
neighbors took up a subscription and he was sent by stage to York (Toronto). This place he
reached in safety. "He made good" and lived a respectable and useful life undisturbed by any
fear of Kentucky vengeance.[9]

The law as to such attempts was authoritatively stated in 1819 by John Beverley Robinson, Attorney
General of Upper Canada, afterwards Sir John Beverley Robinson, Bart, Chief Justice of Upper
Canada. There can be no doubt that in the absence of some constitutional provision every country
has the right to keep out criminals and, if they have entered the country, to hand them over
to the authorities of the country whence they came; but the rules of international law have
never gone so far as to make it obligatory on any country to send away immigrant criminals
even if demanded by their former country.

It was under this act that the extradition of Thornton Blackburn was sought but finally refused.
On the day before the rescue of Thornton Blackburn his wife eluded the jailer in disguise and
escaped to Canada.

The Upper Canadian Government was, therefore, called upon to return these prisoners to the
United States. Upon examining the record in the case, however, the Attorney General of Upper
Canada in reply to the Governor for information in the case, advised that the so-called offences
of Thornton Blackburn in trying to effect his own escape from persons seeking to return him
to slavery could not be construed as rioting or rescuing a prisoner from an officer of the
law as had been set forth in the requisition papers from the Michigan authorities and certainly
could not be applied to Thornton Blackburn's wife who, as the evidence showed, had taken no
part at all in the rescue.

The council[14] was thereafter called upon to consider the question whether, if a similar charge
had been committed in Canada, the offenders would be liable to undergo any of the punishments
provided for in the act passed at the session of the Canadian Legislature in 1833. The Attorney
General[15] was of the opinion that had the government been confined to the official requisition
that had accompanied it, he might have been warranted in delivering up these persons inasmuch
as there was evidence on which, according to the terms of the Canadian law, a magistrate would
have been warranted in apprehending and committing for trial persons charged with riot, forcible
rescue and assault and battery.

The next case was not so happy in its result. It caused much excitement at the time and is
not yet forgotten. A case which came before the Executive Council a few days after Mosely's
is a good illustration of the care taken in such cases. Jesse Happy, a slave in Kentucky, had
made his escape to Canada, stealing a horse with which he outran his pursuers. Knowing the
indisposition of the Canadian authorities to return fugitives from slavery, the Governor of
Kentucky undertook to have this fugitive extradited on the ground that he was charged with
a felony in that commonwealth. It appeared that the real object of the application from Kentucky
was not so much to bring Happy to trial for the alleged felony as to reduce him again to a
state of slavery. In the report of the Attorney General reference was made to an application
for extradition in a case in which the offence had been recently committed, and because of
this fact the requisition was honored. In the case of Jesse Happy, however, the alleged offence
had been committed four years prior to making an effort to have him extradited. No process
had been issued in the State of Kentucky nor had any steps been taken to punish him for felony.

As the delivery of the slave under these circumstances would subject him to a double penalty,
the one of being punished for the crime and the other of being returned to a state of slavery
even if he should be acquitted, the Canadian authorities were in a dilemma; for punishment
of the felony was in strict accordance with the statutes of Canada whereas the enslavement
of the fugitive was in direct opposition to the genius of its institutions and the spirit of
its laws. He accordingly had it submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown. The opinion of
these officers Sir John Campbell and Sir Robert Mousey Rolfe appears from a letter from W.T.H.
Fox Strangeways, Parliamentary Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs addressed February 25,
1838, to Sir George Gray of the Colonial Department. This officer said:

"I have received and laid before Viscount Palmerston your Letter to me of the 6 December 1837
with its accompanying copy of a Dispatch from Sir Francis Head, in which that officer requests
Instructions for his guidance, in the general case of Fugitive Slaves who, having escaped to
Canada may be demanded from the Canadian Authorities by the Authorities of the United States
on the plea of their having committed crimes in the last mentioned Country and in the particular
case of Jesse Happy, who having escaped to Upper Canada more than four years ago, had been
demanded from the Lieut. Governor of that Province, upon the ground of a charge of Horse Stealing.

"These two questions have by direction of Lord Palmerston been submitted to the Law Officers
of the Crown, and I am directed by his Lordship to state to you the opinion of these officers
for the information of Lord Glenelg.

"The Law Officers report upon the general question, that they think that no distinction should
in the case contemplated, be made between the demand for Slaves or for Freemen.

"It is the opinion of the Law Officers that in every case in which there is such Evidence of
criminality as, according to the terms of the Canadian Statutes, would warrant the apprehension
of the accused Party, if the alleged offence had been committed in Canada, then on the requisition
of the Governor of the Foreign State, the accused Party ought to be delivered up, without reference
to the question as to whether he is or is not a Slave.

"The Law Officers desire however that it should be distinctly understood, that the Evidence
for this Purpose must be evidence taken in Canada, upon which (if false) the Parties making
it may be indicted for Perjury.

"The Law Officers remark further on this point that the 3rd Section of the Provincial Statute
enables the Governor to refuse to deliver up a Party, whenever special circumstances may render
it inexpedient to accede to the demand made to the Governor on such a point.

"The Law Officers, reporting upon the subject of Jesse Happy state that they do not think that
there was in that case such evidence of criminality, as, according to the Laws of the Province
of Upper Canada would warrant the apprehension of Jesse Happy if the offence charged had been
committed in U. Canada.

"The Law Officers indeed go farther, and say that so far as there is any evidence of the Facts,
what took place was not Horse Stealing according to the Laws of Upper Canada, but merely an
unauthorized use of a horse, without any intention of appropriating it.

"The Law Officers conclude by, stating, that upon these grounds, they are of opinion, that
Jesse Happy ought to be set at liberty, and that instructions to that effect should be sent
to the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada."[21]

On the ninth of May Glenelg wrote to Sir George Arthur who succeeded Bond Head as Lieutenant
Governor of Upper Canada, saying: "With reference to my Dispatch to Sir Francis Bond Head of
the 4th December last No 255, I enclose for your information the copy of a letter from the
Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs stating the substance of the opinion given by
the Law Officers of the Crown in respect to the restitution of Fugitive Slaves who may be demanded
from the Government of Upper Canada on the plea of their having committed crimes at the places
from which they have fled. In conformity with the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown
I have to desire that Jessie Happy, the individual with respect to whom this question was raised
shall be forthwith set at liberty."

It is impossible not to see that the very stringent rules laid down by the Law Officers of
the Crown at Westminster were intended to be in favorem libertatis. Happy was released November
14th, 1837, and so far as appears from the official records no further application was ever
made for the extradition of a runaway slave until after 1842.

[2] Whitney's first patent was 1784. His rights were firmly established in 1807.

[3] Landon, Canada's Part in Freeing the Slave, Ontario Historical Society, Papers, etc. (1919),
quoting Birney's James G. Birney and His Times, p. 435.

Mr. Landon's paper is of great interest and value and I gladly avail myself of the permission
to use it.

[7] Souvenirs of the Past, by William Lewis Baby, Windsor, Ontario, 1896. Mr. Baby is a member
of an old French-Canadian family of the highest repute for honor and public service. Charles
Baby was the author's brother. The author lived with him and tells the story of his own knowledge.
The quotations are from Mr. Baby's book.

[8] As was done in the case of Solomon Mosely, spoken of infra, p.

[9] I have not been able to verify other tales of attempted abduction to my satisfaction, there
are, however, several stories which may be true.

[10] Canadian Archives Sundries, U. C., 1819.

[11] John Beverley Robinson was the son of Christopher Robinson mentioned above.

[13] This is the Act (1833), 3 Will IV, c. 7 (U. C.).

The Act of 1833 was drawn by Chief Justice Robinson and introduced by him into the Legislative
Council of which he was Speaker--it was a "Government measure." Notice of bringing in the bill
was given November 28, 1832; the bill brought in November 30; read the second time December
3 passed the committee of the whole on the fourth of December and was finally passed by the
Council the following day. It reached the Legislative Assembly the same day where it was passed
without opposition and received the Royal Assent February 13, 1833.

[14] At the meeting were present His Excellency Sir John Colborne, K. C. B. Lieutenant Governor,
the Hon. and Rev. John Strachan, D.D., Archdeacon of York, the Honorable Peter Robinson, the
Honorable George Herchmer Markland, the Honorable Joseph Fells, and the Honorable John Elmsley.
The Executive Council at that time was very much under the influence of the Chief Justice and
Dr. Strachan, then Archdeacon afterwards the first Anglican Bishop of York or Toronto.

[15] Robert Sympson Jameson an English barrister of the Middle Temple, a familiar friend of
Coleridge and Southey and the husband of Anna Jameson of some literary note.

The report is from the Canadian Archives, State J., p. 137.

[16] The Executive Council on September 7th 1837 recommended his extradition. The following
is a copy of the Proceedings:

     EXECUTIVE COUNCIL CHAMBER AT TORONTO Thursday 7th September 1837

                     REQUISITION FOR SOLOMON MOSELY

     Read the Requisition of the Governor of the State of Kentucky and
     other documents relating to the surrender of Solomon Mosely a
     fugitive from the State of Kentucky charged with Horse stealing.

     Read also the Attorney General opinion thereon as follows:

                                   ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE
                                   TORONTO 6th September 1837

     Sir,

     I have the honor to report that in my opinion there is sufficient
     proof of the guilt of Solomon alias John Mosely a fugitive from
     the State of Kentucky charged with horse stealing in that
     Country--to Warrant His Excellency the Lieutenant Governor (with
     the advice of the Executive Council) to deliver him up upon the
     request made by the Governor of the State referred to.

                    I have the honor to be &c
                               (Signed) CS HAGERMAN, Atty, Gen

     J JOSEPH ESQ,

     Civil Secretary.

     The Council concur in the above opinion of the Attorney General
     and consider that the case comes within 3rd Wm 4 Ch 7 and
     therefore advise His Excellency the Lieutenant Governor to
     deliver up the Fugitive alluded to in the requisition of His
     Excellency the Governor of the State of Kentucky.

     --Can. Arch. State J. Upper Canada, p. 595.

In a despatch from Head to Lord Glenelg, October 8, 1837, Can. Arch. 398, p. 149, Head says:
"In a case brought before me only a few days previous to that which is the subject of this
communication (i.e., the Jesse Happy case) I insisted on giving up to the Governor of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky (a slave) who in order to effect his escape had been guilty of stealing his Master's
horse." It was suggested that the real object was to get him back to his Master--not to punish
him for the crime. But the crime was perfectly proved and the Council followed the judicial
opinion in the Thornton Blackburn case that as the black had been shown to have committed an
offence clearly coming within the statute of 1833, they could not advise a course to be taken
"different from that which should be pursued with respect to free white persons under the same
circumstances." They, therefore, advised an order for extradition.

[19] Present, Allen, Hon. Augustus Baldwin and Hon. William Henry Draper (afterwards Chief
Justice of the Court of Common Pleas, 1856, Chief Justice of the Province of Upper Canada,
1863, and President of the Court of Error and Appeal 1868 till his death, 1877).

[20] Canadian Archives State J., p. 597.

[21] Canadian Archives, G. 84, p. 277. The letter to Sir George Arthur is ibid., G. 84, p.
275. The despatch from Lord Glenelg to Sir Francis Bond Head dated January 4, 1837, has endorsed
on it a pencil memorandum "Jesse Happy has been liberated by Lieutenant Governor's command
November 14, 1837," ibid., G. 83, p. 238.

[22] Concluded at Washington, August 9, 1842.

[27] The case is reported in (1860) 20 U. Can. Q.B., pp. 124-123. The warrant is given at pp.
192, 193.

[29] Common Law of course, not Chancery.

[31] Canadian Archives, Sundries U.C., 1807.

It would be unfair to the United States to say or suggest that all the flights for freedom
were in the one direction. Very early trouble was experienced by Canadian owners of slaves
from their running away to the United States. The following letter tells its own story.

In the Life and Adventures of Wilson Benson, written by himself (Toronto, 1876), is found the
following, pp. 34-36:

"In 1849 I shipped on the schooner Rose of Milton, Capt. Hamilton, cruising on Lakes Ontario
and Erie. In one trip to the town of Erie, Pennsylvania, for a cargo of coal, while lying at
the dock, a diminutive negro man, with a white beard, came on board the vessel, and inquiried
of me if this was a British vessel. On being informed that it was, he desired to be secreted,
stating that he was a runaway slave, and that his pursuers were on his track. I at once secreted
him in a closet which served as a store-room for vegetables, &c., and as we were almost ready
to set sail, I did not discover his presence to either Captain or crew until we were some distance
out on the lake. When he appeared, Capt. Hamilton inquired of me where I had obtained 'that
child,' and on being informed, expressed some anxiety, as we were liable to be captured had
we been followed by a steamer. As it was, he merely looked up at the rigging, and exclaimed,
'Blow, breezes, blow!' The negro, who knew no other name than 'Sambo' we brought to Toronto.
On one occasion, when I offered him some molasses, he shook his head and made grimaces expressive
of disgust. He informed me that the slaves employed on the sugar plantations, when beaten by
their masters, in order to obtain an indirect revenge, spat in the syrup, and committed other
filthy things as an imaginary punishment upon the whites. I frequently saw Sambo in Toronto,
and many times he expressed thankfulness to me for his deliverance. I may here mention that
shortly after the arrival of Sambo on board the Rose of Milton at Erie, two suspicious-looking
men, dressed in plain clothes, came aboard and paced up and down the deck several times, and
as all the crew were absent at the time, I felt some apprehenson for the safety of the poor
fugitive; but seeing nothing of a suspicious appearance, and the almost entire absence of the
crew, they sauntered away. I made several other trips up and down the lakes during that summer
on the same vessel."

History does not bear out this idyll; but whatever their faults, at least the Acadians had
the negative virtue of possessing no slaves,[1] Panis or Negro: nor was it until the coming
of the people whose native air was too pure for a slave that the curse came upon the land.

The permanent settlement by the English of Acadia may fairly be considered as beginning when
in 1749 Cornwallis founded Halifax.[2] Negro slaves were among the population of Halifax from
the beginning or very shortly after. Where they came from is uncertain and it has been suggested
that they came with the original settlers across the ocean. In the absence of any other explanation
more plausible, this might be accepted. Lord Mansfield's decision in the Somerset case was
a quarter of a century in the future. But it seems more probable that they were brought from
the English Colonies, and some almost certainly were.

The official records of the country exhibit much evidence to this effect. In September, 1751,
the Boston Evening Post advertised "Just arrived from Halifax and to be sold, ten strong hearty,
Negro men mostly tradesman, such as caulkers, carpenters, sailmakers and ropemakers.[3] Any
person wishing to purchase may enquire of Benjamin Halliwell of Boston." Such an advertisement
indicates that shipbuilding was slack at Halifax and more brisk at Boston. A conjecture may
be hazarded that these slaves had been taken by their master to Halifax to build ships and
then returned to the colony when required no longer in Acadia.

Some such conjecture receives a little assistance from a will still on record in Halifax. It
was made February 28, 1752, by Thomas Thomas "late of New York but now of Halifax" and disposed
of his "goods, chattels and negros" including one bequest to this effect: "all my plate and
my negro servant Orange that now lives with me at Halifax, I leave and bequeath to my son."

In the same year, The Halifax Gazette of May 15 contains the advertisement "Just imported and
to be sold by Joshua Mauger at Major Lockman's store in Halifax, several Negro slaves as follows:
A woman aged 35, two boys aged 12 and 13 respectively, two of 18 and a man aged 30." Likewise
two healthy negro slaves of about 18 years of age, of agreeable tempers and fit for any kind
of business: And also a healthy negro man of about 30 years of age." In September 1759, a Halifax
merchant, Malachy Salter wrote to his wife then visiting relatives in Boston informing her
of the state of the family, saying that "Jack is Jack still but rather worse. I am obliged
to exercise the cat or stick almost every day. I believe Halifax don't afford another such
idle, deceitful villain"--"Pray purchase a Negro boy if possible."

In the year of the surrender of Montreal, the Halifax Gazette, November 1, 1760, advertised
"To be sold at public auction on Monday the 3rd of November, at the house of Mr. John Rider,
two slaves, viz., a boy and a girl, about 11 years old; likewise a puncheon of choice cherry
brandy with sundry other articles."

Some legal sanction, moreover, was given slavery. A General Assembly the first Elective Legislature
in what is now Canada, met at Halifax in 1757. In 1762 the second session of the third General
Assembly passed an act[4] which seems not to have received very much attention from legists[5]
and writers. It contains a recognition of slavery. In July, 1767, Charles Proctor of Halifax
sold Louisa, a "Mulotta" girl, to Mary Wood of Annapolis for £15 currency[7] and next year
Mary Wood assigned the girl to her daughter Mrs. Mary Day. In June, 1767, James Simonds of
the St. John River wrote to Hazen and Jarvis at Newburyport, Massachusetts, a letter in which
he complains of "that rascal negro, West" who cannot be got to do a quarter of a man's work.
In an advertisement in a Halifax paper in 1769 are offered for sale to the highest bidder "two
hogsheads of rum, three of sugar and two well-grown negro girls aged 14 and 12." Those were
clearly a consignment from the West Indies. The executors of John Margerum of Halifax deceased,
in their accounts give credit for £29.9.4.1/2 "net proceeds of a negro boy sold at Carolina."
In 1770 the executors of Joseph Gerrish of Halifax lost £30 on the sale of three Negroes for
£150 to Richard Williams and Abraham Constable, the Negroes having been appraised at £180:
and a Negro boy named John Fame was not then sold. In April 1770, Mrs. Martha Prichard of Halifax,
widow, bequeathed to her daughter, wife of Moses Delesdernier a Negro slave woman named Jessie.
If Mrs. Delesdernier did not wish to retain the slave, she was to be sold and the proceeds
of the sale given to Mrs. Delesdernier. If she kept her, the slave at the death of Mrs. Delesdernier
was to be the property of her son Ferdinand. By the same instrument the testatrix bequeathed
to her grand-daughter a mulatto slave John Patten two and a half years old.

By the census of the year 1771 the Rev. James Lyon, the first Presbyterian Minister in Nova
Scotia, is shown to have owned a colored boy, the only Negro in the township of Onslow and
John Young in the township of Amherst also a Negro boy, the only one in the township. In Annapolis,
Magdalen Winnett owned a man, woman and girl; Joseph Winnett owned a woman and a boy; Ebenezer
Messenger and Ann Williams each a man, and John Stork of Granville owned a man the only Negro
in the township; and Henry Evans of Annapolis had the previous year owned a colored girl.

Jacob Hurd of Halifax offered in 1773 a reward of £5 for the apprehension of his runaway Negro,
Cromwell, a "short thick set strong fellow," strongly pock marked "especially on the nose"
and wearing a green cloth jacket and a cocked hat. In July 1773, in the Nova Scotia Gazette
and Weekly Chronicle the executor and executrix of Joseph Pierpont of Halifax advertised "a
Negro named Prince to be sold at private sale." This perhaps indicated a repugnance to offering
human beings for sale by auction. In the Nova Scotia Gazette and Weekly Chronicle, March 27,
1775 is an advertisement for the sale of a "likely well-made negro boy about 16 year old."

In the inventory of the estate of the late John Rock appeared in 1776 a Negro woman named Thursday.
She was inventoried at £25 but sold for £20. In this year also a Windsor farmer, Joseph Wilson
left by will two Negro women Byna and Sylla to his wife. In January 1779 the Nova Scotia Gazette
and Weekly Chronicle advertised for sale an able Negro woman, about 21 year old, "capable of
performing both town and country work and an exceedingly good cook." In the same year Daniel
Stratford of Halifax left to his wife a Negro man slave Adam for life, after her death to become
the property of his daughter Sarah Lawson. Matthew Harris of Picton sold for £50 to Matthew
Archibald of Truro, tanner, a "Negro boy named Abram, about 12 years of age" born of Harris'
Negro slave in Harris' house in Maryland.

In 1780 rewards were offered, one of 3 guineas, for the apprehension and delivery at the office
of the Commanding Officer of Engineers at Halifax of two runaway Negro men; another "a handsome
reward to be paid for securing in any gaol a Negro boy Mungo about 14 years old and well built"--the
owner Benjamin De Wolfe of Windsor to be notified. That year the executors of Colonel Henry
Denny Denson of West Falmouth debit themselves with £75 received for "Spruce," £60 for "John"
and £30 for "Juba" and credit themselves with £2.11.6 paid for taking two of these to Halifax
probably for sale there.

Abel Michener of Falmouth advertised in 1781 a reward of £5 for the capture of a Negro named
James; and Samuel Mack of Port Medway wanted a Negro named "Chance" returned.

Richard Wenman of Halifax in September of that year agreed to give his Negro, Cato, his liberty
"if he will faithfully serve my said daughter, Elizabeth Susannah Pringle two years." Captain
Wilson of the transport Friends requested in 1782 that masters of vessels will not ship as
a seaman his runaway Negro lad Ben, saying: "He is my own property."

There is no need for further particularization; for we now come to the year of the definitive
peace between the mother country and the new republic. As in the upper country so by the sea
there was a great influx of Loyalists, accompanied in many instances by their slaves. Thereafter
sales, advertisements for auctions, rewards for runaway slaves, bequests of slaves, &c., are
very common and there were some manumissions. That, however, was not the cause of the great
increase in the Negro population of the Maritime Province. The Island of St. John, afterwards
Prince Edward Island had been set off as a separate province in 1769 but the Province of Nova
Scotia included what became the Province of New Brunswick until 1786.

During the Revolutionary War, the British commanders, Sir Henry Clinton in particular, had
made it a point to invite the slaves to the British line and many had accepted the invitation.
No few of these refugees were of material service to the British troops in various ways both
menial and otherwise. At the peace Washington demanded the return of these quondam slaves.[8]
Sir Guy Carleton refused but made a careful inventory of them with full description, name,
former master, etc., so that Washington might claim compensation from the British Government,
if he saw fit.[9] In addition to these slaves somewhere about 3,000 freed Negroes accompanied
the British troops on their withdrawal from New York, nearly all coming to Nova Scotia. Many
of these after suffering great hardships were sent to Sierra Leone on the West Coast of Africa
in 1792. Some remained in the province where their descendants are found until this day; but
not in any very great numbers. The Loyalists, however, retained their property in their own
slaves; and immigration was encouraged by the Act of 1790.[10]

The trade in Negroes was very brisk for some years. On December 11, 1783, Captain Alexander
Campbell late of the South Carolina Loyalists sold to Captain Thomas Green late of the Royal
Nova Scotia Foot a Negro woman named Nancy for £40. Nancy two years later was sold by Green
to Abraham Forst of Halifax and a year later still with her child Tom to Gregory Townsend.

A shipment was made by John Wentworth from Halifax to Surinam, Dutch Guiana, of nineteen Negro
slaves, "all American born or well seasoned ... perfectly stout, healthy, sober, orderly, industrious
and obedient." These, said he, "I have had christened and would rather have liberated them
than send them to any estate that I am not sure of their being treated with care and humanity
which I shall consider as the only favour that can be done to me on this occasion" by his correspondent.[11]

On October 29, 1787, John Rapalje, a Royalist, sent from Brookligne (Brookland or Brooklyn
Ferry) to George Leonard by desire of his (R's) father a Negro woman named Eve about 35 years
and her child named Suke about 15 to sell as he himself cannot go to Nova Scotia. Eve was one
of the best servants "perfectly sober, honest" and the only fault she had was her near sight.

The records show occasional manumission also. In 1784 the inventory of the estate of John Porter
late of Cornwallis, a Negro man is valued at £80. That same year Charles Montague of Halifax
says: "I have only one Negro, named Francis; he is to have his freedom." In May 1787, Margaret
Murray, widow of Halifax by her will manumitted her two Negro women Marianne and Flora; and
(when he was 21) her Negro boy Brutus. From the records of a trial at Shelburne, in a magistrate's
court in 1788 it appears that one Jesse Gray of Argyle had sold a Negro woman for 100 bushels
of potatoes. At a trial the ownership by Gray was proved and the sale confirmed.

We now come to the times of a Chief Justice whose heart was set on destroying slavery in the
province of Nova Scotia, therein wholly differing from the Chief Justice of New Brunswick,
George Duncan Ludlow, who had received his appointment on the separation of that province in
1784. The forward-looking jurist was Thomas Andrew Strange who became Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court in 1791.[12] The same impulse for liberty which about this time was noted in
the upper country manifested itself from time to time by the sea. Slaves ran away from their
masters; the masters pursued and imprisoned them. Some blacks claimed freedom without fleeing.
When a writ of habeas corpus came up in the Supreme Court, Chief Justice Strange did his best
to avoid giving a decision. He knew that slavery was lawful but he knew it was detestable and
he pursued a course which did not require him to stultify himself but which would nevertheless
confer substantial benefits upon the black claiming liberty.

He endeavored in every case to bring the parties to an agreement to sign articles whereby the
master would have the services of the Negro for a stated time, after the expiration of which
the Negro received his freedom. When the master refused this, as sometimes there was a refusal,
the Chief Justice required the matter to be tried by a jury, which usually found for the Negro.[13]

The practice adopted was like the practice in cases of alleged villenage in England. It was
recognized that slavery might exist in Nova Scotia, but it was made as difficult as possible
for the master to succeed on the facts. Except the act already mentioned there was no statute
recognizing slavery and an attempt in 1787 to incorporate such a recognition in the statute
law failed of success by a large majority. The existing act, too, was given what seems a very
forced and unnatural interpretation so as to emasculate it of any authority in that regard.

Salter Sampson Blowers, the Attorney General, fully agreed with the Chief Justice's plan. On
one occasion he threatened to prosecute a person for sending a Negro out of the province against
his will.[14] The Negro managed to get back and the master acknowledged his right, so that
no proceedings were necessary. After a number of verdicts for the alleged slaves, masters were
generally very willing to enter into articles whereby the slave after serving faithfully for
a fixed number of years was given his freedom.

After Blowers became Chief Justice, 1797,[15] he continued Chief Justice Strange's practice
with marked results. In one case of which he tells where he had discharged a black woman from
the Annapolis gaol on habeas corpus and an action had been brought, the plaintiff proved that
he had bought her in New York; but the Chief Justice held that he had not proved the right
of the seller so to dispose of her and directed the jury to find for the defendant which they
promptly did.

Slavery continued, however. Almost every year we find records of sales, advertisements for
runaway slaves, bequests of slaves, &c, till almost the end of the first decade of the 19th
century, the latest known bill of sale is dated March 21, 1807 and transfers a "Negro Woman
named Nelly of the age of twenty five or thereabout." It was, however, decadent and from about
the beginning of the 19th century was quite as much to the advantage of the Negro in many cases
as that of the master.

A final effort to legalize slavery in Nova Scotia was made in 1808. Mr. Warwick, member for
Digby Township, presented a petition from John Taylor and other slave owners setting up that
the doubts entertained by the courts rendered their property useless and that the slaves were
deserting and defying their masters. They asked for an act securing them their property or
indemnifying them for their loss. Thomas Ritchie member for Annapolis introduced a bill to
regulate Negro servants within the province. The bill passed its second reading January 11,
1808, but failed to become law; and the attempt was never renewed.

New Brunswick was separated from Nova Scotia in 1784. The Chief Justice of that province was
not as averse from slavery as his brother of Nova Scotia. One of the most interesting and celebrated
cases came before the Supreme Court of New Brunswick in Hilary Term, February 1800. Captain
Stair Agnew who had been an officer in the Queen's Rangers settled opposite Fredericton. He
was a man much thought of as is shown by his being chosen for thirty years to represent York
County in the Legislature. He owned a slave Nancy Morton[16] who claimed her freedom and whom
apparently he had put in charge of one Caleb Jones. A writ of habeas corpus was obtained directed
to Jones and the matter was arranged to be argued before the full court of four judges. For
the applicant appeared Ward Chipman[17] and Samuel Denny Street for the master, Jonathan Bliss,
Attorney General of the province, Thomas Wetmore, John Murray Bliss, Charles J. Peters and
Witham Botsford, all men of ability and eminence. On the Bench were Chief Justice Ludlow and
Puisne Justices Allen, Upham and Saunders.

The addresses of the Attorney-General and Mr. Chipman are extant. The former divided his speech
into thirty-two heads; the latter took eighty pages of foolscap for his. The arguments were
extremely able and exhaustive,[18] everything in history, morals and decided cases being brought
to bear. The case took two full days to argue and after careful consideration the court divided
equally, the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Upham affirming the right of the master and Mr.
Justice Allan and Mr. Justice Saunders held for the alleged slave.

The return of Jones to the writ was that Nancy "was at the time of her birth and ever since
hath been a female Negro slave or servant for life born of an African Negro slave and before
the removal of the said Caleb Jones from Mary Land to New Brunswick was and became by purchase
the lawful and proper Negro slave or servant for life of him the said Caleb Jones ..., that
the said Caleb Jones in the year of our Lord 1785 brought and imported the said ... Nancy his
Negro slave or servant for life into the Province of New Brunswick ... and has always hitherto
held the said ... Nancy as his proper Negro slave or servant for life ... or by laws he has
good right and authority to do...."[19]

The Chief Justice based his opinion on what he called the "Common Law of the Colonies"--and
although that expression was ridiculed at the time and has been since, there is no difficulty
in understanding it. He meant custom recognized as law not contained in an express legislative
enactment. In that sense a modern lawyer will agree that he was right. Practically all the
English colonies had slavery thoroughly recognized and often without or before legislation;
and all the well known legal maxims asserted the cogency of such custom.[20] Mr. Justice Allen
considered that no human power could justify slavery--and his brother Saunders agreed with
him. It would seem that these judges were concerned with what the law should be, the others
with what it actually was.[21]

In the result the return was held sufficient and the master had his slave. But the decision
of the divided court had its effect. Agnew reconveyed Nancy to William Bailey from whom he
had bought her and she bound herself to serve for fifteen years, then to receive her freedom.[22]
The result of this case was that while slavery was not formally abolished, it before many years
practically ceased to exist.[23]

Prince Edward Island was called Isle St. Jean until 1798. In this island slavery had the same
history as in the other maritime provinces. Shortly after the peace Negro slaves were brought
into the Island by their United Empire Loyalist masters. As late as 1802 we find recorded the
sale of "a Mulatto boy three years old called Simon" for £20, Halifax currency, then £18 sterling,
and a gift of "one Mulatto girl about five years of age named Catherine." We also find Governor
Fanning (1786-1804), freeing his two slaves and giving one of them, Shepherd, a farm.

In Cape Breton which was separate from 1784 to 1820, Negro slaves were found as early as the
former date: "Cesar Augustus, a slave and Darius Snider, black folks, married 4th September
1788," "Diana Bestian a Negro girl belonging to Abraham Cuyler Esq" was buried September 15,
1792 and a Negro slave was killed in 1791 by a blow from a spade when trying to force his way
into a public ball in Sydney.[24] In this province, too, slavery met the same fate.

There is now to be mentioned an interesting series of circumstances.[25] During the War of
1812-15 the British navy occupied many bays and rivers in United States territory and in some
cases troops were landed where there was a slave population. These forces came into possession
of many slaves, mostly voluntary fugitives, some seduced and some taken by violence from their
masters. Admiral Cochrane in April 1814 issued a proclamation inviting all those who might
be disposed to emigrate from the United States for the purpose of becoming free settlers in
some of "His Majesty's Colonies" to come with their families on board of the British men of
war and offering them the choice of joining the British forces or being sent as free settlers
to a British possession. He did not say "slaves" but no one could mistake the meaning.[26]
Negroes came in droves. Some were taken to the Bahamas and the Bermudas where their descendants
are to be found until this day; many were taken to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.[27]

When the Treaty of Peace was concluded at Ghent, December 24, 1814 the United States did not
forget the slaves who had got away from the home of liberty. Article 1 provided for the delivery
up of all places taken by either party without carrying away any property captured "or any
slaves or other private property." The United States demanded the restoration of "all slaves
and other private property which may now be in possession of the forces of His Britannic Majesty."
The British officers refused to surrender the slaves contending that the real meaning of the
treaty did not cover the case. At length in 1818 a convention was entered into that it should
be left to the Emperor of Russia[28] to decide whether the United States by the true intent
of Article 1 was entitled to the restitution or full compensation for the slaves.

In 1822 the Emperor decided in favor of the United States. Thereupon the next year (1824) a
mixed commission of two commissioners and two arbitrators determined the average value to be
allowed as compensation;[29] for slaves taken from Louisiana $580: from Alabama Georgia and
South Carolina, $390; from Virginia, Maryland and all other States $280.

The commissioners adjourned for the purpose of enabling evidence to be obtained as to the numbers.
Clay submitted to the British Government that 3601 slaves had been taken away but was willing
for a settlement to accept the price of 1650. Britain declined, but the commissioners failed
to agree and finally by diplomacy in 1827 Britain agreed to pay £250,000 or $1,204,960 in full
for slaves and other property. Thus Britain assured the freedom of more than 3,000 slaves and
paid for them, a fitting prelude to the great Act of 1833 whereby she freed 800,000 slaves
and paid £20,000,000 for the privilege.[30]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] So far at all events as appears from any records that I have seen it is just possible however
that "La Liberté, le neigre" mentioned in de Meulles' Census of Acadia in 1696 was a black
slave, notwithstanding his name.

[2] From 1720 on, Annapolis Royal had a fairly firm government and settlement but it was not
until Halifax was founded that it became certain that the country would remain English.

[4] (1762) 2 George III, c. 1 (N. S.), Statutes at Large, Nova Scotia, Halifax, 1805, p. 77.

[5] It is referred to in a letter from Ward Chipman to Chief Justice Blowers to be mentioned
later. See post, p.

[6] This Act was continued in 1784 by (1784) 24 George III, c. 14 (N. S.). Statutes at Large,
Nova Scotia, p. 238.

[7] "Halifax currency" was at this time nine-tenths of Sterling £10 currency = £9 sterling
and the 5/ dollar being 4/6 sterling.

Sir Guy Carleton claimed that the Negroes who had taken refuge in the British lines at once
lost their status of slavery and became free. They were "not Negroes or other property of the
American," a rather technical not to say finely drawn distinction but in favorem libertatis;
and in any event Britain would not betray the helpless who had put their faith in her.

[9] Washington did make a claim; but the United States had not carried out its part of the
contract and Britain would not and never did pay. Jones' Loyalist History of New York, Vol.
2. p. 256, says that the number of Negroes who found shelter in the British lines was 2000
at least; probably this is an underestimate. Hay's Historical Reading at p. 249 gives the number
of Negroes who came into Nova Scotia with their Masters at least 3000--and of free Negroes
1522 at Shelburne, 182 at St. John River. 270 at Guysborough, 211 in Annapolis County, and
a smaller number at other places. 1200 were sent to Sierre Leone in 1792.

[10] See ante, p. --. The Negro population in 1784 estimated at about 3000 was included in
the 28,347 of Disbanded Troops and Loyalists called New Inhabitants, Can. Arch., Report for
1885, p. 10. There were some free Negroes in various companies of the British forces in one
capacity or another.

[11] The Negroes sent were Abraham, James, Lymas, Cyrus, John, Isaac, Quako, January, Priscella,
Rachel, Venus, Daphne, Ann, Dorothy and four children Celia, William, Venus, Eleanora--reserving
Matthew and Susannah at home. All these had been christened, February 11, 1784. "Isaac is a
thorough good carpenter and master sawyer, perfectly capable of overseeing and conducting the
rest and strictly honest; Lymas is a rough carpenter and sawyer; Quako is a field negro has
met with an accident in his arm which will require some indulgence. The other men are sawyers
and John also a good axeman. Abraham has been used to cattle and to attend in the house, &c.
All the men are expert in boats. The women are stout and able and promise well to increase
their numbers. Venus is useful in the hospital, poultry yard, gardens, etc. Upon the whole
they are a most useful lot of Negroes."

John Wentworth, last Royalist Governor of New Hampshire and afterwards Sir John Wentworth,
Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, doubtless believed himself to be a good man and a good
Christian.

The story of Eve and Suke infra is told by Archdeacon Raymond, 3 N. B. Mag., 1899, p. 221.

[12] He went to England in 1796 (it was said, for a visit) resigned his position in Nova Scotia,
was Knighted and appointed Recorder of Fort St. George, Bombay, India.

[13] A collateral ancestor of my own, the Reverend Archibald Riddell, had the advantage of
a similar proceeding a century before. Being apprehended for taking part in the uprising of
the Covenanters in Scotland he was given (or sold) with others to a Scottish Laird who chartered
a vessel and proceeded to take his human chattels to America for sale. The plague broke out
on the ship, the Laird and his wife died of it as did some of the crew. When the ship reached
New Jersey, there being no master, the "slaves" escaped up country. The Laird's son-in-law
and personal representative came to America and claimed Riddell and others. The governor called
a jury to determine whether they were slaves and the jury promptly found in their favor. Riddell
preached in New Jersey until the Revolution of 1688 made it safe for him to return to Scotland.
Juries in such cases are liable to what Blackstone calls "pious perjury." All this practice
was based upon the common law proceedings when a claim was made of villenage. When a person
claimed to be the lord of a villein who had run away and remained outside the manor unto which
he was regardant, he sued out a writ of neif, that is, de nativo habendo. The sheriff took
the writ and if the nativus admitted that he was villein to the lord who claimed him, he was
delivered by the sheriff to the lord of the manor; but if he claimed to be free, the sheriff
should not seize him but the Lord was compelled to take out a Pone to have the matter tried
before the Court of Common Pleas or the Justices in Eyre, that is, the assizes. Or the alleged
villein might himself sue out a writ of libertate probanda: and until trial of the case the
lord could not seize the alleged villein. The curious will find the whole subject dealt with
in Fitzherbert's Natura Brevium, pp. 77 sqq.

[14] This is very much like the Chloe Cooley case in Upper Canada. I do not know what form
the prosecution could possibly take if the Negro was in fact a slave. See Chapter V, note 5 ante.

[15] It is said that August 1797 was the date of the last public slave sale at Montreal, that
of Emmanuel Allen for £36.

The last advertisement for sale by auction of a slave in the Maritime Provinces seems to be
that in The Royal Gazette and Nova Scotia Advertiser of September 7, 1790, where William Millet
of Halifax offers for sale by auction September 9 "A stout likely negro man and sundry other
articles."

In 1802 the census showed that there were 451 Blacks in Halifax; in 1791 there were 422.

Dr. T. Watson Smith says in a paper "Slavery in Canada" republished in "Canadian History,"
No. 12, December, 1900, at p. 321.

"About 1806, so Judge Marshall has stated, a master and his slave were taken before Chief Justice
Blowers on a writ of habeas corpus. When the case and the question of slavery in general had
been pretty well argued on each side, the Chief Justice decided that slavery had no legal place
in Nova Scotia."

I have not been able to trace such a decision and cannot think that it has been correctly reported.
Dr. Smith is wholly justified in his statement "there is good ground for the opinion that this
baneful system was never actually abolished in the present Canadian Provinces until the vote
of the British Parliament and the signature of King William IV in 1833 rendered it illegal
throughout the British Empire."

[16] J. Allen Jack, Q. C., D. C., L., of St. John, New Brunswick, gives a full account of this
case from which (and similar sources) most of the facts are taken. In a paper read before the
Royal Society of Canada May 26, 1898, Trans. R. S. Can., 1898, pp. 137 sqq., Dr. Jack conjectures
that Nancy Morton is the Negro female slave conveyed by bill of sale registered in the office
of the Register of Deeds, St. John's, N. B. Slaves were treated as realty as regards fieri
facias under the Act of 1732 (see ante, p. --) and at least "savoured of the realty." The bill
of sale registered January 31, 1791, was dated November 13, 1778, and was executed by John
Johnson of the Township of Brooklyn in King's County, Long Island, Province of New York. It
conveyed with a covenant to warrant and defend title to Samuel Duffy, Innkeeper for £40 currency
(say $100) "a certain negro female about fourteen years of age and goes by the name of Nancy,"
pp. 141, 142. However that may be, Stair Agnew bought Nancy from William Bailey of the County
of York in the Province of New Brunswick for £40 with full warranty of title as a slave.

[17] He was born in Boston in 1753, the son of John Chipman, a member of the Bar. Graduating
at Harvard, he joined the Boston Bar and practised in that City until 1776. After the Peace
he went to England and in 1784 sailed for New Brunswick of which he was appointed Solicitor
General. After a quarter of a century of successful practice he was appointed 1808 a puisne
judge of the Supreme Court. He died in February, 1826.

His services to Nancy Morton were given without fee or hope of reward.

[18] That of Mr. Chipman is given in Trans. R. Soc. Can., 1898, pp. 155-184.

[19] It will be seen that the return sets up that Jones bought and owned the slave and the
case was argued on that hypothesis, but the historians say that Captain Stair Agnew was the
owner. The point is not of importance.

[20] Mos regit legem, Mos pro lege, Leges moribus servient, Consuetudo est optimus interpres
legum, custom is the life of the law, custom becomes law, &c., &c. That slavery was necessary
and therefore legal in the American Colonies was admitted in the Somerset case.

[21] The modern lawyer, in my opinion, would find no difficulty in coming to the same conclusion
as the Chief Justice.

Mr. Chipman in his interesting correspondence with Chief Justice Blowers (Trans. R. Soc. Can.,
1898, pp. 148 sqq.) admits that if his opponents had hit upon the Nova Scotia Statute of 1762
as revised in 1783 "the conclusiveness of their reasoning on their principles would have been
considered as demonstrated." He adds: "In searching your laws upon this occasion I found this
clause but carefully avoided mentioning it," which raises a curious question in legal ethics.

[22] The reconveyance to Bailey, a quit claim deed, is witnessed by George Leonard and Thomas
Wetmore and is dated February 22, 1800. The indenture by which Nancy bound herself for fifteen
years is dated February 23, 1800.

If Dr. Jack is right in his conjecture the argument took place when she was 36 and she would
receive her freedom when she was 51. Agnew challenged Judge Allen for some reflection upon
him by the Judge; the challenge was declined and Agnew then challenged Street who accepted--and
they fought a bloodless duel. Street later in 1821 fought a duel with George Ludlow Wetmore
over words which passed on leaving the Court. Wetmore was struck in the head and died in a
few hours. Street was tried and aquitted. One result of this case was that Mr. Justice Upham
freed his slaves. His wife had six inherited from her father and he himself had some, one a
girl born in the East Indies whom he had bought from her master in New York, the master of
a ship, afterwards married a soldier in Colonel Allen's regiment.

[23] What is believed to be the last advertisement for the sale of a slave in any maritime
province is in the New Brunswick Royal Gazette of October 16, 1809 when Daniel Brown offered
for sale Nancy a Negro woman, guaranteeing a good title. The latest offer of a reward for the
apprehension of a runaway slave is said to be in the same paper for July 10, 1816.

[24] For this act the perpetrator was excluded by his masonic lodge; being brought to trial
before the Supreme Court in August 1792 he was "honourably acquitted" and afterwards he was
reinstated by his lodge.

[25] Seldom mentioned and never much boasted of in the United States.

[26] The word Camouflage may be new. The practice antedated humanity.

[27] There is a record of 371 arriving at St. John from Halifax on May 25, 1815, by the Romulus,
who had taken refuge on board the British Men of War in the Chesapeake. The Negro settlement
at Loch Lomond was founded by them.

At the Census of 1824, 1421 "persons of color" were found in New Brunswick. The Very Rev. Archdeacon
Raymond, an excellent authority, thinks most of these "were at one time slaves or the children
of slaves," but many were not slaves in New Brunswick.

Those that were brought by Admiral Cochrane to Halifax became a great burden to the community.
It was proposed in 1815 by the British Government to remove them to a warmer climate, but this
scheme does not seem to have been carried out. By a census taken in 1816 there was found to
be 684 in Halifax and elsewhere in Nova Scotia. In the winter of 1814-15 they had suffered
rather severely from small pox and were vaccinated to prevent its spread. Some were placed
on Melville Island.

[28] Presumably because he had the greatest number of serfs in the world and was, therefore,
the best judge of slaves.

[29] Of course, Britain refused to give up a single fugitive. She could not betray a trust
even of the humblest. She knew that in "the land of the free and the home of the brave" for
the Negro returned to his master, to be brave was to incur torture and death and death alone
could make him free.

[30] The Act (1833) 3, 4 William III, c. 73 (Imp.), passed the House of Commons August 7 and
received the Royal Assent August 28, 1833; and there were no slaves in all the British world
after August, 1838.

CHAPTER VIII

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

The curse of Negro slavery affected the whole English speaking world; and that part of the
world where it was commercially profitable resisted its abolition. The British part of this
world does not need to assert any higher sense of justice and right than had those who lived
in the Northern States; and it may well be that had Negro slave service been as profitable
in Canada as in the Cotton States, the heinousness of the sin might not have been more manifest
here than there. Nevertheless we must not too much minimize the real merit of those who sought
the destruction of slavery. Slaves did not pay so well in Canada as in Georgia, but they paid.

It is interesting to note the various ways in which slavery was met and finally destroyed.
In Upper Canada, the existing slaves, 1793, remained slaves but all those born thereafter were
free, subject to certain conditions of service. There was a statutory recognition of the existing
status and provision for its destruction in the afterborn. This continued slavery though it
much mitigated its severity and secured its downfall in time. But there were slaves in Upper
Canada when the Imperial Act of 1833 came in force. The Act of 1793 was admittedly but a compromise
measure; and beneficial as it was it was a paltering with sin.

In Lower Canada, there was no legislation, and slavery was never formally abolished until the
Imperial Act of 1833; but the courts decided in effect if not in form that a master had no
rights over his slave, and that is tantamount to saying that where there is no master there
is no slave. The reasoning in these cases as in the Somerset case may not recommend itself
to the lawyer but the effect is undoubtedly, "Slaves cannot live in Lower Canada."

In Nova Scotia, there was no decision that slavery did not exist. Indeed the course of procedure
presupposed that it did exist, but the courts were astute to find means of making it all but
impossible for the alleged master to succeed; and slavery disappeared accordingly.

In New Brunswick the decision by a divided court was in favor of the master; but juries were
of the same calibre and sentiments in New Brunswick as in Nova Scotia and the same results
were to be anticipated, if Nova Scotian means were used; and the slave owners gave way.

In the old land, judicial decision destroyed slavery on the British domain; but conscience
and sense of justice and right impelled its destruction elsewhere by statute; and the same
sense of justice and right impelled the Parliament of Great Britain to recompense the owners
for their property thus destroyed. If there be any more altruistic act of any people in any
age of the world's history I have failed to hear or read of it.

In the United States, slavery was abolished as a war measure. Lincoln hating slavery as he
did would never have abolished it, had he not considered it a useful war measure. No compensation
was paid, of course.[1] Everywhere slavery was doomed and in one way or another it has met
a deserved fate.

                                        WILLIAM RENWICK RIDDELL

  JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF ONTARIO,
      OSGOOD HALL, TORONTO,
          February 5, 1920

FOOTNOTES:

[1] I had with the late Hon. Warwick Hough of St. Louis, Missouri, who had been an officer
in the Southern Army, several conversations on the subject of slavery. He gave it as his firm
conviction that, had the South succeeded in the Civil War, it would shortly have itself abolished
slavery and sought readmission to the Union. His proposition was that the power and influence
of the planter class was waning, while the manufacturers, merchants and the like were increasing
in number and influence and they would have for their own protection abolished slavery. I have
not met a Northerner or a Canadian who agreed with this view; but a few Southerners have expressed
to me their general concurrence with my friend's proposition.

BOOK REVIEWS

     Africa and the Discovery of America. Volume I. By LEO WIENER,
     Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard
     University. Innes & Sons, Philadelphia, Pa., 1920. Pp. i-xix,
     1-290.

The present volume is the first of a series in which Professor Wiener will show that Arabicised
Negroes, chiefly Mandingoes, brought to America as slaves, profoundly influenced the culture
of the Indians, and were an important, if not always direct factor in establishing the modus
vivendi between the Indians and the Europeans, which made practicable the colonization of the
New World.

The book is packed with valuable data, newly discovered, and brought together for the first
time. It should be read slowly, and read through at least twice before judgment is passed on
it. With the first reading comes a shock. One learns that the Journal of the First Voyage,
and the First Letter of Columbus are literary frauds, though containing material which came
from Columbus's own pen, and that tobacco, manioc, yams, sweet potatoes and peanuts are not
gifts of the Indian to the European. Yet with a more intimate study of the subject matter,
the conviction increases that the author has built upon the bed-rock of fact, and that his
position is unassailable.

It is impossible, within the limits of a review, to do more than to emphasise the most important
of his discoveries. In his studies of the First Letter, and of the Journals giving account
of the first and the second voyages of Columbus, Professor Wiener seeks to determine how much
testimony they give pertaining to Indian names and things, after the elimination of all that
is not Indian. The non-Indian elements are of two sorts; the names of the Islands, and the
words for "gold," etc. Columbus, dominated by the fixed idea, that, sailing westward, he would
find a short cut to India, China and Japan, began with the first sight of land, to be engrossed
with the task of identifying each newly discovered country with some island or district of
the Far East, named on his maps. He was an ignorant man, though he knew Ptolemy and Marco Polo
by heart, credulous, uncritical, not consciously dishonest, but unready to correct false impressions
caused by his ignorance and gullibility. His notes, as may be seen from a reproduction of a
page of his manuscripts (facing p. 38), were in an execrable hand. The forger of the Journal
of the First Voyage was no puzzle expert, and made mistakes in deciphering scrawls. Thus, for
example, the note Giaua min., i.e., Java minor, was read Guanahin, the same destined to masquerade
as Guanahani, the Indian name of the first island sighted on October 12, 1492.

Perhaps the best specimen of such ghost-words in the Journal is the name Carib. This is nothing
but Marco Polo's Cambalu, the capital of the Grand Khan, successively misread as Canibal, Caniba,
Cariba. So also, "canoe" is a ghost-word, traced to a misreading of scaphas as canoas in the
manuscript, or the Gothic text of the Latin version of the First Letter. It is interesting
to learn that maize, in the forms masa, maza, ultimately from Portuguese mararoca, is the African
name for Guinea corn. The transference of the name from Guinea corn to Indian corn, "rests
on a misunderstanding of a passage in Peter Martyr's First Decade" (p. 123).

The question arises whether or not there had been a colony of Europeans, with African slaves
in America, before the arrival of Columbus.

Fray Ramon Pane, Oviedo, and Las Casas give conico as the Indian word for "farm, plantation."
This is clearly the Mandingo kunke "farm." The Indian word for "golo," according to the Journal
entry for January 13, 1493, is caona. It is found also in the name of Cacique Caonabo, called
in the Journal of the Second Voyage "master of mines,"--the name being explained in the Libretto
as "lord of the house of gold." Now the words for "gold" in the Negro languages are mostly
derived from Arabic din[=a]r, which, through Hausa zinaria, and Pul kanyera, reaches Vei as
kani. Evidently canoa, written also guani, is nothing but this Vei word. In "Cacique Caonabo,"
we have three Mande words in juxtaposition. Cacique is not far removed from kuntigi, Soso kundzi,
"chief,"--caona, that is kani, is "gold," and boi, from Arabic beii, bai, is "house." The chance
that three such words should be identical in the dissimilar languages of Africa and America,
is nil. The words are African, though represented as belonging to the spoken language of the
New World. Moreover, Ramon Pane, in the account he wrote for Columbus of the Indian religion,
gives as Indian words, the Mande toto, "frog," and the Malinke kobo, "bug." What is more important,
he imputes to the Indians, a knowledge of the terrible West African itch, or craworaw, which
he calls by the supposed Indian name caracaracol. The critic faces a dilemma. Either Ramon
Pane lied, or he told the truth. Either he fabricated stories of Indians, which he drew from
books or manuscript relations by Spanish and Portuguese traders, who were writing about Negroes
in Africa, or there had been in Hispaniola, a pre-Columbian colony of European adventurers,
with their African slaves, who taught the Indians the Negro words for "farm, gold, frog, bug,
itch," etc., and also African folk-lore. No other hypothesis is possible.

     {Transcriber's Note: The following paragraphs contain a number of
     characters with diacritical marks which are represented as follows:
                [=a] a-macron
                [=o] o-macron
                [=e] e-macron
                [>e] e-caron
                [>z] z-caron}

The documentary and philological history of tobacco smoking and the cultivation of edible roots,
shows additional convincing evidence of the influence of Africa on the culture of America in
the colonial period. Columbus never saw the Indians smoking tobacco. According to the Journal
of the First Voyage, on October 15, 1492, an Indian brought him a ball of earth and certain
precious dried leaves. On November 16, two Spaniards reported that the Indians, carrying firebrands
and leaves, used them to "take incense." In the Journal of the Second Voyage, Columbus (this
part of the Journal is definitely ascribed to him by his son) writes of Indians spreading powder
on a table, and sniffing it through a forked reed, thereby becoming intoxicated. Now the first
account is suspiciously like a book-story of Oriental hashish-taking.--the second has no implication
of smoking at all, while the third describes nothing but the process of taking a sternutatory.
Indeed this last account is clearly based on a book account, in which there was a play on the
Arabic words tubb[=a]q "styptic" and tabaq "table." Ramon Pane, when he tells of Indians sniffing
the powder, calls it caboba, a mere Italianisation of the Arabic qasabah "reed," transferring
the name of the inhaler to the drug. Smoking tobacco through a forked reed of the sort described,
has been proved by trial, to be impossible. As late as 1535, Oviedo is unable to tell a straightforward
story of Indians smoking tobacco, but he adds the significant fact that the Negroes in the
West Indies smoked and cultivated tobacco. Negroes, by the way were first allowed to come to
America in 1501,--two years later, Ovando, the governor of Hispaniola complained that they
joined with the Indians to make trouble. By 1545, "smoking had become fairly universal in America"
(p. 127). It cannot be argued that half a century is too short a time for a new vice to become
so widespread. Consider the case of banana culture. Oviedo says that the first bananas were
introduced into America in 1516. Within twenty years, the fruit was universally cultivated,
while the Spanish name platano has survived in a large number of derivatives in the Indian
languages.

