She stepped back to Scylla's side. There was a deathly doubt in her heart as to whether she
was doing the right thing; but she had made a desperate resolve. Scylla had heard the thunder
of the approaching herd too, and was too frightened to speak. Martha held her arms up toward
her just as the first flash of lightning came.

"Come, Scylla," she said, "slide off into my arms. The herd has stampeded and is coming toward
us, but I will try to save us both."

Without a word Scylla did as she was told, and in a few seconds was half kneeling, half lying
on the ground.

Then Martha struck Dan as hard as she could with her flat hand.

"Hey up, Dan!" said she, "run! run! You needn't stay here, too!"

The horse galloped off into the darkness.

Just then another lighting-flash came and showed a cow-boy leaning far over the neck of his
pony, riding for his life. He passed only a dozen yards from them, but did not see them. Behind
him Martha could dimly see two or three other riders coming toward them at desperate speed,
while still beyond she caught a glimpse of the tossing horns and lurching heads of the cattle.

Without a moment for thought, and as coolly as if she had nothing in the world to fear, she
bent over trembling Scylla, unfastened the waistband of her dress-skirt and pulled it deftly
from under her. Then she quickly removed her own and took one of the bright-colored garments
in each hand.

Just then the storm broke furiously. The night was suddenly lighted by lightning-flashes that
followed one another so closely they seemed to make one long, lasting flare. The cow-boys had
all passed, and Martha saw that the herd was scarcely two hundred yards away.

She stepped directly in front of Scylla's prostrate form and raised the skirts.

"Scream, Scylla, scream!" she cried.

Then, while the driving rain fell in torrents, and the lightning made the prairie as light
as day, she stood straight up and waved those skirts wildly about her head, and shouted at
the top of her voice.

She was dimly conscious that her shouts shaped themselves into a prayer that her brother was
safe, and that the herd might divide and pass them. Her face was as pale as paper. Her long
hair was tossed about by the wind, and by her own violent motions.

The foremost of the cattle was only a hundred yards away now. She could see the lightning shining
on his horns and in his red, rolling eyes. He was coming straight toward her. Louder she shouted
and more wildly she swung the skirts. Would he crush her, or would he turn aside? She felt
an almost overpowering impulse to turn and run away, but that would mean certain death. Her
only hope was to keep her position firmly, and to swing her skirts and scream. If the first
steer swerved and passed her, his followers might do so too.

He seemed of mammoth proportions as he lurched toward her. His head was lowered, and his great
hoofs pounded the ground like trip-hammers. Closer! Closer! He was not twenty feet away. His
big, crazy eyes seemed to look straight into hers. Closer! Closer!--Then he changed his course
a trifle. In an instant he had passed her like a great fury. Others were only a few feet behind
him, and back of them was the compact mass of the herd. She screamed louder and redoubled her
waving. The thunder in the heavens, and the thunder of the hoofs, drowned her voice so that
she could not even hear it herself. A dozen cattle passed her. Fifty cattle passed her. She
was in the midst of the herd which seemed to make a solid, living wall on each side of her.
The earth trembled beneath the hammering of the hoofs. Her throat seemed ready to burst, and
she was certain that no sound came from her lips. It seemed a long time since that first one
had plunged toward her, but still the maddened beasts advanced with lowered heads and lunging
bodies. They did not seem to turn aside, and each instant she expected to be struck down and
trampled under their feet. She could not even try to scream any longer, but still she waved
the skirts.

At last, slowly, she saw that the herd was thinning. Short gaps began to appear between the
animals. She knew that the herd had nearly passed. Then the living walls on each side melted
away behind her, and only stragglers were left. Then these, too, were gone. The stampeding
herd had passed her, and she was still alive.

She turned dizzily toward Scylla.

The little invalid--the cripple--was standing straight up, close behind her. For a second Martha
doubted her eyes. The storm still raged, and she thought it was a vagary of the lightning.
She held her hands out, though, and convinced herself that it was true. Scylla was standing
on her feet, for the first time in many years. The two girls threw their arms around each other,
and sank to their knees on the prairie. As they said a prayer of thanks together, the uneven
glare of the lightning, which had kept up almost uninterruptedly ever since a few seconds before
the cattle reached them, died away. One or two feeble flashes followed, and then the storm
had passed.

Martha took Scylla's face between her hands and kissed her. Then she said:

"Wasn't it awful?"

"Oh, Martha," Scylla answered, "I thought every second that we'd be killed, but there you stood
as brave as a lion, and waved those dresses right in the faces of the cattle. You saved both
our lives. I lay here on the ground for a minute after you took my skirt, and then I got up."

"You got up, Scylla! How could you, all alone?"

"I don't know, Martha, but I felt as if I must. I tried to rise once, and fell back. Then the
cattle came and I tried again, and all the weakness seemed to be gone, and I stood right up
behind you and stayed there while the herd went by. I don't feel as I used to--I feel as if
the paralysis had all gone. See, I can get up again,--don't help me,--all alone."

And, sure enough, Scylla scrambled to her feet. She stood a little unsteadily on them, but
she stood. They were so glad it was true that they did not try to understand it.

After Scylla's new-found strength had been rejoiced over for a moment, they began to wonder
how they could get home. They knew that they could not walk--Martha was terribly tired, and
Scylla, even if she could stand up, was not equal to the long tramp back to the ranch, of course.
They were dripping wet. The elation that followed their escape, and the discovery of Scylla's
great good fortune, was followed by a nervous breakdown on the part of both girls, and they
cuddled in each other's arms on the wet grass, sobbing and frightened, to wait for morning to come.

Hardly half an hour had passed before they heard horses. Martha stood up and saw the shadowy
form of a rider away off to the right. She tried to scream, but her overstrained voice was
hoarse and husky. Scylla called out as well as she could, but the horseman rode on. By and
by they changed their course, however, and came near enough for the girls to make their presence
known.

As the horses approached, Martha recognized in the foremost one the big black form of Dan.
Her brother John was on his back, and with him were men from the ranch.

There were tears in the eyes of the big men as they lifted the girls in their arms, and started
home. They had not expected to find them alive.

Before they went to sleep, the thrilling story of Martha's bravery had been fully told, and
to it had been added the news of Scylla's strange recovery.

The next day the doctor was called in to see about it. He gravely shook his head, and said
it was strange, but that such things had happened before. The great mental excitement of the
stampede had wrought what seemed a miracle.

