PRACTICAL EDUCATION:

BY

MARIA EDGEWORTH,

AUTHOR OF LETTERS FOR LITERARY LADIES, AND THE PARENT'S ASSISTANT, &c. &c.

AND, BY

RICHARD LOVELL EDGEWORTH,

F.R.S. AND M.R.I.A.

IN TWO VOLUMES ... VOL. I.

SECOND AMERICAN EDITION.

PUBLISHED

BY J. FRANCIS LIPPITT, PROVIDENCE, (R. I.) AND T. B. WAIT & SONS, BOSTON.

T. B. Wait and Sons, Printers.

1815.

PREFACE.

We shall not imitate the invidious example of some authors, who think it necessary to destroy
the edifices of others, in order to clear the way for their own. We have no peculiar system
to support, and, consequently, we have no temptation to attack the theories of others; and
we have chosen the title of Practical Education, to point out that we rely entirely upon practice
and experience.

To make any progress in the art of education, it must be patiently reduced to an experimental
science: we are fully sensible of the extent and difficulty of this undertaking, and we have
not the arrogance to imagine, that we have made any considerable progress in a work, which
the labours of many generations may, perhaps, be insufficient to complete; but we lay before
the publick the result of our experiments, and in many instances the experiments themselves.
In pursuing this part of our plan, we have sometimes descended from that elevation of style,
which the reader might expect in a quarto volume; we have frequently been obliged to record
facts concerning children which may seem trifling, and to enter into a minuteness of detail
which may appear unnecessary. No anecdotes, however, have been admitted without due deliberation;
nothing has been introduced to gratify the idle curiosity of others, or to indulge our own
feelings of domestic partiality.

In what we have written upon the rudiments of science, we have pursued an opposite plan; so
far from attempting to teach them in detail, we refer our readers to the excellent treatises
on the different branches of science, and on the various faculties of the human mind, which
are to be found in every language. The chapters that we have introduced upon these subjects,
are intended merely as specimens of the manner in which we think young children should be taught.
We have found from experience, that an early knowledge of the first principles of science may
be given in conversation, and may be insensibly acquired from the usual incidents of life:
if this knowledge be carefully associated with the technical terms which common use may preserve
in the memory, much of the difficulty of subsequent instruction may be avoided.

The sketches we have hazarded upon these subjects, may to some appear too slight, and to others
too abstruse and tedious. To those who have explored the vast mines of human knowledge, small
specimens appear trifling and contemptible, whilst the less accustomed eye is somewhat dazzled
and confused by the appearance even of a small collection: but to the most enlightened minds,
new combinations may be suggested by a new arrangement of materials, and the curiosity and
enthusiasm of the inexperienced may be awakened, and excited to accurate and laborious researches.

With respect to what is commonly called the education of the heart, we have endeavoured to
suggest the easiest means of inducing useful and agreeable habits, well regulated sympathy
and benevolent affections. A witty writer says, "Il est permis d'ennuyer en moralites d'ici
jusqu' a Constantinople." Unwilling to avail ourselves of this permission, we have sedulously
avoided declamation, and, wherever we have been obliged to repeat ancient maxims, and common
truths, we have at least thought it becoming to present them in a new dress.

On religion and politics we have been silent, because we have no ambition to gain partisans,
or to make proselytes, and because we do not address ourselves exclusively to any sect or to
any party. The scrutinizing eye of criticism, in looking over our table of contents, will also,
probably, observe that there are no chapters on courage and chastity. To pretend to teach courage
to Britons, would be as ridiculous as it is unnecessary; and, except amongst those who are
exposed to the contagion of foreign manners, we may boast of the superior delicacy of our fair
countrywomen; a delicacy acquired from domestic example, and confirmed by publick approbation.
Our opinions concerning the female character and understanding, have been fully detailed in
a former publication;[1] and, unwilling to fatigue by repetition, we have touched but slightly
upon these subjects in our chapters on Temper, Female Accomplishments, Prudence, and Economy.

We have warned our readers not to expect from us any new theory of education, but they need
not apprehend that we have written without method, or that we have thrown before them a heap
of desultory remarks and experiments, which lead to no general conclusions, and which tend
to the establishment of no useful principles. We assure them that we have worked upon a regular
plan, and where we have failed of executing our design, it has not been for want of labour
or attention. Convinced that it is the duty and the interest of all who write, to inquire what
others have said and thought upon the subject of which they treat, we have examined attentively
the works of others, that we might collect whatever knowledge they contain, and that we might
neither arrogate inventions which do not belong to us, nor weary the public by repetition.
Some useful and ingenious essays may probably have escaped our notice; but we flatter ourselves,
that our readers will not find reason to accuse us of negligence, as we have perused with diligent
attention every work upon education, that has obtained the sanction of time or of public approbation,
and, though we have never bound ourselves to the letter, we hope that we have been faithful
to the spirit, of their authors. Without incumbering ourselves with any part of their systems
which has not been authorized by experience, we have steadily attempted immediately to apply
to practice such of their ideas as we have thought useful; but whilst we have used the thoughts
of others, we have been anxious to avoid mean plagiarism, and wherever we have borrowed, the
debt has been carefully acknowledged.

The first hint of the chapter on Toys was received from Dr. Beddoes; the sketch of an introduction
to chemistry for children was given to us by Mr. Lovell Edgeworth; and the rest of the work
was resumed from a design formed and begun twenty years ago. When a book appears under the
name of two authors, it is natural to inquire what share belongs to each of them. All that
relates to the art of teaching to read in the chapter on Tasks, the chapters on Grammar and
Classical Literature, Geography, Chronology, Arithmetic, Geometry, and Mechanics, were written
by Mr. Edgeworth, and the rest of the book by Miss Edgeworth. She was encouraged and enabled
to write upon this important subject, by having for many years before her eyes the conduct
of a judicious mother in the education of a large family. The chapter on Obedience, was written
from Mrs. Edgeworth's notes, and was exemplified by her successful practice in the management
of her children; the whole manuscript was submitted to her judgment, and she revised parts
of it in the last stage of a fatal disease.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Letters for Literary Ladies.

CONTENTS.

Chapter                                                         Page

     I. Toys                                                     9
    II. Tasks                                                   40
   III. On Attention                                            71
    IV. Servants                                               109
     V. Acquaintance                                           121
    VI. On Temper                                              137
   VII. On Obedience                                           153
  VIII. On Truth                                               168
    IX. On Rewards and Punishments                             198
     X. On Sympathy and Sensibility                            232
    XI. On Vanity, Pride, and Ambition                         261
   XII. Books                                                  276

PRACTICAL EDUCATION.

CHAPTER I.

TOYS.

"Why don't you play with your playthings, my dear? I am sure that I have bought toys enough
for you; why can't you divert yourself with them, instead of breaking them to pieces?" says
a mother to her child, who stands idle and miserable, surrounded by disjointed dolls, maimed
horses, coaches and one-horse chairs without wheels, and a nameless wreck of gilded lumber.

A child in this situation is surely more to be pitied than blamed; for is it not vain to repeat,
"Why don't you play with your playthings," unless they be such as he can play with, which is
very seldom the case; and is it not rather unjust to be angry with him for breaking them to
pieces, when he can by no other device render them subservient to his amusement? He breaks
them, not from the love of mischief, but from the hatred of idleness; either he wishes to see
what his playthings are made of, and how they are made; or, whether he can put them together
again, if the parts be once separated. All this is perfectly innocent; and it is a pity that
his love of knowledge and his spirit of activity should be repressed by the undistinguishing
correction of a nursery maid, or the unceasing reproof of a French governess.

The more natural vivacity and ingenuity young people possess, the less are they likely to be
amused with the toys which are usually put into their hands. They require to have things which
exercise their senses or their imagination, their imitative, and inventive powers. The glaring
colours, or the gilding of toys, may catch the eye, and please for a few minutes, but unless
some use can be made of them, they will, and ought, to be soon discarded. A boy, who has the
use of his limbs, and whose mind is untainted with prejudice, would, in all probability, prefer
a substantial cart, in which he could carry weeds, earth and stones, up and down hill, to the
finest frail coach and six that ever came out of a toy-shop: for what could he do with the
coach after having admired, and sucked the paint, but drag it cautiously along the carpet of
a drawing-room, watching the wheels, which will not turn, and seeming to sympathize with the
just terrors of the lady and gentleman within, who are certain of being overturned every five
minutes? When he is tired of this, perhaps, he may set about to unharness horses which were
never meant to be unharnessed; or to currycomb their woollen manes and tails, which usually
come off during the first attempt.

That such toys are frail and useless, may, however, be considered as evils comparatively small:
as long as the child has sense and courage to destroy the toys, there is no great harm done;
but, in general, he is taught to set a value upon them totally independent of all ideas of
utility, or of any regard to his own real feelings. Either he is conjured to take particular
care of them, because they cost a great deal of money; or else he is taught to admire them
as miniatures of some of the fine things on which fine people pride themselves: if no other
bad consequence were to ensue, this single circumstance of his being guided in his choice by
the opinion of others is dangerous. Instead of attending to his own sensations, and learning
from his own experience, he acquires the habit of estimating his pleasures by the taste and
judgment of those who happen to be near him.

"I liked the cart best," says the boy, "but mamma and every body said that the coach was the
prettiest; so I chose the coach."--Shall we wonder if the same principle afterwards governs
him in the choice of "the toys of age?"

A little girl, presiding at her baby tea-table, is pleased with the notion that she is like
her mamma; and, before she can have any idea of the real pleasures of conversation and society,
she is confirmed in the persuasion, that tattling and visiting are some of the most enviable
privileges of grown people; a set of beings whom she believes to be in possession of all the
sweets of happiness.

Dolls, beside the prescriptive right of ancient usage, can boast of such an able champion in
Rousseau, that it requires no common share of temerity to attack them. As far as they are the
means of inspiring girls with a taste for neatness in dress, and with a desire to make those
things for themselves, for which women are usually dependent upon milliners, we must acknowledge
their utility; but a watchful eye should be kept upon the child, to mark the first symptoms
of a love of finery and fashion. It is a sensible remark of a late female writer, that whilst
young people work, the mind will follow the hands, the thoughts are occupied with trifles,
and the industry is stimulated by vanity.

Our objections to dolls are offered with great submission and due hesitation. With more confidence
we may venture to attack baby-houses; an unfurnished baby-house might be a good toy, as it
would employ little carpenters and seamstresses to fit it up; but a completely furnished baby-house
proves as tiresome to a child, as a finished seat is to a young nobleman. After peeping, for
in general only a peep can be had into each apartment, alter being thoroughly satisfied that
nothing is wanting, and that consequently there is nothing to be done, the young lady lays
her doll upon the state bed, if the doll be not twice as large as the bed, and falls fast asleep
in the midst of her felicity.

Before dolls, baby-houses, coaches, and cups and saucers, there comes a set of toys, which
are made to imitate the actions of men and women, and the notes or noises of birds and beasts.
Many of these are ingenious in their construction, and happy in their effect, but that effect
unfortunately is transitory. When the wooden woman has churned her hour in her empty churn;
when the stiff backed man has hammered or sawed till his arms are broken, or till his employers
are tired; when the gilt lamb has ba-ad, the obstinate pig squeaked, and the provoking cuckoo
cried cuckoo, till no one in the house can endure the noise; what remains to be done?--Wo betide
the unlucky little philosopher, who should think of inquiring why the woman churned, or how
the bird cried cuckoo; for it is ten to one that in prosecuting such an inquiry, just when
he is upon the eve of discovery, he snaps the wire, or perforates the bellows, and there ensue
"a death-like silence, and a dread repose."

The grief which is felt for spoiling a new plaything might be borne, if it were not increased,
as it commonly is, by the reproaches of friends; much kind eloquence, upon these occasions,
is frequently displayed, to bring the sufferer to a proper sense of his folly, till in due
time the contrite corners of his mouth are drawn down, his wide eyes fill with tears, and,
without knowing what he means, he promises never to be so silly any more. The future safety
of his worthless playthings is thus purchased at the expense of his understanding, perhaps
of his integrity: for children seldom scrupulously adhere to promises, which they have made
to escape from impending punishment.

We have ventured to object to some fashionable toys; we are bound at least to propose others
in their place; and we shall take the matter up soberly from the nursery.

The first toys for infants should be merely such things as may be grasped without danger, and
which might, by the difference of their sizes, invite comparison: round ivory or wooden sticks
should be put into their little hands; by degrees they will learn to lift them to their mouths,
and they will distinguish their sizes: square and circular bits of wood, balls, cubes, and
triangles, with holes of different sizes made in them, to admit the sticks, should be their
playthings. No greater apparatus is necessary for the amusement of the first months of an infant's
life. To ease the pain which they feel from cutting teeth, infants generally carry to their
mouths whatever they can lay their hands upon; but they soon learn to distinguish those bodies
which relieve their pain, from those which gratify their palate; and, if they are left to themselves,
they will always choose what is painted in preference to every thing else; nor must we attribute
the look of delight with which they seize toys that are painted red, merely to the pleasure
which their eye takes in the bright colour, but to the love of the sweet taste which they suck
from the paint. What injury may be done to the health by the quantity of lead which is thus
swallowed, we will not pretend to determine, but we refer to a medical name of high authority,[2]
whose cautions probably will not be treated with neglect. To gratify the eye with glittering
objects, if this be necessary, may be done with more safety by toys of tin and polished iron:
a common steel button is a more desirable plaything to a young child than many expensive toys;
a few such buttons tied together, so as to prevent any danger of their being swallowed, would
continue for some time a source of amusement.

When a nurse wants to please or to pacify a child, she stuns its ear with a variety of noises,
or dazzles its eye with glaring colours or stimulating light. The eye and the ear are thus
fatigued without advantage, and the temper is hushed to a transient calm by expedients, which
in time must lose their effect, and which can have no power over confirmed fretfulness. The
pleasure of exercising their senses, is in itself sufficient to children without any factitious
stimulus, which only exhausts their excitability, and renders them incapable of being amused
by a variety of common objects, which would naturally be their entertainment. We do not here
speak of the attempts made to sooth a child who is ill; "to charm the sense of pain," so far
as it can be done by diverting the child's attention from his own sufferings to outward objects,
is humane and reasonable, provided our compassion does not induce in the child's mind the expectation
of continual attendance, and that impatience of temper which increases bodily suffering. It
would be in vain to read lectures on philosophy to a nurse, or to expect stoicism from an infant;
but, perhaps, where mothers pay attention themselves to their children, they will be able to
prevent many of the consequences of vulgar prejudice and folly. A nurse's wish is to have as
little trouble as possible with the child committed to her charge, and at the same time to
flatter the mother, from whom she expects her reward. The appearance of extravagant fondness
for the child, of incessant attention to its humour, and absurd submission to its caprices,
she imagines to be the surest method of recommending herself to favour. She is not to be imposed
upon by the faint and affected rebukes of the fond mother, who exclaims, "Oh, nurse, indeed
you do spoil that child sadly!--Oh, nurse, upon my word she governs you entirely!--Nurse, you
must not let her have her own way always.--Never mind her crying, I beg, nurse."--Nurse smiles,
sees that she has gained her point, and promises what she knows it is not expected she should
perform. Now if, on the contrary, she perceived that the mother was neither to be flattered
nor pleased by these means, one motive for spoiling the child would immediately cease: another
strong one would, it is true, still remain. A nurse wishes to save herself trouble, and she
frequently consults her own convenience when she humours an infant. She hushes it to sleep,
that she may leave it safely; she stops it from crying, that she may not hear an irritating
noise, that she may relieve herself as soon as possible from the painful weakness of compassion,
or that she may avoid the danger of being interrogated by the family as to the cause of the
disturbance. It is less trouble to her to yield to caprice and ill-humour than to prevent or
cure it, or at least she thinks it is so. In reality it is not; for an humoured child in time
plagues its attendant infinitely more than it would have done with reasonable management. If
it were possible to convince nurses of this, they would sacrifice perhaps the convenience of
a moment to the peace of future hours, and they would not be eager to quell one storm, at the
hazard of being obliged to endure twenty more boisterous; the candle would then no more be
thrust almost into the infant's eyes to make it take notice of the light through the mist of
tears, the eternal bunch of keys would not dance and jingle at every peevish summons, nor would
the roarings of passion be overpowered by insulting songs, or soothed by artful caresses; the
child would then be caressed and amused when he looks smiling and good-humoured, and all parties
would be much happier.

Practical education begins very early, even in the nursery. Without the mountebank pretence,
that miracles can be performed by the turning of a straw, or the dictatorial anathematizing
tone, which calls down vengeance upon those who do not follow to an iota the injunctions of
a theorist, we may simply observe, that parents would save themselves a great deal of trouble,
and their children some pain, if they would pay some attention to their early education. The
temper acquires habits much earlier than is usually apprehended; the first impressions which
infants receive, and the first habits which they learn from their nurses, influence the temper
and disposition long after the slight causes which produced them are forgotten. More care and
judgment than usually fall to the share of a nurse are necessary, to cultivate the disposition
which infants show, to exercise their senses, so as neither to suffer them to become indolent
and torpid from want of proper objects to occupy their attention, nor yet to exhaust their
senses by continual excitation. By ill-timed restraints or injudicious incitements, the nurse
frequently renders the child obstinate or passionate. An infant should never be interrupted
in its operations; whilst it wishes to use its hands, we should not be impatient to make it
walk; or when it is pacing, with all the attention to its centre of gravity that is exerted
by a rope-dancer, suddenly arrest its progress, and insist upon its pronouncing the scanty
vocabulary which we have compelled it to learn. When children are busily trying experiments
upon objects within their reach, we should not, by way of saving them trouble, break the course
of their ideas, and totally prevent them from acquiring knowledge by their own experience.
When a foolish nurse sees a child attempting to reach or lift any thing, she runs immediately,
"Oh, dear love, it can't do it, it can't!--I'll do it for it, so I will!"--If the child be
trying the difference between pushing and pulling, rolling or sliding, the powers of the wedge
or the lever, the officious nurse hastens instantly to display her own knowledge of the mechanic
powers: "Stay, love, stay; that is not the way to do it--I'll show it the right way--see here--look
at me love."--Without interrupting a child in the moment of action, proper care might previously
be taken to remove out of its way those things which can really hurt it, and a just degree
of attention must be paid to its first experiments upon hard and heavy, and more especially
upon sharp, brittle, and burning bodies; but this degree of care should not degenerate into
cowardice; it is better that a child should tumble down or burn its fingers, than that it should
not learn the use of its limbs and its senses. We should for another reason take care to put
all dangerous things effectually out of the child's reach, instead of saying perpetually, "Take
care, don't touch that!--don't do that!--let that alone!" The child, who scarcely understands
the words, and not at all the reason of these prohibitions, is frightened by the tone and countenance
with which they are uttered and accompanied; and he either becomes indolent or cunning; either
he desists from exertion, or seizes the moment to divert himself with forbidden objects, when
the watchful eye that guards them is withdrawn. It is in vain to encompass the restless prisoner
with a fortification of chairs, and to throw him an old almanack to tear to pieces, or an old
pincushion to explore; the enterprising adventurer soon makes his escape from this barricado,
leaves his goods behind him, and presently is again in what the nurse calls mischief.

Mischief is with nurses frequently only another name for any species of activity which they
find troublesome; the love which children are supposed to have for pulling things out of their
places, is in reality the desire of seeing things in motion, or of putting things into different
situations. They will like to put the furniture in a room in its proper place, and to arrange
every thing in what we call order, if we can make these equally permanent sources of active
amusement; but when things are once in their places, the child has nothing more to do, and
the more quickly each chair arrives at its destined situation, the sooner comes the dreaded
state of idleness and quiet.

A nursery, or a room in which young children are to live, should never have any furniture in
it which they can spoil; as few things as possible should be left within their reach which
they are not to touch, and at the same time they should be provided with the means of amusing
themselves, not with painted or gilt toys, but with pieces of wood of various shapes and sizes,
which they may build up and pull down, and put in a variety of different forms and positions;
balls, pulleys, wheels, strings, and strong little carts, proportioned to their age, and to
the things which they want to carry in them, should be their playthings.

