"I am Prince Kandarpa-ketu, son of the King of Ceylon. Walking one day in my summer-garden,
I heard a merchant-captain narrating how that out at sea, deep under water, on the fourteenth
day of the moon, he had seen what was like nothing but the famous tree of Paradise, and sitting
under it a lady of most lustrous beauty, bedecked with strings of pearls like Lukshmi herself,
reclining, with a lute in her hands, on what appeared to be a golden couch crusted all over
with precious stones. At once I engaged the captain and his ship, and steered to the spot of
which he told me. On reaching it I beheld the beautiful apparition as he had described it,
and, transported with the exquisite beauty of the lady, I leapt after her into the sea. In
a moment I found myself in a city of gold; and in an apartment of a golden palace, surrounded
by young and beautiful girls, I found the Sea-queen. She perceived my approach, and sent an
attendant with a courteous message to meet me. In reply to my questions, I learned that the
lady was the Princess Ratnamanjari, daughter of the King of All the Spirits--and how she had
made a vow that whoever should first come to see her golden city, with his own eyes, should
marry her. So I married her by the form called Gundharva, or 'Union by mutual consent,' and
spent many and happy days in her delightful society. One day she took me aside, and said, 'Dear
Prince! all these delights, and I myself, are thine to enjoy; only that picture yonder, of
the Fairy Streak-o'-Gold, that thou must never touch!' For a long time I observed this injunction;
at last, impelled by resistless curiosity, I laid my hand on the picture of 'Streak-o'-Gold,'
In one instant her little foot, lovely as the lotus-blossom, advanced from out of the painting,
and launched me through sea and air into my own country. Since that I have been a miserable
wanderer; and passing through this city, I chanced to lodge at a Cowkeeper's hut, and saw the
truth of this Barber's affair. The herdsman returned at night with his cattle, and found his
wife talking with the wife of the Barber, who is no better than a bawd. Enraged at this, the
man beat his wife, tied her to the milking-post, and fell asleep. In the dead of the night
the Barber's wife came back, and said to the woman, 'He, whom thou knowest, is burnt with the
cruel fire of thine absence, and lies nigh to death; go therefore and console him, and I will
tie myself to the post until thou returnest.' This was done, and the Cowkeeper presently awoke.
'Ah! thou light thing!' he said jeeringly, 'why dost not thou keep promise, and meet thy gallant?'
The Barber's wife could make no reply; whereat becoming incensed, the man cried out, 'What!
dost thou scorn to speak to me? I will cut thy nose off!' And so he did, and then lay down
to sleep again. Very soon the Cowkeeper's wife came back and asked if 'all was well.' 'Look
at my face!' said the Barber's wife, 'and you will see if all is well.' The woman could do
nothing but take her place again, while the Barber's wife, picking up the severed nose, and
at a sad loss how to account for it, went to her house. In the morning, before it was light,
the Barber called to her to bring his box of razors, and she bringing one only, he flung it
away in a passion. 'Oh, the knave!' she cried out, directly, aloud, 'Neighbors, neighbors!
he has cut my nose off!' and so she took him before the officers. The Cowkeeper, meantime,
wondering at his wife's patience, made some inquiry about her nose; whereto she replied, 'Cruel
wretch! thou canst not harm a virtuous woman. If Yama and the seven guardians of the world
know me chaste, then be my face unmaimed!' The herdsman hastened to fetch a light, and finding
her features unaltered, he flung himself at her feet, and begged forgiveness. For,

    'Never tires the fire of burning, never wearies death of slaying,
    Nor the sea of drinking rivers, nor the bright-eyed of betraying,'

Thereupon the King's officer dismissed Kandarpa-ketu, and did justice by setting the Barber
free, shaving the head of the Barber's wife, and punishing the Cowkeeper's.

'That is my story,' concluded Damanaka, 'and thence I said that we had no reason to complain.'

'Well, but we must do something,' said Karataka.

'Yes! How shall we break the friendship of the King with the Bull?' asked the other.

'It is very strong,' observed Karataka.

'But we can do it,' replied the other.

    'What force would fail to win, fraud can attain:--
    The Crow despatched the Serpent by a chain.'

'How did that occur?' asked Karataka.

Damanaka related:--

THE STORY OF THE BLACK SNAKE AND THE GOLDEN CHAIN

"A pair of Crows had their abode in a certain tree, the hollow of which was occupied by a black
snake, who had often devoured their young. The Hen-bird, finding herself breeding again, thus
addressed her mate: 'Husband, we must leave this tree; we shall never rear young ones while
this black snake lives here! You know the saw--

    'From false friends that breed thee strife,
    From a house with serpents rife,
    Saucy slaves and brawling wife--
    Get thee out, to save thy life.'

'My dear,' replied the Crow, 'you need not fear; I have put up with him till I am tired. Now
I will put an end to him.'

'How can you fight with a great black snake like that?' said the Hen-bird.

'Doubt nothing,' answered the other--

    'He that hath sense hath strength; the fool is weak:--
    The Lion proud died by the Hare so meek,'

'How came that about?' asked the Hen-Crow.

'Thus,' replied her mate:--

THE STORY OF THE LION AND THE OLD HARE

"On the Mandara mountain there lived a Lion named Fierce-of-heart, and he was perpetually making
massacre of all the wild animals. The thing grew so bad that the beasts held a public meeting,
and drew up a respectful remonstrance to the Lion in these words:--

"Wherefore should your Majesty thus make carnage of us all? If it may please you, we ourselves
will daily furnish a beast for your Majesty's meal." The Lion responded, "If that arrangement
is more agreeable to you, be it so."; and from that time a beast was allotted to him daily,
and daily devoured. One day it came to the turn of an old hare to supply the royal table, who
reflected to himself as he walked along, "I can but die, and I will go to my death leisurely."

"Now Fierce-of-heart, the lion, was pinched with hunger, and seeing the Hare so approaching
he roared out, "How darest thou thus delay in coming?"

'Sire,' replied the Hare, 'I am not to blame. I was detained on the road by another lion, who
exacted an oath from me to return when I should have informed your Majesty.'

'Go,' exclaimed King Fierce-of-heart in a rage; 'show me, instantly, where this insolent villain
of a lion lives.'

"The Hare led the way accordingly till he came to a deep well, whereat he stopped, and said,
'Let my lord the King come hither and behold him.' The Lion approached, and beheld his own
reflection in the water of the well, upon which, in his passion, he directly flung himself,
and so perished."

"I have heard your story," said the Hen-Crow, "but what plan do you propose?"

"My dear," replied her mate, "the Rajah's son comes here every day to bathe in the stream.
When he takes off his gold anklet, and lays it on the stone, do thou bring it in thy beak to
the hollow of the tree, and drop it in there." Shortly after the Prince came, as was his wont,
and taking off his dress and ornaments, the Hen-Crow did as had been determined; and while
the servants of the Prince were searching in the hollow, there they found the Black Snake,
which they at once dispatched.

'Said I not well,' continued Damanaka, 'that stratagem excels force?'

'It was well said,' replied Karataka; 'go! and may thy path be prosperous!

'With that Damanaka repaired to the King, and having done homage, thus addressed him:--

"Your Majesty, there is a dreadful thing on my mind, and I am come to disclose it."

'Speak!' said the King, with much graciousness.

'Your Majesty,' said the Jackal, 'this Bull has been detected of treason. To my face he has
spoken contemptuously of the three prerogatives of the throne,[14] unto which he aspires.'

"At these words King Tawny-hide stood aghast.

'Your Majesty,' continued Damanaka, 'has placed him above us all in the Court. Sire! he must
be displaced!--

    'Teeth grown loose, and wicked-hearted ministers, and poison-trees,
    Pluck them by the roots together; 'Tis the thing that giveth ease,'

'Good Jackal,' said the King, after some silence; 'this is indeed dreadful; but my regard for
the Bull is very great, and it is said--

    'Long-tried friends are friends to cleave to--never leave thou these
            i' the lurch:--
    What man shuns the fire as sinful for that once it burned a church?'

'That is written of discarding old servants, may it please your Majesty,' observed Damanaka;
'and this Bull is quite a stranger,'

'Wondrous strange!' replied the Lion; 'when I have advanced and protected him that he should
plot against me!'

'Your Majesty,' said the Jackal, 'knows what has been written--

    'Raise an evil soul to honor, and his evil bents remain;
    Bind a cur's tail ne'er so straightly, yet it curleth up again.'

    'How, in sooth, should Trust and Honor change the evil nature's root?
    Though one watered them with nectar, poison-trees bear deadly fruit.'

I have now at least warned your Majesty: if evil comes, the fault is not mine,'

'It will not do to condemn the Bull without inquiry,' mused the King; then he said aloud, 'shall
we admonish him, think you, Damanaka?'

'No, no, Sire!' exclaimed the Jackal, eagerly; 'that would spoil all our precautions--

    'Safe within the husk of silence guard the seed of counsel so
    That it break not--being broken, then the seedling will not grow,'

What is to be done must be done with despatch. After censuring his treason, would your Majesty
still trust the traitor?--

    'Whoso unto ancient fondness takes again a faithless friend,
    Like she-mules that die conceiving, in his folly finds his end,'

'But wherein can the Bull injure me?' asked Tawny-hide; 'tell me that!'

'Sire,' replied the Jackal, how can I tell it?--

    'Ask who his friends are, ere you scorn your foe;
    The Wagtail foiled the sea, that did not so,'

'How could that be?' demanded King Tawny-hide.

'The Jackal related:--

THE STORY OF THE WAGTAIL AND THE SEA

"On the shore of the Southern Sea there dwelt a pair of Wagtails. The Hen-bird was about to
lay, and thus addressed her mate:--

'Husband, we must look about for a fit place to lay my eggs.'

'My dear,' replied the Cock-bird, 'will not this spot do?'

'This spot!' exclaimed the Hen; 'why, the tide overflows it.'

'Good dame,' said the Cock, 'am I so pitiful a fellow that the Sea will venture to wash the
eggs out of my nest?'

'You are my very good Lord,' replied the Hen, with a laugh; 'but still there is a great difference
between you and the Sea.'

"Afterwards, however, at the desire of her mate, she consented to lay her eggs on the sea-beach.
Now the Ocean had overheard all this, and, bent upon displaying its strength, it rose and washed
away the nest and eggs. Overwhelmed with grief, the Hen-bird flew to her mate, and cried:--

'Husband, the terrible disaster has occurred! My eggs arc gone!'

'Be of good heart! my Life,' answered he.

"And therewith he called a meeting of fowls, and went with them into the presence of Gurud,
the Lord of the birds. When the Master of the Mighty Wing had listened to their complaint,
he conveyed it to the knowledge of the God Narayen, who keeps, and kills, and makes alive the
world. The almighty mandate given, Gurud bound it upon his forehead, and bore it to the Ocean,
which, so soon as it heard the will of Narayen, at once gave back the eggs.

'How, indeed,' concluded Damanaka, 'should I judge of the Bull's power, not knowing who supports
him?'

'By what signs, then,' asked the King, 'may I conclude him a traitor?'

'If he comes into the presence with his horns lowered for goring, as one that expects the fight.
That,' replied the Jackal, 'will convince your Majesty,'

'Thereupon Damanaka the Jackal withdrew, and betook himself towards the Bull, upon perceiving
whom he approached slowly, with all the air of one greatly distressed.

'Good master Jackal,' said Lusty-life, 'what goes amiss with thee?'

'All goes amiss with such as serve wicked masters,' replied the Jackal.

'But what ails thee?' asked the Bull.

'Alas!' answered the Jackal, 'what can I say in such a strait!--

    'Even as one who grasps a serpent, drowning in the bitter sea,
    Death to hold and death to loosen--such is life's perplexity.'

'And therewithal the Jackal heaved a deep sigh, and squatted down.

'But, good friend,' said the Bull, 'at least tell me what is in thy mind.'

'Bull,' began Damanaka, 'it is a King's secret, and should not be spoken; but thou didst come
here upon my safeguard, and as I hope for the life to come, I will tell thee of what touches
thee so nearly. Listen!--the heart of the King is turned against thee! he hath sworn secretly
that he will kill thee and feast upon thy flesh.'

'Then Lusty-life the Bull was sorely troubled, and he fell a-musing thus--

    "Woman's love rewards the worthless--kings of knaves exalters be;
    Wealth attends the selfish niggard, and the cloud rains on the sea."

'Can this be the Jackal's doing?' he reflected. Going with honest folk will not make one honest--

    'Many a knave wins fair opinions standing in fair company,
    As the sooty soorma pleases, lighted by a brilliant eye.'

Then he said aloud, 'wherein can I have angered the King? Do kings hate without cause? I can
tell nothing, except that there is no happiness which abides long--

    'Where the azure lotus[15] blossoms, there the alligators hide;
    In the sandal-tree are serpents. Pain and pleasure live allied.'

I thought his Majesty noble as the sandal-tree; but that, indeed, is not wholly noble--

    'Rich the sandal--yet no part is but a vile thing habits there;
    Snake and wasp haunt root and blossom; on the boughs sit ape and bear.'

'Bull,' said Damanaka, 'I knew the King of old for one whose tongue was honey and whose heart
was poison.'

'But how very hard!' said the Bull, 'that he, being a lion, should attack me, an innocent eater
of grass!'

'It is very hard!' said the Jackal.

'Who can have set him against me?' asked the Bull.

'Being so, it cannot be bettered,' replied the Jackal, 'whoever did it--

    'As a bracelet of crystal, once broke, is not mended;
    So the favor of princes, once altered, is ended.'

'Yes,' said the Bull, 'and a king incensed is terrible--

    'Wrath of kings, and rage of lightning--both be very full of dread;
    But one falls on one man only--one strikes many victims dead,'

Still, I can but die--and I will die fighting! When death is certain, and no hope left but
in battle, that is the time for war,'

'It is so,' said the Jackal.

'Having weighed all this, Lusty-life inquired of the Jackal by what signs he might conclude
the King's hostile intentions.

'If he glowers upon thee,' answered Damanaka, 'and awaits thee with ears pricked, tail stiffened,
paw upraised, and muzzle agape, then thou mayest get thee to thy weapons like a Bull of spirit, for

    'All men scorn the soulless coward who his manhood doth forget:--
    On a lifeless heap of ashes fearlessly the foot is set,'

'Then Damanaka the Jackal returned to the Lion, and said to him:--

'If it please your Majesty, the traitor is now coming; let your Majesty be on your guard, with
ears pricked and paw upraised.'

'The Bull meanwhile approached, and observing the hostile attitude of King Tawny-hide, he also
lowered his horns, and prepared for the combat. A terrible battle ensued, and at the last King
Tawny-hide slew Lusty-life the Bull. Now when the Bull was dead, the Lion was very sorrowful,
and as he sat on his throne lamenting, he said--

'I repent me of this deed!--

    'As when an Elephant's life-blood is spilt,
    Another hath the spoils--mine is the guilt.'

'Sire,' replied the Jackal, 'a King over-merciful is like a Brahman that eats all things equally.
May all your Majesty's enemies perish as did this Bull.'

"Thus endeth," said the Sage Vishnu-Sarman, "the 'Parting of Friends.'"

"We are gratified exceedingly thereby," replied the Sons of the King.

"Let me then close it thus," said their Preceptor--

      'So be friendship never parted,
      But among the evil-hearted;
      Time's sure step drag, soon or later,
      To his judgment, such a Traitor;
      Lady Lukshmi, of her grace,
      Grant good fortune to this place;
    And you, Royal boys! and boys of times to be
    In this fair fable-garden wander free.'

[12] The white umbrella borne above the heads of Indian rajahs.

[13] The deity of prudence.

[14] Regal authority derives its rights from three sources: Power, Prescription or continuance,
and Wisdom.

[15] The lotus resembles the water-lily, but is more varied in form and color.

WAR

When the next day of instruction was come, the King's sons spake to the Sage, Vishnu-Sarman.

"Master," said they, "we are Princes, and the sons of Princes, and we earnestly desire to hear
thee discourse upon War."

"I am to speak on what shall please you," replied Vishnu-Sarman. "Hear now, therefore, of 'War,'
whose opening is thus:--

    'Between the peoples of Peacock and Swan[16]
    War raged; and evenly the contest ran,
    Until the Swans to trust the Crows began.'

'And how was all that?' asked the sons of the Rajah. Vishnu-Sarman proceeded to relate--

THE BATTLE OF THE SWANS AND PEACOCKS

"In the Isle of Camphor there is a lake called 'Lotus-water,' and therein a Swan-Royal, named
'Silver-sides,' had his residence. The birds of the marsh and the mere had elected him King,
in full council of all the fowls--for a people with no ruler is like a ship that is without
a helmsman. One day King Silver-sides, with his courtiers, was quietly reposing on a couch
of well-spread lotus-blossoms, when a Crane, named 'Long-bill,' who had just arrived from foreign
parts, entered the presence with an obeisance, and sat down.

'What news from abroad, Long-bill?' asked his Majesty.

'Great news, may it please you,' answered the Crane, 'and therefore have I hastened hither.
Will your Majesty hear me?'

'Speak!' said King Silver-sides.

'You must know, my Liege,' began the Crane, 'that over all the birds of the Vindhya mountains
in Jambudwipa a Peacock is King, and his name is 'Jewel-plume,' I was looking for food about
a certain burnt jungle there, when some of his retainers discovered me, and asked my name and
country. 'I am a vassal of King Silver-sides, Lord of the Island of Camphor,' I replied, 'and
I am travelling in foreign lands for my pleasure.' Upon that the birds asked me which country,
my own or theirs, and which King, appeared to me superior. 'How can you ask?' I replied; 'the
island of Camphor is, as it were, Heaven itself, and its King a heaven-born ruler. To dwellers
in a barren land like yours how can I describe them? Come for yourselves, and see the country
where I live.' Thereupon, your Majesty, the birds were exceedingly offended, as one might expect--

    'Simple milk, when serpents drink it, straightway into venom turns;
    And a fool who heareth counsel all the wisdom of it spurns.'

For, indeed, no reflecting person wastes time in admonishing blockheads--

    'The birds that took the apes to teaching,
    Lost eggs and nests in pay for preaching.'

'How did that befall?' asked the King.

The Crane related:--

THE STORY OF THE WEAVER-BIRDS AND THE MONKEYS

"In a nullah that leads down to the Nerbudda river there stood a large silk-cotton tree, where
a colony of weaver-birds had built their hanging nests, and lived snugly in them, whatever
the weather. It was in the rainy season, when the heavens are overlaid with clouds like indigo-sheets,
and a tremendous storm of water was falling. The birds looked out from their nests, and saw
some monkeys, shivering and starved with the cold, standing under a tree. 'Twit! twit! you
Monkeys,' they began to chirrup. 'Listen to us!--

    'With beaks we built these nests, of fibres scattered;
    You that have hands and feet, build, or be spattered.'

On hearing that the Monkeys were by no means pleased. 'Ho! ho!' said they, 'the Birds in their
snug nests are jeering at us; wait till the rain is over,' Accordingly, so soon as the weather
mended, the Monkeys climbed into the tree, and broke all the birds' eggs and demolished every
nest. I ought to have known better,' concluded the Crane, 'than to have wasted my suggestions
on King Jewel-plume's creatures.'

'But what did they say?' asked Silver-sides.

'They said, Rajah,' answered the Crane, 'who made that Swan of thine a King?'

'And what was your reply?' asked Silver-sides.

'I demanded,' replied the Crane, 'who made a King of that Peacock of theirs. Thereupon they
were ready to kill me for rage; but I displayed my very best valor. Is it not written--

    'A modest manner fits a maid,
      And Patience is a man's adorning;
    But brides may kiss, nor do amiss,
      And men may draw, at scathe and scorning.'

'Yet a man should measure his own strength first,' said the Rajah, smiling; 'how did you fare
against King Jewel-plume's fellows?'

'Very scurvily,' replied Long-bill. "Thou rascal Crane," they cried, "dost thou feed on his
soil, and revile our Sovereign? That is past bearing!" And thereat they all pecked at me. Then
they began again: "Thou thick-skulled Crane! that King of thine is a goose--a web-footed lord
of littleness--and thou art but a frog in a well to bid us serve him--- him forsooth!--

    'Serving narrow-minded masters dwarfs high natures to their size:--
    Seen before a convex mirror, elephants do show as mice.'

Bad kings are only strong enough to spoil good vassals--as a fiction once was mightier than
a herd of elephants. You know it, don't you?--

    'Mighty may prove things insignificant:--
    A tale of moonshine turned an elephant.'

'No! how was that?' I asked.

The birds related--

THE STORY OF THE OLD HARE AND THE ELEPHANTS

"Once on a time, very little rain had fallen in the due season; and the Elephants being oppressed
with thirst, thus accosted their leader:--'Master, how are we to live? The small creatures
find something to wash in, but we cannot, and we are half dead in consequence; whither shall
we go then, and what shall we do?' Upon that the King of the Elephants led them away a little
space; and showed them a beautiful pool of crystal water, where they took their ease. Now it
chanced that a company of Hares resided on the banks of the pool, and the going and coming
of the elephants trampled many of them to death, till one of their number named Hard-head grumbled
out, 'This troop will be coming here to water every day, and every one of our family will be
crushed.' 'Do not disquiet yourself,' said an old buck named Good-speed, 'I will contrive to
avert it,' and so saying, he set off, bethinking himself on his way how he should approach
and accost a herd of elephants; for,

    'Elephants destroy by touching, snakes with point of tooth beguile;
    Kings by favor kill, and traitors murder with a fatal smile.'

'I will get on the top of a hill,' he thought, 'and address the Elephants thence.'

"This being done, and the Lord of the herd perceiving him, it was asked of the Hare, 'Who art
thou? and whence comest thou?'

'I am an ambassador from his Godship the Moon,' replied Good-speed.

'State your business,' said the Elephant-king.

'Sire,' began the Hare, 'an ambassador speaks the truth safely by charter of his name. Thus
saith the Moon, then: "These hares were the guardians of my pool, and thine elephants in coming
thither have scared them away. This is not well. Am I not Sasanka, whose banner bears a hare,
and are not these hares my votaries?"'

'Please your worship,' said the Elephant-king with much trepidation, 'we knew nothing of this;
we will go there no more.'

'It were well,' said the sham ambassador, 'that you first made your apologies to the Divinity,
who is quaking with rage in his pool, and then went about your business.'

'We will do so,' replied the Elephant with meekness; and being led by night to the pool, in
the ripples of which the image of the Moon was quivering, the herd made their prostrations;
the Hare explaining to the Moon that their fault was done in ignorance, and thereupon they
got their dismissal.'

'Nay,' I said, 'my Sovereign is no fiction, but a great King and a noble, and one that might
govern the Three Worlds, much more a kingdom,'

'Thou shalt talk thy treason in the presence,' they cried; and therewith I was dragged before
King Jewel-plume.

'Who is this?' asked the Rajah.

'He is a servant of King Silver-sides, of the Island of Camphor,' they replied; 'and he slights
your Majesty, on your Majesty's own land.'

'Sirrah Crane!' said the Prime Minister, a Vulture, 'who is chief officer in that court?'

'A Brahmany Goose,' I answered, 'named "Know-all"; and he does know every possible science.'

'Sire,' broke in a Parrot, 'this Camphor-isle and the rest are poor places, and belong to Jambudwipa.
Your Majesty has but to plant the royal foot upon them.'

'Oh! of course,' said the King.

'Nay,' said I, 'if talking makes your Majesty King of Camphor-island, my Liege may be lord
of Jambudwipa by a better title.'

'And that?' said the Parrot.

'Is fighting!' I responded.

'Good!' said the King, with a smile; 'bid your people prepare for war.'

'Not so,' I replied; 'but send your own ambassador.'

'Who will bear the message?' asked the Rajah. 'He should be loyal, dexterous, and bold.'

'And virtuous,' said the Vulture, 'and therefore a Brahman:--

    'Better Virtue marked a herald than that noble blood should deck;
    Shiva reigns forever Shiva while the sea-wave stains his neck.'

'Then let the Parrot be appointed,' said the Rajah.

'I am your Majesty's humble servant,' replied the Parrot; 'but this Crane is a bad character,
and with the bad I never like to travel. The ten-headed Ravana carried off the wife of Ramchundra!
It does not do,

    'With evil people neither stay nor go;
    The Heron died for being with the Crow.'

'How did that befall?' asked the King. The Parrot related:--

THE STORY OF THE HERON AND THE CROW

'The high-road to Oogein is a very unshaded and sultry one; but there stands upon it one large
Peepul-tree, and therein a Crow and a Heron had their residence together. It was in the hot
weather that a tired traveller passed that way, and, for the sake of the shade, he laid his
bow and arrows down, and dropped asleep under the tree. Before long the shadow of the tree
shifted, and left his face exposed to the glare; which the Heron perceiving, like the kindly
bird he was, perched on the Peepul-tree, and spread his wings out so as to cast a shadow on
the traveller's face. There the poor fellow, weary with his travel, continued to sleep soundly,
and snored away comfortably with open mouth. The sight of his enjoyment was too much for the
malevolent Crow, who, perching over him, dropped an unwelcome morsel into the sleeper's mouth,
and straightway flew off. The traveller, starting from his slumber, looked about, and, seeing
no bird but the Heron, he fitted an arrow and shot him dead. No!' concluded the Parrot, 'I
like the society of honest folk.'

'But why these words, my brother?' I said; 'his Majesty's herald is to me even as his Majesty.'

'Very fine!' replied the Parrot; 'but--

    'Kindly courtesies that issue from a smiling villain's mouth
    Serve to startle, like a flower blossoming in time of drouth.'

Needs must that thou art a bad man; for by thy talk war will have arisen, which a little conciliation
had averted:--

    'Conciliation!--weapon of the wise!
    Wheedled therewith, by woman's quick device,
    The Wheelwright let his ears betray his eyes.'

'How came that about?' asked the King. The Parrot related:--

THE STORY OF THE APPEASED WHEELWRIGHT

"There was a Wheelwright in Shri-nuggur, whose name was 'Heavy-head,' He had good reason to
suspect the infidelity of his wife, but he had no absolute proof of it. One day he gave out
that he should go to a neighboring town, and he started accordingly; but he went a very little
way, and then returning, hid himself in his wife's chamber. She being quite satisfied that
he was really gone away, invited her gallant to pass the evening with her, and began to spend
it with him in unrestrained freedom. Presently, by chance, she detected the presence of her
husband, and her manner instantly changed.

'Life of my soul! what ails you?' said her lover; 'you are quite dull to-night.'

'I am dull,' she replied, 'because the lord of my life is gone. Without my husband the town
is a wilderness. Who knows what may befall him, and whether he will have a nice supper?'

'Trouble thyself no more about the quarrelsome dullard,' said her gallant.

'Dullard, quotha!' exclaimed the wife. 'What matter what he is, since he is my all? Knowest
thou not--

    'Of the wife the lord is jewel, though no gems upon her beam;
    Lacking him, she lacks adornment, howsoe'er her jewels gleam?'

Thou, and the like of thee, may serve a whim, as we chew a betel-leaf and trifle with a flower;
but my husband is my master, and can do with me as he will. My life is wrapped up in him--and
when he dies, alas! I will certainly die too. Is it not plainly said--

    'Hairs three-crore, and half-a-crore hairs, on a man so many grow--
    And so many years to Swerga shall the true wife surely go?'

And better still is promised; as herein--

    'When the faithful wife,[17] embracing tenderly her husband dead,
    Mounts the blazing pile beside him, as it were the bridal-bed;
    Though his sins were twenty thousand, twenty thousand times o'er-told,
    She shall bring his soul to splendor, for her love so large and bold.'

All this the Wheelwright heard. 'What a lucky fellow I am,' he thought, 'to have a wife so
virtuous,' and rushing from his place of concealment, he exclaimed in ecstasy to his wife's
gallant, 'Sir I saw you ever truer wife than mine?'

'When the story was concluded,' said Long-bill, 'the King, with a gracious gift of food, sent
me off before the Parrot; but he is coming after me, and it is now for your Majesty to determine
as it shall please you.'

'My Liege,' observed the Brahmany-goose with a sneer, 'the Crane has done the King's business
in foreign parts to the best of his power, which is that of a fool.'

"Let the past pass," replied the King, "and take thought for the present."

"Be it in secret, then, your Majesty," said the Brahmany-goose--

    'Counsel unto six ears spoken, unto all is notified:--
    When a King holds consultation, let it be with one beside,'

Thereupon all withdrew, but the Rajah and the Minister.

'What think you?' said Silver-sides.

'That the Crane has been employed to bring this about,' replied the other.

'What shall we do?' asked the King.

'Despatch two spies--the first to inform and send back the other, and make us know the enemy's
strength or weakness. They must be such as can travel by land and water, so the Crane will
serve for one, and we will keep his family in pledge at the King's gate. The other must be
a very reserved character; as it is said--

    'Sick men are for skilful leeches--prodigals for prisoning--
    Fools for teachers--and the man who keeps a secret, for a King,'

'I know such a one,' said his Majesty, after a pause.

'It is half the victory,' responded the Minister.

At this juncture a chamberlain entered with a profound obeisance, and announced the arrival
from Jambudwipa of the Parrot.

'Let him be shown to a reception-room,' commanded the Goose, in reply to a look from the King.
'He shall presently have audience.'

'War is pronounced, then,' said the King, as the attendant withdrew.

'It is offered, my Liege; but must not be rashly accepted,' replied the other--

    'With gift, craft, promise, cause thy foe to yield;
    When these have failed thee, challenge him a-field.'

To gain time for expedients is the first point. Expedients are good for great and little matters
equally, like

    'The subtle wash of waves, that smoothly pass,
    But lay the tree as lowly as the grass.'

Let his Excellency the Parrot, then, be cajoled and detained here, while we place our fort
in condition to be useful. Is it not said--

    'Ten true bowmen on a rampart fifty's onset may sustain;
    Fortalices keep a country more than armies in the plain?'

And your Majesty,' continued the Goose, 'will recall the points of a good fortress--

    'Build it strong, and build it spacious, with an entry and retreat;
    Store it well with wood and water, fill its garners full with wheat.'

'Whom, then, shall we entrust with this work?' asked King Silver-sides.

'The Paddy-bird[18] is a good bird, and a skilful,' replied his Minister.

'Let him be summoned!' said the King. And upon the entrance of the Paddy-bird, the superintendence
of the fortress was committed to him, and accepted with a low prostration.

'As to the fort, Sire!' remarked the Paddy-bird, 'it exists already in yonder large pool; the
thing is to store the island in the middle of it with provisions--

    'Gems will no man's life sustain;
    Best of gold is golden grain.'

'Good!' said King Silver-sides; 'let it be looked to.' Thereupon, as the Paddy-bird was retiring,
the Usher entered again, and making prostration, said: 'May it please your Majesty, the King
of all the Crows, Night-cloud by name, has just arrived from Singhala-dwipa, and desires to
lay his homage at your Majesty's feet.'

'He is a wise bird, and a far-travelled,' said the King; 'I think we must give him audience.'

Nevertheless, Sire,' interrupted the Goose, 'we must not forget that he is a land-bird, and
therefore not to be received as a water-fowl. Your royal memory doubtless retains the story of

    'The Jackal's fate, who being colored blue,
    Leaving his party, left his own life too.'

'No! How was that?' asked King Silver-sides. The Goose related--

THE STORY OF THE DYED JACKAL

"A Jackal once on a time, as he was prowling about the suburbs of a town, slipped into an indigo-tank;
and not being able to get out he laid himself down so as to be taken for dead. The dyer presently
coming and finding what seemed a dead Jackal, carried him into the jungle and then flung him
away. Left to himself, the Jackal found his natural color changed to a splendid blue. 'Really,'
he reflected, 'I am now of a most magnificent tint; why should I not make it conduce to my
elevation?' With this view, he assembled the other Jackals, and thus harangued them:--

'Good people, the Goddess of the Wood, with her own divine hand, and with every magical herb
of the forest, has anointed me King. Behold the complexion of royalty!--and henceforward transact
nothing without my imperial permission."

"The Jackals, overcome by so distinguished a color, could do nothing but prostrate themselves
and promise obedience. His reign, thus begun, extended in time to the lions and tigers; and
with these high-born attendants he allowed himself to despise the Jackals, keeping his own
kindred at a distance, as though ashamed of them. The Jackals were indignant, but an old beast
of their number thus consoled them:--

"Leave the impudent fellow to me. I will contrive his ruin. These tigers and the rest think
him a King, because he is colored blue; we must show them his true colors. Do this, now!--in
the evening-time come close about him, and set up a great yell together--he is sure to join
in, as he used to do--

    'Hard it is to conquer nature: if a dog were made a King,
    Mid the coronation trumpets, he would gnaw his sandal-string.'

And when he yells the Tigers will know him for a Jackal and fall upon him.'

'The thing befell exactly so, and the Jackal,' concluded the Minister, 'met the fate of one
who leaves his proper party.'

'Still,' said the King, 'the Crow has come a long way, and we might see him, I think.'

'Admit the Parrot first, Sire,' said the Goose; 'the fort has been put in order and the spy
despatched.'

"Thereupon a Court was called, and the Parrot introduced, followed by Night-cloud, the Crow.
A seat was offered to the parrot, who took it, and, with his beak in the air, thus delivered
his mission:--

'King Silver-sides!--My master, the King Jewel-plume, Lord of Lords, bids thee, if life and
lands be dear to thee, to come and make homage at his august feet; and failing this to get
thee gone from Camphor-island.'

'S'death!' exclaimed the Rajah, 'is there none that will silence this traitor?'

'Give the sign, your Majesty,' said the Crow, starting up, 'and I will despatch this audacious
bird.'

'Sir,' said the Goose, 'be calm! and Sire, deign to listen--

    ''Tis no Council where no Sage is--'tis no Sage that fears not Law;
    'Tis no Law which Truth confirms not--'tis no Truth which Fear can
            awe.'

An ambassador must speak unthreatened--

    'Though base be the Herald, nor hinder nor let,
      For the mouth of a king is he;
    The sword may be whet, and the battle set,
      But the word of his message is free.'

Thereat the Rajah and Night-cloud resumed their composure; and the Parrot took his departure,
escorted by the Minister, and presented with complimentary gifts of gold and jewels. On reaching
the palace of Jewel-plume, the King demanded his tidings, and inquired of the country he had
visited.

'War must be prepared, may it please you,' said the Parrot: 'the country is a country of Paradise.'

'Prepare for war, then!' said the King.

'We must not enter on it in the face of destiny,' interposed the Vulture-Minister, whose title
was 'Far-sight.'

'Let the Astrologer then discover a favorable conjuncture for the expedition, and let my forces
be reviewed meantime,' said the King.

'We must not march without great circumspection,' observed Far-sight.

'Minister!' exclaimed the King, 'you chafe me. Say, however, with what force we should set out.'

'It should be well selected, rather than unwieldy,' replied the Vulture--

    'Better few and chosen fighters than of shaven crowns a host,
    For in headlong flight confounded, with the base the brave are lost.'

And its commanders must be judiciously appointed; for it is said--

    'Ever absent, harsh, unjustly portioning the captured prey--
    These, and cold or laggard leaders make a host to melt away.'

'Ah!' interrupted the Rajah, 'what need of so much talk? We will go, and, if Váchaspati please,
we will conquer.'

Shortly afterwards the Spy returned to Camphor-island. 'King Silver-sides,' he cried, 'the
Rajah, Jewel-plume, is on his way hither, and has reached the Ghauts. Let the fort be manned,
for that Vulture is a great minister; and I have learned, too, that there is one among us who
is in his pay.'

'King!' said the Goose, 'that must be the Crow.'

'But whence, then, did he show such willingness to punish the Parrot?' objected his Majesty.
'Besides, war was declared long after the Crow came to Court.'

'I misdoubt him,' said the Minister, 'because he is a stranger.'

'But strangers surely may be well-disposed,' replied the King. 'How say the books?--

    'Kind is kin, howe'er a stranger--kin unkind is stranger shown;
    Sores hurt, though the body breeds them--drugs relieve, though
            desert-grown.'

Have you never heard of King Sudraka and the unknown Servant, who gave his son's life for the King?

'Never,' answered the Goose.

THE STORY OF THE FAITHFUL RAJPOOT

"I will tell you the tale," said the King, "as I heard it from 'Lilyflower,' daughter of the
Flamingo 'White-flag,' of whom I was once very fond:--A soldier presented himself one morning
at King Sudraka's gate, and bade the porter procure an audience for 'Vira-vara, a Rajpoot,'[19]
who sought employment. Being admitted to the presence, he thus addressed the King:--

'If your Highness needs an attendant, behold one!'

'What pay do you ask?' inquired the King.

'Five hundred pieces of gold a day,' said Vira-vara.

'And your accoutrements?' asked the King.

'Are these two arms, and this sabre, which serve for a third,' said Vira-vara, rolling up his
sleeve.

'I cannot entertain you,' rejoined his Majesty; and thereupon the Rajpoot made salaam, and
withdrew. Then said the Ministers, 'If it please your Majesty, the stipend is excessive, but
give him pay for four days, and see wherein he may deserve it.' Accordingly, the Rajpoot was
recalled, and received wages for four days, with the complimentary betel.--Ah! the rare betel!
Truly say the wise of it--

    'Betel-nut is bitter, hot, sweet, spicy, binding, alkaline--
    A demulcent--an astringent--foe to evils intestine;
    Giving to the breath a fragrance--to the lips a crimson red;
    A detergent, and a kindler of Love's flame that lieth dead.
    Praise the gods for the good Betel!--these be thirteen virtues given,
    Hard to meet in one thing blended, even in their happy heaven.'

'Now the King narrowly watched the spending of Vira-vara's pay, and discovered that he bestowed
half in the service of the Gods and the support of Brahmans, a fourth part in relieving the
poor, and reserved a fourth for his sustenance and recreation. This daily division made, he
would take his stand with his sabre at the gate of the palace; retiring only upon receiving
the royal permission.

'It was on the fourteenth night of the dark half of the month that King Sudraka heard below
a sound of passionate sobbing. 'Ho! there,' he cried, 'who waits at the gate?'

'I,' replied Vira-vara, 'may it please you.'

'Go and learn what means this weeping,' said the King.

'I go, your Majesty,' answered the Rajpoot, and therewith departed.

'No sooner was he gone than the King repented him of sending one man alone into a night so
dark that a bodkin might pierce a hole in it, and girding on his scimitar, he followed his
guard beyond the city gates. When Vira-vara had gone thus far he encountered a beautiful and
splendidly dressed lady who was weeping bitterly; and accosting her, he requested to know her
name, and why she thus lamented.

'I am the Fortune of the King Sudraka,' answered she; 'a long while I have lived happily in
the shadow of his arm; but on the third day he will die, and I must depart, and therefore lament
I.'

'Can nothing serve, Divine Lady, to prolong thy stay?' asked the Rajpoot.

'It might be,' replied the Spirit, 'if thou shouldst cut off the head of thy first-born Shaktidhar,
that hath on his body the thirty-two auspicious marks of greatness. Were his head offered to
the all-helpful Durga, the Rajah should live a hundred years, and I might tarry beside him.'

'So speaking, she disappeared, and Vira-vara retraced his steps to his own house and awoke
his wife and son. They arose, and listened with attention until Vira-vara had repeated all
the words of the vision. When he had finished, Shaktidhar exclaimed, 'I am thrice happy to
be able to save the state of the King. Kill me, my father, and linger not; to give my life
in such a cause is good indeed,' 'Yes,' said the Mother, 'it is good, and worthy of our blood;
how else should we deserve the King's pay?' Being thus agreed, they repaired together at once
to the temple of the Goddess Durga, and having paid their devotions and entreated the favor
of the deity on behalf of the King, Vira-vara struck off his son's head, and laid it as an
offering upon the shrine. That done, Vira-vara said, 'My service to the King is accomplished,
and life without my boy is but a burden,' and therewith he plunged his sword in his own breast
and fell dead. Overpowered with grief for her husband and child, the mother also withdrew the
twice-blooded weapon, and slew herself with it on the bodies of Vira-vara and Shaktidhar.

'All this was heard and seen by King Sudraka, and he stood aghast at the sad sight. 'Woe is
me!' he exclaimed--

    'Kings may come, and Kings may go;
    What was I, to bring these low?
    Souls so noble, slain for me,
    Were not, and will never be!'

What reck I of my realm, having lost these?' and thereat he drew his scimitar to take his own
life also. At that moment there appeared to him the Goddess, who is Mistress of all men's fortunes.
'Son,' said she, staying his lifted hand, 'forbear thy rash purpose, and bethink thee of thy
kingdom.'

"The Rajah fell prostrate before her, and cried--'O Goddess! I am done with life and wealth
and kingdom! If thou hast compassion on me, let my death restore these faithful ones to life;
anywise I follow the path they have marked,' 'Son,' replied the Goddess, 'thine affection is
pleasing to me: be it as thou wilt! The Rajpoot and his house shall be rendered alive to thee.'
Then the King departed, and presently saw Vira-vara return, and take up again his station as
before at the palace-gate.

'Ho! there, Vira-vara!' cried the King, 'what meant the weeping?'

'Let your Majesty rest well!' answered the Rajpoot, 'it was a woman who wept, and disappeared
on my approach.' This answer completed the Rajah's astonishment and delight; for we know--

    'He is brave whose tongue is silent of the trophies of his sword;
    He is great whose quiet bearing marks his greatness well assured.'

So when the day was come, he called a full council, and, declaring therein all the events of
the night, he invested the faithful guard with the sovereignty of the Carnatic.

"Thus, then," concluded King Silver-sides, "in entertaining strangers a man may add to his
friends."

"It may well be," replied the Goose; "but a Minister should advise what is expedient, and not
what is pleasing in sentiment:--

    'When the Priest, the Leech, the Vizir of a King his flatterers be,
    Very soon the King will part with health, and wealth, and piety.'

'Let it pass, then,' said Silver-sides, 'and turn we to the matter in hand. King Jewel-plume
is even now pitched under the Ghauts. What think you?'

'That we shall vanquish him,' replied the Goose; 'for he disregards, as I learn, the counsel
of that great statesman, the Vulture Far-sight; and the wise have said--

    'Merciless, or money-loving, deaf to counsel, false of faith,
    Thoughtless, spiritless, or careless, changing course with every
            breath,
    Or the man who scorns his rival--if a prince should choose a foe,
    Ripe for meeting and defeating, certes he would choose him so.

He is marching without due preparation; let us send the Paddy-bird at the head of a force and
attack him on his march."

Accordingly the Paddy-bird, setting out with a force of water-fowl, fell upon the host of the
Peacock-king, and did immense execution. Disheartened thereat, King Jewel-plume summoned Far-sight,
his Minister, and acknowledged to him his precipitation.

'Wherefore do you abandon us, my father?' he said. 'Correct for us what has been done amiss.

'My Liege,' replied the Vulture, 'it has been well observed--

    'By the valorous and unskilful great achievements are not wrought;
    Courage, led by careful Prudence, unto highest ends is brought.'

You have set Strength in the seat of Counsel, your Majesty, and he hath clumsily spoiled your
plans. How indeed could it fall otherwise? for--

    'Grief kills gladness, winter summer, midnight-gloom the light of day,
    Kindnesses ingratitude, and pleasant friends drive pain away;
    Each ends each, but none of other surer conquerors can be
    Than Impolicy of Fortune--of Misfortune Policy.'

I have said to myself, 'My Prince's understanding is affected--how else would he obscure the
moonlight of policy with the night-vapors of talk;' in such a mood I cannot help him--

    'Wisdom answers all who ask her, but a fool she cannot aid;
    Blind men in the faithful mirror see not their reflection made.'

And therefore I have been absent.'

'My father!' said the King, joining his palms in respect, 'mine is all the fault! Pardon it,
and instruct me how to withdraw my army without further loss.'

Then the Vulture's anger melted, and he reflected--

    'Where the Gods are, or thy Guru--in the face of Pain and Age,
    Cattle, Brahmans, Kings, and Children--reverently curb thy rage.'

And with a benignant smile, he answered the King thus, 'Be of good heart, my Liege; thou shalt
not only bring the host back safely, but thou shalt first destroy the castle of King Silver-sides.'

'How can that be, with my diminished forces?' asked the Rajah.

'It will come to pass!' answered the Vulture. 'Break up to-day for the blockade of the fort.'

Now, when this was reported by the spies to King Silver-sides, he was greatly alarmed. 'Good
Goose!' said he, 'what is to be done? Here is the King of the Peacocks at hand, to blockade
us--by his Minister's advice, too.'

'Sire,' replied the Goose, 'separate the efficient and the inefficient in your force; and stimulate
the loyalty of the first, with a royal bounty of gold and dresses, as each may seem to merit.
Now is the time for it--

    'Oh, my Prince! on eight occasions prodigality is none--
    In the solemn sacrificing, at the wedding of a son,
    When the glittering treasure given makes the proud invader bleed,
    Or its lustre bringeth comfort to the people in their need,
    Or when kinsmen are to succor, or a worthy work to end,
    Or to do a mistress honor, or to welcome back a friend.'

'But is this expenditure needed?' said the King.

'It is needed, my Liege,' said the Goose, 'and it befits a Monarch; for--

    'Truth, munificence, and valor, are the virtues of a King;
    Royalty, devoid of either, sinks to a rejected thing.'

'Let it be incurred then!' replied the King.

At this moment Night-cloud, the Crow, made his appearance. 'Deign me one regard, Sire,' said
he, 'the insolent enemy is at our gates; let your Majesty give the word, and I will go forth
and show my valor and devotion to your Crown.'

'It were better to keep our cover,' said the Goose. 'Wherefore else builded we this fortalice?
Is it not said?--

    'Hold thy vantage!--alligators on the land make none afraid;
    And the lion's but a jackal that hath left his forest-shade.'

But go, your Majesty, and encourage our warriors." Thereupon they repaired to the Gateway of
the Fort, and all day the battle raged there.

It was the morning after, when King Jewel-plume spake thus to his Minister the Vulture--'Good
sir, shall thy promise be kept to us?'

'It shall be kept, your Majesty,' replied the Vulture; 'storm the fort!'

'We will storm it!' said the Peacock-king. The sun was not well-risen accordingly when the
attack was made, and there arose hot fighting at all the four gates. It was then that the traitorous
Crows, headed by their Monarch, Night-cloud, put fire to every dwelling in the citadel, and
raised a shout of 'The Fort is taken! it is taken!' At this terrible sound the soldiers of
the Swan-king forsook their posts, and plunged into the pool.

Not thus King Silver-sides:--retiring coolly before the foe, with his General the Paddy-bird,
he was cut off and encircled by the troopers of King Jewel-plume, under the command of his
Marshal, the Cock.

'My General,' said the King, 'thou shalt not perish for me. Fly! I can go no farther. Fly!
I bid thee, and take counsel with the Goose that Crest-jewel, my son, be named King!'

'Good my Lord,' replied the Paddy-bird, 'speak not thus! Let your Majesty reign victorious
while the sun and moon endure. I am governor of your Majesty's fortress, and if the enemy enter
it he shall but do so over my body; let me die for thee, my Master!--

    'Gentle, generous, and discerning; such a Prince the Gods do give!'

'That shalt thou not,' replied the Rajah--

    'Skilful, honest, and true-hearted; where doth such a Vassal live?'

'Nay! my royal Lord, escape!' cried the Paddy-bird; a king's life is the life of his people--

    'The people are the lotus-leaves, their monarch is the sun--
    When he doth sink beneath the waves they vanish every one.

    When he doth rise they rise again with bud and blossom rife,
    To bask awhile in his warm smile, who is their lord and life.'

'Think no more of me.' At this instant the Cock rushing forward, inflicted a wound with his
sharp spurs on the person of the King; but the Paddy-bird sprang in front of him, and receiving
on his body the blows designed for the Rajah, forced him away into the pool. Then turning upon
the Cock, he despatched him with a shower of blows from his long bill; and finally succumbed,
fighting in the midst of his enemies. Thus the King of the Peacocks captured the fortress;
and marched home with all the treasure in it, amid songs of victory.

Then spake the Princes: "In that army of the Swans there was no soldier like the Paddy-bird,
who gave his own life for the King's."

"There be nowhere many such," replied Vishnu-Sarman; "for

    'All the cows bring forth are cattle--only now and then is born
    An authentic lord of pastures, with his shoulder-scratching horn.'[20]

"It is well spoken," said the Princes.

"But for him that dares to die so," added the Sage, "may an eternal heaven be reserved, and
may the lustrous Angels of Paradise, the Apsaras, conduct him thither! Is it not so declared,
indeed?--

    'When the soldier in the battle lays his life down for his king,
    Unto Swerga's perfect glory such a deed his soul shall bring.'

"It is so declared," said the Rajah's sons.

"And now, my Princes," concluded Vishnu-Sarman, "you have listened to 'War.'"

"We have listened, and are gratified," replied the sons of the King.

"Let me end then," said their Preceptor, "with this--

      'If the clouds of Battle lower
      When ye come into your power,
      Durga grant the foes that dare you
      Bring no elephants to scare you;
      Nor the thunderous rush of horses,
      Nor the footmen's steel-fringed forces:
    But overblown by Policy's strong breath,
    Hide they in caverns from the avenging death.'

[16] The peacock is wild in most Indian jungles. The swan is a species of flamingo of a white
color. The voice and gait of a beautiful woman are likened by the Hindoo poets to those of
the swan.

[17] By such a death as that alluded to, she earns the title of Sati, the "excellent."

[18] The common Indian crane; a graceful white bird, seen everywhere in the interior of Hindoostan.

[19] A man of military caste.

[20] Large branching horns which reach backward and rub upon his shoulders.

PEACE

When the time came for resuming instruction, the King's sons said to Vishnu-Sarman, "Master,
we have heard of War, we would now learn somewhat of the treaties which follow war." "It is
well asked," replied the Sage; "listen therefore to 'Peace,' which hath this commencement--

    'When those great Kings their weary war did cease,
    The Vulture and the Goose concluded Peace.'

'How came that?' asked the Princes.

Vishnu-Sarman related:--

THE TREATY BETWEEN THE PEACOCKS AND THE SWANS

"So soon as King Jewel-plume had retreated, the first care of King Silver-sides was the discovery
of the treason that had cost him the fort.

'Goose,' he said to his Minister, 'who put the fire to our citadel, think you? Was it an enemy
or an inmate?'

'Sire,' replied the Goose, 'Night-cloud and his followers are nowhere to be seen--it must needs
be his work.'

'It must needs be,' sighed the King, after a pause; 'but what ill-fortune!'

'If it please your Majesty, no,' replied the Minister; 'it is written--

    "'Tis the fool who, meeting trouble, straightway destiny reviles;
    Knowing not his own misdoing brought his own mischance the whiles."

You have forgotten the saying--

    'Who listens not, when true friends counsel well,
    Must fall, as once the foolish Tortoise fell.'

'I never heard it,' said the King. 'How was that?' The Goose related--

THE STORY OF THE TORTOISE AND THE GEESE

"There is a pool in South Behar called the 'Pool of the Blue Lotus,' and two Geese had for
a long time lived there. They had a friend in the pool who was a Tortoise, and he was known
as 'Shelly-neck,' It chanced one evening that the Tortoise overheard some fishermen talking
by the water. 'We will stop here to-night,' they said, 'and in the morning we will catch the
fish, the tortoises, and such like.' Extremely alarmed at this, the Tortoise repaired to his
friends the Geese, and reported the conversation.

'What ever am I to do, Gossips?' he asked.

'The first thing is to be assured of the danger,' said the Geese.

'I am assured,' exclaimed the Tortoise; 'the first thing is to avoid it: don't you know?--

    'Time-not-come' and 'Quick-at-peril,' these two fishes 'scaped the net;
    'What-will-be-will-be,' he perished, by the fishermen beset.'

'No,' said the Geese,' how was it?' Shelly-neck related:--

THE STORY OF FATE AND THE THREE FISHES

"It was just such a pool as this, and on the arrival at it of just such men as these fishermen,
that three fishes, who had heard their designs, held consultation as to what should be done.

'I shall go to another water,' said "Time-not-come," and away he went.

'Why should we leave unless obliged?' asked "Quick-at-peril." 'When the thing befalls I shall
do the best I can--

    'Who deals with bad dilemmas well, is wise.
    The merchant's wife, with womanly device,
    Kissed--and denied the kiss--under his eyes.'

'How was that?' asked the other fish. Quick-at-peril related:--

THE STORY OF THE UNABASHED WIFE

"There was a trader in Vikrama-poora, who had a very beautiful wife, and her name was Jewel-bright.
The lady was as unfaithful as she was fair, and had chosen for her last lover one of the household
servants. Ah! womankind!--

    'Sex, that tires of being true,
    Base and new is brave to you!
    Like the jungle-cows ye range,
    Changing food for sake of change.'

Now it befell one day that as Jewel-bright was bestowing a kiss on the mouth of the servant,
she was surprised by her husband; and seeing him she ran up hastily and said, 'My lord, here
is an impudent varlet! he eats the camphor which I procured for you; I was actually smelling
it on his lips as you entered.' The servant catching her meaning, affected offence. 'How can
a man stay in a house where the mistress is always smelling one's lips for a little camphor?'
he said; and thereat he was for going off, and was only constrained by the good man to stay,
after much entreaty. 'Therefore,' said Quick-at-peril, 'I mean to abide here, and make the
best I can of what befalls, as she did.'

'Yes, yes,' said What-will-be-will-be, 'we all know

    'That which will not be will not be, and what is to be will be:--
    Why not drink this easy physic, antidote of misery?'

'When the morning came, the net was thrown, and both the fishes inclosed. Quick-at-peril, on
being drawn up, feigned himself dead; and upon the fisherman's laying him aside, he leaped
off again into the water. As to What-will-be-will-be, he was seized and forthwith dispatched.--And
that,' concluded the Tortoise, 'is why I wish to devise some plan of escape.'

'It might be compassed if you could go elsewhere,' said the Geese, 'but how can you get across
the ground?'

'Can't you take me through the air?' asked the Tortoise.

'Impossible!' said the Geese.

'Not at all!' replied the Tortoise; 'you shall hold a stick across in your bills, and I will
hang on to it by my mouth--and thus you can readily convey me,'

'It is feasible,' observed the Geese, 'but remember,

    'Wise men their plans revolve, lest ill befall;
    The Herons gained a friend, and so, lost all.'

'How came that about?' asked the Tortoise. The Geese related:--

THE STORY OF THE HERONS AND THE MONGOOSE

"Among the mountains of the north there is one named Eagle-cliff, and near it, upon a fig-tree,
a flock of Herons had their residence. At the foot of the tree, in a hollow, there lived a
serpent; and he was constantly devouring the nestlings of the Herons. Loud were the complaints
of the parent birds, until an old Heron thus advised them:--'You should bring some fishes from
the pool, and lay them one by one in a line from the hole of yonder Mongoose to the hollow
where the Serpent lives. The Mongoose will find him when it comes after the fish, and if it
finds him it will kill him.' The advice seemed good, and was acted upon; but in killing the
Snake the Mongoose overheard the cry of the young Herons; and climbing the tree daily, he devoured
all that the Snake had left. Therefore,' concluded the Geese, 'do we bid you look well into
your plan: if you should open your mouth, for instance, as we carry you, you will drop and
be killed.'

'Am I a fool,' cried the Tortoise, 'to open my mouth? Not I! Come now, convey me!'

'Thereupon the Geese took up the stick; the Tortoise held fast with his mouth, and away they
flew. The country people, observing this strange sight, ran after.

'Ho! ho!' cried one, 'look at the flying Tortoise!'

'When he falls we'll cook and eat him here,' said another.

'No; let us take him home for dinner!' cried a third.

'We can light a fire by the pool, and eat him,' said the first.

'The Tortoise heard these unkind remarks in a towering passion. 'Eat me!--eat ashes!' he exclaimed,
opening his mouth--and down he fell directly, and was caught by the countrymen.--Said I not
well,' concluded the Goose-Minister, 'that to scorn counsel is to seek destruction?'

'You have well said,' replied King Silver-sides, disconsolately.

'Yes, your Majesty,' interposed the Crane, who was just returned, 'if the Fort had been cleared,
Night-cloud could not have fired it, as he did, by the Vulture's instigation.'

'We see it all,' sighed the King, 'but too late!'

    'Whoso trusts, for service rendered, or fair words, an enemy,
    Wakes from folly like one falling in his slumber from a tree.'

'I witnessed Night-cloud's reception,' continued the Crane. 'King Jewel-plume showed him great
favor, and was for anointing him Rajah of Camphor-island.'

'Hear you that, my Liege?' asked the Goose.

'Go on; I hear!' said Silver-sides.

'To that the Vulture demurred,' continued the Crane:--'"favor to low persons," he said, "was
like writing on the sea-sand. To set the base-born in the seat of the great was long ago declared
impolitic--

    'Give mean men power, and give thy throat to the knife;
    The Mouse, made Tiger, sought his master's life.'

'How was that?' asked King Jewel-plume. The Vulture related--

THE STORY OF THE RECLUSE AND THE MOUSE

"In the forest of the Sage Gautama there dwelt a Recluse named Mighty-at-Prayer. Once, as he
sat at his frugal meal, a young mouse dropped beside him from the beak of a crow, and he took
it up and fed it tenderly with rice grains. Some time after the Saint observed a cat pursuing
his dependent to devour it, whereupon he changed the mouse into a stout cat. The cat was a
great deal harassed by dogs, upon which the Saint again transformed it into a dog. The dog
was always in danger of the tigers, and his protector at last gave him the form of a tiger--considering
him all this while, and treating him withal, like nothing but a mouse. The country-folk passing
by would say, 'That a tiger! not he; it is a mouse the Saint has transformed.' And the mouse
being vexed at this, reflected, 'So long as the Master lives, this shameful story of my origin
will survive!' With this thought he was about to take the Saint's life, when he, who knew his
purpose, turned the ungrateful beast by a word to his original shape. Besides, your Majesty,"
continued the Vulture, "it may not be so easy to take in Camphor-island--

    'Many fine fishes did the old Crane kill,
    But the Crab matched him, maugre all his bill.'

'How came that to pass?' asked Jewel-plume.

'The Vulture related:--

THE STORY OF THE CRANE AND THE CRAB

"There was an old Crane at a mere called Lily-water, in Malwa, who stood one day in the shallows
with a most dejected look and drooping bill. A Crab observed him and called out, 'Friend Crane!
have you given up eating, that you stand there all day?' 'Nay, sir!' replied the old Crane;
'I love my dish of fish, but I have heard the fishermen say that they mean to capture every
one that swims in this water; and as that destroys my hope of subsistence, I am resigning myself
to death.' All this the fishes overheard. 'In this matter certainly,' they said, 'his interest
is ours; we ought to consult him; for it is written--

    'Fellow be with kindly foemen, rather than with friends unkind;
    Friend and foeman are distinguished not by title but by mind.'

Thereupon they repaired to him: 'Good Crane,' they said, 'what course is there for safety?'

'Course of safety there is,' replied the Crane, 'to go elsewhere; and I will carry you one
by one to another pool, if you please.'

'Do so,' said the trembling fishes.

"The Crane accordingly took one after another, and having eaten them returned with the report
that he had safely deposited each. Last of all, the Crab requested to be taken; and the Crane,
coveting his tender flesh, took him up with great apparent respect. On arriving at the spot,
which was covered with fish-bones, the Crab perceived the fate reserved for him; and turning
round he fastened upon the Crane's throat and tore it so that he perished.'

'Well, but,' said King Jewel-plume, 'we can make Night-cloud viceroy here, to send over to
Vindhya all the productions of Camphor-isle!'

'Then the Vulture Far-sight laughed a low laugh and said--

    'Who, ere he makes a gain has spent it,
    Like the pot-breaker will repent it.'

'What was that?' asked the King. Far-sight related:--

THE STORY OF THE BRAHMAN AND THE PANS

"There was a Brahman in the city of Vána, whose name was Deva Sarman. At the equinoctial feast
of the Dussera, he obtained for his duxina-gift a dish of flour, which he took into a potter's
shed; and there lay down in the shade among the pots, staff in hand. As he thus reclined he
began to meditate, 'I can sell this meal for ten cowrie-shells, and with them I can purchase
some of these pots and sell them at an advance. With all that money I shall invest in betel-nuts
and body-cloths and make a new profit by their sale; and so go on trafficking till I get a
lakh of rupees--what's to prevent me? Then I shall marry four wives--and one at least will
be beautiful and young, and she shall be my favorite. Of course the others will be jealous;
but if they quarrel, and talk, and trouble me I will belabor them like this--and this'--and
therewith he flourished his staff to such a purpose as to smash his meal-dish and break several
of the potter's jars. The potter, rushing out, took him by the throat, and turned him off;
and so ended his speculations. I smiled, my Liege,' concluded the Vulture, 'at your precipitancy,
thinking of that story.'

'Tell me, then, my Father, what should be done,' said the King.

'Tell me first, your Majesty, what took the fortress: strength or stratagem?'

'It was a device of yours,' said the King.

'It is well,' replied the Minister, 'and my counsel now is to return before the rainy season,
while we can return; and to make peace. We have won renown and taken the enemy's stronghold;
let it suffice. I speak as a faithful adviser; and it is written--

    'Whoso setting duty highest, speaks at need unwelcome things,
    Disregarding fear and favor, such a one may succor kings.'

Oh, my Liege! war is uncertain! Nay, it may ruin victor and vanquished--

    'Sunda the strong, and giant Upasunda,
    Contending, like the lightning and the thunder,
    Slew each the other. Learn, the while you wonder.'

'Tell me that,' said the King of the Peacocks.

'The Vulture related--

THE DUEL OF THE GIANTS

"Long ago, my Liege, there were two Daityas named Sunda and Upasunda, the which with penance
and fasting worshipped that God who wears the moon for his forehead-jewel; desiring to win
his favor, and thereby the lordship of the Three Worlds. At last the God, propitiated by their
devotion, spake thus unto them:--

'I grant a boon unto ye--choose what it shall be.'

'And they, who would have asked dominion, were suddenly minded of Saraswati--who reigns over
the hearts and thoughts of men--to seek a forbidden thing.

'If,' said they, 'we have found favor, let the Divinity give us his own cherished Parvati,
the Queen of Heaven!'

'Terribly incensed was the God, but his word had passed, and the boon must be granted; and
Parvati the Divine was delivered up to them. Then those two world-breakers, sick at heart,
sin-blinded, and afire with the glorious beauty of the Queen of Life--began to dispute, saying
one to another: 'Mine is she! mine is she!' At the last they called for an umpire, and the
God himself appeared before them as a venerable Brahman.

'Master,' said they, 'tell us whose she is, for we both won her by our might.'

'Then spake that Brahman:--

    'Brahmans for their lore have honor; Kshattriyas for their bravery;
    Vaisyas for their hard-earned treasure; Sudras for humility,'

Ye are Kshattriyas--and it is yours to fight; settle, then, this question by the sword.'

'Thereupon they agreed that he spoke wisely, and drew and battled; and being of equal force,
they fell at the same moment by an exchange of blows. Good my Lord,' concluded the Minister,
'peace is a better thing than war,'

'But why not say so before?' asked Jewel-plume.

'I said it at the first,' replied the Minister. 'I knew King Silver-sides for a just King,
upon whom it was ill to wage battle. How say the Scriptures?--

    'Seven foemen of all foemen, very hard to vanquish be:
    The Truth-teller, the Just-dweller, and the man from passion free,
    Subtle, self-sustained, and counting frequent well-won victories,
    And the man of many kinsmen--keep the peace with such as these.'

The Swan-king has friends and kinsmen, my Liege:--

    'And the man with many kinsmen answers with them all attacks;
    As the bambu, in the bambus safely sheltered, scorns the axe.'

'My counsel then is that peace be concluded with him,' said the Vulture.

'All this King Silver-sides and his Minister the Goose heard attentively from the Crane.

'Go again!' said the Goose to Long-bill, 'and bring us news of how the Vulture's advice is
received.'

'Minister!' began the King, upon the departure of the Crane, 'tell me as to this peace, who
are they with whom it should not be concluded?'

'They be twenty, namely----'

'Tarry not to name them,' said the King; 'and what be the qualities of a good ally?'

'Such should be learned in Peace and War,' replied the Goose, 'in marching and pitching, and
seasonably placing an army in the field; for it is said--

    'He who sets his battle wisely, conquers the unwary foe;
    As the Owl, awaiting night-time, slew the overweening Crow.'

Counsel, my Liege, is quintuple--Commencing, providing, dividing, repelling, and completing,'

'Good!' said the King.

'Power is triple,' continued the Goose, 'being of Kings, of counsels, and of constant effort.'

'It is so!' said the King.

'And expedients, my Liege,' continued the Goose, 'are quadruple, and consist of conciliation,
of gifts, of strife-stirring, and of force of arms; for thus it is written--

    'Whoso hath the gift of giving wisely, equitably, well;
    Whoso, learning all men's secrets, unto none his own will tell;
    Whoso, ever cold and courtly, utters nothing that offends,
    Such a one may rule his fellows unto Earth's extremest ends.'

'Then King Jewel-plume would be a good ally,' observed the Swan-king.

'Doubtless!' said the Goose, 'but elated with victory, he will hardly listen to the Vulture's
counsel; we must make him do it.'

'How?' asked the King.

'We will cause our dependent, the King of Ceylon, Strong-bill the Stork, to raise an insurrection
in Jambudwipa.'

'It is well-conceived,' said the King. And forthwith a Crane, named Pied-body, was dismissed
with a secret message to that Rajah.

'In course of time the first Crane, who had been sent as a spy, came back, and made his report.
He related that the Vulture had advised his Sovereign to summon Night-cloud, the Crow, and
learn from him regarding King Silver-sides' intentions. Night-cloud attended accordingly.

'Crow!' asked King Jewel-plume, 'what sort of a Monarch is the Rajah Silver-sides?'

'Truthful, may it please you,' replied the Crow; 'and therewithal noble as Yudisthira himself.'

'And his Minister, the Goose?'

'Is a Minister unrivalled, my Liege,' said the Crow-king.

'But how then didst thou so easily deceive them?'

'Ah! your Majesty,' said the Crow, 'there was little credit in that. Is it not said?--

    'Cheating them that truly trust you, 'tis a clumsy villainy!
    Any knave may slay the child who climbs and slumbers on his knee.'

Besides, the Minister detected me immediately. It was the King whose innate goodness forbade
him to suspect evil in another:--

    'Believe a knave, thyself scorning a lie,
    And rue it, like the Brahman, by and by.'

'What Brahman was that?' asked the King. Night-cloud replied:--

THE STORY OF THE BRAHMAN AND THE GOAT

"A Brahman that lived in the forest of Gautama, your Majesty. He had purveyed a goat to make
pooja, and was returning home with it on life shoulder when he was descried by three knaves.
'If we could but obtain that goat,' said they, 'it would be a rare trick'; and they ran on,
and seated themselves at the foot of three different trees upon the Brahman's road. Presently
he came up with the first of them, who addressed him thus: 'Master! why do you carry that dog
on your shoulder?' 'Dog!' said the Brahman, 'it is a goat for sacrifice!' With that he went
on a coss, and came to the second knave; who called out--'What doest thou with that dog, Master?'
The Brahman laid his goat upon the ground, looked it all over, took it up again upon his back,
and walked on with his mind in a whirl; for--

    'The good think evil slowly, and they pay
    A price for faith--as witness "Crop-ear" may.'

'Who was Crop-ear?' asked the King of the Peacocks.

THE STORY OF THE CAMEL, THE LION, AND HIS COURT

"A Camel, may it please you," replied Night-cloud, "who strayed away from a kafila, and wandered
into the forest. A Lion, named 'Fierce-fangs,' lived in that forest; and his three courtiers,
a Tiger, a Jackal, and a Crow, met the Camel, and conducted him to their King. His account
of himself was satisfactory, and the Lion took him into his service under the name of Crop-ear.
Now it happened that the rainy season was very severe, and the Lion became indisposed, so that
there was much difficulty in obtaining food for the Court. The courtiers resolved accordingly
to prevail on the Lion to kill the Camel; 'for what interest have we,' they said, 'in this
browser of thistles?'

'What, indeed!' observed the Tiger; 'but will the Rajah kill him after his promise of protection,
think you?'

'Being famished he will,' said the Crow. 'Know you not?--

    'Hunger hears not, cares not, spares not; no boon of the starving beg;
    When the snake is pinched with craving, verily she eats her egg.'

Accordingly they repaired to the Lion.

'Hast brought me food, fellow?' growled the Rajah.

'None, may it please you,' said the Crow.

'Must we starve, then?' asked his Majesty.

'Not unless you reject the food before you, Sire,' rejoined the Crow.

'Before me! how mean you?'

'I mean,' replied the Crow (and he whispered it in the Lion's ear), 'Crop-ear, the Camel!'

'Now!' said the Lion, and he touched the ground, and afterwards both ears, as he spoke, 'I
have given him my pledge for his safety, and how should I slay him?'

'Nay, Sire! I said not slay,' replied the Crow; 'it may be that he will offer himself for food.
To that your Majesty would not object?'

'I am parlous hungry,' muttered the Lion.

'Then the Crow went to find the Camel, and, bringing all together before the King under some
pretence or other, he thus addressed him:--

'Sire! our pains are come to nothing: we can get no food, and we behold our Lord falling away,

    'Of the Tree of State the root
    Kings are--feed what brings the fruit.'

Take me, therefore, your Majesty, and break your fast upon me."

'Good Crow,' said the Lion, 'I had liefer die than do so.'

'Will your Majesty deign to make a repast upon me?' asked the Jackal.

'On no account!' replied the Lion.

'Condescend, my Lord,' said the Tiger, 'to appease your hunger with my poor flesh.'

'Impossible!' responded the Lion.

'Thereupon Crop-ear, not to be behind in what seemed safe, made offer of his own carcase, which
was accepted before he had finished; the Tiger instantly tearing his flank open, and all the
rest at once devouring him.

'The Brahman,' continued Night-cloud, 'suspected nothing more than did the Camel; and when
the third knave had broken his jest upon him for bearing a dog, he threw it down, washed himself
clean of the contamination, and went home; while the knaves secured and cooked his goat.'

'But, Night-cloud,' asked the Rajah, 'how couldst thou abide so long among enemies, and conciliate
them?'

'It is easy to play the courtier for a purpose,' said Night-cloud--

    'Courtesy may cover malice; on their heads the woodmen bring,
    Meaning all the while to burn them, logs and fagots--oh, my King!
    And the strong and subtle river, rippling at the cedar's foot,
    While it seems to lave and kiss it, undermines the hanging root.'

Indeed, it has been said--

    'A wise man for an object's sake
    His foe upon his back will take,
    As with the Frogs once did the Snake.'

'How was that?' asked the Peacock-King. The Crow related:--

THE STORY OF THE FROGS AND THE OLD SERPENT

"In a deserted garden there once lived a Serpent, 'Slow-coil' by name; who had reached an age
when he was no longer able to obtain his own food. Lying listlessly by the edge of a pond,
he was descried by a certain Frog, and interrogated--

'Have you given up caring for food, Serpent?'

'Leave me, kindly Sir,' replied the subtle reptile; 'the griefs of a miserable wretch like
me cannot interest your lofty mind.'

'Let me at least hear them,' said the Frog, somewhat flattered.

'You must know, then, gracious Sir,' began the Serpent, 'that it is now twenty years since
here, in Brahmapoora, I bit the son of Kaundinya, a holy Brahman; of which cruel bite he died.
Seeing his boy dead, Kaundinya abandoned himself to despair, and grovelled in his distress
upon the ground. Hear what is written--

    'Weep not! Life the hired nurse is, holding us a little space;
    Death, the mother who doth take us back into our proper place.'

    'Gone, with all their gauds and glories: gone, like peasants, are the
            Kings,
    Whereunto the world is witness, whereof all her record rings.'

What, indeed, my friend, is this mortal frame, that we should set store by it?--

    'For the body, daily wasting, is not seen to waste away,
    Until wasted, as in water set a jar of unbaked clay.'

    'And day after day man goeth near and nearer to his fate,
    As step after step the victim thither where its slayers wait.'

Friends and kinsmen--they must all be surrendered! Is it not said--

    'Like as a plank of drift-wood
      Tossed on the watery main,
    Another plank encountered,
      Meets--touches--parts again;
    So tossed, and drifting ever,
      On life's unresting sea,
    Men meet, and greet, and sever,
      Parting eternally.'

Thou knowest these things, let thy wisdom chide thy sorrow, saying--

    'Halt, traveller! rest i' the shade: then up and leave it!
    Stay, Soul! take fill of love; nor losing, grieve it!'

But in sooth a wise man would better avoid love; for--

    'Each beloved object born
    Sets within the heart a thorn,
    Bleeding, when they be uptorn.'

And it is well asked--

    'When thine own house, this rotting frame, doth wither,
    Thinking another's lasting--goest thou thither?'

What will be, will be; and who knows not--

    'Meeting makes a parting sure,
    Life is nothing but death's door.'

For truly--

    'As the downward-running rivers never turn and never stay,
    So the days and nights stream deathward, bearing human lives away.'

And though it be objected that--

    'Bethinking him of darkness grim, and death's unshunned pain,
    A man strong-souled relaxes hold, like leather soaked in rain.'

Yet is this none the less assured, that--

    'From the day, the hour, the minute,
      Each life quickens in the womb;
    Thence its march, no falter in it,
      Goes straight forward to the tomb.'

Form, good friend, a true idea of mundane matters; and bethink thee that regret is after all
but an illusion, an ignorance--

    'An 'twere not so, would sorrow cease with years?
    Wisdom sees aright what want of knowledge fears.'

'Kaundinya listened to all this with the air of a dreamer. Then rising up he said, 'Enough!
the house is hell to me--I will betake me to the forest.'

'Will that stead you?' asked Kapila; 'nay--

    'Seek not the wild, sad heart! thy passions haunt it;
    Play hermit in thine house with heart undaunted;
    A governed heart, thinking no thought but good,
    Makes crowded houses holy solitude.'

To be master of one's self--to eat only to prolong life--to yield to love no more than may
suffice to perpetuate a family--and never to speak but in the cause of truth, this,' said Kapila,
'is armor against grief. What wouldst thou with a hermit's life--prayer and purification from
sorrow and sin in holy streams? Hear this!--

    'Away with those that preach to us the washing off of sin--
    Thine own self is the stream for thee to make ablutions in:
    In self-restraint it rises pure--flows clear in tide of truth,
    By widening banks of wisdom, in waves of peace and ruth.
    Bathe there, thou son of Pandu! with reverence and rite,
    For never yet was water wet could wash the spirit white.'

Resign thyself to loss. Pain exists absolutely. Ease, what is it but a minute's alleviation?'

'It is nothing else,' said Kaundinya: 'I will resign myself!' Thereupon,' the Serpent continued,
'he cursed me with the curse that I should be a carrier of frogs, and so retired--and here
remain I to do according to the Brahman's malediction.'

'The Frog, hearing all this, went and reported it to Web-foot the Frog-King, who shortly came
himself for an excursion on the Serpent. He was carried delightfully, and constantly employed
the conveyance. But one day observing the Serpent to be sluggish, he asked the reason.

'May it please you,' explained the Serpent, 'your slave has nothing to eat.'

'Eat a few of my frogs,' said the King. 'I give you leave.'

'I thank your Majesty!' answered the Serpent, and forthwith he began to eat the frogs, until
the pond becoming clear, he finished with their monarch himself. 'I also,' said Night-cloud,
'stooped to conquer, but King Silver-sides is a good King, and I would your Majesty were at
peace with him.'

'Peace!' cried King Jewel-plume, 'shall I make peace with my vassal! I have vanquished him--let
him serve me!'

"At this moment the Parrot came in. 'Sire!' said he, breathlessly,' the Stork Strong-bill,
Rajah of Ceylon, has raised the standard of revolt in Jambudwipa, and claims the country.'

'What! what!' cried the King in a fury.

'Excellent good, Goose!' muttered the Minister. 'This is thy work!'

'Bid him but await me!' exclaimed the King, 'and I will tear him up like a tree!'

'Ah, Sire,' said the Minister--

    'Thunder for nothing, like December's cloud,
    Passes unmarked: strike hard, but speak not loud.'

We cannot march without making peace first; our rear will be attacked.'

'Must it be so?' asked the King.

'My Liege, it must,' replied the Vulture.

'Make a peace then,' said the King, 'and make an end.'

'It is well,' observed the Minister, and set out for the Court of the King Silver-sides. While
he was yet coming, the Crane announced his approach.

'Ah!' said the Swan-King, 'this will be another designing spy from the enemy.'

'Misdoubt him not!' answered the Goose, smiling, 'it is the Vulture Far-sight, a spirit beyond
suspicion. Would your Majesty be as the Swan that took the stars reflected in the pool for
lily-buds, and being deceived, would eat no lily-shoots by day, thinking them stars?'

'Not so! but treachery breeds mistrust,' replied the Rajah; is it not written--

    'Minds deceived by evil natures, from the good their faith withhold;
    When hot conjee once has burned them, children blow upon the cold.'

'It is so written, my Liege,' said the Minister. 'But this one may be trusted. Let him be received
with compliments and a gift.'

'Accordingly the Vulture was conducted, with the most profound respect, from the fort to the
King's audience-hall, where a throne was placed for him.

'Minister,' said the Goose, 'consider us and ours at thy disposal.'

'So consider us,' assented the Swan-King.

'I thank you,' said Far-sight; 'but--

    'With a gift the miser meet;
    Proud men by obeisance greet;
    Women's silly fancies soothe;
    Give wise men their due--the truth.'

'I am come to conclude a peace, not to claim your kingdom. By what mode shall we conclude it?'

'How many modes be there?' asked King Silver-sides.

'Sixteen,' replied the Vulture.

'Are the alliances numbered therein?' asked the King.

'No! these be four,' answered the Vulture, 'namely--of mutual help--of friendship--of blood--and
of sacrifice.'

'You are a great diplomatist!' said the King. 'Advise us which to choose!'

'There is no Peace like the Golden "Sangata," which is made between good men, based on friendly
feeling, and preceded by the Oath of Truth,' replied the Vulture.

'Let us make that Peace!' said the Goose. Far-sight accordingly, with fresh presents of robes
and jewels, accompanied the Goose to the camp of the Peacock-King. The Rajah, Jewel-plume,
gave the Goose a gracious audience, accepted his terms of Peace, and sent him back to the Swan-King,
loaded with gifts and kind speeches. The revolt in Jambudwipa was suppressed, and the Peacock-King
retired to his own kingdom.

"And now," said Vishnu-Sarman, "I have told your Royal Highnesses all. Is there anything remaining
to be told?"

"Reverend Sir!" replied the Princes, "there is nothing. Thanks to you, we have heard and comprehended
the perfect cycle of kingly duty, and are content."

"There remains but this, then," said their Preceptor:--

      'Peace and Plenty, all fair things,
      Grace the realm where ye reign Kings;
      Grief and loss come not anigh you,
      Glory guide and magnify you;
      Wisdom keep your statesmen still
      Clinging fast, in good or ill,
      Clinging, like a bride new-wed,
      Unto lips, and breast, and head:
    And day by day, that these fair things befall,
    The Lady Lukshmi give her grace to all.'

[21] A young Brahman, being invested with the sacred thread, and having concluded his studies,
becomes of the second order: a householder.

NALA AND DAMAYANTI

[Selected from the "Mahâbhârata" Translation by Sir Edwin Arnold]

INTRODUCTION

The "Mahâbhârata" is the oldest epic in Sanscrit literature, and is sevenfold greater in bulk
than the "Iliad" and "Odyssey" taken together. This remarkable poem contains almost all the
history of ancient India, so far as it can be recovered, together with inexhaustible details
of its political, social, and religious life--in fact, the antique Hindoo world stands epitomized
in it. The Old Testament is not more interwoven with the Jewish race, nor the New Testament
with the civilization of Christendom, nor even the Koran with the records and destinies of
Islam, than is this great Sanscrit poem with the unchanging and teeming population of Hindostan.
The stories, songs, and ballads, the genealogies, the nursery tales and religious discourses,
the art, the learning, the philosophy, the creeds, the modes of thought, the very phrases and
daily ideas of the Hindoo people are taken from this poem. Their children are named after its
heroes; so are their cities, streets, and even cattle. It is the spiritual life of the Hindoo
people. It is personified, worshipped, and cited as being something divine. To read, or even
to listen, is to the devout Hindoo sufficiently meritorious to bring prosperity to the fireside
in this world, and happiness in the world to come.

The western world has as yet only received the "Mahâbhârata" in fragments--mere specimens,
bearing to those vast treasures of Sanscrit literature such small proportion as cabinet samples
of ore have to the riches of a mine. Such knowledge as we have of the great Indian epics is
largely due to Sir William Jones, and the host of translators who followed him.

In its present shape the "Mahâbhârata" contains some two hundred thousand verses. The style
is forcible, often terse and nervous: the action is well sustained, and the whole effect produced
is that of a poem written in commemoration of actual conflict between members of rival clans
who lived somewhere southeast of the Punjab. In portrayal of character the Hindoo poem somewhat
resembles its Grecian counterpart--the "Iliad"; the noble devotion and chivalric character
of its chief hero, Arjuna, reminds us of Hector--and the wily, sinful Duryodhana, is a second
Ulysses. The "Mahâbhârata" was probably begun in the third or fourth century B.C., and completed
soon after the beginning of the Christian era.

The "Bhârata" war is a war between rival cousins of the house of Bhârata, a race of heroes
mentioned in the Rig-veda collection. Duryodhana deprives his cousin Yudhisthira of his throne
by inducing him to squander his fortune, kingdom, family, and self--and then banishes Yudhisthira
and the latter's four brothers for twelve years. The gambling was conducted in an unfair manner,
and the cousins feel that their banishment was the result of treachery, although pretended
to be mercy in lieu of death. When the twelve years are over they collect armies of sympathizers,
and on the Sacred Plain of the Kurus (the Holy Land of India) the great war is fought out.
The good prevails, Duryodhana is slain, and Yudhisthira recovers his kingdom. This story is
told so graphically that the "Mahâbhârata" still has the charm that comes from plot and action,
as well as that of poetic beauty.

A concluding passage of this great poem says: "The reading of this 'Mahâbhârata' destroys all
sin and produces virtue, so much so that the pronunciation of a single shloka is sufficient
to wipe away much guilt. It has bound human beings in a chain, of which one end is life and
the other death. If a man reads the 'Mahâbhârata' and has faith in its doctrines, he is free
from all sin and ascends to heaven after his death."

The present selection is the episode of Nala and Damayanti. It is one of the most charming
of the "Mahâbhârata" stories, and its Oriental flavor and delicacy have been well preserved
by the translator, Sir Edwin Arnold.

L.F.C.

THE MAHÂBHÂRATA

NALA AND DAMAYANTI

Part I

    A prince there was, named Nala, Virasen's noble breed,
    Goodly to see, and virtuous; a tamer of the steed;
    As Indra 'midst the gods, so he of kings was kingliest one,
    Sovereign of men, and splendid as the golden, glittering sun;
    Pure, knowing scripture, gallant; ruling nobly Nishadh's lands;
    Dice-loving, but a proud, true chief of her embattled bands;
    By lovely ladies lauded; free, trained in self-control;
    A shield and bow; a Manu on earth; a royal soul!
    And in Vidarbha's city the Raja Bhima dwelled;
    Save offspring, from his perfect bliss no blessing was withheld;
    For offspring, many a pious rite full patiently he wrought,
    Till Damana the Brahman unto his house was brought.
    Him Bhima, ever reverent, did courteously entreat,
    Within the Queen's pavilion led him, to rest and eat;
    Whereby that sage, grown grateful, gave her--for joy of joys--
    A girl, the gem of girlhood, and three brave lusty boys--
    Damana, Dama, Dânta, their names:--Damayanti she;
    No daughter more delightful, no sons could goodlier be.
    Stately and bright and beautiful did Damayanti grow;
    No land there was which did not the Slender-waisted know;
    A hundred slaves her fair form decked with robe and ornament--
    Like Śachi's self to serve her a hundred virgins bent;
    And 'midst them Bhima's daughter, in peerless glory dight,
    Gleamed as the lightning glitters against the murk of night;
    Having the eyes of Lakshmi, long-lidded, black, and bright--
    Nay--never Gods, nor Yakshas, nor mortal men among
    Was one so rare and radiant e'er seen, or sued, or sung
    As she, the heart-consuming, in heaven itself desired.
    And Nala, too, of princes the Tiger-Prince, admired
    Like Kama was; in beauty an embodied lord of love:
    And ofttimes Nala praised they all other chiefs above
    In Damayanti's hearing; and oftentimes to him,
    With worship and with wonder, her beauty they would limn;
    So that, unmet, unknowing, unseen, in each for each
    A tender thought of longing grew up from seed of speech;
    And love (thou son of Kunti!) those gentle hearts did reach.
      Thus Nala--hardly bearing in his heart
    Such longing--wandered in his palace-woods,
    And marked some water-birds, with painted plumes,
    Disporting. One, by stealthy steps, he seized;
    But the sky-traveller spake to Nala this:--
    "Kill me not, Prince, and I will serve thee well.
    For I, in Damayanti's ear, will say
    Such good of Nishadh's lord, that nevermore
    Shall thought of man possess her, save of thee."
      Thereat the Prince gladly gave liberty
    To his soft prisoner, and all the swans
    Flew, clanging, to Vidarbha--a bright flock--
    Straight to Vidarbha, where the Princess walked;
    And there, beneath her eyes, those winged ones
    Lighted. She saw them sail to earth, and marked--
    Sitting amid her maids--their graceful forms;
    While those for wantonness 'gan chase the swans,
    Which fluttered this and that way through the grove:
    Each girl with tripping feet her bird pursued,
    And Damayanti, laughing, followed hers;
    Till--at the point to grasp--the flying prey
    Deftly eluding touch, spake as men speak,
    Addressing Bhima's daughter:--
                                  "Lady dear!
    Loveliest Damayanti! Nala dwells
    In near Nishadha: oh, a noble Prince,
    Not to be matched of men; an Aświn he,
    For goodliness. Incomparable maid!
    Wert thou but wife to that surpassing chief,
    Rich would the fruit grow from such lordly birth,
    Such peerless beauty. Slender-waisted one,
    Gods, men, and Gandharvas have we beheld,
    But never none among them like to him.
    As thou art pearl of princesses, so he
    Is crown of princes; happy would it fall,
    One such perfection should another wed."
      And when she heard that bird (O King of men!)
    The Princess answered: "Go, dear swan, and tell
    This same to Nala;" and the egg-born said,
    "I go"--and flew; and told the Prince of all.
      But Damayanti, having heard the bird,
    Lived fancy-free no more; by Nala's side
    Her soul dwelt, while she sat at home distraught,
    Mournful and wan, sighing the hours away,
    With eyes upcast, and passion-laden looks;
    So that, eftsoons, her limbs failed, and her mind--
    With love o'erweighted--found no rest in sleep,
    No grace in company, no joy at feasts.
    Nor night nor day brought peace; always she heaved
    Sigh upon sigh, till all her maidens knew--
    By glance and mien and moan--how changed she was,
    Her own sweet self no more. Then to the King
    They told how Damayanti loved the Prince.
    Which thing when Bhima from her maidens heard,
    Deep pondering for his child what should be done,
    And why the Princess was beside herself,
    That lord of lands perceived his daughter grown,
    And knew that for her high Swayamvara
    The time was come.
                       So, to the Rajas all
    The King sent word: "Ye Lords of Earth, attend
    Of Damayanti the Swayamvara."
    And when these learned of her Swayamvara,
    Obeying Bhima, to his court they thronged--
    Elephants, horses, cars--over the land
    In full files wending, bearing flags and wreaths
    Of countless hues, with gallant companies
    Of fighting men. And those high-hearted chiefs
    The strong-armed King welcomed with worship fair,
    As fitted each, and led them to their seats.
      Now at that hour there passed towards Indra's heaven,
    Thither from earth ascending, those twain saints--
    The wise, the pure, the mighty-minded ones,
    The self-restrained--Narad and Parvata.
    The mansion of the Sovereign of the Gods
    In honor entered they; and he, the Lord
    Of Clouds, dread Indra, softly them salutes,
    Inquiring of their weal, and of the world
    Wherethrough their name was famous, how it fares.
      Then Narad said: "Well is it, Lord of Gods,
    With us, and with our world; and well with those
    Who rule the peoples, O thou King in Heaven!"
      But He that slew the Demons spake again:--
    "The princes of the earth, just-minded, brave,
    Those who, in battle fearing not to fall,
    See death on the descending blade, and charge
    Full front against it, turning not their face--
    Theirs is this realm eternal, as to me
    The cow of plenty, Kâmadhuk, belongs.
    Where be my Kshatriya warriors? Wherefore now
    See I none coming of those slaughtered lords,
    Chiefs of mankind, our always honored guests?"
      And unto Indra Narad gave reply:--
    "King of the Air! no wars are waged below;
    None fall in fight, to enter here. The Lord
    Of high Vidarbha hath a daughter, famed
    For loveliness beyond all earthly maids,
    The Princess Damayanti, far-renowned.
    Of her, dread Sakra! the Swayamvara
    Shall soon befall, and thither now repair
    The kings and princes of all lands, to woo--
    Each for himself--this pearl of womanhood.
    For oh, thou Slayer of the Demons, all
    Desire the maid."
                     Drew round, while Narad spake,
    The Masters, th'Immortals, pressing in
    With Agni and the Greatest, near the throne,
    To listen to the speech of Narada;
    Whom having heard, all cried delightedly,
    "We, too, will go." Thereupon those high gods,
    With chariots, and with heavenly retinues,
    Sped to Vidarbha, where the kings were met.
    And Nala, knowing of this kingly tryst,
    Went thither joyous, heart-full with the thought
    Of Damayanti.
                  Thus it chanced the gods
    Beheld the Prince wending along his road,
    Goodly of mien, as is the Lord of Love.
    The world's Protectors saw him, like a sun
    For splendor; and, in very wonder, paused
    Some time irresolute, so fair he was;
    Then in mid-sky their golden chariots stayed,
    And through the clouds descending called to him:--
    "Abo! Nala of Nishadha! Noblest Prince,
    Be herald for us; bear our message now."
      "Yea!" Nala made reply, "this will I do"--
    And then--palm unto palm in reverence pressed--
    Asked: "Shining Ones, who are ye? Unto whom,
    And what words bearing, will ye that I go?
    Deign to instruct me what it is ye bid."
    Thus the Prince spake, and Indra answered him:--
    "Thou seest th'immortal gods. Indra am I,
    And this is Agni, and the other here,
    Varuna, Lord of Waters; and beyond,
    Yama, the King of Death, who parteth souls
    From mortal frames. To Damayanti go;
    Tell our approach. Say this: 'The world's dread lords,
    Wishful to see thee, come; desiring thee--
    Indra, Varuna, Agni, Yama, all.
    Choose of these powers to which thou wilt be given.'"
    But Nala, hearing that, joined palms again,
    And cried: "Ah, send me not, with one accord
    For this, most mighty Gods! How should a man
    Sue for another, being suitor too?
    How bear such errand? Have compassion, Gods!"
      Then spake they: "Yet thou saidst, 'This shall I do,'
    Nishadha's Prince! and wilt thou do it not,
    Forswearing faith? Nay, but depart, and soon!"
      So bid, but lingering yet again, he said:--
    "Well guarded are the gates; how shall I find
    Speech with her?"
                      "Thou shalt find," Indra replied.
    And, lo! upon that word Nala was brought
    To Damayanti's chamber. There he saw
    Vidarbha's glory, sitting 'mid her maids,
    In majesty and grace surpassing all;
    So exquisite, so delicate of form,
    Waist so fine-turned, such limbs, such lighted eyes,
    The moon hath meaner radiance than she.
    Love at the sight of that soft smiling face
    Sprang to full passion, while he stood and gazed.
    Yet, faith and duty urging, he restrained
    His beating heart; but when those beauteous maids
    Spied Nala, from their cushions they uprose,
    Startled to see a man, yet startled more
    Because he showed so heavenly bright and fair.
    In wondering pleasure each saluted him,
    Uttering no sound, but murmuring to themselves:--
    "Aho! the grace of him: aho! the brilliance;
    Aho! what glorious strength lives in his limbs!
    What is he? Is he God, Gandharva, Yaksha?"
    But this unspoken, for they dared not breathe
    One syllable, all standing shyly there
    To see him, and to see his youth so sweet.
    Yet, softly glancing back to his soft glance,
    The Princess, presently, with fluttering breath,
    Accosted Nala, saying: "Fairest Prince,
    Who by thy faultless form hath filled my heart
    With sudden joy, coming as come the gods,
    Unstayed, I crave to know thee, who thou art;
    How didst thou enter? how wert thou unseen?
    Our palace is close-guarded, and the King
    Hath issued mandates stern."
                                Tenderly spake
    The Prince, replying to those tender words:--
    "Most lovely! I am Nala. I am come
    A herald of the gods unto thee here.
    The gods desire thee, the immortal Four--
    Indra, Varuna, Yama, Agni. Choose,
    O Brightest! one from these to be thy lord.
    By their help is it I have entered in
    Unseen; none could behold me at thy gates,
    Nor stay me, passing; and to speak their will
    They sent me, fairest one and best. Do thou,
    Knowing the message, judge as seemeth well."
      She bowed her head, hearing the great gods named,
    And then, divinely smiling, said to him:--
    "Pledge thyself faithfully to me, and I
    Will seek, O Raja, only how to pay
    That debt with all I am, with all I have;
    For I and mine are thine--in full trust thine.
    Make me that promise, Prince. Thy gentle name--
    Sung by the swan--first set my thoughts afire;
    And for thy sake--only for thee--sweet Lord,
    The kings were summoned hither. If, alas!
    Fair Prince, thou dost reject my sudden love,
    So proffered, then must poison, flame, or flood,
    Or knitted cord, be my sad remedy."
      So spake Vidarbha's Pride; and Nala said:--
    "With gods so waiting--with the world's dread lords
    Hastening to woo, canst thou desire a man?
    Bethink! I, unto these, that make and mar,
    These all-wise ones, almighty, am like dust
    Under their feet: lift thy heart to the height
    Of what I bring. If mortal man offend
    The most high gods, death is what springs of it.
    Spare me to live, thou faultless lady! Choose
    Which of these excellent great gods thou wilt;
    Wear the unstained robes! bear on thy brows
    The wreaths which never fade, of heavenly blooms!
    Be, as thou mayest, a goddess, and enjoy
    Godlike delights! Him who enfolds the earth,
    Creating and consuming, Brightest Power,
    Hutâsa, Eater of the Sacrifice,
    What woman would not take? Or him whose rod
    Herds all the generations forward still
    On virtue's path, Red Yama, King of Death,
    What woman would affront? Or him, the all-good,
    All-wise destroyer of the Demons, first
    In heaven, Mahendra--who of womankind
    Is there that would not wed? Or, if thy mind
    Incline, doubt not to choose Varuna; he
    Is of these world-protectors. From a heart
    Full friendly cometh what I tell thee now."
      Unto Nishadha's Prince the maid replied--
    Tears of distress dimming her lustrous eyes---
    "Humbly I reverence these mighty gods;
    But thee I choose, and thee I take for lord;
    And this I vow!"
                     With folded palms she stood,
    And trembling lips, while his faint answer fell:--
    "Sent on such embassy, how shall I dare
    Speak, sweetest Princess, for myself to thee?
    Bound by my promise for the gods to sue,
    How can I be a suitor for myself?
    Silence is here my duty; afterwards,
    If I shall come, in mine own name I'll come,
    Mine own cause pleading. Ah, might that so be!"
      Checking her tears, Damayanti sadly smiled,
    And said full soft: "One way of hope I see,
    A blameless way, O Lord of men! wherefrom
    No fault shall rise, nor any danger fall.
    Thou also, Prince, with Indra and these gods,
    Must enter in where my Swayamvara
    Is held; then I, in presence of those gods,
    Will choose thee, dearest, for my lord; and so
    Blame shall not light on thee,"
                                    With which sweet words
    Soft in his ears, Nishadha straight returned
    There where the gods were gathered, waiting him;
    Whom the world's masters, on his way, perceived,
    And, spying, questioned, asking for his news:--
    "Saw'st thou her, Prince? Didst see the sweet-lipped one?
    What spake she of us? Tell us true; tell all!"
      Quoth Nala: "By your worshipful behest
    Sent to her house, the great gates entered I,
    Though the gray porters watched; but none might spy
    My entering, by your power, O radiant Ones,
    Saving the Raja's daughter; her I saw
    Amid her maidens, and by them was seen.
    On me with much amazement they did gaze
    Whilst I your high Divinities extolled.
    But she that hath the lovely face, with mind
    Set upon me, hath chosen me, ye Gods.
    For thus she spake, my Princess: 'Let them come,
    And come thou, like a lordly tiger, too,
    Unto the place of my Swayamvara;
    There will I choose thee in their presence, Prince,
    To be my lord; and so there will not fall
    Blame, thou strong-armed! to thee,' This she did say
    Even as I tell it; and what shall be next,
    To will is yours, O ye immortal Ones!"
      Soon, when the moon was good, and day and hour
    Were found propitious, Bhima, King of men,
    Summoned the chiefs to the Swayamvara;
    Upon which message all those eager lords
    For love of Damayanti hastened there.
    Glorious with gilded pillars was the court,
    Whereto a gate-house opened, and thereby
    Into the square, like lions from the hills,
    Paced the proud guests; and there their seats they took,
    Each in his rank, the masters of the lands,
    With crowns of fragrant blossoms garlanded,
    And polished jewels swinging in their ears.
    Of some the thews, knitted and rough, stood forth
    Like iron maces; some had slender limbs,
    Sleek and fine-turned like the five-headed snake;
    Lords with long-flowing hair; glittering lords;
    High-nosed, and eagle-eyed, and heavy-browed;
    The faces of those kings shone in a ring
    As shine at night the stars; and that great square
    As thronged with Rajas was as Naga-land
    Is full of serpents; thick with warlike chiefs
    As mountain-caves with panthers. Unto these
    Entered, in matchless majesty of form,
    The Princess Damayanti. As she came,
    The glory of her ravished eyes and hearts,
    So that the gaze of all those haughty kings,
    Fastening upon her loveliness, grew fixed--
    Not moving save with her--step after step
    Onward and always following the maid.
      But while the styles and dignities of all
    Were cried aloud (O son of Bhârat!), lo!
    The Princess marked five of that throng alike
    In form and garb and visage. There they stood,
    Each from the next undifferenced, but each
    Nala's own self;--yet which might Nala be
    In nowise could that doubting maid descry.
    Who took her eye seemed Nala while she gazed,
    Until she looked upon his like; and so
    Pondered the lovely lady, sore-perplexed,
    Thinking, "How shall I tell which be the gods,
    And which is noble Nala?" Deep-distressed
    And meditative waxed she, musing hard
    What those signs were, delivered us of old,
    Whereby gods may be known: "Of all those signs
    Taught by our elders, lo! I see not one
    Where stand yon five." So murmured she, and turned
    Over and over every mark she knew.
    At last, resolved to make the gods themselves
    Her help at need, with reverent air and voice
    Humbly saluted she those heavenly ones,
    And with joined palms and trembling accents spake:--
    "As, when I heard the swans, I chose my Prince,
    By that sincerity I call ye, Gods,
    To show my Love to me and make me know!
    As in my heart and soul and speech I stand
    True to my choice, by that sincerity
    I call the all-knowing gods to make me know!
    As the high gods created Nishadha's chief
    To be my lord, by their sincerity
    I bid them show themselves, and make me know!
    As my vow, sealed to him, must be maintained
    For his name, and for mine, I call the gods
    By such sincerity to make me know!
    Let them appear, the masters of the world--
    The high gods--each one in his proper shape,
    That I may see Nishadha's chief, my choice,
    Whom minstrels praise, and Damayanti loves."
      Hearing that earnest speech--so passion-fraught,
    So full of truth, of strong resolve, of love,
    Of singleness of soul and constancy--
    Even as she spake, the gods disclosed themselves.
    By well-seen signs the effulgent Ones she knew.
    Shadowless stood they, with unwinking eyes,
    And skins which never moist with sweat; their feet
    Light-gliding o'er the ground, not touching it;
    The unfading blossoms on their brows not soiled
    By earthly dust, but ever fair and fresh.
    Whilst, by their side, garbed so and visaged so,
    But doubled by his shadow, stained with dust,
    The flower-cups wiltering in his wreath, his skin
    Pearly with sweat, his feet upon the earth,
    And eyes a-wink, stood Nala. One by one
    Glanced she on those divinities, then bent
    Her gaze upon the Prince, and, joyous, said:--
    "I know thee, and I name my rightful lord,
    Taking Nishadha's chief." Therewith she drew
    Modestly nigh, and held him by the cloth,
    With large eyes beaming love, and round his neck
    Hung the bright chaplet, love's delicious crown;
    So choosing him--him only--whom she named
    Before the face of all to be her lord.
      Oh, then brake forth from all those suitors proud,
    "Ha!" and "Aho!" But from the gods and saints,
    "Sadhu! well done! well done!" And all admired
    The happy Prince, praising the grace of him;
    While Virasena's son, delightedly,
    Spake to the slender-waisted these fond words:--
    "Fair Princess! since, before all gods and men,
    Thou makest me thy choice, right glad am I
    Of this thy mind, and true lord will I be.
    For so long, loveliest, as my breath endures,
    Thine am I! Thus I plight my troth to thee."
    So, with joined palms, unto that beauteous maid
    His gentle faith he pledged, rejoicing her;
    And, hand in hand, radiant with mutual love,
    Before great Agni and the gods they passed,
    The world's protectors worshipping.
                                       Then those,
    The lords of life, the powerful Ones, bestowed--
    Being well-pleased--on Nala, chosen so,
    Eight noble boons. The boon which Indra gave
    Was grace, at times of sacrifice, to see
    The visible god approach, with step divine;
    And Agni's boon was this, that he would come
    Whenever Nala called--for everywhere
    Hutâsa shineth, and all worlds are his;
    Yama gave skill in cookery, steadfastness
    In virtue; and Varuna, King of Floods,
    Bade all the waters ripple at his call.
    These boons the high gods doubled by the gift
    Of bright wreaths wove with magic blooms of heaven;
    And those bestowed, ascended to their seats.
    Also with wonder and with joy returned
    The Rajas and the Maharajas all,
    Full of the marriage-feast; for Bhima made,
    In pride and pleasure, stately nuptials;
    So Damayanti and the Prince were wed.
      Then, having tarried as is wont, that lord--
    Nishadha's chief--took the King's leave, and went
    Unto his city, bringing home with him
    His jewel of all womanhood, with whom
    Blissful he lived, as lives by Śachi's side
    The slayer of the Demons. Like a sun
    Shone Nala on his throne, ruling his folk
    In strength and virtue, guardian of his state.
    Also the Aśwamedha Rite he made
    Greatest of rites, the Offering of the Horse,
    As did Yayâti; and all other acts
    Of worship; and to sages gave rich gifts.
      Many dear days of much delicious love,
    In pleasant gardens and in shadowy groves,
    Passed they together, sojourning like gods.
    And Damayanti bore unto her lord
    A boy named Indrasen, and next, a girl
    Named Indrasena. So in happiness
    The good Prince governed, seeing all his lands
    Wealthy and well, in piety and peace.
      Now at the choosing of Nishadha's chief
    By Bhima's daughter, when those lords of life--
    The effulgent gods--departed, Dwapara
    They saw with Kali, coming. Indra said--
    The Demon-slayer--spying these approach:--
    "Whither, with Dwapara, goest thou to-day,
    O Kali?" And the sombre Shade replied:--
    "To Damayanti's high Swayamvara
    I go, to make her mine, since she hath passed
    Into my heart." But Indra, laughing, said:--
    "Ended is that Swayamvara; for she
    Hath taken Raja Nala for her lord,
    Before us all," But Kali, hearing this,
    Breaks into wrath--while he stood worshipping
    That band divine--and furiously cries:--
    "If she hath set a man above the gods,
    To wed with him, for such sin let there fall
    Doom, rightful, swift, and terrible, on her!"
    "Nay," answered unto him those heavenly ones,
    "But Damayanti chose with our good-will;
    And what maid but would choose so fair a prince,
    Seeing he hath all qualities, and knows
    Virtue, and rightly practises the vows,
    And reads the four great Vedas, and, what's next,
    The Holy Stories, whilst, perpetually,
    The gods are honored in his house with gifts?
    No hurt he does, kind to all living things;
    True of word is he, faithful, liberal, just;
    Steadfast and patient, temperate and pure;
    A king of men is Nala, like the gods.
    He that would curse a prince of such a mould,
    Thou foolish Kali, lays upon himself
    A sin to crush himself; the curse comes back
    And sinks him in the bottomless vast gulf
    Of Narak."
              Thus the gods to Kali spake,
    And mounted heavenward; whereupon that Shade,
    Frowning, to Dwapara burst forth: "My rage
    Beareth no curb. Henceforth in Nala I
    Will dwell; his kingdom I will make to fall;
    His bliss with Damayanti I will mar;
    And thou within the dice shalt enter straight,
    And help me, Dwapara! to drag him down,"
      Into which compact entering, those repaired--
    Kali and Dwapara--to Nala's house,
    And haunted in Nishadha, where he ruled,
    Seeking occasion 'gainst the blameless Prince.
    Long watched they; twelve years rolled ere Kali saw
    The fateful fault arrive; Nishadha's Lord,
    Easing himself, and sprinkling hands and lips
    With purifying water, passed to prayer,
    His feet unwashed, offending. Kali straight
    Possessed the heedless Raja, entering him.
      That hour there sat with Nala, Pushkara
    His brother; and the evil spirit hissed
    Into the ear of Pushkara: "Ehi!
    Arise, and challenge Nala at the dice.
    Throw with the Prince! it may be thou shalt win
    (Luck helping thee, and I) Nishadha's throne,
    Town, treasures, palace--thou mayest gain them all."
    And Pushkara, hearing Kali's evil voice,
    Made near to Nala, with the dice in hand
    (A great piece for the "Bull," and little ones
    For "Cows," and Kali hiding in the Bull).
    So Pushkara came to Nala's side and said:--
    "Play with me, brother, at the 'Cows and Bull';"
    And, being put off, cried mockingly, "Nay, play!"
    Shaming the Prince, whose spirit chafed to leave
    A gage unfaced; but when Vidarbha's gem,
    The Princess, heard that challenge, Nala rose:
    "Yea, Pushkara, I will play!" fiercely he said;
    And to the game addressed.
                              His gems he lost,
    Armlets and belt and necklet; next the gold
    Of the palace and its vessels; then the cars
    Yoked with swift steeds; and last, the royal robes:
    For, cast by cast, the dice against him fell,
    Bewitched by Kali; and, cast after cast,
    The passion of the dice kept hold on him,
    Until not one of all his faithfullest
    Could stay the madman's hand and gamester's heart
    Of who was named "Subduer of his Foes."
      The townsmen gathered with the ministers:
    Into that palace gate they thronged (my King!)
    To see their lord, if so they might abate
    This sickness of his soul. The charioteer,
    Forth standing from their midst, low worshipping,
    Spake thus to Damayanti: "Great Princess,
    Before thy door all the grieved city sits.
    Say to our lord for us, 'Thy folk are here;
    They mourn that evil fortunes hold their liege,
    Who was so high and just,'" Then she, deject,
    Passed in, and to Nishadha's ruler said,
    Her soft voice broken, and her bright eyes dimmed:--
    "Raja, the people of thy town are here;
    Before our gates they gather, citizens
    And counsellors, desiring speech with thee;
    In lealty they come. Wilt thou be pleased
    We open to them? Wilt thou?" So she asked
    Again and yet again; but not one word
    To that sad lady with the lovely brows
    Did Nala answer, wholly swallowed up
    Of Kali and the gaming; so that those--
    The citizens and counsellors--cried out,
    "Our lord is changed! He is not Nala now!"
    And home returned, ashamed and sorrowful;
    Whilst ceaselessly endured that foolish play
    Moon after moon--the Prince the loser still.
      Then Damayanti, seeing so estranged
    Her lord, the praised in song, the chief of men,
    Watching, all self-possessed, his fantasy,
    And how the gaming held him; sad, and 'feared,
    The heavy fortunes pondering of her Prince;
    Hating the fault, but to the offender kind;
    And fearing Nala should be stripped of all,
    This thing devised: Vrihatsenâ she called--
    Her foster-nurse and faithful ministrant--
    True, skilful at all service, soft of speech,
    Kind-hearted; and she said, "Vrihatsenâ,
    Go call the ministers to council now,
    As though 'twere Nala bade; and make them count
    What store is gone of treasure, what abides."
    So went Vrihatsenâ, and summoned those;
    And when they knew all things, as from the Prince,
    "Truly we, too, shall perish!" cried they then;
    And all to Nala went, and all the town,
    A second time assembling, thronged his gates:--
    Which Bhima's daughter told; but not one word
    Answered the Prince. And when she saw her lord
    Put by her plea, utterly slighting it,
    Back to her chamber, full of shame, she goes,
    And there still hears the dice are falling ill;
    Still hears of Nala daily losing more;
    So that again unto her nurse she spake:--
    "Send to Varshneya, good Vrihatsenâ;
    Say to the charioteer--in Nala's name--
    'A great thing is to do. Come thou!'" And this--
    So soon as Damayanti uttered it--
    Vrihatsenâ, by faithful servants, told
    Unto the son of Vrishni, who, being come
    In fitting time and place, heard the sweet Queen
    In mournful music speak these wistful words:--
    "Thou knowest how thy Raja trusted thee;
    Now he hath fall'n on evil; succor him!
    The more that Pushkara conquers in the play,
    The wilder rage of gaming takes thy lord--
    The more for Pushkara the dice light well,
    More contrary they happen to the Prince:
    Nor heeds he, as were meet, kindred or friends;
    Nay, of myself he putteth by the prayer
    Unanswered, being bewitched; for well I deem
    This is not noble-minded Nala's sin,
    But some ill spell possesseth him to shut
    His ears to me. Thou, therefore, charioteer!
    Our refuge be; do what I shall command;
    My heart is dark with fear. Yea, it may fall
    Our lord will perish. Wherefore, harnessing
    His chosen steeds, which fly as swift as thought.
    Take these our children in the chariot
    And drive to Kundina, delivering there
    Unto my kin the little ones, and car,
    And horses. Afterwards abide thou there,
    Or otherwhere depart."
                           Varshneya heard
    The words of Damayanti, and forthwith
    In Nala's council-hall recounted them,
    The chief men being present; who, thus met,
    And long debating, gave him leave to go.
    So with that royal pair to Bhima's town
    Drove he, and at Vidarbha rendered up,
    Together with the swift steeds and the car,
    That sweet maid Indrasena, and the Prince
    Indrasen, and made reverence to the King,
    Saddened for sake of Nala. Afterwards
    Taking his leave, unto Ayodhyâ
    Varshneya went, exceeding sorrowful,
    And with King Rituparna (O my Prince!)
    Took service as a charioteer.
                                  These gone--
    The praised-of-poets, Nala, still played on,
    Till Pushkara his kingdom's wealth had won,
    And whatso was to lose beside. Thereat
    With scornful laugh mocked he that beggared Prince,
    Saying, "One other throw; once more!--Yet sooth,
    What canst thou stake? Nothing is left for thee
    Save Damayanti; all the rest is mine.
    Play we for Damayanti, if thou wilt."
    But hearing this from Pushkara, the Prince
    So in his heart by grief and shame was torn,
    No word he uttered--only glared in wrath
    Upon his mocker, upon Pushkara.
    Then, his rich robes and jewels stripping off,
    Uncovered, with one cloth, 'mid waiting friends
    Sorrowful passed he forth, his great state gone;
    The Princess, with one garment, following him,
    Piteous to see. And there without the gates
    Three nights they lay--Nashadha's King and Queen.
    Upon the fourth day Pushkara proclaimed,
    Throughout the city, "Whoso yieldeth help
    To Nala, dieth! Let my will be known!"
      So, for this bitter word of Pushkara's power
    (O Yudhisthir!) the townsmen rendered not
    Service nor love, but left them outcast there,
    Unhelped, whom all the city should have helped.
    Yet three nights longer tarried he, his drink
    The common pool, his meat such fruits and roots
    As miserable hunger plucks from earth:
    Then fled they from those walls, the Prince going first,
    The Princess following.
                            After grievous days,
    Pinched ever with sharp famine, Nala saw
    A flock of gold-winged birds lighting anigh,
    And to himself the famished Raja said:--
    "Lo! here is food; this day we shall have store;"
    Then lightly cast his cloth and covered them.
    But these, fluttering aloft, bore with them there
    Nala's one cloth; and, hovering overhead,
    Uttered sharp-stinging words, reviling him
    Even as he stood, naked to all the airs,
    Downcast and desperate: "Thou brain-sick Prince!
    We are the dice; we come to ravish hence
    Thy last poor cloth; we were not well content
    Thou shouldst depart owning a garment still."
    And when he saw the dice take wings and fly,
    Leaving him bare, to Damayanti spake
    This melancholy Prince: "O Blameless One,
    They by whose malice I am driven forth,
    Finding no sustenance, sad, famine-gaunt--
    They whose decree forbade Nishadha's folk
    Should succor me, their Raja--these have come--
    Demon and dice--and like to winged birds
    Have borne away my cloth. To such shame fall'n,
    Such utmost woe, wretched, demented--I
    Thy lord am still, and counsel thee for good.
    Attend! Hence be there many roads which go
    Southwards: some pass Avanti's walls, and some
    Skirt Rikshavan, the forest of the bears;
    This wends to Vindhya's lofty peaks, and this
    To the green banks where quick Payoshni runs
    Seaward, between her hermitages, rich
    In fruits and roots; and yon path leadeth thee
    Unto Vidarbha; that to Kosala,
    And therefrom southward--southward--far away."
      So spake he to the Princess wistfully,
    Between his words pointing along the paths,
    Which she should take (O King!). But Bhima's child
    Made answer, bowed with grief, her soft voice choked
    With sobs, these piteous accents uttering:--
      "My heart beats quick; my body's force is gone,
    Thinking, dear Prince, on this which thou hast said,
    Pointing along the paths. What! robbed of realm,
    Stripped of thy wealth, bare, famished, parched with thirst,
    Thus shall I leave thee in the untrodden wood?
    Ah, no! While thou dost muse on dear days fled,
    Hungry and weeping, I in this wild waste
    Will charm thy griefs away, solacing thee.
    The wisest doctors say, 'In every woe
    No better physic is than wifely love,'
    And, Nala, I will make it true to thee."
      "Thou mak'st it true," he said; "thou sayest well,
    Sweet Damayanti; neither is there friend
    To sad men given better than a wife.
    I had not thought to leave thee, foolish Love!
    Why didst thou fear? Alas, 't is from myself
    That I would fly--not thee, thou Faultless One!"
      "Yet, if," the Princess answered, "Maharaja!
    Thou hadst no thought to leave me, why by thee
    Was the way pointed to Vidarbha's walls?
    I know thou wouldst not quit me, noblest Lord,
    Being thyself, but only if thy mind
    Were sore distraught; and see, thou gazest still
    Along the southward road, my dread thereby
    Increasing, thou that wert as are the gods!
    If it be thy fixed thought, 'Twere best she went
    Unto her people'--be it so; I go;
    But hand in hand with thee. Thus let us fare
    Unto Vidarbha, where the King, my sire,
    Will greet thee well, and honor thee; and we
    Happy and safe within his gates shall dwell."
      "As is thy father's kingdom," Nala said,
    "So, once, was mine. Be sure, whatever betide,
    Never will I go thither! How, in sooth,
    Should I, who came there glorious, gladdening thee,
    Creep back, thy shame and scorn, disconsolate?"
      So to sweet Damayanti spake the Prince,
    Beguiling her, whom now one cloth scarce clad--
    For but one garb they shared; and thus they strayed
    Hither and thither, faint for meat and drink,
    Until a little hut they spied; and there,
    Nishadha's monarch, entering, sat him down
    On the bare ground, the Princess by his side--
    Vidarbha's glory, wearing that scant cloth,
    Without a mat, soiled by the dust and mire.
    At Damayanti's side he sank asleep,
    Outworn; and beauteous Damayanti slept,
    Spent with strange trials--- she so gently reared,
    So soft and holy. But while slumbering thus,
    No peaceful rest knew Nala. Trouble-tossed
    He woke, forever thinking of his realm
    Lost, lieges estranged, and all the griefs
    Of that wild wood. These on his heart came back,
    And, "What if I shall do it? What, again,
    If I shall do it not?" So murmured he.
    "Would death be better, or to leave my Love?
    For my sake she endures this woe, my fate
    Too fondly sharing; freed from me, her steps
    Would turn unto her people. At my side,
    Sure suffering is her portion; but apart,
    It might be she would somewhere comfort find."
      Thus with himself debating o'er and o'er,
    The Prince resolves abandonment were best.
    "For how," saith he, "should any in the wood
    Harm her, so radiant in her grace, so good,
    So noble, virtuous, faithful, famous, pure?"
    Thus mused his miserable mind, seduced
    By Kali's cursed mischiefs to betray
    His sleeping wife. Then, seeing his loin-cloth gone,
    And Damayanti clad, he drew anigh,
    Thinking to take of hers, and muttering,
    "May I not rend one fold, and she not know?"
    So meditating, round the cabin crept
    Prince Nala, feeling up and down its walls;
    And, presently, within the purlieus found
    A naked knife, keen-tempered; therewithal
    Shred he away a piece, and bound it on;
    Then made with desperate steps to seek the waste,
    Leaving the Princess sleeping; but, anon,
    Turns back again in changeful mood and glides
    Into the hut, and, gazing wistfully
    On slumbering Damayanti, moans with tears:--
    "Ah, Sweetheart! whom nor wind nor sun before
    Hath ever rudely touched; thou to be couched
    In this poor hut, its floor thy bed, and I,
    Thy lord, deserting thee, stealing from thee
    Thy last robe! O my Love with the bright smile,
    My slender-waisted Queen! Will she not wake
    To madness? Yea, and when she wanders lone
    In the dark wood, haunted with beasts and snakes,
    How will it fare with Bhima's tender child,
    The bright and peerless? O my life, my wife!
    May the great sun, may the Eight Powers of air,
    The Rudras, Maruts, and the Aświns twain,
    Guard thee, thou true and dear one, on thy way!"
      So to his sleeping Queen--on all the earth
    Unmatched for beauty--spake he piteously;
    Then breaks away once more, by Kali driven.
    But yet another and another time
    Stole back into the hut, for one last gaze--
    That way by Kali dragged, this way by love.
    Two hearts he had--the trouble-stricken Prince--
    One beating "Go," one throbbing "Stay"; and thus
    Backwards and forwards swung his mind between,
    Till, mastered by the sorrow and the spell,
    Frantic flies Nala, leaving there alone
    That tender-sleeper, sighing as she slept.
    He flies--the soulless prey of Kali flies;
    Still, while he hurries through the forest drear,
    Thinking upon that sweet face he hath left.
      Far distant (King!) was Nala, when, refreshed,
    The slender-waisted wakened, shuddering
    At the wood's silence; but when, seeking him,
    She found no Nala, sudden anguish seized
    Her frightened heart, and, lifting high her voice,
    Loud cries she: "Maharaja! Nishadha's Prince!
    Ha, Lord! ha, Maharaja! ha, Master! why
    Hast thou abandoned me? Now am I lost,
    Am doomed, undone, left in this lonesome gloom.
    Wert thou not named, O Nala, true and just?
    Yet art thou such, to quit me while I slept?
    And hast thou so forsaken me, thy wife--
    Thine own fond wife--who never wrought thee wrong
    When by all others wrong was wrought on thee?
    Mak'st thou it good to me, now, Lord of men,
    That love which long ago before the gods
    Thou didst proclaim? Alas! Death will not come,
    Except at his appointed time to men,
    And therefore for a little I shall live,
    Whom thou hast lived to leave. Nay, 't is a jest!
    Ah, Truant, Runaway, enough thou play'st!
    Come forth, my Lord!--I am afraid! Come forth!
    Linger not, for I see--I spy thee there;
    Thou art within yon thicket! Why not speak
    One word, Nishadha? Nala, cruel Prince!
    Thou know'st me, lone, and comest not to calm
    My terrors, and be with me in my need.
    Art gone indeed? Then I'll not mourn myself,
    For whatso may befall me; I must think
    How desolate thou art, and weep for thee.
    What wilt thou do, thirsty and hungry, spent
    With wandering, when, at nightfall, 'mid the trees
    Thou hast me not, sweet Prince, to comfort thee?"
      Thereat, distracted by her bitter fears,
    Like one whose heart is fire, forward and back
    She runs, hither and thither, weeping, wild.
    One while she sinks to earth, one while she springs
    Quick to her feet; now utterly overcome
    By fear and fasting, now by grief driven mad,
    Wailing and sobbing; till anon, with moans
    And broken sighs and tears, Bhima's fair child,
    The ever-faithful wife, speaks thus again:--
    "By whomsoever's spell this harm hath fall'n
    On Nishadha's Lord, I pray that evil one
    May bear a bitterer plague than Nala doth!
    To him, whoever set my guileless Prince
    On these ill deeds, I pray some direr might
    May bring far darker days, and life to live
    More miserable still!"
                          Thus, woe-begone,
    Mourned that great-hearted wife her vanished lord,
    Seeking him ever in the gloomy shades,
    By wild beasts haunted. Roaming everywhere,
    Like one possessed, frantic, disconsolate,
    Went Bhima's daughter. "Ha, ha! Maharaja!"
    So crying runs she, so in every place
    Is heard her ceaseless wail, as when is heard
    The fish-hawk's cry, which screams, and circling screams,
    And will not stint complaining.
                                    Suddenly,
    Straying too near his den, a serpent's coils
    Seized Bhima's daughter. A prodigious snake,
    Glittering and strong, and furious for food,
    Knitted about the Princess. She, o'erwhelmed
    With horror, and the cold enfolding death,
    Spends her last breaths in pitiful laments
    For Nala, not herself. "Ah, Prince!" she cried,
    "That would have saved me, who must perish now,
    Seized in the lone wood by this hideous snake,
    Why art thou not beside me? What will be
    Thy thought, Nishadha! me remembering
    In days to come, when, from the curse set free,
    Thou hast thy noble mind again, thyself,
    Thy wealth--all save thy wife? Then thou'lt be sad,
    Be weary, wilt need food and drink; but I
    Shall minister no longer. Who will tend
    My Love, my Lord, my Lion among kings,
    My blameless Nala--Damayanti dead?"
      That hour a hunter, roving through the brake,
    Heard her bewailing, and with quickened steps
    Made nigh, and, spying a woman, almond-eyed,
    Lovely, forlorn, by that fell monster knit,
    He ran, and, as he came, with keen shaft clove,
    Through gaping mouth and crown, th'unwitting worm,
    Slaying it. Then the woodman from its folds
    Freed her, and laved the snake's slime from her limbs
    With water of the pool, comforting her
    And giving food; and afterwards (my King!)
    Inquiry made: "What doest, in this wood,
    Thou with the fawn's eyes? And how earnest thou,
    My mistress, to such pit of misery?"
      And Damayanti, spoken fair by him,
    Recounted all which had befallen her.
      But, gazing on her graces, scantly clad
    With half a cloth, those smooth, full sides, those breasts
    Beauteously swelling, form of faultless mould,
    Sweet youthful face, fair as the moon at full,
    And dark orbs, by long curving lashes swept;
    Hearing her tender sighs and honeyed speech,
    The hunter fell to hot desire; he dared
    Essay to woo, with whispered words at first,
    And next by amorous approach, the Queen;
    Who, presently perceiving what he would,
    And all that baseness of him--being so pure,
    So chaste, and faithful--like a blazing torch
    Took fire of scorn and anger 'gainst the man,
    Her true soul burning at him, till the wretch,
    Wicked in heart, but impotent of will,
    Glared on her, splendidly invincible
    In weakness, loftily defying wrong,
    A living flame of lighted chastity.
    She then--albeit so desolate, so lone,
    Abandoned by her lord, stripped of her state--
    Like a proud princess stormed, flinging away
    All terms of supplication, cursing him
    With wrath which scorched: "If I am clean in heart
    And true in thought unto Nishadha's King,
    Then mayest thou, vile pursuer of the beasts,
    Sink to the earth, stone dead!"
                                    While she did speak,
    The hunter breathless fell to earth, stone dead,
    As falls a tree-trunk blasted by the bolt.
      That ravisher destroyed, the lotus-eyed
    Fared forward, threading still the fearful wood,
    Lonely and dim, with trill of jhillikas[22]
    Resounding, and fierce noise of many beasts
    Laired in its shade, lions and leopards, deer,
    Close-hiding tigers, sullen bisons, wolves,
    And shaggy bears. Also the glades of it
    Were filled with fowl which crept, or flew, and cried.
    A home for savage men and murderers,
    Thick with a world of trees, whereof was sal,
    Sharp-seeded, weeping gum; knotted bambus,
    Dhavas with twisted roots; smooth aswatthas,
    Large-leaved, and creeping through the cloven rocks;
    Tindukas, iron-fibred, dark of grain;
    Ingudas, yielding oil; and kinsukas,
    With scarlet flowerets flaming. Thronging these
    Were arjuns and arishta-clumps, which bear
    The scented purple clusters; syandans,
    And tall silk-cotton trees, and mango-belts
    With silvery spears; and wild rose-apple, blent
    'Mid lodhra-tufts and khadirs, interknit
    By clinging rattans, climbing everywhere
    From stem to stem. Therewith were intermixed--
    Round pools where rocked the lotus--âmalaks,
    Plakshas with fluted leaves, kadambas sweet,
    Udumbaras; and, on the jungle-edge,
    Tangles of reed and jujube, whence there rose
    Bel-trees and nyagrodhas, dropping roots
    Down from the air; broad-leaved priyâlas, palms
    And date-trees, and the gold myrobalan,
    With copper-leaved vibhîtikas. All these
    Crowded the wood; and many a crag it held,
    With precious ore of metals interveined;
    And many a creeper-covered cave wherein
    The spoken word rolled round; and many a cleft
    Where the thick stems were like a wall to see;
    And many a winding stream and reedy jheel,
    And glassy lakelet, where the woodland beasts
    In free peace gathered.
                            Wandering onward thus,
    The Princess saw far-gliding forms of dread--
    Pisâchas, Rakshasas, ill sprites and fiends
    Which haunt, with swinging snakes, the undergrowth.
    Dark pools she saw, and drinking-holes, and peaks
    Wherefrom break down in tumbling cataracts
    The wild white waters, marvellous to hear.
    Also she passed--this daughter of a king--
    Where snorted the fierce buffaloes, and where
    The gray boars rooted for their food, and where
    The black bears growled, and serpents in the grass
    Rustled and hissed. But all along that way
    Safe paced she in her majesty of grace,
    High fortune, courage, constancy, and right--
    Vidarbha's glory--seeking, all alone,
    Lost Nala; and less terror at these sights
    Came to sad Damayanti for herself--
    Threading this dreadful forest--than for him.
    Most was her mind on Nala's fate intent.
    Bitterly grieving stood the sweet Princess
    Upon a rock, her tender limbs a-thrill
    With heavy fears for Nala while she spake:--
      "Broad-chested Chief! my long-armed Lord of men!
    Nishadha's King! Ah! whither art thou gone.
    Leaving me thus in the unpeopled wood?
    The Aśwamedha sacrifice thou mad'st,
    And all the rites and royal gifts hast given,
    A lion-hearted Prince, holy and true
    To all save me! That which thou didst declare,
    Hand in hand with me--once so fond and kind--
    Recall it now--thy sacred word, thy vow,
    Whithersoever, Raja, thou art fled.
    Think how the message of the gold-winged swans
    Was spoken, by thine own lips, then to me!
    True men keep faith; this is the teaching taught
    In Vedas, Angas, and Upangas all,
    Hear which we may; wilt thou not, therefore, Prince--
    Wilt thou not, terror of thy foes, keep faith,
    Making thy promise good to cleave to me?
    Ha, Nala, Lord! Am I not surely still
    Thy chosen, thy beloved? Answerest not
    Thy wife in this dark, horror-haunted shade?
    The tyrant of the jungle, fierce and fell,
    With jaws agape to take me, crouches nigh,
    And thou not here to rescue me--not thou,
    Who saidst none other in the world was dear
    But Damayanti! Prove the fond speech true,
    Uttered so often! Why repliest not
    To me, thy well-beloved; me, distraught,
    Longed for and longing; me, my Prince and pride,
    That am so weary, weak, and miserable,
    Stained with the mire, in this torn cloth half clad,
    Alone and weeping, seeing no help near?
    Ah, stag of all the herd! leav'st thou thy hind
    Astray, regarding not these tears which roll?
    My Nala, Maharaja! It is I
    Who cry, thy Damayanti, true and pure,
    Lost in the wood, and still thou answerest not!
    High-born, high-hearted, full of grace and strength
    In all thy limbs, shall I not find thee soon
    On yonder hill? Shall I not see, at last,
    In some track of this grim, beast-peopled wood,
    Standing, or seated, or upon the leaves
    Lying, or coming, him who is of men
    The glory, but for me the grief-maker?
    If not, whom shall I question, woe-begone,
    Saying, 'In any region of this wood
    Hast thou, perchance, seen Nala?' Is there none,
    In all the forest, would reply to me
    With tidings of my lord, wandered away,
    Kingly in mind and form, of hosts of foes
    The conqueror? Who will say, with blessed voice,
    'That Raja with the lotus-eyes is near,
    Whom thou dost seek'?--Nay, here comes one to ask,
    The yellow forest-king, his great jaws armed
    With fourfold fangs. A tiger standeth now
    Face to face on my path; I'll speak with him
    Fearlessly: 'Dreadful chief of all this waste,
    Thou art the sovereign of the beasts, and I
    Am daughter of Vidarbha's King; my name,
    The Princess Damayanti; know thou me,
    Wife of Nishadha's Lord--of Nala--styled
    "Subduer of his Foes"? Him seek I here--
    Abandoned, sorrow-stricken, miserable.
    Comfort me, mighty beast, if so thou canst,
    Saying thou hast seen Nala; but if this
    Thou canst not do, then, ah, thou savage lord,
    Terrible friend, devour me, setting me
    Free from all woes!' The tiger answereth not;
    He turns, and quits me in my tears, to stalk
    Down where the river glitters through the reeds,
    Seeking its seaward way. Then will I pray
    Unto yon sacred mount of clustered crags,
    Broad-shouldered, shining, lifting high to heaven
    Its diverse-colored peaks, where the mind climbs
    Its hid heart rich with silver veins, and gold,
    And stored with many a precious gem unseen.
    Clear towers it o'er the forest, broad and bright
    Like a green banner; and the sides of it
    House many a living thing--lions and boars,
    Tigers and elephants, and bears and deer.
    Softly around me from its feathered flocks
    The songs ring, perched upon the kinsuk trees,
    The asokas, vakuls, and punnâga boughs,
    Or hidden in the karnikara leaves,
    And tendrils of the dhava or the fig;
    Full of great glens it soars, where waters leap
    And bright birds lave. This king of hills I sue
    For tidings of my lord. Protector he
    Of the four castes, performer of the rites
    Called Rajasuya and the Aśwamedha--
    A bounteous giver, first of rulers, known
    For his large shining eyes; holy and just,
    Fast to his word, unenvious, sweet of speech,
    Gentle and valiant, dutiful and pure;
    The guardian of Vidarbha, of his foes
    The slayer. Know me, O Majestic Mount!
    For that King's daughter, bending low to thee.
    In Nishadha lived the father of my lord,
    The Maharaja Virasena named,
    Wealthy and great; whose son, of regal blood,
    High-fortuned, powerful, and noble-souled,
    Ruleth by right the realm paternal: he
    Is Nala, terror of all enemies;
    Dark Nala, praised-in-song; Nala the just,
    The pure; deep-seen in scriptures, sweet of speech,
    Drinker of Soma-juice, and worshipper
    Of Agni; sacrificing, giving gifts;
    First in the wars, a perfect, princely lord.
    His wife am I, Great Mountain! and come here
    Fortuneless, husbandless, and spiritless,
    Everywhere seeking him, my best of men.
                            Then she cried:--
    "But answer for thyself, Hero and Lord!
    If thou art in the forest, show thyself!
    Alas! when shall I hear that voice, as low,
    As tender as the murmur of the rain
    When great clouds gather; sweet as Amrit-drink?
    Thy voice, once more, my Nala, calling to me
    Full softly, 'Damayanti!'--dearest Prince,
    That would be music soothing to these ears
    As sound of sacred Veda; that would stay
    My pains and comfort me, and bring me peace."
      Thereafter, turning from the mount, she went
    Northwards, and journeying on three nights and days
    Came to a green incomparable grove
    By holy men inhabited; a haunt
    Placid as Paradise, whose indwellers
    Like to Vaśistha, Bhrigu, Atri, were--
    Those ancient saints. Restraining sense they lived,
    Heedful in meats, subduing passion, pure,
    Breathing within; their food water and herbs;
    Ascetics; very holy; seeking still
    The heavenward road; clad in the bark of trees
    And skins--all gauds of earth being put by.
    This hermitage, peopled by gentle ones,
    Glad Damayanti spied, circled with herds
    Of wild things grazing fearless, and with troops
    Of monkey-folk o'erheard; and when she saw,
    Her heart was lightened, for its quietness.
    So drew she nigh--that lovely wanderer--
    Bright-browed, long-tressed, large-hipped, full-bosomed, fair,
    With pearly teeth and honeyed mouth, in gait
    Right queenly still, having those long black eyes--
    The wife of Virasena's son, the gem
    Of all dear women, glory of her time;
    Sad Damayanti entered their abode,
    Those holy men saluting reverently,
    With modest body bowed. Thus stood she there
    And all the saints spake gently, "Swâgatam--
    Welcome!" and gave the greetings which are meet;
    And afterwards, "Repose thyself," they said;
    "What wouldst thou have of us?" Then, with soft words
    The slender-waisted spake: "Of all these here,
    So worshipful in sacrifice and rite--
    'Mid gentle beasts and birds--in tasks and toils
    And blameless duties--is it well?" And they
    Answered: "We thank you, noble lady, well.
    Tell us, most beauteous one, thy name, and say
    What thou desirest. Seeing thee so fair,
    So worthy, yet so sorrowful, our minds
    Are lost in wonder. Weep not. Comfort take.
    Art thou the goddess of the wood? Art thou
    The Mountain-Yakshi, or, belike, some sprite
    Which lives under the river? Tell us true,
    Gentle and faultless form!"
                                 Whereat reply
    Thus made she to the Rishis: "None of these
    Am I, good saints. No goddess of the wood,
    Nor yet a mountain nor a river sprite;
    A woman ye behold, most only ones,
    Whose moving story I will tell you true.
    The Raja of Vidarbha is my sire,
    Bhima his name, and--Best of Twice-born!--know
    My husband is Nishadha's Chief, the famed,
    The wise and valiant and victorious Prince,
    The high and lordly Nala; of the gods
    A steadfast worshipper; of Bráhmanas
    The friend; his people's shield; honored and strong,
    Truth-speaking, skilled in arms, sagacious, just;
    Terrible to his foes, fortunate, lord
    Of many conquered towns; a godlike man,
    Princeliest of princes--Nala--one that hath
    A countenance like the full moon's for light,
    And eyes of lotus. This true offerer
    Of sacrifices, this close votary
    Of Vedas and Vedângas, in the war
    Deadly to enemies, like sun and moon
    For splendor--by some certain evil ones
    Being defied to dice, my virtuous Prince
    Was, by their wicked acts, of realm despoiled--
    Wealth, jewels, all. I am his woful wife,
    The Princess Damayanti. Seeking him
    Through thickets have I roamed, over rough hills,
    By crag and river and the reedy lake,
    By marsh and waterfall and jungle-bush,
    In quest of him--my lord, my warrior,
    My hero--and still roam, uncomforted.
    Worshipful brethren! say if he hath come--
    Nishadha's Chief, my Nala, hitherward
    Unto your pleasant homes--he, for whose sake
    I wander in the dismal pathless wood
    With bears and tigers haunted--terrible!
    Ah! if I find him not, ere there be passed
    Many more nights and days, peace will I win;
    For death shall set my mournful spirit free.
    What cause have I to live, lacking my Prince?
    Why should I longer breathe, whose heart is dead
    With sorrow for my lord?"
                               To Bhima's child,
    So in the wood bewailing, made reply
    Those holy, truthful men: "Beautiful One!
    The future is for thee; fair will it fall!
    Our eyes, by long devotions opened, see--
    Even now--thy lord; thou shalt behold him soon,
    Nishadha's chief, the famous Nala, strong
    In battle, loving justice. Yea, this Prince
    Thou wilt regain, Bhima's sad daughter! freed
    From troubles, purged of sin; and witness him--
    With all his gems and glories--governing
    Nishadha once again, invincible,
    Joy of his friends and terror of his foes.
    Yea, Noblest, thou shalt have thy love anew
    In days to come."
                      So speaking, from the sight
    Of Damayanti, at that instant, passed
    Hermits, with hermitage and holy fires,
    Evanishing. In wonderment she stood,
    Gazing bewildered. Then the Princess cried:--
    "Was it in dream I saw them? Whence befell
    This unto me? Where are the brethren gone,
    The ring of huts, the pleasant stream that ran
    With birds upon its crystal banks, the grove
    Delightful, with its fruits and flowers?" Long while
    Pondered and wondered Damayanti there,
    Her bright smile fled, pale, strengthless, sorrowful;
    Then to another region of the wood,
    With sighs, and eyes welling great tears, she passed,
    Lamenting; till a beauteous tree she spied--
    The Asoka, best of trees. Fair rose it there
    Beside the forest, glowing with the flame
    Of golden and crimson blossoms, and its boughs
    Full of sweet-singing birds.
                                 "Ahovat--Look!" Hath he passed wandering
    Under thy branches, grievously forlorn?
    Answer, Asoka! 'Sorrow-ender,' speak!
    That I go sorrowless, O heart's-ease, be
    Truly heart-easing--ease my heart of pain."
      Thus, wild with grief, she spake unto the tree,
    Round and round walking, as to reverence it;
    And then, unanswered, the sweet lady sped
    Through wastes more dreadful, passing many a
    Many still-gliding rillets, many a peak
    Tree-clad, with beasts and birds of wondrous kind,
    In dark ravines, and caves, and lonely glooms.
    These things saw Damayanti, Bhima's child,
    Seeking her lord.
                      At last, on the long road,
    She, whose soft smile was once so beautiful,
    A caravan encountered. Merchantmen
    With trampling horses, elephants, and wains,
    Made passage of a river, running slow
    In cool, clear waves. The quiet waters gleamed,
    Shining and wide outspread, between the canes
    Which bordered it, wherefrom echoed the cries
    Of fish-hawks, curlews, and red chakravâks,
    With sounds of leaping fish and water-snakes,
    And tortoises, amid its shoals and flats
    Sporting or feeding.
                         When she spied that throng--
    Heart-maddened with her anguish, weak and wan,
    Half clad, bloodless and thin, her long black locks
    Matted with dust--breathlessly breaks she in
    Upon them--Nala's wife--so beauteous once,
    So honored. Seeing her, some fled in fear;
    Some gazed, speechless with wonder; some called out,
    Mocking the piteous face by words of scorn;
    But some (my King!) had pity of her woe,
    And spake her fair, inquiring: "Who art thou?
    And whence? And in this grove what seekest thou,
    To come so wild? Thy mien astonisheth.
    Art of our kind, or art thou something strange,
    The spirit of the forest, or the hill,
    Or river valley? Tell us true; then we
    Will buy thy favor. If, indeed, thou art
    Yakshini, Rakshasi, or she-creature
    Haunting this region, be propitious! Send
    Our caravan in safety on its path,
    That we may quickly, by thy fortune, go
    Homeward, and all fair chances fall to us."
      Hereby accosted, softly gave response
    That royal lady--weary for her lord--
    Answering the leader of the caravan,
    And those that gathered round, a marvelling throng
    Of men and boys and elders: "Oh, believe
    I am as you, of mortal birth, but born
    A Raja's child, and made a Raja's wife.
    Him seek I, Chieftain of Nishadha, named
    Prince Nala--famous, glorious, first in war.
    If ye know aught of him, my king, my joy,
    My tiger of the jungle, my lost lord,
    Quick, tell me, comfort me!"
                               Then one who led
    Their line--the merchant Śuchi--answering,
    Spake to the peerless Princess: "Hear me now.
    I am the captain of this caravan,
    But nowhere any named by Nala's name
    Have I, or these, beheld. Of evil beasts
    The woods were full--cheetahs and bears and cats,
    Tigers and elephants, bison and boar;
    Those saw we in the brake on every side,
    But nowhere nought of human shape, save thee.
    May Manibhadra have us in his grace--
    The Lord of Yakshas--as I tell thee truth!"
      Then sadly spake she to the trader-chief
    And to his band: "Whither wend ye, I pray?
    Please ye, acquaint me where this Sârthâ[23] goes."
      Replied the captain: "Unto Chedi's realm,
    Where rules the just Subâhu, journey we,
    To sell our merchandise, daughter of men!"
      Thus by the chieftain of the band informed,
    The peerless Princess journeyed with them, still
    Seeking her lord. And at the first the way
    Fared through another forest, dark and deep;
    Afterwards came the traders to a pool
    Broad, everywhere delightful, odorous
    With cups of opened lotus, and its shores
    Green with rich grass, and edged with garden trees--
    A place of flowers and fruits and singing birds.
    So cool and clear and peacefully it gleamed,
    That men and cattle, weary with the march,
    Clamored to pitch; and, on their chieftain's sign,
    The pleasant hollow entered they, and camped--
    All the long caravan--at sunset's hour.
      There, in the quiet of the middle night,
    Deep slumbered these; when, sudden on them fell
    A herd of elephants, thirsting to drink,
    In rut, the mada[24] oozing from their heads.
    And when those great beasts spied the caravan,
    And smelled the tame cows of their kind, they rushed
    Headlong, and, mad with must, overwhelming all,
    With onset vast and irresistible.
    As when from some tall peak into the plain
    Thunder and smoke and crash the rolling rocks,
    Through splintered stems and thorns breaking their path,
    So swept the herd to where, beside the pool,
    Those sleepers lay; and trampled them to earth
    Half-risen, helpless, shrieking in the dark,
    "Haha! the elephants!" Of those unslain,
    Some in the thickets sought a shelter; some,
    Yet dazed with sleep, stood panic-stricken, mute;
    Till here with tusks, and there with trunks, the beasts
    Gored them, and battered them, and trod them flat
    Under their monstrous feet. Then might be seen
    Camels with camel-drivers, perishing,
    And men flying in fear, who struck at men--
    Terror and death and clamor everywhere:
    While some, despairing, cast themselves to earth;
    And some, in fleeing, fell and died; and some
    Climbed to the tree-tops. Thus on every side
    Scattered and ruined was that caravan--
    Cattle and merchants--by the herd assailed.
    So hideous was the tumult,-all three worlds
    Seemed filled with fright; and one was heard to cry:--
    "The fire is in the tents! fly for your lives!
    Stay not!" And others cried: "Look where we leave
    Our treasures trodden down; gather them! Halt!
    Why run ye, losing ours and yours? Nay, stay!
    Stand ye, and we will stand!" And then to these
    One voice cried, "Stand!" another, "Fly! we die!"
    Answered by those again who shouted, "Stand!
    Think what we lose, O cowards!"
                                    While this rout
    Raged, amid dying groans and sounds of fear,
    The Princess, waking startled, terror-struck,
    Saw such a sight as might the boldest daunt--
    Such scene as those great lovely lotus-eyes
    Ne'er gazed upon before. Sick with new dread--
    Her breath suspended 'twixt her lips--she rose
    And heard, of those surviving, some one moan
    Amidst his fellows: "From whose evil act
    Is this the fruit? Hath worship not been paid
    To mighty Manibhadra? Gave we not
    The reverence due to Vaishravan, that King
    Of all the Yakshas? Was not offering made
    At outset to the spirits which impede?
    Is this the evil portent of the birds?
    Were the stars adverse? or what else hath fall'n?"
      And others said, wailing for friends and goods:--
    "Who was that woman, with mad eyes, that came
    Into our camp, ill-favored, hardly cast
    In mortal mould? By her, be sure, was wrought
    This direful sorcery. Demon or witch,
    Yakshî or Rakshasî, or gliding ghost,
    Or something frightful, was she. Hers this deed
    Of midnight murders; doubt there can be none.
    Ah, if we could espy that hateful one,
    The ruin of our march, the woe-maker,
    With stones, clods, canes, or clubs, nay, with clenched fists,
    We'd strike her dead, the murderess of our band!"
      Trembling the Princess heard those angry words;
    And--saddened, maddened, shamed--breathless she fled
    Into the thicket, doubtful if such sin
    Might not be hers, and with fresh dread distressed.
    "Aho!" she weeps, "pitiless grows the wrath
    Of Fate against me. Not one gleam of good
    Arriveth. Of what fault is this the fruit?
    I cannot call to mind a wrong I wrought
    To any--even a little thing--in act
    Or thought or word; whence then hath come this curse?
    Belike from ill deeds done in by-gone lives
    It hath befall'n, and what I suffer now
    Is payment of old evils undischarged.
    Grievous the doom--my palace lost, my lord,
    My children, kindred; I am torn away
    From home and love and all, to roam accurst
    In this plague-haunted waste!"
                                   When broke the day,
    Those which escaped alive, with grievous cries
    Departed, mourning for their fellows slain.
    Each one a kinsman or a friend laments--
    Father or brother, son, or comrade dear.
      And Damayanti, hearing, weeps anew,
    Saying: "What dreadful sin was that I wrought
    Long, long ago, which, when I chance to meet
    These wayfarers in the unpeopled wood,
    Dooms them to perish by the elephants,
    In my dark destiny enwrapped? No doubt
    More and more sorrow I shall bear, or bring,
    For none dies ere his time; this is the lore
    Of ancient sages; this is why--being glad
    If I could die--I was not trampled down
    Under the elephants. There haps to man
    Nothing unless by destiny. Why else,
    Seeing that never have I wrought one wrong,
    From childhood's hours, in thought or word or deed,
    Hath this woe chanced? May be--meseems it may!--
    The mighty gods, at my Swayamvara
    Slighted by me for Nala's dearest sake,
    Are wroth, and by their dread displeasure thus
    To loss and loneliness I am consigned!"
      So--woe-begone and wild--this noble wife,
    Deserted Damayanti, poured her griefs:
    And afterwards, with certain Bráhmanas
    Saved from the rout--good men who knew the Veds--
    Sadly her road she finished, like the moon
    That goeth clouded in the month of rain.
    Thus travelling long, the Princess drew at last
    Nigh to a city, at the evening hour.
    The dwelling-place it was of Chedi's Chief,
    The just Subâhu. Through its lofty gates
    Painfully passed she, clad in half a cloth;
    And as she entered--sorrow-stricken, wan,
    Foot-weary, stained with mire, with unsmoothed hair,
    Unbathed, and eyes of madness--those who saw,
    Wondered and stared, and watched her as she toiled
    Down the long city street. The children break
    From play, and--boys with girls--followed her steps,
    So that she came--a crowd encompassing--
    Unto the King's door. On the palace roof
    The mother of the Maharaja paced,
    And marked the throng, and that sad wayfarer.
    Then to her nurse spake the queen-mother this:--
    "Go thou, and bring yon woman unto me!
    The people trouble her; mournful she walks,
    Seeming unfriended, yet bears she a mien
    Made for a king's abode, and, all so wild,
    Still are her wistful eyes like the great eyes
    Of Lakshmi's self." So downwards went the nurse,
    Bidding the rude folk back; and to the roof
    Of the great palace led that wandering one--
    Desolate Damayanti--whom the Queen
    Courteous besought: "Though thou art wan of face,
    Thou wear'st a noble air, which through thy griefs
    Shineth as lightning doth behind its cloud.
    Tell me thy name, and whose thou art, and whence.
    No lowborn form is thine, albeit thou com'st
    Wearing no ornaments; and all alone
    Wanderest--not fearing men--by some spell safe."
      Hearing which words, the child of Bhima spake
    Gratefully this: "A woful woman I,
    And woful wife, but faithful to my vows;
    High-born, but like a servant, like a slave,
    Lodging where it may hap, and finding food
    From the wild roots and fruits wherever night
    Brings me my resting-place. Yet is my lord
    A prince noble and great, with countless gifts
    Endued; and him I followed faithfully
    As 't were his shadow, till hard fate decreed
    That he should fall into the rage of dice:--
    And, worsted in that play, into the wood
    He fled, clad in one cloth, frenzied and lone.
    And I his steps attended in the wood,
    Comforting him, my husband. But it chanced,
    Hungry and desperate, he lost his cloth;
    And I--one garment bearing--followed still
    My unclad lord, despairing, reasonless,
    Through many a weary night not slumbering.
    But when, at length, a little while I slept,
    My Prince abandoned me, rending away
    Half of my garment, leaving there his wife,
    Who never wrought him wrong. That lord I seek
    By day and night, with heart and soul on fire--
    Seek, but still find not; though he is to me
    Brighter than light which gleams from lotus-cups,
    Divine as are the immortals, dear as breath,
    The master of my life, my pride, my joy!"
      Whom, grieving so, her sweet eyes blind with tears,
    Gently addressed Subâhu's mother--sad
    To hear as she to tell. "Stay with us here,
    Thou ill-starred lady. Great the friendliness
    I have for thee. The people of our court
    Shall thy lost husband seek; or, it may be,
    He too will wander hither of himself
    By devious paths: yea, mournful one, thy lord
    Thou wilt regain, abiding with us here."
      And Damayanti, bowing, answered thus
    Unto the Queen: "I will abide with thee,
    O mother of illustrious sons, if so
    They feed me not on orts, nor seek from me
    To wash the feet of comers, nor that I
    Be set to speak with any stranger-men
    Before the curtain; and, if any man
    Sue me, that he be punished; and if twice,
    Then that he die, guilty of infamy.
    This is my earnest prayer; but Bráhmanas
    Who seek my husband, or bear news of him,
    Such will I speak with. If it may be thus,
    Gladly would I abide, great lady, here;
    If otherwise, it is not on my mind
    To sojourn longer."
                            Very tenderly
    Quoth the queen-mother: "All that thou dost ask
    We will ordain. The gods reward thy love,
    Which hath such honor!" Comforting her so,
    To the king's daughter, young Sunandâ, spake
    The Maharajni: "See, Sunandâ, here
    Clad as a handmaid, but in form divine,
    One of thy years, gentle and true. Be friends;
    Take and give pleasure in glad company
    Each with the other, keeping happy hearts."
      So went Sunandâ joyous to her house,
    Leading with loving hand the Princess in,
    The maidens of the court accompanying.

Part II.

    Not long (O Maharaja!) was Nala fled
    From Damayanti, when, in midmost gloom
    Of the thick wood a flaming fire he spied,
    And from the fire's heart heard proceed a voice
    Of one imperilled, crying many times:--
    "Haste hither, Punyashloka, Nala, haste!"
    "Fear not," the Prince replied; "I come!" and sprang
    Across the burning bushes, where he saw
    A snake--a king of serpents--lying curled
    In a great ring, which reared its dancing crest
    Saluting, and in human accents spoke:--
    "Maharaja, kindly lord, I am the snake
    Karkôtaka; by me was once betrayed
    The famous Rishi Narada; his wrath
    Doomed me, thou Chief of men! to bear this spell--
    'Coil thy false folds,' said he, 'forever here,
    A serpent, motionless upon this spot,
    Till it shall chance that Nala passeth by
    And bears thee hence; then only from my curse
    Canst thou be freed,' And prisoned by that curse
    I have no power to stir, though the wood burns;
    Nay, not a coil! good fellowship I'll show
    If thou wilt succor me. I'll be to thee
    A faithful friend, as no snake ever yet.
    Lift me, and quickly from the flames bear forth:
    For thee I shall grow light." Thereat shrank up
    That monstrous reptile to a finger's length;
    And grasping this, unto a place secure
    From burning, Nala bore it, where the air
    Breathed freshly, and the fire's black path was stayed.
      Then made the Prince to lay the serpent down,
    But yet again it speaks: "Nishadha's Lord,
    Grasp me and slowly go, counting thy steps;
    For, Raja, thou shalt have good fortune hence."
    So Nala slowly went, counting his steps;
    And when the tenth pace came, the serpent turned
    And bit the Prince. No sooner pierced that tooth
    Than all the likeness of Nishadha changed;
    And, wonder-struck, he gazed upon himself;
    While from the dust he saw the snake arise
    A man, and, speaking as Karkôtaka,
    Comfort him thus:--
                        "Thou art by me transformed
    That no man know thee: and that evil one
    (Possessing, and undoing thee, with grief)
    Shall so within thee by my venom smart,
    Shall through thy blood so ache, that--till he quit--
    He shall endure the woe he did impart.
    Thus by my potent spell, most noble Prince!
    (Who sufferest too long) thou wilt be freed
    From him that haunts thee. Fear no more the wood,
    Thou tiger of all princes! fear thou not
    Horned nor fanged beasts, nor any enemies,
    Though they be Bráhmans! safe thou goest now,
    Guarded from grief and hurt--Chieftain of men!
    By this kind poison. In the fields of war
    Henceforth the victory always falls to thee;
    Go joyous, therefore, Prince; give thyself forth
    For 'Vahûka, the charioteer:' repair
    To Rituparna's city, who is skilled
    In play, and dwells in fair Ayodhyâ.
    Wend thou, Nishadha! thither; he will teach
    Great subtlety in numbers unto thee,
    Exchanging this for thine own matchless gift
    Of taming horses. From the lordly line
    Descended of Ikshvaku, glad and kind
    The King will be; and thou, learning of him
    His deepest act of dice, wilt win back all,
    And clasp again thy Princess. Therefore waste
    No thought on woes. I tell thee truth! thy realm
    Thou shalt regain; and when the time is come
    That thou hast need to put thine own form on,
    Call me to mind, O Prince, and tie this cloth
    Around thy body. Wearing it, thy shape
    Thou shalt resume."
                       Therewith the serpent gave
    A magic twofold robe, not wove on earth,
    Which (O thou son of Kuru!) Nala took;
    And so the snake, transformed, vanished away.
      The great snake being gone, Nishadha's Chief
    Set forth, and on the tenth day entered in
    At Rituparna's town; there he besought
    The presence of the Raja, and spake thus:--
    "I am the chariot-driver, Vahûka.
    There is not on this earth another man
    Hath gifts like mine to tame and guide the steed;
    Moreover, thou mayest use me in nice needs
    And dangerous, where kings lack faithful hearts.
    Specially skilful I am in dressing meats;
    And whatso other duties may befall,
    Though they be weighty, I shall execute,
    If, Rituparna, thou wilt take me in."
      "I take thee," quoth the King. "Dwell here with me.
    Such service as thou knowest, render us.
    'Tis, Vahûka, forever in my heart
    To have my steeds the swiftest; be thy task
    To train me horses like the wind for speed;
    My charioteer I make thee, and thy wage
    Ten thousand gold suvernas. Thou wilt have
    For fellows, Varshneya and Jivala;
    With those abiding, lodge thou happy here."
      So entertained and honored of the King,
    In Rituparna's city Nala dwelled,
    Lodging with Varshneya and Jivala.
      There sojourned he (my Raja!), thinking still
    Of sweet Vidarbha's Princess day by day;
    And sunset after sunset one sad strain
    He sang: "Where resteth she that roamed the wood
    Hungry and parched and worn, but always true?
    Doth she remember yet her faultful lord?
    Ah, who is near her now?" So it befell
    Jivala heard him ever sighing thus,
    And questioned: "Who is she thou dost lament?
    Say, Vahûka! fain would I know her name.
    Long life be thine; but tell me who he is,
    The faultful man that was the lady's lord."
      And Nala answered him: "There lives a man,
    Evil and rash, that had a noble wife.
    False to his word he was; and thus it fell
    That somewhere, for some reason (ask not me!),
    He quitted her, this rash one. And--so wrenched
    Apart from hers--his spirit, bad and sad,
    Muses and moans, with grief's slow fire consumed
    Night-time and day-time. Thence it is he sings
    At every sunset this unchanging verse,
    An outcast on the earth, by hazard led
    Hither and thither. Such a man thou seest
    Woful, unworthy, holding in his heart
    Always that sin. I was that lady's lord,
    Whom she did follow through the dreadful wood,
    Living by me abandoned, at this hour;
    If yet, in truth, she lives--youthful, alone,
    Unpractised in the ways, not meriting
    Fortunes so hard. Ah, if indeed she lives,
    Who roamed the thick and boundless forest, full
    Of prowling beasts--roamed it, my Jivala,
    Unguarded by her guilty lord--forsook,
    Betrayed, good friend!"
                           Thus did Nishadha grieve,
    Calling sweet Damayanti to his mind.
    So tarried he within the Raja's house,
    And no man knew his place of sojourning.
      While, stripped of state, the Prince and Princess thus
    Were sunk to servitude, Bhima made quest,
    Sending his Bráhmans forth to search for them
    With straight commands, and for their road-money
    Liberal store. "Seek everywhere," said he
    Unto the twice-born, "Nala--everywhere
    My daughter Damayanti. Whoso comes
    Successful in this quest, discovering her--
    With lost Nishadha's Lord--and bringing them,
    A thousand cows to that man will I give,
    And village-lands whence shall be revenue
    As great as from a city. If so be
    Ye cannot bring me Nala and my child,
    To him that learns their refuge I will give
    The thousand cows."
                       Thereby rejoiced, they went,
    Those Bráhmans, hither and thither, up and down,
    Into all regions, rajaships, and towns,
    Seeking Nishadha's Chieftain, and his wife.
    But Nala nowhere found they; nowhere found
    Sweet Damayanti, Bhima's beauteous child--
      Until, straying to pleasant Chedipur,
    One day a twice-born came, Sudêva named,
    And entered it; and, spying round about
    (Upon a feast-day by the King proclaimed),
    He saw forth-passing through the palace gate
    A woman--Bhima's daughter--side by side
    With young Sunandâ. Little praise had now
    That beauty which in old days shone so bright;
    Marred with much grief it was, like sunlight dimmed
    By fold on fold of wreathed and creeping mists.
    But when Sudêva marked the great dark eyes--
    Lustreless though they were, and she so worn,
    So listless--"Lo, the Princess!" whispered he;--
    "'Tis the King's daughter," quoth he to himself;
    And thus mused on:--
                        "Yea! as I used to see,
    'Tis she! no other woman hath such grace!
    My task is done; I gaze on that one form,
    Which is like Lakshmi's, whom all worlds adore.
    I see the bosoms, rounded, dark, and smooth,
    As they were sister-moons; the soft moon-face
    Which with its queenly light makes all things bright
    Where it doth gleam; the large deep lotus-eyes,
    That, like to Rati's own, the Queen of Love,
    Beam, each a lovelit star, filling the worlds
    With longing. Ah, fair lotus-flower, plucked up
    By Fate's hard grasp from far Vidarbha's pool,
    How is thy cup muddied and slimed to-day!
    Ah, moon, how is thy night like to the eclipse
    When Rahu swallows up the silver round!
    Ah, tearless eyes, reddened with weeping him,
    How are ye like to gentle streams run dry!
    Ah, lake of lilies, where grief's elephant
    Hath swung his trunk, and turned the crystal black,
    And scattered all the blue and crimson cups,
    And frightened off the birds! Ah, lily-cup,
    Tender, and delicately leaved, and reared
    To blossom in a palace built of gems,
    How dost thou wither here, wrenched by the root,
    Sun-scorched and faded! Noblest, loveliest, best!--
    Who bear'st no gems, yet so becomest them--
    How like the new moon's silver horn thou art,
    When envious black clouds blot it! Lost for thee
    Are love, home, children, friends, and kinsmen; lost
    All joy of that fair body thou dost wear
    Only that it may last to find thy lord.
    Truly a woman's ornament is this:--
    The husband is her jewel; lacking him
    She hath none, though she shines with priceless pearls;
    Piteous must be her state! And, torn from her,
    Doth Nala cling to life; or, day by day,
    Waste with long yearning? Oh, as I behold
    Those black locks, and those eyes--dark and long-shaped
    As are the hundred-petalled lotus-leaves--
    And watch her joyless who deserves all joy,
    My heart is sore! When will she overpass
    The river of this sorrow, and come safe
    Unto its farther shore? When will she meet
    Her lord, as moon and moon-star in the sky
    Mingle? For, as I think, in winning her,
    Nala would win his happy days again,
    And--albeit banished now--have back his lands.
    Alike in years and graces, and alike
    In lordly race these were: no bride could seem
    Worthy Nishadha, if it were not she;
    Nor husband worthy of Vidarbha's Pride,
    Save it were Nala. It is meet I bring
    Comfort forthwith to yon despairing one,
    The consort of the just and noble Prince,
    For whom I see her heart-sick. I will go
    And speak good tidings to this moon-faced Queen,
    Who once knew nought of sorrows, but to-day
    Stands yonder, plunged heart-deep in woful thought."
      So, all those signs and marks considering
    Which stamped her Bhima's child, Sudêva drew
    Nearer, and said: "Vidarbhi, Nala's wife,
    I am the Bráhmana Sudêva, friend
    Unto my lord, thy brother, and I come
    By royal Bhima's mandate, seeking thee.
    That Maharaja, thy father, dwells in health;
    Thy mother and thy house are well; and well--
    With promise of long years--thy little ones,
    Sister and brother. Yet, for thy sake, Queen,
    Thy kindred sit as men with spirit gone;
    In search of thee a hundred twice-born rove
    Over all lands."
                     But (O King Yudhisthir!)
    Hardly one word she heard before she broke
    With question after question on the man,
    Asking of this dear friend and that and this;
    All mingled with quick tears, and tender sighs,
    And hungry gazing on her brother's friend,
    Sudêva--best of Bráhmanas--come there.
    Which soon Sunandâ marked, watching them speak
    Apart, and Damayanti all in tears.
    Then came she to her mother, saying: "See,
    The handmaid thou didst give me talks below
    With one who is a Bráhman, all her words
    Watered with weeping; if thou wilt, demand
    What this man knows."
                         Therewith swept forth amazed
    The mother of the Raja, and beheld
    How Nala's wife spake with the Bráhmana.
    Whom straight she bade them summon; and, being brought,
    In this wise questioned: "Knowest thou whose wife,
    Whose daughter, this one is; and how she left
    Her kin; and wherefore, being heavenly-eyed
    And noble-mannered, she hath wandered here?
    I am full fain to hear this; tell me all,
    No whit withholding; answer faithfully--
    Who is our slave-girl with the goddess gait?"
      The Bráhmana Sudêva, so addressed,
    Seating himself at ease, unto the Queen
    Told Damayanti's story, how all fell.
      Sudêva said: "There reigns in majesty
    King Bhima at Vidarbha; and of him
    The Princess Damayanti here is child;
    And Virasena's son, Nala, is Lord
    Over Nishadha, praised-in-song and wise;
    And of that Prince this lady is the wife.
    In play his brother worsted Nala--stripped
    Of lands and wealth the Prince; who fled his realm,
    Wandering with Damayanti--where, none knew.
    In quest of Damayanti we have roamed
    The earth's face o'er, until I found her here
    In thy son's house, the King's--the very same,
    Since like to her for grace no woman lives
    Of all fair women. Where her eyebrows meet
    A pretty mole, born with her, should be seen
    A little lotus-bud--not visible
    By reason of the dust of toil which clouds
    Her face and veils its moon-like beauty--that
    The wondrous Maker on the rare work stamped
    To be His Mark. But as the waxing moon
    Goes thin and darkling for awhile, then rounds
    The crescent's rims with splendors, so this Queen
    Hath lost not queenliness. Being now obscured,
    Soiled with the grime of chores, unbeautified,
    She shows true gold. The fire which trieth gold
    Denoteth less itself by instant heat
    Than Damayanti by her goodlihood.
    As first sight knew I her. She bears that mole."
      Whilst yet Sudêva spake (O King of men!),
    Sunandâ from the slave's front washed away
    The gathered dust, and forth that mark appeared
    'Twixt Damayanti's brows, as when clouds break,
    And in the sky the moon, the night-maker,
    Glitters to view. Seeing the spot awhile,
    Sunandâ and the mother of the King
    Gazed voiceless; then they clasped her neck and wept
    Rejoicing, till the Queen, staying her tears,
    Exclaimed: "My sister's daughter, dear! thou art,
    By this same mark. Thy mother and myself
    Were sisters by one father--he that rules
    Daśarna, King Sudâman. She was given
    To Bhima, and to Virabahu I.
    Once at Daśarna, in my father's house,
    I saw thee, newly born. Thy race and mine,
    Princess, are one: henceforward, therefore, here
    As I am, Damayanti, shalt thou be."
      With gladdened heart did Damayanti bend
    Before her mother's sister, answering thus:--
    "Peaceful and thankful dwelled I here with thee,
    Being unknown, my every need supplied,
    My life and honor by thy succor safe,
    Yet, Maharajni, even than this dear home
    One would be dearer: 'tis so many days
    Since we were parted. Suffer me to go
    Where those my tender little ones were led;
    So long--poor babes!--of me and of their sire
    Bereft. If, lady, thou dost think to show
    Kindness to me, this is my wish: to wend
    Unto Vidarbha swiftly; wilt thou bid
    They bear me thither?"
                           Was no sooner heard
    That fond desire, than the queen-mother gave
    Willing command; and soon an ample troop,
    The King consenting, gathered for her guard.
    So was she sent upon a palanquin,
    With soldiers, pole-bearers, and meat and drink,
    And garments as befitted--happier--home.
      Thus to Vidarbha came its Pride again,
    By no long road; and joyously her kin
    Brought the sweet Princess in, and welcomed her.
    In peace and safety all her house she found;
    Her children well;--father and mother, friends.
    The gods she worshipped, and to Bráhmanas
    Due reverence made, and whatso else was meet
    That Damayanti did, regal in all.
    To wise Sudêva fell the thousand cows
    By Bhima granted, with the village-lands,
    And goodly gifts beside.
                             But when there passed
    One night of rest within the palace-walls,
    The wistful Princess to her mother said:--
    "If thou wouldst have me live, I tell thee true,
    Dear mother, it must be by bringing back
    My Nala, my own lord; and only so."
      When this she spake, right sorrowful became
    The Rani, weeping silently, nor gave
    One word of answer; and the palace-girls,
    Seeing this grief, sat round them, weeping too,
    And crying: "Haha! where is gone her lord?"
    And loud the lamentation was of all.
      Afterwards to the Maharaja his Queen
    Told what was said: "Lord! all uncomforted
    Thy daughter Damayanti weeps and grieves,
    Lacking her husband. Even to me she spake
    Before our damsels, laying shame aside:--
    'Find Nala; let the people of the court
    Strive day and night to learn where Nala is.'"

    Then Bhima, hearing, called his Bráhmanas
    Patient and wise, and issued hest to go
    Into all regions, seeking for the Prince.
    But first, by mandate of the Maharaja,
    To Damayanti all those twice-born came,
    Saying: "Now we depart!" Then Bhima's child
    Gave ordinance: "To whatsoever lands
    Ye wend, say this--wherever gather men,
    Say this--in every place these verses speak:--

      Whither art thou departed, cruel lover,
        Who stole the half of thy belovèd's cloth,
      And left her to awaken, and discover
        The wrong thou wroughtest to the love of both?
      She, as thou didst command, a sad watch keepeth,
        With woful heart wearing the rended dress.
      Prince, hear her cry who thus forever weepeth;
        Be mindful, hero; comfort her distress!

    And, furthermore," the Princess said, "since fire
    Leaps into flame when the wind fans the spark,
    Be this too spoken, that his heart may burn:--

      By every husband nourished and protected
        Should every wife be. Think upon the wood!
      Why these thy duties hast thou so neglected,
        Prince, that was called noble and true and good?
      Art then become compassionate no longer,
        Shunning, perchance, my fortune's broken way?
      Ah, husband, love is most! let love be stronger;
        Ahimsa paro dharma,[25] thou didst say.

    These verses while ye speak," quoth the Princess,
    "Should any man make answer, note him well
    In any place; and who he is, and where
    He dwells. And if one listens to these words
    Intently, and shall so reply to them,
    Good Bráhmans, hold ye fast his speech, and bring,
    Breath by breath, all of it unto me here;
    But so that he shall know not whence ye speak,
    If ye go back. Do this unweariedly;
    And if one answer--be he high or low,
    Wealthy or poor--learn all he was and is,
    And what he would."
                        Hereby enjoined, they went,
    Those twice-born, into all the lands to seek
    Prince Nala in his loneliness. Through towns,
    Cities and villages, hamlets and camps,
    By shepherds' huts and hermits' caves, they passed,
    Searching for Nala; yet they found him not;
    Albeit in every region (O my king!)
    The words of Damayanti, as she taught,
    Spake they again in hearing of all men.
      Suddenly--after many days--there came
    A Bráhman back, Parnâda he was called,
    Who unto Bhima's child in this wise spake:--
    "O Damayanti, seeking Nala still,
    Ayodhyâ's streets I entered, where I saw
    The Maharaja; he--noble-minded one!--
    Heard me thy verses say, as thou hadst said;
    Great Rituparna heard those very words,
    Excellent Princess; but he answered nought;
    And no man answered, out of all the throng
    Ofttimes addressed. But when I had my leave
    And was withdrawn, a man accosted me
    Privately--one of Rituparna's train,
    Vahûka named, the Raja's charioteer
    (Something misshapen, with a shrunken arm,
    But skilled in driving, very dexterous
    In cookery and sweetmeats). He--with groans,
    And tears which rolled and rolled--asked of my health,
    And then these verses spake full wistfully:--

      'Even when their loss is largest, noble ladies
        Keep the true treasure of their hearts unspent,
      Attaining heaven through faith, which undismayed is
        By wrong, unaltered by abandonment;
      Such an one guards with virtue's golden shield
        Her name from harm; pious and pure and tender;
      And, though her lord forsook her, will not yield
        To wrath, even against that vile offender--
      Even against the ruined, rash, ungrateful,
        Faithless, fond Prince from whom the birds did steal
      His only cloth, whom now a penance fateful
        Dooms to sad days, that dark-eyed will not feel
      Anger; for if she saw him she should see
        A man consumed with grief and loss and shame;
      Ill or well lodged, ever in misery,
        Her unthroned lord, a slave without a name.'

    Such words I heard him speak," Parnâda said,
    "And, hastening thence, I tell them to thee, here;
    Thou knowest; thou wilt judge; make the King know."
    But Damayanti listened, with great eyes
    Welling quick tears, while thus Parnâda spake,
    And afterwards crept secretly and said
    Unto her mother: "Breathe no word hereof,
    Dear mother, to the King, but let me speak
    With wise Sudêva in thy presence here;
    Nothing should Bhima know of what I plan,
    But, if thou lovest me, by thee and me
    This shall be wrought. As I was safely led
    By good Sudêva home, so let him go--
    With not less happy fortune--to bring back,
    Ere many days, my Nala; let him seek
    Ayodhyâ, mother dear, and fetch my Prince!"
      But first Parnâda, resting from his road--
    That best of twice-borns--did the Princess thank
    With honorable words and gifts: "If home
    My Nala cometh, Bráhman!" so she spake,
    "Great guerdon will I give. Thou hast well done
    For me herein--- better than any man;
    Helping me find again my wandered lord."
    To which fair words made soft reply, and prayers
    For "peace and fortune," that high-minded one,
    And so passed home, his service being wrought.
      Next to Sudêva spake the sad Princess
    This (O my King!), her mother standing by:--
    "Good Bráhman, to Ayodhyâ's city go.
    Say in the ears of Raja Rituparna,
    As though thou cam'st a simple traveller,
    'The daughter of King Bhima once again
    Maketh to hold her high Swayamvara.
    The kings and princes from all lands repair
    Thither; the time draws nigh; to-morrow's dawn
    Shall bring the day. If thou wouldst be of it,
    Speed quickly, conquering King! at sunsetting
    Another lord she chooseth for herself;
    Since whether Nala liveth or is dead,
    None knoweth.'"
                    These the words which he should say;
    And, learning them, he sped, and thither came--
    That Bráhmana Sudêva--and he spake
    To Maharaja Rituparna so.
      Now when the Raja Rituparna heard
    Sudêva's words, quoth he to Vahûka
    Full pleasantly: "Much mind I have to go
    Where Damayanti holds Swayamvara,
    If to Vidarbha, in a single day,
    Thou deemest we might drive, my charioteer!"
      Of Nala, by his Raja thus addressed,
    Torn was the heart with anguish; for he thought:--
    "Can Damayanti purpose this? Could grief
    So change her? Is it not some fine device
    For my sake schemed? Or doth my Princess seek,
    All holy as she was, this guilty joy,
    Being so wronged of me, her rash weak lord?
    Frail is a woman's heart, and my fault great!
    Thus might she do it, being far from home,
    Bereft of friends, desolate with long woes
    Of love for me--my slender-waisted one!
    Yet no, no, no! she would not--she that is
    My children's mother! Be it false or true,
    Best shall I know in going; therefore now
    The will of Rituparna must I serve."
      Thus pondering in his mind, the troubled Prince
    With joined palms meekly to his master said:--
    "I shall thy hest accomplish! I can drive
    In one day, Raja, to Vidarbha's gates."
      Then in the royal stables--steed by steed,
    Stallions and mares, Vahûka scanned them all,
    By Rituparna prayed quickly to choose.
    Slowly he picked four coursers, under-fleshed,
    But big of bone and sinew; fetlocked well
    For journeying; high-bred, heavy-framed; of blood
    To match the best, yet gentle; blemish-free;
    Broad in the jaw, with scarlet nostrils spread;
    Bearing the Avarthas, the ten true marks--
    Reared on the banks of Indus, swift as wind.
    Which, when the Raja looked upon, he cried,
    Half-wrathful: "What thing thinkest thou to do?
    Wilt thou betray me? How should sorry beasts,
    Lean-ribbed and ragged, take us all that way,
    The long road we must swiftly travel hence?"
      Vahûka answered: "See on all these four
    The ten sure marks: one curl upon each crest,
    Two on the cheeks, two upon either flank,
    Two on the breast, and on each crupper one.[26]
    These to Vidarbha--doubt it not--will go;
    Yet, Raja, if thou wilt have others, speak;
    And I shall yoke them."
                            Rituparna said:--
    "I know thou hast deep skill in stable-craft;
    Yoke therefore such four coursers as thou wilt,
    But quickly!"
                  Thus those horses, two by two,
    High-mettled, spare, and strong, Prince Nala put
    Under the bars; and when the car was hitched,
    And eagerly the Raja made to mount,
    At sign the coursers bent their knees, and lay
    Along the earth. Then Nala (O my King!),
    With kindly voice cheering the gaunt bright steeds,
    Loosed them, and grasped the reins, and bade ascend
    Varshneya: so he started, headlong, forth.
      At cry of Vahûka the four steeds sprung
    Into the air, as they would fly with him;
    And when the Raja felt them, fleet as wind,
    Whirling along, mute sat he and amazed;
    And much Varshneya mused to hear and see
    The thundering of those wheels; the fiery four
    So lightly held; Vahûka's matchless art.
    "Is Mâtali, who driveth Indra's car,
    Our charioteer? for all the marks of him
    Are here! or Sâlihotra can this be,
    The god of horses, knowing all their ways,
    Who here in mortal form his greatness hides?
    Or is it--can it be--Nala the Prince,
    Nala the steed-tamer?" Thus pondered he:--
    "Whatever Nala knew this one doth know.
    Alike the mastery seems of both; alike
    I judge their years. If this man be not he,
    Two Nalas are there in the world for skill.
    They say there wander mighty powers on earth
    In strange disguises, who, divinely sprung,
    Veil themselves from us under human mould;
    Bewilderment it brings me, this his shape
    Misshappen--from conclusion that alone
    Withholds me; yet I wist not what to think,
    In age and manner like--and so unlike
    In form! Else Vahûka I must have deemed
    Nala, with Nala's gifts."
                              So in his heart,
    Varshneya, watching, wondered--being himself
    The second charioteer. But Rituparna
    Sat joyous with the speed, delightedly
    Marking the driving of the Prince: the eyes
    Attent; the hand so firm upon the reins;
    The skill so quiet, wise, and masterful;
    Great joy the Maharaja had to see.
      By stream and mountain, woodland-path and pool,
    Swiftly, like birds that skim in air, they sped;
    Till, as the chariot plunged, the Raja saw
    His shoulder-mantle falling to the ground;
    And--loath to lose the robe--albeit so pressed,
    To Nala cried he, "Let me take it up;
    Check the swift horses, wondrous charioteer;
    And bid Varshneya light, and fetch my cloth,"
    But Nala answered: "Far it lies behind;
    A yojana already we have passed;
    We cannot turn again to pick it up."
      A little onward Riturparna saw
    Within the wood a tall Myrobolan
    Heavy with fruit; hereat, eager he cried:--
    "Now, Vahûka, my skill thou mayest behold
    In the Arithmic. All arts no man knows;
    Each hath his wisdom, but in one man's wit
    Is perfect gift of one thing, and not more.
    From yonder tree how many leaves and fruits,
    Think'st thou, lie fall'n there upon the earth?
    Just one above a thousand of the leaves,
    And one above a hundred of the fruits;
    And on those two limbs hang, of dancing leaves,
    Five crores exact; and shouldst thou pluck yon boughs
    Together with their shoots, on those twain boughs
    Swing twice a thousand nuts and ninety-five!"
      Vahûka checked the chariot wonderingly,
    And answered: "Imperceptible to me
    Is what thou boastest, slayer of thy foes!
    But I to proof will put it, hewing down
    The tree, and, having counted, I shall know.
    Before thine eyes the branches twain I'll lop:
    How prove thee, Maharaja, otherwise,
    Whether this be or be not? I will count
    One by one--fruits and leaves--before thee, King;
    Varshneya, for a space, can rein the steeds."
      To him replied the Raja: "Time is none
    Now to delay."
                    Vahûka answered quick
    (His own set purpose serving): "Stay this space,
    Or by thyself drive on! The road is good,
    The son of Vrishni will be charioteer!"
      On that the Raja answered soothingly:--
    "There is not in the earth another man
    That hath thy skill; and by thy skill I look
    To reach Vidarbha, O thou steed-tamer!
    Thou art my trust; make thou not hindrance now!
    Yet would I suffer, too, what thou dost ask,
    If thou couldst surely reach Vidarbha's gate
    Before yon sun hath sunk."
                               Nala replied:--
    "When I have counted those vibhîtak boughs,
    Vidarbha I will reach; now keep thy word."
      Ill pleased, the Raja said: "Halt then, and count!
    Take one bough from the branch which I shall show,
    And tell its fruits, and satisfy thy soul."
      So leaping from the car--eager he shore
    The boughs, and counted; and all wonder-struck
    To Rituparna spake: "Lo, as thou saidst
    So many fruits there be upon this bough!
    Exceeding marvellous is this thy gift,
    I burn to know such learning, how it comes."
      Answered the Raja, for his journey fain:--
    "My mind is quick with numbers, skilled to count;
    I have the science."
                         "Give it me, dear Lord!"
    Vahûka cried: "teach me, I pray, this lore,
    And take from me my skill in horse-taming."
      Quoth Rituparna--impatient to proceed--
    Yet of such skill desirous: "Be it so!
    As thou hast prayed, receive my secret art,
    Exchanging with me here thy mastery
    Of horses."
                Thereupon did he impart
    His rules of numbers, taking Nala's too.
      But wonderful! So soon as Nala knew
    That hidden gift, the accursed Kali leapt
    Forth from his breast, the evil spirit's mouth
    Spewing the poison of Karkôtaka
    Even as he issued. From the afflicted Prince
    That bitter plague of Kali passed away;
    And for a space Prince Nala lost himself,
    Rent by the agony. But when he saw
    The evil one take visible shape again--
    Free from the serpent's poison--Nishadha's Lord
    Had thought to curse him then; but Kali stood
    With clasped palms trembling, and besought the Prince,
    Saying: "Thy wrath restrain, Sovereign of men!
    I will repay thee well. Thy virtuous wife,
    Indrasen's angered mother, laid her ban
    Upon me when thou didst forsake her; since
    Within thee have I dwelled in anguish sore,
    Tortured and tossed and burning, night and day,
    With venom from the great snake's fang, which passed
    Into me by thy blood. Be pitiful!
    I take my refuge in thy mercy! Hear
    My promise, Prince! Wherever men henceforth
    Shall name thee before people, praising thee,
    This shall protect them from the dread of me;
    Nala shall guard from Kali, if so now
    Thou spare to curse me, seeking grace of thee."
      Thus supplicated, Nala stayed his wrath,
    Acceding; and the direful Kali fled
    Into the wounded tree, possessing it.
    But of no eyes, save Nala's, was he seen,
    Nor heard of any other; and the Prince,
    His sorrows shaking off, when Kali passed,
    After that numbering of the leaves, in joy
    Unspeakable, and glowing with new hope,
    Mounted the car again, and urged his steeds.
    But from that hour the tall Myrobolan,
    Possessed by Kali, stood there, sear and dead.
      Then onward, onward, speeding like the birds,
    Those coursers flew; and fast and faster still
    The glad Prince cheered them forward, all elate:
    And proudly rode the Raja towards the walls
    Of high Vidarbha. Thus did journey down
    Exultant Nala, free of trouble now,
    Quit of the evil spell, but bearing still
    His form misshapen, and the shrunken limb.
      At sunset in Vidarbha (O great King!)
    The watchers on the walls proclaimed, "There comes
    The Raja Rituparna!" Bhima bade
    Open the gates; and thus they entered in,
    Making all quarters of the city shake
    With rattling of the chariot-wheels. But when
    The horses of Prince Nala heard that sound,
    For joy they neighed, as when of old their lord
    Drew nigh. And Damayanti, in her bower,
    Far off that rattling of the chariot heard,
    As when at time of rains is heard the voice
    Of clouds low thundering; and her bosom thrilled
    At echo of that ringing sound. It came
    Loud and more loud, like Nala's, when of old,
    Gripping the reins, he cheered his mares along.
    It seemed like Nala to the Princess then--
    That clatter of the trampling of the hoofs;
    It seemed like Nala to the stabled steeds:
    Upon the palace-roof the peacocks heard
    And screamed; the elephants within their stalls
    Heard it and trumpeted; the coursers, tied,
    Snorted for joy to hear that leaping car;
      Peacocks and elephants and cattle stalled
    All called and clamored with uplifted heads,
    As wild things do at noise of coming rain.
      Then to herself the Princess spake: "This car,
    The rolling of it, echoing all around,
    Gladdens my heart. It must be Nala comes,
    My King of men! If I see not, this day,
    My Prince that hath the bright and moon-like face,
    My hero of unnumbered gifts, my lord,
    Ah, I shall die! If this day fall I not
    Into his opening arms--at last, at last--
    And feel his close embrace, oh, beyond doubt,
    I cannot live! If--ending all--to-day
    Nishadha cometh not, with this deep sound
    Like far-off thunder, then to-night I'll leap
    Into the golden, flickering, fiery flames!
    If now, now, now, my lion draws not nigh,
    My warrior-love, like the wild elephant,
    My Prince of princes--I shall surely die!
    Nought call I now to mind he said or did
    That was not rightly said and justly done.
    No idle word he spake, even in free speech;
    Patient and lordly; generous to bestow
    Beyond all givers; scorning to be base,
    Yea, even in secret--such Nishadha was.
    Alas! when, day and night, I think of him,
    How is my heart consumed, reft of its joy!"
      So meditating, like one torn by thoughts,
    She mounted to the palace-roof to see;
    And thence, in the mid-court, the car beheld
    Arriving. Rituparna and Vahûka
    She saw, with Vrishni's son, descend and loose
    The panting horses, wheeling back the car.
      Then Rituparna, alighting, sought the King,
    Bhima the Maharaja, far-renowned--
    Whom Bhima with fair courtesies received;
    Since well he deemed such breathless visit made
    With deep cause, knowing not the women's plots.
    "Swâgatam!" cried he; "what hath brought thee, Prince?"
    For nothing wist he that the Raja came
    Suitor of Damayanti. Questioned so,
    This Raja Rituparna, wise and brave,
    Seeing no kings nor princes in the court,
    Nor noise of the Swayamvara, nor crowd
    Of Bráhmans gathering--weighing all those things,
    Answered in this wise: "I am come, great Lord,
    To make thee salutations!" But the King
    Laughed in his beard at Rituparna's word--
    That this of many weary yojanas
    Should be the mark. "Ahoswid! Hath he passed
    Through twenty towns," thought he, "and hither flown
    To bid good-morrow? Nay, it is not that.
    Good! I shall know it when he bids me know."
      Thereat, with friendly speech his noble guest
    The King to rest dismissed. "Repose thyself,"
    He said; "the road was long; weary thou art."
    And Rituparna, with sentences of grace
    Replying to this graciousness, was led
    By slaves to the allotted sleeping-room;
    And after Rituparna, Varshneya went.
    Vahûka, left alone, the chariot ran
    Into its shed, and from the foamy steeds
    Unbuckled all the harness, thong by thong,
    Speaking soft words to them; then sat him down,
    Alone, forgotten, on the driving-seat.
      But Damayanti, seeing Rituparna,
    And Vrishni's son, and him called Vahûka,
    Spake sorrowful: "Whose was the thunder, then,
    Of that fleet car? It seemed like Nala's own;
    Yet here I see no Nala! Hath yon man
    My lord's art learned, or th'other one, that thus
    Their car should thunder as when Nala comes?
    Could Rituparna drive as Nala doth,
    So that those chariot-wheels should sound like his?"
    And, after having pondered (O my King!),
    The beauteous Princess sent her handmaiden
    To Vahûka, that she might question him.
      "Go, Keshinî," the Princess said; "inquire
    Who is that man upon the driving-seat,
    Misshapen, with the shrunken arm. Approach
    Composedly, question him winningly
    With greetings kind, and bid him answer thee
    According to the truth. I feel at heart
    A doubt--a hope--that this, perchance, may be
    My Lord and Prince; there is some new-born joy
    Fluttering within my breast. Accost him, girl;
    And, ere thou partest, what Parnâda said,
    Say thou, and hear him answer, blameless one,
    And bring it on thy lips!"
                                Then went the maid
    Demurely, and accosted Vahûka,
    While Damayanti watched them from the roof.
      "Kushalam tê bravîmi--health and peace
    I wish thee!" said she. "Wilt thou answer true
    What Damayanti asks? She sends to ask
    Whence set ye forth, and wherefore are ye come
    Hither? Vidarbha's Princess fain would know."
      "'Twas told my Raja," Vahûka replied,
    "That Damayanti for the second turn
    Holds her Swayamvara: the Bráhman's word
    Was, "This shall be to-morrow." So he sped,
    Hearing that news, with steeds which in one day
    Fly fifty yojanas, swift as the winds,
    Exceeding fleet. His charioteer am I."
      "Who, then," Keshinî asked, "is he that rode
    The third? whence cometh he, and what his race?
    And thou thyself whence sprung? and tell me why
    Thou servest thus?"
                          Then Vahûka replied:--
    "Varshneya is the third who rode with us,
    The famous charioteer of Nala he:
    When thy Prince fled, he went to Koshala
    And took our service. I in horse-taming
    And dressing meat have skill; so am I made
    King Rituparna's driver and his cook."
      "Knoweth Varshneya, then, where Nala fled?"
    Inquired the maid; "and did he tell thee this,
    Or what spake he?"
                      "Of that unhappy Prince
    He brought the children hither, and then went
    Even where he would, of Nala wotting nought;
    Nor wotteth any man, fair damsel! more.
    Hidden from mortal eyes Nishadha lives,
    Wandering the world, his very body changed.
    Of Nala only Nala's own heart knows,
    And by no sign doth he bewray himself."
      Keshinî said: "That Bráhman who did wend
    First to Ayodhyâ bore a verse to say
    Over and over, everywhere--strange words,
    Wove by a woman's wit.
    Some gentle speech! Say it again--the Queen,
    My peerless mistress, fain would know from me.
    Nay, on thy faith, when thou didst hear that man,
    What was it thou replied? She would know."

      Speaking these verses, woful Nala moaned,
    And, overcome by thought, restrained no more
    His trickling tears; fast broke they forth (O King!).
    But Keshinî, returning, told his words
    To Damayanti, and the grief of him.
      When Damayanti heard, sore-troubled still,
    Yet in her heart supposing him her Prince,
    Again she spake: "Go, Kashinî, and watch
    Whatever this man doeth; near him stand,
    Holding thy peace, and mark the ways of him
    And all his acts, going and coming; note
    If aught there be of strange in any deed.
    Let them not give him fire, my girl--not though
    This hindereth sore; nor water, though he ask
    Even with beseeching. Afterwards observe,
    And bring me what befalls, and every sign
    Of earthly or unearthly power he shows;
    And whatsoever else Vahûka doth,
    See it, and say."
                    Thereon Keshinî sped,
    Obeying Damayanti and--at hand--
    Whatever by that horse-tamer was wrought,
    The damsel watched, and all his ways; and came
    Back to the Princess, unto whom she told
    Each thing Vahûka did, as it befell,
    And what the signs were, and the wondrous works
    Of earthly and unearthly gifts in him.
      "Subhê!"[27] quoth she, "the man is magical,
    But high and holy mannered; never yet
    Saw I another such, nor heard of him.
    Passing the low door of the inner court,
    Where one must stoop, he did not bow his head,
    But as he came the lintel lifted up
    And gave him space. Bhima the King had sent
    Many and diverse meats for Rituparna,
    Of beast and bird and fish--great store of food--
    The which to cleanse some chatties stood hard by,
    All empty; yet he did but look on them,
    Wishful, and lo! the water brimmed the pots.
    Then, having washed the meats, he hastened forth
    In quest of fire, and, holding towards the sun
    A knot of withered grass, the bright flame blazed
    Instant amidst it. Wonderstruck was I
    This miracle to see, and hither ran
    With other strangest marvels to impart:--
    For, Princess, when he touched the blazing grass
    He was not burned, and water flows for him
    At will, or ceases flowing; and this, too,
    The strangest thing of all, did I behold--
    He took some faded leaves and flowers up,
    And idly handled them; but while his hands
    Toyed with them, lo! they blossomed forth again
    With lovelier life than ever, and fresh scent,
    Straight on their stalks. These marvels have I seen,
    And fly back now to tell thee, mistress dear!"
      But when she knew such wonders of the man,
    More certainly she deemed those acts and gifts
    Betokened Nala; and so-minded, full
    Of trust to find her lord in Vahûka,
    With happier tears and softening voice she said
    To Keshinî: "Speed yet again, my girl;
    And, while he wots not, from the kitchen take
    Meat he hath dressed, and bring it here to me."
    So went the maid, and, waiting secretly,
    Broke from the mess a morsel, hot and spiced,
    And, bearing it with faithful swiftness, gave
    To Damayanti. She (O Kuru King!)--
    That knew so well the dishes dressed by him--
    Touched, tasted it, and, laughing--weeping--cried,
    Beside herself with joy: "Yes, yes; 'tis he!
    That charioteer is Nala!" then, a-pant,
    Even while she washed her mouth, she bade the maid
    Go with the children twain to Vahûka;
    Who, when he saw his little Indrasen
    And Indrasena, started up, and ran,
    And caught, and folded them upon his breast;
    Holding them there, his darlings, each as fair
    As children of the gods. Then, quite undone
    With love and yearning, loudly sobbed the Prince.
      Until, perceiving Keshinî, who watched,
    Shamed to be known, he set his children down,
    And said: "In sooth, good friend, this lovely pair
    So like mine own are, that at seeing them
    I am surprised into these foolish tears.
    Thou comest here too often; men will think
    Thee light, or me; remember, we are here,
    Strangers and guests, girl! Go thy ways in peace!"
      But seeing that great trouble of his soul,
    Lightly came Keshinî, and pictured all
    To Damayanti. She, burning to know
    If truly this were Nala, bade the girl
    Seek the Queen's presence, saying thus for her:--
    "Mother! long watching Vahûka, I deem
    The charioteer is Nala. One doubt lives--
    His altered form. I must myself have speech
    With Vahûka; thou, therefore, bid him come,
    Or suffer me to seek him. Be this done
    Forthwith, good mother!--whether known or not
    Unto the Maharaja."
                        When she heard,
    The Queen told Bhima what the Princess prayed,
    Who gave consent; and having this good leave
    From father and from mother (O my King!),
    Command was sent that Vahûka be brought
    Where the court ladies lodged.
                                  So met those twain;
    And when Prince Nala's gaze fell on his wife,
    He stood with beating heart and tearful eyes.
    And when sweet Damayanti looked on him,
    She could not speak for anguish of keen joy
    To have him close; but sat there, mute and wan,
    Wearing a sad-hued cloth, her lustrous hair
    Falling unbanded, and the mourning-mark
    Stamped in gray ashes on her lovely brow.
    And, when she found a voice, these were the words
    That came from her: "Didst ever, Vahûka--
    If Vahûka thy name be, as thou say'st--
    Know one of noble nature, honorable,
    Who in the wild woods left his wife asleep--
    His innocent, fond wife--weary and worn?
    Know'st thou the man. I'll say his name to thee;
    'Twas Nala, Raja Nala! Ah, and when
    In any thoughtless hour had I once wrought
    The smallest wrong, that he should leave me so,
    There in the wood, by slumber overcome?
    Before the gods I chose him for my lord,
    The gods themselves rejecting; tell me how
    This Prince could so abandon, in her need,
    His true, his loving wife, she who did bear
    His babes--abandon her to whom he swore--
    My hand clasped, in the sight of all the gods,
    And Agni's self--'Thy true lord I will be!'
    Thou saidst it!--where is now that promise, fled?"
      While thus she spake (O Victor of thy foes!),
    Fast from her eyes the woe-sprung waters ran.
    And Nala, seeing those night-black, loving eyes
    Reddened with weeping, seeing her falling tears;
    Broke forth: "Ah! that I lost my throne and realm
    In dicing, was not done by fault of mine;
    'T was Kali wrought it; Kali, O my wife,
    Drove me to leave thee. Therefore, long ago
    That evil one was stricken by the curse
    Which thou didst utter, wandering in the wood,
    Desolate, night and day, grieving for me.
    Possessing me he dwelt; but, cursed by thee,
    Tortured he dwelt, consuming with thy words
    In fierce and fiercer pain, as when is piled
    Brand upon burning brand. But he is gone;
    Patience and penance have o'ermastered him.
    Princess, the end is reached of our long woes.
    That evil one being fled, freeing my will,
    See, I am here; and wherefore would I come,
    Fairest, except for thee? Yet, answer this:--
    How should a wife, right-minded to her lord--
    Her own and lawful lord--compass to choose
    Another love, as thou, that tremblest, didst?
    Thy messengers over all regions ran,
    By the King's name proclaiming: 'Bhima's child
    A second husband chooseth for herself,
    Whomso she will--as pleaseth--being free,'
    Those shameless tidings brought the Raja here
    At headlong speed--and me!"
                                 Tenderly smiled
    Damayanti through her tears, with quivering lips,
    And joined palms, answering her aggrievèd Prince:--
    "Judgest thou me guilty of such a sin?
    When for thy sake I put the gods aside--
    Thee did I choose, Nishadha, my one lord.
    In quest of thee did all those Bráhmans range
    In all ten regions, telling all one tale
    Taught them by me; and so Parnâda came
    To Koshala, where Rituparna dwells,
    And found thee in his house, and spake to thee
    Those words, and had thy gentle answer back.
    Mine the device was, Prince, to bring thee quick;
    For well I wist no man in all this world
    Could in one day the fleetest coursers urge
    So many yojanas, save thou, dear Prince!
    I touch thy feet, and tell thee this in truth;
    And true it is that never any wrong
    Against thee, even in fancy, have I dreamed.
    Witness for me, as I am loyal and pure,
    The ever-shifting, all-beholding Air,
    Who wanders o'er the earth; let him withdraw
    My breath and slay me, if I sinned in aught!
    Witness for me, yon golden Sun who goes
    With bright eye over us; let him withhold
    Warm life and kill me, if I sinned in aught!
    Witness for me the white Moon, whose pale spell
    Lies on all flesh and spirit; let that orb
    Deny me peace and end me, if I sinned!
    These be the watchers and the testifiers,
    The three chief gods that rule the three wide worlds;
    I cry unto them; let them speak for me;
    And thou shalt hear them answer for my faith,
    Or once again, this day, abandon me."
      Then Vayu showed--the all-enfolding Air--
    And spake: "Not one wrong hath she wrought thee, Prince,
    I tell thee sooth. The treasure of her truth
    Faultless and undefiled she hath kept
    By us regarded, and sustained by us,
    These many days. Her tender plot it was,
    Planned for thy sake, which brought thee; since who else
    Could in one day drive threescore yojanas?
    Nala, thou hast thy noble wife again;
    Thou, Damayanti, hast thy Nala back.
    Away with doubting; take her to thy breast,
    Thrice happy Prince!"
                          And while God Vayu spake,
    Look! there showered flowers down out of the sky[28]
    Upon them; and the drums of heaven beat
    Beautiful music, and a gentle wind,
    Fragrant, propitious, floated, kissing them.
    But Nala, when he saw these things befall--
    Wonderful, gracious--when he heard that voice
    Called the great snake to memory:--whereupon
    His proper self returned. Bhima's fair child
    Divinely sounding (Lord of Bhârat's line!)--
    Yielded all doubt of his delightful Love.
    Then cast he round about his neck the cloth--
    Unstained by earth, enchanted--and (O King!)
    Saw her dear lord his beauteous form resume.
    "Ah, Nala! Nala!" cried she, while her arms
    Clasped him and clung; and Nala to his heart
    Pressed that bright lady, glowing, as of old,
    With princely majesty. Their children twain
    Next he caressed; while she--at happy peace--
    Her beautiful glad face laid on his breast,
    Sighing with too much joy. And Nala stood
    A great space silent, gazing on her face,
    Sorrow-stamped yet, her long, deep-lidded eyes,
    Her melting smile--himself 'twixt joy and woe.
      Afterwards, all that story of the Prince,
    And all of Damayanti, Bhima's Queen
    Told to the Maharaja joyously.
    And Bhima said: "To-morrow will I see--
    When Nala hath his needful offerings made--
    Our daughter and this wandering lord well knit."
      But all that night they sat, hand clasped in hand,
    Rejoicing, and relating what befell
    In the wild wood, and of the woful times.
      That night being spent, Prince Nala in his state
    Led forth Vidarbha's Pride before the court.
    And Bhima--in an hour found fortunate--
    Re-wed those married lovers. Dutifully
    Nala paid homage to the Maharaja,
    And reverently did Damayanti bow
    Before her father. He the Prince received
    With grace and gladness, as a son restored,
    Making fair welcome, and with words of praise
    Exalting Damayanti, tried and true;
    Which in all dignity Prince Nala took,
    Returning, as was meet, words honorable.
    Therewith unto the city spread the noise
    Of that rejoicing. All the townspeople,
    Learning of Nala joyously returned,
    Made all their quarters gay with float of flags,
    Flutter of cloths, and garlands; sprinkled free
    The King's-ways with fresh water, and the cups
    Of fragrant flowers; and hung long wreaths of flowers.
    From door to door the white street-fronts before;
    And decked each temple-porch, and went about
    The altar-gods.
    And afterwards, in Bhima's royal house
    Serenely dwelled the Princess and the Prince,
    Each making for the other peaceful joy.
    So in the fourth year Nala was rejoined
    To Damayanti, comforted and free,
    Restful, attained, tasting delights again.
    Also the glad Princess, gaining her lord,
    Laid sorrows by, and blossomed forth anew,
    As doth the laughing earth when the rain falls,
    And brings her unseen, waiting wonders forth
    Of blade and flower and fruit. The ache was gone,
    The loneliness and load. Heart-full of ease,
    Lovelier she grew and brighter, like the moon
    Mounting at midnight in the cloudless blue.
                    When Rituparna heard
    How Vahûka is Nala in disguise,
    And of the meeting, right rejoiced at heart
    That Raja grew. And, being softly prayed
    By Nala favorable thought, the King
    Made royal and gentle answer, with like grace
    By Nala met. To whom spake Rituparna:--
    "Joy go with thee and her, happily joined.
    But say, Nishadha, wrought I any jot
    Wrongful to thee, whilst sojourning unknown
    Within my walls? If any word or deed,
    Purposed or purposeless, hath vexed thee, friend,
    For one and all thy pardon grant to me!"
      And Nala answered: "Never act or word,
    The smallest, Raja, lingers to excuse!
    If this were otherwise, thy slave was I,
    And might not question, but must pardon thee.
    Yet good to me thou wert, princely and just,
    And kind thou art; and friendly from this time
    Deign thou to be. Happily was I lodged,
    Well-tended, well-befriended in thy house;
    In mine own palace never better stead.
    The skill in steeds which pleased thee, that is mine,
    And, Raja, I will give it all to thee,
    If thou art minded."
                         So Nishadha gave
    All his great gift in horses to the King,
    Who learned each rule approved, and ordinance;
    And, having all this knowledge, gave in turn
    His deepest lore of numbers and the dice
    To Nala, afterwards departing home
    To his own place, another charioteer
    Driving his steeds; and, Rituparna gone,
    Not long did Nala dwell in Bhima's town.
      When one moon he had tarried, taking leave,
    Nishadha to his city started forth
    With chosen train. A shining car he drove;
    And elephants sixteen, and fifty horse,
    And footmen thirty-score came in the rear.
    Swiftly did Nala journey, making earth
    Quake 'neath his flying car; and wrathfully
    With quick steps entered he his palace doors.
    The son of Virasena, Nala, stood
    Once more before that gamester Pushkara!
    Spake he: "Play yet again; much wealth is mine,
    And that, and all I have--yea, my Princess--
    Set I for stakes: set thou this realm, and throw!
    My mind is fixed a second chance to try,
    Where, Pushkara, we will play for all or none.
    Who wins his throne and treasures from a prince,
    Must stand the hazard of the counter-cast--
    This is the accepted law. If thou dost blench,
    The next game we will play is 'life or death,'
    In chariot-fight; when, or of thee or me
    One shall lie satisfied: 'Descended realms,
    By whatsoever means, are to be sought,'
    The sages say, 'by whatsoever won.'
    Choose, therefore, Pushkara, which way of these
    Shall please thee; either meet me with the dice,
    Or with thy bow confront me in the field."
      When Pushkara this heard, lightly he smiled,
    Concluding victory sure; and to the Prince
    Answered, exulting: "Dishtya! hast thou gained
    Stakes for a counter-game, Nishadha, now?
    Dishtya! shall I have my hard-won prize,
    Sweet Damayanti? Dishtya! didst thou come
    In kissing-reach again of thy fair wife?
    Soon, in thy new gold splendid, she shall shine
    Before all men beside me, as in heaven
    On Sakra waits the loveliest Apsarâ.
    See, now, I thought on thee, I looked for thee,
    Ever and ever, Prince. There is no joy
    Like casting in the game with such as thee.
    And when to-day I win thy blameless one--
    The smooth-limbed Damayanti--then shall be
    What was to be: and I can rest content,
    For always in my heart her beauty burns."
      Listening the idle talk that babbler poured,
    Angry Prince Nala fain had lopped away
    His head with vengeful khudga;[29] but, unmoved,
    Albeit the wrath blazed in his bloodshot eyes,
    He made reply: "Play! mock me not with jests;
    Thou wilt not jest when I have cast with thee!"
      So was the game set, and the Princes threw
    Nala and Pushkara, and--the numbers named--
    By Nala was the hazard gained: he swept
    His brother's stake, gems, treasure, kingdom, off;
    At one stroke all that mighty venture won.
      Then quoth the conquering Prince to Pushkara,
    Scornfully smiling: "Mine is now once more
    Nishadha's throne; mine is the realm again,
    Its curse plucked forth; Vidarbha's glory thou,
    Outcast, shalt ne'er so much as look upon!
    Fool! who to-day becom'st her bond and slave.
    Not by thy gifts that evil stroke was wrought
    Wherefrom I fled before; 'twas Kali's spell--
    Albeit thou knew'st nought, fool--overmastered me;
    Yet will I visit not in wrathful wise
    My wrong on thee; live as thou wilt; I grant
    Wherewith to live, and set apart henceforth
    Thy proper goods and substance, and fit food.
    Nay, doubt not I shall show thee favor, too,
    And be in friendship with thee, if thou wilt,
    Who art my brother. Peace abide with thee!"
      Thus all-victorious Nala comforted
    His brother, and embraced him, sending him
    In honor to his town; and Pushkara--
    Gently entreated--to Nishadha spake,
    With folded palms and humbled face, these words:--
    "Unending be thy glory. May thy bliss
    Last and increase for twice five thousand years,
    Who grantest me wherewith to live, just Lord!
    And where to dwell." Thereafter, well bested,
    Pushkara sojourned with the Prince one moon;
    So to his town departed--heart-content--
    With slaves and foot-soldiers and followers,
    Gay as a rising sun (O Bhârat's glory!).
    Thus sent he Pushkara, rich and safe, away.
    Then, with flags and drums and jewels, robed and royally arrayed,
    Nala into fair Nishadha entry high and dazzling made;
    At the gates the Raja, halting, spake his people words of love;
    Gathered were they from the city, gathered from the field and grove;
    From the mountain and the maidan, all a-thrill with joy to see
    Nala come to guard his children. "Happy now our days will be,"
    Said the townsfolk, said the elders, said the villagers, "O King!"
    Standing all with palms upfolded: "Peace and fortune thou wilt bring
    To thy city, to thy country! Boundless welcome do we give,
    As the gods in heaven to Indra, when with them he comes to live."
    After, when the show was ended, and the city, calm and glad,
    Rest from tumult of rejoicing and rich flood of feasting had,
    Girt with shining squadrons, Nala fetched his pearl of women home.
    Like a queen did Damayanti back unto her palace come,
    By the Maharaja Bhima, by that mighty monarch sent
    Royally, with countless blessings, to her kingdom, in content.
    There, beside his peerless Princess, and his children, bore he sway,
    Godlike, even as Indra ruling 'mid the bliss of Nandana.[30]
    Bore he sway--my noble Nala--princeliest of all lords--who reign
    In the lands of Jambudwipa;[31] winning power and fame again;
    Ruling well his realm reconquered, like a just and perfect king,
    All the appointed gifts bestowing, all the rites remembering.

[22] Jhillikas are the large wood-crickets

[23] A caravan.

[24] This is a secretion which flows by a small orifice from the elephant's temples at certain
seasons. It is sweet-smelling, and constantly alluded to in Hindoo poetry.

[25] "Gentleness is chief of virtues."

[26] These "curls" are the "Arvathas," or marks of good blood and high-breeding.

[27] "O Beautiful One!"

[28] This raining down of heavenly flowers on auspicious occasions is a frequent incident in
ancient Indian poetry.

[29] A short; broad-bladed sword.

[30] Nandana is the Paradise of Indra.

[31] Ancient name of India: "The Land of the Rose-apple Tree."

SELECTIONS FROM THE RÁMÁYANA

BY

VÁLMÍKI

[Metrical translation by R.T.H. Griffiths]

INTRODUCTION

The ideas of the human family are few, as is apparent from the study of the literature of widely
different nations. Thus the "Rámáyana" ranks in Hindoo with the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey" in
Greek literature. The character of Ráma corresponds with that of Menelaus, for both the European
and the Asiatic heroes have had their wives carried off from them--although Sítá, the bride
of Ráma, is chaste as an icicle from Diana's temple, while Helen is the infamous type of wanton
wives, ancient and modern. The Hindoo Lanka is Troy, and Ayodhyá is Sparta. The material civilization
of the cities in the Hindoo epic is more luxurious and gorgeous than that which Homer attributes
to Greece in the heroic age. Such splendor and refinement as invests social life at Lanka and
Ayodhyá never appear amid the severe simplicity of Argos or Troy. The moral tone seems perhaps
higher in India than in Greece during the periods described in their several epics--at least
as far as mutual love and forbearance go--and the ideas of marriage and conjugal fidelity are
equally exalted.

As to the literary quality of the Hindoo epic in comparison with Homer's work, we are at once
impressed with the immense superiority of the Greek poem in artistic proportion, point, and
precision. The Hindoo poet flounders along, amid a maze of prolix description and wearisome
simile. Trifles are amplified and repeated, and the whole poem resembles a wild forest abounding
in rich tropical vegetation, palms and flowers, but without paths, roads, or limits. Or rather,
we are reminded of one of the highly painted and richly decorated idols of India, with their
many heads and many hands: but when we turn to the Greek epic we stand before a statue of pure
outline, flawless proportions, and more than human beauty.

It is difficult to fix the date of the "Rámáyana." Scholars generally agree that it belongs
to the third century before Christ, in its original form, but that some recent portions were
added even during the Christian era. It is reckoned as one of the sacred books, and the study
of it is supposed to bring forgiveness of sin, and prosperity. Its author is thought to have
been the famous poet Válmíki, but the work has evidently been rehandled several times, and
there are three versions of the poems still extant. The poem consists of twenty-four thousand
verses, and the story of it--now overlaid as it is with extravagant and fabulous accretions--is
evidently founded on fact. The scene of the poem is laid in the city of Ayodhyá, the modern
Oudh, which is described in glowing colors as a place of health, beauty, and prosperity--

    "In by-gone ages built and planned
    By sainted Manu's princely hand."

In the splendid palace of the Rajah, at Oudh, lives Daśaratha, mourning in childlessness. He
is one of the princes descended from the sun, and his line now threatens to become extinct.
He determines to appeal to the Gods by the Asva-medha, the great sacrifice in which a horse
is the victim. The rites accordingly are performed with unparalleled magnificence, and, at
the close of the ceremony, the high priest declares to the king--

    "Four sons, O Monarch, shall be thine,
    Upholders of the royal line."

Among the offspring duly granted to Daśaratha is Ráma, who is a typical Hindoo of the heroic
type. His fair wife, Sítá, is carried off by the demon Ravana, who had assumed the form of
a humble priest, or ascetic, in order to gain access to her. He carries her in his chariot
to Lanka, the fair city built on an island of the sea. By the assistance of a large army of
monkeys, Ráma marches against Lanka, and when they stand helpless--for the water separates
them from Ceylon--he then invokes the goddess of the sea, as Achilles did Thetis, and she comes
in radiant beauty, telling them how to bridge the waves. The monkeys bring timber and stones,
the bridge is built, Lanka reached, and the battle begins. Indra sends his own chariot down
from heaven to Ráma, who mounts it, and vanquishes Ravana in single combat, upon which Sítá
is restored to her husband.

    Where breathes the man can listen to the strain
    That flows in music from Válmíki's tongue,
    Nor feel his feet the path of bliss attain
    When Ráma's glory by the saint is sung?

    The stream Rámáyan leaves its sacred fount
    The whole wide world from sin and stain to free.
    The Prince of Hermits is the parent mount,
    The lordly Ráma is the darling sea.

    Glory to him whose fame is ever bright!
    Glory to him, Prachet's holy son!
    Whose pure lips quaff with ever-new delight
    The nectar-sea of deeds by Ráma done.

    Hail, arch-ascetic, pious, good, and kind!
    Hail, Saint Válmíki, lord of every lore!
    Hail, holy Hermit, calm and pure of mind!
    Hail, First of Bards, Válmíki, hail once more!

BOOK I

CANTO I

NARAD

Om.

    To sainted Nárad, prince of those
    Whose lore in words of wisdom flows,
    Whose constant care and chief delight
    Were Scripture and ascetic rite,
    The good Válmíki, first and best
    Of hermit saints, these words addressed:--
    "In all this world, I pray thee, who
    Is virtuous, heroic, true?
    Firm in his vows, of grateful mind,
    To every creature good and kind?
    Bounteous, and holy, just, and wise,
    Alone most fair to all men's eyes?
    Devoid of envy, firm, and sage,
    Whose tranquil soul ne'er yields to rage?
    Whom, when his warrior wrath is high,
    Do Gods embattled fear and fly?
    Whose noble might and gentle skill
    The triple world can guard from ill?
    Who is the best of princes, he
    Who loves his people's good to see?
    The store of bliss, the living mine
    Where brightest joys and virtues shine?
    Queen Fortune's best and dearest friend,
    Whose steps her choicest gifts attend?
    Who may with Sun and Moon compare,
    With Indra, Vishnu, Fire, and Air?
    Grant, Saint divine, the boon I ask,
    For thee, I ween, an easy task,
    To whom the power is given to know
    If such a man breathe here below."

    Then Nárad, clear before whose eye
    The present, past, and future lie,
    Made ready answer: "Hermit, where
    Are graces found so high and rare?
    Yet listen, and my tongue shall tell
    In whom alone these virtues dwell.
    From old Ikshváku's line he came,
    Known to the world by Ráma's name:--
    With soul subdued, a chief of might,
    In Scripture versed, in glory bright.
    His steps in virtue's paths are bent,
    Obedient, pure, and eloquent.
    In each emprise he wins success,
    And dying foes his power confess.
    Tall and broad-shouldered, strong of limb,
    Fortune has set her mark on him.
    Graced with a conch-shell's triple line,
    His throat displays the auspicious sign.
    High destiny is clear impressed
    On massive jaw and ample chest.
    His mighty shafts he truly aims,
    And foemen in the battle tames.
    Deep in the muscle, scarcely shown,
    Embedded lies his collar-bone.
    His lordly steps are firm and free,
    His strong arms reach below his knee;
    All fairest graces join to deck
    His head, his brow, his stately neck,
    And limbs in fair proportion set:--
    The manliest form e'er fashioned yet.
    Graced with each high imperial mark,
    His skin is soft and lustrous dark.
    Large are his eyes that sweetly shine
    With majesty almost divine.
    His plighted word he ne'er forgets;
    On erring sense a watch he sets.
    By nature wise, his teacher's skill
    Has trained him to subdue his will.
    Good, resolute and pure, and strong,
    He guards mankind from scathe and wrong,
    And lends his aid, and ne'er in vain,
    The cause of justice to maintain.
    Well has he studied o'er and o'er
    The Vedas and their kindred lore.
    Well skilled is he the bow to draw,
    Well trained in arts and versed in law;
    High-souled and meet for happy fate,
    Most tender and compassionate;
    The noblest of all lordly givers,
    Whom good men follow, as the rivers
    Follow the King of Floods, the sea:--
    So liberal, so just is he.
    The joy of Queen Kauśalyá's heart,
    In every virtue he has part;
    Firm as Himálaya's snowy steep,
    Unfathomed like the mighty deep;
    The peer of Vishnu's power and might,
    And lovely as the Lord of Night;
    Patient as Earth, but, roused to ire,
    Fierce as the world-destroying fire;
    In bounty like the Lord of Gold,
    And Justice' self in human mould.
    With him, his best and eldest son,
    By all his princely virtues won
    King Daśaratha willed to share
    His kingdom as the Regent Heir.
    But when Kaikeyí, youngest queen,
    With eyes of envious hate had seen
    The solemn pomp and regal state
    Prepared the prince to consecrate,
    She bade the hapless king bestow
    Two gifts he promised long ago,
    That Ráma to the woods should flee,
    And that her child the heir should be.

    By chains of duty firmly tied,
    The wretched King perforce complied.
    Ráma, to please Kaikeyí went
    Obedient forth, to banishment.
    Then Lakshman's truth was nobly shown,
    Then were his love and courage known,
    When for his brother's sake he dared
    All perils, and his exile shared.
    And Sítá, Ráma's darling wife,
    Loved even as he loved his life,
    Whom happy marks combined to bless,
    A miracle of loveliness,
    Of Janak's royal lineage sprung,
    Most excellent of women, clung
    To her dear lord, like Rohiní
    Rejoicing with the Moon to be.
    The King and people, sad of mood,
    The hero's car awhile pursued.
    But when Prince Ráma lighted down
    At Śringavera's pleasant town,
    Where Gangá's holy waters flow,
    He bade his driver turn and go.
    Guha, Nishádas' King, he met,
    And on the farther bank was set.
    Then on from wood to wood they strayed,
    O'er many a stream, through constant shade,
    As Bharadvája bade them, till
    They came to Chitrakúta's hill.
    And Ráma there, with Lakshman's aid,
    A pleasant little cottage made,
    And spent his days with Sítá, dressed
    In coat of bark and deerskin vest.
    And Chitrakúta grew to be
    As bright with those illustrious three
    As Meru's sacred peaks that shine
    With glory, when the Gods recline
    Beneath them: Śiva's self between
    The Lord of Gold and Beauty's Queen.

    The aged King for Ráma pined,
    And for the skies the earth resigned.
    Bharat, his son, refused to reign,
    Though urged by all the twice-born train.
    Forth to the woods he fared to meet
    His brother, fell before his feet,
    And cried "Thy claim all men allow:--
    O come, our lord and King be thou."
    But Ráma nobly chose to be
    Observant of his sire's decree.
    He placed his sandals in his hand,
    A pledge that he would rule the land:--
    And bade his brother turn again.
    Then Bharat, finding prayer was vain,
    The sandals took and went away;
    Nor in Ayodhyá would he stay,
    But turned to Nandigráma, where
    He ruled the realm with watchful care,
    Still longing eagerly to learn
    Tidings of Ráma's safe return.

    Then lest the people should repeat
    Their visit to his calm retreat,
    Away from Chitrakúta's hill
    Fared Ráma, ever onward till
    Beneath the shady trees he stood
    Of Dandaká's primeval wood.
    Virádha, giant fiend, he slew,
    And then Agastya's friendship knew.
    Counselled by him he gained the sword
    And bow of Indra, heavenly lord:--
    A pair of quivers too, that bore
    Of arrows an exhaustless store.
    While there he dwelt in greenwood shade,
    The trembling hermits sought his aid,
    And bade him with his sword and bow
    Destroy the fiends who worked them woe:--
    To come like Indra strong and brave,
    A guardian God to help and save.
    And Ráma's falchion left its trace
    Deep cut on Súrpanakhá's face:--
    A hideous giantess who came
    Burning for him with lawless flame.
    Their sister's cries the giants heard,
    And vengeance in each bosom stirred;
    The monster of the triple head,
    And Dúshan to the contest sped.
    But they and myriad fiends beside
    Beneath the might of Ráma died.

    When Rávan, dreaded warrior, knew
    The slaughter of his giant crew--
    Rávan, the King, whose name of fear
    Earth, hell, and heaven all shook to hear--
    He bade the fiend Márícha aid
    The vengeful plot his fury laid.
    In vain the wise Márícha tried
    To turn him from his course aside:--
    Not Rávan's self, he said, might hope
    With Ráma and his strength to cope.
    Impelled by fate and blind with rage
    He came to Ráma's hermitage.
    There, by Márícha's magic art,
    He wiled the princely youths apart,
    The vulture slew, and bore away
    The wife of Ráma as his prey.
    The son of Raghu came and found
    Jatáyu slain upon the ground.
    He rushed within his leafy cot;
    He sought his wife, but found her not.
    Then, then the hero's senses failed;
    In mad despair he wept and wailed.
    Upon the pile that bird he laid,
    And still in quest of Sítá strayed.
    A hideous giant then he saw,
    Kabandha named, a shape of awe.

    The monstrous fiend he smote and slew,
    And in the flame the body threw;
    When straight from out the funeral flame
    In lovely form Kabandha came,
    And bade him seek in his distress
    A wise and holy hermitess.
    By counsel of this saintly dame
    To Pampá's pleasant flood he came,
    And there the steadfast friendship won
    Of Hanumán the Wind-God's son.
    Counselled by him he told his grief
    To great Sugríva, Vánar chief,
    Who, knowing all the tale, before
    The sacred flame alliance swore.
    Sugríva to his new-found friend
    Told his own story to the end:--
    His hate of Báli for the wrong
    And insult he had borne so long.
    And Ráma lent a willing ear
    And promised to allay his fear.
    Sugríva warned him of the might
    Of Báli, matchless in the fight,
    And, credence for his tale to gain,
    Showed the huge fiend by Báli slain.
    The prostrate corse of mountain size
    Seemed nothing in the hero's eyes;
    He lightly kicked it, as it lay,
    And cast it twenty leagues away.
    To prove his might his arrows through
    Seven palms in line, uninjured, flew.
    He cleft a mighty hill apart,
    And down to hell he hurled his dart.
    Then high Sugríva's spirit rose,
    Assured of conquest o'er his foes.
    With his new champion by his side
    To vast Kishkindhá's cave he hied.
    Then, summoned by his awful shout,
    King Báli came in fury out,
    First comforted his trembling wife,
    Then sought Sugríva in the strife.
    One shaft from Ráma's deadly bow
    The monarch in the dust laid low.
    Then Ráma bade Sugríva reign
    In place of royal Báli slain.
    Then speedy envoys hurried forth
    Eastward and westward, south and north,
    Commanded by the grateful King
    Tidings of Ráma's spouse to bring.
    Then by Sampáti's counsel led,
    Brave Hanumán, who mocked at dread,
    Sprang at one wild tremendous leap
    Two hundred leagues, across the deep.
    To Lanká's[32] town he urged his way,
    Where Rávan held his royal sway.
    There pensive 'neath Aśoka boughs
    He found poor Sítá, Ráma's spouse.
    He gave the hapless girl a ring,
    A token from her lord and King.
    A pledge from her fair hand he bore;
    Then battered down the garden door.
    Five captains of the host he slew,
    Seven sons of councillors o'erthrew;
    Crushed youthful Aksha on the field,
    Then to his captors chose to yield.
    Soon from their bonds his limbs were free,
    But honoring the high decree
    Which Brahmá had pronounced of yore,
    He calmly all their insults bore.
    The town he burnt with hostile flame,
    And spoke again with Ráma's dame,
    Then swiftly back to Ráma flew
    With tidings of the interview.

    Then with Sugríva for his guide,
    Came Ráma to the ocean side.
    He smote the sea with shafts as bright
    As sunbeams in their summer height,
    And quick appeared the River's King
    Obedient to the summoning.
    A bridge was thrown by Nala o'er
    The narrow sea from shore to shore.
    They crossed to Lanká's golden town,
    Where Ráma's hand smote Rávan down.
    Vibhíshan there was left to reign
    Over his brother's wide domain.
    To meet her husband Sítá came;
    But Ráma, stung with ire and shame,
    With bitter words his wife addressed
    Before the crowd that round her pressed.
    But Sítá, touched with noble ire,
    Gave her fair body to the fire.
    Then straight the God of Wind appeared,
    And words from heaven her honor cleared.
    And Ráma clasped his wife again,
    Uninjured, pure from spot and stain,
    Obedient to the Lord of Fire
    And the high mandate of his sire.
    Led by the Lord who rules the sky,
    The Gods and heavenly saints drew nigh,
    And honored him with worthy meed,
    Rejoicing in each glorious deed.
    His task achieved, his foe removed,
    He triumphed, by the Gods approved.
    By grace of Heaven he raised to life
    The chieftains slain in mortal strife;
    Then in the magic chariot through
    The clouds to Nandigráma flew.
    Met by his faithful brothers there,
    He loosed his votive coil of hair;
    Thence fair Ayodhyá's town he gained,
    And o'er his father's kingdom reigned.
    Disease or famine ne'er oppressed
    His happy people, richly blest
    With all the joys of ample wealth,
    Of sweet content and perfect health.
    No widow mourned her well-loved mate,
    No sire his son's untimely fate.
    They feared not storm or robber's hand,
    No fire or flood laid waste the land:
    The Golden Age seemed come again
    To bless the days of Ráma's reign.
    From him the great and glorious King,
    Shall many a princely scion spring.
    And he shall rule, beloved by men,
    Ten thousand years and hundreds ten,
    And when his life on earth is past
    To Brahmá's world shall go at last.
    Bráhmans who read shall gather hence
    The highest praise for eloquence.
    The warrior, o'er the land shall reign,
    The merchant, luck in trade obtain;
    And Súdras, listening, ne'er shall fail
    To reap advantage from the tale.

[Cantos II., III., IV., and V. are omitted.]

[32] Ceylon.

CANTO VI

THE KING

    There reigned a King of name revered,
    To country and to town endeared,
    Great Daśaratha, good and sage,
    Well read in Scripture's holy page:
    Upon his kingdom's weal intent,
    Mighty and brave and provident;
    The pride of old Ikshváku's seed
    For lofty thought and righteous deed.
    Peer of the saints, for virtues famed,
    For foes subdued and passions tamed;
    A rival in his wealth untold
    Of Indra and the Lord of Gold.
    Like Manu first of kings, he reigned,
    And worthily his state maintained.
    For firm and just and ever true
    Love, duty, gain, he kept in view,
    And ruled his city rich and free,
    Like Indra's Amarávatí.
    And worthy of so fair a place
    There dwelt a just and happy race
    With troops of children blest.
    Each man contented sought no more,
    Nor longed with envy for the store
    By richer friends possessed.
    For poverty was there unknown,
    And each man counted as his own
    Kine, steeds, and gold, and grain.
    All dressed in raiment bright and clean,
    And every townsman might be seen
    With ear-rings, wreath or chain.
    None deigned to feed on broken fare,
    And none was false or stingy there.
    A piece of gold, the smallest pay,
    Was earned by labor for a day.
    On every arm were bracelets worn,
    And none was faithless or forsworn,
    A braggart or unkind.
    None lived upon another's wealth,
    None pined with dread or broken health,
    Or dark disease of mind.
    High-souled were all. The slanderous word,
    The boastful lie, were never heard.
    Each man was constant to his vows,
    And lived devoted to his spouse.
    No other love his fancy knew,
    And she was tender, kind, and true.
    Her dames were fair of form and face,
    With charm of wit and gentle grace,
    With modest raiment simply neat,
    And winning manners soft and sweet.
    The twice-born sages, whose delight
    Was Scripture's page and holy rite,
    Their calm and settled course pursued,
    Nor sought the menial multitude.
    In many a Scripture each was versed,
    And each the flame of worship nursed,
    And gave with lavish hand.
    Each paid to Heaven the offerings due,
    And none was godless or untrue
    In all that holy band.
    To Bráhmans, as the laws ordain,
    The Warrior caste were ever fain
    The reverence due to pay;
    And these the Vaiśyas' peaceful crowd,
    Who trade and toil for gain, were proud
    To honor and obey;
    And all were by the Súdras served,
    Who never from their duty swerved.
    Their proper worship all addressed
    To Bráhman, spirits, God, and guest.
    Pure and unmixt their rites remained,
    Their race's honor ne'er was stained.
    Cheered by his grandsons, sons, and wife,
    Each passed a long and happy life.
    Thus was that famous city held
    By one who all his race excelled,
    Blest in his gentle reign,
    As the whole land aforetime swayed
    By Manu, prince of men, obeyed
    Her king from main to main.
    And heroes kept her, strong and brave,
    As lions guard their mountain cave;
    Fierce as devouring flame they burned,
    And fought till death, but never turned.
    Horses had she of noblest breed,
    Like Indra's for their form and speed,
    From Váhli's hills and Sindhu's sand,
    Vanáyu and Kámboja's land.
    Her noble elephants had strayed
    Through Vindhyan and Himálayan shade,
    Gigantic in their bulk and height,
    Yet gentle in their matchless might.
    They rivalled well the world-spread fame
    Of the great stock from which they came,
    Of Váman, vast of size,
    Of Mahápadma's glorious line,
    Thine, Anjan, and, Airávat, thine,
    Upholders of the skies.
    With those, enrolled in fourfold class,
    Who all their mighty kin surpass,
    Whom men Matangas name,
    And Mrigas spotted black and white,
    And Bhadras of unwearied might,
    And Mandras hard to tame.
    Thus, worthy of the name she bore,
    Ayodhyá for a league or more
    Cast a bright glory round,
    Where Daśaratha wise and great
    Governed his fair ancestral state,
    With every virtue crowned.
    Like Indra in the skies he reigned
    In that good town whose wall contained
    High domes and turrets proud,
    With gates and arcs of triumph decked,
    And sturdy barriers to protect
    Her gay and countless crowd.

CANTO VII

THE MINISTERS

    Two sages, holy saints, had he,
    His ministers and priests to be:--
    Vaśishtha, faithful to advise,
    And Vámadeva, Scripture-wise.
    Eight other lords around him stood,
    All skilled to counsel, wise and good:--
    Jayanta, Vijay, Dhrishti bold
    In fight, affairs of war controlled;
    Siddhárth and Arthasádhak true
    Watched o'er expense and revenue,
    And Dharmapál and wise Aśok
    Of right and law and justice spoke.
    With these the sage Sumantra, skilled
    To urge the car, high station filled.
    All these in knowledge duly trained
    Each passion and each sense restrained:--
    With modest manners, nobly bred,
    Each plan and nod and look they read,
    Upon their neighbors' good intent,
    Most active and benevolent;
    As sits the Vasus round their King,
    They sate around him counselling.
    They ne'er in virtue's loftier pride
    Another's lowly gifts decried.
    In fair and seemly garb arrayed,
    No weak uncertain plans they made.
    Well skilled in business, fair and just,
    They gained the people's love and trust,
    And thus without oppression stored
    The swelling treasury of their lord.
    Bound in sweet friendship each to each,
    They spoke kind thoughts in gentle speech.
    They looked alike with equal eye
    On every caste, on low and high.
    Devoted to their King, they sought,
    Ere his tongue spoke, to learn his thought,
    And knew, as each occasion rose,
    To hide their counsel or disclose.
    In foreign lands or in their own
    Whatever passed, to them was known.
    By secret spies they timely knew
    What men were doing or would do.
    Skilled in the grounds of war and peace
    They saw the monarch's state increase,
    Watching his weal with conquering eye
    That never let occasion by,
    While nature lent her aid to bless
    Their labors with unbought success.
    Never for anger, lust, or gain,
    Would they their lips with falsehood stain.
    Inclined to mercy they could scan
    The weakness and the strength of man.
    They fairly judged both high and low,
    And ne'er would wrong a guiltless foe;
    Yet if a fault were proved, each one
    Would punish e'en his own dear son.
    But there and in the kingdom's bound
    No thief or man impure was found:--
    None of loose life or evil fame,
    No tempter of another's dame.
    Contented with their lot each caste
    Calm days in blissful quiet passed;
    And, all in fitting tasks employed,
    Country and town deep rest enjoyed.
    With these wise lords around his throne
    The monarch justly reigned,
    And making every heart his own
    The love of all men gained.
    With trusty agents, as beseems,
    Each distant realm he scanned,
    As the sun visits with his beams
    Each corner of the land.
    Ne'er would he on a mightier foe
    With hostile troops advance,
    Nor at an equal strike a blow
    In war's delusive chance.
    These lords in council bore their part
    With ready brain and faithful heart,
    With skill and knowledge, sense and tact,
    Good to advise and bold to act.
    And high and endless fame he won
    With these to guide his schemes--
    As, risen in his might, the sun
    Wins glory with his beams.

CANTO VIII

SUMANTRA'S SPEECH

    But splendid, just, and great of mind,
    The childless King for offspring pined.
    No son had he his name to grace,
    Transmitter of his royal race.
    Long had his anxious bosom wrought,
    And as he pondered rose the thought:--
    "A votive steed 'twere good to slay,
    So might a son the gift repay."
    Before his lords his plans he laid,
    And bade them with their wisdom aid;
    Then with these words Sumantra, best
    Of royal counsellors, addressed:--
    "Hither, Vaśishtha at their head,
    Let all my priestly guides be led."

    To him Sumantra made reply:--
    "Hear, sire, a tale of days gone by.
    To many a sage in time of old,
    Sanatkumár, the saint, foretold
    How from thine ancient line, O King,
    A son, when years came round, should spring
    'Here dwells,' 'twas thus the seer began,
    'Of Kaśyap's race, a holy man,
    Vibhándak named: to him shall spring
    A son, the famous Rishyaśring.
    Bred with the deer that round him roam,
    The wood shall be that hermit's home.
    To him no mortal shall be known
    Except his holy sire alone.
    Still by those laws shall he abide
    Which lives of youthful Bráhmans guide,
    Obedient to the strictest rule
    That forms the young ascetic's school:
    And all the wondering world shall hear
    Of his stern life and penance drear;
    His care to nurse the holy fire
    And do the bidding of his sire.
    Then, seated on the Angas' throne,
    Shall Lomapád to fame be known.
    But folly wrought by that great King
    A plague upon the land shall bring;
    No rain for many a year shall fall
    And grievous drought shall ruin all.
    The troubled King with many a prayer
    Shall bid the priests some cure declare:--
    "The lore of Heaven 'tis yours to know,
    Nor are ye blind to things below:--
    Declare, O holy men, the way
    This plague to expiate and stay."
    Those best of Bráhmans shall reply:--
    "By every art, O Monarch, try,
    Hither to bring Vibhándak's child,
    Persuaded, captured, or beguiled.
    And when the boy is hither led
    To him thy daughter duly wed."

    But how to bring that wondrous boy
    His troubled thoughts will long employ,
    And hopeless to achieve the task
    He counsel of his lords will ask,
    And bid his priests and servants bring
    With honor saintly Rishyaśring.
    But when they hear the monarch's speech,
    All these their master will beseech,
    With trembling hearts and looks of woe,
    To spare them, for they fear to go.
    And many a plan will they declare
    And crafty plots will frame,
    And promise fair to show him there,
    Unforced, with none to blame.
    On every word his lords shall say,
    The King will meditate,
    And on the third returning day
    Recall them to debate.
    Then this shall be the plan agreed,
    That damsels shall be sent
    Attired in holy hermits' weed,
    And skilled in blandishment,
    That they the hermit may beguile
    With every art and amorous wile
    Whose use they know so well,
    And by their witcheries seduce
    The unsuspecting young recluse
    To leave his father's cell.
    Then when the boy with willing feet
    Shall wander from his calm retreat
    And in that city stand,
    The troubles of the King shall end,
    And streams of blessed rain descend
    Upon the thirsty land.
    Thus shall the holy Rishyaśring
    To Lomapád, the mighty King,
    By wedlock be allied;
    For Śántá, fairest of the fair,
    In mind and grace beyond compare,
    Shall be his royal bride.
    He, at the Offering of the Steed,
    The flames with holy oil shall feed,
    And for King Daśaratha gain
    Sons whom his prayers have begged in vain,'
    I have repeated, sire, thus far,
    The words of old Sanatkumár,
    In order as he spoke them then
    Amid the crowd of holy men."
    Then Daśaratha cried with joy,
    "Say how they brought the hermit boy."

CANTO IX

RISHYAŚRING

