PUNCH,

  OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

  VOLUME 98.

  MAY 17, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALL IN PLAY.

MY DEAR EDITOR,--Whilst you were feasting in Burlington House amongst the Pictures and the
Royal Academicians, I was seated in the Stalls of the St. James's Theatre, lost in astonishment
(certainly not in admiration, although of old the two words had the same meaning), at the antics
of a minority of the Gallery, who amused themselves by shouting themselves hoarse before the
performances commenced; but not satisfied with this, they continued their shrieking further:
they howled at the overture of the first piece, they jeered at the scene, they yelled at the
actors. However, as it happened, The Tiger had been already successfully played on two occasions
last year, so a verdict was not required at their hands. Had Mr. SOLOMON, the composer, conducted,
he would have taken The Tiger away, and left the howlers to their howling. Since Saturday the
piece has, I am informed, "gone" with what the Americans call a "snap." The music is charming.
Mr. CHARLES COLNAGHI made his bow as a professional, and played and sang excellently, as did
also Mr. J. G. TAYLOR, in spite of the riotous conduct of the "unfriendlies."

Then came Esther Sandraz. Mrs. LANGTRY looked lovely, and played with great power; but what
an unpleasant part! Until the end of the First Act all was right. The sympathy was with the
heroine of the hour, or, rather, two hours and a half; but when it was discovered that Esther
loved but for revenge, and wished to bring sorrow and shame upon the fair head of Miss MARION
LEA, then the sentiments of the audience underwent a rapid change. Everyone would have been
pleased if Mr. SUGDEN had shot himself in Act II.; nay, some of us would not have complained
if he had died in Act I., but the cat-and-mouse-like torture inflicted upon him by Esther was
the reverse of agreeable. Mr. SUGDEN was only a "Johnnie", but still "Johnnies" have feelings
like the rest of us. Mr. BOURCHIER was rather hard as a good young man who does not die, and
Mr. EVERILL (steady old stager) kept everything well together. If the play keeps the boards
for any length of time, it will be, thanks to the power of Mrs. LANGTRY, the natural pathos
of Miss MARION LEA, and the unforced comedy of Mr. EVERILL.

On Monday Miss GRACE HAWTHORNE produced Theodora at the Princess's Theatre with some success.
It cannot be said, however, that Mlle. SARA BERNHARDT has at length found her rival, but, for
all that, the heroine of the moment might have been worse. "SARDOU'S masterpiece" (as the programmes
have it) was very well staged. The scenery and costumes were excellent, and great relief was
afforded to the more tragic tones of the play by entrusting the heavy part of Andreas to Mr.
LEONARD BOYNE, who is a thorough artist, with just the least taste in life of the brogue that
savours more of the Milesian Drama. Mr. W. H. VERNON was the Justinian of the evening, and
looked the Lawgiver to the life; although I am not quite sure whether a half-concealed moustache
was quite the fashion in the days of the Empire. Mr. ROBERT BUCHANAN, the adapter of "the masterpiece",
introduced several nineteenth century expressions into the dialogue. In the "home of the Gladiators",
it was quite pleasant to hear people talking of a "row", and made one wish to have a description
of "a merry little mill", in the language of the sporting Press. No doubt, the length of the
performances was the reason why so racy a narrative was omitted. For the rest, there are some
thirty speaking parts--a good allowance for a play consisting of six Acts and seven Tableaux.
A "Masterpiece" (in English) is better than a feast, for it is enough--for a lifetime. Believe
me, yours faithfully,

ONE WHO HAS TAKEN A DOUBLE "FIRST."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A STIRRING POLE.--A more stirring pianist than PADEREWSKI, who played on Friday afternoon at
St. James's Hall for the first time in England, has never been heard. The report that he is
a Polonised Irishman needs confirmation. The name is suspicious. But there are no sound reasons
for supposing that the first two syllables of PADEREWSKI'S name are simply a corruption of
the Hibernian "Paddy."

       *       *       *       *       *

CLASSIC MOTTO FOR THOSE WHO SELL AS THE GENUINE ARTICLE TEA UNDER A FALSE BRAND.--"Nomine mutato
fabula narratur de Tea."

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. R. wants to know if she can ascertain all about the Law of Libel, &c., in the works which
she contemplates purchasing of WALTER SAVAGE SLANDOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR ADVERTISERS.

A New Departure, or the "Give-'em-a-hand-all-round" Wrinkle.

ROYAL QUARTPOTARIUM.--THE RENOWNED WORLD FASTING CHAMPION, who is dressed in a READY-MADE SUIT
OF TWEED DITTOS (38s.) supplied by Messrs. LEVI, SOLOMANS & CO., of 293, Houndsditch, and is

       * * *

SEATED ON THE GENT'S EASY LOUNGE CHAIR, forming one of the articles of the highly-upholstered
dining-room set (as advertised) by Messrs. GLUBBINS, KNICKERBOCKER & CO., of Tottenham Court
Road, where at any hour he can be seen

       * * *

SIPPING ALTERNATELY FROM TWO LARGE CUT-GLASS TUMBLERS, furnished by Messrs. WAGBITTER AND GROANS,
of New Oxford Street,

       * * *

BLINKER'S CONCENTRATED COD-LIVER EMULSION MELTED FATS (57s. the dozen pints, bottles included), and

       * * *

SPARKLING SINGULARIS WATER, bottled in nine-gallon flagons by the Company at their extensive
works in the Isle of Dogs, with which, to the satisfaction of his friends, he succeeds in washing
down, in turns, hourly,

       * * *

BINNACLE'S CONDENSED DIGESTIVE BOILED PORK LOZENGES, supplied by all respectable Chemists throughout
the United Kingdom, in 1s. 9d., 3s. 9d., 13s. 3d., 27s. 6d., and 105s. Boxes;

       * * *

SIDES, BREASTS, FORE-QUARTERS, SADDLES, AND ENTIRE WHOLE OR HALF-SHEEP OF PRIME BOLIVIAN MUTTON
delivered daily by the Company's carts, from their own Refrigerators;

       * * *

WINKER'S INVALID INFANT'S PICK-ME-UP CORDIAL--(WINKER & CO., the Manufactory, Hoxton-on-Sea);

       * * *

TINNED AMERICAN OYSTERS. FINE SELECTED THIRDS. Guaranteed by the Blue-Point Company, Wriggleville,
Texas, U.S.A.; and

       * * *

ZWINGERINE, the new marvellous nerve and tone-restoring, and muscle, bone, and fat-producing
agency, EACH TEASPOONFUL OF WHICH contains, in a highly-concentrated form, three bottles of
port wine, soup, fish, cut off the joint, two entrées, sweet, cheese, and celery, as testified
to by a public analyst of standing and repute. Agents, GLUM & CO, Seven Dials.

       * * *

THE FASTING CHAMPION continues to receive visitors as above from 6 A.M. to 11 P.M. daily, and
may be inspected, watched, stared at, pinched, questioned, and examined generally, by his admiring
friends, the British Public, in his private sanctum at the Royal Quartpotarium, till further
notice.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE KNOW.--(By Mr. Punch's Own Prophet.)

CARDINAL RICHELIEU once observed to Madame DE ST. GALMIER, that if Kings could but know the
folly of their subjects they would hesitate at nothing. Mr. JEREMY evidently knows thoroughly
how stupendously cabbage-headed his readers are, for he never hesitates to put forward the
most astounding and muddy-minded theories. For instance, he asks us this week to believe that
Saladin ought to have won the Shropshire Handicap, because he was known to be a better horse,
from two miles up to fifty, than the four other horses who faced the starter. If this stuff
had been addressed to an audience of moon-calves and mock-turtles it might have passed muster,
but, thank Heaven, we are not all quite so low as that yet. Let me therefore tell Mr. JEREMY,
that when a horse like Saladin, whose back-bone is like the Himalaya mountains, and his pastern
joints like a bottle-nosed whale with a cold in his head, comes to the post with two stone
and a beating to his credit, and four hoofs about the size of a soup-tureen to his legs, he
can never be expected to get the better of slow roarers like Carmichael and Busby, to say nothing
of Whatnot and Pumblechook. It is well known, of course, that the latter has been in hard training
for a month, and a better horse at cornbin or bran-mash never stepped. Saladin won, I know,
but it was for reasons very different from those given by Mr. JEREMY.

There is nothing new about the Derby horses. I believe they are mostly in training, but I reserve
my opinion until I see what the addle-pates who own them mean to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A SELF-MADE MAN", said Mrs. R., thoughtfully, "is the artichoke of his own fortunes."

       *       *       *       *       *

From the bears, apes, and foxes with which the thickets of the great forest of Societas abounded,
it is but a step to the Pygmy tribes whom we found inhabiting the tract of country between
the Uperten and the Suburban rivers. The Pygmies are as old as Swelldom, as ubiquitous as Boredom,
the two secular pests of the earth. You will remember that Hercules once fell asleep in the
deserts of Africa, after his conquest of Antæus, and was disturbed in his well-earned rest
by an attack of a large army of these troublesome Lilliputians, who, it is recorded, "discharged
their arrows with great fury upon his arms and legs." The hero, it is added, "pleased with
their courage, wrapped a great number of them in the skin of the Nemean lion, and carried them
to Eurystheus."

I was not "pleased with their courage", but plagued with their importunities. HERODOTUS described
the capture of five young explorers from Naasamoves while they were examining some curious
trees in the Niger basin, and tells how the little men took them to their villages and showed
them about to their fellow Pygmies. So, in a sense, the Pygmies of Societas "captured" me,
and showed me about to their fellow denizens of this Land of Lilliput. They "discharged their
arrows" (which they called "In-Vites", and each of which was branded with the mystic letters,
R.S.V.P.) at me in swarms, and though they rather tickled than hurt, yet after a time their
minute but multiplied prickings became no end of a nuisance.

Let us pause a little, and pay such honour as is due for persistence and importunity to these
"little people", who have outlived the wise men of Egypt, the prophets of Palestine, the magicians
of Persia, and the sages of Greece and Rome. They have actually been able to hold their own
from the days of HOMER, through those of HORACE, down even to those of HAGGARD. I have seen
the wear and tear of the Pyramids of Egypt (which is nothing to that of a lionised hero in
Societas); I can certify that the Sphynx presents a very battered appearance indeed (though
not so battered as mine, after the "little people" had done with me), but the Pygmies of to-day
in Societas appear to be as plentiful and as perky as those that thousands of years ago swarmed
in Æthiopia, built their houses with egg-shells, made war upon the Cranes, and attacked the
tired hero Hercules.

You will understand that I, who have always professed to love humanity, even in the form of
mannikins, better than beetles and butterflies, was as much interested in these small creatures
as was Hercules in the skinful of midgets he carried to the exacting Eurystheus. As I looked
at them, and thought how these represented the oldest race on the globe--namely, the Inquisitive
Quidnuncs--my admiration really went to greater lengths than scoffing cynics might have expected.

These Pygmies of Societas, though small, are cunning, and wise in their generation. For the
most part they toil not, (save at pleasure-seeking and lion-hunting), neither do they spin
(anything beyond the edifying yarns they call "after-dinner stories"). But they manage to live
on the fat of the land. The larger aborigines (called the Whirkirs) are very industrious, and
form the clearings and cultivate the various produce of the place. The Pygmies appear to be
aware that the plantations and powers of the Whirkirs are practically inexhaustible, and to
think that they have as much right to the produce as the aboriginal owners and tillers. Therefore,
they cling tightly to these plantations, and make the larger and more laborious natives pay
dearly for the honour of their acquaintance. In another manner they perform valuable service
by setting fashions, receiving strangers, and assisting in the defence of the settlements;
they also hunt game, and supply the larger natives with plenty to do in working for and waiting
on them. It appeared to me that the Pygmies were regarded somewhat as parasites (though highly
ornamental ones, like orchids) whose departure would be more welcome--to the aborigines--than
their vicinity. But a race which has survived so much and so many things is not easily to be
got rid of.

Anyhow, I couldn't get rid of them, though sometimes I felt inclined to imitate Hercules. With
their arrows and their unblushing importunities they had me at advantage, and even as Gulliver
became the victim of the midgets of Lilliput, so did I of the innumerable, inquisitive, imperturbably
impertinent Pygmies of Societas.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIRST FIGHT.

(Between the Seventh Team of Australian Cricketers and an English Eleven, begun at Sheffield
Park, on May 8, 1890.)

  A HAZE hung over the Surrey Downs
  In the early morning; but Nature's frowns
  Broke up in smiles as the day advanced.
  And the grey mist cleared and the sunbeams glanced
  On MURDOCH bold, and his merry men.
  When hundreds of optics, and many a pen
  Were on the alert, at Sheffield Park,
  The valiant deeds (between wickets) to mark
  Of the Seventh Australian Cricketing lot.
  MURDOCH and LYONS, BARRETT and TROTT,
  Lads of their inches in flesh and bones;
  TURNER and WALTERS, BLACKHAM and JONES,
  GREGORY, CHARLTON and FERRIS too;
  A sterling Eleven, second to few.
  Whilst "odd men" TRUMBLE and BURN and BOYLE
  "Stood out" of the first big match's toil,
  'Gainst GRACE and STODDART, NEWHAM and READ,
  SHERWIN and SHREWSBURY, stout at need,
  LOHMANN and HUMPHREYS, and BRIGGS and PEEL,
  And ATTEWELL with the nerves of steel.
  No need to tell how they met and fought,
  And bowled, and batted, and stumped, and caught;
  But Mr. Punch, who has seen all six
  Of the other Elevens before the "sticks",
  And cheered them victors, or vanquished cheered,
  Shoots forth his fist, as the lists are cleared,
  To welcome back to an English wicket
  These champions fresh of Colonial Cricket.
  He will not "butter" you, boys, for that you'll hate.
  Only he must most sincerely congratulate
  His old friend MURDOCH on starting so well.
  Go it, Sir, keep it up, W. L.!
  Here's wishing the lot of you health and pluck,
  Decent weather and level luck.
  And when your last "four" to the boundary flashes,
  Take all good things home with you--saving those "ashes."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

READ "As Haggards on the Rock" in Scribner's for May. It is a weird tale, but nothing whatever
to do with "HAGGARD" ("RIDER" of that ilk), which may or may not be an additional attraction,
according to the taste and fancy of the reader. "Never do I see Scribner's Magazine", quoth
the Baron, "without wishing to change its name, or start a competitor under the style and title
of 'Scribbler's Magazine.' If the latter isn't 'a colourable imitation,' it must be done, and
that speedily."

Woman, though appearing weekly, comes out peculiarly strong. "A really entertaining, interesting,
and chatty publication", says the Baroness.

One of the best volumes of the Badminton Library series is that on Golf, recently published,
written chiefly by HORACE G. HUTCHINSON, with capital contributions on the subject from the
great ruler of Home-Rulers, ARTHUR BALFOUR, M.P., and the ubiquitous and universally gifted
MERRY ANDREW LANG, to whom no subject, apparently, presents any difficulty whatever, he being,
like Father O'FLYNN, able to discourse on Theology or Conchology, or Mythology, and all the
other ologies, including, in this instance, Golfology, with equal skill and profundity of wisdom.
Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit, and the scent of the LANG Y LANG, is over all periodical literature
generally. Let not the elderly intending student of Golf, on opening the book, be deterred
by seeing a chapter headed "Clubs and Balls", which may induce him to say, "My dancing days
are over." The illustrations, by Messrs. C. L. SHUTE, T. HODGE, and H. FIERY FURNISS, are excellent.
The vignettes in A. LANG's paper--especially one happily taken from an "Old Miss-all", where
several players are represented as not making a hit--are both interesting and amusing. On the
whole--on the Golfian Hole--a capital volume. Mr. Punch drinks to his Grace of BEAUFORT in
a cup of Badminton. Of course not so intimately as within the last eight or nine years; but
ever since I took my seat on piles of bound volumes at feet of the MASTER, have kept one eye
on Parliament.

Never saw a scene to equal what took place to-night. When House met, good deal of talk about
yesterday's Labour Demonstration. Everybody agreed it was enormous, unprecedented, momentous.
The Working Man demands a day of eight hours' labour, and will see that he gets it. Still talking
about the matter in whispers. Second Heading of Budget Bill under discussion; SHAW-LEFEVRE
on legs, protesting against increased expenditure on Army and Navy. Undertakes to show it is
absolutely unnecessary. Beginning his demonstration when hand of clock touched hour of Six.
SPEAKER rose with cry of "Order! Order!" SHAW-LEFEVRE resumed seat; afraid he had, in exuberance
of eloquence, committed some breach of order. Members crowded in to hear what SPEAKER had to say.

"This House," he said, as soon as silence restored, "will now adjourn. At least I must withdraw;
and unless it can be shown that Deputy-Speaker has been in bed all day, or otherwise idling
his time, you cannot go on. Under ordinary circumstances, House meeting at Three o'clock, we
should have adjourned sharp at Eleven to-night; but the fact is, my day's work began at Ten
this morning. That is a necessity of my position. With interval of hasty meals, I have been
accustomed to work a maximum of twelve hours a day, often running up to fourteen. That, however,
now over. Settled by Working Man that Labour Day should not exceed Eight Hours. We will, therefore,
now break up. I daresay some of you Hon. Gentlemen, engaged at the Bar or in affairs in the
City, commenced your work even earlier than Ten?"

"Sir", said OLD MORALITY, "I do not know whether I am in order in speaking after the clock
has struck Six, and so extending our legal day. I will, however, promise to be brief. In fact,
I rise merely to confirm your view, Sir, of our position. For my own part, I have been closely
engaged in the business that pertains to performance of my duty to the QUEEN and Country, since
an hour earlier than Ten this morning, and I think I may say the same for my friends near me
on this Bench. [ASHMEAD-BARTLETT: "Hear, hear!"] We were, as usual, prepared to go forward
with our work, to sit here till whatever hour was necessary to accomplish it. Without abating
one jit or tottle--"

SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT: "The Right Hon. Gentleman probably means one jot or tittle."

OLD MORALITY: "In accordance with my habit, Sir, I meant what I said. As I was saying, when
perhaps somewhat unnecessarily interrupted by the Right Hon. Gentleman, I do not abate one
tit or jottle of my desire to perform my duty where duty is doo; but since our friend the Working
Man has declared in favour of a labouring day confined to Eight Hours, we must needs follow him."

OLD MORALITY packed up his papers; JOKIM locked up red box containing papers relating to Budget
Scheme; HARCOURT rose to continue discussion; discovered that SPEAKER had gone, and Serjeant-at-Arms
removed Mace; so, at few minutes past Six, got off with plenty of time to enjoy that recreation,
and cultivate those family relations, not less dear to a Member of Parliament than to the more
'orny 'anded son of toil. Odd at this early hour to hear cry of Doorkeeper, "Who goes home?"

"Well", says Member for St. Pancras, "I think I'll be BOLTON." And he bolted. Business done.----New
Eight Hours' Day arrangement came into operation. Entirely successful.

Tuesday.--RITCHIE a mild-mannered man, six feet high, and of genial temperament. But there
are some things he can't stand. One is, to assume that Government Bill dealing with Local Taxation
involves Compensation for disestablished publicans.

"I must say", he observed, just now, glaring on CALEB WRIGHT, "that I object to the word Compensation
which the Hon. Gentleman has used in his question."

What Government had done was to propose measure for the extinction of licences. Of course,
a little money would pass. JOKIM, in Budget Scheme, made provision to enable County Council
to buy out publicans. "But to call such a transaction Compensation is", RITCHIE added, his
left eye twitching in fearsome manner on CALEB WRIGHT, "preposterous."

That being so, House went into Committee on Allotments Bill, and drummed away till sitting
suspended.

At Evening Sitting, BOB REID brought on Motion raising sort of British Land Question. Wants
to empower Town Councils and County Councils in England and Scotland to acquire, either by
agreement or compulsorily, such land within their district as may be needed for the requirements
of the inhabitants. House naturally shocked to find a Member proposing to discuss any phase
of Land Question apart from Ireland. Interposition of Great Britain in this connection regarded
as impertinence. Compromise arrived at; agreed to leave out Scotland. On these terms Debate
went forward.

CHAPLIN in charge of case for Government. At last, in his natural position, temporary Leader
of the House.

CHAPLIN (aside), "Glamis and Thane of Cawdor! the greatest is behind."

How different from ancient days and nights, when he sat below Gangway in corner seat, that
is, when he could get it. Couldn't always; sometimes presumptuous person forestalled him. Even
when there, with notes of treasured speech in swelling breast pocket, by no means certain he
would find opportunity of convincing House. Others step in, and edge him on into ignominious
dinner hour. Now a Minister of the Crown, with a new Department created for his control; to-night
in charge of Government business. OLD MORALITY off early, full of restful confidence.

"CHAPLIN'S looking after things", he said, as he made himself comfortable in his room. "Needn't
bother; all will go right. Great thing for a First Minister to have a man he can thoroughly
depend on."

"At least, TOBY", CHAPLIN said, "those were his remarks as reported to me. I will not deny
that they are gratifying."

At the proper time--at his own time--the Minister for Agriculture rose, and, positively pervading
the premises, utterly demolished BOB REID, his supporters, his arguments, and his resolution.

"CHAPLIN", said JOHN MORLEY, watching him with admiring glance, "always reminds me of VICTOR
HUGO'S description of the Rev. Ebenezer Caudray. You remember him in Les Travailleurs de la
Mer? Haven't the book with me, but translation runs something like this:--'He had the gracefulness
of a page, mingled with the dignity of a Bishop.' Never knew that VICTOR HUGO was personally
acquainted with CHAPLIN; but he certainly here hits off his characteristics in a phrase."

Business done.--Miscellaneous, and not much.

Thursday.--"Where do you put the Cow?"

"Was ever man interrupted with such a question in such circumstances?" asked JESSE COLLINGS,
unconsciously quoting Tristram Shandy's father.

Circumstances sufficiently strange to make a man quote STERNE, even if he'd never read his
masterpiece. House in Committee on Budget Bill. STOREY moved Amendment on Clause 26, dealing
with exemption from Inhabited House Duty of tenement buildings. CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER
taken part in the Debate. CHARLES RUSSELL said a few words. House in most serious, not to say
depressed mood. Subject particularly inviting for JESSE; always advocated welfare of Working
Classes; now seized opportunity to descant on theme. Detailed with growing warmth arrangements
desirable for perfecting sanitation of houses for Working Classes; when TANNER, crossing arms
and legs, and cocking head on one side, with provoking appearance of keen interest, suddenly
submitted this problem:--

"Where do you put the Cow?"

Opposition laughed. Ministerialists cried, "Order!" Various courses open to JESSE. Might have
assumed air of interested inquiry. Cow? What Cow? Why drag in the Cow? Might have slain TANNER
with a stony stare, and left him to drag his untimely quadruped off the ground. But JESSE took
the Cow seriously. Allowed it to get its horns entangled amid thread of his argument. Glared
angrily upon the pachydermatous TANNER, and having thus played into his hands, loftily declared,
"I do not propose to take any notice of the insult."

"It makes me smile", said SWIFT MACNEILL, walking out for fear GOSCHEN should hear his smile
and clap a penny on his Income-Tax.

A long night for JOKIM, wrestling for his Budget. Ominous gathering on Front Bench. Mr. G.,
not seen lately, comes down. To him foregathers HARCOURT. Assaults on Budget begun from below
the Gangway. Proposed to postpone clauses on which Local Budget Bill will be built up. JOKIM
shakes his head. Mr. G. amazed at his refusal to listen to reasonable suggestion. HARCOURT
rises, meaning to run atilt at JOKIM. Chairman of Committees puts out his foot, nearly trips
him up. HARCOURT turns and bends on COURTNEY expressive glance. Never much love lost between
these two. Now COURTNEY in official position can snub HARCOURT--and does. Shall HARCOURT go
for him? Shall he take him up in his powerful arms and tear him to pieces with delighted teeth?
A moment's pause, whilst HARCOURT, towering at table, toying nervously with eyeglass, looks
down on Chairman who has just ruled him out of order. Shall he? Struggles with his suddenly
awakened wrath, gulps it down, turns aside to talk of something else.

Not to-night, but some night there will be wigs (especially COURTNEY'S) on the green.

Business done.--Budget in Committee.

Friday.--Met MARKISS walking with weary footsteps from Lords. Curiously depressed air. "Anything
happened at East Bristol?" I asked. "But you cannot have heard yet."

