Within the last twelve months, only 503 deaths have occurred from small pox within the Bills
of Mortality; whereas, in the preceding year 1299 persons are recorded as having fallen victims
to that loathsome disease.--Vaccine Institut. Report.

China.

A valuable museum of the products of Chinese skill and industry has recently been exhibited
at Rome, in which the progress made by a people of whom so little is known, and civilization
and the arts, is demonstrated. The manufacture of bronzes, porcelain, gold work, and casts
in copper, has arrived in China at an approach to perfection which the most advanced European
nations would find it difficult to surpass. Some of the Chinese vases may really be compared
to those of the finest time of Greece. The sculptures and the paintings, even with reference
to anatomical precision, are as highly finished as ours.--Literary Gazette.

Recovery from Suspended Animation.

A case is reported in a recent number of the Bulletin Universel, by a French physician, M.
Bourgeois, showing the importance of never abandoning all hope of success in restoring animation.
A person who had been twenty minutes under water, was treated in the usual way for the space
of half an hour without success: when a ligature being applied to the arm, above a vein that
had been previously opened, ten ounces of blood were withdrawn, after which the circulation
and respiration gradually returned, though accompanied by the most dreadful convulsions. A
second, and a third bleeding was had recourse to, which brought about a favourable sleep, and
ultimate recovery on the ensuing day.

Iron.

It is a singular fact, that the value of the iron annually produced in England greatly exceeds
the value of the silver annually produced in Peru.

Hair.

At a recent meeting of the Academy of Sciences, at Paris, M. F. Cuvier, in a memoir on the
generation of feathers, spines, and hair, introduced the following curious conclusion:--"I
consider the organic system which produces hair as analogous to that of the senses, and even
as forming part of them; for the hair is in a great number of animals a very sensitive organ
of touch. It is not only in mustaches that we have a proof of it, but on the whole surface
of the body. The slightest touch of a hair is sufficient in cats, for example, to make them
contort their skin and shudder, as they do when they find something light attached to the hair,
and that they wish to shake off."

Population of England.

The United Kingdom of Britain and Ireland contains 74 millions of acres, of which at least
64 millions of acres may be considered capable of cultivation. Half an acre, with ordinary
cultivation, is sufficient to supply an individual with corn, and one acre is sufficient to
maintain a horse; consequently, the united kingdom contains land enough for the sustenance
of 120 millions of people, and four millions of horses.--Edmunds on Political Economy.

Singing.

The following passage from a letter by the late Carl M. Von Weber appears to be worthy of the
attention of dramatic and other singers:--

"Every singer imparts, though unconsciously, the colouring of his own individual character
to the dramatic character which he sustains. Thus, two singers, the one possessed of a slight
and flexible voice, the other of an organ of great volume and power, will give the same composition
in a manner widely different. The one will, doubtless, be more animated than the other; and
yet both may do justice to the composer, inasmuch as both mark the gradations of passion in
his composition, faithfully and expressively, according to the nature and degree of power possessed
by each. But it is the duty of the music director to prevent the singer from deceiving himself,
by following too exclusively what at first appears to him most suitable. This caution is particularly
necessary with respect to certain passages, but the effect of the whole piece should not suffer
for the sake of some favourite roulade, which the singer must needs introduce."

Culture of Turnips.

Until the beginning of the eighteenth century, this valuable root was cultivated among us only
in gardens or other small spots, for culinary purposes; but Lord Townshend, attending King
George the First on one of his excursions to Germany, in the quality of secretary of State,
observed the turnip cultivated in open and extensive fields, as fodder for cattle, and spreading
fertility over lands naturally barren; and on his return to England he brought over with him
some of the seed, and strongly recommended the practice which he had witnessed to the adoption
of his own tenants, who occupied a soil similar to that of Hanover. The experiment succeeded;
the cultivation of field turnips gradually spread over the whole county of Norfolk; and in
the course of time it has made its way into every other district of England. The reputation
of the county as an agricultural district dates from the vast improvements of heaths, wastes,
sheepwalks, and warrens, by enclosure and manuring--the fruit of the zealous exertions of Lord
Townshend and a few neighbouring land-owners--which were, ere long, happily imitated by others.
Since these improvements were effected, rents have risen in that county from one or two shillings
to fifteen or twenty shillings per acre; a country of sheep-walks and rabbit-warrens has been
rendered highly productive; and by dint of management, what was thus gained has been preserved
and improved even to the present moment. Some of the finest corn-crops in the world are now
grown upon lands which, before the introduction of the turnip husbandry, produced a very scanty
supply of grass for a few lean and half-starved rabbits. Mr. Colquhoun, in his "Statistical
Researches," estimated the value of the turnip crop annually grown in this country at fourteen
millions; but when we further recollect that it enables the agriculturist to reclaim and cultivate
land which, without its aid, would remain in a hopeless state of natural barrenness; that it
leaves the land so clean and in such fine condition, as almost to insure a good crop of barley
and a kind plant of clover, and that this clover is found a most excellent preparative for
wheat, it will appear that the subsequent advantages derived from a crop of turnips must infinitely
exceed its estimated value as fodder for cattle. If we were, therefore, asked to point out
the individual who, in modern times, has proved the greatest benefactor to the community, we
should not hesitate to fix upon the ingenious nobleman, whom the wits and courtiers of his
own day were pleased to laugh at as "Turnip Townshend."

Coals in the East.

The Dutch newspapers state, that extensive coal mines have been discovered in Sumatra and Bantam.

Naphtha

Has been found to burn much better than other oils in mines where bad air prevails, and is
less injurious to the health of the workmen. Oil of colza and tallow are extinguished, where
naphtha, petroleum, and oil of bone, continue burning.

Fossils.

Plates of above 600 fossil bones, (remains of a former world) recently discovered in the neighbourhood
of Issoire, in France, are preparing for publication. They belong to more than 50 species of
animals, now extinct; among which are elephants, horses, tapirs, rhinoceri, eleven or twelve
kinds of stags, large cats, oxen, bears, dogs, otters, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

POTIER, THE FRENCH "LISTON."

Potier, generally speaking--and it is the same with our own Liston--has never Actually observed
any thing of what he presents to us. It is the spontaneous effusion of his own feelings--the
immediate creation of his own mind--frequently arising at the moment at which we see it, and
therefore never to be seen a second time--but always generated by the actor himself, and never
mixed up with any thing else of an extraneous nature. This is one cause of the extraordinary
variety of this actor, and consequently of his extraordinary popularity in his own country.
We never tire of going to see him, because he is never the same on any two nights--or rather
he never performs the same character twice in the same manner. It is also the secret of his
unrivalled originality. There are but very few characters in which he can repeat himself, even
if he would. And those are such as depend for their comicality upon collateral circumstances
connected with them, rather than upon any thing essential to themselves.

There are some persons whose every look, feature, expression, and tone of voice conduce to
comic effects; and many an actor has owed his success more to these than to any mental qualities
or dispositions corresponding with them; or has even been successful in spite of these latter
being in no degree adapted to the profession which circumstances have induced him to adopt.
In proof of this fact, comic actors are quite as often dull and solemn people, as droll ones,
in private life. The most remarkable instance of a face being a fortune, in this respect, is
our own Liston. If he had not possessed a comic countenance, nothing could have prevented him
from being a tragic actor, or have made him a comic one; for it is well understood that all
his inclinations led him in that direction. The truth is, that Liston's style of acting is
too chaste and natural to have been so universally popular as it is, but for the irresistible
drollery of his features--which are the finest farce that ever was written. Now in this respect,
as in all others, Potier differs from his contemporaries.

His voice, his face, and his person altogether, are in themselves antidotes to mirth, and might
almost be supposed to set it at defiance. He might play the Apothecary, in Romeo and Juliet,
or the Anatomie Vivante, without painting for them--as Stephen Kemble used to play their antithesis,
Falstaff, without stuffing. And yet, instead of this seeming contradiction counteracting the
essentially comic turn of his mind, the latter is so completely paramount, that it changes
every thing within its reach to its own complexion.--New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRAGMENT OF THE NARRATIVE OF A STUDENT AT LAW.

This is a portion of what the writer calls "a series of the most singular and mysterious events,"
commenced January 29,1791. It is perhaps a romance of real life, although there is something
in it beyond probability--but nothing impossible. Our student is at first almost cut by an
acquaintance for neglecting to notice him in the park, when in fact he was not in the park:
the hall butler of the Temple proves by the parchment that he dined there four days of term,
when he was sick, and some distance from town: next he is cut by a second acquaintance for
not recognising him at a masquerade: then a similar affair occurs with a beautiful girl in
----- square; at the Theatre; and on the Serpentine. He is next recognised by an old friend
at a gaming-table, who mentions the sale of an estate there for his last stake, which property
our student really had sold, though under different circumstances; and then rejected by his
chère amie for a slight which he never offered. The last event or link of this mysterious chain
is familiarly narrated as follows:--

In returning one morning from Westminster, as I was passing through one of those small courts
between Essex-street and Norfolk-street, (for of late I had sought the most retired ways,)
I observed that two persons, of rather mean appearance, seemed to be dogging my footsteps.
Uneasy at this circumstance, I hastened directly on to my chambers. I had, however, scarcely
seated myself, when my servant informed me that two men wished to speak to me. On being admitted,
they told me that they were officers of the police, and that they had a warrant to arrest me
on a charge of felony. Surprise at the moment prevented my speaking; but as soon as I recovered
myself I offered to accompany them to the magistrate. He was sitting, and the witnesses being
in attendance, my examination took place immediately. A young man, of gentleman-like address,
swore, that on the preceding evening he had been induced by one of his friends to visit one
of the gambling-houses in the Haymarket--that he there saw me both playing and betting very
rashly--that I appeared to be losing--that at length I quitted the room, and that soon afterwards
his friend and himself followed. Now came the accusation. He swore, that just as he was leaving
the door he felt some person drawing his purse from his pocket--that he immediately pursued
the man, and at the corner of Jermyn-street seized me. That at first I submitted, and he dragged
me to one of the lamps, and there most distinctly saw my countenance, when at that moment,
by some piece of adroitness, which he could not explain, I slipped from his grasp, and instantly
disappeared. His friend corroborated the story. The magistrate, after cautioning me, and expressing
his regret at seeing a person of my appearance before him, asked me whether I wished to say
any thing in my defence, I answered that I was the victim of some secret and devilish conspiracy,
and that I would prove that I was at my chambers on the night in question. "I hope you may
be able to do so," said the magistrate; "but in the mean time it is, my duty to commit you;"
and I was conducted to gaol in a hackney-coach. I immediately summoned one or two of my friends,
and after laying open to them the circumstances in which I had been placed, we concerted the
best means of defence. My laundress could swear that I was in chambers the whole of the evening
when the robbery was committed; and though this was the only direct evidence in my favour,
yet I assembled at least a dozen persons, men of repute and station, as witnesses to my character.
The trial excited prodigious interest, but what was that interest to the agony with which I
regarded the issue! Should I be convicted, my mysterious enemies would enjoy, in triumph, my
disgrace and degradation, and might probably proceed by the same diabolical contrivances to
attempt even my life. The day came, and I was arraigned among a herd of common felons; but
the consciousness of my innocence, and the hope of establishing it, supported my heart. No
sooner had I heard the witnesses for the prosecution, than that hope died within me. A number
of persons deposed, that on the night in question they had seen me in the gambling-house; but
they were men of indifferent character, and not personally acquainted with me. At last, with
astonishment and horror I saw my venerable friend, Mr. B----, put into the box, and heard him
swear in positive terms that he was present in the room, and saw me at play. My defence availed
nothing. The wretched old woman, whom I produced, as the court and jury believed, to establish
my defence by perjury, was immediately discredited, and the jury returned a verdict of guilty.
I was sentenced to six months' imprisonment. My feelings I will not attempt to describe.

During my confinement I made the most energetic attempts to reconcile myself to my fatal destiny.
I formed a plan for my future life, complete in every particular. My character being destroyed,
and most of my friends alienated, I determined to convert my property into money, and to seek
a refuge in the United States. At length the term of my imprisonment approached its close,
and on the 30th of September, 1791, I was liberated--my flesh creeps as I name the day.

I waited in the prison till it was dusk. Finding that I had the key of my chambers upon my
person, I resolved, in the first instance, to visit once again the scene of my former tranquil
studies. Before I reached the Temple the gates had been closed, and the gatekeeper, as I entered,
eyed me with an unpleasant curiosity. I reached my chambers. There was still light sufficient
to enable me to select some papers which I particularly wished to secure. I entered the chambers
and walked in to my sitting-room, but suddenly stopped on seeing a figure reclining on the
sofa. My library-table was before him, covered with law books. At first I imagined that my
laundress had permitted some stranger to occupy my rooms during my incarceration. As I entered
the chamber the figure rose, and with feelings of indescribable horror I perceived the semblance
of myself--

--"And my flesh's hair upstood, 'Twas mine own similitude."

--I cannot relate what followed, for my senses deserted me. On recovering, my mysterious visiter
had departed without leaving the slightest clue by which I might fathom the impenetrable secret
of my persecutions. I have sometimes imagined that they arose from one of those wonderful natural
resemblances which in some instances appear to be well authenticated; but, natural or supernatural,
they changed the current of my life. Unable to endure the disgrace of being pointed at as a
convicted felon, I converted my property into money, and, under another name, I now live respected
in a foreign land.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

"FASHIONABLE TALES."

Lord Normanby has written one of the best, if not the best, of this class of works, the tendency
of which is in most instances of questionable character. But they give a tone to the reading
taste of the day, as the recent circumstance of two of them forming the first subject of three
literary reviews will sufficiently attest. The work to which we specially allude, is Matilda,
a Tale of the Day, the noble author of which has just produced another of the same stamp, entitled
Yes and No, to whose sketches and portraits we shall shortly introduce our readers. It will
be seen that his lordship is no mean artist, nor does he belong to the novel-making tribe,
whose hole-and-corner curiosity has made us as familiar with the Corso as we are with our own
Bond-street. But the following snatch from Yes and No proves that these smatterers of fashion--these
clippers of reputation--are encouraged by some portion of that class whose vanities they affect
to expose:--

SCENE--A "Hall" in the Country.

"It is always as well here to know who one's next neighbour is," continued Fitzalbert, "for
this is not one of those snug parties where one can do or say what one pleases without observation."
"How do you mean?" asked Germain. "Why, Lady Boreton encourages these literary poachers on
the manors, or rather manners of high life; she gives a sort of right of free chase to all
cockney sportsmen to wing one's follies in a double-barrelled duodecimo, or hunt one's eccentricities
through a hot-pressed octavo. Not that they are, generally speaking, very formidable shots--they
often bring down a different bird from the one they aimed at, and sometimes shut their eyes
and blaze away at the whole covey; which last is, after all, the best way. Their coming here
to pick out individuals is needless trouble. Do you know the modern recipe for a finished picture
of fashionable life? Let a gentlemanly man, with a gentlemanly style, take of foolscap paper
a few quires; stuff them well with high-sounding titles--dukes and duchesses, lords and ladies,
ad libitum. Then open the peerage at random, pick a supposititious author out of one page of
it, and fix the imaginary characters upon some of the rest; mix it all up with quantum suff.
of puff, and the book is in a second edition before ninety-nine readers out of a hundred have
found out the one is as little likely to have written, as the others to have done what is attributed
to them."

Again--here is a picture of the guests: "Captains that have been to the North Pole; chemists
who can extract ice from caloric; transatlantic travellers and sedentary bookworms; some authors,
who own to anonymous publications they have never written; and others who are suspected of
those they deny; besides the usual quantum of young ladies and gentlemen, who rest their claims
to distinction upon the traditionary deeds of their great grandfathers."

       *       *       *       *       *

SOCIETY OF UNITED IRISHMEN.

At the head of the table, which occupied the centre of the apartment, and in an arm-chair raised
by a few steps from the floor, sat the president of the society of United Irishmen. He alone
was covered, and though plainly dressed, there was an air of high breeding and distinction
about him; while in his bland smile were exhibited, the open physiognomy of pleasantness, and
love-winning mildness, which still mark the descendants of the great Anglo-Norman Lords of
the Pale, the Lords of Ormond, Orrery, and Arran, the Mount Garrets, and Kilkennys,--in former
times, the great oligarchs of Ireland, and in times more recent, the grace and ornament of
the British court.

The president was the Honourable Simon Butler: beside him, on a lower seat, sat the secretary.
His uncovered head, and unshaded temples received the full light of the suspended lamp. It
was one of those finely chiselled heads, which arrest the imagination, and seem to bear incontrovertible
evidence of the certainty of physiognomical science. A dress particularly studied, was singularly
contrasted with the athletic figure and antique bearing of this interesting looking person.
For though unpowdered locks, and the partial uncovering of a muscular neck, by the loose tie
of the silk handkerchief had something of the simplicity of republicanism, yet the fine diamond
chat sparkled at the shirt breast, and the glittering of two watch-chains (the foppery of the
day), exhibited an aristocracy of toilet, which did not exactly assort with the Back-lane graces.
The secretary of the United Irishmen, was Archibald Hamilton Rowan.

On the opposite side sat a small, well-formed, and animated person, who was talking with singular
vivacity of look and gesture, to one of extremely placid and even formal appearance. The first
was the gay, gallant, and patriotic founder of the society, Theobald Wolfe Tone, the other
was the celebrated and clever Doctor Drennan, a skilful physician, and an elegant writer, who
might have passed in appearance, for the demure minister of some remote village-congregation
of the Scotch kirk.

A tail, elegant, and sentimental looking person sat near to them, in an attitude of interested
attention, listening to the speaker, to whom, it seemed, he was about to reply. It was Thomas
Addas Emmet, the son of the state physician of Ireland--then a young lawyer of great promise,
and now the Attorney-General of New York. The handsome and animated Dr. Mackenna, one of the
most popular writers of the day, and Oliver Bond, the representative of the most reputable
class of merchants, had grouped forward their intelligent heads; while one who brought no personal
beauty to the cause (that letter of recommendation to all causes), James Napper Tandy, stood
waiting with a packet of letters, which he had received in his former quality of secretary
to the meeting.

While other leaders of the Union distinguished for their birth, talents, or principles (and
it is remarkable that they were all protestants), filled up the seats near the head of the
table; more mixed groups less distinguished by the beau sang, which then came forth, in the
fine forms of the genuine Irish gentry of both sects, were congregated in the obscurity of
the bottom of the room--Lady Morgan's O'Briens and O'Flahertys.

       *       *       *       *       *

STORY OF RICHARD PLANTAGENET, SON OF RICHARD III.

It was on this awful night (the night preceding the battle of Bosworth Field), according to
a letter which I have read from Dr. Thomas Brett to Dr. William Warren, president of Trinity-hall,
that the king took his last farewell in his tent of Richard Plantagenet, his natural son, who
himself thus describes that interview:--"I was boarded with a Latin schoolmaster, without knowing
who my parents were, till I was fifteen or sixteen years old; only a gentleman, who acquainted
me he was no relative of mine, came once a quarter and paid for my board, and took care to
see that I wanted for nothing. One day this gentleman took me and carried me to a great fine
house, where I passed through several stately rooms, in one of which he left me, bidding me
stay there. Then a man richly dressed, with a star and garter, came to me, asked me some questions,
talked kindly to me, and gave me some money. Then the fore-mentioned gentleman returned, and
conducted me back to my school.

"Some time after, the same gentleman came to me again with a horse and proper accoutrements,
and told me I must take a journey with him into the country. We went into Leicestershire, and
came to Bosworth Field, and I was carried to king Richard's tent. The king embraced me, and
told me I was his son. 'But, child,' said he, 'to-morrow I must fight for my crown. And assure
yourself if I lose that, I will lose my life too; but I hope to preserve both. Do you stand
on yonder hill, where you may see the battle out of danger, and when I have gained the victory,
come to me; I will then own you to be mine, and take care of you. But if I should be so unfortunate
as to lose the battle, then shift as well as you can, and take care to let no one know that
I am your father; for no mercy will be shown to any one so nearly related to me.' The king
then presented me with a purse of gold, and giving me a farewell embrace, dismissed me from
his tent. I followed the king's directions; and when I saw the battle lost and the king killed,
I hastened back to London, sold my horse and fine clothes, and the better to conceal myself
from all suspicion of being son to a king, and that I might have the means to live by my honest
labour, I put myself apprentice to a bricklayer. But having a competent skill in the Latin
tongue, I was unwilling to lose it; and having an inclination also to reading, and no delight
in the conversation of those I am obliged to work with, I generally spend all the time I have
to spare in reading by myself."

The letter says, "When Sir Thomas Moyle built Eastwell House, near London, about the year,
1544, he observed his chief bricklayer, whenever he left off work, retired with a book. Sir
Thomas had curiosity to know what book the man read, but was some time before he could discover
it; he still putting the book up if any one came toward him. However, at last Sir Thomas surprised
him, and snatched the book from him, and looking into it found it to be Latin. He then examined
him, and finding he pretty well understood that language, he inquired how he came by his learning.
Hereupon the man told him, as he had beer, a good master to him, he would venture to trust
him with a secret he had never before revealed to any one. He then related the above story.
Sir Thomas said, 'You are now old, and almost past your labour; I will give you the running
of my kitchen as long as you live.' He answered, 'Sir, you have a numerous family; I have been
used to live retired, give me leave to build a house of one room for myself in such a field,
and there, with your good leave, I will live and die.' Sir Thomas granted his request, he built
his house, and there continued to his death. Richard Plantagenet was buried the 22nd day of
December, anno ut supra ex registro de Eastwell sub 1550. This is all the register mentions
of him, so that we cannot say whether he was buried in the church or church-yard; nor is there
now any other memorial of him except the tradition in the family, and some little marks where
his house stood. This story my late Lord Heneage, earl of Winchelsea, told me in the year 1720."
Thus lived and died, in low and poor obscurity, the only remaining son of Richard III!

Tale of a Modern Genius.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART OF MOSAIC.

At Rome are many minor fine arts practised, which are wholly unknown in England. The most remarkable
of them is the Mosaic Manufactory, carried on at the cost of government: and its fruits are
theirs. The workmen are constantly occupied in copying paintings for altarpieces, though the
works of the first masters are fast mouldering away on the walls of forgotten churches. They
will soon be lost forever; it is yet possible to render them imperishable by means of Mosaic
copies; and why is it not done? The French, at Milan, set an example of this, by copying, in
mosaic, the Last Supper of Leonardo da Vinci; but it was their plan to do much for Milan, and
nothing for Rome; and the invaluable frescos of Michael Angelo, Raphael, Domenichino, and Guido,
were left to perish.

It takes about seven or eight years to finish a mosaic copy of a painting of the ordinary historical
size, two men being constantly employed. It generally costs from eight to ten thousand crowns,
but the time and expense are of course regulated by the intricacy of the subject and quantity
of work. Raphael's Transfiguration, cost about 12,000 crowns, and the labour of nine years,
ten men constantly working at it. The late works, are, however, of very inferior execution.

The slab upon which the mosaic is made, is generally of Travertine, (or Tiburtine) stones,
connected together by iron cramps. Upon the surface of this a mastic or cementing paste, is
gradually spread, as the progress of the work makes it wanted, which forms the adhesive ground,
or bed, on which the mosaic is laid. This mastic is composed of fine lime from burnt marble,
and finely powdered Travertine stone, mixed to the consistence of a paste, with strong linseed
oil. Into this paste are stuck the smalts, of which the mosaic picture is formed. They are
a mixed species of opaque vitrified glass, partaking of the mixed nature of stone and glass,
and composed of a variety of minerals and materials, coloured for the most part, with different
metallic oxydes. Of these no less than 1,700 different shades are in use; they are manufactured
in Rome in the form of long, slender rods like wires, of different degrees of thickness, and
are cut into pieces of the requisite sizes, from the smallest pin point to an inch. When the
picture is completely finished, and the cement thoroughly dried, it is highly polished.

Mosaic, though an ancient art, is not merely a revived, but an improved one; for the Romans
only used coloured marbles, or natural stones in its composition, which admitted of comparatively
little variety; but the invention of smalts has given it a far wider range, and made the imitation
of painting far closer. The mosaic work at Florence is totally different to this, being merely
inlaying in pietre dure, or natural precious stones, of every variety, which forms beautiful,
and very costly imitations of shells, flowers, figures, &c. but bears no similitude to painting.

Besides this government establishment at Rome, there are hundreds of artists, or artisans,
who carry on the manufactory of mosaics on a small scale. Snuff-boxes, rings, necklaces, brooches,
earrings, &c. are made in immense quantity; and since the English flocked in such numbers to
Rome, all the streets leading to the Piazza di Spagna are lined with the shops of these Musaicisti,
&c.

Oriental shells are made at Rome into beautiful cameos, by the white outer surface being cut
away upon the deeper coloured internal part, forming figures in minute bassi relievi. The subjects
are chiefly taken from ancient gems, and sometimes from sculpture and painting. The shells
used for this purpose are chiefly brought from the Levant; and these shell cameos make remarkably
beautiful ornaments. Hundreds of artists also find support at Rome, in making casts, sulphurs,
&c. from ancient gems and medals, and in selling or fabricating antiques. Marble and stone-cutting
are also beautifully executed both at Rome and Florence--Abridged, (but interspersed) from
"Rome in the 19th Century."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ****

Moria pur quando vuol non è bisogna mutar ni faccia ni voci per esser un Angelo.--The words
addressed by Lord Herbert of Cherbury, to the beautiful Nun at Murano. (See his Life.)

Translation.

Die when you will, you need not wear At heaven's Court, a form more fair, Than beauty here
on earth has giv'n, Keep but the lovely looks we see--The voice we hear--and you will be An
angel ready made for heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CARD

Left at the Queen's house during the King's illness in March, 1801.

"Captain Blake of the Grenadiers, (George 1st.), was in the regiment of Colonel Murray at the
battle of Preston Pans, in the year 1745. He was left among the dead in the field of action,
with no less than eleven wounds, one so capital as to carry away three inches of his skull.
Has been preserved fifty-six years to relate the event, and enabled by gracious protection,
to make his personal inquiry after his majesty."

       *       *       *       *       *

MARGARET NICHOLSON.

The following is the original, epistle of this famous lunatic to the matron of Bedlam; No other
proof is necessary of her insanity:--

Madam,--I've recollected perhaps 'tis necessary to acquaint you upon what account I continue
here yet, maim, after making you privy to my great concerns, madam I only wait for alteration
of the globe which belongs to this house, maim and if the time is almost expired I wish to
know it maim. Tho' I am not unhealthy, yet I am very weak, know maim therefore I hope it won't
be long maim.

I am, madam, your most obedient,

Wednesday. M. NICHOLSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY ARCHER, Formerly Miss West, lived to a good age--a proof that cosmetics are not so fatal
as has been supposed. Nature had given her a fine aquiline nose, like, the princesses of the
house of Austria, and she did not fail to give herself a complexion. She resembled a fine old
wainscotted painting with the face and features shining through a thick incrustation of copal
varnish.

Her ladyship was for many years the wonder of the fashionable world, envied by all the ladies
that frequented the court. She had a splendid house in Portland-place, with et caetera equal
in brilliancy and beauty to, or rather surpassing those of any of her contemporaries. Magnificent
appendages were a sort of scenery. She gloried in milk-white horses to her carriage--the coachman
and footman in grand shewy liveries--the carriage lined with a silk calculated to exhibit the
complexion, &c. &c.

I recollect, however, to have seen the late Mrs. Robinson go far beyond all this in the rich
exuberance of her genius; a yellow lining to her landau, with a black footman, to contrast
with her beautiful countenance and fascinating figure, and thus render both more lovely. Lady
Archer's house at Barnes Elms Terrace, had an elegance of ornaments and drapery to strike the
senses, and yet powerfully addressed to the imagination. She could give an insinuating interest
to the scenes about her; which other eyes were viewing. Her kitchen garden and pleasure ground
of five acres--the Thames running in front as if appertaining to the grounds--the apartments
most tastefully decorated in the Chinese style--a fine conservatory opening, into the principal
apartment with grapes, slow peaches, &c. at the end a magnificent sofa, with a superb curtain
all displayed with a peculiar grace and to the greatest advantage. Much praise was due to her
arrangement of green and hot-house plants, the appellations of which she was well acquainted
with, as also everything relating to their history.--from the Papers of the late Alexander
Stephens, Esq.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO SUBSCRIBERS.

Several of our early Numbers (which were unavoidably for sometime out of print), having been
recently reprinted, we suggest to our Subscribers the present opportunity of Completing their
Sets. Although public patronage has long kept us in countenance, it does not enable us to keep
all our Numbers constantly in print.

The Editor of "THE MIRROR" has in the press, ARCANA OF SCIENCE AND ART, FOR 1828:

Being the popular Discoveries and Improvements of the past Year, in Antiquities Architecture,
Astronomy, Botany, Chemistry, Fine Arts, Geography, Geology, Mechanical Science, Medicine,
Meteorology, Mineralogy, Natural Philosophy, Rural Economy, Statistics, Useful Arts, Zoology. &c.

Abridged from the Transactions of Public Societies, and other Scientific Journals, English
and Foreign, in a closely-printed volume.