THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 19, NO. 546.]    SATURDAY, MAY 12, 1832.    [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. PANCRAS (OLD) CHURCH.

This humble village fane is situated to the north of London, somewhat more than a mile from
Holborn Bars. Persons unacquainted with the site, may hitherto have considered it as part and
parcel of this vast metropolis: but, lo! here it stands amidst much of its primitive, peaceful
rusticity.

Pancras is still, by courtesy, called a village, though its charms may be of the rus-in-urbe
description. It derives its name from the saint to whom the church is dedicated:[1] it was
called St. Pancras when the Survey of Domesday was taken. The parish is of great extent. Mr.
Lysons states it at 2,700 acres of land, including the site of buildings. It is bounded on
the north by Islington, Hornsey, and Finchley; and on the west by Hampstead and Marybone. On
the south it meets the parishes of St. Giles's in the Fields, St. George the Martyr, St. George,
Bloomsbury, and St. Andrew's, Holborn.[2] On the east it is bounded by St. James's, Clerkenwell.
Kentish Town, part of Highgate, Camden Town, and Somer's Town,[3] are comprised within this
parish as hamlets. Mr. Lysons supposes it to have included the prebendal manor of Kentish Town,[4]
or Cantelows, which now constitutes a stall in St. Paul's Cathedral. Among the prebendaries
have been men eminent for their learning and piety: as Lancelot Andrews, bishop of Winchester,
Dr. Sherlock, Archdeacon Paley, and the Rev. William Beloe, B.D. well known by his translation
of Herodotus.

    [1] St. Pancras was a young Phrygian nobleman, who suffered
    death under the Emperor Dioclesian, for his zealous adherence to
    the Christian faith.

    [2] Lysons's Environs, 4to. vol. ii. part ii.

    [3] The parish extends in this direction to the foot of Gray's
    Inn Lane, and includes part of a house in Queen's Square.

    [4] Anciently Kentistonne, where William Bruges, Garter King at
    Arms in the reign of Henry V. had a country-house, at which he
    entertained the emperor Sigismund.

It would occupy too much space to detail the progressive increase of this district. Walk not
there too late." Newcourt, whose work was published in 1700, says that houses had been built
near the church. The first important increase of the parish took place in the neighbourhood
of Tottenham Court Road.

"Pancras Church," says Norden, "standeth all alone, as utterly forsaken, old and wether-beten,
which, for the antiquity thereof, it is thought not to yield to Paules in London." It is of
rude Gothic architecture, built of stones and flints, which are now covered with plaster. Mr.
Lysons says, "It is certainly not older than the fourteenth century, perhaps in Norden's time
it had the appearance of great decay; the same building, nevertheless, repaired from time to
time, still remains; looks no longer 'old and wether-beten,' and may still exist perhaps to
be spoken of by some antiquary of a future century. It is a very small structure, consisting
only of a nave and chancel; at the west end is a low tower, with a kind of dome."[5] Mr. Lysons
speaks of the disproportionate size of the church to the population of the parish; but since
his time another church has been erected, the splendour and size of which in every respect
accord with the increased wealth and numbers of the parish.

    [5] The visitation of the church in the year 1251, mentions a
    very small tower, a good slope font, and a small marble stone
    ornamented with copper to carry the Pax.

The church and churchyard of Pancras have long been noted as the burial-place of such Roman
Catholics as die in London and its vicinity.[6] Many of the tombs exhibit a cross, and the
initials R.I.P. (Requiescat in pace), which initials, or others analogous to them, are always
used by the Catholics on their sepulchral monuments. Mr. Lysons heard it assigned by some of
that persuasion, as a reason for this preference to Pancras as a burial-place, that masses
were formerly said in a church in the south of France, dedicated to the same saint, for the
souls of the deceased interred at St. Pancras in England. After the French revolution, a great
number of ecclesiastics and other refugees, some of them of high rank, were buried in this
churchyard; and in 1811, Mr. Lysons observed that probably about 30 of the French clergy had
on an average been buried at Pancras for some years past: in 1801 there were 41, and in 1802,
32. Mr. Lysons's explanation of this preference to Pancras by the Catholics is, however, disputed
by the author of Ecclesiastical Topography, who observes that a reason more generally given
is, that "Pancras was the last church in England where mass was performed after the Reformation."

    [6] Strype, in his additions to Stowe, says, the Roman Catholics
    have of late effected to be buried at this place.

In the chancel are monuments of Daniel Clarke, Esq. who had been master-cook to Queen Elizabeth;
and of Cooper the artist, whose style approached so near to that of Vandyke, that he has been
called Vandyke in miniature: he taught the author of Hudibras to paint; his wife was sister
to Pope's mother.

In the churchyard are the tombs of Anthony Woodhead, 1678, who was in his day, the great champion
of the Roman Catholic religion, and was reputed to have written the Whole Duty of Man; Lady
Slingsby, whose name occurs as an actress in Dryden and Lee's plays, from 1681 to 1689; Jeremy
Collier, 1726, the pertinacious non-juror, who repressed the immoralities of the stage; Ned
Ward, author of the London Spy, 1731; Leoni, the architect, 1746; Lady Henrietta, wife of Beard,
the vocalist, 1753; Van Bleeck, the portrait-painter; Ravenet, the engraver, 1764; Mazzinghi,
1775, leader of the band at Marylebone Gardens, and father of Mazzinghi, the celebrated composer;
Henry and Robert Rackett, Pope's nephews; Woollett, the engraver, 1785, to whose memory a monument
has been placed in the cloisters of Westminster Abbey; Baron de Wenzel, the celebrated oculist,
1790; Mary Wollestonecraft Godwin, author of a Vindication of the Rights of Woman, 1797; the
Rev. Arthur O'Leary, or Father O'Leary, the amiable Franciscan friar, 1802; Paoli, the patriotic
Corsican, 1807; Walker editor of the Pronouncing Dictionary; the Chevalier d'Eon, 1810, of
epicene notoriety; and Packer, the comedian, 1806, who is said to have performed 4,852 times,
besides walking in processions; Edwards, professor of Perspective, 1806; Scheemakers, the statuary,
1808.

In the Beauties of England and Wales, it is stated that 23 acres of land belong to the church;
and the great increase of buildings renders these of considerable value; though it is not known
to whom the church is indebted for this possession.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELEGY.

FROM THE GERMAN.

(For the Mirror.)

  Through oak-woods green,
    A silver sheen,
  Sweet moon, from thee
    Afforded me
  A tranquil joy,
    Me, then, a happy boy.
  Still makes thy light
    My window bright,
  But can no more
    Lost peace restore:
  My brow is shaded,
    My cheek with weeping faded.
  Thy beams, O moon,
    Will glitter soon,
  As softly clear,
    Upon my bier:
  For soon, earth must
    Conceal in youth my dust.

  C.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLEOPATRA'S NEEDLES.

(For the Mirror.)

These remains of ancient art are destined to be removed to Europe.[7] The palace of Cleopatra
was built upon the walls facing the port of Alexandria, Egypt, having a gallery on the outside,
supported by several fine columns. Towards the eastern part of the palace are two obelisks,
vulgarly called Cleopatra's Needles. They are of Thebaic stone, and covered with hieroglyphics;
one is overturned, broken, and lying under the sand; the other is on its pedestal. These two
obelisks, each of them of a single stone, are about sixty feet high, by seven feet square at
the base. The Egyptian priests called these obelisks the sun's fingers, because they served
as stiles or gnomons to mark the hours on the ground. In the first ages of the world they were
made use of to transmit to posterity the principal precepts of philosophy, which were engraven
on them in hieroglyphics.

  "Between the statues, Obelisks were placed:
  And the learned walls with hieroglyphics grac'd.
                            Pope.

In after ages they were used to immortalize the actions of heroes, and the memory of persons
beloved.

    [7] One is stated to be on its way to England; our parliament
    has voted 10,000l to defray the expense. The other needle is
    destined for France.

The first obelisk we know of was that raised by Rameses, King of Egypt, in the time of the
Trojan war. Augustus erected an obelisk at Rome, in the Campus Martius, which served to mark
the hours on an horizontal dial, drawn on the pavement. This obelisk was brought from Egypt,
and was said to have been formed by Sesostris, near a thousand years before Christ. It was
used by Manlius for the same purpose for which it was originally destined, namely, to measure
the height of the sun.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DYING MAIDEN'S PARDON TO HER FAITHLESS LOVER.

FROM THE FRENCH.

(For the Mirror.)

  If death's keen anguish thou would'st charm
    Ere speeds his fatal dart,
  Come, place thine hand--while yet 'tis warm,
    Upon my breaking heart.

  And though remorse--thou may'st not feel
    When its last throb is o'er,
  Thou'lt say--"that heart which lov'd so well,
    Shall passion feel no more."

  E'en love for thee forsakes my soul--
    Thy work, relentless see,
  Near as I am life's destin'd gaol,
    I'm frozen--less than thee.

  Yet take this heart--I ne'er had more
    To give thee in thy need:
  Search well--for at its inmost core,
    Thy pardon thou may'st read.

T.R.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAITS OF IRISH CHARACTER.

(For the Mirror.)

A gentleman residing in the vicinity of Dublin, found, notwithstanding the protection of a
thick, and thorny hedge, that great depredations were committed on his garden and paddocks;
so he inclosed them with a high, strong wall. As he kept cows, and had more milk than was sufficient
for his family, he distributed the overplus amongst his poor neighbours. One day, inspecting
in person, this distribution, he saw a woman attending with her pails, who, he was tolerably
certain did not require such assistance. "You, here! my good friend," said he, "I thought you
kept a cow?"

"Ay, plase yer honour's honour, and two it was that I once kept, the craters!"

"Once, why don't you keep them now?"

"Ough! 'tis yeaself must answer that question, for why? the bastes did well enough afore your
rav'rence run up that bit o' wall round your fields, seein' the cows lived off your grass;
but sorra for me now, I've sold 'em both, by rason I couldn't keep 'em no longer."

An English gentleman, on a tour in Ireland, was beset at a fine waterfall by numerous beggars;
one woman was particularly clamorous for relief, but Mr. R. instructed by his guide, said to
her, "My good friend, you cannot possibly want relief, as you keep several cows, and have a
very profitable farm; indeed I cannot bestow my charity upon you." The woman, looking sulky,
and detected, immediately pointed to another, exclaiming, "Then give to her, for she's got
nothing!" The stranger in Dublin is particularly requested to send all beggars to an institution
in Copper Alley, for their relief. Being once much importuned by an old man for money, we desired
him to go to this place. "I can't," said he.

"Why not?"

"Becase 'tis a bad place for the poor."

"How so? don't they give you anything to eat?"

"Ah, yes, yes, but the thing is, my jewel, they wont by no manes give a poor body anything
to drink." The intelligent reader will not be at a loss to translate the complaint of thirsty Pat.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH CRUELTY.

During the late French Revolution, one of the royalist soldiers having his horse shot under
him by a pupil of the Polytechnic School, and finding when thus brought down, that he could
not regain his feet and resume a posture of defence, but was entirely at the mercy of his ferocious
young adversary, he immediately surrendered his sword, exclaiming, "I am your prisoner, and
entreat of you mercy and life." To which the generous and heroic youth replied, "No prisoners,
no mercy!" and taking from his pocket a pike-head or some similar rough weapon, deliberately
drove it into the unfortunate soldier's heart!

       *       *       *       *       *

EFFRONTERY.

A nobleman being, it is said, some years since, in the shop of a celebrated London shoemaker,
saw, pass through it, a very handsome young woman, "Who is that fine girl?" said he.

"My daughter," replied the cord-wainer, "with sixty thousand pounds at your lordship's service."

       *       *       *       *       *

A BLUNDER.

Literary topics came under discussion one evening in a small social circle, of which the writer
made one, and particularly the autobiographical works, and personal memoirs, now so much in
vogue. A gentleman then stated, that having seen much of the world, he thought he must follow
the fashion, and one day favour it with his own life and adventures. Numerous ladies were to
figure in his book, which was, in fact, as he modestly gave the present company to understand,
to be a complete chronicle of the flirtations and conquests of himself, and male allies, with
letters, portraits, &c. and names in full. "But," remarked a lady, humouring the jest, "if
you do render your book so very personal, are you not afraid of the consequences?"

"Not at all," replied the embryo author very gravely, "for though I shall enjoy the remarks
of the world, upon my autobiography, they cannot affect me, as it will of course be a posthumous
work."

       *       *       *       *       *

COOL COURAGE.

During the disastrous fire of the Kent East Indiaman, a lady on board exhibited a very singular
instance of sang froid and presence of mind. Being in one of the cabins, with a large, helpless,
despairing, and of course, most troublesome party, chiefly of her own sex, "all hands" of the
other being "turned up," we presume, to check the advances of the devouring element, she proposed,
by way of keeping them quiet, to make tea for them, and we believe her proposal was accepted,
and had the desired effect.

Great Marlow, Bucks.

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABSTRACT STUDIES.

(For the Mirror.)

Demosthenes to be the more removed from noise, and less subject to distraction, caused a small
chamber to be made under ground, in which he shut himself up sometimes for whole months, shaving
half his head and only half his face, that he might not be in a condition to go abroad. It
was there, by the light of a small lamp, he composed his admirable Orations, which were said
by those who envied him, to smell of the oil, to imply that they were too elaborate. He rose
very early, and used to say, that he was sorry when any workman was at his business before
him. He copied Thucydides' history eight times with his own hand, in order to render the style
of that great man familiar to him.

Adrian Turnebus, a French critic, was so indefatigable in his study, that it was said of him,
as it was of Budaeus, that he spent some hours in study even on the day he was married.

Frederick Morel had so strong an attachment to study, that when he was informed of his wife's
being at the point of death, he would not lay down his pen, till he had finished what he was
upon, and when she was dead, as she was before they could prevail on him to stir, he was only
heard to reply coldly, "I am very sorry, she was a good woman."

Sir Isaac Newton, when he had any mathematical problems or solutions in his mind, would never
quit the subject on any account; dinner was often known to be three hours ready for him before
he could be brought to table. His man often said, when he was getting up in the morning, and
began to dress, he would, with one leg in his breeches, sit down again on the bed, and remain
there for hours before he got his clothes on.

Mr. Abraham Sharp, the astronomer, through his love of study, was very irregular as to his
meals, which he frequently took in the following manner: a little square hole, something like
a window, made a communication between the room where he usually studied, and another chamber
in the house, where a servant could enter, and before this hole he had contrived a sliding
board, the servant always placing his victuals in the hole, without speaking a word or making
the least noise, and when he had leisure he visited it to see what it contained, and to satisfy
his hunger or thirst. But it often happened that the breakfast, the dinner, and the supper
remained untouched by him, so deeply was he engaged in his calculations and solemn musings.
At one time after his provisions had been neglected for a long season, his family became uneasy,
and resolved to break in upon his retirement; he complained, but with great mildness, that
they had disconcerted his thoughts in a chain of calculations which had cost him intense application
for three days successively. On an old oak table, where for a long course of years he used
to write, cavities might easily be perceived, worn by the perpetual rubbing of his arms and
elbows.[8]

SWAINE.

    [8] Mr. Colton used to say that he wrote his treasurable,
    "Lacon: or, many things in a few words," upon a small, rickety
    deal table. We perceive from Galignani's Messenger, that Mr.
    Colton put an end to his existence, a few days since, at
    Fontainbleau, it is stated in consequence of the dread of a
    surgical operation which it had become necessary that he should
    undergo.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONTRAST.

The title of Lord Mulgrave's clever novel is sufficiently explained by the hero, Lord Castleton,
a man of high refinement, marrying an unsophisticated, uneducated peasant girl. The scenes
and incidents of her introduction into the fashionable world are replete with humour, yet true
to the life. Thus, how naturally are her new Ladyship's embarrassments told:--

