The New York Times

CURRENT HISTORY OF THE EUROPEAN WAR

JANUARY 9, 1915.

What Americans Say to Europe

In the Supreme Court of Civilization

Argued by James M. Beck.

THE NEW YORK TIMES submitted the evidence contained in the official "White Paper" of Great
Britain, the "Orange Paper" of Russia, and the "Gray Paper" of Belgium to James M. Beck, late
Assistant Attorney General of the United States and a leader of the New York bar, who has argued
many of the most important cases before the Supreme Court. On this evidence Mr. Beck has argued
in the following article the case of Dual Alliance vs. Triple Entente. It has been widely circulated
in France and Great Britain.

Let us further suppose that each of the contending nations had a sufficient leaven of Christianity
to have its grievances adjudged not by the ethics of the cannon or the rifle, but by the eternal
criterion of justice.

What would be the judgment of that august tribunal?

Any discussion of the ethical merits of this great controversy must start with the assumption
that there is an international morality.

This fundamental axiom, upon which the entire basis of civilization necessarily rests, is challenged
by a small class of intellectual perverts.

Some hold that moral considerations must be subordinated either to military necessity or so-called
manifest destiny. This is the Bernhardi doctrine.

Others teach that war is a beneficent fatality and that all nations engaged in it are therefore
equally justified. On this theory all of the now contending nations are but victims of an irresistible
current of events, and the highest duty of the State is to prepare itself for the systematic
extermination, when necessary or expedient, of its neighbors.

Notwithstanding the clever platitudes under which both these doctrines are veiled, all morally
sane minds are agreed that this war is a great crime against civilization, and the only open
question is, which of the two contending groups of powers is morally responsible for that crime?

Was England justified in declaring war against Germany?

As the last of these questions is the most easily disposed of, it may be considered first.

England's Justification.

England's justification rests upon the solemn Treaty of 1839, whereby Prussia, France, England,
Austria, and Russia "became the guarantors" of the "perpetual neutrality" of Belgium, as reaffirmed
by Count Bismarck, then Chancellor of the North German Confederation, on July 22, 1870, and
as even more recently reaffirmed in the striking fact disclosed in the Belgian "Gray Book."

In the Spring of 1913 a debate was in progress in the Budget Committee of the Reichstag with
reference to the Military Budget.

A year later, on July 31, 1914, Herr von Below, the German Minister at Brussels, assured the
Belgian Department of State that he knew of a declaration which the German Chancellor had made
in 1911, to the effect "that Germany had no intention of violating our neutrality," and "that
he was certain that the sentiments to which expression was given at that time had not changed."
(See Belgian "Gray Book," Nos. 11 and 12.)

Apart from these treaty stipulations, which are only declaration of Belgium's rights as sovereign
nations, The Hague Conference, in which forty-four nations (including Germany) participated,
reaffirmed as an axiom of international law the inherent right of a nation to the sanctity
of its territory.

It seems unnecessary to discuss the wanton disregard of these solemn obligations and protestations,
when the present Chancellor of the German Empire, in his speech to the Reichstag and to the
world on Aug. 4, 1914, frankly admitted that the action of the German military machine in invading
Belgium was a wrong. It virtually rests the case of Germany upon the gospel of Treitschke and
Bernhardi, that each nation is justified in exerting its physical power to the utmost in defense
of its selfish interests and without any regard to considerations of conventional morality.
Might as between nations is the sole criterion of right. There is no novelty in this gospel.
Its only surprising feature is its revival in the twentieth century. It was taught far more
effectively by Machiavelli in his treatise, "The Prince," wherein he glorified the policy of
Cesare Borgia in trampling the weaker States of Italy under foot by ruthless terrorism, unbridled
ferocity, and the basest deception. Indeed, the wanton destruction of Belgium is simply Borgiaism
amplified ten-thousandfold by the mechanical resources of modern war.

This Answer Cannot Satisfy. On that issue the Supreme Court could have no ground for doubt
or hesitation. Its judgment would be speedy and inexorable.

The remaining two issues, above referred to, are not so simple.

I quite appreciate the distinction between the immediate causes of a war and the anterior and
more fundamental causes; nevertheless, with the world in a state of Summer peace on July 23,
1914, an issue, gravely affecting the integrity of nations and the balance of power in Europe,
is suddenly precipitated by the Austrian ultimatum, and thereafter and for the space of about
a week a series of diplomatic communications passed between the Chancelleries of Europe, designed
on their face to prevent a war and yet so ineffective that the war is precipitated and the
fearful Rubicon crossed before the world knew, except imperfectly, the nature of the differences
between the Governments involved. The ethical aspects of this great conflict must largely depend
upon the record that has been made up by the official communications which can, therefore,
be treated as documentary evidence in a litigated case.

A substantial part of that record is already before the court of public opinion in the British
and German "White Papers," the Russian "Orange Paper," and the Belgian "Gray Paper," and the
purpose of this article is to discuss what judgment an impartial and dispassionate court would
render upon the issues thus raised and the evidence thus submitted.

Primarily such a court would be deeply impressed not only by what the record as thus made up
discloses, but also by the significant omissions of documents known to be in existence.

The official defense of England and Russia does not apparently show any failure on the part
of either to submit all of the documents in their possession, but the German "White Paper"
on its face discloses the suppression of documents of vital importance, while Austria has as
yet failed to submit any of the documentary evidence in its possession.

We know from the German "White Paper"--even if we did not conclude as a matter of irresistible
inference--that many important communications passed in this crisis between Germany and Austria,
and it is probable that some communications must also have passed between those two countries
and Italy. Italy, despite its embarrassing position, owes to the world the duty of a full disclosure.
What such disclosure would probably show is indicated by her deliberate conclusion that her
allies had commenced an aggressive war, which released her from any obligation under the Triple
Alliance.

This cannot be an accident.

Austria's Case Against Servia.

To discuss the justice of Austria's grievances against Servia would take us outside the documentary
record and into the realm of disputed facts and would expand this discussion far beyond reasonable
length.

Let us therefore suppose arguendo that our imaginary court would commence its consideration
with the assumption that Austria had a just grievance against Servia, and that the murder of
the Archduke on June 28, 1914, while in fact committed by Austrian citizens of Servian sympathies
on Austrian soil, had its inspiration and encouragement in the political activities either
of the Servian Government or of political organizations of that country.

The question for decision would then be not whether Austria had a just grievance against Servia,
but whether having regard to the obligations which Austria, as well as every other country,
owes to civilization, she proceeded in the right manner to redress her grievance.

The Servian Government had formerly disclaimed any complicity with the assassination and had
pledged itself to punish any Servian citizen implicated therein.

From time to time, from June 28 to July 23, there came semi-inspired intimations from Vienna
that that country intended to act with great self-restraint and in the most pacific manner.
In his speech to the French Chamber of Deputies, Viviani says that Europe had in the interval
preceding July 23 express assurances from Austria that its course would be moderate and conciliatory.
Never was it even hinted that Germany and Austria were about to apply in a time of profound
peace a match to the powder magazine of Europe. It is one of the most significant documents
in the entire correspondence. As the full text of the ultimatum first reached the Foreign Chancelleries
nearly twenty-four hours after its service upon Servia, the other European nations had barely
a day to consider what could be done to preserve the peace of Europe before that peace was
fatally compromised.

[German "White Paper," Annex 1B.]

How could Germany thus indorse the "demands" if it did not know the substance of the ultimatum?

Let us, then, analyze the record as already made up; and for the sake of clearness the events
which preceded the war will be considered chronologically.

He justly observes that

     "a refusal to extend the terms of the ultimatum ... would be
     in contradiction with the very bases of international
     relations."

Concurrently with Sazonof's plea for a little time to preserve the peace of the world, Sir
Edward Grey had seen the German Ambassador on July 24 and had suggested to him that the only
method of preventing the catastrophe was

     "that the four powers, Germany, France, Italy, and ourselves,
     (England,) should work together simultaneously at Vienna and
     St. Petersburg."

To which the only reply of the Austrian Foreign Minister was that their representative in Servia

     "was under instructions to leave Belgrade unless Austrian
     demands were accepted in their integrity by 4 P.M. tomorrow."

[English "White Paper," No. 7.]

Austria's only concession then or subsequently to the cause of peace was the assurance that
Austria would not after its conquest of Servia demand any territory.

The action of Germany on this day, July 24, is most significant. Its Ambassador in England
communicated a note to Sir Edward Grey in which it justified Austro-Hungarian grievances and
ultimatum by saying that

     "under these circumstances the course of procedure and demands
     of the Austro-Hungarian Government can only be regarded as
     equitable and moderate."

The note added:

     "The Imperial Government [Germany] want to emphasize their
     opinion that in the present case there is only question of a
     matter to be settled exclusively between Austria-Hungary and
     Servia, and that the great powers ought seriously to endeavor
     to reserve it to those two immediately concerned."

[English "White Paper," No. 9.]

On July 25, probably to the great surprise of both Germany and Austria, which had definitely
calculated upon Servians non-compliance with the ultimatum, the latter country, under the conciliatory
advice of Russia and England, made a reply in which, at some sacrifice of its self-respect
as a sovereign State, it substantially accepted all but one of the demands of Austria, and
as to that it did not, in terms, refuse it, but expressed its willingness to refer it either
to arbitration or to a conference of the powers.

[English "White Paper," No. 39.]

No court would question for a moment the conclusion that the reply was a substantial acquiescence
in the extreme Austrian demands, nor indeed did either Germany or Austria seriously contend
that it was not.

On July 24 Sir Edward Grey also had asked the German Ambassador to use his good influences
at Vienna to secure an extension of time. To this most reasonable request the answer and action
of the German Government was disingenuous in the extreme.

He added that Germany did not want a general war and "he would do all in his power to prevent
such a calamity."

[English "White Paper," Nos. 11 and 18.]

Immediately on the issuance of the ultimatum the Austrian Foreign Minister, Count Berchtold,
had most inopportunely taken himself to Ischl, where he remained until after the expiration
of the time limit. Access to him proved difficult, and the Russian Chargé at Vienna, having
lodged a pacific protest with the Acting Foreign Minister in order to take no chances, telegraphed
it to Berchtold at Ischl. Nevertheless, Berchtold's apparently designed absence from the capital
was Germany's excuse for its failure to get the time limit extended.

[English "White Paper," No. 17.]

As Russia was the member of the Triple Entente most interested in the fate of Servia, what
proposal could have been more conciliatory or magnanimous? Germany would not interfere in the
latter, but would as an abstract proposition mediate between Russia and Austria. For all practical
purposes the two things were indistinguishable.

How she "co-operated" we shall presently see.

The Austrian Foreign Minister, having launched the ultimatum, absented himself from the capital,
but the Russian Minister at Vienna, as already stated, succeeded in submitting this most reasonable
request verbally to the Acting Foreign Minister, who simply said that he would submit it to
Count Berchtold, but that he could predict with assurance a categorical refusal. Later on that
day (July 25) Russia was definitely advised that no time extension would be granted.

[Russian "Orange Paper," Nos. A colossal snap judgment was to be taken by these pettifogging
diplomats. A timely word from the German Chancellor would have saved the flower of the youth
of Germany and Austria from perishing.

Germany's acceptance "in principle" of a policy which she in practice thwarted suggests the
law-abiding tendencies of that Maine statesman who was "for the Maine prohibition liquor law,
but against its enforcement."

[English "White Paper," Nos. Jagow replied that he could not
     advise Austria to yield."

[Russian "Orange Paper," No. 38.]

Why not? All that Russia and England desired was that a little time and consideration should
be given, without prejudice to the rights or claims of Austria, before the peace of the world
was hopelessly shattered.

What hypocrisy!

[English "White Paper," No. 71.]

At this point the rules of the countries intervened in the dispute. The Kaiser, having returned
from Norway, telegraphed the Czar, under date of July 28, that he was

     "exerting all my influence to endeavor to make Austria-Hungary
     come to an open and satisfying understanding with Russia,"

and invoked the Czar's aid.

[German "White Paper," Annex 20.]

