A cylinder of plate-iron will withstand a gradually applied, evenly distributed, and constant
pressure, one thousandth part of which, acting at one spot, as a blow, would rend its way through,
or establish a crack. This slight rent, giving partial relief to the sudden but comparatively
small force that causes it, would be nothing very serious in itself,--no more so than a rent
produced by the hydraulic press,--if the whole force, equal, perhaps, to that of a thousand
wild horses imprisoned within, did not take instant advantage of it to enlarge the breach and
blow the whole structure to fragments, or, in other words, if it did not permit nearly the
whole of the accumulated heat in the boiler to be at once converted into mechanical motion.
For example, a boiler whose ordinary working pressure is one hundred pounds to the square inch,
which may give an aggregate on the whole surface of five millions of pounds, would not give
way, perhaps, if that pressure were gradually and evenly increased to thirty millions. But
if the water is allowed to get so low that some part of the plate exposed to the fire is no
longer covered with it, that part will directly become far hotter than the water or the mass
of the steam,--dry steam having no more power to carry away the excess of heat than so much
air. After that, when the water rises again, the first wave or wallop that strikes the overheated
plate absorbs the excess of heat, and its conversion into steam of higher pressure than that
already existing is so sudden that it may be regarded as instantaneous. It is to be remembered
that for every pound of water raised one degree, or heat to that amount absorbed in generating
steam, a force of seven hundred and seventy-two pounds is created. In this case a new or additional
force is created, which, acting in all directions from one point, first takes effect on the
line which joins that point with the nearest opposite point in the wall of the boiler. If it
is not like smiting with the edge of a ponderous battle-axe, it is at least as dangerous as
a cannon ball shot along that line. If the local heat so suddenly absorbed be but enough to
raise ten pounds of water ten degrees, it is equivalent to the force acquired by seventy-seven
thousand two hundred pounds falling through a foot, or of a cannon-ball of one hundred pounds
flying at the rate of more than a mile per second. If by any miracle the boiler should stand
this shock or series of shocks, the pressure becomes equalized, and the overheated plate having
parted with its excess of heat, safety is restored. But if cohesion is anywhere overcome by
the sudden blow, the wild horses stampede in all directions. The boiler, minus the water and
boiler-head perhaps, goes through ceiling, roof, and brick walls, as if they were cobwebs,
and, surrounded with fragments of men and things, is seen descending like a comet through the
neighboring air.

To get rid of this liability to have a Thor-hammer or thunderbolt generated in the stomach
of a steam-engine, at any moment when the vigilance of the engineer happens to be at fault,
something is going to be done. No safety-valve or fusible plug is adequate. The boiler cannot
be all safety-valve. The trouble is, the hammer is not more likely to strike the first of its
terrible series of blows on the valve than anywhere else. A safety-valve, in good order, is
a sovereign precaution against the excess of an equally distributed strain, but it is not an
adequate protection against a shock or unequal strain. The old-fashioned gaugecocks, which
are by no means to be dispensed with, reveal the state of the water in the boiler to the watchful
engineer about as surely as the stethoscope reveals to the doctor the condition of his patient's
lungs. A surer and more convenient indication is the tubular glass gauge, on the fountain principle,
which in its best form is both trustworthy and durable. No well-informed proprietor suffers
his boiler to be without one; but it is not a cure for carelessness. It is only a window for
the vigilant eye to look through, not the eye itself. Steam-boilers will have to be constructed
so that when the subsidence of the water fails to check itself by enlarging the supply, it
shall, before the point of danger is reached, infallibly check the combustion, let off the
steam, and blow a whistle or ring a bell, which the proprietor may, if he pleases, regard as
the official death-knell of the careless engineer. Human vigilance must not be superseded,
but fortified,--as in the case of the watchman watched by the tell-tale clock. The steam-creature
must be so constituted as to refuse to work itself down to the zone where alone unequal strains
are possible; it must cry out in horror and strike work. Mechanically the solution of the problem
is easy, and the enhancement in cost of construction will be nothing, compared to the risk
of loss from these explosions. With this guard against the deficiency of water, steam-power
will become the safest, as it is the most manageable, of all forces that have hitherto been
subsidized by the civilized man.

But there is one more improvement worth mentioning. We do great injustice to our steam-slaves
by the slovenly and unphilosophical way in which we feed them. We take no hints from animal
economy or the laws of dietetics.

Our creature has no regular meals, especially if he is one of the fast kind; but a grimy nurse
stands by, and, opening his mouth every few minutes, crams in a few spoonfuls of the black
pudding. The natural consequence is more or less indigestion and inequality of strength. We
have not yet taken full advantage of the laws of combustion, or adapted our apparatus to the
peculiarities of the best and cheapest fuel. Nature manages more wisely in her machinery. Combustion,
the union of fuel with oxygen, ceases for want of air as well as for want of fuel. In the case
of fuels compounded of carbon and hydrogen, if the air be withheld when the mass is in rapid
combustion, the heat will cause a portion of the fuel to pass off by distillation, unconsumed,
and this portion will be lost. But from the best anthracite, which is nearly pure carbon concentrated,
if oxygen be entirely excluded, not much can distil away with any degree of heat. The combustion
of this fuel, therefore, admits of very easy and economical regulation, by simply regulating
the supply of air. When the air is admitted at all, it should be admitted above as well as
below the fuel, so that the carbonic oxyde that is generated in the mass may be burned, or
converted into carbonic acid, over the top. Why, then, should not the iron horse, before leaving
his stable, take a meal of anthracite sufficient to last him fifty or one hundred miles? Let
him swallow a ton at once, if he need it. Before starting, let the temperature of the mass
in the furnace be got up to the point where the combustion will go on with sufficient rapidity
for the required speed by simply supplying air, which should also be fed as hot as possible.
This done, the engineer throughout the trip will have perfect control of his force by means
of the steam-blast and air-openings. There will be no smoke nuisance, the combustion being
complete so far as it takes place at all. There will be no need of loading the furnace with
firebrick to equalize the heat,--the mass of incandescent fuel serving that purpose; and no
waste or inequality will occur from opening the door to throw in a cold collation.

What are we going to make? First, we are going to finish up, and carry out into all desirable
species, our great idea of an iron slave, the illustrious Man Friday of our modern civilization.
Whether we put water, air, or ether into his aorta, as the medium of converting heat into force,
we shall at last have a safe subject, available for all sorts of drudgery, that will do the
work of a man without eating more than half as much weight of coal as a man eats of bread and
meat. Next, carrying into all departments of human industry, in its perfect development, this
new creature, which has already, as a mere infant, made so stupendous a change in some of them,
we shall make the human millions all masters, from being nearly all slaves. We shall make both
idleness and poverty nearly impossible. Human labor, as a general thing, is a positive pleasure
only when the hand and brain work in concert. Hence, the more you increase well-devised and
efficient machinery, which requires and rewards intelligent oversight and skilful direction,
the more you increase the love of labor. We have already manufacturing communities so well
supplied with tasks for brains and hands, that everybody works, or would do so but for Circe
and her seductive hollow-ware. We are beginning to push machinery into agriculture, where it
will have still greater scope. With the means we now have, in the enormously increased production
of iron, our almost omnipresent and omnipotent machine-shops, our railroads leading everywhere,
another century, or perhaps half of it, will see every arable rood of the earth and every rood
that can be made arable, ploughed, sowed, and the crops harvested by iron horses, iron oxen,
or iron men, under the free and intelligent supervision of people who know how to feed, drive,
doctor, and make the most of them.

One island, which would hardly be missed from the map of the world, so small that its rivers
all fall into the sea mere brooks, with not more than one-thirteenth as much coal as we have
in the United States, and perhaps not one-hundredth as much iron ore, by the use of steam-driven
machinery produces as much iron and perhaps weaves as much cloth yearly as all the rest of
the world. If it does not the latter, it would do it, if it could find enough of the raw material
and paying customers. But agriculture, which supplies the raw material, though it is the first
and most universal form of human labor, lags behind the world's present manufacturing power.
One cause of the late, and perhaps of the previous commercial revulsion, was this disproportion.
The more rapid enlargement of manufacturing industry, multiplied in power by its machinery,
caused the raw material to rise in price and the manufactured article to fall, till the operations
could not be supported from the profits at the same time that contracts were fulfilled with
capitalists. Manufactures must pause till agriculture overtakes. Steam-machinery applied to
agriculture is the only thing that can correct this disproportion, and this is what we are
going to make. The world is not to be much longer dependent for its cotton on the compulsory
labor of the Dark Ages, nor for its flax and corn on blistered free hands or overworked cattle.
The laborer, in either section of our country, will be transformed into an ingenious gentleman
or lady, comfortably mounted on a migratory steam-cultivator to direct its gigantic energies,--or,
at least, occasionally so occupied. Under this system, it must be plain enough, to all persons
prophetically inclined, that the Northern valleys will greatly multiply their products, while
the Southern cotton-fields will whiten with heavier crops than human chattelism ever produced,
and the mountains of both latitudes, now hardly notched with civilization, will roll down the
wool of sheep in clouds.

Finally, with important and fruitful mechanical ideas which the world did not have twenty years
ago, with machinery which no one could have believed possible one hundred years ago, and which
has, since that time, quintupled the power of every free laborer in Christendom, we are going
to make man what his Creator designed him to be,--always and everywhere a sub-creator. By the
press we are making the knowledge of the past the knowledge of the present, the knowledge of
one the knowledge of all. By the telegraph the senses of sight and hearing are to be extended
around the globe. If we do not make ships to navigate the air, for ourselves, our wives, and
our little ones, it will not be because we cannot, but because, being lords of land and sea,
with power to traverse either with all desirable speed, we are too wise to waste force either
in beating the air for buoyancy, battling with gravity like birds, on the one hand, or in paddling
huge balloons against the wind, on the other. The steam-driven wheel leaves us no occasion
to envy even that ubiquitous denizen of the universe, the flying-fish. We have in it the most
economical means of self-transportation, as well as of mechanical production. It only remains
to make the most of it. This, to be sure, will not be achieved without infinite labor and innumerable
failures. The mechanical genius of the race is like the polypus anxiously stretching its tentacles
in every direction, and though frustrated thousands of times, it grasps something at last.

One of the most significant structures in the world, by the way, is the United States Patent
Office at Washington. No other building in that novel city means a hundredth part as much,
or shows so clearly what the world's most cunning thoughts and hands are chiefly engaged with.
Not that the Patent Office contains so many miracles of mechanical success; rather the contrary.
Take a just appraisal of its treasures, and you will regard it rather as the chief tomb in
the Pere la Chaise of human hopes. What multitudes of long-nursed and dearly-cherished inventions
there repose in a common grave, useful only as warnings to future inventors! One great moral
of the survey is, that inventive talent is shamefully wasted among us, for want of proper scientific
direction and suitable encouragement. The mind that comprehends general principles in all their
relations, and sees what needs to be done and what is possible and profitable to be done, is
of necessity not the one to arrange in detail the means of doing. The man of science and the
mechanical inventor are distinct persons, speaking of either in his best estate; and the maximum
success of machinery depends on their acting together with a better understanding than they
have hitherto had. It were less difficult than invidious to point to living examples of the
want of cooperation and co-appreciation between our knowing and our doing men; but, for the
sake of illustrating our idea, we will run the risk of quoting a minute from the proceedings
of one of our scientific societies, premising that we know nothing more of the parties than
we learn from the minute itself,--to wit, that one is, or was, an ingenious mechanic, and the
other a promoter of science.

"Dr. Patterson gave an account of an automaton speaking-machine which Mr. Franklin Peale and
himself had recently inspected. The machine was made to resemble as nearly as possible, in
every respect, the human vocal organs; and was susceptible of varied movements by means of
keys. Dr. Patterson was much struck by the distinctness with which the figure could enunciate
various letters and words. The difficult combination three was well pronounced,--the th less
perfectly, but astonishingly well. It also enumerated diphthongs, and numerous difficult combinations
of sounds. Sixteen keys were sufficient to produce all the sounds. In enunciating the simple
sounds, the movements of the mouth could be seen. The parts were made of gum elastic. The figure
was made to say, with a peculiar intonation, but surprising distinctness, 'Mr. Patterson, I
am glad to see you.' It sang, 'God save Victoria,' and 'Hail Columbia,'--the words and air
combined. Dr. Patterson had determined to visit the maker of the machine, Mr. Faber, in private,
in order to obtain further interesting information; but, on the following day, Dr. P. was distressed
to learn, that, in a fit of excitement, he had destroyed every particle of a figure which had
taken him seventeen years to construct."

It is quite probable that the world lost very little by the destruction of this curious figure,
whatever the nature or cause of the "excitement" that led to it. All we have to say is, that
it does lose much, when the genius that can create such things is not set upon the right tasks,
and encouraged to success by the "high consideration" of scientific men, who alone of all the
world can appreciate the difficulties it has to contend with. It is by setting the right mechanical
problems before the men who can make dumb matter talk, that we are to bring about the resurrection
of the black Titan who has lain buried under the mountains for thousands of millenniums, and
constitute him the efficient sub-gardener of the world's Paradise Regained.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHIPWRECK

  We who by shipwreck only find the shores
  Of divine wisdom can but kneel at first,
  Can but exult to feel beneath our feet,
  That long stretched vainly down the yielding deeps,
  The shock and sustenance of solid earth:
  Inland afar we see what temples gleam
  Through immemorial stems of sacred groves,
  And we conjecture shining shapes therein;
  Yet for a space 'tis good to wonder here
  Among the shells and seaweed of the beach.

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL.

Myself. No. Who's g-on-to run, 'n'wher's't g-on-to be?

The Port-chuck.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRESIDENT'S PROPHECY OF PEACE.

There was joy in the national palace on the eve of May-day. The heart of the Chief of Thirty
Millions was full of gladness. It was a high holiday at the capital of the nation. Jubilant
processions crowded the streets. The boom of cannon told to the heavens that some great event,
full of glory and of blessing, was just happily born into the history of the world. Strains
of triumphant music at once expressed and stirred afresh the rapture which the new fruition
of a deferred and doubting hope had kindled in myriad breasts. Rejoicing multitudes swarmed
before the palace gate, and with congratulatory shouts compelled the presence of the Nation's
Head. He stood before them proud and happy, and answered to the transports of their joy with
a responsive sympathy. He rejoiced in the prospect of the peace and prosperity with which the
occasion of this jubilee was to cheer and bless the land in all its borders. His chosen friends
and counsellors surrounded him and echoed his prophecies of good. A kindred homage was next
paid to the virtuous artificers of the new-wrought blessing, without whose shaping hands it
would have perished before the sight, or taken some dreadful form of mischief and of horror.
Their words of cheer and exultation, too, swelled the surging tide of patriotic emotion till
it overflowed again. Thus with the thunder of artillery, with the animating sound of drum and
trumpet, with the more persuasive music of impassioned words, with shoutings and with revelry,
these jocund compeers, from the highest to the lowest, mingled into one by the alchemy of a
common joy, chased the hours of that memorable night and gave strange welcome to the morn of May.

What great happiness had just befallen, which should thus transport with joy the chief magistrate
of a mighty nation, and send an answering pulse of rapture through all the veins of his capital?
The armies of the Republic had surely just returned in triumph from some dubious battle joined
with a barbarian invader who threatened to trample all her cherished rights, and the institutions
which are their safeguard, under his iron heel. Perhaps the Angel of Mercy had at length set
again the seals upon some wide-wasting pestilence which had long been walking in darkness,
with Terror going before her and Death following after. Or was it the desolating course of
Famine that had been stayed, as it swept, gaunt and hungry, over the land, and consumed its
inhabitants from off its face? Peradventure, the prayers of holy men had prevailed, and the
heavens which had been as brass were melted, and the earth which had been but ashes revived
again, a living altar, crowned afresh with flowers, and prophetic of the thank-offerings of
harvests. Or it might be that a great discoverer had added a new world to the domain of human
happiness, by some invention which should lighten the toils and multiply the innocent satisfactions
of mankind. Or had virtue and intelligence won some signal victory over barbarism and ignorance,
and blessed with liberty and knowledge regions long abandoned to despotism and to darkness?
These had been, indeed, occasions on which the chief ruler of a great people might fitly lead
the anthem of a nation's thanksgiving.

But the joy which thus overflowed the hearts of President and people at the metropolis of our
politics, and which has sprinkled with its cordial drops kindred spirits scattered far and
wide over the land, welled up from no wholesome sources such as these. It was no deliverance
from barbarous enemies, from pestilential disease, from meagre famine, that moved those raptures,--no
joy at ignorance dissipated, barbarism dispelled, or tyranny put down. The "peace" and the
"prosperity," the prophecy of which was so sweet to the souls that took sweet counsel together
on that night, were of a kind which only souls tuned to such unison and so subtly trained could
fully comprehend and rightly estimate. This gentle peace, thus joyfully presaged, is to be
won by the submission of an inchoate State to a form of government subjecting its inhabitants
to institutions abhorrent to their souls and fatal to their prosperity, forced upon them at
the point of the bowie-knife and the muzzle of the revolver by hordes of sordid barbarians
from a hostile soil, their natural and necessary enemies. And the sweet harbinger of this blessed
peace, the halcyon which broods over the stormy waves and tells of the calm at hand, is a bribe
so cunningly devised that its contrivers firmly believe it will buy up the souls of these much-injured
men, and reconcile them to the shame and infamy of trading away their lights and their honor
as the boot of a dirty bargain in the land-market. And the "prosperity" which is to wait upon
this happy "peace" glows with a like golden promise. It is a prosperity that shall bless Kansas
into a Virginia or a North Carolina by virtue of the same means which has crowned the Slave-country
with the wealth, the civilization, and the intelligence it has to brag of. It is such a prosperity
as ever follows after the footsteps of Slavery,--a prosperity which is to blight the soil,
degrade the minds, debauch the morals, impoverish the substance, and subvert the independence
of a loathing population, if the joy of the President and his directors is to be made full.
Such is the message of peace and good-will which thrilled with prophetic raptures the hearts
which flowed together on that happy night, and such the blessed prospects which made the air
of Washington vocal with the ecstasies of triumph.

The history of the world is full enough of illustrations of "the Art of making a Great Kingdom
a Small One." The art of degrading the imperial idea of a true republic from its just preeminence
among the polities of mankind, of quenching the principles of eternal right which are the star-points
of its divine crown, of trailing the shining whiteness of its robes in the dust, and making
it an object of contempt rather than of adoration, has never been taught more emphatically
than in the examples furnished by our own later annals. If Mr. Buchanan and his predecessor
had set themselves to work, of good set purpose, to bring republican institutions into derision,
and to prove that the American experiment was a dead failure, they could not have proceeded
more cunningly with their task. Their aim has been, as it has seemed, to give the lie to all
the principles on which it has been assumed that these institutions rest, and to show that
their real object is to subject the many to the government of the few, as the manner is of
the nations round about. The thin veil of decent falsehood, under which the caution of earlier
time had decorously hid this fact, has been torn aside by the rude intrepidity of assurance
which long-continued success had fostered. The problem to be solved being to prove the chief
axiom of our political science, that the people have a right to self-government and to the
choice of their own institutions, to be a lie, it is worked out in the presence of an admiring
world, after this fashion.

The old Ordinance--which set limits to Slavery, and which, as it preceded the Constitution,
should in honor and equity be taken as a condition precedent to it, and the later pledge of
the South, that this contract should be sacredly kept on the other side of a certain parallel
of latitude, having both been infamously violated for the sake of extending the domain of Slavery
into regions solemnly dedicated to Liberty, the entire energies of the General Government and
of the political party it represented were put forth to crystallize this double lie into the
institutions of Kansas, and thus take it out of the category of theory and reduce it into that
of fact. The reluctance of the inhabitants of the young Territory went for nothing, and provision
was soon effectually made to overcome their resistance. Every form of terrorism, to which tyrants
all alike instinctively resort to disarm resistance to their will, was launched at the property,
the lives, and the happiness of the defenceless settlers. Hordes of barbarians, as we have
said before, from every part of the Southern hive, but especially from the savage tribes of
the bordering Missouri, poured themselves over the devoted land. Murder, arson, robbery, every
outrage that could be offered to man or woman, waited on their footsteps and stalked abroad
with them in their forays against Freedom. When the first steps were to be taken towards the
organization of a government, they precipitated themselves upon the Territory in fiercer numbers.
They made themselves masters of the polling-places; they drove away by violence and threats
the peaceable inhabitants and lawful voters, and by open force and unblushing fraud elected
themselves or their creatures the lawgivers of the commonwealth about to be created. So outrageous
were the crimes of these miscreants at this and subsequent periods, that even the very creatures
of Pierce and Buchanan, chosen especially for their supposed fitness to assist in these villanies,
turned away, one after another, sickened at the sight of them, and forfeited forever the favor
of their masters by shrinking from an unqualified and unhesitating obedience.

The Constitution, contrived by the wretches thus nefariously clothed in the stolen sovereignty
of the true inhabitants of Kansas, of course made Slavery an integral part of the institutions
of the State. A code of laws was enacted absolutely without parallel in the history of the
world for insolent trampling down of rights and for bloody cruelty of penalties,--laws so abominable
as even to call down upon them, from his place in the Senate, the emphatic condemnation of
so veteran a soldier in the service of Slavery as General Cass, now Mr. Buchanan's Secretary
of State. These Territorial laws, thus infamously vile, thus made in defiance of the well-known
will of the great majority of the people of Kansas, Mr. Pierce hastened to recognize as the
authentic expression of the mind of the people there, and exerted all the moral and all the
physical force of the government to maintain them in their authority. Since that magistrate
was kicked aside as no longer available for the uses of Slavery, because of the very infamy
he had won in its service, Mr. Buchanan, unlessoned by his fate, has adopted his views and
carried out his policy.

We do not propose to follow this march of shameful events step by step, nor to speak of them
in their exact chronological order, nor yet to specify to which of these magistrates the credit
of any one of them belongs, inasmuch as the philosophy and method of the policy of the one
and the other are absolutely identical. We have space only to glance at unquestionable facts,
and to trace them to their necessary motives. To maintain the supremacy of this usurpation,
and the Draconic laws made under it, Mr. Pierce poured in the squadrons of the Republic, to
dragoon the rebellious freemen into obedience to what their souls abhorred, and what their
reason told them was of no more just binding force upon them than an edict of the Emperor of
China. When the actual inhabitants of the Territory had met in Convention and framed a Constitution
excluding Slavery, and had adopted it, and the legislature authorized by it met, its members
were dispersed by national soldiers, detailed to compel submission to the behests of the Slavemastery
of the Government and of the nation. These troops have been kept on foot ever since, to intimidate
the people, to assist as special police in the arrest and detention of political prisoners
charged with crimes against the Usurpation, and to sustain the Federal governors and judges
in carrying out their instructions for the Subjugation of the majority by legal chicane or
by military violence.

Such was the genesis of the Lecompton Constitution, and such the nursing it had received at
the hands of the paternal government at Washington. In due course of time it was presented
to Congress as the charter under which the people of Kansas asked to receive the concession
of their right of State government; and the scene of war was forthwith transferred from those
distant fields to the chambers of national legislation, under the immediate eye of the chief
of the state. This high officer soon dispelled any delusive doubts which, for the purpose of
securing his election, he had permitted to be ventilated during the late Presidential campaign,
that he would at least see fair play in the struggle between Slavery and Freedom in Kansas.
With indecent zeal and unscrupulous partisanship, he concentrated all the energies of his administration,
and employed the whole force of the influence and the patronage of the nation, to obtain the
indorsement by Congress of the Lecompton Constitution, and thus to compel the people of Kansas
to pass under the yoke of their Slaveholding invaders. The true origin and character of that
vile fabrication had been made plain to every eye that was willing to see, and the abhorrence
in which it was held by nearly the entire population of the Territory put beyond question by
more than one trial vote. Yet it was embraced as the test measure of the Administration to
prove the unbroken fealty of the President to the Power which is mightier than he. Victory
was reckoned upon in advance, as certain and easy. A servile, or rather a commanding majority
in the Senate,--nearly half of that body being of the class that rules the rulers,--was ready
to do whatever dirty and detestable work was demanded of them. A majority of more than thirty
in the House, elected as supporters of the Administration, seemed to make success there also
an inevitable necessity. But by reason of the vastly larger proportion of members from the
Free States in that body, and their greater nearness to their constituents, these reasonable
expectations were disappointed. Men who had taken service in the Democratic ranks, and had
been faithful unto that day, refused to obey the word of command when it took this tone and
was informed with this purpose. And for a season the plague was stayed, and sanguine hearts
trusted that it was stayed forever.

We are willing to believe that the bulk of the Democrats in both Houses of Congress, who had
the virtue to defy the threats and cajolements of their party-leaders, when this great public
crime was demanded at their hands, were sincere in the resistance they opposed to this subversion
of all the principles in which they had been bred, and of which their party had always professed
to be the special defence and guard. But the mantle of our charity is not wide enough to cover
up the base treachery of those men who, acknowledging and demonstrating the right, devised
or consented to the villany which was to crush or to cripple it. That the final shape which
the Lecompton juggle took was an invention of the enemy, cunningly contrived to win by indirection
what was too dangerous to be attempted by open violence, is a conclusion from which no candid
mind can escape, after a full consideration of the case. The defection of so large a body of
Northern Democrats from the side of the Slaveholding Directory was doubtless a significant
and startling fact, suggestive of dangerous insubordination on the part of allies who had ever
been found sure and steadfast in every jeopardy of Slavery. And it made a resort to guile necessary
to carry the point which it was not prudent to press to the extremity of force. The Slaveholders
are not fastidious as to the means by which they reach their end. Though they might have preferred
to hew their way to their design with a high hand, and to put down all opposition by bought
or bullied majorities, backed by the strong arm of the nation, yet they never refuse to compromise
and palter when the path to success lies through stratagems or frauds. The skill in this instance,
as in all others, by which they propose to win everything under the show of yielding somewhat,
is worthy of Machiavel or of Lucifer, and is far above the capacity of the paltry Northern
tool who is permitted to enjoy the infamy of the invention which he was employed to utter.
The Slaveholders, like other despots, do their dirty work by proxy, and scorn the wretched
instruments they use, and then fling from them in disgust.

The Lecompton cheat having been defeated in the House after it had received the indorsement
of the Senate, the two coordinates were at issue, and it seemed for a brief time to have met
with the fate it merited. But cunning and treachery combined to put it into the hands of a
Committee of Conference to be manipulated afresh, and, if possible, moulded into a shape that
might give Democratic recusants an excuse for treason to the North and submission to the Power
that demanded it. And the invention was worthy of the diabolical sagacity and ingenuity which
have always marked the politics of Slavery. The maxim, that every man has his price, was assumed
to apply as well to men when collected into bodies corporate as to individuals; and the hook,
with which the souls of the men of Kansas are to be fished for, was baited with a bribe the
most tempting to their hungry needs. And to make their capture the more sure, an answering
menace threatens them on the other hand, to force them to swallow the barbed treachery. They
are offered no opportunity of expressing their assent or dissent as to the Constitution held
over their heads. Their enemies know too well what its fate would be, if offered, pure and
simple, to their acceptance or refusal. They are only to say whether or not they will accept
five million acres of land that Congress munificently offers them for the construction of their
railways. If they say, "Yes, thank you," to this simple question, the Chief Conjurer of the
nation, the great Medicine Man of our tribe, the Head Magician of our Egypt, will only have
to say, "Presto pass," and they will find themselves a Slave State in the glorious Union, under
a solemn contract, struck by this same act, to endure Slavery for six years to come. If they
say, "No, we won't," the door of the Union is shut in their faces, and they are told to wait
without in all the bleakness of Territorial dependency, subject to the laws now afflicting
them, with a satrap sent down from Washington to rule over them, and with Lecomptes and Catos
to decree justice for them, until swindling tools of the Administration shall be instructed
to allow the presence of a sufficient population to entitle a State to a Representative.

If they consent to be erected into a Slave State by accepting the bribe, they will come into
the Union by a puff of Presidential breath, though having only forty thousand inhabitants,
with two Senators and a Representative, and all the advantages incident to Federal connection
and patronage. Should they reject it, they will be left, it may be, to years of Territorial
annoyance, and the annoyance of a Slave Territory, too, till Government officials shall discover
their numbers to amount to near a hundred thousand, and possibly to much more, after the next
census has newly apportioned the House. With Slavery, they have proffered to them broad lands
to help cover their wide expanse with an iron reticulation of railways, developing their resources
and multiplying their material prosperity, at the slight cost of their consistency and their
honor. Without it, they may have to stand shivering at the gate of the Union, blasted by the
"cold shade" of our American aristocracy, and far removed from the genial sunshine of national
favor and bounty. Truly did Senator Wilson say that Congress approached Kansas at once with
a bribe and a threat. Never was the devilish cunning of Slaveholding politics more strikingly
illustrated than by the insidious vileness of this proposition. It had been bad enough, surely,
had we been called upon to rejoice, as over a great triumph of the right, at the concession
to Kansas of the sovereignty of settling her own institutions in her own way, had such been
granted. Nothing could be more simple and natural, in a case of conflicting assertions and
opposite beliefs as to the state of opinion there, than to remit the decision of the doubt
to a fresh vote. Had any other interest than that in human beings been involved, such a disposition
of the whole matter would have excited neither remark nor opposition. Nothing, perhaps, could
exemplify the control Slavery has obtained over the affairs of the country more strongly than
the power it has had to hinder this simple remedy of an alleged wrong or error,--and this,
by procuring the defection of sordid Northern Representatives from what they confessed to be
the right, to this corrupt evasion,--an evasion designed to fit the people of Kansas for servitude
by tempting them to sacrifice their self-respect and their honor. Let these miscreants make
haste to seize the price of their perfidy before popular contempt and loathing shall sweep
them forever out of sight into the abyss of infamy and forgetfulness which is appointed for
the traitors to Liberty. If the question of the real will of the people of Kansas had been
referred back to them for settlement, it would have been humiliating enough to have had to
exult over it as a victory of Freedom. With what depth of shame, then, should we contemplate
the compassing of their end by the Slavocrats, through the venal surrender of the rights so
long and so manfully asserted, for so paltry a temptation!

But we do not apprehend a consummation so devoutly to be deprecated. We believe that the people
of Kansas will spurn the bribe and refuse to eat the dirt that is set before them for a banquet.
They will reject the insulting proffer with contempt, and fall back upon their reserved right
of resistance, passive or active, as their circumstances may advise. They will not be so base
as to desert the post of honor they have sought in the great fight for freedom and maintained
so long and so well, disappointing and throwing into confusion the distant allies who have
stood behind them in their most evil hours, for all the lands that President and Congress have
to give. It is, indeed, a momentous crisis for them, and we have faith to believe that they
will not be wanting to its demands. The eyes of the lovers of liberty everywhere are earnestly
watching to see how they will come out from the ordeal by fire and by gold to which they are
subjected. What Boston was in 1775, and Paris in 1789, is Kansas now,--the field on which a
great battle for the right is to be fought. Honor or infamy attends the issue of her action
in the dilemma in which the crafty malice of her enemies has placed her. If she agree to take
the dirty acres which are proffered to her as the price of her integrity, she consents to take
the yoke of Slavery upon her neck and not even to attempt to shake herself free from it for
six years to come. We know that shuffling Democrats, and even temporizing Republicans, represent
that the people, after accepting the Lecompton Constitution, can forthwith summon a Convention
and substitute another scheme of government in its stead. But this could be initiated only
by a breach of the promise they would have just pledged, and could be carried through only
by a revolution. Such a course would be a direct violation of the philosophy of Constitutional
Government, which assumes as its fundamental axiom, that Constitutions can be altered only
in the way and according to the conditions prescribed in themselves. Such a proceeding would
be a coup d'etat, not as flagitious certainly as that of Bonaparte, but to the full as revolutionary
and illegal. And we may be sure that the arm of the United States Government would not be shortened
so that it should not interpose and hinder such a defiance of itself and the Power whose instrument
it is. With servile and corrupt judges at its beck and a majority in Congress within its purchase,
the occasion and means of such an interference would be readily devised and supplied.

We believe that this line of policy would lead to an armed collision with the General Government.
It is for the oppressed inhabitants of any country to say when their wrongs have reached the
height which justifies the drawing of the civil sword. We have neither the right nor the disposition
to advise the people of Kansas in a matter so emphatically their own. But there is another
way of coming to this arbitrament,--inevitable, if they deviate a hair's-breadth from the strict
line of law,--should they deem there is no other remedy for their wrongs. The admirable Constitution
just framed at Leavenworth, one well worthy of a free people that has been tried as with fire,
will be adopted before these lines are before the public eye. Let them reject the Buchanan-English
swindle, put their heel on the Lecompton fraud, set up the Leavenworth Constitution, and erect
a State government under it in defiance of the Territorial Usurpation, and they will soon find
themselves face to face with the tyranny at Washington. But is there not reason to hope that
firmness and patience may yet win the battle for freedom without resorting to so serious an
alternative? Is it indeed inevitable that Kansas must remain out of the pale of the Union,
under the oppression of the Territorial laws, until the hirelings of the Government shall have
determined that slaves enough have been poured in to decide the complexion of the new State,
and shall authorize her to ask for admission? We are told that the joy at Washington and elsewhere
over this "settlement" of the Kansas difficulty was because it was taken out of Congress, and
"Agitation" at an end. But what is to hinder its being brought into Congress again?--and whose
fault will it be, if Agitation do not survive and grow mightier unto the victory? If the present
Congress can shut its doors against this intruder, its power dies with itself, and it greatly
lies with the people of Kansas to make the next Congress one that shall rehabilitate them in
their rights. Their conduct at this pregnant moment may settle the proximate destiny of the
Republic, and decide whether the Slave Power is to rule us by its underlings for four years
more, or whether its pride is to have a fall and its insolence a rebuke in 1860.

We all remember how often the Agitation of the Slavery question has been done to death in Congress,
and how sure it was to appear again to startle its murderers from their propriety. Like "the
blood-boltered Banquo," it would confront again the eyes that had hoped to look upon it no
more. It would come back:

  "With twenty mortal murders on its head
  To push them from their stools!"

And this dreaded spectre, though a beneficent angel with healing on his wings in truth, will
push yet many traitorous or cowardly sycophants from the stools they disgrace, and substitute
in their stead men who will quiet Agitation by Justice. Let the men of Kansas remember that
a yet greater trust than that of providing for their own interests and rights is in their hands.
The battle they are to fight in this quarrel is for the whole North, for the whole country,
for the world. Let them address themselves unto it with calmness, with prudence, with watchfulness,
with courage. They are beset on every side by crafty and desperate enemies. Greedy land-jobbers,
in haste to be rich, will try to persuade them that not to be innocent is to be wise. Timid
timeservers will urge a submission which promises peace, though it be but a solitude that is
called so. Rampant Pro-slavery will exalt its horn against Righteousness and try again the
virtue of ruffianism to prevail against civilization. The barbarians will hang anew upon the
borders, ready to complete the conquest they began so well. And above all, a majority of the
men who are to pass upon the votes are the creatures of the Administration, who know, by the
example of their predecessors, that the suspicion of honesty will be fatal to all their hopes
of preferment, and that they can purchase reward only by procuring, quocunque modo, the acceptance
of the proposition of Congress. But still the power is in the hands of the Free-State men,
if they choose to put it forth. Let them organize such a scrutiny everywhere, that fraud and
violence cannot escape detection and exposure. Let them observe most rigidly all the technical
rules imposed upon the electors, that no vote may be lost. Let them come to the polls by thousands,
and trample under their feet the shabby bribe for which they are asked to trade away their
independence and their virtue. Let them be thus faithful, and never be weary of maintaining
the Agitation, which is proved, by the very dread their enemies have of it, to be the way to
their victory. Thus they will be sure to triumph, conquering their right to create their own
government, and erect a free commonwealth on the ruins of the tyranny they have overthrown.
And Kansas, at no distant period, will be welcomed by her Free Sisters to her place among them,
with no stain of bribes in her hands, and with no soil of meanness upon her garments. And then
the "peace" and "prosperity," which President Buchanan saw in vision on the eve of May-day,
will indeed prevail and be established, while the blackness of infamy will brood forever over
the memory of the magistrate who used the highest office of the Republic to perpetuate the
wrongs of the Slave by the sacrifice of the rights of the Citizen.

LITERARY NOTICES.

 Library of Old Authors.--Works of John Webster. London: John
   Russell Smith. 1856-57.

We turn now to Mr. Hazlitt's edition of Webster. We wish he had chosen Chapman; for Mr. Dyce's
Webster is hardly out of print, and, we believe, has just gone through a second and revised
edition. Webster was a far more considerable man than Marston, and infinitely above him in
genius. Without the poetic nature of Marlowe, or Chapman's somewhat unwieldy vigor of thought,
he had that inflammability of mind which, untempered by a solid understanding, made his plays
a strange mixture of vivid expression, incoherent declamation, dramatic intensity, and extravagant
conception of character. He was not, in the highest sense of the word, a great dramatist. Shakspeare
is the only one of that age. Marlowe had a rare imagination, a delicacy of sense that made
him the teacher of Shakspeare and Milton in versification, and was, perhaps, as purely a poet
as any that England has produced; but his mind had no balance-wheel. Chapman abounds in splendid
enthusiasms of diction, and now and then dilates our imaginations with suggestions of profound
poetic depth. Ben Jonson was a conscientious and intelligent workman, whose plays glow, here
and there, with the golden pollen of that poetic feeling with which his age impregnated all
thought and expression; but his leading characteristic, like that of his great namesake, Samuel,
was a hearty common sense, which fitted him rather to be a great critic than a great poet.
He had a keen and ready sense of the comic in situation, but no humor. Fletcher was as much
a poet as fancy and sentiment can make any man. Only Shakspeare wrote comedy and tragedy with
truly ideal elevation and breadth. Only Shakspeare had that true sense of humor which, like
the universal solvent sought by the alchemists, so fuses together all the elements of a character,
(as in Falstaff,) that any question of good or evil, of dignified or ridiculous, is silenced
by the apprehension of its thorough humanity. Rabelais shows gleams of it in Panurge; but,
in our opinion, no man ever possessed it in an equal degree with Shakspeare, except Cervantes;
no man has since shown anything like an approach to it, (for Moliere's quality was comic power
rather than humor,) except Sterne, Fielding, and Richter. Only Shakspeare was endowed with
that healthy equilibrium of nature whose point of rest was midway between the imagination and
the understanding,-- that perfectly unruffled brain which reflected all objects with almost
inhuman impartiality,--that outlook whose range was ecliptical, dominating all zones of human
thought and action,--that power of verisimilar conception which could take away Richard III
from History, and Ulysses from Homer,--and that creative faculty whose equal touch is alike
vivifying in Shallow and in Lear. He alone never seeks in abnormal and monstrous characters
to evade the risks and responsibilities of absolute truthfulness, nor to stimulate a jaded
imagination by Caligulan horrors of plot. He is never, like many of his fellow-dramatists,
confronted with unnatural Frankensteins of his own making, whom he must get off his hands as
best he may. Given a human foible, he can incarnate it in the nothingness of Slender, or make
it loom gigantic through the tragic twilight of Hamlet. We are tired of the vagueness which
classes all the Elizabethan playwrights together as "great dramatists,"--as if Shakspeare did
not differ from them in kind as well as in degree. Fine poets some of them were; but though
imagination and the power of poetic expression are, singly, not uncommon gifts, and even in
combination not without secular examples, yet it is the rarest of earthly phenomena, to find
them joined with those faculties of perception, arrangement, and plastic instinct in the loving
union which alone makes a great dramatic poet possible. We suspect that Shakspeare will long
continue the only specimen of the genus. His contemporaries, in their comedies, either force
what they call "a humor" till it becomes fantastical, or hunt for jokes, like rat-catchers,
in the sewers of human nature and of language. In their tragedies they become heavy without
grandeur, like Jonson, or mistake the stilts for the cothurnus, as Chapman and Webster too
often do. Every new edition of an Elizabethan dramatist is but the putting of another witness
into the box to prove the inaccessibility of Shakspeare's stand-point as poet and artist.

Webster's most famous works are "The Duchess of Malfy" and "Vittoria Corombona," but we are
strongly inclined to call "The Devil's Law-Case" his best play. The two former are in a great
measure answerable for the "spasmodic" school of poets, since the extravagances of a man of
genius are as sure of imitation as the equable self-possession of his higher moments is incapable
of it. Webster had, no doubt, the primal requisite of a poet, imagination, but in him it was
truly untamed, and Aristotle's admirable distinction between the Horrible and the Terrible
in tragedy was never better illustrated and confirmed than in the "Duchess" and "Vittoria."
His nature had something of the sleuth-hound quality in it, and a plot, to keep his mind eager
on the trail, must be sprinkled with fresh blood at every turn. We do not forget all the fine
things that Lamb has said of Webster, but, when Lamb wrote, the Elizabethan drama was an El
Dorado, whose micacious sand, even, was treasured as auriferous,--and no wonder, in a generation
which admired the "Botanic Garden." Webster is the Gherardo della Notte of his day, and himself
calls his "Vittoria Corombona" a "night-piece." Though he had no conception of Nature in its
large sense, as something pervading a whole character and making it consistent with itself,
nor of Art, as that which dominates an entire tragedy and makes all the characters foils to
each other and tributaries to the catastrophe, yet there are flashes of Nature in his plays,
struck out by the collisions of passion, and dramatic intensities of phrase for which it would
be hard to find the match. The "prithee, undo this button" of Lear, by which Shakspeare makes
us feel the swelling of the old king's heart, and that the bodily results of mental anguish
have gone so far as to deaden for the moment all intellectual consciousness and forbid all
expression of grief, is hardly finer than the broken verse which Webster puts into the mouth
of Ferdinand when he sees the body of his sister, murdered by his own procurement,--

  "Cover her face: mine eyes dazzle: she died young."

He has not the condensing power of Shakspeare, who squeezed meaning into a phrase with an hydraulic
press, but he could carve a cherry-stone with any of the concellisti, and abounds in imaginative
quaintnesses that are worthy of Donne, and epigrammatic tersenesses that remind us of Fuller.
Nor is he wanting in poetic phrases of the purest crystallization. Here are a few examples:--

  "Oh, if there be another world i' th' moon,
  As some fantastics dream, I could wish all men,
  The whole race of them, for their inconstancy,
  Sent thither to people that!"

(Old Chaucer was yet slier. After saying that Lamech was the first faithless lover, he adds,--

  "And he invented tents, unless men lie,"--

implying that he was the prototype of nomadic men.)

  "Virtue is ever sowing of her seeds:
  In the trenches, for the soldier; in the wakeful study,
  For the scholar; in the furrows of the sea,
  For men of our profession [merchants]; all of which
  Arise and spring up honor."

("Of all which," Mr. Hazlitt prints it.)

  "Poor Jolenta! should she hear of this,
  She would not after the report keep fresh
  So long as flowers on graves."

  "For sin and shame are ever tied together
  With Gordian knots of such a strong thread spun,
  They cannot without violence be undone."
            "One whose mind
  Appears more like a ceremonious chapel
  Full of sweet music, than a thronging presence."
         "Gentry? 'tis nought else
  But a superstitious relic of time past;
  And, sifted to the true worth, it is nothing
  But ancient riches."
          "What is death?
  The safest trench i' th' world to keep man free
  From Fortune's gunshot."

       "It has ever been my opinion
  That there are none love perfectly indeed,
  But those that hang or drown themselves for love,"

  says Julio, anticipating Butler's

  "But he that drowns, or blows out's brains,
  The Devil's in him, if he feigns."

He also anticipated La Rochefoucauld and Byron in their apophthegm concerning woman's last
love. In "The Devil's Law-Case," Leonora says:

  "For, as we love our youngest children best,
  So the last fruit of our affection,
  Wherever we bestow it, is most strong,
  Most violent, most unresistible;
  Since 'tis, indeed, our latest harvest-home,
  Last merriment 'fore winter."

In editing Webster, Mr. Hazlitt had the advantage (except in a single doubtful play) of a predecessor
in the Rev. Alexander Dyce, beyond all question the best living scholar of the literature of
the times of Elizabeth and James I. If he give no proof of remarkable fitness for his task,
he seems, at least, to have been diligent and painstaking. His notes are short and to the point,
and--which we consider a great merit--at the foot of the page. If he had added a glossarial
index, we should have been still better pleased. Mr. Hazlitt seems to have read over the text
with some care, and he has had the good sense to modernize the orthography, or, as he says,
has "observed the existing standard of spelling throughout." Yet--for what reason we cannot
imagine--he prints "I" for "ay," taking the pains to explain it every time in a note, and retains
"banquerout" and "coram" apparently for the sake of telling us that they mean "bankrupt" and
"quorum." He does not seem to have a quick ear for scansion, which would sometimes have assisted
him to the true reading. We give an example or two:

  "The obligation wherein we all stood bound
  Cannot be concealed [cancelled] without great
  reproach."

    "The realm, not they,
  Must be regarded. Be [we] strong and bold,
  We are the people's factors."

    "Shall not be o'erburdened [overburdened] in
    our reign."

    "A merry heart
  And a good stomach to [a] feast are all."

    "Have her meat serv'd up by bawds and
    ruffians."  [dele "up."]

  "Brother or father
  In [a] dishonest suit, shall be to me."

  "What's she in Rome your greatness cannot awe,
  Or your rich purse purchase
  Promises and threats." [dele the second "your."]

  "Through clouds of envy and disast [rous] change."

  "The Devil drives; 'tis [it is] full time to go."

He has overlooked some strange blunders. What is the meaning of

  "Laugh at your misery, as foredeeming you
  An idle meteor, which drawn forth, the earth
  Would soon be lost i' the air"?

We hardly need say that it should be

"An idle meteor, which, drawn forth the earth, would," &c.

"Forwardness" for "frowardness," (Vol. II. p. 87,) "tennis-balls struck and banded" for "bandied,"
(Ib. p. 275,) may be errors of the press; but:

     "Come, I'll love you wisely:
  That's jealousy,"

has crept in by editorial oversight for "wisely, that's jealously." So have:

  "Ay, the great emperor of [or] the mighty Cham";

and:

  "This wit [with] taking long journeys";

and:

  "Virginius, thou dost but supply my place,
  I thine: Fortune hath lift me [thee] to my chair,
  And thrown me headlong to thy pleading bar";

and:

  "I'll pour my soul into my daughter's belly, [body,]
  And with my soldier's tears embalm her wounds."

We suggest that the change of an a to an r would make sense of the following:--

  "Come, my little punk, with thy two compositors,
  to this unlawful painting-house,"

[printing-house,] which Mr. Hazlitt awkwardly endeavors to explain by this note on the word
compositors:--"i.e. (conjecturally), making up the composition of the picture"! Our readers
can decide for themselves;--the passage occurs Vol. I. p. 214.

We think Mr. Hazlitt's notes are, in the main, good; but we should like to know his authority
for saying that pench means "the hole in a bench by which it was taken up,"--that "descant"
means "look askant on,"--and that "I wis" is equivalent to "I surmise, imagine," which it surely
is not in the passage to which his note is appended. On page 9, Vol. I., we read in the text,

  "To whom, my lord, bends thus your awe,"

and in the note, "i.e. submission." The original has aue, which, if it mean ave, is unmeaning
here. Did Mr. Hazlitt never see a picture of the Annunciation with ave written on the scroll
proceeding from the bending angel's mouth? We find the same word in Vol. III. p. 217,--

  "Whose station's built on avees and applause."

Vol. III. pp. 47-48:--

  "And then rest, gentle bones; yet pray
  That when by the precise you are view'd,
  A supersedeas be not sued
  To remove you to a place more airy,
  That in your stead they may keep chary
  Stockfish or seacoal, for the abuses
  Of sacrilege have turned graves to viler uses."

To the last verse Mr. Hazlitt appends this note, "Than that of burning men's bones for fuel."
There is no allusion here to burning men's bones, but simply to the desecration of graveyards
by building warehouses upon them, in digging the foundations for which the bones would be thrown
out. The allusion is, perhaps, to the "Churchyard of the Holy Trinity";--see Stow's Survey,
ed. 1603, p. 126. Elsewhere in the same play, Webster alludes bitterly to "begging church-land."

Vol. I. p. 73, "And if he walk through the street, he ducks at the penthouses, like an ancient
that dares not flourish at the oathtaking of the praetor for fear of the signposts." Mr. Hazlitt's
note is, "Ancient was a standard or flag; also an ensign, of which Skinner says it is a corruption.
What the meaning of the simile is the present editor cannot suggest." We confess we find no
difficulty. The meaning plainly is, that he ducks for fear of hitting the penthouses, as an
ensign on the Lord Mayor's day dares not flourish his standard for fear of hitting the signposts.
We suggest the query, whether ancient, in this sense, be not a corruption of the Italian word
anziano.

Want of space compels us to leave many other passages, which we had marked for comment, unnoticed.
We are surprised that Mr. Hazlitt, (see his Introduction to "Vittoria Coromboma,") in undertaking
to give us some information concerning the Dukedom and Castle of Bracciano, should uniformly
spell it Brachiano. Shakspeare's Petruchio might have put him on his guard. We should be glad
also to know in what part of Italy he places Malfi.

Mr. Hazlitt's General Introduction supplies us with no new information, but this was hardly
to be expected where Mr. Dyce had already gone over the field. We wish that he had been able
to give us better means of distinguishing the three almost contemporary John Websters one from
the other, for we think the internal evidence is enough to show that all the plays attributed
to the author of the "Duchess" and "Vittoria" could not have been written by the same author.
On the whole, he has given us a very respectable, and certainly a very pretty, edition of an
eminent poet.

In leaving the subject, we cannot but express our satisfaction in comparing with these examples
of English editorship the four volumes of Ballads recently published by Mr. Child. They are
an honor to American scholarship and fidelity. Taste, learning, and modesty, the three graces
of editorship, seem to have presided over the whole work. We hope soon, also, to be able to
chronicle another creditable achievement in Mr. White's Shakspeare, which we look for with
great interest.

 History of the Inductive Sciences, from the Earliest to
   the Present Time. By WILLIAM WHEWELL, D.D.,
   Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. Third Edition,
   with Additions. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 1858.
   2 vols. 8vo. pp. 566, 648.

We are heartily glad to welcome this reprint of the "History of the Inductive Sciences," from
an improved edition. From an intimate acquaintance with the first edition, we should cordially
recommend these volumes to those who wish to take a general survey of this department of human
learning. The various subjects are, for the most part, treated in a manner intelligible and
agreeable to the unlearned reader. As an authority, Whewell is generally trustworthy, and as
a critic usually fair. But in a work going over so much ground it would be unreasonable to
expect perfect accuracy, and uniformly just estimates of the labors of all scientific men.
Dr. Whewell's scientific philosophy naturally affects his ability as an historian and critic.
In his Bridgewater Treatise, he indulged in a fling at mathematics, for which we have never
wholly forgiven him; and in the present volume we see repeated evidence of his underestimate
of the value of the sciences of Space and Time. He says, Vol. I. p. 600, that it was an "erroneous
assumption" in Plato to hold mathematical truths as "Realities more real than the Phenomena."
But to us it seems impossible to understand any work of Nature aright, except by taking this
view of Plato. The study of natural science is deserving of the contempt which Samuel Johnson
bestowed upon it, if it be not a study of the thoughts of the Divine Mind. And as phenomena
are subject to laws of space and time as their essential condition, they are primarily a revelation
of the mathematical thoughts of the Creator. Those mathematical ideas are, in Erigena's phrase,
the created creators of all that can appear.

This false view of the mathematics lies at the foundation of Whewell's view of a type in organized
nature. He conceives a genus to consist of those species which resemble the typical species
of the genus more than they resemble the typical species of any other genus. It follows from
this view that a species might be created that would not belong to any genus, but resemble
equally the types of two or three genera. Thus, our little rue-leaved anemone might belong
to the meadow rues or to the wind-flowers, at the pleasure of the botanist. We believe that
classification is vastly more real than this, real as geometry itself. Another instance of
a similar want of idealism in Dr. Whewell may be found in Vol. II. p. 643:--"Nothing is added
to the evidence of design by the perception of a unity of plan which in no way tends to promote
the design." Now to one who believes, with us, that a thought is as real as the execution of
the thought, the perception of a unity of plan is the highest evidence of design. No more convincing
evidence of the existence of an Intelligent Designer is to be found than in the unity of plan,--and
his design, thus proved, is the completion of the plan. For what purpose he would complete
it, is a secondary question.

In this third edition many valuable additions have been made; and no tales of Oriental fancy
could be more wonderful than some of these records of the discoveries in exact science made
by our contemporaries. What more magical than the miracles performed every day in our telegraphic
offices?--unless it be the transmission of human speech in that manner under the waves of the
Mediterranean from Africa to Europe. What more like the dreams of alchemy than taking metallic
casts, in cold metal, with infinitely more delicacy and accuracy than by melted metals,--taking
them, too, from the most fragile and perishable moulds? What sounds more purely fanciful than
to assert a connection between variations in the direction of the compass-needle and spots
on the surface of the sun! or what is more improbable than that the period of solar spots should
be ten years? What would seem to be more completely beyond the reach of human measurement than
the relative velocities of light in air and in water, since the velocity in each is probably
not less than a hundred thousand miles a second? Yet two different experimenters arrived, according
to Whewell, in the same year, 1850, at the same result,-- that the motion is slower in water;
thus supplying the last link of experimental proof to establish the undulatory theory of light.
While the records of science are strewn on every page with accounts of such triumphs of human
skill and intellect, we see no need of resorting to fiction or to necromancy for the gratification
of a natural taste for the marvellous.

It is true, Dr. Whewell does not give these discoveries, in the spirit of an alchemist, as
marvels,--but in the spirit of a philosopher, as intellectual triumphs. Few men of our times
have shown a more active and powerful mind, a more earnest love of truth for truth's sake,
than the author of this History,--and few men have had a wider or more thorough knowledge of
the achievements of other scientific men. Yet we are surprised, in reading this improved edition,
written scarce a twelvemonth ago, to find how ignorant Dr. Whewell appears to have been of
the existence or value of the contributions to knowledge made on this side the Atlantic. The
chapter on Electro-Magnetism does not allude to the discoveries of Joseph Henry, in regard
to induced currents, and the adaptation of varying batteries to varying circuits,--discoveries
second in importance only to those of Faraday,--and which were among the direct means of leading
Morse to the invention of the telegraph. The chapters on Geology do not mention Professor Hall,
and only allude in a patronizing way to the labors of American geologists, and to the ease
of "reducing their classification to its synonymes and equivalents in the Old World," as though
the historian were not aware that Hall's nomenclature is adopted on the continent of Europe
by the most eminent men in that department of science. In Geological Dynamics Dr. Whewell speaks
slightingly of glacial action, and approves of Forbes's semifluid theory, in utter ignorance,
it would seem, of the labors of the Swiss geologists who now honor America with their presence.
The chapters on Zoology, and on Classifications of Animals, make no allusion to Agassiz's introduction
of Embryology as an element in classification, which was published several years before the
"close of 1856." The history of Neptune gives no hint of the fact, that its orbit was first
determined through the labors of American astronomers, with all the accuracy that fifty years
of observation might otherwise have been required to secure. Nor does Dr. Whewell allude to
the fact, that Peirce alone has demonstrated the accuracy of Le Verrier's and Adams's computations,
and shown that a planet in the place which they erroneously assigned to Neptune would produce
the same perturbations of Uranus as those which Neptune produced. Much less does he allude
to that wonderful demonstration by Peirce of the younger Bond's hypothesis, that the rings
of Saturn are fluid; or to Peirce's remark, that the belt of the asteroids lies in the region
in which the sun could most nearly sustain a ring. Yet all these points are more important
than many of those which he introduces, and more to the purpose of his chapters.

Notwithstanding these deficiencies in Whewell's scholarship and in his philosophy, his History
is a valuable addition to our modern literature, and gives a better sketch of the whole ground
than can be found in any other single work. It is particularly valuable to those whose ordinary
pursuits lead them into other fields than those of science, and we have known such to acknowledge
their great obligations to these clearly written and most suggestive volumes.

 The Life of George Stephenson, Railway Engineer.
   By SAMUEL SMILES. From the
   Fourth London Edition. Boston: Ticknor
   & Fields.

There is something sublime about railway engineers. But what shall we say of the pioneer of
this almost superhuman profession? The world would give much to know what Vulcan, Hercules,
Theseus, and other celebrities of that sort, really did in their mortal lives to win the places
they now occupy in our classical dictionaries, and what sort of people they really were. But
whatever they did, manifestly somebody, within a generation or two, has done something quite
as memorable. Whether the world is quite awake to the fact or not, it has lately entered on
a new order of ages. Formerly it hovered about shores, and built its Tyres, Venices, Amsterdams,
and London only near navigable waters, because it was easier to traverse a thousand miles of
fluid than a hundred miles of solid surface. Now the case is nearly reversed. The iron rail
is making the continent all coast, anywhere near neighbor to everywhere, and central cities
as populous as seaports. Not only is all the fertility of the earth made available, but fertility
itself can be made by our new power of transportation.

Who more than other man or men has done this? Is there any chance for a new mythology? Can
we make a Saturn of Solomon de Caus, who caught a prophetic glimpse of the locomotive two hundred
years ago, and went to a mad-house, without going mad, because a cardinal had the instinct
to see that the hierarchy would get into hot water by allowing the French monarch to encourage
steam? Can we make a Jupiter of Mr. Hudson, one bull having been plainly sacrificed to him?
and shall Robert Schuyler serve us for Pluto? Shall we find Neptune, with his sleeves rolled
up, on the North River, commanding the first practical steamboat, under the name of Robert
Fulton? However this may be, we think Mr. Smiles has made out a quite available demigod in
his well-sketched Railway Engineer. George Stephenson did not invent the railway or the locomotive,
but he did first put the breath of its life into the latter. He built the first locomotive
that could work more economically than a horse, and by so doing became the actual father of
the railroad system. In 1814, he found out and applied the steam-blast, whereby the waste steam
from the cylinders is used to increase the combustion, so that the harder the machine works,
the greater is its power to work. From that moment he foresaw what has since happened, and
fought like a Titan against the world--the men of land, the men of science, and the men of
law--to bring it about.

But before we go farther, who was this George Stephenson? A collier-boy,--his father fireman
to an old pumping-engine which drained a Northumbrian coal-mine,--his highest ambition of boyhood
to be "taken on" to have something to do about the mine. And he was taken on to pick over the
coal, and finally to groom the engine, which he did with the utmost care and veneration, learning
how to keep it well and doctor it when ill. He took wonderfully to steam-engines, and finally,
for their sake, to his letters, at the age of seventeen! He became steam-engineer to large
mines. Of his own genius and humanity, he studied the nature of fire-damp explosions, and,
what is not more wonderful than well proven, invented a miner's safety-lamp, on the same principle
as Sir Humphrey Davy's, and tested it at the risk of his life, a month or two before Sir Humphrey
invented his, or published a syllable about it to the world! He engineered the Stockton and
Darlington Railway. He was thereupon appointed engineer of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway.
Though the means of transportation between those cities, some thirty miles, were so inadequate
that it took longer to get cotton conveyed from Liverpool to Manchester than from New York
to Liverpool, yet it was with the utmost difficulty that a grant of the right to build a railway
could be obtained from Parliament. There was little faith in such roads, and still less in
steam-traction. The land-owners were opposed to its passage through their domains, and obliged
Mr. Stephenson to survey by stealth or at the risk of a broken head. So great was this opposition,
that the projectors were fain to lay out their road for four miles across a remarkable Slough
of Despond, called Chat Moss, where a scientific civil-engineer testified before Parliament
that he did not think it practicable to make a railway, or, if practicable, at not less cost
than L270,000 for cutting and embankment. George Stephenson, after being almost hooted out
of the witness-box for testifying that it could be done, and that locomotives could draw trains
over it and elsewhere at the rate of twelve miles an hour,--for which last extravagance his
own friends rebuked him,--carried the road over Chat Moss for L28,000, and his friends over
that at the rate of thirty miles an hour. Thus he broke the back of the war, and lived to fill
England with railroads as the fruits of his victory; all which, and a great deal more of the
same sort, the reader will find admirably told by Mr. Smiles,--albeit we cannot but smile too,
that, when addressing the universal English people, he expects them to understand such provincialisms
as wage for wages, leading coals for carrying coal, and the like. But, nevertheless, his freedom
from literary pretence is really refreshing, and his thoroughness in matters of fact is worthy
of almost unlimited commendation. On the important question, Who invented the locomotive steam-blast?
had Mr. Smiles made in his book as good use of his materials as he has since elsewhere, he
would have saved some engineers and one or two mechanical editors from putting their feet into
unpleasant places. Our Railroad Manuals, that have adopted the error of attributing this great
invention to "Timothy Hackworth, in 1827," should be made to read, "George Stephenson, in 1814."
Their authors, and all others, should read Samuel Smiles, the uppermost, by a whole sky, of
all railway biographers.

 A Volume of Vocabularies, illustrating the Condition and Manners
  of our Forefathers, as well as the History of the Forms of
  Elementary Education and of the Languages spoken in this Island,
  from the Tenth Century to the Fifteenth. Edited, from MSS. in
  Public and Private Collections, by THOMAS WRIGHT, ESQ., etc.
  Privately printed. [London.] 1857. 8vo. pp. 291.

Mr. Wright, in editing this handsome volume, has done another service to the lovers and students
of English glossology. Their thanks are also due to Mr. Joseph Mayer, who generously bore the
expense of printing the book.

A great deal that is interesting to the student of general history lies imbedded in language,
and Mr. Wright, in a very agreeable Introduction, has summarized the chief matters of value
in the collection before us, which comprises the printed copies of sixteen ancient MSS. of
various dates. As far as we have had time to examine it, the book seems to have been edited
with care and discretion, and Mr. Wright has added much to its value by timely and judicious notes.

Most of the vocabularies here printed (many of them for the first time) were intended for the
use of schoolmasters, and throw great light on the means and methods of teaching during the
periods at which they were compiled. Mr. Wright tells us that there exist very few MSS. of
educational treatises of the fourteenth century, (during which teaching would accordingly seem
to have been neglected,) in comparison with the thirteenth and fifteenth, when such works were
abundant. To all who would trace the history of education in England and follow up our common-school
system to its source, the editor's Introduction will afford valuable hints.

The following extracts from Mr. Wright's Introduction will give some notion of the archaeological
and philological value of the volume.

  "It is this circumstance of grouping the
  words under different heads which gives these
  vocabularies their value as illustrations of the
  conditions and manners of society. It is evident
  that the compiler gave, in each case, the
  names of all such things as habitually presented
  themselves to his view, or, in other
  words, that he presents us with an exact list
  and description of all the objects which were
  in use at the time he wrote, and no more.
  We have, therefore, in each a sort of measure
  of the fashions and comforts and utilities of
  contemporary life, as well as, in some cases, of
  its sentiments. Thus, to begin with a man's
  habitation, his house,--the words which describe
  the parts of the Anglo-Saxon house are
  few in number, a heal or hall, a bur or bedroom,
  and in some cases a cicen or kitchen,
  and the materials are chiefly beams of wood,
  laths, and plaster. But when we come to
  the vocabularies of the Anglo-Norman period,
  we soon find traces of that ostentation in domestic
  buildings which William of Malmsbury
  assures us that the Normans introduced
  into this island; the house becomes more
  massive, and the rooms more numerous, and
  more diversified in their purposes. When we
  look at the furniture of the house, the difference
  is still more apparent. The description
  given by Alexander Neckam of the hall, the
  chambers, the kitchen, and the other departments
  of the ordinary domestic establishment,
  in the twelfth century, and the furniture
  of each, almost brings them before our
  eyes, and nothing could be more curious than
  the account which the same writer gives us
  of the process of building and storing a castle."
      p. xv.

"The philologist will appreciate the tracts printed in the following pages as a continuous
series of very valuable monuments of the languages spoken in our island during the Middle Ages.
It is these vocabularies alone which have preserved from oblivion a very considerable and interesting
portion of the Anglo-Saxon tongue, and without their assistance our Anglo-Saxon dictionaries
would be far more imperfect than they are. I have endeavored to collect together in the present
volume all the Anglo-Saxon vocabularies that are known to exist, not only on account of their
diversity, but because I believe that their individual utility will be increased by thus presenting
them in a collective form. They represent the Anglo-Saxon language as it existed in the tenth
and eleventh centuries; and, as written no doubt in different places, they may possibly present
some traces of the local dialects of that period. The curious semi-Saxon vocabulary is chiefly
interesting as representing the Anglo-Saxon in its period of transition, when it was in a state
of rapid decadence. The interlinear gloss to Alexander Neckam, and the commentary on John de
Garlande, are most important monuments of the language which for a while usurped among our
forefathers the place of the Anglo-Saxon, and which we know by the name of the Anglo-Norman.
In the partial vocabulary of the names of plants, which follows them, we have the two languages
in juxtaposition, the Anglo-Saxon having then emerged from that state which has been termed
semi-Saxon, and become early English. We are again introduced to the English language more
generally by Walter de Biblesworth, the interlinear gloss to whose treatise represents, no
doubt, the English of the beginning of the fourteenth century. All the subsequent vocabularies
given here belong, as far as the language is concerned, to the fifteenth century. As written
in different parts of the country, they bear evident marks of dialect; one of them--the vocabulary
in Latin verse--is a very curious relic of the dialect of the West of England at a period of
which such remains are extremely rare."--p. xix.

 Sermons, preached at Trinity Chapel, Brighton. By the late REV.
  FREDERICK W. ROBERTSON, M. A., the Incumbent. Second Series. From
  the Fourth London Edition. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 12mo.

The biography of Robertson, prefixed to this volume, will gratify the curiosity which every
sympathetic reader of the first series of his sermons must have felt regarding the incidents
of his career. It was evident to a close observer that the peculiar charm and power of the
preacher came from peculiarities of character and individual experience, as well as from peculiarities
of mind. There was something so close and searching in his pathos, so natural in his statements
of doctrine, so winning in his appeals,--his simplest words of consolation or rebuke touched
with such subtile certainty the feelings they addressed,--and his faith in heavenly things
was so clear, deep, intense, and calm,--that the reader could hardly fail to feel that the
earnestness of the preacher had its source in the experience of the man, and that his belief
in the facts of the spiritual world came from insight, and not from hearsay. His biography
confirms this impression. We now learn that he was tried in many ways, and built up a noble
character through intense inward struggle with suffering and calamity,--a character sensitive,
tender, magnanimous, brave, and self-sacrificing, though not thoroughly cheerful. The heroism
evinced in his life and in his sermons is a sad heroism, a heroism that has on it the trace
of tears. Always at work, and dying in harness, the spur of duty made him insensible to the
decay of strength and the need of repose. He had no time to be happy.

The most striking mental characteristic of his sermons is the originality of his perceptions
of religious truth. He takes up the themes and doctrines of the Church, the discussion of which
has filled libraries with books of divinity which stand as an almost impregnable wall around
the simple facts and teachings of the Scriptures, protecting them from attack by shutting them
from sight, and in a few brief and direct statements cuts into the substance and heart of the
subjects. This felicity comes partly from his being a man gifted with spiritual discernment
as well as spiritual feeling, and partly from the instinct of his nature to look at doctrines
in their connection with life. He excels equally in interpreting the truth which may be hidden
in a dogma, and in overturning dogmas in which no truth is to be found. In a single sermon,
he often tells us more of the essentials of a subject, and exhibits more clearly the religious
significance of a doctrine, than other writers have done in labored volumes of exposition and
controversy. This power of simplifying spiritual truth without parting with any of its depth
accounts for the interest with which his sermons are read by persons of all degrees of age
and culture. His method of arrangement is also admirable; his thoughts are not only separately
excellent, but are all in their right places, so that each is an efficient agent in deepening
the general impression left by the whole. The singular refinement and beauty of his mind lend
a peculiar charm to its boldness; we have the soul of courage without the rough outside which
so often accompanies it; and his diction, being on a level with his themes, never offends that
fine detecting spiritual taste which instinctively takes offence when spiritual things are
viewed through unspiritual moods and clothed in words which smack of the senses. Combine all
his characteristics, his intrepidity of disposition and intellect, his deep experience of religious
truth, the sad earnestness of his faith, his penetration of thought, his direct, executive
expression, and the beauty which pervades and harmonizes all,--and it is hazarding little to
say, that his volumes will take the rank of classics in the department of theology to which
they belong.

 The Church and the Congregation. A Plea
   for their Unity. By C. A. BARTOL.
   Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 16mo.

As church-membership is in some respects the aristocracy of Congregationalism, and as it is
considered by many minds to be as necessary for the safety of theology as the old distinction
of esoteric and exoteric was for the safety of philosophy, the publication by a clergyman of
such a volume as this, with its purpose clearly indicated by its title, will excite some surprise,
and certainly should excite discussion. Mr. Bartol contends for open communion, as most consonant
with Scripture, with the spirit of Christianity, with the practice of the early Church, with
the meaning and purpose of the rite. He denies that the ordinance of the Lord's Supper has
any sacredness above prayer, or any of the other ordinances of religion; and while he appreciates
and perhaps exaggerates its importance, he thinks that its most beneficent effects will be
seen when it is the symbol of unity, and not of division. The usual distinction between Church
and Congregation he considers invidious and mischievous, as not indicating a corresponding
distinction in religious character, and as separating the body of Christian worshippers into
two parts by a mechanical rather than spiritual process. Though he meets objections with abundant
controversial ability, the strength of his position is due not so much to his negative arguments
as to his affirmative statements; for his statements have in them the peculiar vitality of
that mood of meditation in which spiritual things are directly beheld rather than logically
inferred, and, being thus the expression of spiritual perceptions, they feel their way at once
to the spiritual perceptions of the reader, to be judged by the common sense of the soul instead
of the common sense of the understanding. This is the highest quality of the book, and indicates
not only that the author has religion, but religious genius; but there is also much homely
sagacity evinced in viewing what may be called the practical aspects of the subject, and answering
from experience the objections which experience may raise. The writer is so deeply in earnest,
has meditated so intensely on the subject, and is so free from the repellent qualities which
are apt to embitter theological controversies, that even when his ideas come into conflict
with the most obstinate prejudices and rooted convictions, there is nothing in his mode of
stating or enforcing them to give offence. The book will win its way by the natural force of
what truth there is in it, and the most that an opponent can say is, that the author is in
error; it cannot be said that he is arrogant, contemptuous, self-asserting, or that he needlessly
shocks the opinions he aims to change.

Mr. Bartol's style is bold, fervid, and figurative, exhibiting a wide command of language and
illustration, and at times rising into passages of singular beauty and eloquence. The fertility
of his mind in analogies enables him to strengthen his leading conception with a large number
of related thoughts, and the whole subject of vital Christianity is thus continually in view,
and connected with the special theme he discusses. This characteristic will make his volume
interesting and attractive to many readers who are either opposed to his views of the Lord's
Supper, or are unable to agree with him in regard to the importance of the change he proposes.