As I gave my whole strength to the effort I was dimly aware of screams and panic among the
nursery--maids and children who were but a moment before my fellow-spectators. At the same
time I caught the flash of the Guardsman's sabre as he cut down at me after the fashion prescribed
in the broadsword exercise. Fortune, however, did not desert me. My antagonist had not enough
elbow-room, and his sword-point was shivered against the stone arch overhead, the blade descending
flatways and harmlessly upon my well-protected shoulder just as, with a final effort, I tumbled
him out his saddle.

The recollection of the ludicrous figure which that Guardsman cut haunts me still. His pipeclayed
gloves clutched wildly at holster and cantle as he went over. Down came the gleaming helmet
crashing upon the pavement, and with a calamitous rattle and bang the whole complicated structure
of corselet, scabbard, carbine, cross-belts, spurs and boots went into the inside corner of
the archway, a helpless heap.

That started the horse. The noble animal had stood my assault as steadily as if he had been
cast in bronze, but precisely such an emergency as this had never been contemplated in his
training, as it had not in that of his master, and he now started forward rather wildly. I
had my hand on the bridle before he had moved a foot, and swung myself half over his back as
he dashed across the sidewalk and up Whitehall. The Guards' saddles are very easy when once
you are in them, and I had reason, temporarily at least, to approve the English style of riding
with short stirrups, for I readily found my seat, and ascertained that I could touch bottom
with my toes. As I left the scene of my victory behind me I heard the guards turning out, and
caught a glimpse as of all London running in my direction, but by the time that I had secured
the control of my horse I had distanced the crowd, and as we entered the Strand we attracted
comparatively little notice. In driving, the English turn out to the left instead of to the
right, as is the custom here, and I was obliged to cross the westward-bound line of vehicles
before I could fall in with that which would bring me to my boys. I decided to make a "carom"
of it, and nearly took the heads off a pair of horses, and the pole off the omnibus to which
they were attached, as I dashed through. Turning to the right, I soon lost the torrent of invective
hurled after me by the driver and conductor of the discomfited 'bus, and in less than two minutes--which
seemed to me an age, for the pursuit was drawing near--I reached my boys, dropped them a half
sov. apiece, which I had ready in my hand, and bolted for my hairdresser's, the boys leading
the horse in the opposite direction, as previously ordered.

It was none too soon, for as I ran up stairs I saw three or four policemen running toward the
horse, and there was a gleam of dancing plumes and shining helmets toward Whitehall. My false
beard and complexion were changed with marvelous rapidity, and, assuming my promenade costume,
I sauntered down stairs and out upon the sidewalk in time to see the whole street jammed with
a crowd of excited Britons, while the recaptured horse was turned over to the Guardsmen, and
the two boys were marched off to Bow street for examination before a magistrate.

A private room and an elaborate dinner at the United Service Club closed the day; and I must
admit that my military friends swallowed their evident chagrin with a very good grace. Of course
I was told that I could not do it again, which I readily admitted; and that there was not another
man in the troop whom I could have unhorsed--an assertion which I as persistently combated.
The affair was officially hushed up, and probably not more than a few thousand people ever
heard of it outside military circles.

How I escaped arrest and punishment to the extent of the law I did not know for many years,
for the duke of Wellington, who was then commander-in-chief, had only to order the officers
concerned under arrest, and I should have been in honor bound to come forward with a voluntary
confession.

My giant was sent for to the old duke's private room the day after his overthrow, and questioned
sharply by the adjutant, who, with pardonable incredulity, suspected that bribery alone could
have brought about so direful a catastrophe. The duke was from the first convinced of the soldier's,
honesty and bravery, and presently broke in upon the adjutant's examination with--"Well, well!
speak to me now. What have you to say for yourself?"

"May it please yer ludship," said the undismayed soldier, "I've never fought a civilian sence
I 'listed, an' yer ludship will bear me witness that there's nothing in the cavalry drill about
resisting a charge of foot when a mon's on post at the Horse Guards."

This speech was delivered with the most perfect sincerity and sobriety, and although it reflected
upon the efficiency of the army under the hero of Waterloo, the Iron Duke was so much impressed
by the affair that he sent word to Lieutenant-Colonel Varian, commanding the regiment, not
to order the man any punishment whatever, but to see that his command was thereafter trained
in view of possible attacks, even when posted in front of army head-quarters.

CHARLES L. NORTON.

PAINTING AND A PAINTER.

Charles V. once said, "Titian should be served by Caesar;" and Michael Angelo, we read, was
treated by Lorenzo de' Medici "as a son;" Raphael, his contemporary, was great enough to revere
him, and thank God he had lived at the same time. In England, in France, in Germany, in Italy,
in Spain at this day, the poet and the painter stand hedged about by the divinity of their
gifts, and the people are proud to recognize their kingship.

Has "Reverence, that angel of the world," as Shakespeare beautifully says, forgot to visit
America? Or must we consider ourselves less capable yet of delicate appreciation, such as older
nations possess? Or are we over-occupied in gaining possession of material comforts and luxuries,
and so forget to revere our poets and painters till it is too late, and the curtain has fallen
upon their unobtrusive and often struggling earthly career? What a millennium will have arrived
when we learn to be as faithful to our love as we are sincere!

Questions like these have been asked also in times preceding ours. Alfred de Musset wrote upon
this subject in 1833, in Paris: "There are people who tell you our age is preoccupied, that
men no longer read anything or care for anything. Napoleon was occupied, I think, at Beresina:
he, however, had his Ossian with him. When did Thought lose the power of being able to leap
into the saddle behind Action? When did man forget to rush like Tyrtaeus to the combat, a sword
in one hand, the lyre in the other? Since the world still has a body, it has a soul."

Monsieur Charles Blanc writes: "In order to have an idea of the importance of the arts, it
is enough to fancy what the great nations of the world would be if the monuments they have
erected to their faiths, and the works whereon they have left the mark of their genius, were
suppressed from history. It is with people as with men--after death only the emanations of
their mind remain; that is to say, literature and art, written poems, and poems inscribed on
stone, in marble or in color."

The same writer, in his admirable book, Grammaire des arts du dessin, from which we are tempted
to quote again and again, says: "The artist who limits himself simply to the imitation of Nature
reaches only individuality: he is a slave. He who interprets Nature sees in her happy qualities;
he evolves character from her; he is master. The artist who idealizes her discovers in her
or imprints upon her the image of beauty: this last is a great master.... Placed between Nature
and the ideal, between what is and what must be, the artist has a vast career before him in
order to pass from the reality he sees to the beauty he divines. If we follow him in this career,
we see his model transform itself successively before his eyes.... But the artist must give
to these creations of his soul the imprint of life, and he can only find this imprint in the
individuals Nature has created. The two are inseparable--the type, which is a product of thought,
and the individual, which is a child of life."

With this excellent analysis before us, we will recall one by one some of the best-known and
most interesting works of W.M. Hunt, a painter who now holds a prominent place among the artists
of America. We will try to discover by careful observation if the high gifts of Verity and
Imagination, the sign and seal of the true artist, really belong to him: if so, where these
qualities are expressed, and what value we should set upon them.

First, perhaps, for those readers remote from New England who may never have seen any pictures
by this artist, a few words should be said by way of describing some characteristics of his
work and the limitations of it; which limitations are rather loudly dwelt upon by connoisseurs
and lovers of the popular modern French school. Artists discern these limitations of course
more keenly even than others, but their tribute to verity and ideal beauty as represented by
this painter is too sincere to allow caviling to find expression. This limitation to which
we refer causes Mr. Hunt to allow ideal suggestions, rather than pictures, to pass from his
studio, and makes him cowardly before his own work. It recalls in a contrary sense that saying
of the sculptor Puget: "The marble trembles before me." Mr. Hunt trembles before his new-born
idea. His swift nature has allowed him in the first hour of work to put into his picture the
tenderness or rapture, the unconscious grace or tempestuous force, which he despaired at first
of ever being able to express. In the flush of success he stops: he has it, the idea; the chief
interest of the subject is portrayed before him; the delicate presence (and what can be more
delicate than the thoughts he has delineated?) is there, and may vanish if touched in a less
fortunate moment. But is this lack of fulfillment in the artist entirely without precedent
or parallel? Had not Sir Joshua Reynolds a studio full of young artists who "finished off"
his pictures? Were not the very faces themselves painted with such rapidity and want of proper
method as to drop off, on occasion, entirely from the canvas, as in case of the boy's head,
in being carried through the street? Hunt is of our own age, and would scorn the suggestion
of having a hand or a foot painted for him, as if it were a matter of small importance what
individual expression a hand or a foot should wear; but who can tell for what future age he
has painted the wise, abrupt, kind, persistent, simple, strong old Judge in his Yankee coat;
or the genial, resolute, hopeful, self-sacrificing governor of Massachusetts; and the Master
of the boys, with his keen, loving, uncompromising face? These are pictures that, when children
say, "Tell us about the Governor who helped Massachusetts bring her men first into the field
during our war," we may lead them up before and reply, "He was this man!" So also with the
portraits of the Judge, of the Master of the boys, of the old man with clear eyes and firm
mouth, and that sweet American girl standing, unconscious of observation, plucking at the daisy
in her hat and guessing at her fate.

Hurry, impatience and a worship of crude thought are characteristics of our present American
life. Hunt is one of us. If these faults mark and mar his work, they show him also to be a
child of the time. His quick sympathies are caught by the wayside and somewhat frayed out among
his fellows; but nevertheless one essential of a great painter, that of Verity, will be accorded
to him after an examination of the pictures we have mentioned.

But truth, character, skill, the many gifts and great labor which must unite to lead an artist
to the foot of his shadowy, sun-crowned mountain, can then carry him no step farther unless
ideal Beauty join him, and he comprehend her nature and follow to her height. Again we quote
from Charles Blanc--for why should we rewrite what he says so ably?--"All the germs of beauty
are in Nature, but it belongs to the spirit of man alone to disengage them. When Nature is
beautiful, the painter knows that she is beautiful, but Nature knows nothing of it. Thus beauty
exists only on the condition of being understood--that is to say, of receiving a second life
in the human thought. Art has something else to do than to copy Nature exactly: it must penetrate
into the spirit of things, it must evoke the soul of its hero. It can then not only rival Nature,
but surpass her. What is indeed the superiority of Nature? It is the life which animates all
her forms. But man possesses a treasure which Nature does not possess--thought. Now thought
is more than life, for it is life at its highest power, life in its glory. Man can then contest
with Nature by manifesting thought in the forms of art, as Nature manifests life in her forms.
In this sense the philosopher Hegel was able to say that the creations of art were truer than
the phenomena of the physical world and the realities of history."

Now, thought in the soul of the true artist for ever labors to evolve the beautiful. This is
what the thought of a picture means to him--how to express beauty, which he finds underlying
even the imperfect individual of Nature's decaying birth. To the high insight this is always
discernible. None are so fallen that some ray of God's light may not touch them, and this possibility,
the faith in light for ever, radiates from the spirit of the artist, and renders him a messenger
of joy. No immortal works have bloomed in despondency: they may have taken root in the slime
of the earth, but they have blossomed into lilies.

We call this divine power to discern beauty in every manifestation of the Deity, imagination.
As it expresses itself in painting, it is so closely allied with what is highest and holiest
in our natures that painting has come to be esteemed a Christian art, as contrasted in its
development subsequent to the Christian era with the less human works of sculpture. "Christianity
came, and instead of physical beauty substituted moral beauty, infinitely preferring the expression
of the soul to the perfection of the body. Every man was great in its eyes, not by his perishable
members, but by his immortal soul. With this religion begins the reign of painting, which is
a more subtle art, more immaterial, than the others--more expressive, and also more individual.
We will give some proofs of it. Instead of acting, like architecture and sculpture, upon the
three dimensions of heavy matter, painting acts only upon one surface, and produces its effects
with an imponderable thing, which is color--that is to say, light. Hegel has said with admirable
wisdom: 'In sculpture and architecture forms are rendered visible by exterior light. In painting,
on the contrary, matter, obscure in itself, has within itself its internal element, its ideal--light:
it draws from itself both clearness and obscurity. Now, unity, the combination of light and
dark, is color.' The painter, then, proposes to himself to represent, not bodies with their
real thickness, but simply their appearance, their image; but by this means it is the mind
which he addresses. Visible but impalpable, and in some sense immaterial, his work does not
meet the touch, which is the sight of the body: it only meets the eye, which is the touch of
the soul. Painting is then, from this point of view, the essential art of Christianity....
If the painter, like Phidias or Lysippus, had only to portray the types of humanity, the majesty
of Jupiter, the strength of Hercules, he might do without the riches of color, and paint in
one tone, modified only by light and shade; but the most heroic man among Christians is not
a demigod: he is a being profoundly individual, tormented, combating, suffering, and who throughout
his real life shares with environing Nature, and receives from every side the reflection of
her colors. Sculpture, generalizing, raises itself to the dignity of allegory--painting, individualizing,
descends to the familiarity of portraiture."

Let us now return to consider William Hunt's pictures from this second point of view. The gift
of Verity having been already assumed, can we also discern that higher power of Imagination
whose crown and seal is the Beautiful. To decide this question we have, unhappily, to consider
his work as lyrical, rather than dramatic, and for this reason we must study his power under
disadvantage. That he possesses dramatic power will hardly be denied by those who know his
"Hamlet," "The Drummer-Boy," and "The Boy and the Butterfly;" but the exigencies of life appear
to prevent him from occupying himself with compositions such as filled years in the existence
of the old painters.

Portraiture being the highest and most difficult labor to which an artist can aspire, to this
branch of art Hunt has chiefly confined himself, and from this point of view he must be studied.
We do not forget, in saying this, his angel with the flaming torch, strong and beautiful and
of unearthly presence, nor the shadowy, half-portrayed figures which dart and flit across his
easel; but as we may understand the power of Titian from his portraits, yet never revel in
it fully until we look upon "The Presentation" or "The Assumption"--never comprehend the painter's
joy or his divine rest in endeavor until the achievement lies before us--we must speak of Hunt
only from the work to which he has devoted himself, and not do him the injustice to predict
dramas he has never yet composed.

First, pre-eminently appears that worship for moral beauty which suffers him to fear no ugliness.
This power allies him with keen sympathy to every living thing. He sees kinship and the immortal
spark in each breathing being. The soul of love goes out and paints the dark or the suffering
or the repellant faithfully, bringing it in to the light where God's sunshine may fall upon
it, and men and women, seeing for the first time, may help to wipe away the stain. This tendency
he shares with the great French painter Millet, whom he loves to call Master, and with Dore,
whose terrible picture of "The Mountebanks" should call men and women from their homes to penetrate
the fastnesses of vice and strive to heal the sorrows of their kind.

This love of moral beauty, which forces painters to paint such pictures, was never in any age
more evident. Hunt in his beggar-man, in his forlorn children, and other pictures of the same
class, unfolds a beauty that men should be thankful for.

On the other hand, his love of beauty and his power of expressing it should be studied in its
direct influence. The beauty of flesh and blood, even the loveliness of children, seems to
have slight hold upon him, compared with the significance of character and the lustre with
which his imagination endows everything. This lustre is a distinguishing power with him. The
depth to which he sees and feels causes him to give higher lights and deeper shadows than other
men. White flowers are not only white to him--they shine like stars. His pictures give a sense
of splendor.

In his sketch of the poor mother cuddling her child, it is the feeling of rest, the mother's
sleeping joy, the relaxed limbs, the folding embrace, which he has given us to enjoy. These
are the beauty of the picture--not rounded flesh, nor graceful curves, nor fair complexion;
and so with the singing-girls: they are not beautiful girls, but they are simple--they love
to sing, they are full of tenderness and music. We might go over all his pictures to weariness
in this way. The young girl plucking at the daisy as she stands in an open field must, however,
not be omitted. The natural elegance of this portrait renders it peculiarly, we should say,
such a one as any woman would be proud to see of herself. Doubtless this young girl, like others,
may have worn ear-rings and chains and pins and rings, but the artist knew her better than
she knew herself, and has portrayed that exquisite crown of simplicity with which, it should
seem, Nature only endows beggars and her royal favorites.

In all the ages since Hamlet was created there appears never to have been an era in which his
character has excited such strong and universal interest as in America at this time. William
Hunt has thrown upon the canvas a figure of Hamlet beautiful and living. There is no suggestion
of any actor in it. Hamlet walks new-born from the painter's brain. His "cursed spite" bends
the youthful shoulders, and the figure marches past unmindful of terrestrial presences.

One other picture will illustrate more clearly, perhaps, than everything which has gone before,
this gift of imagination. In "The Boy and the Butterfly," now on the walls of the Century Club-house,
the loveliness of the child, the power of action, the subtle management of color and light,
are all subordinated to the ideas of defeat and endeavor. Energy, the irrepressible strength
of the spirit upheld by a divine light of indestructible youth, shines out from the canvas.
The boy who cannot catch the butterfly is transmuted as we stand into the Soul of Beauty reaching
out in vain for satisfaction, and ready to follow its aspiration to another sphere.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

WILHELMINE VON HILLERN.

German literature, despite its extraordinary productiveness and its possession of a few great
masterpieces, is far from being rich in the department of belles-lettres, especially in works
of fiction. It has no list of novelists like those which include such names as Fielding, Scott
and Thackeray, Balzac, Hugo and Sand. In fact, there is scarcely an instance of a male writer
in Germany who has devoted himself exclusively to this branch of literature, and has won high
distinction in it. It has been cultivated with success chiefly by a few writers of the other
sex, whose delineations have gained a popularity in America only less than that which they
enjoy at home--in part because the life which they depict has closer internal analogies to
our own than to that of England or of France, still more perhaps because the pictures themselves,
whatever their intrinsic fidelity, are suffused with a romantic glow which has long since faded
from those of the thoroughly realistic art now dominant in the two latter countries.

In none of them is this characteristic more apparent than in the works of Wilhelmine von Hillern,
which bear also in a marked degree the stamp of a mind at once vigorous and sympathetic, and
are thus calculated to awaken the interest of readers in regard to the author's personal history.

Her father, Doctor Christian Birch, a Dane by birth and originally a diplomatist by profession,
held for many years the post of secretary of legation at London and Paris. He withdrew from
this career on the occasion of his marriage with a German lady connected with the stage in
the triple capacity of author, manager and actress. Madame Birch-Pfeiffer, as she is commonly
called, was one of the celebrities of her time, and her dramatic productions still keep possession
of the stage. Soon after the birth of her daughter, which took place at Munich, she was invited
to assume the direction of the theatre of Zurich. Here Wilhelmine passed several years of her
childhood, separated from her father, whose engagements as a political writer retained him
in Germany, and scarcely less divided from her mother, whose duties at this period did not
permit her to give much attention to domestic cares. Without companions of her own age, and
left almost wholly to the charge of an invalid aunt, she led a monotonous existence, which
left an impression on her mind all the more deep from its contrast with the life which opened
upon her in her eighth year, when Madame Birch-Pfeiffer was summoned to Berlin to hold an appointment
at the court theatre.

In the Prussian capital the family was again united, and became the centre of a social circle
embracing many persons connected with dramatic art and literature. Devrient, Dawison and Jenny
Lind were among the visitors whose conversation was greedily listened to by the little girl
while supposed to be immersed in her lessons or her plays. Under such influences it would have
been strange if even a less active brain had not been fired with aspirations, which took the
form of an irresistible impulse when, at thirteen, Wilhelmine was allowed for the first time
to visit the theatre and witness the acting of Dawison in Hamlet and other parts. Henceforth
all opposition had to give way, and in her seventeenth year she made her début as Juliet at
the ducal theatre of Coburg. Two qualities, we are told, distinguished her acting: a strong
conception worked out in the minutest details, and an intensity of passion which knew no restraint,
and at its culminating point overpowered even hostile criticism. Subsequently careful training
under Edward Devrient and Madame Glossbrenner enabled her to bring her emotions under better
control, repressing all tendency to extravagance; and, greeted with the assurance that she
was destined to become the German Rachel, she entered upon her career with a round of performances
at the principal theatres of Germany, including those of Frankfort, Hamburg and Berlin.

These triumphs were followed by the acceptance of a permanent engagement at Mannheim, which,
however, had hardly been concluded when it gave place to one of a different kind, followed
by her marriage and sudden relinquishment of the vocation embraced with such ardor and pursued
for a short period with such brilliant promise. Dawison is said to have remarked that by her
retirement the German stage had lost its last genuine tragic actress.

Since her marriage Madame von Hillern has resided at Freiburg, in the grand duchy of Baden,
where her husband holds a legal position analogous to that of the judge of a superior court.
Her social life is one of great activity, though much of her time is given to superintending
the education of her two daughters. But the abounding energy of her nature made it inevitable
that her artistic instincts, repressed in one direction, should seek their full development
in another. Literature was naturally her choice. Her first work, Doppelleben, appeared in 1865,
and though defective in construction, owing to a change of plan in the process of composition,
served to give assurance of her powers and to inspire her with the requisite confidence. Three
years later Ein Arzt der Seele, of which a translation under the title of Only a Girl has been
widely circulated in America, established her claim to a high place among the writers of her
class. Her third work, Aus eigener Kraft (By his own Might), met with equal success, securing
for its author a large circle of readers on both sides of the Atlantic ready to welcome the
future productions of her pen. The qualities which distinguish her writings are vigor of conception,
sharpness of characterization, a moral earnestness pervading the judgments and reflections,
and an ardor, sometimes too exuberant, which gives intensity to the delineation even while
exciting doubts of its fidelity. Similar qualities had characterized her acting, and they spring
from a nature which a close observer has described as clear in perception yet swayed by fantasy;
strong of will yet impulsive as quicksilver; finding enjoyment now in animated discussion,
now in impetuous riding, now in absolute repose; full of maternal tenderness, yet fond of splendor
and the excitements of society; a nature, in short, abounding in contrasts, but substantially
that of a true, noble and lovable woman.

HIS NAME?

(An incident of the Boston fire.)

    I.

             --Oh the billows of fire!
            With maëlstrom-like swirl,
            Their surges they hurl
              Over roof--over spire,
              Mad--masterless--higher,--
            Till with rumble--crack--crash,
            Down boom with a flash,
        Whole columns of granite and marble;--see! see!
        Sucked in as a weed on the ocean might be,
                    Or engulfed as a sail
        In the hurricane riot and wreak of the gale!

    II.

        Ha! yonder they rush where the death-dealing stream,
                    Over-pent, waits their gleam,
        To shiver the city with earthquake!--Who, who
        Will adventure, mid-flame, and unfasten the screw,--
        Set the fiend loose, and save us so?--Fireman, you,
        You willing?--Would God you might hazard it!--
              Nay,
        The red tongues are licking the faucets now: Stay!
                --Too late,--'tis too late!
                If ruin comes, wait
        Its coming: To go, is to perish:--Hold! Hold!
                You are young,--I am old,--
        You've a wife, too--and children?--O God! he is gone
        Straight into destruction! The pipes, men! On, on,
        Play the water-stream on him,--full--faster--the whole!
                And now--Christ save his soul!

    III.

               --I stifle--I choke;
        And he,--Heaven grant that he smother in smoke
        Ere the fearful explosion comes. Hark! What's the shout?
               --Is he saved?--Is he out?
        --Did he compass his purpose,--the Hero?--(One name
        To-night we shall write on the records of fame,--
        The perilous deed was so noble!) Why here
                On my cheek is a tear,
        Which not a whole city in ashes could claim!
        --His name, now: Can nobody tell me his name?

M. J. P.

UNPUBLISHED LETTER FROM LORD NELSON TO LADY HAMILTON.

[It has been a matter of congratulation that the destruction by the Boston fire was confined
to buildings and other property representing simply the wealth of the city, and did not extend
to its monuments or its artistic and literary treasures. The exceptions are, in fact, comparatively
small in amount, yet they are such as must excite a general regret. The contents of the studios
in Summer street, and the collection of armor, unique in this country, bequeathed by the late
Colonel Bigelow Lawrence to the Boston Athenaeum, and temporarily deposited at 82 Milk street,
could not perish without awaking other feelings besides that of sympathy with their past or
prospective possessors. A similar loss was that of many of the books and manuscripts amassed
by the historian Prescott, and comprising the collections pertaining to the Histories of the
Conquest of Mexico and Peru and of Philip II. The manuscripts were comprised in some thirty
or forty folio volumes, and consisted of copies or abstracts of documents in the public archives
and libraries of Europe, in the family archives of several Spanish noblemen, and in private
collections like that at Middle Hill. The printed books, of which there were perhaps a thousand,
included many of great value and not a few of extreme rarity. A large mass of private correspondence
was also consumed. We are not yet informed whether the same fate has befallen a small but very
choice collection of autographs, embracing letters written or signed by Ferdinand and Isabella,
Charles V., Pope Clement VII., Prospero Colonna, the Great Captain, and other sovereigns and
eminent personages of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. Very few modern autographs were
included in this collection, the only examples, we believe, being notes written by Queen Victoria,
Prince Albert and the duke of Wellington, and a longer letter addressed by Lord Nelson to Lady
Hamilton. This last, which we are permitted to print from a copy made some time ago, is not
exactly a model of composition, but it is very characteristic, and shows the strength of that
enthrallment which led him, despite his natural kindness of heart, to risk the lives of his
men in order to communicate with the object of his passion.]

SUNDAY NIGHT, Feb. 15, 9 o'clock [1801].

MY DEAR AMIABLE FRIEND: Could you have seen the boat leave the ship, I am sure your heart would
have sunk within you. I would not have given sixpence for the lives of the men: a tremendous
wave broke and missed upsetting the boat by a miracle. O God, how my heart thumped to see them
safe! Then they got safe on shore, and I had given a two-pound note to cheer up the poor fellows
when they landed; but I was so anxious to send a letter for you. I knew it was impossible for
any boat to come off to us since Friday noon, when the boat carried your letters enclosed for
Napean, and she still remains on shore. Only rest assured I always write, and never doubt your
old and dear friend, who never yet deserved it. The gale abates very little, if anything, and
it is truly fortunate that our fleet is not in port, or some accident would most probably happen;
but both St. George and this ship have new cables, which is all we have to trust to; but if
my friend is true I have no fear. I can take all the care which human foresight can, and then
we must trust to Providence, who keeps a lookout for poor Jack. I cannot, my dear friend, afford
to buy the three pictures of the "Battle of the Nile," or I should like very much to have them,
and Mr. Boyden cannot afford to trust me one year. If he could, perhaps I could manage it.
I have desired my brother to examine the four numbers of the tickets I bought with Gibbs. I
hope he has told you. I dare say in the office here is the numbers of the tickets my agents
have bought for the ensuing lottery. I hope we shall be successful. I hope you always kiss
my godchild for me: pray do, and I will repay you ten times when we meet, which I hope will
be very soon. Monday morning. It is a little more moderate, and we are going to send a boat,
but at present none can get to us, and, therefore, I send this letter No. (1) to say we are
in being. I hope in the afternoon to be able to get letters, and, if possible, to answer them.
Kiss my godchild for me, bless it, and Believe me ever yours,

NELSON AND BRONTE.

"WHITE-HAT" DAY.

On one of the last days in September we were the astonished recipients of a singular and mysterious
invitation from a member of the New York Board of Brokers. The note contained words like these:
"Come to the Exchange on Monday, September 30th: white hats are declared confiscated on that day."

It would have puzzled Oedipus or a Philadelphia lawyer to trace the connection between white
hats and stocks, to tell what Hecuba was to them or they to Hecuba, and why they should be
more interfered with by the New York Stock Exchange on the 30th of September than upon any
other day. It is true that during the last summer some slight political bias was supposed to
be hidden beneath that popular headpiece irreverently styled "a Greeley plug," but then stocks
are not politics, nor would any but a punster trace an intimate connection between hats and
polls. A story has gone through the papers, to be sure, about an unfortunate deacon who found
it impossible to collect the coppers of the congregation in a Greeley hat, but then slight
excuses have been made available on charitable occasions before the present election, and we
decline to accept the sentiment of that congregation as unmixed devotion to the Republican
candidates. They did not wish to Grant their money, that was all.

And then, again, unlike the miller of the old conundrum, men generally wear white hats to keep
their heads cool; with which laudable endeavor why should the Stock Exchange wish to interfere?
One never hears of a "corner" in hats. And then, too, was it the bulls or the bears who objected
to them? Bulls, we all know, have an aversion to scarlet drapery, but Darwin, in his studies
of the feeling for color among animals, has omitted any references to a horror of white hats
even among the most accomplished of the anthropoid apes.

Pondering all these problems, and many more, our puzzled trio went to the Stock Exchange on
the last day of September. We were conducted into the safe seclusion of the Visitors' Gallery,
from which coign of vantage we could look down unharmed upon the frantic multitude below. The
room is large and very lofty, its prevailing tint a warm brown, relieved by bright decorations
of the Byzantine order. Across one end runs a small gallery for visitors, without seats, and
some twenty feet above the floor, and opposite the gallery is a raised platform, with a long
table and majestic arm-chairs for the president and other officers of the Board. High on the
wall above these elevated dignitaries glitters in large gold letters the mystic legend, "New
York Stock Exchange." On the left of the platform stands a large blackboard, whereon the fluctuations
in stocks are recorded, and around the sides of the room are displayed various signs bearing
the names of different stocks (like the banners of the knights in royal chapels), beneath which
eager groups collect. At the lower end of the room, under the Visitors' Gallery, are seats
whereon weary brokers may repose after the brunt of battle. In the centre of the upper end
of the vast apartment is a long oval cock-pit--if it may be so called--of two or three degrees,
with a table in the lowest circle. It is so arranged as to give the brokers, standing upon
the graded steps, full opportunity to see and to be seen. On the table, in singular contrast
with the spirit of the place, was a large and beautiful basket of flowers. Anything more painfully
incongruous it would be difficult to imagine. The poor flowers seemed to wear an air of patient
suffering as they wasted their sweetness on that (literally) howling wilderness.

It was just after ten, and the doors had been open but a few moments when we entered the gallery,
already quite full of ladies and gentlemen--generally very young gentlemen, anxious to learn
from the glorious example of their elders. The floor below us was fast being strewn with torn
bits of paper, which have to be swept up several times a day. Eager groups were gathered under
the various signs upon the walls and pillars, apparently playing the Italian game of morra,
to judge by the quick gestures of their restless fingers. Some were scribbling cabalistic signs
on little bits of paper, and almost all were howling like maniacs or wild beasts half starved.
The only place I was ever in at all to be compared with it in volume and variety of noise is
the parrot-room in the London Zoological Gardens. Bedlam and Pandemonium I have not visited--as
yet--and consequently cannot speak from personal experience. But the parrots in that awful
house in Regent's Park are capable of making more hideous noises in a given moment than any
other wild beasts in the world, except brokers. Here the human animal comes out triumphantly
supreme.

To add to the refreshing variety of the din, long, lanky youths in gray sauntered about like
the keepers of the carnivora, and bawled incessantly till they were red in the face. These,
we were told, were the pages, who reported the state of the market and delivered orders and
commissions. To the uninitiated they were a fraud and a delusion, but so was the whole thing.
A crowd of men, walking about or standing in groups, note-book in hand, talking eagerly or
yelling unintelligible nonsense at the top of their voices, and gesticulating with the fury
of madmen, while in and around the crowd strolled those extraordinary pages, calmly shouting
full in the brokers' faces,--this, we were told, was "business!" This is the mysterious occupation
to which our friends, countrymen and lovers devote so large a portion of their time and thoughts.
At this strange diversion millions of dollars change hands in a few hours, and bulls and bears
in this little nest agree to make things generally uncomfortable and uncertain for the outside
world.

But where were the white hats, and what of their daring wearers? As the crowd thickened, they
began to shine out upon the general blackness in obvious distinction. At first, the howling
multitude, eager for filthy lucre, took no particular notice of them beyond an occasional hurried
poke or pat, but this delusive mildness did not long continue. After the first fifteen or twenty
minutes, during which the favorite stocks had been danced up and down a few times, like so
many crying babies, the appetite of the hundred-headed hydra abated a little, and the general
attention to business relaxed. Suddenly--no one knew whence or wherefore--up rose a white hat
in the air, high above the heads of the people, and a bareheaded individual was seen struggling
wildly in the arms of the mob, who set up ironical cheers at his unavailing efforts to regain
his flying headpiece. It rose and fell faster and farther than any fancy stock of them all,
now soaring to the vaulted roof, now being kicked along the dusty floor.

    Press where ye see my white hat shine amidst the ranks of war,

seemed to be the sentiment of the occasion, as the unruly mob swayed and struggled about the
dilapidated victim of their sport. In one corner stood a quiet, dignified gentleman, talking
sedately to a little knot of friends. He wore a tall white "stove-pipe" of the most obnoxious
kind. In a twinkling it was seized and sent flying toward the roof with its softer predecessor.
Its owner gave one glance over his shoulder, and "smiled a sickly smile," while it was very
evident that

    The subsequent proceedings interested him no more.

The fun grew fast and furious, the air was literally darkened with flying hats of every shape
and size, but all white. The stout tall beavers were converted into footballs till their crowns
were kicked out and their brims torn off, when they were seized upon as instruments for further
torture. Some innocent member of the large fraternity, now, to use a nautical phrase, scudding
under bare polls, was pounced upon, and over his unfortunate head the crownless hat was drawn
till the ragged remnant of its brim rested upon his shoulders. One poor creature was thus bonneted
with at least three tiers of hats, and was last seen on the edge of the cockpit struggling
with imminent suffocation.

At the height of the howling, scuffling, kicking and fighting a short diversion was effected.
A tall and portly broker appeared upon the scene in an entire suit of new broadcloth. It was
unmistakably new, its brilliancy quite undimmed. Instantly a rush was made for him by the fickle
crowd. They swept him, as by some mighty wave, into the centre of the room: they turned him
round and round like a pivoted statue, and examined him and patted him approvingly on every
side. Then they made a large ring round him and gave him three cheers. Not content with this,
with one sudden impulse they rushed at him again, and tried to lift him upon the table, that
they might see him better. But this the portly broker resisted: he fought like a good fellow,
and the crowd, tired of struggling with a man of so much weight, gave one final cheer and went
back to the chase of the white hats.

We stayed about half an hour to watch these elegant and refined diversions: at the end of that
time our patience and the white hats were giving out together. The din was deafening and the
dust was rapidly rising. The floor was strewn with scraps of papers and the mangled remains
of felt and beaver. Brimless hats and hatless brims, linings, bands, rent and tattered crowns,
and ragged fragments of the fray, were all over the place. A writhing victim in gray, masked
by a crownless hat, was struggling upon the table to the evident danger of those unhappy flowers;
the president was calling across the tumult in stentorian tones; but the tumult refused to
fall, and the imperturbable pages were bawling upon the skirts of the crowd with stolid pertinacity.
The noise was terrific, the confusion indescribable.

We are often told that women are unfitted for business pursuits. If this was business, I should
say decidedly they were. My acquaintance with women has been large and varied, but I have yet
to see the woman whom I consider qualified to be a member of the New York Board of Brokers.
I have been present at many gatherings composed entirely of women, from the "Woman's Parliament"
to country sewing-societies, but never, even in that much-abused body, the New York Sorosis,
have I seen a crowd of women, however excited, however frolicsome, however full of fun, capable
of playing football with each other's bonnets even upon April Fools' Day. I am convinced that
not even Miss Anthony or Mrs. Stanton would have hesitated to admit, had she been present on
the auspicious occasion above recorded, that there are limits even to woman's sphere. Let her
preach and practice, and sail ships, and make horse-shoes, and command armies, if she will,
let her vote for all sorts of disreputable characters to be set over her, if she choose, but
let her recognize the fact that between her and the gentle amenities of the New York Stock
Exchange there is a great gulf fixed, which only the superior being man, with his lordly intellect,
his keen morality and his exquisite and unvarying courtesy, can bridge over.

K.H.

MR. SOTHERN AS GARRICK.

One hundred and thirty-five years ago two young men came up to London to try their fortune:
half riding, half walking, the young fellows made their journey. One was thick-set, heavy and
uncouth, and years afterward became known to men and fame as Samuel Johnson: the other was
bright, slender, active, and was called David Garrick. Some ten years later, just before the
battle of Culloden, a Dutch vessel, having crossed the Channel, landed at Harwich. There was
on board an apparent page, in reality a young Viennese girl disguised in male attire, who journeyed
up to London too, where she soon made her appearance as a dancer at the Hay-market Theatre:
there she achieved great success, and became talked about as "La Violette." She was under the
patronage of the earl and countess of Burlington, and finally became Mrs. Garrick. It is said
that she was the daughter of a respectable citizen of Vienna--that she had been engaged to
dance at the palace with the children of the empress Maria Teresa, but that, her charms proving
too attractive to the emperor, the empress had packed her off to London with letters of recommendation
to persons of quality there. It seems more probable, however, that she was am actress at Vienna,
and simply crossed the sea to try her fortune in England. Becoming fascinated with Garrick's
acting, she married him after refusing several more brilliant offers, and in spite of the opposition
of her kind patroness, Lady Burlington, who wished her to marry so as to secure higher social
position. This match gave rise to much romantic gossip. It was said that a wealthy young lady
had fallen in love with the great actor one night in Romeo--that he had been induced by her
father to come to the house and break the charm by feigning intoxication: some versions had
it that he came disguised as a physician. A popular German comedy was written upon it, and
still later Mr. Robertson dramatized it for the English stage, and produced a play in which
we have lately had an opportunity of witnessing the fine acting of Mr. Sothern. Garrick was
certainly fortunate among actors: he not only achieved high professional fame, but he accumulated
a large private fortune and lived a happy domestic life in a splendid home filled with choice
works of art. The traveler abroad who is favored with an invitation to the Garrick Club, may
there see the picture of the great actor "in his habit as he lived," looking down nightly on
a collection of the most renowned wits and authors of the metropolis; and to crown all, when
Mr. Sothern acts--were it not for his moustache--we might suppose we saw the man himself alive
before us.

Concerning Mr. Sothern's acting, it affords a fine example of that quality--so very difficult
of attainment, it would seem--perfect repose; and by repose we do not mean torpidity or sluggishness
or inattention, as opposed to clamorous ranting, but we mean the complete subordination of
subordinate parts; so that, if we may use the illustration, the gaudiness of the frame is not
allowed to over-power and destroy the effect of the picture. Everything is clear, distinct
and well marked: the forcible passages come with double effect in contrast with preceding serenity.
The actor's manner is not confined behind the footlights: it diffuses itself, as it were, among
his audience until it seems as if they too were acting with him. This arises from the perfection
of the picture he presents, and that perfection is the result of careful avoidance of everything
that is unnatural. There is no unnecessary exertion put forth, no palpable straining after
effect: he strives to hold the mirror up to Nature, not Art, and in Nature there is much repose
between the tempests. Old players say that the most difficult thing to teach a tyro is to stand
still, and some actors never learn it.

Careful attention to costume is another trait exhibited by Mr. Sothern. He might easily make
his first appearance as David Garrick in the wealthy merchant's house in ordinary walking-dress,
which could be readily retained when he returns to the dinner-party to which he causes himself
to be invited. Instead of that, he appears in the full riding-dress of the period--boots, spurs,
whip, overcoat and all. This is rapidly changed in time for the dinner-scene for a full-dress
suit, complete in every point--powdered hair, white silk stockings, and a little brette, or
walking rapier, peeping out from under the coat skirt, not slung in a belt as heavier swords,
but supported by light steel chains fastened to a chatelaine, which slips behind the waistband
and can be taken off in a moment. In the last scene, where he goes out to fight the duel, his
dress is changed again, and dark silk stockings are donned as more appropriate.

The last point we shall mention here about Mr. Sothern is his scrupulous attention to the minor
business of the stage: when he is not speaking himself, his looks act. It is said of Macready
that he began to be Cardinal Richelieu at three o'clock in the afternoon, and that it was dangerous
to speak to him after that time. When Mr. Sothern plays Lord Dundreary, if he is addressed
on any subject during the progress of the play, he answers in his Dundreary drawl, so as not
to lose his personality for a minute. The letter from his brother "Tham" he has written out
and reads; not that he does not know every word by heart, for he must have read it a hundred
times, but because he wants to turn over at the proper place. We all know what he has made
of that part. A play in which there is absolutely nothing of a plot, which would fall dead
from the hands of an inferior actor, becomes with Mr. Sothern as popular as Rip van Winkle
is with Jefferson to play the sleepy hero. It is to be observed that the three essentials for
good acting just mentioned--repose of manner, strict attention to dress, and strict attention
to minor details of stage-business--may be acquired by any actor of average intellect who will
devote proper time and study to the task: they are not, like a fine figure, a handsome face
or a sonorous voice, adventitious gifts of Fortune which may be bestowed on one mortal and
denied to another. Mr. Sothern owes his success, evidently, to long and careful preparation
of his parts. In David Garrick he leaves but two points at which criticism can carp: his pathos
somehow lacks sufficient tenderness, his love-making seems too devoid of passion. When young
Garrick won the heart of La Violette, he put more fire into his speech and manner than Mr.
Sothern exhibits at the close of the last act. He is represented as always loving Ida Ingot,
but at first conceals and suppresses his love: when the avowal comes at last, it should be
like the bursting forth of a volcano, hot, fiery and irresistible.

M. M.

NOTES.

Sir Richard Wallace evidently aims to make himself, in a small way, the Peabody of Paris. A
cynic might maintain that his gifts were a trifle sensational, and shaped with a view to procure
the greatest amount of notoriety at the price; but that they are frequent, and that they show
a hearty love for Paris on the Englishman's part, none can deny. It was Sir Richard who not
long ago gave about five thousand dollars to the use of the Paris poor; it was he who, in the
late hunting-season, is said to have proposed to supply the city hospitals with fresh game--whether
of his own shooting or of that of his compatriots does not appear; it is he, in fine, who has
furnished to Paris eighty street-fountains, costing in the factory six hundred and seventy-five
francs each, or a total of fifty-four thousand francs (say ten thousand eight hundred dollars),
the expense of setting them up being undertaken by the city. These drinking-jets are in the
main like those so familiar in American cities, and are provided, of course, with tin cups
attached by iron chains--"à la mode Anglaise" add the French papers in an explanatory way.
Now, the extraordinary fact concerning these fountains is, that no sooner had the first installment
of nine been put up than all the tin cups, or "goblets," as the Parisians call them, were stolen.
They were renewed, and again disappeared in a trice. In short, within fifteen days no less
than forty-seven of these goblets were made way with, despite their strong fastenings--that
is, an average of over five cups to each fountain. What the sum-total of plunder has been since
the first fortnight, or whether the fountains are still as useless as spiked cannon or tongueless
bells, we have yet to learn.

Now comes a contrast. The countrymen of Sir Richard claim that in London from time immemorial
not a single cup was ever stolen from the public fountains. So tempting a theme for generalization
could not be resisted by the Paris newspaper philosophers, who have deduced from this theft
of the cups a broad distinction between the British loafer and the French loafer, declaring
that the former "respects any collective property which he partly shares," while the latter
does not even draw this distinction, but grabs whatever he can lay his hands on. "The luck
of the Wallace fountains," cries one moralizer, "shows how hard it is to reform the Paris gamin
so long as the law contents itself with its present measures. If the state does not speedily
educate children found straying in the street, it is all up with the present generation." Thereupon
follows a disquisition on the part which Paris children played in the Commune. "Now, the child,"
adds our newspaper Wordsworth, "is the man viewed through the big end of the opera-glass;"
and he points his moral, therefore, with the need of compulsory education. "One of the first
duties incumbent on the Chamber at the next session will be the solution of this question.
Let it take as a perpetual goad the fate of the Wallace goblets. You begin by stealing a cup
of tin--you end by firing the Tuileries or plundering the Hôtel Thiers." There is a droll mingling
of Isaac Watts and Victor Hugo in this dénoûment, and despite its practical good sense one
is amused at the evolution of a grave discourse from so trivial a text as the Wallace drinking-cups.

       *       *       *       *       *

To people of a statistical rather than a sentimental turn, the mathematics of marriage in different
countries may prove an attractive theme of meditation. It is found that young men from fifteen
to twenty years of age marry young women averaging two or three years older than themselves,
but if they delay marriage until they are twenty to twenty-five years old, their spouses average
a year younger than themselves; and thenceforward this difference steadily increases, till
in extreme old age on the bridegroom's part it is apt to be enormous. The inclination of octogenarians
to wed misses in their teens is an every-day occurrence, but it is amusing to find in the love-matches
of boys that the statistics bear out the satires of Thackeray and Balzac. Again, the husbands
of young women aged twenty and under average a little above twenty-five years, and the inequality
of age diminishes thenceforward, till for women who have reached thirty the respective ages
are equal: after thirty-five years, women, like men, marry those younger than themselves, the
disproportion increasing with age, till at fifty-five it averages nine years.

The greatest number of marriages for men take place between the ages of twenty and twenty-five
in England, between twenty five and thirty in France, and between twenty-five and thirty-five
in Italy and Belgium. Finally, in Hungary the number of individuals who marry is seventy-two
in a thousand each year; in England it is 64; in Denmark, 59; in France, 57, the city of Paris
showing 53; in the Netherlands, 52; in Belgium, 43; in Norway, 36. Widowers indulge in second
marriages three or four times as often as widows. For example, in England (land of Mrs. Bardell)
there are 66 marriages of widowers against 21 of widows; in Belgium there are 48 to 16; in
France, 40 to 12. Old Mr. Weller's paternal advice, to "beware of the widows," ought surely
to be supplemented by a maxim to beware of widowers.

Science, which ruthlessly destroys so much poetry by its mattock and spade, its scales, foot-rules
and gauges, must now, we should judge, take grave exception to the preceding bit of poesy and
to the thousand repetitions of its sentiment by the bards of all ages. By means of a thermometer
lately constructed to register with exactitude the degree of heat in the human body, it is
found, after numerous experiments under varying circumstances, that the instrument marks 37.08°
of heat on an average for persons between twenty-one and thirty years of age, while it marks
37.46° for people aged eighty. In face of this fact what becomes of the "fervors of youth"
and the "chills of age"? The highest average temperatures in the human body, as indicated by
this gauge, are those which exist from birth to puberty--that is to say, 37.55° and 37.63°.
From the latter epoch the heat gradually lowers, to rise again with the first approach of old
age. Thus childhood shows the highest temperature, old age the next, and middle life the lowest.
We may add that the greatest variations in the temperature of the body between health and sickness
are only a few tenths of a degree, according to this measurement; for, the normal condition
being 37.2° or 37.3°, an increase to 38° would mark a burning fever, and a decrease to 36°
would note the icy approach of death. Hereafter, though we may graciously excuse to poetic
license the assertion that

    Crabbed Age and Youth
    Cannot live together,

we must yet sternly protest that the reason assigned--namely, that "youth is hot and age is
cold"--is contradicted by the facts of science.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

The Life of Charles Dickens. By John Forster. Vol. II. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co.

Beginning with Dickens's return from America in 1842, this volume covers a period of less than
ten years, the most productive, and apparently the happiest, of his life. It brings out in
even stronger relief than the preceding volume his strong individuality, a trait which, whether
it attracts or repels--and on most persons we think it produces alternately each of these effects--is
full of interest, worthy of study and fruitful of suggestions. Its superabundant energy seemed
to create demands in order that it might expend itself in satisfying them. Its persistence
was toughened by failure as much as by success. Its vivacity, verging upon boisterousness,
was incapable of being chilled. Its strenuousness knew no lassitude, and needed no repose.
In play as in work, in physical exercise as in mental labor, in all his projects, purposes
and performances, Dickens seems to have been in a perpetual state of tension that allowed of
no reaction. His was a mind not morbidly self-conscious, but ever aglow with the consciousness
of power and the ardor of its achievement, in-sensible of waste and undisturbed by critical
introspection.

The excitement into which he was thrown by the composition of his books exceeds anything of
the kind recorded in literary history, and stands in strong contrast with the self-contained
tranquillity with which Scott performed an equal or greater amount of labor. Yet it does not,
like similar ebullitions in other men, suggest any notion of weakness or of a talent strained
beyond its capacity. It was coupled with an enormous facility of execution and the ability
to pass with undiminished freshness from one field of action to another. It sprang from the
intensity with which every idea was conceived, and which belonged equally to his smallest with
his greatest undertakings. After this it is amusing to read that the book "was not one of his
greatest successes, and it raised him up some objectors;" but the reading was the germ of those
which afterward brought him into such close relations with his public. The mental distress
quite horrible." Here we have, perhaps, a clear case of the effects of overwork. But in general
the details of his plots, the names of the characters, above all, the titles of the stories,
were evolved with an amount of thought and discussion that might have sufficed for the plan
and the preparations for a battle. "Martin Chuzzlewit" is not a name suggestive of long and
serious deliberation: one might rather suppose that it had turned up accidentally and been
accepted simply as being as good as another. Yet it was not adopted till after many others
had been discussed and rejected. "Martin was the prefix to all, but the surname varied from
its first form of Sweezleden, Sweezleback and Sweeztewag, to those of Chuzzletoe, Chuzzleboy,
Chubblewig and Chuzzlewig." David Copperfield was preceded by a still longer list of abortions,
and Household Words, as a mere title, was the result of a parturition far exceeding in length
and severity any throes of travail known to natural history.

All this was unaccompanied by any of the doubts and misgivings, the fits of depression and
intervals of lassitude, which are the ordinary tortures of authorship. Nor had it any connection
with the weaknesses of the craft, its small vanities and jealousies. Hence, too, no half-formed
and then abandoned projects were among the stepping-stones of his career. A plan or an idea,
once conceived, was certain to be shaped, developed and matured; and whatever the result, it
left up disheartening effect, no feeling of distrust, to cripple a subsequent undertaking.

Nor was Dickens so absorbed in his work as to leave it reluctantly, or to find no fullness
of satisfaction in occupations or enjoyments of a different kind. On the contrary, no man ever
threw himself so heartily and entirely into the business of the hour, or more eagerly sought
diversion and change. Dinners, private and public, excursions in chosen companionship, amateur
theatricals, schemes of charity or benevolence, occupied a large portion of his time, and were
entered into with an ardor which never flagged or needed to be stimulated. His correspondence--an
unfailing barometer to indicate the state of the mental atmosphere--is always full of life,
overflowing, for the most part, with animal spirits, often vivid in description both of places
and people, turning discomforts and embarrassments into subjects of lively narrative or indignant
protest. The letters from Genoa and Lausanne are especially copious and entertaining, and form,
we think, the most interesting portion of the book. The later chapters, giving the final year
of his residence in Devonshire Terrace, are less satisfactory. We would fain have had a picture
of that circle of which Dickens was one of the most prominent figures; but though his own personality
is revealed in the fullest light, the group in the background is left indistinct, most of its
members being barely visible, and none of them adequately portrayed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Émaux et Camées. Par Théophile Gautier. Nombre définitif. Paris: Charpentier; New York: F.W.
Christern.

Gautier was polishing and adding to his literary jewelry almost to the day of his death, and
the final edition which he published among the last of his works about doubles the number of
poems first issued. These verses are like nothing we have in English. Their imagery is strongly
sophisticated, tortured, brought from vast distances, and then chilled into form. Yet they
are the most sincere utterances of a soul fed perpetually among cabinets and picture-galleries,
to whom their compact method of utterance is, so to speak, secondarily natural. That they are
precious and beauteous no one can deny. How sparkling are the successive descriptions of women--blonde,
brune, Spanish, contralto-voiced, coquettish, etc.--whom the poet, like some capricious artist,
invites into his atelier, drapes hastily with old Moorish or Venetian or diaphanous costumes,
and then reflects in a diminishing mirror, changing the model into a fine statuette of ivory
and enamel! More virile and thoughtful images are intermixed: such are the figures of the old
Invalides seen at the Column Vendôme in a December fog, and for whom he pleads: "Mock not those
men whom the street urchin follows, laughing: they were the Day of which we are the twilight--maybe
the night!" Not less fresh are the two "Homesick Obelisks"--that in the Place de la Concorde,
wearying its stony heart out for Egypt, and that at Luxor, equally tired, and longing to be
planted at Paris, among a living crowd. But Gautier is a colorist, an artist with words, and
he is at his best when he works without much outline, celebrating draperies, bouquets and laces,
to all of which he can give a meaning quite other than the milliner's, as where he asserts
that the plaits of a rose-colored dress are "the lips of my unappeased desires," or describes
March as a barber, powdering the wigs of the blossoming almond trees, and a valet, lacing up
the rosebuds in their corsets of green velvet. Whatever he touches he leaves artificial, "enameled,"
yet charming. The verses added in the present edition are more pensive, even sombre. A life
given to art wholly, without patriotism or religion or philosophy, does not prepare the greenest
old age. There is a long and beautiful poem, "Le Château du Souvenir," which he fills, not
exactly with Charles Lamb's "old familiar faces," but with portraits of his mistresses and
of his old self. There is the "Last Vow"--to a woman he has pursued "for eighteen years," and
whom he still accosts, though "the white graveyard lilacs have blossomed about my temples,
and I shall soon have them tufting and shading all my forehead." There is also the accent of
his irresponsible courtiership, the facile and unashamed flattery he paid to such a woman as
Princess Mathilde. This personage was, or is, an artist; and we may not be mistaken in believing
that we have seen, cast aside in the vast storerooms of Haseltine's galleries in this city--an
example and gnomon of disenchanted glory--her water-color sketch called the "Fellah Woman,"
and the very one of which Gautier sang: "Caprice of a fantastic brush and of an imperial leisure!...
Those eyes, a whole poem of languor and pleasure, resolve the riddle and say, 'Be thou Love--I
am Beauty.'"

The late poems, however, as well as the old, are filled with felicities. They contain many
a lesson of the word-master, who, though he did not attain the Academy, left the French language
gold, which he found marble. The ornaments, exquisite licenses, foreign graces and wide researches
which Gautier conferred upon his mother-tongue have enriched it for future time, and they are
best seen in this volume.

       *       *       *       *       *

Concord Days. By A. Bronson Alcott. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

In these loose leaves we have the St. Martin's summer of a life. Mr. Alcott, from his quiet
home in Concord, and from the edifice of his seventy-three years, picks out those mental growths
and moral treasures which have kept their color through all the changes of the seasons. They
bear the mark of selection, of choice, from out a vast abundance of material: to us readers
the scissors have probably been a kinder implement than the pen. Be that as it may, the selections
given are all worth saving, and the fragmentary resurrection is just about as much as our age
has time to attend to of the growths that were formed when New England thought was young. That
was the day when Mrs. Hominy fastened the cameo to her frontal bone and went to the sermon
of Dr. Channing, when young Hawthorne chopped straw for the odious oxen at Brook Farm, and
when a budding Booddha, called by his neighbors Thoreau, left mankind and proceeded to introvert
himself by the borders of Walden Pond. Mr. Alcott's little diary gives us some of the best
skimmings of that time of yeast. There is Emerson-worship, Channing-worship, Margaret Fuller-worship
and the pale cast of The Dial. There is, besides, in another stratum that runs through the
collection, a vein of very welcome investigation amongst old authors--Plutarch's charming letter
of consolation to his wife on the death of their child; Crashaw's "Verses on a Prayer-Book;"
Evelyn's letter on the origin of his Sylva; and many a jewel five-words-long filched from the
authors whom modern taste votes slow and insupportable. We mention these to give some idea
of the spirit in which this work of marquetry is executed--a work too fragmentary and incoherent
to be easily describable except by its specimens. And while culling fragments, we cannot forbear
mentioning the curious records of Mr. Alcott's "Conversations," held now with Frederika Bremer,
now with a band of large-browed Concord children, held forty years ago, and turning perpetually
upon the deeper questions of metaphysics and religion; we will even indulge ourselves with
a short extract from one of the "Conversations with Children," reported verbatim by an apparently
concealed auditress, and eliciting many a cunning bit of infantine wisdom, besides the following
finer rhapsody, which Mr. Alcott succeeded in charming out of the lips of a boy six years of age:

"Mr. Alcott! you know Mrs. Barbauld says in her hymns, everything is prayer; every action is
prayer; all nature prays; the bird prays in singing; the tree prays in growing; men pray--men
can pray more; we feel; we have more, more than Nature; we can know, and do right: Conscience
prays; all our powers pray; action prays. Once we said, here, that there was a Christ in the
bottom of our spirits, when we try to be good. Then we pray in Christ; and that is the whole!"

To think that the lips of this ingenuous and golden-mouthed lad may be now pouring out patriotism
in Congress is rather sad; but the author's own career tells us that there are some of the
Chrysostoms of 1830 who have had the courage to keep quiet, and sweeten their own lives for
family use. Mr. Alcott betrays in every line the kindest, sanest and humanest spirit; and we
wish he could feel how grateful some of us are for his example of a thinker who can keep quiet,
and a writer who can show the power of reticence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thirty Years in the Harem; or, The Autobiography of Melek-Hanum, wife of H.H. Kibrizli-Mehemet-Pasha.
New York: Harper & Brothers.

We have had many revelations from the interior, but nothing quite like this. Most histories
are valuable in proportion to the truthfulness of the narrator, but Mrs. Melek's story owes
a large show of its interest to her obvious tension of the long-bow. It is, in fact, a self-revelation--the
vain and audacious betrayal by an Oriental woman of the narrowness, the shallowness, the dishonesty
which ages of false education have fastened upon her race. The lady in question is--and evidently
knows herself to be--an exception among her countrywomen for ability and acumen: an extreme
self-satisfaction and vanity are revealed in the recital of her most disreputable tricks. She
passes for a white blackbird, a woman of intellect caught in the harem; and it needs but little
ingenuity to guess the torment she must have been to her protectors--first to the excellent
Dr. Millingen, with whom she formed a love-match, and whom she abuses--and then to her second
husband, Kibrizli, ambassador in 1848 to the court of England, upon whom she attempted to palm
off an heir by the ruse practiced by our own revered Mrs. Cunningham. Whatever the clever Melek
does, or whatever treatment she receives, it is always she who is in the right, and her eternal
"enemies" who are unjust, barbarous and stingy. The ferocious blackmailing of natives in the
Holy Land which she practiced when her husband represented the sultan there, is represented
as cleverness; but her divorce after the infamous false accouchement is a piece of persecution.
The marriage and adventures of her daughter form a tangled romance through which we hear of
a great deal more oppression and cruelty; and the escape into Europe, where the old enchantress
appears to be now prowling in poverty and degradation, concludes the curious story. The narrative
bears marks of having passed through a French translation and then a British version. To disentangle
the thread of actuality that probably runs through it would be too troublesome and futile;
but the truths that the wily Melek cannot help telling--the facts of the harem and of Eastern
life that involuntarily sprinkle it all like a flavoring of strange spices--these are what
give it the odd dash of interest which keeps it in our hands long after we had meant to toss
it aside. Here is a "screaming sister" of the East--an odalisque who was not going to be oppressed
and degraded like the other women, but who meant to be capable and cultivated and smart, just
like the Christian ladies; and this bundle of lies and crimes and hates is what she arrives at.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hints on Dress; or, What to Wear, When to Wear it, and How to Buy it. By Ethel C. Gale, (Putnam's
Handy-Book Series.) New York: G.P. Putnam & Sons.

This little book will certainly elicit commendation from all who consider the subject of dress
within the pale of aesthetic treatment; and, what is still more fortunate, it will probably
serve to elevate, in some degree, the standard of taste among that large class of persons for
whom handy volumes are chiefly compiled. Its statements and deductions are accurate, sensible,
comprehensive and practical, and the style in which they are presented is simple and attractive.
The color, form and suitability of dress, as well as the best methods of economy in its purchase
and manufacture, are intelligently treated. We have only to regret the want of a chapter devoted
to the hygiene of dress, which is a subject deserving the earnest attention of every friend
of physical development. Ten or a dozen pages given to this topic might have done a service
to hundreds who are willing enough to gather knowledge in passing, but who are repelled from
the separate consideration of any subject which seems to call for the exercise of serious thought.
Folio, folded. Philadelphia: T. Elwood Zell.

A clear, well-executed polychrome map, evidently copied from the one recently published in
England, if not actually printed there. It exhibits not only the route of Dr. Livingstone during
the period included between the years 1866 and 1872, and that taken by Mr. Stanley in his recent
search, but also the course which the former proposes to follow in the prosecution of his discoveries.
The boundaries of lakes and the courses of rivers, where definitely known, are indicated by
unbroken lines--where still supposititious, by dotted ones. The map, which is printed on heavy
paper, is thirteen inches wide by eighteen inches long, and being folded within a stiff duodecimo
cover, can be easily preserved and readily consulted.

Books Received.

Papers relating to the Transit of Venus in 1874. Prepared under the Direction of the Commissioners
authorized by Congress. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing-office.

Reports on Observations of Encke's Comet during its Return in 1871. By Asaph Hall and Wm. Harkness.
Washington, D.C.: Government Printing-Office.

Harry Delaware; or, An American in Germany. By Mathilde Estvan. New York: G.P. Putnam & Sons.

California for Health, Pleasure and Residence. By Charles Nordhoff. New York: Harper & Brothers.

The Lives of General U.S. Grant and Henry Wilson. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

The Romance of American History. By M. Schele de Vere. New York: G.P. Putnam & Sons.

Book of Ballads, Tales and Stories. By Benjamin G. Herre. Lancaster, Pa.: Wylie & Griest.

The Poet at the Breakfast Table. By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.

The Lawrence Speaker. By Philip Lawrence. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Memoir of a Huguenot Family. By Ann Maury. New York: G.P. Putnam & Sons.

Within the Maze. By Mrs. Henry Wood. Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Sermons. By Rev. C.D.N. Campbell, D.D. New York: Hurd & Houghton.

Outlines of History. By Ed. A. Freeman, D.C.L. New York: Holt & Williams.

