 You may now inquire, How critical is this "color
test"? To answer this I fear I shall trench upon forbidden grounds, but I call to my help the
words of one of our best American physicists, and I quote from a letter in which he says by
combined calculation and experiment I have found the limiting error for white light to be 1/50000000
of an inch, and for Na or sodium light about fifty times greater, or less than 1/800000 of
an inch. Dr. Alfred Mayer estimated and demonstrated by actual experiment that the smallest
black spot on a white ground visible to the naked eye is about 1/800 of an inch at the distance
of normal vision, namely, 10 inches, and that a line, which of course has the element of extension,
1/5000 of an inch in thickness could be seen. In our delicate "color test" we may decrease
the diameter of our black spot a thousand times and still its perception is possible by the
aid of our monochromatic light, and we may diminish our line ten thousand times, yet find it
just perceivable on the border land of our test by white light. Do not presume I am so foolish
as to even think that the human hand, directed by the human brain, can ever work the material
at his command to such a high standard of exactness. No; from the very nature of the material
we have to work with, we are forbidden even to hope for such an achievement; and could it be
possible that, through some stroke of good fortune, we could attain this high ideal, it would
be but for a moment, as from the very nature of our environment it would be but an ignis fatuus.
There is, however, to the earnest mind a delight in having a high model of excellence, for
as our model is so will our work approximate; and although we may go on approximating our ideal
forever, we can never hope to reach that which has been set for us by the great Master Workman.

       *       *       *       *       *

[JOURNAL OF GAS LIGHTING.]

PHOTOMETRICAL STANDARDS.

In carrying out a series of photometrical experiments lately, I found that it was a matter
of considerable difficulty to keep the flames of the standard candles always at their proper
distance from the light to be measured, because the wick was continually changing its position
(of course carrying the flame with it), and thus practically lengthening or shortening the
scale of the photometer, according as the flame was carried nearer to or farther from the light
at the other end of the scale. In order, therefore, to obtain a correct idea of the extent
to which this variation of the position of the wick might influence the readings of the photometer
scale, I took a continuous number of photographs of the flame of a candle while it was burning
in a room quite free from draught; no other person being in it during the experiment except
a photographer, who placed sensitive dry plates in a firmly fixed camera, and changed them
after an exposure of 30 seconds. In doing this he was careful to keep close to the camera,
and disturb the air of the room as little as possible. In front of the candle a plumb-line
was suspended, and remained immovable over its center during the whole operation. The candle
was allowed to get itself into a normal state of burning, and then the wick was aligned, as
shown in the photographs Nos. 1 and 2, after which it was left to itself.

With these photographs (represented in the cuts) I beg to hand you full-sized drawings of the
scales of a 100 inch Evans and a 60 inch Letheby photometer, in order to give your readers
an opportunity of estimating for themselves the effect which such variations from the true
distance between the standard light and that to be measured, as shown in this series of photographs,
must exercise on photometrical observations made by the aid of either of the instruments named.

W. SUGG.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLEACHING OR DYEING-YARNS AND GOODS IN VACUO.

Many attempts have been made to facilitate the penetration of textile fabrics by the dyeing
and bleaching solutions, with which they require to be treated, by carrying out the treatment
in vacuo, i.e., in such apparatus as shall allow of the air being withdrawn. The apparatus
shown in the annexed engraving--Austrian Pat. Jan. 15, 1884--although not essentially different
from those already in use, embodies, the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry says,
some important improvements in detail. It consists of a drum A, the sides of which are constructed
of stout netting, carried on a vertical axis working through a stuffing-box, which is fitted
in the bottom of the outer or containing vessel or keir B. The air can be exhausted from B
by means of an air pump. A contains a central division P, also constructed of netting, into
which is inserted the extremity of the tube R, after being twice bent at a right angle. P is
also in direct connection with the efflux tube E, E and R serving to convey the dye or bleach
solutions to and from the reservoir C. The combination of the rotary motion communicated to
A, which contains the goods to be dyed or bleached, with the very thorough penetration and
circulation of the liquids effected by means of the vacuum established in B, is found to be
eminently favorable to the rapidity and evenness of the dye or bleach.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE MOULDING OF PORCELAIN.

By CHAS. LAUTH.

The operation of moulding presents numerous advantages over other methods of shaping porcelain,
for by this process we avoid irregularities of form, twisting, and visible seams, and can manufacture
thin pieces, as well as pieces of large dimensions, of a purity of form that it is impossible
to obtain otherwise.

The method of moulding small objects has been described with sufficient detail in technical
works, but such is not the case with regard to large ones, and for this reason it will be of
interest to quote some practical observations from a note that has been sent me by Mr. Constantine
Renard, who, for several years, has had the superintendence of the moulding rooms of the Sevres
works.

The process of moulding consists in pouring porcelain paste, thinned with water, into very
dry plaster moulds. This mixture gradually hardens against the porous sides with which it is
in contact, and, when the thickness of the hardened layer is judged sufficient, the mould is
emptied by inverting it. The excess of the liquid paste is thus eliminated, while the thicker
parts remain adherent to the plaster. Shortly afterward, the absorption of the water continuing,
the paste so shrinks in drying as to allow the object to detach itself from the mould. As may
be seen, nothing is simpler when it concerns pieces of small dimensions; but the same is not
the case when we have to mould a large one. In this case we cannot get rid of the liquid paste
by turning the mould upside down, because of the latter's size, and, on another hand, it is
necessary to take special precautions against the subsidence of the paste. Recourse is therefore
had to another method. In the first place, an aperture is formed in the lower part of the mould
through which the liquid may flow at the desired moment. Afterward, in order to prevent the
solidified but still slightly soft paste from settling under its own weight at this moment,
it is supported by directing a current of compressed air into the mould, or, through atmospheric
pressure, by forming a vacuum in the metallic jacket in which the mould is inclosed.

The history and description of these processes have been several times given, and I shall therefore
not dwell upon them, but shall at once proceed to make known the new points that Mr. Renard
has communicated to me.

The first point to which it is well to direct the manufacturer's attention is the preparation
of the plaster moulds. When it concerns an object of large dimensions, of a vase a yard in
height, for example, the moulder is obliged to cut the form or core horizontally into three
parts, each of which is moulded separately. To this effect, it is placed upon a core frame
and surrounded with a cylinder of sheet zinc. The workman pours the plaster into the space
between the latter and the core, and, while doing so, must stir the mass very rapidly with
a stick, so that at the moment the plaster sets, it shall be as homogeneous as possible. In
spite of such precautions, it is impossible to prevent the densest parts of the plaster from
depositing first, through the action of gravity. These will naturally precipitate upon the
table or upon the slanting sides of the core, and the mould will therefore present great inequalities
as regards porosity. Since this defect exists in each of the pieces that have been prepared
in succession, it will be seen that when they come to be superposed for the moulding of the
piece, the mould as a whole will be formed of zones of different porosities, which will absorb
water from the paste unequally. Farther along we shall see the inconveniences that result from
this, and the manner of avoiding them.

The mould, when finished, is dried in a stove. Under such circumstances it often happens that
there forms upon the surface of the plaster a hard crust which, although it is of no importance
as regards the outside of the mould, is prejudicial to the interior because it considerably
diminishes its absorbing power. This trouble may be avoided by coating the surfaces that it
is necessary to preserve with clear liquid paste; but Mr. Renard advises that the mould be
closed hermetically, so that the interior shall be kept from contact with warm air. In this
way it is possible to prevent the plaster from hardening, as a result of too quick a desiccation.
I now come to the operation of moulding. In the very first place, it is necessary to examine
whether it is well to adopt the arrangement by pressure of air or by vacuum. The form of the
objects will determine the choice. A very open piece, like a bowl, must be moulded by vacuum,
on account of the difficulty of holding the closing disk in place if it be of very large dimensions.
The same is the case with large vases of wood form. On the contrary, an elongated piece tapering
from above is more easily moulded by pressure of the air, as are also ovoid vessels 16 to 20
inches in height. In any case it must not be forgotten that the operation by vacuum should
be preferred every time the form of the objects is adapted to it, because this process permits
of following and directing the drying, while with pressure it is impossible to see anything
when once the apparatus is closed.

Moulding by Pressure of the Air.--The plaster mould having been put in place upon the mould
board, and the liquid paste having been long and thoroughly stirred in order to make it homogeneous,
and get rid of the air bubbles, we open the cock that puts the paste reservoir in communication
with the lower part of the mould, care having been taken beforehand to pour a few pints of
water into the bottom of the mould. The paste in ascending pushes this water ahead of it, and
this slightly wets the plaster and makes the paste rise regularly. When the mould is entirely
filled, the paste is still allowed to flow until it slightly exceeds the upper level, and,
spreading out over the entire thickness of the plaster, forms a sort of thick flange. The absorption
of the liquid begins almost immediately, and, consequently, the level lowers. A new quantity
of paste is introduced, and we continue thus, in regulating its flow so as to keep the mould
always full. This operation is prolonged until the layer is judged to be sufficiently thick,
this depending upon the dimensions, form, or construction of the vessel. The operation may
take from one to five hours.

The desired thickness having been obtained, it becomes a question of allowing the paste to
descend and at the same time to support the piece by air pressure. The flange spoken of above
is quickly cut, and the paste is made to rise again for the last time, in order to form a new
flange, but one that this time will be extremely thin; then a perforated disk designed for
forming the top joint, and acting as a conduit for the air, is placed upon the mould. This
disk is fastened down with a screw press, and when the apparatus is thus arranged the eduction
cock is opened, and the air pump maneuvered.

If the flange did not exist, the air would enter between the mould and the piece at the first
strokes of the piston, and the piece would be inevitably broken. Its object, then, is to form
a hermetical joint, although it must at the same time present but a slight resistance, since,
as soon as the liquid paste has flowed out, the piece begins to shrink, and it is necessary
that at the first movement downward it shall be able to disengage itself, since it would otherwise
crack.

As soon as the piece begins to detach itself from the mould the air enters the apparatus, and
the pressure gauge connected with the air pump begins to lower. It is then necessary, without
a moment's loss of time, to remove the screw press, the disk, and the upper part of the mould
itself, in order to facilitate as much as possible the contraction of the piece. Finally, an
hour or an hour and a half later, it is necessary to remove the lower part of the mould, this
being done in supporting the entire affair by the middle. The piece and what remains of the
mould are, in reality, suspended in the air. All these preparations are designed to prevent
cracking.

Moulding by Vacuum.--The operation by vacuum follows the same phases as those just described.
It is well, in order to have a very even surface, not to form a vacuum until about three hours
after the paste has been made to ascend. Without such a precaution the imperfections in the
mould will be shown on the surface of the object by undulations that are irremediable.

The first flange or vein must be preserved, and it is cut off at the moment the piece is detached.

Moulding by vacuum, aside from the advantages noted above, permits of giving the pieces a greater
thickness than is obtained in the pressure process. According to Mr. Renard, when it is desired
to exceed one inch at the base of the piece (the maximum thickness usually obtained), the operation
is as follows: The piece is moulded normally, and it is supported by a vacuum; but, at the
moment at which, under ordinary circumstances, it would be detached, the paste is made to ascend
a second time, when the first layer (already thick and dry) acts as a sort of supplementary
mould, and permits of increasing the thickness by about 2/5 of an inch. The piece is held,
as at first, by vacuum, and the paste is introduced again until the desired thickness is obtained.

Whatever be the care taken, accidents are frequent in both processes. They are due, in general,
to the irregular contraction of the pieces, caused by a want of homogeneousness in the plaster
of the moulds. In fact, as the absorption of the water does not proceed regularly over the
entire surface of the piece, zones of dry paste are found in contact with others that are still
soft, and hence the formation of folds, and finally the cracking and breaking of the piece.
The joints of the moulds are also a cause of frequent loss, on account of the marks that they
leave, and that injure the beauty of the form as well as the purity of the profile.

Mr. Renard has devised a remedy for all such inconveniences. He takes unglazed muslin, cuts
it into strips, and, before beginning operations, fixes it with a little liquid paste to the
interior of the mould. This light fabric in no wise prevents the absorption of the water, and
so the operation goes on as usual; but, at the moment of contraction, the piece of porcelain
being, so to speak, supported by the muslin, comes put of the mould more easily and with extreme
regularity. Under such circumstances all trace of the joint disappears, the imperfections in
the mould are unattended with danger, and the largest pieces are moulded with entire safety.
In a word, we have here a very important improvement in the process of moulding. The use of
muslin is to be recommended, not only in the manufacture of vases, but also in the difficult
preparation of large porcelain plates. It is likewise advantageous in the moulding of certain
pieces of sculpture that are not very delicate, and, finally, it is very useful when we have
to do with a damaged mould, which, instead of being repaired with plaster, can be fixed with
well ground wet sand covered with a strip of muslin.

Drying of the Moulded Pieces.--When the moulded pieces become of a proper consistency in the
mould, they are exposed to the air and then taken to the drying room. But, as with plaster,
the surface of the paste dries very quickly, and this inconvenience (which amounts to nothing
in pieces that are to be polished) is very great in pieces that carry ornaments in relief,
since the finishing of these is much more difficult, the hardened paste works badly, and frequently
flakes off. In order to remedy this inconvenience, it suffices to dust the places to be preserved
with powdered dry paste.--Revue Industrielle.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTO-TRICYCLE APPARATUS.

This consists of a portable folding camera, with screw focusing arrangement, swing back, and
an adapter frame placed in the position of the focus screen, allowing the dark slide to be
inserted so as to give the horizontal or vertical position to the dry plate when in the camera.
To the front and base-board a brass swiveled side bar, made collapsible by means of a center
slot, is attached by hinges, and this renders the camera rigid when open or secure when closed.
The base-board is supported on a brass plate within which is inserted a ball-and-socket (or
universal joint in a new form), permitting the camera to be tilted to any necessary angle,
and fixed in such position at will. The whole apparatus is mounted upon a brass telescopic
draw-stand, which, by means of clamps, is attached to the steering handle or other convenient
part of the tricycle, preferably the form made by Messrs. Rudge & Co., of Coventry, represented
in the cut.--Photo. News.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PHOTO PRINTING LIGHT.

A printing frame is placed in the carrier, and exposed to the light of a gas burner kept at
a fixed distance, behind which is a spherical reflector. The same frame may be used for other
purposes.-Photographic News.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW ACTINOMETER.

A selenium actinometer has been described in the Comptes Rendus in a communication from M.
Morize, of Rio de Janeiro. The instrument is used to measure the actinic power of sunlight
when the sun is at various altitudes; but the same principle is applicable to other light sources.
The sensitive part of the apparatus consists of a cylinder formed of 38 disks of copper, isolated
from each other by as many disks of mica. The latter being of smaller diameter than the copper
disks, the annular spaces between the two are filled with selenium, by the simple process of
rubbing a stick of this substance over the edges, and afterward gently warming. The selenium
then presents a grayish appearance, and is ready for use. Connection is made by conductors,
on opposite sides, with the odd and even numbers of the disks, which diminishes the resistance
of the selenium. The cylinder thus formed is insulated by glass supports in the inside of a
vacuum tube, for the purpose of preserving it from the disturbing influence of dark rays. The
whole is placed upon a stand, and shielded from reflected light, but fully exposed to that
which is to be measured for actinic intensity. If now a constant current of electricity is
passed through the apparatus, as indicated by a galvanometer, the variations of the latter
will show the effect produced upon the selenium. A scale must be prepared, with the zero point
at the greatest possible resistance of the selenium, which corresponds with absolute darkness.
The greatest effect of the light would be to annul the resistance of the selenium. Consequently,
the cylinder must be withdrawn from the circuit to represent this effect; and the maximum deviation
of the galvanometer is then to be observed, and marked 100. By dividing the range of the galvanometer
thus obtained into 100 equal parts, the requisite actinometric scale will be established. In
practice, the Clamond battery is used to supply the constant current required.

       *       *       *       *       *

ASTRONOMICAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

During the last few years, or rather decades of years, it has become rather a trite saying
that to advance far in any branch of physical research a fair proficiency in no inconsiderable
number of the sister sciences is an absolute necessity. But if this is true in general, none,
I think, will question the assertion that a proficient in any of the physical sciences must
be fairly conversant with photography as a science, or at least as an art. If we take for example
a science which has of late years made rapid strides both in Europe and America, the science
of astronomy, we shall not have far to go to find convincing proof that a great portion of
the best work that is being done by its votaries is effected by the aid of photography. One
eminent astronomer has quite lately gone so far as to declare that we no longer require observers
of the heavens, but that their place can be better supplied by the gelatine plate of the photographer;
and his words have been echoed by others not less able than himself. "Abolish the observer,
and substitute the sensitive plate," is a sensational form of expressing the revolution in
observational astronomy that is taking place under our eyes; but, although it suggests a vast
amount of truth, it might leave upon the mind an exaggerated impression inimical to the best
interests of science.

The award of the highest distinction in astronomy, the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical
Society, two years in succession, to those who have been most successful in celestial photography
is no doubtful sign of the great value attached to such work. Last year it was Mr. Common who
received the highest testimony of the merit due to his splendid photographs of the nebula of
Orion; and this year Dr. Huggins, who has drawn much attention to celestial photography, by
his successful attempts to picture the solar corona in full daylight, has received a similar
acknowledgment of his labors in photographing the spectra of stars and comets and nebulæ.

An adequate idea of the progress astronomy is now making by aid of photography can only be
formed by a comprehensive view of all that is being at present attempted; but a rapid glance
at some of the work may prepare the way for a more thorough investigation. A few years since,
the astronomers who had advanced their science by aid of photography were few in number, and
their results are soon enumerated. Some good pictures of the solar corona taken during solar
eclipses, a series or two of sun-spot photographs, and a very limited number of successful
attempts made upon the moon, and planets, and star clusters, were all the fruits of their labors.
But now each month we learn of some new and efficient laborer in this field, which gives promise
of so rich a harvest.

Each day the sun is photographed at Greenwich, at South Kensington, in India, and at the Physical
Observatory of Potsdam, and thus a sure record is obtained of all the spots upon its surface,
which may serve for the study of the periodicity of its changes, and for their probable connection
with the important phenomena of terrestrial magnetism and meteorology. In France the splendid
sun-pictures obtained by Dr. Janssen at the Physical Observatory of Meudon have thrown into
the shade all other attempts at a photographic study of the most delicate features of the solar
surface.

Dr. Huggins has shown that it is possible to obtain a daily photographic record of the solar
prominences, and only lately he has secured results that justified a special expedition to
the Alps to photograph the sun's corona, and he has now moved the Admiralty to grant a subsidy
to Dr. Gill, the government astronomer at the Cape, by aid of which Mr. Woods can carry on
the experiments that were so encouraging last summer in Switzerland.

We may, then, reasonably hope to obtain before long a daily picture of the sun and a photographic
record of its prominences, and even of a certain portion of the solar corona; but the precious
moments of each solar eclipse will always be invaluable for picturing those wondrous details
in the corona that are now shown us by photography, and which can be obtained by photography alone.

Again, how very much is to be learnt in solar physics from the marvelous photographs of the
sun's spectrum exhibited last summer by Professor Rowland; photographs that show as many as
one hundred and fifty lines between H and K, and which he is still laboring to improve! The
extension, too, of the visible solar spectrum into the ultra-violet by Corun, Mascart, and
others, adds much to our knowledge of the sun; while the photographs of Abney in the ultrared
increase our information in a direction less expected and certainly less easy of attainment.
Both these extensions we find most ably utilized in the recent discussion of the very interesting
photographs of the spectra of the prominences and of the corona taken during the total eclipse
of May 18, 1882; and the photographic results of this eclipse afford ample proof that we can
not only obtain pictures of the corona by photography that it would be impossible otherwise
to procure, but also that in a few seconds information concerning the nature of the solar atmosphere
may be furnished by photography that it would otherwise take centuries to accumulate, even
under the most favorable circumstances.

The advantages to be gained by accurate photographs of the moon and planets, that will permit
great enlargements, are too obvious to call for lengthened notice in such a rapid sketch as
the present; for it is principally in the observation of details that the eye cannot grasp
with the required delicacy, or with sufficient rapidity, that photography is so essential for
rapid and sure progress.

Like the sketches of a solar eclipse, the drawings that are made of comets, and still more
of nebulæ, even by the most accomplished artists, are all, to say the least, open to doubt
in their delicate details. And the truth of this is so obvious, that it is the expressed opinion
of an able astronomer that a single photograph of the nebula of Orion, taken by Mr. Common,
would be of more value to posterity than the collective drawings of this interesting object
so carefully made by Rosse, Bond, Secchi, and so many others.

Another most important branch of astronomy, that is receiving very great attention at present,
is the mapping of the starry heavens; and herein photography will perhaps do its best work
for the astronomer. The trial star map by the brothers Henry, of a portion of the Milky Way,
which they felt unable to observe satisfactorily by the ordinary methods, is so near absolute
perfection that it alone proves the immense superiority of the photographic method in the formation
of star maps. Fortunately this subject, which is as vast as it is fundamental, is being taken
up vigorously. The Henries are producing a special lens for the work; Mr. Grubb is constructing
a special Cassgrain reflector for Mr. Roberts of Maghull; and the Admiralty have instructed
Mr. Woods to make this part of his work at the Cape Observatory, under the able direction of
Dr. Gill. Besides star maps, clusters, too, and special portions of the heavens are being photographed
by the Rev. T.E. Espin, of West Kirby; and such pictures will be of the greatest value, not
only in fixing the position at a given date, but also aiding in the determination of magnitude,
color, variability, proper motion, and even of the orbits of double and multiple stars, and
the possible discovery of new planets and telescopic comets.

Such are some of the many branches of astronomy that are receiving the most valuable aid at
present from photography; but the very value of the gift that is bestowed should make exaggeration
an impossibility. Photography can well afford to be generous, but it must first be just, in
its estimate of the work that has still to be done in astronomy independently of its aid; and
although the older science points with just pride to what is being done for her by her younger
sister, still she must not forget that now, as in the future, she must depend largely for her
progress, not only on the skill of the photographer and the mathematician, but also on the
trained eye and ear and hand of her own indefatigable observers.--S.J. Perry, S.J., F.R.S.,
in Br. Jour. of Photography.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELECTRICITY AS A PREVENTIVE OF SCALE IN BOILERS.

The mineral sediment that generally sticks to the sides of steam boilers, and the presence
of which is fraught with the utmost danger, resulting in many instances in great injury to
life and property, besides eating away the substance of the iron plate, was referred to in
a paper lately read by M. Jeannolle before the Paris Academy of Sciences, in which the author
described a new method for keeping boilers clean. This method is as follows:

The inside of a steam boiler is placed, by means of piles of a certain power, in reciprocal
communication, the current passing at one end through positive, and at the other through negative,
wires. In incrusted steam boilers, at a temperature ranging from 212° to 300° Fahr., and a
pressure of from 30 to 90 lb. to the square inch, the current thus engendered decomposes the
accumulated salts, and precipitates them, from which they may easily be removed, either by
means of a special siphon or by means of some other mechanical process. When boilers are free
from fur, and where it is intended to keep them free from such, a continuous current may be
set up, by means of which the sedimentary salts may be decomposed, and a precipitate produced
in a pulverized form, which can be removed with equal facility.

From a series of minute experiments made by M. Jeannolle, it appears that in order to render
the various actions of electricity, perfect, it is necessary to coat either with red lead or
with pulverized iron, or with any other conductor of electricity, an operation which must be
repeated whenever the boiler is emptied with a view to cleaning out. The above system Is being
advantageously applied in Calais for removing the incrustations of boilers. The two poles of
a battery of ten to twelve Bunsen elements are applied to the ends of the boilers, and after
thirty to forty hours the deposits fall from the sides to the bottom. When a boiler has been
thus cleared, the formation of new deposits may be prevented by applying a much less energetic
current under the same conditions.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALPHABET DESIGNED BY GODFREY SYKES.

Among the many designs which have been issued by the South Kensington Museum authorities is
the alphabet which we have illustrated here to-day. The letters appear frequently among the
decorations of the museum buildings, especially in the refreshment rooms and the Ceramic gallery,
where long inscriptions in glazed terra cotta form ornamental friezes. The alphabet has also
been engraved to several sizes, and is used for the initial letters in the various official
books and art publications relating to the museum, which are published by the Science and Art
Department.--Building News.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD WROUGHT IRON GATE.

This gate forms the entrance to Scraptoft Hall, a building of the eighteenth century, now the
seat of Captain Barclay, and which stands at about five miles from Leicester, England.--The
Architect.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRIEF SANITARY MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH ISOLATED COUNTRY HOUSES.[4]

[Footnote 4: Read before the Boston Society of Civil Engineers, April 1884 Journal A. of E.
Societies.]

By E.W. BOWDITCH, C.E.

I am unable to tell you what is generally considered the best practice, for I am not sure there
are any definitely established rules; therefore I can only explain my ways of doing such work,
which, though I try to make as complete and at the same time as simple as possible, I know
to be far from perfect.

Plumbing and drainage work has grown up unconsciously with my landscape gardening, and not
finding any texts or practice that seemed wholly satisfactory, I have been forced to devise
new arrangements from time to time, according to the requirements of the case in hand.

To give all the details of house plumbing this evening, or any one evening, would be impossible,
for lack of time, and not worth while even if there was time, as much of it would prove matter
of little or no interest. I will confine my remarks, therefore, to certain elements of the
work where my practice differs, I believe, essentially from that of most engineers, and where
perhaps my experience, if of no assistance to other members of the Society, may excite their
friendly criticism in such a way as to help me.

There are two kinds of country places that I am liable to be called upon to prescribe for:

First. A new place where nothing has been arranged.

Second. An old place where the occupants have been troubled either by their outside arrangements
or by fixtures or pipes within.

Under the first head let us suppose a small tract of perhaps two acres of land in some inland
town, where the family intends to live but six months in the year, though they are liable to
reside there the whole twelve.

There are no sewers and no public water. The soil is a stiff, retentive clay, rather wet in
spring. The desire is expressed to have plumbing and drainage that shall be as inexpensive
as possible, but that shall be entirely safe.

In considering the arrangements inside the house, I find myself in the same predicament as
the French surgeon, a specialist upon setting the bones of the arm, who, when a patient was
brought him with his right arm broke, expressed his sorrow at being unable to be of assistance,
as his specialty was the left arm.

I have endeavored to post myself thoroughly upon house plumbing, but confess to only knowing
partially about the wastes; the supplies I do not feel competent to pass upon.

One class of annoyance caused by plumbing, perhaps the principal one, is due to the soil pipe
or some of its fittings.

Second quality of iron, poor hanging, insufficient calking, careless mechanics, putty, cement,
rag, or paper joints--all these and a dozen other things are liable to be sources of trouble.
Subordinate wastes are apt to be annoying, occasionally, too, to a less extent.

The mechanical work can always be superintended, and within certain limits may be made secure
and tight; not so easy, however, with the materials.

There is seldom a valid excuse for ever making waste pipes, within a building, of anything
but metal.

Earthen tile is frequently used; also, to a limited extent, brick, stone, and wood; twice I
have found canvas--all these, however, are inferior, and should never be accepted or specified.
The writer believes that at the present time, hereabouts, lead and iron are more used for wastes
than any other materials, and are found the most satisfactory on the whole.

One or two arrangements, relative to the wastes, I have made use of that are not, so far as
known, in general use, and that may not be the best, though they have served me many good turns,
and I have not succeeded in devising any better.

Soil pipe, as it is usually put in, is apt to be of cast iron, four inches in diameter, and
is known in the market as "heavy" or "extra heavy." For some years the tar-coated or black
enameled pipe has been the favorite, as being the more reliable, the writer in common with
others making use of the same freely, until one day a cracked elbow, tar coated, was detected.
Since that time plain, untarred pipe has been specified, and subjected to the so-called kerosene
test, which consists of swabbing out each pipe with kerosene or oil and then allowing it to
stand for a few hours. A moment's thought will convince any one that when a pipe is asphalted
or tar coated it is very difficult to detect either sand holes or small cracks, and the difficulty
of proper calking is increased, as lead does not cling so well to the tar as to plain iron.

At present, the kerosene test, so far as the writer is concerned, is a misnomer, because raw
linseed oil is used exclusively as giving more satisfactory results, and being less troublesome
to apply.

I have here a length of the ordinary "heavy 4" commercial soil pipe, plain, and selected at
random. Yesterday noon I had it oiled at my office, in order to be ready for to-night, and
you see, by the chalk marks I have made, just where the leaks were and their area. I may say
here that a sound pipe of this caliber and standard weight is the exception rather than the
rule, and it was selected for this experiment merely to try and show the reaction a little
better than the heavier pipe might.

Experiments of this nature I have carried along for the past two years, and I am glad to say
that, since I began, the quality of the soil pipe furnished by the dealers for my work seems
appreciably better than at first. Whether the poorer pipe is still made and sold to other customers
I have no means of knowing; probably it is, however.

A large quantity of the pipe is now being tested at my suggestion by the Superintendent of
Construction of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, at Baltimore. I have not yet heard the results
from him, but doubtless they will be interesting. A brief summary of the results may be of
some interest.

The different makers of soil pipe generally used by plumbers hereabouts are:

Mott & Company, Abendroth, Blakslee, Dighton, Phillips & Weeden, and Bartlett, Hayward & Co.

On 4" extra heavy pipe my results have been as follows:

Percentage passed as good, single hub.  60 per ct. to 70 per ct.
Percentage passed as good, double.      20 per ct. to 80 per ct.
Percentage passed special castings,
   including Y's and T's.               60 per ct.

5" pipe extra heavy:

Percentage passed as good, single hub.  25 per ct. to 35 per ct. Percentage passed as good,
double.      No record. Percentage special castings, including Y's and T's.               
60 per ct.

