The Southern confederacy is the organized protest of anarchy against law. It represents in
politics that doctrine in religious thought which declares every man a law unto himself. It
kicks against the restraints of constitutions and laws, declaring virtually that when a law,
or a constitution ordaining laws, ceases to be agreeable, its binding force is gone. For a
similar and equally valid reason, some men (and, alas! some women), disregarding the solemn
sanctions of the marriage tie, have been willing to set aside this first law of the family
and of home. The Southern confederacy also makes light of national agreements, disposing of
them according to the facile doctrine of repudiation, which its perjured chief once adopted
as the basis of a system of state finance. It is eminently in accordance with the fitness of
things, that the man who could counsel his State to repudiate its bonds, should stand at the
head of a confederacy which began its existence by repudiating the sacred agreement to which
the faith and fortune of all its members were solemnly pledged, and under the broad shield
of whose protection they had grown prosperous and powerful. If one may be permitted to express
an opinion different from Mr. Stephens's, it might be said that the corner stone of the Southern
confederacy is properly repudiation. On the other hand, the cause of the United States is the
cause of order. It is also the cause of freedom.

It is important to note the union of these two forces of civilization; for hitherto, in the
great wars of history, liberty has generally opposed itself to order, and has too often seemed
to be synonymous with anarchy. The passions of the masses have too often burst forth, in great
revolutions, like volcanic eruptions, carrying devastation and destruction in their path; The
French Revolution stands for the type and instance of all these terrible catastrophes. This
war of ours presents a different spectacle; for in the maintenance of it the two principles
of freedom and order go hand in hand. It is this union of them which demands for the United
States, in this contest, the support of both the great parties of civilization--the conservatives
and the radicals. It is, therefore, preëminently a just war, because waged in the combined
interests of liberty and order.

But, it is objected, you, in effect, deny the right of revolution. No; on the contrary, we
establish it. For the right of revolution is no right for any people unless they have wrongs.
The right of revolution is not an absolute, it is a relative right. Like all such rights, it
has its limitations--the limitation of the public law and the public conscience. For neither
the public law nor the public conscience sanctions revolution for the sole sake of revolution.
That brave old revolutionist of early Rome, Brutus, understood this well, and though his country
was groaning under the oppression of Tarquin, he sighed for 'a cause.' There must be a cause
for revolution, and such a cause as will commend itself to men's consciences, as well as to
the just principles of law and equity.

Some men seem to think that revolution is, of itself, a blessed thing. They love change in
government for the sake of change. When Julius Cæsar invaded Gaul he found just such men, and
he characterized them, in his terse military way, as those who 'studied new things,' that is,
desired constantly a renewal of public affairs, or renovation of government. He found these
men, moreover, his most ready tools, even in his designs against their country's liberties;
and it would seem as though this revolutionary characteristic of the early inhabitants of Gaul
had remained impressed upon their descendants ever since.

We repeat that the right of revolution is a limited right. An absolute and unlimited right
of revolution would only be the other extreme of an absolute and unlimited government; and
this is not the age of absolutism in matters of government. Just as absolute liberty is an
impracticable thing, in the present constitution of human beings, so the absolute right of
revolution, which derives its highest title from the sacred right of liberty, is equally impracticable.
We must be careful how we use these words liberty and revolution. Words are things in a time
of earnest work like the present. The war is settling the old scholastic dispute for us, and
is making us all realists. Liberty and loyalty and law are no longer brave words merely: they
are things, and things of tremendous power; and some men slink away from them. But we need
to remember that liberty does not mean license. The political liberty of our time, testing
the truth of our representative democracy, is constitutional liberty. It presupposes an organic
law, giving force and effect to it: and without this organic law, liberty is a delusion and
a dream--a vague unsubstantiality. Liberty is like the lightning. To be made an agent of man's
political salvation, it must be brought down from its home in the clouds, and put under the
restraints and checks of institutions. The institutions protect it; it sanctifies the institutions.
In its unchecked power, like the lightning, it annihilates and overwhelms man. Unchecked, it
becomes a reckless license, disgracing history and its own fair name with such scenes as the
French Revolution, and causing the martyred defenders of its sacred majesty to cry out, in
bitter agony of disappointment: 'O Liberty, what crimes are committed in thy name!'

In fact, the liberty that is valuable is the liberty that is regulated by law; just as the
law that is valuable is the law that has the spirit of liberty. This is the American doctrine
of constitutional liberty, as it has ever been expounded by our great statesmen and orators;
and it commends itself to the sound sense of all reflecting men.

In seeking, therefore, to subvert our Constitution, the South attack the principle of liberty,
which is the basis of it, and which it guarantees. More than this, they attack the principle
of constitutional liberty; for their secession is in virtue of that unchecked liberty which
is license, that absolute liberty which is anarchy. They are not contending for the sacred
right of revolution. It is treason against that majestic principle to apply it to the cause
of the South. They were not oppressed; they were not even controlled by a dominant party opposed
to them; their will was almost law, for it made our laws. According to the theory of our Constitution,
they possessed equal rights with all other sections of the Union; under the practice of it,
and in fact, they had gradually come to possess and were actually wielding greater power than
all other sections. It is thus seen how vain and absurd is the plea that they were driven into
revolution to redress wrongs, or that they revolted and seceded for the purpose of preserving
rights. Their rights were neither actually assailed, nor were likely to be assailed. The protest
of that eminent statesman of the South who afterward ('oh, what a fall was there, my countrymen!')
became the second officer of its traitorous government, is conclusive evidence on this point.
The Southern rebellion is simply and entirely the effort to secure exclusive control where
formerly the South had a joint control. Robert Toombs said, in a conversation, in Georgia,
in the winter of 1860-'61: 'We intend, sir, to have a government of our own and we won't have
any compromises.' To the same import is the letter of Mason to Davis, in 1856, which has lately
seen the light. To one not blinded by prejudice, indeed, the evidences are overwhelming of
a long-plotted conspiracy on the part of certain leading politicians, without the knowledge
and contrary to the known intentions of the Southern people. The Southern rebellion is simply
the attempt to break up a constitutional government, by politicians who had become dissatisfied
with the natural and inevitable workings and tendencies of it, even though administered by
themselves. It is simply, therefore, the question of anarchy that we have to deal with. Therefore,
we say that the North is fighting for the idea of government.

We are not seeking to perpetuate oppressive power. On the other hand, the rebellion is a flagrant
attempt to organize oppression. We are seeking to perpetuate power, it is true, but a power
which has stood for nearly a hundred years, and must continue to stand, if it stand at all,
as a bulwark against oppression. We are vindicating our right to be, as a nation. We are proving
our title to rank among the powers of the earth. We are vindicating the majesty of our supreme
organic law. That supreme organic law is the Constitution. It ordains for itself a method of
amendment, so as to leave no right of revolution against it. It admits no right of revolution,
because in ordaining and establishing it the parties to it expressly merged that right in another
principle, adopted to avoid the necessity of a resort to revolution. In other words, the right
of revolution is in our Constitution exalted into the peaceful principle of amendment. Instead,
therefore, of really being denied, the right of revolution is, indeed, enlarged and consecrated
in our system of government, which rests upon that right. In vindicating and maintaining, therefore,
that system, we vindicate and maintain with it the right of revolution. But we deny any such
thing as a right of revolution for the sole sake of revolution; because it leads to anarchy.
We deny the right of revolution for the sake of oppression; because it leads to absolutism.
Revolution in the interests of order, justice, and freedom, we hold to be the only right worthy
of the name, and God help our nation never to oppose such a revolution!

Since the foregoing was written, an article in Frazer's Magazine, for last October, has fallen
under the writer's notice, which discusses the point under consideration, and expresses similar
views with those here stated. An extract from it is given to show how the question is viewed
from a British stand-point:

     'The principle of American independence was, that when a
     considerable body of men are badly governed and oppressed by a
     government under which they live, they have a right to resist and
     withdraw from it; and unless everything in the history of England
     of which we have been accustomed to boast, from Magna Charta to the
     Reform Bill, was a crime, this principle is perfectly true. To deny
     to the United States, as most of our public writers did deny to
     them, the right of putting down resistance not justified by
     oppression, and to impose upon them the duty of submitting at once
     to any resistance whatsoever, whether justified or not, was
     equivalent to maintaining that chronic anarchy was the only state
     of things which could exist in North America.'

It is refreshing to read in a British periodical so clear a statement of this just distinction.
We cannot forbear to cite another extract from the same article, because it confirms so clearly
the argument of this paper:

     'The Dutch fought the Spaniards for their hearths, homes, and
     churches; the French fought all Europe with famine and the
     guillotine behind them, and empire and plenty in front. The English
     in India had the pride of superior race and the memory of
     inexpiable injuries to urge them against the Sepoys; but if ever a
     nation in this world sacrificed itself deliberately and manfully to
     an idea, this has been the case with the Americans.'

What is this idea to which we have thus bravely sacrificed ourselves, even a phlegmatic Englishman
being the judge? It is the idea of the nation--the idea that the nation is the gift of God,
to be cherished and defended as a sacred trust; and that we can no more rid ourselves of its
obligations than we can rid ourselves of the obligations of home or the church. To the reckless
assertion of those who say that the United States is, in this war, actuated by the lust for
power, and is not moved by the inspiration of great ideas, we oppose the foregoing candid statement
of a third party, and one not very likely to be prejudiced in our favor. It is the testimony
of an unwilling witness, and therefore of great weight.

Summing up the points that have been considered in this paper, it seems clear that so far as
the war is a contest for ideas, the North, standing for the United States, has the right of
it. For, first, we contend for political equality, the grand idea of the age and the ages;
comprehending within itself, and presupposing, as a logical premise, the grander idea of liberty.
Thus also we vindicate the rights of man, as a fact of government and as a principle of political
philosophy. And, secondly, we contend for the sacred right of order, as opposed to the destructive
radicalism of revolution for the sake of oppression and not in the name of liberty.

We believe that our nation has been born, in the providence of God, to the magnificent mission
of developing the democratic idea, of the rule of the people--the idea that every man is a
king, and that humanity itself is royal because made in the image of God. The nation is now
vindicating that mission before the world. In the success of it all the great ideas that cheer
on our poor humanity in its toiling march--liberty, justice, political order--confirmed and
made sure by a government organized for the purpose of securing and maintaining them, are bound
up; and--with that mission those ideas, as organized powers, must live or die.

HINTS TO THE AMERICAN FARMER.

It does not so much signify what a man does for a livelihood, provided he does it well. The
people must sooner or later learn this catholic doctrine, or one element of republicanism will
never be knit into our character. The doing it well is the essential point, whether one builds
a ship or writes a poem. Does the American farmer do his work well? And, if not, wherewith
shall he be advised, persuaded, encouraged, and taught to do better or the best?

It is estimated that three fourths of the people of the United States are agriculturists, and
nearly all the rest laborers of some sort dependent upon them. Every economist knows that the
interests of agriculture, manufactures, and commerce are one and indivisible. He who by word
or deed helps one, helps all, and thereby moves civilization onward one step at least. Before
our Government takes hold of the condition of agriculture in the United States as a state measure,
and even after it comes up to the hour when we shall have a Secretary of Agriculture, Manufactures,
and Commerce in the cabinet, after the manner of France, Italy, and Prussia, the farmer himself,
individually, must work some important and radical changes in his social and industrial polity,
and prepare himself for the generous assistance of a wise and beneficent Government.

The farmer supports every other material interest. Standing upon the primary strata of civilization,
he bears on his broad hands and stout shoulders the 'weight of mightiest monarchies.' Daniel
Webster calls him 'the founder of civilization.'

Is it at all necessary that the spring in the hills should be cool, clear, and pure, and wind
its way over a granitic soil, through green meadows, beneath the shading forest, into a sandy
basin, to form a beautiful lake in a retired, rural retreat? If so, is it at all necessary
that the moral virtues of the founders of society should be duly educated, cultured into the
soul, leaving the impress on generation after generation, of honor, of order, of manliness,
of thrift? The condition of the farmers is the postulate by which the sagacious economist will
foretell the future prosperity of the nation they represent. This is what the American farmer
should have presented to him from every stand-point. It is lamentable that this vocation should
be so sadly represented by the most of those who are engaged in it.

This occupation of farming is the noblest work which can engage the attention of man. Off of
his farm, whether it be large or small, the farmer, by diligent and intelligent cultivation,
can gather whatever he or the world needs; what the world needs for its manufactures and commerce;
what he needs for his personal comfort, pleasure, or the gratification of his natural tastes;--the
two crops which furnish the daily bread to the material and spiritual nature of man;--the green
fields, than which nothing is more beautiful; the sweet song of birds, their gay plumage, their
happy conferences, their winged life, making melodious the woods and fields; the sky, ever
above us, ever changing, grand at morning, magnificent at evening, hanging like a gracious
benediction over us; the flowers, ever opening their petals to the sun, turning their beauty
on the air, to delight, instruct, and bless mankind;--indulging his taste for art, in the plan
of his farm and buildings, their claims to architectural skill; in the planting of his fruit
and ornamental trees, 'in groves, in lines, in copses;' in the form and make of his fishponds,
shady walks, grottos, or rural seats for quiet resort for study, comfort, pleasure, or rest.

The ancients paid great attention to the cultivation of the earth. Many of the best men of
Greece were agriculturists. Mind was given to it, and great progress was made in the improvement
of implements; in the method of cultivation, and in the additional yield of their farms. The
Romans continued for a long period to improve on the state of agriculture as they received
it from the Grecians, until the political condition of their country destroyed all freedom
and independence of action and thought. The best and greatest men of all ages and countries,
statesmen, scholars, kings, and presidents, have loved it, followed it, and labored for its
advancement. Do noble minds stoop to ignoble vocations, and become identified with them? This
nation, not yet a century old, can boast, as among the statesmen-farmers, of Washington, Adams,
Jefferson, Patrick Henry, Franklin, Jackson, Calhoun, Clay, and Webster, and many others, the
least of whose greatness of character was not that they loved nature, or knew the charm of
agricultural pursuits. The occupation has become sanctified by their devotion to it.

We all know the sympathy and love of the late lamented Prince Albert for the vocation of farming,
and the liberality with which, on his model farm, experiments were verified which in any manner
might contribute to the interests of the farmer. He even entered the lists for the prize for
the best stock at the yearly exhibitions of the Royal Agricultural Society. There is something
very suggestive of nobility in this vocation of farming, when the brightest intellects of the
nation bow in homage to the strength of mother earth, and seek by severe thought, study, and
experiment, to assist a further yield of her kindly fruits, or persuade her to bestow a portion
of her bounties, so long withheld, upon the wooing husbandman. It marks agriculture as the
first and highest calling for the development in the highest degree of the nation and of mankind.

Every man may have his plot of ground, in the cultivation and adornment of which he may realize
the pleasure which accompanies the calling of amateur farmer, horticulturist, or florist, in
which he is in constant communication with nature and her beauty. 'In it there is no corruption,
but rather goodness.'

How kindly nature seems to have dealt with some of the old farmers who even now tread the broad
earth, beloved and reverenced by all who know them! What simplicity and purity of speech; what
honesty of manner; what kind dispositions; what charity of judgment; what tenderness of heart;
what nobility of soul seem to have concentrated in each one of them! They are the gifts of
nature, gathered, developed, interpreted, personified in man. They are our aristocracy. From
them through generation after generation shall flow the pure blood of the best men in republican
America. Ages hence, the children who enjoy the privileges of this republic, and endeavor to
trace their lineage through history to find the fountain of their present American stock, will
as surely meet with no unpleasant encounter, nor be compelled to forego the search from fear
of mortification, as they trace their family line through long generations of intelligent American
farmers. Superficial 'Young America' and 'our best society' may smirk, snicker, sneer, and
live on, slaves to fashion and the whims of Mrs. Grundy, in their fancied secure social position
for all time. But ere long the balance of man's better judgment, the best society of great
men, and representatives for history of a great people, will weigh in opposite scales the artificialities,
the formalities, the selfishness of popular social circles, against the honesty, the naturalness,
the simplicity, the worth of the practical lovers of nature; and the result shall be the inscription
upon the wall which made their prototypes of old tremble, reflecting upon them also its ghostly
and terrific glare. Were it not for the infusion almost constantly going on, from the country,
of fresh blood into the veins of the diseased body politic in our largest cities, destruction,
disgrace, and financial ruin would early mark the spot where once flourished a proud and sinful
people.

In farming, man has to do with nature. Out of doors he spends the greater portion of his life.
His intelligent eye takes in the beautiful objects of land and sky, sea and mountain; his refined
ear, by practice and cultivation, delights in the exquisite harmony of the birds, the music
of the wind, the murmuring of the sea, the sighing amid the forests;--the beauty of the flowers,
springing in the utmost profusion at his feet--peeping at early spring from beneath the lately
fallen snow, an earnest that life yet remains under the clods of apparently exhausted nature--their
continued offerings through the long and sultry days of summer; the trees putting on their
rich and glowing robes at autumn, ripening for their restoration to the bosom which gave them
life and which yielded them to us for a season, clothing all the hills, valleys, and mountains
with the gorgeous colors from 'nature's royal laboratory.' Who can say this beauty and this
pleasure are for nought? The intelligence which observes and loves these sights hesitates not,
nor can it be deterred from reflecting upon their Source. The farmer, turning the sod with
the plough, and dropping the grain into the newly turned furrow, expects life amid the decay
of the clod. The favorable sunshine and shower, the gentle dews and heat of summer bring forth,
after a partial decay of the seed, the blade, the ear, and after that the full corn in the
ear. The perfume of the newly turned earth exhilarates and refreshes the spirits of the laborer
and what appears the hardest work becomes a welcome task. Toil here has its immediate recompense.
Always peaceful, always contented and cheerful, always kind, there is no want of companions
whose presence is delightful and never burdensome. The oriole, the swallow, the sparrow, the
cawing crow, the chipmuck, or the squirrel will not desert him. He can always rely upon their
presence while engaged in the necessary preparation for the harvest. The flowers are with him,
and the perfume from the blossoms in the fields and orchard will fall like incense upon his
receptive spirit. His thoughts will turn involuntarily to the Origin of all Good, from which
have come to him, in so great abundance, the favorable conditions for happiness and peace.

Contemplating in silence and alone, away from the distractions of busy life in cities, the
disappointments of politics, and the petty disturbances and quarrels of a more crowded existence,
his thoughts become pure, holy, and sacred.

The tree grows slowly but surely beside his door, under whose shadows he has rested at the
close of the summer's day, and, with his family about him, reflected upon his finished labors,
and planned the work for to-morrow. The wonderful power of the Creator, and the matchless argument
for His existence, as displayed in the beauty of the heavens, are spread before him. Its presence
is a blessing to him. This tree, a century ago the tiny seed of the beautiful elm, which floated
perhaps on some zephyr, or, tossed by some summer gale, dropped noiselessly into its cradle
at this door--fortune favored its growth, and protected it from the injuries of chance or intent.
It patiently grew and spread its hospitable arms, as if to embrace the surrounding neighborhood,
and is now a protection and safeguard, a blessing and a continued promise of the watchfulness
and care of the Father. This honest, grateful, simple soul has learned from it the beauty of
a patient spirit. It has been always to him the generous companion of his weary moments, never
failing to return at spring the beauty so ruthlessly torn at autumn; rendering to his just
soul the contentment of the well-doer in this world's works, yet still progressing, growing,
and enlarging in its sphere of usefulness and trust.

The regularity in the procession of the seasons, the dependence and faith inculcated by their
never-failing return of the bounties asked of them for his proper observance of their demands,
have rendered order a controlling power with him, and punctuality has become a virtue.

The large independence of the concerns of men has not made him autocratic in manner, nor indifferent
to progress in the condition of mankind. Faithful to the duties of the good citizen, and to
himself, he has not forgotten his moral duties toward the social polity, and neither state,
nor church, nor school, nor family, but feels the influence of his tender care. Health has
been always with him and on his side. Cleanliness is throughout his household, and scrupulous
care of the manners, neatness, and thrift which make a good farmer's home so cheerful, is his.

Such is the intelligent, patient, thorough cultivator of the soil. Is there not a nobility
of nature in it, far surpassing that which the false standard of society gives to man? What
profession, business, or vocation of any sort engaged in by man, carries in its legitimate
course these joys, this peacefulness, this hope? Here are not the anxieties, nor perplexities,
nor fears, nor losses attendant upon the occupations in the more crowded haunts of business.
Plenty fills his garners; happiness attends his footsteps; peace crowns his life.

We would that this good soul might truly represent every farmer on our soil. We are compelled
to acknowledge the shortcomings of this class of persons, upon whom so much depends, and, by
showing in which direction their prominent faults lie, endeavor to persuade them to accept
a better standing in the social state, where they are so much needed.

A man shows in his daily acts the early education of his home. The impressions there made upon
him in his young and growing life are proverbially deep and abiding. The circumstances which
develop the character of the good farmer in one town, are the circumstances which develop the
good farmer wheresoever he may be; but the circumstances which make so many of our farmers
at this day, coarse in speech, vulgar in manners, untidy in dress and in the arrangement of
their farms and their habitations, ignorant, thoughtless, thriftless, indifferent, wasteful,
lazy, are not arbitrary circumstances, but pliant and yielding, willing instruments, in the
hands of good workmen, to raise, elevate, and instruct all who can be brought within their
influence.

The agriculturist who combines with his knowledge and skill in farming a refined taste for
the simple elegancies which may form a part and parcel of every well-ordered homestead, will
often grieve at the neglect, indolence, and ignorance, shown by the too sad condition of many
of our so-called American farms.

The farmhouse of this waste place we call a farm, is located as near as possible to the dusty
highway which passes through the country. Unpainted, or unwhitewashed, without a front fence,
without shade trees or flowers near it, or by it, it stands like a grim and sombre sentinel,
guarding a harsh and lonely existence, at once a prophecy and a warning. There is no home feeling
in it. Everything connected with the internal movements or the external management of the place
is in full view: the woodpile with its chips scattered about over a radius of fifty yards;
a number of old, castaway, and condemned vehicles lie where they were left after their last
use; mounds of rubbish and old brushwood, weeds, soiled clothing, farming tools, and implements
of husbandry, are here and there, uncared for, unnoticed, and neglected. The poultry, pigs,
and cattle he possesses, wander about the door, at once front and rear, or, unobstructed by
any serviceable fence, trespass upon the newly planted field or unmown meadows, getting such
living as fortune places in their way. The barn may be without doors, the barnyard without
a gate or bars, and in full view from every passer by. The sty and the house drain--in fact,
every necessary out-building--is in plain sight to the public, on the sunny side of the house,
or as near the front of it as is possible for circumstances to permit. The airs of summer and
of autumn come to the delighted senses of the residents 'impregnated with the incense' of these
sweet surroundings, which, like Gray's unseen flower, are not destined

  'To waste their sweetness on the desert air.'

And who are the delighted occupants of this charming spot? The external appearance and condition
of things too sadly betray their character. The man is coarse and vulgar in speech and in manners;
untidy, careless, and uncleanly in person and dress; ignorant, lazy, and perhaps intemperate,
with no thought beyond the gratification of his bodily wants and desires. Slang words and obscene
are his daily vocabulary; selfishness his best-developed trait, and want the only incentive
for his labor. His partner is like unto him, or worse, either by nature or association. Without
taste, modesty, good sense, or natural refinement, she accompanies her dear Silas in his round
of life, sympathizing in his lowness, his common feeling, and his common complaints--slatternly
in her dress, rude in speech, coarse in manner, slovenly in her household duties. These two
creatures, with their children, too often call themselves farmers, agriculturists, or tillers
of the soil. The poet Cowper well describes them in his poem representing 'the country boors'
gathered together at tithing time at the residence of their country parson.

