A
                                      WALK
                                     THROUGH
                                    LEICESTER;
                                      BEING
                               A GUIDE TO STRANGERS,
                                    CONTAINING
                                  A DESCRIPTION
                                      OF THE
                              TOWN AND ITS ENVIRONS,
                              WITH REMARKS UPON ITS
                             HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES.

                                                              SHAKESPEARE.

                     LEICESTER, PRINTED BY T. COMBE,
                               AND SOLD BY
                   T. HURST, PATER-NOSTER-ROW, LONDON,
                                  1804.

ADDRESS.

The Editor of the following pages, while he has been solicitous to furnish those who travel
with a POCKET CICERONE, feels at the same time a wish that it may not be unacceptable to those
who are at home.  The latter, though, in the subject of this survey, they trace an old, a familiar
scene, will still feel that it possesses that interest which the native spot binds around the
mind, and when they point out to their intelligent visitors and curious friends the most memorable
objects of their antient and honourable Town, it is his wish that this little companion may
be found useful; he, therefore, while he rejoices in their support and feels their liberality,
inscribes it with respect and gratitude, to the

                        INHABITANTS OF LEICESTER.

A WALK THROUGH LEICESTER.

To the traveller who may wish to visit whatever is deemed most worthy of notice in the town
of Leicester, the following sketch is devoted.  And as the highly cultivated state of topographical
knowledge renders superficial remark unpardonable in local description, we shall endeavor to
produce, at the various objects of our visit, such information and reflections as a conductor,
not wholly uninformed, may be expected to offer to the curious and intelligent, while he guides
him through a large, commercial, and, we trust, a respectable town; the capital of a province
which can honestly boast, that by its rich pasturage, its flocks and herds, it supplies England
with the blessings of agricultural fertility; and by the industry of its frame-work-knitters,
affords an article that quickens and extends the operations of commerce.

We now request our good-humoured stranger to accept of such our guidance; whether he be the
tourist, whose object of inquiry is general information--or the man of reflection, who, wherever
he goes, whether in crouded towns or solitary fields, finds something to engage his meditation--or
the mercantile rider, who, when the business of his commissions is transacted, quits his lonely
parlour for a stroll through the streets--we shall endeavor to bring before his eye as much
of interest as our scenes will afford: and as for the diligent antiquary, we assure him we
will make the most of our Roman remains; and we hope he will not quarrel with the rough forest
stones of our streets, when we promise him they shall conduct him to the smoother pavement
of Roman mosaic.

What may have been the name of the town we are about to traverse, before the establishment
of the Romans, cannot be ascertained; for the Britons had no written monuments, and it cannot
be expected that tradition should have survived the revolutions, which, since that period,
have taken place in this island.  King Leir, and whatever surmises may have been founded on
the similarity between his name and the present name of the place, may safely be left to those
who are more fond of the flights of conjecture than the solid arguments of truth.

After the establishment of the Romans, Leicester became one of their most important stations;
was known, we are well assured, by the name of RATAE, and was a colony, composed of the soldiers
from the legions, having magistrates, manners, and language the same as Rome itself.  Under
the Saxon dynasty it obtained the name of LEICESTER, compounded of castrum, or cester, from
its having been a Roman military station, and leag, or lea, a pasture surrounded by woods,
for such was antiently the scite of the town.  This name it has preserved, with less alteration
in the mode of spelling than almost any other town in the kingdom, through the barbarous reigns
of the Saxon kings, the oppressive system of the feudal times, the dark gloom of monkish superstition,
and the fatal revolutions occasioned by the civil commotions of later ages.

Such is, most probably, the true etymology of the name of the place we are now proceeding to
survey; for which purpose we will suppose the visitor to set forward from the Three Crowns
Inn, along a strait wide street, called

GALLOWTREE-GATE,

(corruptly pronounced Goltre), from its having formerly led to the place of execution, the
left side of which is the scite of the antient city walls.

At the bottom of this street, a building, formerly the assembly-room, but now converted to
purposes of trade, with a piazza, under which is a machine for weighing coals, forms the centre
of five considerable streets.  The

HUMBERSTONE-GATE,

on the right, leads to a range of new and handsome dwellings, called SPA-PLACE, from a chalybeate
spring found there, which, though furnished by the proprietor with neat marble baths and every
convenient appendage for bathing, has not been found sufficiently impregnated with mineral
properties to bring it into use.  The Humberstone-Gate is out of the local limits of the borough,
and subject to the concurrent jurisdiction of the county and borough magistrates; though in
the reigns of Edward VI. and Elizabeth, attempts were made to bring it exclusively under the
magisterial power of the town.  It is part of the manor possessed by the Bishops of Lincoln,
in the twelfth century, and is still called the Bishops' Fee.

Southward from the Humberstone-Gate to the Goltre-Gate, very considerable additions, consisting
of several streets, have lately been made to the town.

Advancing forward, the visitor, on passing the weighing machine, enters the

BELGRAVE-GATE,

a street of considerable extent, in the broader part of which stands what may justly be deemed
one of the most valuable curiosities of the place; it is a milliare, or Roman mile-stone, forming
part of a small obelisk. This stone was discovered in 1771, by some workmen, digging to form
a rampart for a new turnpike-road from Leicester to Melton, upon the foss road leading to Newark,
and at the distance of two miles from Leicester. Antiquarians allow it to be the oldest milliare
now extant in Britain; and perhaps the inscription upon it is older than most others that have
been found upon altars, or other monuments of Roman antiquity in this island.  It is about
three feet long, and between five and six in circumference.  The inscription, when the abbreviations
are filled up, may be read thus--

                              Imperator Caesar,
                     Divi Trajani Parthici Filius Divus,
                         Trajanus Hadrianus Augustus,
                   Potestate IV. Consulatu III. A Ratis II.

                          Hadrian Trajanus Augustus,
     Emperor & Caesar, the son of the most illustrious Trajan Parthicus,
             In the 4th year of his reign, and his 3d consulate.
                       From Ratae (Leicester) 2 miles.

Such is the inscription on this milliare, which our industrious antiquaries seem faithfully
to have extracted from among the ruins of time and the injuries of accident; an object, which
exhibits a curious instance of the civilization introduced by the Roman arms into this island;
for the erection of marks to denote the distance from place to place, is an accommodation,
at least to the travelling stranger, which unpolished nations never devised; and which the
inhabitants of Britain never generally enjoyed from the final departure of the Roman legions,
till the last century, when mile-stones were again erected along our principal turnpike roads.
The unlearned visitor, it is confessed, will be apt to view, with some degree of disappointment,
the object of which we are speaking, and about which much busy conjecture, and learned antiquarian
research has been employed; for indeed, its appearance is neither singular nor striking, the
engraving being but slight, and the letters rudely formed.  But the ingenious observer will
esteem it a valuable curiosity; not only because it clears up the long doubted question, whether
the RATAE of Antoninus's Itinerary was the present Leicester, but because it is one of those
objects which assist the reflecting mind in connecting the past with the present; and, by confirming
from sensible evidence the records of history, give greater weight and effect to the lessons
she may teach.

The situation in which this stone is at present placed, has often been thought improper; for
it is undoubtedly exposed to injuries from the wantonness of play, and is so little conspicuous
from its place in the obelisk, that nothing appears necessarily to attract the attention of
the stranger.  A situation more private, though not wholly so, would be more proper; such a
one as the garden of the Infirmary would afford: it would there have all the publicity the
curious could wish, and all the security the antiquary could desire.

Our visitor, continuing his walk along this street, which, as he probably will know, is on
the great road from the metropolis to the north-west part of the kingdom, arrives at a scene
of busy traffic.  Here, among numbers of newly-erected dwellings (proofs of the increasing
population of the town) is the public and principal wharf on the navigable canal, near which
is an iron foundery.  This canal was formed, in consequence of a bill passed in 1791, for the
purpose of opening a communication with the Loughborough canal, and through that, with the
various navigations, united to the Trent.  The line of the canal from Leicester to Loughborough
is near sixteen miles in extent, and serves to supply Leicester with coal, lime, and the greater
part of all the other heavy articles, which the consumption of a place, containing sixteen
thousand inhabitants, requires.

The rates of tonnage, according to the act, from Loughborough to Leicester, are--

For coals                1s. 2d. per ton. Iron, timber, &c.        2s. 6d.

Quantity of the articles brought by this canal:

                                                          tons
Coal annually consumed in Leicester and its vicinity      35,000
Ditto forwarded to other canals                           18,000
Merchandize for Leicester                                 4,000
Ditto sent down (chiefly wool)                            1,600

Thus, whether we consider the saving of corn, &c. consumed by the horses employed in land carriage,
the comparative cheapness of the conveyance, or the improved state of our roads, relieved from
such heavy weights, it must be acknowledged that this canal adds more than might have been
expected to the convenience of Leicester, and the greater part of its county.  Indeed, these
water-roads, as navigable canals may be termed, reflect the greatest honour on the ingenuity
of man, exemplified in their formation, and prove most strikingly to the thinking mind, how
boundless are the advantages of civilized life, and how inviolable the security afforded to
property by laws, wisely framed and judiciously enforced.

The view from this spot, across the Abbey Meadow, extending on the opposite side of the canal,
with the ruins of the Devonshire mansion, commonly termed the Abbey, from its being the scite
of St. Mary de Pratis, will, by most visitors, be considered, at least, as very pleasing; but
as we mean to conduct our traveller to that place, we shall, at present, forbear to particularize
it.

We shall immediately, along a lane, called Arch-deacon's Lane, about the middle of which is
a Meeting house, with a small burial ground, belonging to the General Baptists, guide our stranger
to

ST. MARGARET'S CHURCH.

This structure is rendered venerable by its tower, whose pinnacles and trefoil-work, with the
niche, or tabernacle, on the corner of the south wall of the church, would have even shown
it, had not its date been confirmed by Bishop Alnwicke's register, 1441, to have been the work
of the era of the regular gothic.  From this tower, a ring of ten bells, well known for their
excellence, sound in frequent peals of harmony along the meadow and river below.

This, when the other churches of Leicester were given to the abbey by Robert Bossu, was annexed
as a prebend to the cathedral of Lincoln, by the bishops of that diocese to whom it then belonged.
The right of presentation is vested in the person holding the prebend, and the parish, with
the neighbouring dependent parish of Knighton, is exempted from the jurisdiction of the Arch-deacon
of Leicester.  The inside of the church is handsome; the nave and side aisles are supported
by gothic arches, whose beauty and symmetry are not concealed by aukward galleries.  The organ
was erected by the parishioners in 1773.

Several elegant modern monuments adorn the walls, and in the north aisle is the alabaster tomb
of Bishop Penny, many years abbot of the neighbouring monastery of St Mary de Pratis.  In the
church-yard the military trophies of a black tomb commemorate Andrew Lord Rollo.  This nobleman
was an instance of the attraction which a martial life affords to an elevated mind, for he
entered the service at the age of forty, when generally the habits and inclinations of life
are so fixed, as scarcely to admit any change.  After many years of severe and dangerous services,
he died at Leicester, as the inscription informs us, on his way to Bristol, for the recovery
of his health, 1765.

It is to be observed of this and the other churches in this place, that the entrance is by
a descent of several steps; a circumstance proving incontestibly, that the ground without has
been considerably raised, since no reason could induce the founders of these sacred edifices
to sink the floors beyond the natural level; nor is the surface of the church-yards alone,
higher than the floors of the churches; so caused by the continued interment of the dead: but
the general level of the pavements of the streets is also higher; from which it must be inferred,
that the ground on which the present houses are built has been every where raised, and that
very considerably.  That the rubbish produced by buildings, and particularly the consumption
of fuel, should produce this effect, is what any one may readily believe; and the Bishop of
Llandaff calculates in his Chemical Essays, that the quantity of coal consumed annually in
London, would raise an area of ten miles square, a full inch.

But notwithstanding it may safely be affirmed that a much greater quantity of fuel is at present
consumed, and more rubbish produced annually in Leicester, than at any other period whatever,
yet the seeming paradox may easily be proved, that little, if any alteration in the level of
the town is made now.  For the demand of all the refuse of the yards for the purposes of agriculture,
and the ordinary attention paid to sweeping the streets, prevent any accumulation of soil:
the change of level then, of which our churches afford such indubitable proofs, can only have
taken place when the streets were unpaved, and made the receptacle of every kind of offal from
the houses; and when the yards, uncleared for the purposes of improved agriculture, were choaked
by accumulated filth; the whole almost ever yielding in abundance those noxious steams, the
loathsome parent of pestilences, which, in former days, frequently proved the scourges of our
larger towns, and too often spread their contagion to the villages.  Hence the entrance into
our churches, among other good sentiments, may excite in the reflective mind a gratitude for
the improved comforts the inhabitants of large towns now enjoy; and the same circumstances
may also call forth the exertions of benevolence to promote still greater cleanliness, and
to remove from the habitations of man those effects of filthiness, which, in proportion to
their extent, are always offensive, and sometimes fatal.

Westward from this church-yard, extends a street strait and wide, but meanly built, called

SANVY-GATE.

Here nothing can be traced worthy of observation, except the etymologist stops to glean the
remark that Sanvy is derived from sancta via, the antient name of the street, so denominated
from the solemn procession that passed through it on Whitsun Monday, in its way from St. Mary's
to St. Margaret's.  In this procession the image of the Virgin was carried under a canopy,
with an attendant minstrel and harp, accompanied by representatives of the twelve apostles,
each denoted by the name of the sacred character he personated, written on parchment, fixed
to his bonnet; these were followed by persons bearing banners, and the virgins of the parish.
Among other oblations they presented in St. Margaret's Church two pair of gloves; one for the
Deity, and one for St. Thomas of India.

The stranger, having visited St. Margaret's Church, may proceed up the

CHURCH-GATE,

about the middle of which he will pass through an area of about an acre and a half, the property
of Sir Nigel Gresley, Bart. now used as a wood yard; but formerly given by Queen Elizabeth
to the freemen of Leicester, for the practice of public sports, and especially archery; whence,
from the butts, or shooting marks erected in it, it is called Butt-close.

There is good reason to believe that plots of ground were once destined to the like purposes
in almost every village, and butts erected for the practice of that art, to which several of
the most important victories of the English were certainly owing.  The use of the arbalest,
or cross-bow, was certainly very antient in Europe, and was the weapon that proved fatal to
Harold at the battle of Hastings: but the long bow was not familiar to the English, or, perhaps,
not known in Europe, till the return of Edward the First from the Holy Land, where he became
sensible of its superior advantages from his conflicts with the Saracens.

From this period till the time of Charles the First, frequent orders were issued by the kings,
and acts of parliament were passed, enforcing and regulating the exercise of the long bow.
Persons of all ages, from seven years old and upwards, were obliged by penalties to appear
at stated times, each with his bow of a length equal to his own height, and, at least, a brace
of arrows, to try his skill and strength before the butts near their respective places of residence;
and by a statute of Henry the Eighth, no one under twenty-four was allowed to shoot at any
mark, at a less distance than eleven score, or 220 yards, a distance of greater length than
our Butt-close is at present; yet it is certain that the adjoining orchard once formed part
of it, and other encroachments may have been made on it, probably at the north end.

