  His cheek was blanch'd, but beautiful and soft, each curling tress
  Wav'd round the harp, o'er which he bent with zephyrine caress;
  And as that lyrist sat all lorn, upon the silv'ry stream,
  The music of his harp was as the music of a dream,
  Most mournfully delicious, like those tones that wound the heart,
  Yet soothe it, when it cherishes the griefs that ne'er depart.

  "O Neck! O water-spirit! demon, delicate, and fair!"
  The young twain cried, who heard his lay, "why art thou harping there?
  Thine airy form is drooping, Neck! thy cheek is pale with dree,
  And torrents shouldst thou weep, poor fay, no Saviour lives for thee!"
  All mournful look'd the elflet then, and sobbing, cast aside
  His harp, and with a piteous wail, sunk fathoms in the tide.

  Keen sorrow seiz'd those gentle youths, who'd given cureless pain--
  In haste they sought their priestly sire, in haste return'd again;
  Return'd to view the elf enthron'd in waters as before,
  Whose music now was sighs, whose tears gush'd e'en from his heart's core.
  "Why weeping, Neck? look up, and clear those tearful eyes of blue--
  Our father bids us say, that thy Redeemer liveth too!"

  Oh, beautiful! blest words! they sooth'd the Nikkar's anguish'd breast,
  As breezy, angel-whisperings lull holy ones to rest.
  He seiz'd his harp--its airy strings, beneath a master hand,
  Woke melodies, too, too divine for earth or elfin land;
  He rais'd his glad, rich voice in song, and sinking saw the sun,
  Ere in that hymn of love he paus'd, for Paradise begun!
                                                   M.L.B.

    [7] "The Neck, a water-spirit, answering, in Sweden, &c. to the
        Scottish kelpie, as to its place of abode; but we believe its
        character is not so mischievous. The northern idea, that all
        fairies, demons, &c. who resided in this world, were spirits out
        of the pale of salvation, is very ancient. Mr. Keightley assures
        us, that the legend of which these stanzas attempt a
        versification, is extremely popular in Sweden."--Vide "Fairy
        Mythology."

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAN FOR SNUFF TAKERS TO PAY OFF THE NATIONAL DEBT.

(For the Mirror.)

As snuff-taking seems to increase, the following plan might be adopted by the patrons of that
art, to ease John Bull of his weight, and make him feel as light and easy, as if he had taken
a pinch of the "Prince Regent's Mixture.'"

Lord Stanhope says, "Every professed, inveterate, and incurable snuff-taker, at a moderate
computation, takes one pinch in ten minutes. Every pinch, with the agreeable ceremony of blowing
and wiping the nose, and other incidental circumstances, consumes a minute and a half. One
minute and a half out of every ten, allowing sixteen hours and a half to a snuff-taking day,
amounts to two hours and twenty-four minutes out of every natural day, or one day out of every
ten. One day out of every ten amounts to thirty-six days and a half in a-year. Hence, if we
suppose the practice to be persisted in forty years, two entire years of the snuff-taker's
life will be dedicated to tickling his nose, and two more to blowing it. The expense of snuff,
snuff-boxes, and handkerchiefs, will be the subject of a second essay, in which it will appear,
that this luxury encroaches as much on the income of the snuff-taker as it does on his time;
and that by a proper application of the time and money thus lost to the public, a fund might
be constituted for the discharge of the national debt."

Queries.--Is not this subject worthy the attention of the finance committee? Might not the
cigar gentlemen add to the discharge of the debt?

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DIVIDED HOUSEHOLD.

(For the Mirror.)

  Our hearth--we hear its music now--to us a bower and home;
  When will its lustre in our souls with Spring's young freshness come?
  Sweet faces beam'd around it then, and cherub lips did weave
  Their clear Hosannas in the glow that ting'd the skies at eve!

  Oh, lonely is our forest stream, and bare the woodland tree,
  And whose sunny wreath of leaves the cuckoo carolled free;
  The pilgrim passeth by our cot--no hand shall greet him there--
  The household is divided now, and mute the evening pray'r!

  Amid green walks and fringed slopes, still gleams the village pond.
  And see, a hoar and sacred pile, the old church peers beyond;
  And there we deem'd it bliss to gaze upon the Sabbath skies,--
  Gold as our sister's clustering hair, and blue as her meek eyes.

  Our home--when will these eyes, now dimm'd with frequent weeping, see
  The infant's pure and rosy ark, the stripling's sanctuary?
  When will these throbbing hearts grow calm around its lighted hearth?--
  Quench'd is the fire within its walls, and hush'd the voice of mirth!

  The haunts--they are forsaken now--where our companions play'd;
  We see their silken ringlets glow amid the moonlight glade;
  We hear their voices floating up like pæan songs divine;
  Their path is o'er the violet-beds beneath the springing vine!

  Restore, sweet spirit of our home! our native hearth restore--
  Why are our bosoms desolate, our summer rambles o'er?
  Let thy mild light on us be pour'd--our raptures kindle up,
  And with a portion of thy bliss illume the household cup.

  Yet mourn not, wanderers--onto you a thrilling hope is given,
  A tabernacle unconfin'd, an endless home in heaven!
  And though ye are divided now, ye shall be made as one
  In Eden, beauteous as the skies that o'er your childhood shone!

Deal.

REGINALD AUGUSTINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CHAPTER ON KISSING.

BY A PROFESSOR OF THE ART.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Away with your fictions of flimsy romance,
    Those tissues of falsehood which folly has wove;
  Give me the mild gleam of the soul breathing glance,
    And the rapture which dwells in the first kiss of love."
                                        BYRON.

There is no national custom so universally and so justly honoured with esteem and respect,
"winning golden opinions from all sorts of people," as kissing. Generally speaking, we discover
that a usage which finds favour in the eyes of the vulgar, is despised and detested by the
educated, the refined, and the proud; but this elegant practice forms a brilliant exception
to a rule otherwise tolerably absolute. Kissing possesses infinite claims to our love, claims
which no other custom in the wide world can even pretend to advance. Kissing is an endearing,
affectionate, ancient, rational, and national mode of displaying the thousand glowing emotions
of the soul;--it is traced back by some as far as the termination of the siege of Troy, for
say they, "Upon the return of the Grecian warriors, their wives met them, and joined their
lips together with joy." There are some, however, who give the honour of having invented kissing
to Rouix, or Rowena, the daughter of Hengist, the Saxon; a Dutch historian tells us, she, "pressed
the beaker with her lipkens (little lips,) and saluted the amorous Vortigern with a husgin
(little kiss,)" and this latter authority we ourselves feel most inclined to rely on; deeply
anxious to secure to our fair countrywomen the honour of having invented this delightful art.

Numberless are the authors who have written and spoken with rapture on English kissing.

"The women of England," says Polydore Virgil, "not only salute their relations with a kiss,
but all persons promiscuously; and this ceremony they repeat, gently touching them with their
lips, not only with grace, but without the least immodesty. Such, however, as are of the blood-royal
do not kiss their inferiors, but offer the back of the hand, as men do, by way of saluting
each other."

Erasmus too--the grave, the phlegmatic Erasmus, melts into love and playful thoughts, when
he thinks of kisses--"Did you but know, my Faustus," he writes to one of his friends, "the
pleasures which England affords, you would fly here on winged feet, and if your gout would
not allow you, you would wish yourself a Dædalus. To mention to you one among many things,
here are nymphs of the loveliest looks, good humoured, and whom you would prefer even to your
favourite Muses. Here also prevails a custom never enough to be commended, that wherever you
come, every one receives you with a kiss, and when you take your leave, every one gives you
a kiss; when you return, kisses again meet you. If any one leaves you they give you a kiss;
if you meet any one, the first salutation is a kiss; in short, wherever you go, kisses every
where abound; which, my Faustus, did you once taste how very sweet and how very fragrant they
are, you would not, like Solon, wish for ten years exile in England, but would desire to spend
there the whole of your life."

Oh what miracles have been wrought by a kiss! Philosophers, stoics, hermits, and misers have
become men of the world, of taste, and of generosity; idiots have become wise; and, truth to
tell, wise men idiots--warriors have turned cowards and cowards brave--statesmen have become
poets, and political economists sensible men. Oh, wonderful art, which can produce such strange
effects! to thee, the magic powers of steam seem commonplace and tedious; the wizard may break
his rod in despair, and the king his sceptre, for thou canst effect in a moment what they may
vainly labour years to accomplish. Well may the poet celebrate thy praises in words that breathe
and thoughts that burn; well may the minstrel fire with sudden inspiration and strike the lute
with rapture when he thinks of thee; well might the knight of bygone times brave every danger
when thou wert his bright reward; well might Vortigern resign his kingdom, or Mark Antony the
world, when it was thee that tempted. Long, long, may England be praised for her prevalence
of this divine custom! Long may British women be as celebrated for the fragrance of their kisses,
as they ever were, and ever will be for their virtue and their beauty.

CHILDE WILFUL.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

"COMPANION TO THE THEATRES."

An inveterate play-goer announces a little manual under this title, for publication in a few
days. Such a work, if well executed, will be very acceptable to the amateur and visitor, as
well as attractive to the general reader. The outline or plan looks well, and next week we
may probably give our readers some idea of its execution.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOYAGE TO INDIA.

The generality of our society on board was respectable, and some of its members were men of
education and talent. Excepting that there was no lady of the party, it was composed of the
usual materials to be found at the cuddy-table of an outward bound Indiaman. First, there was
a puisne judge, intrenched in all the dignity of a dispenser of law to his majesty's loving
subjects beyond the Cape, with a Don't tell me kind of face, a magisterial air, and dictatorial
manner, ever more ready to lay down the law, than to lay down the lawyer. Then, there was a
general officer appointed to the staff in India, in consideration of his services on Wimbledon
Common and at the Horse Guards, proceeding to teach the art military to the Indian army--a
man of gentlemanly but rather pompous manners; who, considering his simple nod equivalent to
the bows of half a dozen subordinates, could never swallow a glass of wine at dinner without
lumping at least that number of officers or civilians in the invitation to join him, while
his aid-de-camp practised the same airs among the cadets. Then, there was a proportion of civilians
and Indian officers returning from furlough or sick certificate, with patched-up livers, and
lank countenances, from which two winters of their native climate had extracted only just sufficient
sunbeams to leave them of a dirty lemon colour. Next, there were a few officers belonging to
detachments of king's troops proceeding to join their regiments in India, looking, of course,
with some degree of contempt on their brethren in arms, whose rank was bounded by the longitude
of the Cape; but condescending to patronize some of the most gentlemanly of the cadets. These,
with a free mariner, and no inconsiderable sprinkling of writers, cadets, and assistant-surgeons,
together with the officers of the ship, who dined at the captain's table, formed a party of
about twenty-five.--Twelve Years' Military Adventure.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDUCATION IN DENMARK.

Much pains has lately been taken in Denmark to promote the means of elementary education, and
Lancasterian schools have been generally established throughout the country. We have now before
us the Report made to the king by the Chevalier Abrahamson, of the progress, prospects, and
present state of the schools for mutual instruction in Denmark, to the 28th of January, 1828,
by which it appears, that 2,371 schools for mutual instruction have been established, and are
in full progress, in the different districts of the kingdom and in the army.--North American
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECORDS.

Some faint idea of the bulk of our English records may be obtained, by adverting to the fact,
that a single statute, the Land Tax Commissioners' Act, passed in the first year of the reign
of his present majesty, measures, when unrolled, upwards of nine hundred feet, or nearly twice
the length of St. Paul's Cathedral within the walls; and if it ever should become necessary
to consult the fearful volume, an able-bodied man must be employed during three hours in coiling
and uncoiling its monstrous folds. Should our law manufactory go on at this rate, and we do
not anticipate any interruption in its progress, we may soon be able to belt the round globe
with parchment. When, to the solemn acts of legislature, we add the showers of petitions, which
lie (and in more senses than one) upon the table, every night of the session; the bills, which,
at the end of every term, are piled in stacks, under the parental custody of our good friends,
the Six Clerks in Chancery; and the innumerable membranes, which, at every hour of the day,
are transmitted to the gloomy dens and recesses of the different courts of common-law and of
criminal jurisdiction throughout the kingdom, we are afraid that there are many who may think
that the time is fast approaching for performing the operation which Hugh Peters recommended
as "A good work for a good Magistrate." This learned person, it will be recollected, exhorted
the commonwealth men to destroy all the muniments in the Tower--a proposal which Prynne considers
as an act inferior only in atrocity to his participation in the murder of Charles I., and we
should not be surprised if some zealous reformer were to maintain, that a general conflagration
of these documents would be the most essential benefit that could be conferred upon the realm.--Quarterly
Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENCYCLOPÆDIAS.

In the German universities an extensive branch of lectures is formed by the Encyclopædias of
the various sciences. Encyclopædia originally implied the complete course or circle of a liberal
education in science and art, as pursued by the young men of Greece; namely, gymnastics, a
cultivated taste for their own classics, music, arithmetic, and geometry. European writers
give the name of encyclopædia, in the widest scientific sense, to the whole round or empire
of human knowledge, arranged in systematic or alphabetic order; whereas the Greek imports but
practical school knowledge. The literature of the former is voluminous beyond description,
it having been cultivated from the beginning of the middle ages to the present day. Different
from either of them is the encyclopædia of the German universities; this is an introduction
into the several arts and sciences, showing the nature of each, its extent, utility, relation
to other studies and to practical life, the best method of pursuing it, and the sources from
whence the knowledge of it is to be derived. An introduction of this compass is, however, with
greater propriety styled encyclopædia and methodology. Thus, we hear of separate lectures on
encyclopædias and methodologies of divinity, jurisprudence, medicine, philosophy, mathematical
sciences, physical science, the fine arts, and philology. Manuals and lectures of this kind
are exceedingly useful for those who are commencing a course of professional study. For "the
best way to learn any science," says Watts, "is to begin with a regular system, or a short
and plain scheme of that science, well drawn up into a narrow compass."--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERSIAN CAVALIER.

The following sketch of a Persian cavalier has the richness and freshness of one of Heber's,
or Morier's or Sir John Malcolm's pages:--"He was a man of goodly stature, and powerful frame;
his countenance, hard, strongly marked, and furnished with a thick, black beard, bore testimony
of exposure to many a blast, but it still preserved a prepossessing expression of good humour
and benevolence. His turban, which was formed of a cashmere shawl, sorely tached and torn,
and twisted here and there with small steel chains, according to the fashion of the time, was
wound around a red cloth cap, that rose in four peaks high above the head. His oemah, or riding
coat, of crimson cloth much stained and faded, opening at the bosom, showed the links of a
coat of mail which he wore below; a yellow shawl formed his girdle; his huge shulwars, or riding
trousers, of thick, fawn-coloured Kerman woollen-stuff, fell in folds over the large red leather
boots in which his legs were cased: by his side hung a crooked scymetar in a black leather
scabbard, and from the holsters of his saddle peeped out the butt ends of a pair of pistols;
weapons of which I then knew not the use, any more than of the matchlock which was slung at
his back. He was mounted on a powerful but jaded horse, and appeared to have already travelled
far."--Kuzzilbash.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORATORY

The national glory of Great Britain rests, in no small degree, on the refined taste and classical
education of her politicians; and the portion of her oratory acknowledged to be the most energetic,
bears the greatest resemblance to the spirit of Demosthenes.--North American Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRESHAM COLLEGE.[8]

The City of London could not do a more fitting thing than to convert the Gresham lectureships
into fourteen scholarships for King's College, retaining the name and reserving the right of
presentation. A bounty which is at present useless would thus be rendered efficient, and to
the very end which was intended by Gresham himself. An act of parliament would be necessary;
and the annexations would of course take place as the lectureships became vacant.--Quarterly Rev.

    [8] See MIRROR, vol. xii. page 34.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Germany, seminaries for the education of popular teachers, are conducted by distinguished
divines of each state, who, for the most part, reside in the capital, and are the same persons
who examine each clergyman three times before his ordination. Unless a candidate can give evidence
of his ability, and of, at least, a two years' stay in those popular Institutions where religious
instruction is the main object, he is not allowed to teach any branch of knowledge whatever.--Russell's
Tour in Germany.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUNGO PARK.

Captain Clapperton being near that part of the Quorra, where Mungo Park perished, our traveller
thought he might get some information of this melancholy event. The head man's story is this:--"That
the boat stuck fast between two rocks; that the people in it laid out four anchors a-head;
that the water falls down with great rapidity from the rocks, and that the white men, in attempting
to get on shore, were drowned; that crowds of people went to look at them, but the white men
did not shoot at them as I had heard; that the natives were too much frightened either to shoot
at them or to assist them; that there were found a great many things in the boat, books and
riches, which the Sultan of Boussa has got; that beef cut in slices and salted was in great
plenty in the boat; that the people of Boussa who had eaten of it all died, because it was
human flesh, and that they knew we white men eat human flesh. I was indebted to the messenger
of Yarro for a defence, who told the narrator that I was much more nice in my eating than his
countrymen were. But it was with some difficulty I could persuade him that if his story was
true, it was the people's own fears that had killed them; that the meat was good beef or mutton:
that I had eaten more goats' flesh since I had been in this country than ever I had done in
my life; that in England we eat nothing but fowls, beef, and mutton."--Clapperton's Travels.

       *       *       *       *       *

SILK.

We find in a statement of the raw silk imported into England, from all parts of the world,
that in 1814, it amounted to one million, six hundred and thirty-four thousand, five hundred
and one pounds; and in 1824, to three millions, three hundred and eighty-two thousand, three
hundred and fifty-seven.[9] Italy, which is not better situated in regard to the culture of
silk than a large portion of the United States, furnishes to the English fabrics about eight
hundred thousand pounds' weight. The Bengal silk is complained of by the British manufacturers,
on account of its defective preparation; by bestowing more care on his produce, the American
cultivator could have in England the advantage over the British East Indies. It is a fact well
worthy of notice, and the accuracy of which seems warranted by its having been brought before
a Committee of both Houses of Parliament, that the labour in preparing new silk affords much
more employment to the country producing it, than any other raw material. It appears from an
official document, that the value of the imports of raw silk into France, during the year 1824,
amounted to thirty seven millions, one hundred and forty-nine thousand, nine hundred and sixty
francs.--North American Review.

    [9] The official values of these imports are £703,009 and £1,464,994.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHINESE NOVELS.

A union of three persons, cemented by a conformity of taste and character, constitutes, in
the opinion of the Chinese, the perfection of earthly happiness, a sort of ideal bliss, reserved
by heaven for peculiar favourites as a suitable reward for their talent and virtue. Looking
at the subject under this point of view, their novel-writers not unfrequently arrange matters
so as to secure this double felicity to their heroes at the close of the work; and a catastrophe
of this kind is regarded as the most satisfactory that can be employed. Without exposing ourselves
to the danger incurred by one of the German divines, who was nearly torn to pieces by the mob
of Stockholm for defending polygamy, we may venture to remark, that for the mere purposes of
art, this system certainly possesses very great advantages. It furnishes the novel-writer with
an easy method of giving general satisfaction to all his characters, at the end of the tale,
without recurring to the fatal though convenient intervention of consumption and suicide, with
us the only resources, when there happens to be a heroine too many. What floods of tears would
not the Chinese method have spared to the high-minded Corinna, to the interesting and poetical
Clementina! From what bitter pangs would it not have relieved the irresolute Oswald, perhaps
even the virtuous Grandison himself! The Chinese are entitled to the honour of having invented
the domestic and historical novel several centuries before they were introduced in Europe.
Fables, tales of supernatural events, and epic poems, belong to the infancy of nations; but
the real novel is the product of a later period in the progress of society, when men are led
to reflect upon the incidents of domestic life, the movement of the passions, the analysis
of sentiment, and the conflicts of adverse interests and opinions.--Preface to a French Translation
of a Chinese Novel.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERO OF A CHINESE NOVEL.

There came out a youth of about fifteen or sixteen years of age, dressed in a violet robe with
a light cap on his head. His vermilion lips, brilliant white teeth, and arched eye-brows gave
him the air of a charming girl. So graceful and airy are his movements, that one might well
ask, whether he be mortal or a heavenly spirit. He looks like a sylph formed of the essence
of flowers, or a soul descended from the moon. Is it indeed a youth who has come out to divert
himself, or is it a sweet perfume from the inner apartment?--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEES.

It has been the custom, from the earliest ages, to rub the inside of the hive with a handful
of salt and clover, or some other grass or sweet-scented herb, previously to the swarm's being
put in the hive. We have seen no advantage in this; on the contrary, it gives a great deal
of unnecessary labour to the bees, as they will be compelled to remove every particle of foreign
matter from the hive before they begin to work. A clean, cool hive, free from any peculiar
smell or mustiness, will be acceptable to the bees; and the more closely the hive is joined
together, the less labour will the insects have, whose first care it is to stop up every crevice,
that light and air may be excluded. We must not omit to reprehend, as utterly useless, the
vile practice of making an astounding noise, with tin pans and kettles, when the bees are swarming.
It may have originated in some ancient superstition, or it may have been the signal to call
aid from the fields, to assist in the hiving. If harmless it is unnecessary; and everything
that tends to encumber the management of bees should be avoided.--American Farmer's Manual.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVENT GARDEN MARKET.

