Contrast the case of Mr. GLADSTONE, from whom anyone could draw a postcard and most people
a chip of some recently-felled tree, and who is in my mind wonderful and supreme by reason
of two inventions which, though no one would ever guess them to be the result of a Prime Minister's
cogitations, deserve the widest fame. Of these one was the product of his unaided genius; the
other the result of the collaboration with his wife.

Let us begin with the individual triumph.

Everyone who has ever stayed under anyone else's roof, from a dine-and-sleep at Windsor Castle
to a week in lovely Lucerne, has been confronted, when packing-up time arrived, with the problem
of the sponge. No matter how muscular the fingers that wring this article, no matter how thick
and costly the rubbered receptacle that holds it, there is always the chance of dampness communicating
itself to other things in the bag. Isn't there?

How so to squeeze the sponge as to drive out the last drop of moisture was the problem before
the massive intellect of the Grand Old Man. Need I say that he solved it? His method, as he
himself in his unselfish way, told one of the diarists, possibly Sir M.E. GRANT-DUFF, possibly
Mr. G.W.E. RUSSELL--I forget whom--was to wrap up the sponge in a bath-towel and jump on it.
Here, for the historical painter, is a theme indeed--something worth all the ordinary dull
occasions which provoke his talented if somewhat staid brush: the great Liberal statesman,
the promoter of Home Rule, the author of The Impregnable Rock of Holy Scripture, leaping upon
the bath-towel that held his sponge. But no historical painter could do justice to such a scene.
It needs the movies.

Those of us then who dry our sponges in this way--and I am a fervent devotee--owe the inventor
a meed of praise. And equally those of us who put into our hot water bottles at night hot tea
instead of hot water (as I never have done and never mean to do), so that, waking in the small
hours, we may yet not be without refreshment, owe a meed of praise to the same inspired innovator,
for, if the chroniclers are correct, it was Mrs. GLADSTONE'S habit to retire to rest with a
bottle thus nutritiously filled, which would be ready for her great man on his return from
the House weary and athirst.

Here we see the difference between Liberal Premiers. For what has Mr. ASQUITH done towards
the solution of domestic problems? Who can name a thing? Has he devised a collar stud that
cannot be lost? Has he hit upon a way instantly to stop a shaving cut from bleeding? Has he
contrived a taxi window that will open when shut or shut when open? No. In all these years
he has spared no time for any inventions.

No wonder then that he was found wanting and forced to resign.

       *       *       *       *       *

    A Scot among the Cynics.

    "The railway fares are being raised, we are told, to stop pleasure
    travelling, but it can hardly be imagined that a munition worker going
    home to spend his week-end with his family is bent on pleasure."--
    Glasgow Evening News.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Beautiful set of civic cat; very large stole and muff; accept
    £12."--The Lady.

As DICK WHITTINGTON'S mascot is the only civic cat known to history we think the relic should
be secured for the Guildhall Museum.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Simply as a citizen and as a non-party man, I want to say that Mr.
    Asquith has my affection and respect--and that is the highest guerdon
    that any statesman can have."--Extract from Letter in Yorkshire
    Paper.

We know now why Mr. ASQUITH refused a peerage. He did not want to vex his modest admirer.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "At Caxton Hall the conference was resumed of municipal authorities
    interested in the conversation of old fruit, sardine and salmon
    tins."--Birmingham Daily Mail.

We ourselves always listen with pleasure to their talk. It has at once a fruity and a fishy
flavour.

       *       *       *       *       *

WARS OF THE PAST.

(As recorded in the Press of the period.)

VI.

From "The Athens Advertiser and Piræus Post."

MACEDONIA'S ARMY.

THE FAMOUS PHALANX.

 (By our Military Expert.)

The Macedonian Army has recently undergone an entire reconstruction at the hands of KING PHILIP.
It is now organised on a national and territorial basis and is divided into infantry and cavalry.
The cavalry predominates and is therefore the stronger arm. The unit of cavalry is the squadron,
of infantry the battalion. (It is of the utmost interest to note that there are two battalions
in a regiment, each about fifteen hundred strong).

KING PHILIP, it will be remembered, received his military education in the school of EPAMINONDAS,
who, as is well known, revolutionised the Higher Thought of every Higher Command by the discovery
and application of a single tactical fact--namely, that the chances of A being able to give
B a stronger push than B can give him are in direct ratio to the numerical superiority of A
over B. It follows, then, that, faced with a sufficient superiority, B must retire, and the
initiative then rests with the side that possesses it.

In pursuance of this tactical ideal EPAMINONDAS argued that the old method of winning battles,
which was that A should exercise superior force against every point of B's line (or body),
required that A should be bigger than B, buskin for buskin and brisket for brisket. But since
it is sufficient, while "refusing" the rest of one's own body (or line), to bring an overwhelming
force to bear on the point of a person's jaw, in order to discomfit him, so in a battle a numerically
inferior A, by concentrating on a vital point of numerically superior B, can gain a local numerical
superiority which will enable him to rout B utterly. (This is always supposing that B is not
doing the same thing himself on the other wing, in which case each army would miss the other
altogether--a condition of things into which the military art does not care to follow them).

Hence the phalanx or "preponderating mass formation." The Macedonian development of this depends
(to reduce the matter to the simple algebraical formula to which all military problems are
susceptible) on the fact that if x equals the greatest efficiency of an army, and the rooted
square of stability to the nth rank equals the phalanx, then the rooted square of stability
to the nth rank equals x minus the tangential curve of velocity of mobility. This should be
plain even to the amateur student of tactics. Blending almost a military expert's appreciation
of this cardinal doctrine with his natural selfishness as a leader of cavalry, PHILIP has given
to this, the mobile arm, much of the striking power of the original phalanx. This is now placed
in the centre, its business being mainly to force a salient in the enemy's line, the two resultant
enclaves of which can then be shattered (at their re-entrants) by the cavalry squadrons, hurled
forward on both phalanks. It should be noted, as a brilliant example of PHILIP'S staff work,
that in the Macedonian Army, for the avoidance of confusion in the field, "phalanks" is now
spelt "flanks."

To the intelligent student who has followed me thus far in these articles it should not be
necessary to explain again the terms "enclave," "salient," and "re-entrant." "Tactical" is
a term used when one is not using the term "strategical," and vice versâ.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In the words of Bacon, it should be 'read, marked, learned and
    inwardly digested.'"--Financial Paper.

Our gay contemporary does not tell us whether it was before or after completing the works usually
attributed to SHAKSPEARE that BACON compiled the Book of Common Prayer.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FLAPPER.

[Dr. ARTHUR SHADWELL, in the January Nineteenth Century, in his article on "Ordeal by Fire,"
after denouncing idlers and loafers and shirkers, falls foul "above all" of the young girls
called flappers, "with high heels, skirts up to their knees and blouses open to the diaphragm,
painted, powdered, self-conscious, ogling: 'Allus adallacked and dizened oot and a 'unting
arter the men.'"]

  Good Dr. ARTHUR SHADWELL, who lends lustre to a name
  Which DRYDEN in his satires oft endeavoured to defame,
  Has lately been discussing in a high-class magazine
  The trials that confront us in the year Nineteen Seventeen.

  He is not a smooth-tongued prophet; no, he takes a serious view;
  We must make tremendous efforts if we're going to win through;
  And though he's not unhopeful of the issue of the fray
  He finds abundant causes for misgiving and dismay.

  Our optimistic journals his exasperation fire,
  And the idlers and the loafers stimulate his righteous ire;
  But it is the flapper chiefly that in his gizzard sticks,
  And he's down upon her failings like a waggon-load of bricks.

  She's ubiquitous in theatres, in rail and 'bus and tram,
  She wears her "blouses open down to the diaphragm,"
  And, instead of realising what our men are fighting for,
  She's an orgiastic nuisance who in fact enjoys the War.

  It's a strenuous indictment of our petticoated youth
  And contains a large substratum of unpalatable truth;
  Our women have been splendid, but the Sun himself has specks,
  And the flapper can't be reckoned as a credit to her sex.

  Still it needs to be remembered, to extenuate her crimes,
  That these flappers have not always had the very best of times;
  And the life that now she's leading, with no Mentors to restrain,
  Is decidedly unhinging to an undeveloped brain.

  Then again we only see her when she's out for play or meals,
  And distresses the fastidious by her gestures and her squeals,
  But she is not always idle or a decorative drone,
  And if she wastes her wages, well, she wastes what is her own.

  Still to say that she's heroic, as some scribes of late have said,
  Is unkind as well as foolish, for it only swells her head;
  She oughtn't to be flattered, she requires to be repressed,
  Or she'll grow into a portent and a peril and a pest.

  Dr. SHADWELL to the PREMIER makes an eloquent appeal
  In firm and drastic fashion with this element to deal;
  And 'twould be a real feather in our gifted Cambrian's cap
  If he taught the peccant flapper less flamboyantly to flap.

  But, in Punch's way of thinking, 'tis for women, kind and wise,
  These neglected scattered units to enrol and mobilize,
  Their vagabond activities to curb and concentrate,
  And turn the skittish hoyden to a servant of the State.

  She's young; her eyes are dazzled by the glamour of the streets;
  She has to learn that life is not all cinemas and sweets;
  But given wholesome guidance she may rise to self-control
  And earn the right of entry on the Nation's golden Roll.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ONLY STEGGLES.

Steggles is my groom, and my crowning mercy. But for his deafness I am sure he would long since
have left the humble rank of gunner far beneath him, and the Staff might have gained a brilliant
strategist. In addition to dulness of hearing, Steggles is endowed--I should indeed be ungrateful
to use the word afflicted--with a vacuity of expression which puts rivals or antagonists off
their guard, and doubles his value during the vicissitudes of active service. What would be
handicaps to ordinary men Steggles turns to the advantage of himself, Sapphira my mare, and me.

When on the march the Battery arrives at the morass allotted to it for horse lines, I know
that all will be well with the mud-bespattered Sapphira. Steggles leaps from the waggon whereon,
in company with one of the cooks, he tours the pleasant land of France, and receives the mare.
With his toes strangely pointed out, he leads her away from the scene of labour and language,
disappearing amidst the hovels of the adjacent village. Often I never see him or obtain news
of him till next morning, when he produces Sapphira polished like a silk hat and every scrap
of metal about her sparkling. Occasionally I have tracked him to the shelter where he secretes
and waits upon Sapphira, always to find that he has discovered and occupied the best stable
in the village. The grooms of my brother-officers never learn that Steggles' vacuous expression
is the disguise of an intellect subtle, discriminating and alert, so they never trouble to
endeavour to forestall him. To find Sapphira is to find Steggles, as he always likes to spread
his blanket where she could tread on him if she wanted anything during the night.

From time to time he chooses the occasion of a night's halt on the march to indulge in a bilious
attack; but he has no other vice except an inveterate reluctance to leave off polishing my
boots when I mount. No matter how Sapphira may prance and back and sidle, he follows her round
and round with a remnant of a shirt, rubbing mud-spots off my boots in the stirrup. It is quite
useless to bellow, "That will do, Steggles!"--his ideal is the unattainable perfection, and
he persists. I have to escape by giving Sapphira the spur at the risk of knocking Steggles
into the mud, or be late in turning out.

He never gives anything, even his own performances, unqualified praise; in fact it is extremely
hard to win from him any encomium higher than "It's not too bad." Perhaps there is Scotch blood
in his veins.

I very much want to recommend him for some decoration, but the organization likely to appreciate
the most gallant of his deeds has not yet been formed--the S.P.G.P., or Society for the Preservation
of Government Property.

Steggles was once riding behind me down a valley liberally dimpled with shell-holes, further
dimples being in process of formation as we rode. I was returning from an O Pip, or Observation
Post, and Steggles was carrying a pair of my boots with a rolled puttee stuffed into each.
Suddenly I was aware that he had wheeled his horse about, and was trotting back towards the
most dimply area of the valley. Out of regard for his family, I cantered after him. He broke
into a gallop. When, after a thrilling ride, I caught him and had a little talk amongst the
dimples, it appeared that he had dropped one of the puttees, and wished to return and look
for it. This incident will, I think, demonstrate the exceptional character of the man, who
did not appear to regard himself as a hero, or to pose as a desperate farceur, or to aspire
to the post of Q.M.S., though, incredible as it may seem, the puttee in question was of the
variety G.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

To those who would learn what soldiering is like in the armies of democratic France I would
heartily commend two books recently published by Messrs. ALLEN AND UNWIN, Battles and Bivouacs,
by JACQUES ROUJON, and The Diary of a French Private, by GASTON RIOU. M. ROUJON, infantryman
of the line, was in private life a journalist on Le Figaro; M. RIOU, Red Cross orderly, a liberal
lay-theologian and writer of European reputation. The former's transliterator ("Munitions are
distributed around," writes he undismayed; and has also discovered a territory known as "Oriental
Prussia") obtrudes a little between author and reader. M. RIOU fares better; but both contrive
to give a really vivid impression of the horrors and anxieties of the early days of the War
before the tide turned at the Marne, of the flying rumours so far from the actual truth, of
the fine spirit of camaraderie in common danger, of the intimate relations between officers
and men, details, terrible or trivial, of campaigning, and, because our spirited brothers-in-arms
are not ashamed to express their innermost feelings, of the deeper emotions at work under the
surface gaieties. M. RIOU'S narrative is mainly the record of his year's captivity in a Bavarian
fort. On his way he faced the fanatical hatred and cruelty of the German civilians, of the
women especially, with a cynical fortitude. The commandant of his prison, Baron von STENGEL,
was, however, a gentleman and a brick, and did everything in his power to make the difficult
life bearable. An episode pleasant to recall is the reception of the Russian prisoners (intended
by their captors to cause dissensions) by their French comrades in misfortune. The whole record
gives an impression of fine courage and resourcefulness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very probably you are already acquainted with that restful and admirable book, Father Payne
(SMITH, ELDER), of which a new edition has just now been published. The point of this new edition
is that, in its special Preface, the genesis and authorship of the book are assigned, for the
first time on this side the Atlantic, to Mr. A.C. BENSON. And the point of the new preface
is that it entirely gives away the original edition (also printed here), in which the secret
was elaborately concealed. My wonder is, reading the book with this added knowledge, that anyone
can have at any time failed to detect in it the gently persuasive hand of the Master of Magdalene,
Cambridge. You remember, no doubt, how Father Payne (a courtesy title), having had a small
estate left to him, proceeded to turn it into the home of a secular community for young men
desirous of pursuing the literary gift, and how he financed, encouraged and generally supervised
them. Leisure, an exquisite setting, and the society of enthusiastic and personally-selected
youth--one might call the book perhaps a Tutor's Dream of the Millennium. Anyhow, Father Payne,
as shown in this volume, which is practically a record of his table-talk upon a great variety
of themes, is exactly the gentle, shrewd and idealistic philosopher whom (knowing his parentage)
one would expect. Bensonians (of the A.C. pattern) will certainly be glad to have what must
surely have been their suspicions confirmed, and to admit Father Payne to the shelves of authenticity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss DOROTHEA CONYERS has long ere this established herself as a specialist of repute in Irish
sporting tales. You will need but one look at the picture wrapper of The Financing of Fiona
(ALLEN) to see that a repetition of the same agreeable mixture awaits you within. Fiona was
a charming young woman (Irish, of course) with a rich uncle and a poor, very unattractive cousin,
who loved her for her expectations. As Fiona had no conception about money beyond the spending
of it, the uncle made a will, whose object was that she should have plenty. The suitor, however,
knowing of this, and being a naughty, rather improbable person, destroyed part of it, with
the result that Fiona was apparently left only the ancestral home and no cash to keep it up.
So she was forced to take in gentleman boarders for the hunting, and (for propriety's sake)
to invent a mythical chaperon, who lived above stairs. And, after all, she needn't have done
any such thing, because the rich uncle, in leaving her all the contents of the mansion, had
foolishly forgotten to mention a secret drawer full of Canadian securities. As for the villain,
I really hardly dare tell you the impossibly silly way in which he allowed himself to be caught
out. But of course all this melodrama is not what matters. The important thing about Miss CONYERS'
people is that (whatever their private worries) a-hunting they will go; and Fiona, financed
by her paying guests, shows in this respect as capital sport as any of her predecessors. For
the rest, I can hardly say with honesty that the story is equal to its author's best form.

       *       *       *       *       *

What I like particularly about Mr. FREDERICK NIVEN is the friendly way in which he contrives
to make his readers and himself into a family party. "We must," he writes at the beginning
of a chapter in Cinderella of Skookum Greek (NASH), "get a move on with the story, in case
you become more tired of Archer's compound fracture than he was himself." This is by no means
the only occasion on which he shows his thoughtfulness for us, and I think it very kind and
nice of him. At the same time I will ungraciously admit that the weak point of his story is
that it does not move quite fast enough. Admirable artist in psychology and atmosphere, his
plot, if you can call it a plot, is very slight. Cyrus Archer, the young American of the compound
fracture (who had my sympathy from the start because he could never remember dates), goes out
into the back of beyond for a spell before settling down to married life and a place in his
father's business, and at Skookum Creek, where he grows tomatoes and studies Indians, he meets
his Cinderella, with the result that his life has to be completely rearranged. A commonplace
tale, but there is a rare and distinct flavour about the telling of it. Mr. NIVEN'S manner
has indeed a very particular charm, over which one would take an even keener pleasure in lingering
if only he himself lingered a little less over his story.

       *       *       *       *       *

I hardly think that Madame ALBANESI has chosen quite the most appropriate name for the story
that she calls Hearts and Sweethearts (HUTCHINSON). Personally, I fancy that Suits and Lawsuits
would have come nearer the mark; because, though there is a certain proportion of love-making
in the tale, there is considerably more about going to law. One difficulty with which I fancy
the writer had to contend is due to the fact that her hero and heroine are (in a sense) the
opposing protagonists in a case of disputed succession; Jemima Frant being engaged in the attempt
to turn out Sir John Norminster from his estates and establish the claim to them of her dead
sister's child. Naturally, therefore, till this is settled their opportunities for the tender
passion are, to put it very gently, restricted. But of course--well, a novel with such a title
is hardly likely to leave anybody of importance unmarried at the final page. Before this is
turned, you have some pleasant comedy of London in war-time, and meet a number of agreeably
sketched persons, whose conversation may amuse you, or, on the other hand, may cause you to
wish them a little less discursive. Madame ALBANESI indeed impressed me as having occasionally
turned her subordinate characters loose into a chapter, with instructions to fill it up anyhow,
while she herself thought out the next move. But the law was always leisurely, so this characteristic
might perhaps be expected in a story so much concerned with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Handel in War-Time.

    "The anthem 'O Thou that tillest' (Messiah), will be
    rendered."--Dublin Evening Mail.

No pains are being spared to promote agriculture in Ireland.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The river in many places has overflown its banks."--
    Henley Newspaper.

Even Father Thames cannot resist the modern mania for aviation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a review of Dr. JOHN FITZPATRICK'S "This Realm, This England":--

    "From a Scotsman, we deprecate the definition of 'This Realm' as
    'England,' and would suggest to the learned doctor that he would have
    done nothing derogatory to himself, even in the eyes of Englishmen, if
    he had used the really correct and comprehensive name Britain."--Scots
    Pictorial.

SHAKSPEARE (ghost of), please note.