What most strikes the imagination is that amid the most stirring events of the greatest war
in history British Legislators should devote three of their precious hours to so trumpery an
affair. Was this what the old jurist had in mind when he called the House of Commons "The Great
Inquest of the Nation"?

A fresh injustice to Ireland was revealed at Question-time. England and Scotland are to enjoy
an educational campaign, in which hundreds of speakers all over the country will dilate upon
the necessity of reducing the consumption and preventing the waste of foodstuffs. But like
most other patriotic schemes it is not to apply to John Bull's other island, though I gather
that it is at least as much wanted there as here.

On the third reading of the Parliament Bill the debate was confined to Irish Members. Mr. FIELD,
who is in the live-stock trade, led one particularly fine bull into the Parliamentary arena.
After complaining that Members had no longer any power in the House, he went on to say, "We
are simply ciphers behind the leading figures on the Front Bench." Surely that, arithmetically
speaking, is the position in which ciphers are most powerful.

Thursday, April 19th.--The mental processes of Sir WILLIAM BYLES are normally so mysterious
that his suggestion that, with the Americans coming in and the Germans making off, this was
the psychological moment for the British Government to initiate proposals for peace, did not
strike the House at large as specially absurd. When Mr. BONAR LAW tactfully observed that the
Supplementary Question was better than the answer he had prepared, one felt that the prospects
of an Anglo-Irish entente had appreciably improved.

When the new MINISTER FOR EDUCATION deposited upon the Table a vast packet of manuscript, and
craved the indulgence of the House if he exceeded the usual limits of a maiden speech, I thought
of the days when the headline, "The Duke of Devonshire on Technical Education," used to strike
on my fevered spirit with a touch of infinite prose. Mr. FISHER began in rather professorial
style, but he soon revealed a glowing enthusiasm for his subject which thawed the House. His
ambition is to transform the teachers in our elementary schools from ill-paid drudges into
members of a liberal and liberally remunerated profession. Our record in the War has shown
that, as a Naval Officer wrote to him, "there is something in your d----d Board School education
after all."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The bride, who was given away by her father, was attended by Miss ----
    as demonsoille d'honneur."--Hawkes Bay Herald (New Zealand).

We fear this marriage was not made in heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A PAPER PROBLEM.

Copy of a letter from the Reverend Laurence Longwind to the Archbishop of CANTERBURY:--

                                              The Rectory,
                                                  Little Pottering,
                                                        April 1st, 1917.

My LORD ARCHBISHOP,--I am writing to ask whether Your Grace would be so kind as to assist me
in resolving a case of conscience which, I feel sure, must be exercising the minds and hearts
of many of my brother clergy at the present time.

The matter to which I refer is closely connected with the sad shortage of paper. It is no doubt
known to Your Grace that many ministers of the Gospel, though capable of eloquence of a high
order, write their sermons. Old sermons tend to increase and multiply at an alarming rate.
I myself have a chest of drawers literally stuffed with them. What, in Your Grace's opinion,
should be done with these?

Would it be right, in view of the purpose for which they were written, to tear them up and
send them away to be pulped? Long and earnestly as I have considered the problem in all its
bearings I am still utterly unable to arrive at a solution.

No doubt I could sell them and devote the proceeds to charitable purposes. There is, I am informed,
a large and steady demand for old sermons amongst the younger clergy who have not that ripe
experience of life which sixty years in a rural parish cannot fail to provide. But I am informed
that the dealers do not always offer appropriate prices. And I should hesitate to make a traffic
in holy things unless I could make quite certain that no breath of scandal could result from
inadequate remuneration.

I have sounded my churchwardens on the subject, but without reaping any benefit from the advice
given. "Do you see any harm in selling them simply as paper?" I asked one of them, a Mr. Bloggs.
"Not a rap! Not a rap! Get rid of 'em!" was his reply. Naturally I felt hurt. It was not so
much what he said as the way he said it. The mere mention of my sermons always seems to make
him irritable. Why I cannot imagine.

My dear wife advises me to send them down to the schoolhouse. The children, she thinks, might
use the backs (I write on one side of the paper only) for their sums. But I fear such an expedient
might give rise to a spirit of irreverence.

Would Your Grace hold me greatly to blame were I to raffle them at our next rummage sale? I
feel sure they would fetch a good price. Only yesterday Miss Tabitha Gingham remarked to her
sister, Miss Mary, "We had a good long sermon from the Rector this morning." I was passing
behind their laurel hedge at the moment, and could not fail to overhear this meed of praise.
Miss Tabitha is, I should explain, very hard to please, and if she thinks them good there must
be others in the parish of the same opinion. I might be able to raise quite a nice sum for
our local Seed Potato Committee by a Spring raffle of my longer and more elaborate compositions.
And since everybody is beginning to take a modern view of Bonus Bonds I do not think that a
raffle for such a purpose need arouse serious opposition.

Trusting that Your Grace will be able to give me your considered opinion in this matter, which
is arousing so much attention at the present time,

             I am, Your Grace's humble and obedient Servant,
                        LAURENCE LONGWIND.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FORE AND AFT.

  The A.S.C.'s a nobleman; 'e rides a motor-car,
  'E is not forced to 'ump a pack, as we footsloggers are;
  'E drives 'is lorry through the towns and 'alts for fags and beer;
  We infantry, we does without, there ain't no shops up 'ere;
  And then for splashin' us with mud 'e draws six bob a day,
  For the further away from the line you go the 'igher your rate of pay.

  My shirt is rather chatty and my socks 'ud make you larf;
  It's just a week o' Sundays since they sent us for a barf;
  But them that 'as the cushy jobs they lives in style and state,
  With a basin in their bedrooms and their dinners on a plate;
  For 'tis a law o' nachur with the bloomin' infantry--
  The nearer up to the line you go the dirtier will you be.

  Blokes at the base, they gets their leave when they've bin out three
      munse;
  I 'aven't seen my wife and kids for more 'n a year, not once;
  The missus writes, "About that pass, you'd better ask again;
  I think you must 'ave been forgot." Old girl, the reason's plain:
  We are the bloomin' infantry, and you must just believe
  That the nearer up to the line you go the less is your chance of leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "We cussed at Grosvenor House and some steps in this direction may be
    expected if the demands of retailers become more rapacious."--Daily
    Mail.

It is no good abusing the FOOD CONTROLLER, however, or prices would long ago have been down
to zero.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAB DREAMS OF MAY.

  The day-dim torches of chestnut trees stand dreamily, dreamily;
    In myriad jewels of glad young green, smooth black are the broad beech
        boles;
  The fragrant foam of the cherry trees hangs creamily, creamily,
    And the purpling lilacs and the blackthorn brakes are singing with all
        their souls!

  The pinky petals of lady's-smocks peer maidenly, maidenly;
    Meadow-sweet, donning her fragrant lace, is daintiest friend of the
        breeze;
  Hyacinths wild, blue-misting the woods, hang ladenly, ladenly,
    And tiniest bird's-eye burns deep blue in thickets of tall grass trees!

  Daylong I lie, daylong I dream, swung swooningly, swooningly,
    In an old-time tulip of flaming gold, red-flaunted and streaked with
        green,
  While song of the birds, of water and bees comes crooningly, crooningly,
    And Summer brings me her swift mad months with scent and colour and
        sheen.
                  Winter is gone, I ween,
                  As it had never been!

          Dance! dance! Delicately dance!
              Revel with the delicatest stamp and go!
          Dance! dance!  Circle and advance,
              Curtsey, twirl about,
              Shatter the dew and whirl about,
          Stamp upon the moonbeams--heel and toe!

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE NEWS FROM THE AIR.

THE ALLIES.

The other day I was in a country house whose owners are so lost to shame as still to keep pets.
There is a dog there which is actually allowed to eat, in defiance of all those Times' correspondents
whose sole idea of this stimulating and unfailingly devoted animal is that it is personified
greed on four legs. There are two or three horses of unusual intelligence, which no doubt our
friend the Hun would long since have devoured, but which, even though hunting is over, are
by some odd freak of sentiment or even of loyalty still kept alive. There are rabbits. And
there is a bird in a cage against the wall of a small yard. This bird is a chaffinch, which
a friend had brought over from France.

After I had fraternised shamefully with all these deplorable drones, my hostess drew my attention
to the French chaffinch, a line big fellow, very tame and cheerful. "We will feed him," she
said, "and then you will see something that happens every day. Something very interesting."

So saying she poured into a receptacle for the purpose enough seed, no doubt, to make, mixed
with other things, several admirable thimble-loaves of bread substitute, and told me to watch.

I watched, and very soon the French chaffinch, having eaten a certain amount of the seed, dashed
his beak amid the rest with such violence that it was spilt over the pan, out of the bars and
down to the ground below.

"That's very wasteful," I said. "Lord DEVONPORT wouldn't like that--Lord DEVONPORT wouldn't;"
this being the kind of facetious thing we are all saying just now, and something facetious
being in this particular house always, for some reason or other, expected of me.

"Wait a minute," my hostess replied. "There's more reason in it than you think."

And there was.

The whole point of this mediocre narrative consists in the fact that within a few seconds some
dozen sparrows had descended to the yard and were feeding busily while the chaffinch watched
from above. And this happens at every mealtime.

To what extent we are contributing to the French Commissariat I cannot say; but with my own
eyes I have seen a French citizen being systematically generous to his English cousins.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The sale [of potatoes] started at 6 a.m., and the first omnibus from
    London brought over 200 buyers down."--Weekly Dispatch.

A gross case of overcrowding.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DOUBLE ENTENTE.

    ["In view of the fact that M.C. is also the abbreviation for 'Military
    Cross' ... it has been recommended that the abbreviations for the
    degrees of Bachelor of Surgery and Master of Surgery be altered from
    B.C. and M.C. to B.Ch. and M.Ch."]

In view of the fact that P.M. is also the abbreviation for Prime Minister and Post-Mortem,
the London and North-Western Railway recommend that in future the abbreviation for afternoon
be A.L. (After Luncheon).

In view of the fact that (as every schoolboy knows) D.D. is also the abbreviation for Double
Donkey, the Upper House of Convocation recommend that in future the abbreviation for Doctor
of Divinity be Doc. Div.

In view of the fact that Q.S. is also the abbreviation for Quarter Sessions, the Committee
of the Pharmaceutical Society recommend that in future the abbreviation for Quantum Suff. be
S.W. (Say When).

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Herbert Spencer made a rough outline of his 'Sympathetic Philosophy'
    when forty years old."--Weekly Paper.

Alas! he never lived to fill in the details.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PERSONAL TRIUMPH.

Always at the same point of my railway journey North I drop my paper and wait till a certain
trim red-roofed ivy-clad cottage comes into view across the fields to the right. Till yesterday
there were two reasons why I should hail this cottage with delight. First of all, it stands
where trim cottages are rarer than pit-heads and slag heaps; and, secondly, GEORGE STEPHENSON
once lived there. From now onwards, however, I have a third and more compelling reason for
respecting the old building. You shall hear.

Know, then, that I have a friend called Smithson. The Athenians would have had a short way
with him; and I admit that there have been times in the course of our relationship when hemlock
would really have been the only thing to meet the case. Our conversations (it is no fault of
mine) are always dialectical. They take the following form. Light-heartedly I enunciate a proposition.
Smithson is interested and asks for a clearer statement. I modify my original position. Smithson
purrs. Seeing trouble imminent, I modify my modification, and from that point onwards I make
a foredoomed but not (as I flatter myself) an unplucky fight against relentless logic. The
elenchus comes soon or late, but it always comes. Only in dreams am I ever one up on Smithson.
The old trick of cramming up hard parts of the Encyclopaedia overnight is no good. I tried
it once with "Hegesippus" and "The Hegira." You don't know what either of these words mean?
Smithson did--and he knew the articles. No doubt he and Mr. GLADSTONE had written them in collaboration.

Well, yesterday, Smithson and I were in the neighbourhood of the cottage which I have told
you of. Having an hour to spare from work of national importance, we took our sandwiches and
were eating them in view of the jolly old house.

"What's that thing over the door?" I said.

"That I take to be a sun-dial," said Smithson with his accustomed reserve of strength.

"What a delightful stile," I said. (You always have stiles on sun-dials. I knew that).

"Qua stile it is perfect. What do you make of the inscription?"

I went at it bald-headed. "Percunt et imputantur," I said.

"You may be right, of course," replied Smithson, "though it certainly begins with an A."

"True," I corrected. "Anno Domini."

"Conceivably--but the second letter is a U."

I left Smithson painfully to reconstruct A-U-G-U-S-T from among the ivy. He had got to the
M of a long date when a burst of sun cast a crisp shadow across the dial.

"I don't think much of GEORGE STEPHENSON after all," I said. "His beastly clock doesn't know
the right time."

Smithson snorted. Here was a challenge to the omniscient.

"That's all right," he said, recovering himself in a moment "All properly constructed dials
have a compensating table; we shall find one no doubt behind the ivy; there! I see it, to the
left--a compensating table by which you have to correct the actual record of the shadow. For
example, we are now in Lat. 55 N. The month is April. At Greenwich--"

But I wasn't listening. A bright truth had flashed into my mind, and I couldn't hold myself
back any longer. "It's just about an hour slow," I said. "You don't think that Daylight Saving
has anything to do with it, do you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"About twenty-four hours later one of the ship's officers saw something bobbing on the water
a few hundred years dead ahead."--New York Evening Post.

America evidently foresees a long war.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STRIFE OF TONGUES.

(Lines suggested by the recent demise of the inventor of Esperanto.)

  As a patriotic Briton
  I am naturally smitten
      With disgust
  When some universal lingo
  By a zealous anti-Jingo
      Is discussed.

  Some there are who hold that Spanish
  In the end is bound to banish
      Other tongues;
  Some again regard Slavonic
  As a stimulating tonic
      For the lungs.

  I would sooner bank on Tuscan,
  Ay, or even on Etruscan,
      Than on Erse;
  But fanatical campaigners,
  Gaelic Leaguers and Sinn Feiners
      Find it terse.

  Some are moved to have a shy at
  Persian, thanks to the Rubaiyat,
      And its ease;
  But it's quite another matter
  If you're anxious for to chatter
      In Chinese.

  To instruct a brainy brat in
  Canine or colloquial Latin
      May be wise;
  But it's not an education
  As a fruitful speculation
      I'd advise.

  French? All elegance equips it,
  But how oft on foreign lips it
      Runs awry;
  German, tainted, execrated,
  Is for ages relegated
      To the sty.

  As for brand-new tongues invented
  By professors discontented
      With the old,
  Well, the prospect of a "panto"
  Played and sung in Esperanto
      Leaves me cold.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "One of the most striking--and satisfactory--features of the new
    restaurant regime is the disappearance of the bread-basket."--Daily
    Telegraph.

Or, at any rate, a considerable shrinkage in its contour.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "If there must be duplication of electric light installations, the
    apparati might, at least, be made uniform. And it would not be
    expecting too much if they were made in some way to harmonise with the
    telephone service."--Australian Paper.

Or even with the Latin Grammar?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "5-Seater Car for Sale; must sell; chauffeur at the Front; own body
    cost over L73. What offers?--RECTOR."--Times.

These personal details seem to us a little out of place in a commercial transaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

( By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

In these days, when everybody has his reminiscences, there should still be a welcome for so
genial a volume as A Soldier's Memories (JENKINS), into which Major-General Sir GEORGE YOUNGHUSBAND
has gathered his "Recollections of People, Places and Things." The title truly indicates the
character of the contents, which are exactly what you would expect from a plain blunt man,
who loves his friends, and equally loves a good story about them, at his own or their expense,
impartially. The anecdotes in the book are legion, and the actors in them range from troopers
to generals, and beyond. KING EDWARD, their present Majesties, Sir DOUGLAS HAIG ("a nice-looking
clean little boy in an Eton jacket and collar") all figure in the author's pictures of the
past, which include also a highly characteristic study of WILLIAM THE FRIGHTFUL, congratulating
the "citizens of Salisbury," represented by a handful of curious urchins, upon their "beautiful
and ancient cathedral." (One can fancy the unspoken addition in the Imperial mind, "And what
a target for Bertha!") Many of Sir GEORGE'S pages are devoted to stories of the Boer campaign,
that old unhappy far-off thing that seems somehow, as one looks back to-day, further off than
Waterloo. In fine, a book that all Service folk, and many besides them, will find a treasure-house
of good stories, of exactly the kind that should be certain of their appeal now, when we are
all, or like to think ourselves, soldiers in the greatest of England's wars, and inheritors
of the traditions here shown in the making.

       *       *       *       *       *

A short hour's reading and you will have laid down, with a sigh for its brevity, a little book
that is a very model of artistry. It is by Mr. E.V. LUCAS, and Outposts of Mercy is its happy
name. But I am not to seek reflected glory by the praising of a colleague; simply for the sake
of the cause that he pleads I wish to commend this fascinating account of the author's visit,
in the company of Lord MONSON, Chief Commissioner, to the stations of the British Red Cross
on the Carso, at Gorizia and among the Carnic and Julian Alps. Resisting sternly the temptation
to embroider his theme with the distractions of scene and circumstance (of course he had to
tell us of that dinner at the mess of an Alpine regiment where he met the man who had discovered
the "Venus of Cyrene"), he keeps as closely as may be to his main subject, but cannot escape
from infusing it with his own sense of colour and romance and the unconscious appeal of his
personality. One may envy him his rare experience, yet fully share his pride in the fearless
devotion of the men and women of our race (one can imagine it of no other) in these perilous
and lonely outposts of mercy. A little paper book, illustrated with little photographs, and
costing just a shilling. The author and his publishers (METHUEN) are devoting the profits to
the British Red Cross; so you who buy and read it--and I don't see how anybody can refuse--may
extract a claim to virtue from an hour of pure delight.

       *       *       *       *       *

A quiet style, keen powers of observation, and a delightful assumption of his own unimportance
combine to make Mr. FREDERICK PALMER'S With the New Army on the Somme (MURRAY) a book that
will be read long after the Hun has returned to the place from which he came. "Those whose
business it was to observe, the six correspondents ... went and came always with a sense of
incapacity and sometimes with a feeling that writing was a worthless business when others were
fighting." There we have his apology for doing what obviously seemed to him a second-best thing;
but much as I like his modesty I can assure him that no finer tribute has yet been paid to
our new army. Mr. PALMER was the accredited American correspondent at the British Front, and
though the days are happily passed when he was a neutral in name his position as an impartial
spectator gives him an advantage denied to the most veracious of our own correspondents. Our
French Allies too may be congratulated, by themselves as well as by us, on being observed by
eyes so shrewd and friendly. Anyone who has been in the war-zone and seen a French regiment
resting cannot fail to be struck by the acuteness of this remark; indeed it provides the key
to what, for an ordinary British mind, is a puzzle. It is one of Mr. PALMER'S many virtues
that, although his main business was to watch the soldiers and the fighting, he never forgets
the man inside the uniform. This gives to his historical record the added interest of a study
in psychology.

       *       *       *       *       *

