"Oh, he a'n't lame!--it's nothing but the cramps from stowing. You know, of course, they are
more or less stiff. He's as sound as a nut."

"Don't much like to buy relations, on account of their hatching up mischief together," said
Mr. Scroggs.

"Oh, that's all humbug! You must keep 'em from coming together, anyway. It's about as broad
as 'tis long. There'll be wives and husbands and children among 'em before long, start 'em
as you will. And then this woman will work better for having the boy; she's kinder set on him;
she jabbers lots of lingo to him, day and night."

"Too much, I doubt," said the overseer, with a shrug.

"Well, well--I'll tell you," said Simeon, rising. "I've got a few errands up-town, and you
just step over with Matlock and look over the stock;--just set aside any that you want, and
when I see 'em all together, I'll tell you just what you shall have 'em for. I'll be back in
an hour or two."

And so saying, Simeon Brown called an underling from an adjoining room, and, committing his
customer to his care, took his way up-town, in a serene frame of mind, like a man who comes
from the calm performance of duty.

Just as he came upon the street where was situated his own large and somewhat pretentious mansion,
the tall figure of the Doctor loomed in sight, sailing majestically down upon him, making a
signal to attract his attention.

"Good morning, Doctor," said Simeon.

"Good morning, Mr. Brown," said the Doctor. "I was looking for you. I did not quite finish
the subject we were talking about at Mrs. Scudder's table last night. I thought I should like
to go on with it a little."

"With all my heart, Doctor," said Simeon, not a little flattered. "Turn right in. Mrs. Brown
will be about her house-business, and we will have the keeping-room all to ourselves. Come
right in."

The "keeping-room" of Mr. Simeon Brown's house was an intermediate apartment between the ineffable
glories of the front-parlor and that court of the gentiles, the kitchen; for the presence of
a large train of negro servants made the latter apartment an altogether different institution
from the throne-room of Mrs. Katy Scudder.

This keeping-room was a low-studded apartment, finished with the heavy oaken beams of the wall
left full in sight, boarded over and painted. Two windows looked out on the street, and another
into a sort of court-yard, where three black wenches, each with a broom, pretended to be sweeping,
but were, in fact, chattering and laughing, like so many crows.

On one side of the room stood a heavy mahogany sideboard, covered with decanters, labelled
Gin, Brandy, Rum, etc.,--for Simeon was held to be a provider of none but the best, in his
housekeeping. Heavy mahogany chairs, with crewel coverings, stood sentry about the room; and
the fireplace was flanked by two broad arm-chairs, covered with stamped leather.

On ushering the Doctor into this apartment, Simeon courteously led him to the sideboard.

"We mus'n't make our discussions too dry, Doctor," he said. "What will you take?"

"Thank you, Sir," said the Doctor, with a wave of his hand,--"nothing this morning."

And depositing his cocked hat in a chair, he settled himself into one of the leathern easy-chairs,
and, dropping his hands upon his knees, looked fixedly before him, like a man who is studying
how to enter upon an inwardly absorbing subject.

"Well, Doctor," said Simeon, seating himself opposite, sipping comfortably at a glass of rum-and-water,
"our views appear to be making a noise in the world. Everything is preparing for your volumes;
and when they appear, the battle of New Divinity, I think, may fairly be considered as won."

Let us consider, that, though a woman may forget her first-born, yet a man cannot forget his
own system of theology,--because therein, if he be a true man, is the very elixir and essence
of all that is valuable and hopeful to the universe; and considering this, let us appreciate
the settled purpose of our friend, whom even this tempting bait did not swerve from the end
which he had in view.

"Mr. Brown," he said, "all our theology is as a drop in the ocean of God's majesty, to whose
glory we must be ready to make any and every sacrifice."

"Certainly," said Mr. Brown, not exactly comprehending the turn the Doctor's thoughts were taking.

"And the glory of God consisteth in the happiness of all his rational universe, each in his
proportion, according to his separate amount of being; so that, when we devote ourselves to
God's glory, it is the same as saying that we devote ourselves to the highest happiness of
his created universe."

"That's clear, Sir," said Simeon, rubbing his hands, and taking out his watch to see the time.

The Doctor hitherto had spoken in a laborious manner, like a man who is slowly lifting a heavy
bucket of thought out of an internal well.

"I am glad to find your mind so clear on this all-important point, Mr. Brown,--the more so
as I feel that we must immediately proceed to apply our principles, at whatever sacrifice of
worldly goods; and I trust, Sir, that you are one who at the call of your Master would not
hesitate even to lay down all your worldly possessions for the greater good of the universe."

"I trust so, Sir," said Simeon, rather uneasily, and without the most distant idea what could
be coming next in the mind of his reverend friend.

"Did it never occur to you, my friend," said the Doctor, "that the enslaving of the African
race is a clear violation of the great law which commands us to love our neighbor as ourselves,--and
a dishonor upon the Christian religion, more particularly in us Americans, whom the Lord hath
so marvellously protected, in our recent struggle for our own liberty?"

Simeon started at the first words of this address, much as if some one had dashed a bucket
of water on his head, and after that rose uneasily, walking the room and playing with the seals
of his watch.

"I--I never regarded it in this light," he said.

"Possibly not, my friend," said the Doctor,--"so much doth established custom blind the minds
of the best of men. But since I have given more particular attention to the case of the poor
negroes here in Newport, the thought has more and more labored in my mind,--more especially
as our own struggles for liberty have turned my attention to the rights which every human creature
hath before God,--so that I find much in my former blindness and the comparative dumbness I
have heretofore maintained on this subject wherewith to reproach myself; for, though I have
borne somewhat of a testimony, I have not given it that force which so important a subject
required. I am humbled before God for my neglect, and resolved now, by His grace, to leave
no stone unturned till this iniquity be purged away from our Zion."

"Well, Doctor," said Simeon, "you are certainly touching on a very dark and difficult subject,
and one in which it is hard to find out the path of duty. Perhaps it will be well to bear it
in mind, and by looking at it prayerfully some light may arise. There are such great obstacles
in the way, that I do not see at present what can be done; do you, Doctor?"

"I intend to preach on the subject next Sunday, and hereafter devote my best energies in the
most public way to this great work," said the Doctor.

"You, Doctor?--and now, immediately? Why, it appears to me you cannot do it. You are the most
unfit man possible. Whosever duty it may be, it does not seem to me to be yours. You already
have more on your shoulders than you can carry; you are hardly able to keep your ground now,
with all the odium of this new theology upon you. Such an effort would break up your church,--destroy
the chance you have to do good here,--prevent the publication of your system."

"If it's nobody's system but mine, the world won't lose much, if it never be published; but
if it be God's system, nothing can hinder its appearing. Besides, Mr. Brown, I ought not to
be one man alone. I count on your help. I hold it as a special providence, Mr. Brown, that
in our own church an opportunity will be given to testify to the reality of disinterested benevolence.
How glorious the opportunity for a man to come out and testify by sacrificing his worldly living
and business! If you, Mr. Brown, will at once, at whatever sacrifice, quit all connection with
this detestable and diabolical slave-trade, you will exhibit a spectacle over which angels
will rejoice, and which will strengthen and encourage me to preach and write and testify."

Mr. Simeon Brown's usual demeanor was that of the most leathery imperturbability. In calm theological
reasoning, he could demonstrate, in the dryest tone, that, if the eternal torment of six bodies
and souls were absolutely the necessary means for preserving the eternal blessedness of thirty-six,
benevolence would require us to rejoice in it, not in itself considered, but in view of greater
good. And when he spoke, not a nerve quivered; the great mysterious sorrow with which the creation
groaneth and travaileth, the sorrow from which angels veil their faces, never had touched one
vibrating chord either of body or soul; and he laid down the obligations of man to unconditional
submission in a style which would have affected a person of delicate sensibility much like
being mentally sawn in sunder. Benevolence, when Simeon Brown spoke of it, seemed the grimmest
and unloveliest of Gorgons; for his mind seemed to resemble those fountains which petrify everything
that falls into them. But the hardest-shelled animals have a vital and sensitive part, though
only so large as the point of a needle; and the Doctor's innocent proposition to Simeon, to
abandon his whole worldly estate for his principles, touched this spot.

When benevolence required but the acquiescence in certain possible things which might be supposed
to happen to his soul, which, after all, he was comfortably certain never would happen, or
the acquiescence in certain supposititious sacrifices for the good of that most intangible
of all abstractions, Being in general, it was a dry, calm subject. But when it concerned the
immediate giving-up of his slave-ships and a transfer of business, attended with all that confusion
and loss which he foresaw at a glance, then he felt, and felt too much to see clearly. His
swarthy face flushed, his little blue eye kindled, he walked up to the Doctor and began speaking
in the short, energetic sentences of a man thoroughly awake to what he is talking about.

"Doctor, you're too fast. You are not a practical man, Doctor. You are good in your pulpit;--nobody
better. Your theology is clear;--nobody can argue better. But come to practical matters, why,
business has its laws, Doctor. Ministers are the most unfit men in the world to talk on such
subjects; it's departing from their sphere; they talk about what they don't understand. Besides,
you take too much for granted. I'm not sure that this trade is an evil. I want to be convinced
of it. I'm sure it's a favor to these poor creatures to bring them to a Christian land. They
are a thousand times better off. Here they can hear the gospel and have some chance of salvation."

"If we want to get the gospel to the Africans," said the Doctor, "why not send whole ship-loads
of missionaries to them, and carry civilization and the arts and Christianity to Africa, instead
of stirring up wars, tempting them to ravage each other's territories, that we may get the
booty? Think of the numbers killed in the wars,--of all that die on the passage! Is there any
need of killing ninety-nine men to give the hundredth one the gospel, when we could give the
gospel to them all? Ah, Mr. Brown, what if all the money spent in fitting out ships to bring
the poor negroes here, so prejudiced against Christianity that they regard it with fear and
aversion, had been spent in sending it to them, Africa would have been covered with towns and
villages, rejoicing in civilization and Christianity!"

"Doctor, you are a dreamer," replied Simeon, "an unpractical man. Your situation prevents your
knowing anything of real life."

"Amen! the Lord be praised therefor!" said the Doctor, with a slowly increasing flush mounting
to his cheek, showing the burning brand of a smouldering fire of indignation.

"Now let me just talk common-sense, Doctor,--which has its time and place, just as much as
theology;--and if you have the most theology, I flatter myself I have the most common-sense;
a business-man must have it. Now just look at your situation,--how you stand. You've got a
most important work to do. In order to do it, you must keep your pulpit, you must keep our
church together. We are few and weak. We are a minority. Now there's not an influential man
in your society that don't either hold slaves or engage in the trade; and if you open upon
this subject as you are going to do, you'll just divide and destroy the church. All men are
not like you;--men are men, and will be, till they are thoroughly sanctified, which never happens
in this life,--and there will be an instant and most unfavorable agitation. Minds will be turned
off from the discussion of the great saving doctrines of the gospel to a side issue. You will
be turned out,--and you know, Doctor, you are not appreciated as you ought to be, and it won't
be easy for you to get a new settlement; and then subscriptions will all drop off from your
book, and you won't be able to get that out; and all this good will be lost to the world, just
for want of common-sense."

"There is a kind of wisdom in what you say, Mr. Brown," replied the Doctor, naïvely; "but I
fear much that it is the wisdom spoken in James, iii. 15, which 'descendeth not from above,
but is earthly, sensual, devilish.' You avoid the very point of the argument, which is, Is
this a sin against God?

"Well, Doctor," said Simeon, shortly, "you can do as you like; but I give you fair warning,
that I, for one, shall stop my subscription, and go to Dr. Stiles's church."

"Mr. Brown," said the Doctor, solemnly, rising, and drawing his tall figure to its full height,
while a vivid light gleamed from his blue eye, "as to that, you can do as you like; but I think
it my duty, as your pastor, to warn you that I have perceived, in my conversation with you
this morning, such a want of true spiritual illumination and discernment as leads me to believe
that you are yet in the flesh, blinded by that 'carnal mind' which 'is not subject to the law
of God, neither indeed can be.' I much fear you have no part nor lot in this matter, and that
you have need, seriously, to set yourself to search into the foundations of your hope; for
you may be like him of whom it is written, (Isaiah, xliv.

The Doctor delivered this address to his man of influence with the calmness of an ambassador
charged with a message from a sovereign, for which he is no otherwise responsible than to speak
it in the most intelligible manner; and then, taking up his hat and cane, he bade him good
morning, leaving Simeon Brown in a tumult of excitement which no previous theological discussion
had ever raised in him.

CHAPTER XI

THE PRACTICAL TEST.

The hens cackled drowsily in the barnyard of the white Marvyn-house; in the blue June-afternoon
sky sported great sailing islands of cloud, whose white, glistening heads looked in and out
through the green apertures of maple and blossoming apple-boughs; the shadows of the trees
had already turned eastward, when the one-horse wagon of Mrs. Katy Scudder appeared at the
door, where Mrs. Marvyn stood, with a pleased, quiet welcome in her soft, brown eyes. Mrs.
Scudder herself drove, sitting on a seat in front,--while the Doctor, apparelled in the most
faultless style, with white wrist-ruffles, plaited shirt-bosom, immaculate wig, and well-brushed
coat, sat by Mary's side, serenely unconscious how many feminine cares had gone to his getting-up.
He did not know of the privy consultations, the sewings, stitchings, and starchings, the ironings,
the brushings, the foldings and unfoldings and timely arrangements, that gave such dignity
and respectability to his outer man, any more than the serene moon rising tranquilly behind
a purple mountain-top troubles her calm head with treatises on astronomy; it is enough for
her to shine,--she thinks not how or why.

There is a vast amount of latent gratitude to women lying undeveloped in the hearts of men,
which would come out plentifully, if they only knew what they did for them. The Doctor was
so used to being well dressed, that he never asked why. That his wig always sat straight and
even around his ample forehead, not facetiously poked to one side, nor assuming rakish airs,
unsuited to clerical dignity, was entirely owing to Mrs. Katy Scudder. That his best broadcloth
coat was not illustrated with shreds and patches, fluff and dust, and hanging in ungainly folds,
was owing to the same. That his long silk stockings never had a treacherous stitch allowed
to break out into a long running ladder was due to her watchfulness; and that he wore spotless
ruffles on his wrists or at his bosom was her doing also. The Doctor little thought, while
he, in common with good ministers generally, gently traduced the Scriptural Martha and insisted
on the duty of heavenly abstractedness, how much of his own leisure for spiritual contemplation
was due to the Martha-like talents of his hostess. But then, the good soul had it in him to
be grateful, and would have been unboundedly so, if he had known his indebtedness,--as, we
trust, most of our magnanimous masters would be.

Mr. Zebedee Marvyn was quietly sitting in the front summer parlor, listening to the story of
two of his brother church-members, between whom some difficulty had arisen in the settling
of accounts: Jim Bigelow, a small, dry, dapper little individual, known as general jobber and
factotum, and Abram Griswold, a stolid, wealthy, well-to-do farmer. And the fragments of conversation
we catch are not uninteresting, as showing Mr. Zebedee's habits of thought and mode of treating
those who came to him for advice.

"I could 'ave got along better, if he'd 'a' paid me regular every night," said the squeaky
voice of little Jim;--"but he was allers puttin' me off till it come even change, he said."

"Well, 'ta'n't always handy," replied the other; "one doesn't like to break into a five-pound
note for nothing; and I like to let it run till it comes even change."

"You see what the Bible has to say on the matter," he said.

"Well, now, Deacon, I rather think you've got me in a tight place," said Mr. Griswold, rising;
and turning confusedly round, he saw the placid figure of the Doctor, who had entered the room
unobserved in the midst of the conversation, and was staring with that look of calm, dreamy
abstraction which often led people to suppose that he heard and saw nothing of what was going
forward.

All rose reverently; and while Mr. Zebedee was shaking hands with the Doctor, and welcoming
him to his house, the other two silently withdrew, making respectful obeisance.

Mrs. Marvyn had drawn Mary's hand gently under her arm and taken her to her own sleeping-room,
as it was her general habit to do, that she might show her the last book she had been reading,
and pour into her ear the thoughts that had been kindled up by it.

