"'A bargain, godson!' said the Dwarf. 'Thou art a right sort of lad, and I will help thee.
My children must have their shoes too; for by the loss of them they have gone already a great
stride back in their education. Thou canst hear how they cry and beg, the poor things! Come
here, and dip into thy father's head. The poor dog no longer feels it. So! that'll do. For
the skull, concern thee no further. In a quarter of an hour, it shall be where it should be.
But now, I rede thee, look that thou art presently ready to marry, and neglect not bidding
good plenty of guests; but invite especially those that have hitherto tightly toused, mocked,
and scorned thee. If thou hast lack of coin, thou wottest where Godfather Stringstriker dwells.
On thy wedding-day, send hither thy three largest waggons, and to each a team of four strong
horses, for I shall load them heavily--and hear'st, Godson Klaus? they shall drive nice and
slowly round about the springlet, and then away again at a good gallop back to thy farm-yard.
As to thyself, mark me, Klaus! upon thy wedding-day thou shalt stick a yew-leaf in thy left
ear, and, as soon as I sign to thee, throw some handfuls of the like upon all the tables. Now,
at once, good-night!'

"The shoes were already delivered up. There was a hissing in the air, the water in the well
moved in luminous circles, and a hearty laughter seemed to force its way out of all the fissures
of the earth. All was then still. The moon burst forth, and shone so brightly that one might
have looked for a pin. Klaus felt his good gold in his pockets, and returned gleesome, and
in ease of heart, back to his ruinous house.

"After a night spent in pleasant dreams, Klaus reckoned up his cash, and found it sufficient
to procure some horses, a few cows, waggon, and gearing. As to the repairs of the mansion,
his notion was to do at first only the indispensable, clearly discerning that, in order to
live comfortably in future, an entire pulling down and rebuilding was inevitable. He was much
more bent upon reappearing as a man of money and estate in the eyes of his fellow farmers.
His first care, accordingly, was to hire domestics, male and female, to rig himself out a little,
and then, without delay, to push on the preparations for his marriage.

"In less than a fortnight, every thing requisite was done, and the neighbours opened their
eyes to thrice their usual size as they suddenly saw life moving again in Nicholas's farmhouse--active
labourers once more in his fields. Their astonishment increased upon hearing, next Sunday,
the banns published from the pulpit. But when, a week afterwards, the functionary whose office
it was, with silver-headed cane, velvet waistcoat and frill, to bid the guests to the approaching
wedding, appeared upon the farms of those who, a little before, were Klaus's most memorable
calumniators, and invited all, without exception, to the merry-making, then indeed, as if by
magic, did the despised Lying Klaus become 'a worthy creature after all,' 'a capital fellow
at last,' and have his praises echoed from every beer-bench in the parish. Nobody ever thought
of asking how Klaus got possessed of his new money. He had it; that fact was all-sufficient
for the multitude. One or two might itch to make their comments upon the quick metamorphosis,
but self-love kept them quiet; for every man already licked his lips in anticipation of the
marriage-feast that awaited all.

"The preparations for the wedding were busily pushed on. Joiners and carpenters were closing
windows, and fastening tottering beams from morning till night. Walls were broken down, and
kitchens built up. Nothing had been seen like it by 'the oldest inhabitant.'

"Well, time ran on, and the banns were three times called; there was the spousal at the parsonage,
the fetching of the bride by the bridegroom, with an escort of musicians, and at length there
was the marriage ceremony itself--all happily got through. The guests, men and women, were
numerous, and amongst them not a few who, for a sennight, had lived on half-allowance, the
better and more steadily to devour at Klaus's marriage.

"In due time, orders were given to take the three largest waggons to the Dwarf's well, to drive
slowly round this thrice, and then to push back at a gallop. The servants did not dare to refuse
their master's bidding; but they shook their heads significantly when they received their strange
commission, and suspected, firm and fast, that Klaus, in his excessive joy, had already drunk
a cup or two beyond his thirst.

"The pastor, sitting at the right hand of the bride, had said grace, and the schoolmaster and
the marriage-entreater were about commencing the distribution of the enormous masses of carp,
beneath which the tables fairly groaned, when the rattle of the three returning waggons made
known to Klaus the arrival of his subterranean guests. His heart beat violently, for at the
same instant a well-known whispering and humming met his ear. In obedience to command, he secured
the yew-leaf in his left ear, and prepared himself for what might follow. He expected much,
but what he saw almost threw him from his seat with astonishment.

"Wherever there was an aperture, a split, or a rent in walls, windows, doors, there came in
the dwarfs by hundreds: so as that in a few minutes the whole space was swarming with the little
ones. They were most smartly dressed, just as Klaus had previously seen them, only that now,
instead of the top boots, they wore those delicate dancing-pumps, upon which the young husbandman
had at first caught them at work.

"Klaus attentively noted whether any of his guests had a suspicion of the apparition of these
earth mannikins, but there was not a sign of it. The gentlemen forked away gallantly, and the
tankards were not running over. As the bridegroom saw the spiritual company still gliding in,
so that their number amounted already to hundreds of thousands, and stove-cornices, window-sills,
joint-stools, and backs of chairs were thickly beset with the comical companions, he began
to be uneasy. He feared lest the brothers of the bride, who were waiting upon the guests, might
trample the small brood into fine dust; and in order to divert at least all blame from himself,
he addressed himself to his godfather, then approaching him.

"'You do me great honour, respected godfather, by your presence--but please remember, I cannot
answer for dwarf slaughter--and murderous crushings. Only look at the quantity of spruce vermin
you have done me the favour to bring with you!'

"Stringstriker waved his hand magnanimously, and told his godson that it was of little consequence.
Then with a bold leap, the king mounted the long table, picked his way to the middle of it,
and there, with legs astride, fast planted himself. Not one of all the guests perceived the
larger Dwarf, any more than they could see the countless little ones. Even Annie and the clergyman
were stone-blind: so that Klaus, speaking unintelligibly at every turn, had to bear the jokes
of all; for young and old, woman and man, chimed readily in with the tone of sportive raillery,
as soon as it was once pitched.

"The company indeed persisted in laughing and rioting so loudly at the bridegroom's expense,
that the pastor of the flock at length felt himself called upon to assume his face of office--to
put a damper, as it were, upon the unseemly proceeding. Just as he began, a new dish, soup
with crabs' noses, (hotchpotch,) engaged exclusively the regard of the whole of the guests.
A full plate was set before every visitor, but scarcely set before him, before, with the speed
of lightning, from chair-backs, window-sills, stove-cornices, nay, from the floor itself, innumerable
dwarfs bounded on to the table, and, taking their places by all the plates, in three seconds
consumed the savoury viand. To complete the astonishment, the confusion, the wrath, the fury
of the voracious boors, Stringstriker himself galloped up and down the whole length of the
table, breaking all the vessels, and draining all the beer and brandy with wonderful celerity.

"Had the most precious jewels of the Holy Roman Empire been plundered by the Turks, there could
not have been a greater commotion than arose among the wedding-guests. Every man jumped up,
turned in anger and disgust towards his neighbour, sate down again, and again began to reach
after the food, without being able, of course, to get a morsel. Then every man swore his neighbour
was making a fool of him, and, from the coarsest words, it came, without loss of time, to dreadful
menaces and blows. So greedy were some after the liquorish cookery that they gave themselves
good smart punctures in lip and tongue; inasmuch as the mischievous dwarfs, as soon as any
in his haste forked up a piece of meat, incontinently had it down their own throats. With such
provocation, the blows, on all sides, came down in showers; more ears were peppered, backs
thumped, ribs punched, than the prize-ring of England had ever seen. And, as if it were not
enough for the men to be sparring, the women, seeing their husbands covered with blood and
bruises, must needs take up the cudgels, and fall to fighting too! A hundred arms were a-kimbo
in a twinkling. Caps were dragged off, and nails shown with amazonian spirit. There was a general
mêlée; every soul at the table was engaged in the contest. Marriage and bridal pair were forgotten;
and Klaus roared at the droll uproar till his throat smarted again: for, not much to his regret,
he soon enough became aware that his enemies and his calumniators were the parties who were
coming off second best.

"This mutual threshing had lasted a good quarter of an hour, when a sign from Stringstriker
directed the bride-groom to scatter the yew-leaves. In an instant the table was covered with
them; and the guests, as if bewitched, dispersed in grotesque groups, and remained transfixed.
Every eye was on the busy dwarfs. Klaus's godfather, crossing his legs, seated himself upon
the table, and began to scrape his fiddle. The earth mannikins then arranged themselves in
order, swung their broad hats gracefully, and, one stepping upon the shoulder of another, built
up a living pyramid above the bride. A number clambered up to the very top of her tinsel crown,
where, still two and two, they took possession of a spangle, fixed themselves upon it, and
rocking to and fro, set up a soft and tender song. The bride danced to its tune, the pyramid
of dwarfs along with her; and it was enchanting to see how their shining silvery girdles, and
the bright clasps upon their caps, flashed and sparkled in the varying figure. Three times
the dwarfs changed in the building of this pyramid, and three times, attended by it, must the
bride dance round the table, through the gaping groups of guests. This done, Stringstriker
played a lively march, broke through a window with his fiddlestick, and leapt out through the
opening--whilst the whole dwarf brotherhood, waltzing, laughing, tumbling, in a countless crowd,
prepared to follow him. For a time the procession fluctuated through the air, where the girdles
yet sparkled. Soon, like a dissolving gleam, all vanished!

"The stupified boors were now able to stir themselves again. Doubtless there were many bumps,
black and blue faces, and bloody noses: but the sight of all could not suppress the most extravagant
merriment. All that had happened was looked upon as a prank of the fiddler, and many in their
hearts felt that they had only received a just punishment for their coarse and unchristian
calumnies.

"Klaus Stringstriker's fame lived upon every tongue. The dwarfs obtained no mean eulogies:
and when it was at last discovered that the small mannikins had, close before the window, one
and all thrown down their broad brown capkins with the brilliant clasps, the company for joy
was almost mad. The bridegroom was importuned, in remembrance of this marvellous festival,
to bestow upon each guest one such dwarf-hatkin, and Klaus did not need a long begging. Each
one acquired a hatkin with its agraffe: some of a greedy nature, by stealth, possessed themselves
of two. The presents given, the company returned to the board, and drank and uproared far into
the night.

"Upon the morrow, Klaus found the Dwarf-hatkins turned into so many Kremnitz double ducats,
and upon each there lay, glittering in the sunshine, a fine diamond. As he gathered them, a
delicate voice from unseen lips whispered to him that these were his father's hairs. All the
gift-receivers had the same wonder to tell. Those, however, who had secretly taken away the
second dwarf's cap were punished for the theft-- for they got nothing from the transformation
but a wet and worthless beech-leaf.

"From that hour all haunting upon Klaus's estate ceased. Even at the Dwarf's well nothing remarkable
was seen, save once a-year--upon the anniversary of the young boor's wedding-day--when a great
gamboling flame appeared upon the waters, in which a singing and ringing might be heard, like
the voices of the smallest beings. The fortunate Klaus built himself a great house, repurchased
the tavern, and upon the pillar where Stringstriker, tied up by his father, had had to fiddle
so long, he carved an inscription which published the Dwarf's praise to every guest And his
father's grave he surrounded with a fair iron grating. As for himself, his intercourse with
the Dwarf had made him prudent. He ruled his substance discreetly, helped the poor, and cautioned
the light-witted by the relation of his own history. So he became the richest and most respected
man of the whole neighbourhood; and at length acquired the name of the Dwarf's advocate: because,
as Klaus maintained, and as it was generally believed, a most important service had been rendered,
by the passages of Klaus's history, to these singular and benevolent earth-spirits themselves."

SOME REMARKS ON SCHILLER'S MAID OF ORLEANS.

Perhaps there is no play of Schiller's which is read with more general pleasure than the Maid
of Orleans, nor one against which so many critical objections have been raised. Some of these
we wish to examine, in order either to remove, or with greater accuracy to re-state them. It
will be seen at once that we have no intention of entering into any general review or estimate
of this great dramatic poet. Too much has been written, and especially in this place, on Schiller,
to permit us to be tempted into any such design. We shall not wander from the single play we
have selected for our criticism.

On recalling to mind the story of Joan d'Arc, what is the point of view in which that singular
person presents herself to us? Joan d'Arc--whom we shall call, after her title in the play,
Johanna--a village maiden, and a fugitive from her home, turned the tide of victory in the
great war which, in her time, was raging in France. As she effected this through the influence
which a belief in her supernatural power and celestial inspiration exerted upon the army of
Charles; and as, on the other hand, the cruel fate she herself personally encountered from
her enemies, was the consequence of an opposite belief in her witchcraft, or possession by
the devil; the unhappy maiden presents herself to us, in a strictly historical point of view,
as one of those wild visionaries whom solitude occasionally rears, become suddenly the sport
of the tumultuous feelings of two rival hosts, elevated by the one to a saint and the companion
of angels, and by the other blackened into a witch and the associate of demons. History has
relieved her moral character from the aspersions thrown upon it, and philosophy has quite denuded
her of the least claims to supernatural power, whether derived from above or from below: nothing
remains but the enthusiast and the visionary, and the strange position into which circumstances
conducted her. And this position of the thought-bewildered maid is rendered the more striking,
when we consider that it was her own countrymen who judged of her in so contradictory a manner;
for the war which raged around her was rather a civil war, in which one of the parties had
formed an alliance with England, than a national war between France and England. It was by
Frenchmen that she was extolled and reverenced, and by Frenchmen that she was condemned and
executed: it was under the auspices, and with the blessings, of the church that she conquered;
it was the church that execrated her, and sent her as an abomination to the stake.

This point of view is not only historically true, but replete, we think, with poetic interest.
The maiden is not, indeed, invested with any supernatural attributes; we see her here neither
more nor less than the pious and day-dreaming enthusiast; but an enthusiast for her country--an
enthusiast for a young prince whom she has been taught to honour, and whose reverse of fortune
has deeply affected her. We see this young enthusiast--her imagination swarming with visions,
her heart beating with generous aspirations--thrown out from her village retirement upon the
tumult of war; we see her snatched up, as by a whirlwind, by the fanaticism of the multitude,
who bear her, as she bears her banner, onwards in their career, and conquer under this new
standard they have reared. We see her arriving at a success which, notwithstanding her own
prophecies, must have astonished herself. When the king has been crowned at Rheims, something
whispers to her that she ought now to retreat into her native village, or, what was the only
fitting termination for her course, into some religious house, and find there a harbour from
the tempest on which she is tossing. But the selfish men around her will not let her go. She
may guide them a little yet. They bear the torch while there is an ember left. Then comes the
changeful fortune of war, defeat and imprisonment; and now we see the same poor human heart,
its visions soiled and clouded, its courage beaten down, surrounded only by enemies and scoffers,
beginning even to suspect itself of imposture and impiety. She who had felt as a saint, hears
herself exorcised as a sorcerer; and, by and by, a crowd of men, churchmen and civilians, stand
round in triumph to see her burnt and consumed as a thing unholy and impure, whose life had
been, not, as she had deemed, a perpetual devotion, but a perpetual blasphemy.

But although it appears to us that this, which is the true historical point of view, is also
the most replete with poetic interest, it may not be an interest so well adapted to the drama
as to other species of poetry. The heroine is here made the prey of the two rival factions,
who appear to contend, not only for the possession of her person, but for the domination over
her mind; not enough is attributed to her individual will and character; the action of the
piece does not immediately flow from her; and the people, with its strange faiths and monstrous
caprices, becomes the veritable hero. It was for this reason, we presume, that Schiller rejected
what, in our days, is the simple and natural manner of considering his subject, and adopted
a different point of view. Designating his play as a romantic tragedy, he resolved to represent
the maid as really inspired by Heaven--as veritably commissioned by the Virgin--as endowed,
bonâ fide, with miraculous powers. She is thus the living centre of the action. Whatever is
effected by the appearance of the Maid of Orleans, is effected by her individual prowess, or
the aid of heaven administered through her.

This was a bold attempt, and very boldly has Schiller executed it. He has stopped at no middle
point. He has not scrupled to represent the fabulous miracles of a superstitious age as actually
taking place before us. Johanna gives proofs of her faculty of second-sight; she sees, while
at the camp of the Dauphin, the death of Salisbury before Orleans; she performs in our presence
those miracles by which she is said to have first established her reputation at the court--recognising
the Dauphin at once, although he had purposely resigned his post of dignity to another, and
reciting to him the secret prayer which he had, the night before, offered up to God in the
solitude of his own chamber. And not only are the fables, which the chronicles of the times
have handed down to us, enacted as veritable facts, but the poet has added miracles and prodigies
of his own invention; and in particular, a certain spectre of a black knight--who appears to
us to have been introduced as much for the sake of supporting the supernatural character of
the piece as for any other purpose.

This hardihood of the poet has by some critics been censured. For ourselves, we have a lingering
and obstinate regret that Schiller ever thought it necessary to forsake the true for the fabulous;
that he did not restrict himself to representing the faith of the age in the dialogue of his
personages; that he did not content himself with marvels related only in the imitated conversation
of superstitious persons. The most sceptical of men admit the reality and fervour of superstitious
beliefs; and in depicting them in all their vitality, the poet is still adhering rigidly to
truth: it is for the reader to sympathize with them or not at his pleasure. But Schiller having
resolved to represent as fact the superstitious faith of the times, instead of building upon
that faith as his fact; having determined that Johanna should be verily inspired, and see visions,
and be the champion of the Holy Virgin for the salvation of France--we think he was quite right
in casting aside all timidity, all remaining scruples of reason, and freely giving up his scene
to prodigies and marvels. If you must lie, lie boldly--is a good maxim for poets as well as
rogues. Above all, do we dislike that dubious and pitiful position which a narrator of supernatural
events sometimes falls into, where the reader is perpetually asking himself whether the author
seriously intends to task his credulity or not.

We must here, however, remark that, even when the poet represents the supernatural as the faith
only of others, he must still, in order to do this effectively, awaken some degree of superstitious
feeling in ourselves. To understand the belief or delusion of another without more or less
participating in it, is a state of mind in which the philosopher might be very well content
to place us, but which by no means suits the purposes of the poet. We must be made to partake
for the moment, to some slight degree, in the superstitious feelings of the past age which
is brought before us, or we can no longer feel that sympathetic interest which the poet seeks
to create. The spectacle presented to us becomes one of mere curiosity. As well might we look
through a microscope, and watch the world of animalculae it reveals. Very curious that little
world; but we take no part in any of its proceedings, violent as they evidently are. And here
lies the reason, we apprehend, why dramatic representations of insanity are so generally unsuccessful.
We cannot participate in the capricious delusions of the maniac, who becomes, therefore, a
mere object of wonder or curiosity. The moment when the lunatic affects us most deeply is,
when he approaches nearest to the ordinary current of human thought--it is the moment when
he comes back to reason, and its too frequent companion, the sense of pain.

We make this observation, because it probably had its weight in determining the poet in the
course he pursued. Schiller probably reflected that, whether he related his marvels in the
dialogue of his personages, or represented them as facts in his drama, he must in both cases
depend, for the impression he should produce, on a successful appeal to the superstitious feelings
of his contemporaries. In whatever era a poet may find his materials, his authority for using
them must lie in the age he writes for--in the interest they are capable of exciting in that
age. His success as a dramatic poet required that he should kindle the love of the marvellous;
and he may have thought that, in an artistical point of view, the question resolved itself
into one of policy, of means to an end--whether it were better to assail our credulity by open
force, and so take it by storm, or to content himself with a less advantage, gained by more
insidious but surer approaches.

With all his boldness, and all his genius, has Schiller succeeded in his treatment of the miraculous?
We hesitate to reply. There is a peculiar difficulty in deciding how far a poet has been successful
in an appeal to superstitious feelings; it is this, that in such cases every intelligent reader
feels that he must be aidant and assistant in the subjection of his own rebellious reason,
prompt at every moment to turn with impatience and derision from the utterly incredible. This
necessity to be a party concerned in the business, leaves him in doubt how far he has been
compelled by the poet, and how far he has, or ought to have, voluntarily surrendered. After
all, the use of the marvellous in poetry is not so much itself to impress us with awe and astonishment,
as to supply novel and striking situations for the display of human feelings. When Johanna,
for instance, describes the visitation by the Virgin, and declares her sacred mission, we listen
unmoved. Not so, when, having felt the touch of human passion, she sighs to re-enter into the
common rank of mortals, and laments the dreadful honour that has been imposed upon her. Yet
this latter sentiment, so natural and so affecting, could not be separated from the previous
fable. In this lies the difference between the poetry of a rude and a cultivated age. In the
first, the supernatural is for itself sought for and admired; in the second, it is admitted
for the sake of the singular opportunities it affords for the display of natural and powerful
emotions.

There is another point in the tragedy of The Maid of Orleans, on which we feel no hesitation
whatever in expressing a decisive opinion-- namely, the violent departure from history in the
catastrophe. But in order to make our remarks on this and some other points intelligible, we
must enter a little further into the plot of the drama. Our detail shall be as brief as possible.[1]

[1] In the few extracts we shall have occasion to make, we would have willingly had recourse
at once to an English translation, if such had been within our reach. That not being the case,
the reader must accept our own attempts at translation.

The drama opens with a scenic prologue. The scene is the village of Dom Remi; on the left is
the Druid oak--on the right, the image of the Virgin in a small chapel. Thibaut d'Arc enters
with his three daughters, Margaret, Louison, and Johanna, together with their three suitors,
Etienne, Claude Marie, and Raimond. Thibaut deplores the state of his fatherland. Young Henry
VI. of England has just been crowned at Paris, and Charles, the hereditary prince, is wandering
a fugitive through his own kingdom. They themselves are in danger every day of seeing the enemy
pour down into their own quiet valleys. Nevertheless, partly from this very cause, he determines
upon giving his daughters in marriage without further delay. He bestows Margaret upon Etienne.
Then, turning to the second daughter, Louison, and to her suitor, who, it seems, can lay little
claim to worldly possessions, he says--

     "Shall I, because ye proffer me no wealth,
     Sunder two hearts that seem so well attuned?
     Who has wealth now? Home and homestead now
     Are booty for the robber and the flames:
     The strong heart of a brave and constant man
     Is the sole roof-tree which these stormy times
     Must pass unshaken."

Hitherto father Thibaut seems an amiable personage, but he turns out to be one of the most
disagreeable atrabilious parents that ever made his appearance on the stage. He next addresses
and reproaches his daughter Johanna, who is beloved by Raimond, but who rejects the ties of
earthly affection. He has taken an exceedingly morose view of the character of his daughter;
a circumstance which becomes of great importance in the progress of the piece; for Johanna's
reverse of fortune is brought about by the strange intervention of this dark and sinister parent.
He believes his child more prone to ally herself with evil spirits, through a vain and sinful
ambition, than, inspired by piety, to emulate the lives of saints. Raimond combats this gloomy
notion. He thinks that the love of Johanna, like the most costly fruits, is only late in ripening.

       "Raimond.--As yet she loves to dwell upon the hills,
     And trembles to descend from the free heath
     To man's low roof, beset with narrow cares.
       Thibaut.--Ay, that it is displeases me. She flies
     Her sisters' frolicsome companionship
     For the bare hills--deserts her sleepless couch
     Before the cock-crow--in that fearful hour
     When man so willingly his shelter seeks,
     Housed with his kind, within familiar walls,
     She, like a solitary bird, hies forth
     Into the gloomy, spirit-haunted, night,
     Stands on the cross-way, holding with the air
     Mysterious intercourse. Why will she choose
     Perpetually this place? Why will she drive
     Her flocks for ever here? I've seen her sit
     Musing whole hours together underneath
     This Druid oak, which all good Christians shun;
     There's nothing blest beneath it; a foul spirit
     Has made his refuge in it ever since
     The old and sinful times of Paganism.
     The old men of the village can relate
     Horrible tales of this same tree: one hears
     Oft, in its thick dark branches, whisperings
     Of strange unearthly voices. I, myself,
     As once my way led past the tree at night,
     Saw sitting at its trunk a spectral woman,
     Who slowly, from her wide enfolding robe,
     Stretch'd a thin hand and beckon'd me."

Raimond points to the sacred image of the Virgin, which stands opposite the oak, and replies
that it is the attraction which brings Johanna to this spot. But the old man persists in his
own interpretation. Because his daughter is more beautiful than any other maiden in the valley,
she is proud, and disdains her humble condition. He has had, moreover, ominous dreams. The
entrance of Bertrand, a countryman just arrived from the neighbouring town of Vaucouleurs,
interrupts the conversation. He carries a helmet in his hand, which has been forced upon him,
in the marketplace, by a strange woman. Johanna, who has all this while remained quite silent,
not answering a word to the rebuke of her parent, comes suddenly forward, and claims the helmet
as having been sent for her. Through the interposition of her lover, it is granted to her.
Bertrand, being asked what news of the war he has heard at Vaucouleurs, gives a desponding
account of the king's cause, and brings the report that Orleans, pressed by the besiegers,
is on the point of surrendering. Johanna now breaks forth:--

     "Of treaty, of surrender not a word!
     A saviour comes and arms her for the fight.
     At Orleans wrecks the fortune of the foe!
     His measure full, he is for harvest ripe,
     And with her sickle shall the virgin come,
     And reap the rank luxuriance of his pride.
     Down from the heavens she tears that blazon'd fame
     These English knights have hung about the stars.
     Fly not! droop not!
     Before the corn is yellow in the fields,
     Before this moon has fill'd her globe of light,
     There shall not drink an English horse
     Of the sweet-flowing waters of the Loire.
       Bertrand.--Alas! the age of miracles is past.
       Johanna.--Not past! ye shall behold a miracle.
     Lo! a white dove with eagle courage flies
     Down on the vulture that still rends his prey,
     Our mangled country. The traitor Burgundy,
     The haughty Talbot that would storm the skies,
     This Salisbury, scandal of the Temple's order,
     And all these insolent proud islanders
     Shall fly before her like a herd of lambs."

Of this prologue it has been justly said, that it might as well have been the first scene of
the first act: for it is as essential to the progress of the piece as any one scene in the
play; and the speakers re-appear, and for very important purposes, in the body of the drama.
For our part, we look upon prologues of this description as little else than a device of the
poet to gain more space than his five acts afforded him. When it has no connexion with the
action of the piece, we wish to know what claim it has to be there at all; and when it is so
connected, we are at a loss to perceive what end it answers, which could not be as legitimately
prosecuted under the old title of Act I. Scene 1.

The nominal first act opens with the little court of Charles at Chinon. Here all is verging
towards a state of desperation. Finances exhausted, troops threatening to disband, and a deputation
from Orleans to inform the king that the town had agreed to surrender, if, within fourteen
days, effectual succour was not sent to relieve it. Charles answers in despair:--

             "Can I by stamping with my feet
     Raise armies from the ground? Can I
     Pour granaries from this bare and naked palm?
     Rend me in pieces! Tear me out this heart,
     And coin it for gold! Blood have I for you,
     But silver have I none, nor corn, nor soldiers."

Agnes Sorel enters with a casket of jewels in her hand. Although she has always refused to
accept of the king any more costly present than a rare flower, or an early fruit, she now comes
to devote all her wealth and possessions to his service. But her aid affords him little more
than a noble proof of her love and generosity: it can effect nothing to the restoration of
his shattered fortunes. He dismisses the deputies from Orleans with permission to make the
best terms they can for themselves. Dunois, the bastard of Orleans, who has eloquently protested
against this desponding desertion, as he deems it, of his own cause, quits the king in anger.
Sorel dispatches La Hire after him to persuade him to return. La Hire re-enters.

     "Sorel. You come alone, you bring him not with you.
             [then observing him more closely.
     La Hire! What is it? What means this kindled look?
     Alas! Some new misfortune.

       La Hire.         Misfortunes
     Are overblown--'tis sunshine, lady, sunshine!

        Sorel. What is it?--I entreat--

        La Hire to the King. Call back the embassy,
     The deputies from Orleans!

       Charles. Why? What is this?

       La Hire. Haste! call them back! Thy fortunes change,
     A battle has been fought, and thine the victory.

       Sorel. Victory! Oh, heavenly music!

       Charles.           La Hire,
     Some fabulous report has cheated you.
     Victory! I believe no more in victories.

       La Hire. You will believe--in greater wonders still
     Here comes the archbishop, and with him Dunois.

And with them comes also a knight, who relates how this victory has been won by the sudden
appearance of an armed virgin, who scattered dismay and terror amongst their enemies. Shouts
are heard from without, and Johanna enters. Here the course of history is followed in the account
the maid gives of herself, and the proofs she affords of her divine mission.

At the opening of the second act, we find that Orleans has been relieved by the inspired Johanna.
Talbot and Lionel, the English leaders, attribute the late defeat to the Burgundians; the Duke
of Burgundy retorts. These angry chiefs are on the point of separating, and terminating their
alliance, when the queen-mother Isabeau enters, and reconciles them. But when Isabeau, who,
from her unnatural hatred to her son Charles, and a certain coarseness of temper, is altogether
a very disagreeable personage, offers, woman against woman, to lead her own party against Johanna,
they all unite in bidding her return forthwith to Paris. The army, they say, is dispirited
when it thinks it fights for her cause--the cause of the mother against the son. Isabeau says:--

     "Ye know not, weak souls, that ye are the rights
     Of a wrong'd mother. I, for my part, love
     Who honours me; who injures me, I hate;
     And should this be my own begotten son,
     He is for this more hateful. I gave life,
     And I will take--if he, with shameless rage,
     Scandal the womb that bore him. Ye proud nobles
     Who war against my son, ye have no right
     To pillage him. What injury has he done
     To you? what duty violated?
     Ambition and low envy spur ye on:
     I, who begot him, have a right to hate."

While the English are still in their camp, little dreaming of surprise, the maiden rushes on
them, conquers and disperses them. Here passes a scene between Johanna and Montgomery, a young
Welsh knight, who begs for his life in a truly Homeric manner--pleading his youth, the anguish
of his mother, and the sweet bride he had left upon the Severn. It is quite Homeric, professedly
and successfully so, and therefore quite out of place. The Welsh knight speaks in a most unknightly
strain. And the change of metre that is adopted assists in giving to the whole the air of a
mere poetical exercise. The scene is not, however, without its purpose in the development of
the character of the maid, because it shows how utterly she is at this time engrossed in her
warlike mission; she is not a moment affected by the entreaties of Montgomery, and dooms him
to death without pity.

The war still continues fatal to the English. Talbot is slain. In the next scene, the ghost
of this warrior appears to Johanna, under the form of a black knight with the visor closed.
The apparition lures her away from the heat of the contest, and then addresses to her this
solemn warning:--

                         "Johanna d'Arc!
     Up to the gates of Rheims hast thou been borne
     Upon the wings of victory. Now pause.
     Content thee with the fame that thou hast won.
     Let fortune go, whom thou hast held in bonds,
     Ere it in anger shall break loose from thee;
     For never is it constant to the end."

Johanna, however, who can hear of nothing, and think of nothing, but of fighting for her country,
and who has a particular detestation for this black knight, strikes at it with her sword. It
vanishes with the appropriate accompaniments of thunder and lightning.

The apparition of the black knight has occasioned some embarrassment and discussion among the
critics. It was at first quite plain that it was the ghost of Talbot; and when there was no
longer any doubt on this head, it was not easy to decide what brought the ghost of Talbot there,
and why he should give what, knowing as we do the history of Johanna, has the appearance of
very sound advice. But in that lay the very snare of Satan. It was wise counsel that the devil,
through this ghost, gave to Johanna; but it was worldly wise. It was well suited to some ambitious
person engaged in a career of conquest. Had such a black knight appeared, for example, to Napoleon,
on the eve of entering on his war with Russia, and warned him to furl his banner of conquest,
it would have been a friendly and intelligent ghost, though we do not believe it would have
been listened to for a moment. A human passion is stronger than a whole regiment of ghosts.
But such advice addressed to Johanna, the missionary of heaven, who fought from duty, not ambition,
could have no other effect than to infuse into her mind ideas of vain-glory and love of fame,
a selfish regard to personal consequences, and a distrust of the protection of her divine mistress.
The ghost of Talbot, therefore, was evidently in league with her enemies, the devils, in the
insidious counsel it gave. But the counsel was rejected with disdain, and Johanna went on still
victorious over all.

But the maiden next encounters a more pernicious apparition than the black knight. She contends
with the gallant Lionel. Here, as elsewhere, she is the victor; she raises her sword to strike,
but, fatally for her peace, she looks twice before she deals the blow. She cannot strike.

Now follows--but in vain for Johanna--the full accomplishment of her glorious enterprise, in
the coronation of the king at Rheims. Contrary to the obligation of her high mission, she has
received into her heart a human passion. Her peace is gone. Here the poet, in order to express
the rapid alternations of feeling to which she is a prey, breaks from the even tenor of blank
verse into a lyrical effusion of remarkable beauty and pathos. She is sought for to take her
part in the ceremony of the coronation; it is now with a feeling of horror that she receives
into her hands the sacred banner, which she had borne triumphantly to so many victories.

Amongst the crowd who have flocked from all parts to witness the ceremony, are the family of
Johanna, and her old lover Raimond. Her father Thibaut is also there. He has come to save,
if yet possible, his child from perdition, whom he still persists in thinking under the influence
of wicked spirits, and to have wrought all her wonders by the aid of diabolic enchantments.
Now, therefore, when the king, after his coronation, turns towards Johanna, and, in the presence
of all his nobility, addresses her as the deliverer of France, this melancholy father rushes
forward to reproach and to blaspheme his child. She, heartstricken, and conscious of a secret
error, though of a quite different kind from what is laid to her charge, receives in submissive
silence, as the chastisement of heaven, the strange inculpations of her parent:--

       "Thibaut, to the King. Thou deem'st thyself deliver'd by
     God's power. Thou art abused--this people of France are
     blinded! Thou art deliver'd by the devil's craft!

       Dunois. Does this man rave?

       Thibaut. Not I, but thou art raving; All these, the wise
     archbishop at their head, Rave, in believing that the voice
     of heaven Speaks in this wicked girl. Mark, if she dare
     Maintain, before her father's face, the juggle With which
     she cheats the people and her king. In the name of the Holy
     Trinity! Speak! I conjure thee! Dost thou serve with saints,
     And with the pure in heart?

              [A universal silence. Every eye
              is strained towards Johanna, who stands motionless.

        Sorel. God! she is mute!

        Thibaut. So must she be before that awful name Which, in
     the depth of hell itself, is fear'd. She--she a saint! she
     sent from God! No, in a cursed spot--our magic tree Where
     devils from of yore their Sabbath keep--Has all this been
     contrived; there did she sell Her soul to the eternal Fiend,
     to be With brief vain-glory honour'd in this world. Bid her
     stretch forth her arm, and ye will see The punctures by
     which hell has mark'd its own.

        Burgundy. Horrible! Yet must the father be believed Who
     thus against his own child testifies.

       Dunois. No, no, the madman shall not be believed Who in
     his own child vilifies himself.

       Sorel to Johanna. O speak! break this disastrous
     silence! we Believe in thee. We have firm trust in thee.
     One word from thy own mouth, one only word, Shall be enough.
     But speak! Denounce, confound This hideous accusation. Do
     but say That thou art innocent, and we believe it.

                             [Johanna remains motionless. Agnes
                             Sorel steps back with horror.

       La Hire. She is amazed! Astonishment and terror Have
     closed her mouth. Before such hellish charge Must purity
     itself recoil with fright.

                             [Approaches her.

     Take courage! Be thyself! The innocent Have their own proper
     language, and their look Is lightning to consume foul
     calumny. In noble scorn, arouse thyself--look up--Confound
     with shame this most unworthy doubt, Which wrongs thy sacred
     virtue.

                             [Johanna remains motionless. La Hire steps
                              back. The general horror increases.

       Dunois. What scares the people? What dismays the king?
     Oh, she is innocent! I pledge myself, I pledge for her my
     honour as a prince. Here do I throw my gauntlet down. Who
     dares To slander her with guilt?

                             [A violent peal of thunder is heard. All
                               start back terrified.

       Thibaut. God answers! God, Who thunders from above.
     Pronounce thyself, Child of perdition, guiltless, if thou
     dar'st--

                             [A second peal of thunder is heard. The
                             people fly on all sides.

      Burgundy. God shield us! What an awful signal!

      Du Chatel. Come, come, my sovereign, let us fly this
     place!

       Archbishop to Johanna. In the name of God, I speak to
     thee. Art silent From pride of innocence, or shame of guilt?
     If now this voice of thunder testify For thee,--in sign
     thereof embrace this cross.

                             [Johanna remains motionless. Repeated
                             peals of thunder. All leave the church
                             except Dunois.

       Dunois. Thou art my own bride, Johanna! I
     Have from the first believed, and still believe.
     Thee will I rather trust than all these signs,
     Than even this thunder speaking from above.
     'Tis noble pride withholds thee, thou disdain'st
     Wrapt in thy sacred innocence, these mad
     Outrageous charges to refute.
     Disdain so still; confide alone in me,
     Who of thy purity have doubted never,
     I ask no word; place but thy hand in mine,
     In token that thou wilt confide in me,
     In this arm and thy own good cause.

                             [He extends his hand. She turns away with
                             convulsive start.

         (Du Chatel re-enters, and afterwards Raimond.)

       Du Chatel. Johanna d'Arc! The king permits
     That undisturb'd you quit the town of Rheims.
     The gates stand open; no man shall molest you.
     Count Dumois, follow me--you gain no honour in lingering here.

                             [Du Chatel and Dunois leave

       Raimond. Seize on this moment! The streets are empty--give me
       your hand.

                             [Johanna looks upwards to heaven, then
                             hastily taking his hand, goes out.

Under the guidance of Raimond, the prophetess and champion, deserted it seems by man and heaven,
enters a wood, where she is taken prisoner by a party of English. She is sent a captive to
Lionel. But adversity has now reinstated her in all the primitive austerity of her heart; the
weakness she has so severely expiated, has left her; she has no heart now but for her country.
In vain Lionel promises all--for Lionel, as well as Dunois, loves her; she answers only by
denouncing the enemies of France.

A battle is joined under the walls of the tower in which she is imprisoned; she has been bound
in fetters of threefold strength; Lionel has gone forth to lead his army, and the fierce Isabeau
is her jailer. She holds a drawn dagger over her head. If the king of France conquers, Johanna
dies. Nevertheless, she ceases not to pray for his success; and when she hears that the king
is so closely beset by his enemies that he is in danger of his life, she implores heaven with
such fervour, that power is given her to rend asunder her chains. Snatching a sword from one
of her guards, she makes from the tower, and appears on the field of battle in time to rescue
her monarch. But she herself has received a mortal wound; she sinks on the ground, and expires
in the moment of victory. They cover her with the banners of the victorious army. The curtain
falls.

Now, this violent departure from history, in the latter part of the play, is what we chiefly
regret in the tragedy of Schiller. The melancholy fate of Joan d'Arc is so inseparably connected
with her memory, that we cease to identify the portrait of Schiller with the personage of history.
As the tragedy proceeds, we feel that it is no longer our Joan d'Arc that it concerns--so impossible
is it for us to forget, that the village maiden of Dom Remi expiated her pious and visionary
patriotism in the flames at Rouen. Only half her tragedy has been written; the other half remains
for some future Schiller. Nor can we conceive of a better opportunity for the display of the
peculiar powers of this poet, than would have been afforded by that catastrophe he has chosen
to alter. Was the opportunity felt to be too great? Had the poet become wearied and exhausted
with his theme, and did he feel indisposed to nerve himself afresh for scenes which called
for the strenuous efforts of his genius? We know that it was not his original intention to
make this violent departure from history, and that he came to the determination with regret.

We wish to state distinctly on what grounds we make our objection; because there is current
among a class of critics a censure for the mere departure from historical truth--made, it would
seem, out of a sensitive regard for history--in which we by no means acquiesce. We have no
desire to bind a poet to history, merely because it is history. He has his own ends to accomplish,
and by those shall he be judged. As, assuredly, we should not accept it as the least excuse
for the least measure of dulness, on the part of the poet, that he had followed faithfully
the historical narrative, so neither do we impose upon him a very close adherence to it. We
censure the course which Schiller has here pursued, not because he has marred history, but
because he has marred his own poem. The objection lies entirely within the boundary of his
own art. He has selected a personage for his drama with whom a certain fate is so indissolubly
associated, that it is impossible to think of her without recalling it to mind; and this ineffaceable
trait in her history he has attempted, for the time, to obliterate from our memory. By this
procedure, the imagination of the reader is divided and distracted. The picture presented by
the poet is and is not a portrait of the historical figure which lives in our recollection.
There are many points of resemblance; but the chief is omitted. And we always feel that it
is omitted; for history here is too strong for the poet: he cannot expel her from the territory
he wishes to enclose for himself. As well might one describe a Socrates who did not drink the
hemlock--as well a Napoleon who did not die at St Helena, as a Joan d'Arc who did not suffer
in the flames of Rouen.

Von Hinrich, in his critical work upon Schiller, gives a curious defence of this departure
from history:--"The martyrdom," he says, "of the forlorn maiden could hardly satisfy us on
the stage. In history it is different; we see these events in their connexion with the past
and the future, and we do not abstract some single fact, and judge of it apart from all others.
The history of the world is the tribunal of the world. It has justified Johanna; posterity
has restored to her the fame and honour of which a malicious fate had for a season deprived
her. The poet was obliged to change his catastrophe, in order to introduce, in his own epoch,
that finger of justice which, in reality, revealed itself only at a subsequent period."[1]

[1] Part II., p. 183.

But who sees not that, in all such cases, the poet sufficiently and completely reverses the
unjust sentence of contemporaries, by representing the sufferer as undeserving of it?--that,
by depicting her as innocent, he anticipates and introduces the equitable judgment of posterity?
When Schiller had described the Maid of Orleans as pious in heart--as the chosen of Heaven,
he had at once reversed the sentence of the court of Rouen. It was assuredly not necessary
that he should conceal the fact of any such sentence having been passed, in order to exculpate
Johanna: and to exculpate, or to spare, the august judges, was no part of the business of the
poet. Socrates dies in prison, denounced as a corrupter of youth. He himself is sufficiently
vindicated when he is shown to be no corrupter of youth. Is there any sentiment of equity that
would prompt us to suppress the fact, that he died by the public executioner of Athens? Or
would it be doing honour to history--to this great tribunal of appeal--to stifle our indignation
against the unjust and criminal sentences which she has had to repeal?

No doubt the poet would have had difficulties to contend with, in following the course of history.
In particular, as he had chosen to represent Johanna as veritably inspired, he would have been
tasked to reconcile this severity of her fate, on the one hand, with the justice of Heaven
towards its own missionary; or on the other, with the unblemished character of his heroine.
Either Heaven must appear forgetful of Johanna, or Johanna must be represented as having forfeited
a right to its protection. But this difficulty Schiller has not entirely escaped in his own
plot, and he has shown how it may be encountered. Johanna might well yield to the tenderness
of a human passion without forfeiting our sympathy, or incurring a stain upon her moral character;
and yet this aberration of heart--this dereliction from the austere purity required by her
sacred mission--might, in a theological point of view, be supposed to have forfeited her claim
to the miraculous interposition of Heaven in her behalf. So that, in the closing scenes, though
Johanna might have no claim on the miraculous favours of Heaven, she would still be a saint
at heart, and entitled to our deepest sympathy; and Heaven would receive back, if not its prophetess
and champion, yet a noble child of earth, still further purified by more than expiatory sufferings.

This species of difficulty meets us, in one instance, in the tragedy of Schiller, in an unexpected
and unnecessary manner. How are we to understand the thunder which is heard in apparent confirmation
of the cruel accusation of Thibaut? As a mere coincidence, as a mere natural phenomenon, we
can hardly view it; appearing as it does in this atmosphere of wonders. The archbishop seems
to think that possibly the thunder might testify for Johanna. But as the effect is to produce
her condemnation, it is impossible it could have been intended by Heaven for her acquittal.
And yet, if we are to look upon it as corroborating the accusation of the father, it not only
passes a very severe sentence upon Johanna, but it sanctions the gross falsehood of this atrabilious
parent.

Amongst the continental critics, Schiller's Maid of Orleans has been especially commended as
a vindication of the character of Johanna from the vile representation it had endured from
the hands of Voltaire. But here, in England, La Pucelle was never more popular than it deserved
to be--was never popular at all; no one had taken his impression of Joan d'Arc from this tawdry
performance; and we find a difficulty in understanding how Schiller, writing to Wieland, could
represent the poem of Voltaire as a great obstacle in his way. As little had we received our
impression of Joan d'Arc from Shakspeare's tragedy of the First Part of Henry VI., where she
is represented as a mere witch and courtesan, represented, in fact, in the vulgar aspect in
which she still probably appeared to an English populace.

Madame de Staël, after applauding Schiller's tragedy for the restoration it effected of the
character of the French heroine, adds:--"The French alone have consented to this degradation
of the character of the maiden; even an Englishman, Shakspeare, represents her in the beginning
as inspired by Heaven, and afterwards led astray by the demons of ambition." The delineation
of the Maid of Orleans, in the first Part of Henry VI., is associated with the greatest name
in our literature, and therefore, we presume, must be treated with respect; but it is the only
title to respect we can discover in it. We cannot, with Madame de Staël, trace the inspired
maid in any part of the play. La Pucelle gives us, it is true, in the commencement, a very
good account of herself; as she was playing the part of an impostor, it was not probable she
would do otherwise: but her own manner very soon betrays the courtesan; and, when alone, we
find her in the Company of no other spirits than such as witches are accustomed to raise.

We were still more surprised to find Schlegel describing the Maid of Orlean of Henry VI. as
more historical than the portraiture of Schiller. There is the same amount of fable in both.
In Henry VI., we have an echo of the coarse superstition and vulgar scandal of the English
camp--in Schiller, the fable is beautiful, and assists to develop a character of exquisite purity.

THE STOLEN CHILD.

A TRUE TALE OF THE BACK-WOODS.

It was towards the commencement of the month December 1825, that I was going down the Mississippi
in the steam-boat Feliciana. We had arrived in the neighbourhood of Hopefield, Hampstead county,
when one of our paddles struck against a sawyer,[1] and was broken to pieces. We were obliged
in consequence to cast anchor before the town.

[1] The local name for large tree-trunks which get partially buried in the mud, one end sticking,
up just below the surface of the water. They cause frequent accidents to the steam-boats on
the Mississippi.

Hopefield is a small town on the west bank of the river, about six hundred miles above New
Orleans, and five hundred below the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi. It consisted, at
the time of which I speak, of about fifteen houses, two of which were taverns and shops of
the usual kind found in such places--their stock in trade consisting of a cask or two of whisky,
a couple of dozen knives and forks, a few coloured handkerchiefs, some earthenware, lead, powder,
and the like. Our party was composed of ten ladies, the same number of young men, and several
elderly gentlemen. Nothing appears so desirable, during a long voyage in a river steam-boat,
as a stroll upon shore; and, as there was nothing to be done at Hopefield, the proposal of
one of our number to take a ramble in the forest, was met with unqualified approbation by all
the young men. We equipped ourselves each with a rifle, and a bottle of wine or brandy, to
keep the vapours of the swamps out of our throats; the son of one of the tavern-keepers, who
offered himself for a guide, was loaded with a mighty ham and a bag of biscuits, which we procured
from the steam-boat; and, thus provided, we sallied forth on our expedition, attended by the
good wishes of the ladies, who accompanied us a few hundred yards into the wood, and then left
us to pursue our march.

I have often had the occasion to notice, that the first entrance into one of our vast American
forests is apt to reduce the greatest talker to silence. In the present instance, I found the
truth of this remark fully confirmed. Whether it was the subdued half-light of the luxuriant
wilderness through which we were passing, the solemn stillness, only broken by the rustling
of the dead leaves under our feet, or the colossal dimensions of the mighty trees, that rose
like so many giants around us, that wrought upon the imagination, I cannot say; but it is certain
that my companions, who were mostly on the northern states, and had never before been beyond
Albany or the Saratoga springs, became at once silent, and almost sad. The leaves of the cotton-tree,
that giant of the south-western forests, had already assumed the tawny hues of latter autumn;
only here and there a streak of sunbeam, breaking through the canopy of branches that spread
over our heads, brought out the last tints of green now fast fading away, and threw a strange
sparkling ray, a bar of light, across our path. Here was a magnolia with its snow-white blossoms,
or a catalpa with its long cucumber-shaped fruit, amongst which the bright-hued red birds and
paroquets glanced and fluttered.

We walked for some time through the forest, amused more than once by the proceedings of two
young clerks from Boston, who saw a wild animal in every thicket, and repeatedly leveled their
guns at some bear or panther, which turned out to be neither more nor less than a bush or tree-stump.
They pestered our guide with all sorts of simple questions, which he, with a true backwoodsman's
indifference, left for the most part unanswered. After about an hour, we found ourselves on
the borders of a long and tolerably wide swamp, formed by the overflowings of the river, and
which stretched for some five miles from north to south, with a broad patch of clear bright-green
water in the centre. The western bank was covered with a thick growth of palmettos, the favourite
cover of deer; bears, and even panthers; and this cover we resolved to beat. We divided ourselves
into two parties, the first of which, consisting of the New Englanders, and accompanied by
the guide, was to go round the northern extremity of the swamp, while we were to take a southerly
direction, and both to meet behind the marsh, on a certain path which led through a thicket
of wild plum-trees and acacias. Our guide's instructions were not of the clearest, and the
landmarks he gave us were only intelligible to a thorough backwoodsman; but as too many questions
would probably have puzzled him, without making matters clearer to us, we set off, trusting
to our eyes and ears, and to the pocket-compasses with which several of us were provided.

After another hour's walk, during which we had seen nothing but wild pigeons and squirrels,
and a few mocassin snakes warming themselves in the sunbeams, which latter, on our approach,
drew hastily back under the heaps of dry leaves, we arrived at the southern extremity of the
swamp. Proceeding a short distance westward, we then took a northerly direction, along the
edge of the palmetto field, with the marsh upon our right hand. It was a sort of cane-brake
we were passing through, firm footing, and with grass up to our knees; the shore of the swamp
or lake was overgrown with lofty cedars, shooting out of water four or five feet deep, which
reflected their circular crowns. The broad streak of water looked like a huge band of satin,
and the slightest motion of the leaves was immediately perceptible in the mirror beneath them.
From time to time, the least possible breeze rustled through the trees, and curled the water
with a tiny ripple. The water itself was of the brightest emerald-green; and the forest of
palmetto stems that grew along the edge, was reflected in it like myriads of swords and lances.
In the small creeks and inlets, flocks of swans, pelicans, and wild geese, were sunning themselves,
and pluming their feathers for their winter flight. They allowed us to come within a score
of paces of them, and then flew away with a rushing, whirring noise.

We had been for some time plodding patiently along, when our attention was suddenly attracted
by a slow but continued rustling amongst the palmettos. Something was evidently cautiously
approaching us, but whether panther, stag, or bear we could not tell--probably the last. We
gave a glance at our rifles, cocked them, and pressed a few paces forward amongst the canes;
when suddenly a bound and a cracking noise, which grew rapidly more distant, warned us that
the animal had taken the alarm. One of our companions, who had as yet never seen a bear-hunt,
ran forward as fast as the palmettos would allow him, and was soon out of sight. Unfortunately
we had no dogs, and after half an hour's fruitless beating about, during which we started another
animal, within sight or shot of which we were unable to get, we became convinced that we should
have to meet our friends empty-handed. It was now time to proceed to the place of rendezvous,
on the further side of the palmetto field, which was about half a mile wide. The man who had
gone after the bear, had rejoined us, and from him we learned that the brake was bordered on
the western side by a dense thicket of wild-plum, apple, and acacia trees, through which there
was not the least sign of a path. On arriving there we saw that his account was a correct one;
and, to add to our difficulties, the nature of the ground in our front now changed, and the
cane-brake sank down into sort of swampy bottom, extending to the northern extremity of the
lake. Our situation was an embarrassing one. Before us, an impassable swamp; to our right,
water; to our left, an impenetrable thicket; and four hours out of the eight that had been
allotted to us already elapsed. There seemed nothing to be done but to retrace our steps; but,
before doing so, we resolved to make a last effort to find a path. To this end we separated,
taking different directions, and for nearly half an hour we wandered through the thicket, amongst
bushes and brambles, tearing and scratching ourselves to no purpose. At last, when I for one
was about to abandon the search in despair, a loud hurrah gave notice that the path was found.
We were soon all grouped around the lucky discoverer; but to our considerable disappointment,
instead of finding him at the entrance of the wished-for road, we beheld him gravely contemplating
a cow, which was cropping the grass quite undisturbed by our approach. Nevertheless, this was
no bad find, if we could only ascertain whether it was a strayed cow that had wandered far
from its home, or a beast of regular habits that passed each night in its master's cow-house.
An Ohioman solved the question, by pointing out that the animal had evidently been milked that
morning; and as we were debating how we should induce Brindle to proceed in the direction of
its domicile, he settled that difficulty also, by firing off his rifle so close to the beast's
tail, that the bullet carried off a patch of hair, and grazed the skin. The cow gave a tremendous
spring, and rushed through a thicket, as if a score of wolves had been at its heels. We followed,
and the brute led us to a tolerably good path through the wilderness, which we had thought
impenetrable. It was doubtless the path that was to take us to the appointed place of meeting;
and we now slackened our pace, and followed the cow's trail more leisurely. We had proceeded
about a mile, when a strong light in the distance made us aware that we were coming to a clearing;
and on arriving at the place, we found several maize fields enclosed by hedges, and a log-house,
the smoking chimney of which bespoke the presence of inhabitants.

The dwelling was pleasantly situated on a gentle slope, roofed with clapboards, and having
stables and other out-houses in its rear, such as one usually finds in backwood settlements
of the more comfortable kind. Peach-trees were trailed against the house, in front of which
stood some groups of papaws. The whole place had a rural and agreeable aspect.

We were scarcely within the hedge that surrounded the domain, when a brace of bull-dogs rushed
upon us with open jaws. We were keeping off the furious brutes with some difficulty, when a
man came out of the barn, and, upon seeing us, again entered it. After a few moments, he appeared
for a second time, in company with two negroes, who were leading by the horns the very same
cow which we had so unceremoniously compelled to become our guide. We greeted the man with
a "good-morning;" but he made no answer, merely gazing hard at us with a cold sullen look.
He was a tall, broad-shouldered, powerful man, with an expressive but extraordinarily sad,
gloomy, and almost repulsive countenance. There was a restless excitement of manner about him,
which struck us at the very first glance.

"A fine morning," said I, approaching the stranger.

No answer. The man was holding the cow by one horn, and staring at the tail, from which a drop
or two of blood was falling.

"How far is it from here to Hopefield?" asked I.

"Far enough for you never to get there, if it's you who've been drivin' my cow," was the threatening
reply.

"And if we had driven your cow," said I, "you would surely not take it amiss? It was a mere
accident."

"Such accidents don't often happen. People don't shoot cows, if they haven't a mind to eat
other folk's beef."

"You do not suppose," said the Ohioman, "that we should wish to hurt your cow--we, who have
no other intention but to shoot a few turkeys for the voyage. We are passengers by the Feliciana--one
of our paddles is broken; and that is the reason that our boat is at anchor in front of Hopefield,
and that we are here."

This circumstantial explanation seemed to produce little effect on the backwoodsman. He made
no reply. We walked towards the house, and, on stepping in, found a woman there, who scarcely
looked at us, or seemed aware of our entrance. There was the same appearance of fixed grief
upon her countenance that we had remarked in the man; only with the difference, that the expression
was less morose and fierce, but on the other hand more mournful.

"Can we have something to eat?" said I to the woman.

"We don't keep a tavern," was the answer.

"The other party cannot be far off," said one of my companions. "We will give them a sign of
our whereabout." And so saying, he passed out at the door and walked a few paces in the direction
of a cotton field.

"Stop!" cried the backwoodsman, suddenly placing himself before him. "Not a step further shall
you go, till you satisfy me who you are, and where from."

"Who and where from?" replied our comrade, a young doctor of medicine from Tennessee. "That
is what neither you nor any other man shall know who asks after such a fashion. If I'm not
mistaken we are in a free country." And as he spoke he fired off his rifle.

The report of the piece was echoed so magnificently from the deep forests which surrounded
the plantation, that my other companions raised their guns to their shoulders with the intention
of firing also. I made them a sign in time to prevent it. Although there could hardly be any
real danger to be apprehended, it appeared to me advisable to hold ourselves prepared for whatever
might happen. The next moment a shot was heard--the answer to our signal.

"Keep yourself quiet," said I to the backwoodsman; "our companions and their guide will soon
be here. As to your cow, you can hardly have so little common sense as to suppose that five
travellers would shoot a beast that must be perfectly useless to them."

As I left off speaking, there emerged from the forest our other detachment and the guide, the
latter carrying two fat turkeys. He greeted the backwoodsman as an old acquaintance, but with
a degree of sympathy and compassion in the tone of his salutation which contrasted strangely
with his usual rough dry manner.

"Well, Mr Clarke," said he, "heard nothing yet? I'm sorry for it--very sorry."

The backwoodsman made no reply, but his rigid sturdy mien softened, and his eyes, as I thought,
glistened with moisture.

"Mistress Clarke," said our guide to the woman, who was standing at the house-door, "these
gentlemen here wish for a snack. They've plenty of every thing, if you'll be so good as to
cook it."

The woman stood without making any reply: the man was equally silent. There was a sort of stubborn
surly manner about them, which I had never before witnessed in backwoodspeople.

"Well," said the doctor, "we need expect nothing here. We are only losing time. Let us sit
down on a tree-trunk, and eat our ham, and biscuits."

The guide made us a significant sign, and then stepping up to the woman, spoke to her in a
low and urgent tone. She did not, however, utter a word.

"Mistress," said the doctor, "something must have happened to you or your family, to put you
so out of sorts. We are strangers, but we are not without feeling. Tell us what is wrong. There
may be means of helping you."

The man looked up; the woman shook her head.

"What is it that troubles you?" said I, approaching her. "Speak out. Help often comes when
least expected."

The woman made me no answer, but stepped up to our guide, took a turkey and the ham from him,
and went into the house. We followed, sat down at the table, and produced our bottles. The
backwoodsman placed glasses before us. We pressed him to join us, but he obstinately declined
our invitation, and we at last became weary of wasting good words on him. Our party consisted,
as before mentioned, of ten persons: two bottles were soon emptied and we were beginning to
get somewhat merry whilst talking over our morning's ramble, when our host suddenly got up
from his seat in the chimney-corner, and approached the table.

"Gemmen," said he, "you mus'n't think me uncivil if I tell ye plainly, that I can have no noise
made in my house. It aint a house to larf in-- that it aint, by G--!" And having so spoken
he resumed his seat, leant his head upon both hands, and relapsed into his previous state of
gloomy reverie.

"We ask pardon," said we; "but really we had no idea that our cheerfulness could annoy you."

The man made no reply, and half an hour passed away in whisperings and conjectures. At the
end of that time, a negro girl came in to spread the table for our meal.

After much entreaty, our host and hostess were prevailed on to sit down with us. The former
took a glass of brandy, and emptied it at a draught. We filled it again, he drank it off, and
it was again replenished. After the third glass, a deep sigh escaped him. The cordial had evidently
revived him.

"Gemmen," said he, "you will have thought me rough and stubborn enough, when I met you as you
had been huntin' my cow; but I see now who I have to do with. But may I be shot myself, if,
whenever I find him, I don't send a bullet through his body; and I'll be warrant it shall hinder
his stealin' any more children."

"Steal children!" repeated I. "Has one of your negroes been stolen?"

"One of my niggers, man! My son, my only son! Her child!" continued he pointing to his wife.
"Our boy, the only one remaining to us out of five, whom the fever carried off before our eyes.
As bold and smart a boy as any in the back woods! Here we set ourselves down in the wilderness,
worked day and night, went through toil and danger, hunger and thirst, heat and cold. And for
what? Here we are alone, deserted, childless; with nothin' left for us but to pray and cry,
to curse and groan. No help; all in vain. I shall go out of my mind, I expect. If he were dead!--if
he were lyin' under the hillock yonder beside his brothers, I would say nothing. He gave, and
He has a right to take away! But, Almighty God!"---And the man uttered a cry so frightful,
so heartrending, that the knives and forks fell from our hands, and a number of negro women
and children came rushing in to see what was the matter. We gazed at him in silence.

"God only knows," continued he, and his head sank upon his breast; then suddenly starting up,
he drank off glass after glass of brandy, as fast as he could pour it out.

"And how and when did this horrible theft occur?" asked we.

"The woman can tell you about it," was the answer.

The woman had left the table, and now sat sobbing and weeping upon the bed. It was really a
heartbreaking scene. The doctor got up, and led her to the table. We waited till she became
more composed, anxiously expecting her account of this horrible calamity.

"It was four weeks yesterday," she began; "Mister Clarke was in the forest; I was in the fields,
looking after the people, who were gathering in the maize. I had been there some time, and
by the sun it was already pretty near eleven; but it was as fine a morning as ever was seen
on the Mississippi, and the niggers don't work well if there's not somebody to look after them--so
I remained. At last it was time to get the people's dinner ready, and I left the field. I don't
know what it was, but I had scarcely turned towards the house, when it seemed as if somebody
called to me to run as fast as I could; a sort of fear and uneasiness came over me, and I ran
all the way to the house. When I got there I saw little Cesy, our black boy, sitting on the
threshold, and playing all alone. I thought nothing of this, but went into the kitchen, without
suspecting any thing wrong. As I was turning about amongst the pots and kettles, I thought
suddenly of my Dougal. I threw down what I had in my hand, and ran to the door. Cesy came to
meet me:" "Missi," said he, "Dougal is gone!"

"Dougal is gone!" cried I. "Where is he gone to, Cesy?"

"Don't know," said Cesy; "gone away with a man on horseback."

"With a man on horseback?" said I. "In God's name, where can he be gone to? What does all this
mean, Cesy?"

"Don't know," said Cesy.

"And who was the man? Did he go willingly?"

"No! he didn't go willingly!" said Cesy: "but the man got off his horse, put Dougal upon it,
and then jumped up behind him, and rode away."

"And you don't know the man?"

"No, missi!"

"Think again, Cesy," cried I; "for God's sake, remember. Don't you know the man?"

"No," said the child, "I don't know him."

"Didn't you see what he looked like? Was he black or white?"

"I don't know," said Cesy, crying; "he had a red flannel shirt over his face!"

"Was it neighbour Syms, or Banks, or Medling, or Barnes?"

"No!" whined Cesy.

"Gracious God!" cried I. "What is this? What is become of my poor child?" I ran backwards and
forwards into the forest, through the fields. I called out. I looked every where. At last I
ran to where the people were at work, and fetched Cesy's mother. I thought she would be able
to make him tell something more about my child. She ran to the house with me, promised him
cakes, new clothes, every thing in the world; but he could tell nothing more than he had already
told me. At last Mister Clarke came.

Here the woman paused, and looked at her husband.

"When I came home," continued the latter, "the woman was nearly distracted; and I saw directly
that some great misfortune had happened. But I should never have guessed what it really was.
When she told me, I said, to comfort her, that one of the neighbours must have taken the child
away, though I didn't think it myself; for none of the neighbours would have allowed themselves
such a freedom with my only child. I shouldn't have thanked 'em for it, I can tell you. I called
Cesy, and asked him again what the man was like; if he had a blue or a black coat? He said
it was blue. 'What sort of horse?' 'A brown one.' 'What road he had taken?' 'That road!' answered
the boy, pointing to the swamp. I sent all my niggers, men, women, and children, round to the
neighbours, to seek for the child, and tell them what had happened. I myself followed the path
that the robber had taken, and found hoof-prints upon it. I tracked them to the creek, but
there I lost the trail. The man must have got into a boat, with his horse and the child, had
perhaps crossed the Mississippi, or perhaps gone down the stream. Who could tell where he would
land! It might be ten, twenty, fifty, or a hundred miles lower down. I was terribly frightened,
and I rode on the Hopefield. There nothing had been seen or heard of my child; but all the
men got on their horses to help me to find him. The neighbours came also, and we sought about
for a whole day and night. No trace or track was to be found. Nobody had seen either the child
or the man who had carried him off. We beat the woods for thirty miles round my house, crossed
the Mississippi, went up as far as Memphis, and down to Helena and the Yazoo river; nothing
was to be seen or heard. We came back as we went out, empty-handed and discouraged. When I
got home, I found the whole county assembled at my house. Again we set out; again we searched
the forest through; every hollow tree, every bush and thicket, was looked into. Of bears, stags,
and panthers there were plenty, but no signs of my boy. On the sixth day I came home again;
but my home was become hateful to me-- every thing vexed and disgusted me. My clothes and skin
were torn off by the thorns and briers, my very bones ached; but I didn't feel it. It was nothing
to what I suffered in my mind."

On the second day after my return, I was lying heart and body sick in bed, when one of the
neighbours came in, and told me that he had just seen, at Hopefield, a man from Muller county,
who told him that a stranger had been seen on the road to New Madrid, whose description answered
to that which Cesy had given of the child-stealer. It was a man with a blue coat and a brown
horse, and a child upon his saddle. I forgot my sickness and my sore bones, bought a new horse--for
I had ridden mine nearly to death--and set out directly, rode day and night, three hundred
miles, to New Madrid, and when I arrived there, sure enough I found the man who had been described
to me, and a child with him. But it was not my child! The man belonged to New Madrid, and had
been on a journey with his son into Muller county.

I don't know how I got home again. Some people found me near Hopefield, and brought me to my
house. I had fever, and was raving for ten days; and during that time the neighbours advertised
the thing in all the papers in Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana. We had ridden
altogether thousands of miles, but it was no use. "No!" continued he, with a deep groan; "if
my child had died of the fever, if he had fallen in with a bear or panther, and been killed,
it would be bitter, bitter sorrow--he was my last child. But, merciful God--stolen! My son,
my poor child, stolen!"

And the man cried aloud, sprang from his seat, and wrung his hands and wept like an infant.
Even his wife had not shown such utter agony of grief.

"When I go to work," continued he after a pause, "my little Dougal seems to stand before me,
and my hands fall by my sides, as stiff and heavy as though they were lead. I look round, but
no Dougal is there. When I go to bed, I put his bed beside mine, and call him, but no one answers.
Sleeping or waking, my poor boy is always before me. Would to God I were dead! I have cursed
and sworn, prayed and supplicated, wept and groaned, but all--all in vain!"

I have seen many persons suffering from distress of mind, but never did I meet with one whose
sorrow was so violent and overpowering as that of this backwoodsman. We did our utmost to console
him, and to inspire him with new hope, but he was inconsolable; his eyes were fixed, he had
fallen into a sort of apathy, and I doubt if he even heard what was said to him. We ourselves
were so affected that our words seemed almost to choke us. Time pressed, however; it was impossible
for us to remain any longer, nor could we have done any good by so doing. We shook the unfortunate
couple by the hand, promised to do all in our power to learn something of their child's fate,
and took our departure.

It was six weeks after the time above referred to, that I found myself compelled by business
to make a journey to Natchez. I had often thought of poor Clarke's misfortune, and, in conjunction
with my friends, had done all in my power to discover the villain who had robbed him of his
child. Hitherto all our endeavours had been fruitless. The facts were circulated in every newspaper,
were matter of conversation at every teatable in the country; rewards were offered, researches
made, but not the smallest trace of the boy or his stealer was to be found.

It was a bright January afternoon when I landed at Natchez. In company with some acquaintances,
I was ascending the little hill between the lower and upper town, when we heard an unusual
noise and bustle; and on reaching the summit, we saw a crowd assembled before the door of Justice
Bonner's house. Upon going to see what was the matter, we found that the mob consisted of the
better class of people in Natchez, both women and men, but especially the former. Every face
wore an expression of interest and anxiety; and upon making enquiry, we learned that the child-stealer
had been at length discovered--or rather, that a man had been taken up on strong suspicion
of his having stolen Mr Clarke's son, of Hampstead county. I was heartily rejoiced at the news
and endeavoured to press forward through the throng, in hopes of hearing some particulars;
but the crowd was so dense that it was impossible to get through. I stood there for nearly
two hours, the concourse all the while increasing, none stirring from the places they occupied,
while every adjacent window was filled with eager, anxious faces.

At last the door opened, and the prisoner, guarded by two constables, and followed by the sheriff,
came out of the house, and took the direction of the town prison. "That is he!" whispered the
women to one another, with pale faces and trembling voices, clasping their children tighter,
as though fearful they would be snatched from them. The countenance of the culprit was the
most repulsive I had ever seen--a mixture of brutal obstinacy and low cunning, with a sort
of sneering, grinning, expression. His small green-grey eyes were fixed upon the ground; but
as he passed through the lane opened by the crowd, he from time to time partially raised them,
and threw sidelong and malicious glances at the bystanders. He was rather above the middle
height, his complexion of a dirty greyish colour, his cheeks hollow, his lips remarkably thick
and coarse, his whole appearance in the highest degree wild and disgusting. His dress consisted
of an old worn-out blue frock, trousers of the same colour, a high-crowned shabby hat, and
tattered shoes. The impression which his appearance made might be read in the pale faces of
the spectators. They gazed after him with a sort of hopeless look as he walked away. "If that
is the man who stole the child," murmured several, "there is no hope. The boy is lost!" I extricated
myself from the throng, and hastened to Justice Bonner, with whom I was acquainted, and who
gave me the following particulars.

About four weeks after our excursion in the neighbourhood of Hopefield, Clarke had received
a letter, signed Thomas Tully, and stamped with the Natchez postmark. The contents were to
the effect that his child was still living, that the writer of the letter knew where he was,
and that, if Mr Clarke would enclose a fifty-dollar bank-note in his answer, he should receive
further information. On receipt of the said sum, the writer said he would indicate a place
to which Mrs Clarke might repair, unaccompanied, and there, upon payment of two hundred dollars
more, the child should be delivered up.

Upon receiving this letter, the unfortunate father consulted with his friends and neighbours;
and, by their advice, he wrote immediately to the postmaster at Natchez, informing him of the
circumstances, and requesting that the person who applied for his answer might be detained.
Four days afterwards, a man came to the window of the post-office, and enquired if there was
any letter to the address of Thomas Tully. The postmaster pretended to be searching for the
letter amongst a pile of others, and meanwhile a constable, who was in attendance, went round
and captured the applicant. Upon the examination of the letter, it appeared that he was an
Irishman, who had some time previously been hanging about Natchez, and had endeavoured to establish
a school there. As he, however, had been unable to give any satisfactory account of himself,
of where he came from, or what he had been doing up to that time, and as his manner and appearance
were moreover in the highest degree suspicious and repulsive, he had not succeeded in his plan,
and the few parents who sent their children to him had speedily withdrawn them. He was known
at Natchez by the name of Thomas Tully, nor did he now deny that that was his name, or that
he had sent the letter, which was written in a practised schoolmasterlike hand. It was further
elicited that he was perfectly acquainted with the paths and roads between Natchez and Hopefield,
and in the neighbourhood of those two places, as well as with the swamps, creeks, and rivers
there adjacent. He was fully committed, till such time as the father of the stolen child should
be made acquainted with the result of the examination.

In five days Clarke arrived with the negro boy Caesar. The whole town showed the greatest sympathy
with the poor man's misfortune, the lawyers offered him their services free of charge, and
a second examination of the prisoner took place. Every thing possible was done to induce the
latter to confess what had become of the child; but to all questions he opposed an obstinate
silence. The negro boy did not recognize him. At last he declared that he knew nothing of the
stolen child, and that he had only written the letter in the hope of extorting money from the
father. Hardly, however, had this been written down, when he turned to Clarke, with an infernal
grin upon his countenance, and said, "You have persecuted and hunted me like a wild beast,
but I will make you yet more wretched than you are able to make me." He then proceeded to inform
him of a certain place where he would find his child's clothes.

Clarke immediately set out with a constable to the indicated spot, found the clothes, as he
had been told he would do, and returned to Natchez. The accused was again put at the bar, and
said, after frequently contradicting himself, that the child was still alive, but that, if
they kept him longer in prison, it would inevitably die of hunger. Nothing could persuade him
to say where the boy was, or to give one syllable of further explanation.

Meantime the quarter-sessions commenced, and the prisoner was brought up for trial. An immense
concourse of persons had assembled to witness the proceedings in this remarkable case. Every
thing was done to induce the accused to confess, but all in vain. Promises of free pardon,
and even of reward, were made to him, if he told where the child was; but the man maintained
an obstinate silence. He at last again changed his story, retracted his previous declaration
as to his knowledge of where the boy was, said he had found the clothes, which he had recognised
by the descriptions that had been every where advertised, and that it was that which had put
it into his head to write to the father, in hopes of making his profit by so doing. In the
absence of witnesses, although there was strong suspicion, there could be no proof of his having
committed the crime in question. In America, circumstantial evidence is always received with
extreme caution and reluctance; and even the fact of the child's clothes having been found
in the place the prisoner had pointed out, was insufficient to induce the jury to find the
latter guilty of the capital charge brought against him. Many of the lawyers, indeed, were
of opinion, that the man's last story was true, that he had found the clothes, and, being a
desperate character and in needy circumstances, had written the letter for purposes of extortion.
Of this offence only was he found guilty, and condemned, as a vagrant and impostor, to a few
months' imprisonment. By the American laws no severer punishment could be awarded. The one,
however, was far from satisfying the public. There was something so infernal in the malignant
sneer of the culprit, in the joy with which he contemplated the sufferings of the bereaved
father, and the anxiety of the numerous friends of the latter, that a shudder of horror and
disgust had frequently run through the court during the trial. Even the coolest and most practised
lawyers had not been free from this emotion, and they declared that they had never witnessed
such obduracy.

The inhabitants of Natchez, especially of the upper town, are, generally speaking, a highly
intelligent and respectable class of people; but upon this occasion they lost all patience
and self-control, and proceeded to an extreme measure, which only the peculiar circumstances
of the case could in any degree justify. Without previous notice, they assembled in large numbers
upon the night of the 31st of January, with a firm determination to correct for once the mildness
of the laws, and to take the punishment o the criminal into their own hands. They opened the
prison, brought out the culprit, and after tying him up, a number of stout negroes proceeded
to flog him severely with whips of bullock's hide.

For a long time the man bore his punishment with extraordinary fortitude, and remained obstinately
silent when questions were put to him concerning the stolen child. At last, however, he could
bear the pain no longer, and promised a full confession. He named a house on the banks of the
Mississippi, some fifty miles from Natchez, the owner of which, he said, knew where the child
was to be found.

The sheriff had, of course, not been present at these Lynch-law proceedings, of which he was
not aware till they were over, but of which he probably in secret did not entirely disapprove.
No sooner, however, was he told of the confession that had been extorted from the prisoner,
than he set off at once in the middle of the night, accompanied by Clarke, for the house that
had been pointed out. They arrived there at noon on the following day, and found it inhabited
by a respectable family, who had heard of the child having been stolen, but, beyond that, knew
nothing of the matter. The mere suspicion of participation in such a crime, seemed in the highest
degree painful and offensive to them. It was soon made evident that the prisoner had invented
the story, in order to procure a cessation of his punishment of the previous night.

The fatigues and constant disappointments that poor Clarke had endured, had worn him out, and
at last again stretched him on a bed of sickness. His life was for a long time despaired of,
but he finally recovered, and shortly afterwards the term of imprisonment to which the child-stealer
(for such the public persisted in considering Tully) had been condemned, expired. There was
no pretext for detaining him, and he was set at liberty. Clarke was advised to endeavour to
obtain from him, by money and good treatment, some information concerning the child. Both father
and mother threw themselves at the man's feet, implored him to name his own reward, but to
tell them what had become of their son.

"You have flogged and imprisoned me," replied the man, with one of his malicious grins; "you
would have hung me if you could; you have done all in your power to make me miserable. It is
now my turn."

And he obstinately refused to say a word on the subject of the lost child. He left town, accompanied
by Clarke, who clung to him like his shadow, in the constant hope that he would at last make
a revelation They crossed the Mississippi together, and on arriving behind Concordia, the bereaved
father once more besought Tully to tell him what had become of his son, swearing that, if he
did not do so, he would dog him day and night, but that he should never escape alive out of
his hands. The man asked how long he would give him. "Six-and-thirty hours" was the reply Tully
walked on for some time beside Clarke and his wife, apparently deep in thought. On a sudden
he sprang upon the backwoodsman, snatched a pistol from his belt, and fired it at his head.
The weapon missed fire. Tully saw that his murderous attempt had failed, and apprehensive doubtless
of the punishment that it would entail, he leaped, without an instant's hesitation, into the
deepest part of a creek by which they were walking. He sank immediately, the water closed over
his head, and he did not once reappear. His body was found a couple of hours afterwards, but
no trace was ever discovered of the Stolen Child.[1]

[1] Various particulars of the above incident may be found in the Mississippi newspapers, of
the years 1825-6.

M. GIRARDIN.

A word, before we speak of the lectures of M. Saint-Marc Girardin, on a topic which stands
at the threshold of dramatic criticism. What is the nature of that imitation of life at which
the drama aims, and of that illusion which it creates?

Before the time of Dr Johnson, the learned world were accustomed to insist upon the observance
of the unities, on the ground that they were necessary to uphold the illusion of the theatre.
The doctor, in his preface to Shakspeare, demolished this argument, by showing that the illusion
they were declared so necessary to support, does not, in fact, exist. No man really believes
that the stage before him is Rome, or that he is a contemporary of the Caesars. To insist,
therefore, upon the unities of time and place, is to sacrifice to a grave make-belief the nobler
ends of the drama--the development of character and passion.

Since the appearance of the celebrated preface to Shakspeare, it has been the habit of critics
to speak, not of a delusion, but of an imitation, which is felt to be an imitation, and which
pleases us in great part by this perceived resemblance to an original.

[1] Cours de Littérature Dramatique; ou de l'Usage des Passions dans le Drame. In the far greater
number of instances, we can never have formed any conception of an original of which the actor
and the scene are supposed to present us a picture. Who that witnesses the play of Venice Preserved,
has formed any other image of Jaffier or Pierre than what the actors are presenting to him,
or may already, on some previous occasion, have presented to him? Even when the characters
are strictly historical, the imagination is little better provided. The spectator does not
refer to any faint conception in his own mind of a Brutus, or a Mark Antony, and then derive
his pleasure from watching how closely the mimic representation imitates the original. Very
often the scene must present something entirely new to the imagination, and yet the pleasure
is not diminished on this account. A simple man, who has never seen the interior of a palace,
never looked on royalty, never beheld even a veritable courtier, feels no embarrassment when
he is suddenly called to witness the pomps and miseries of "imperial tragedy."

The imitation of the drama is not that of any specific original; it is a mimic scene, having
human nature for its type. It has a life of its own, constructed from the materials which the
records and observations of real life have supplied. In order to move us, it needs no reference
to any recognised original. It is there in virtue of the vesture of humanity in which it is
clothed, and makes its appeal at once and directly.

It is usual to speak of all the fine arts as imitative arts. The term is not always applicable,
and, when most applicable, requires explanation. What does the poetry of sentiment imitate?
What does a song imitate? How can the term be applied to all that class of poetry where the
writer pours out his own reflections and feelings? The poetry of Wordsworth or of Burns can
no more be said to be imitative, than the conversation of the same men, when, in their hours
of intimate intercourse, the one may have given expression to his philanthropy, and the other
to his friendship. But where the term is most applicable, it requires to be used guardedly.
Even in painting and sculpture, the artist does not imitate the object in its totality--does
not strive to make an approximation to a fac-simile--but he selects certain qualities of the
object for his imitation. The painter confines himself to colour and outline; the sculptor
abstracts the form, and give it us in the marble.

Accordingly, when we stand before a statue, we do not think of a man, and then of the statue
as the imitation of this original; but the statue is itself clothed with some of the qualities
of the human being, which give to the cold marble that half-life which we feel the moment we
look upon it. In the same manner, when the dramatist puts his characters on the stage, they
are not imitations of any definite originals, but they are invested with certain accidents
and attributes of humanity, which give them at once the interest we feel in them, and set them
living and moving in their own mimic world.

And this mimic world is capable of creating an illusion--not such as Dr Johnson combated--but
of a kind he does not appear to have taken into account. The doctor is triumphant when he denies
the existence of that theatrical delusion presupposed as a ground for the unities. We do not,
as soon as the curtain rises, believe ourselves transported to Rome, nor do we take the actor
upon his word, and believe him to be Caesar the moment he proclaims his imperial dignity. The
illusion of the theatre springs directly from the passion with which we are infected, not from
the outward pomp and circumstance of the stage. These, even on the most ignorant of spectators,
produce barely the sentiment of wonder and surprise, never a belief in their reality. The real
illusion of the drama begins, so to speak, not at the beginning, but at the end; it is the
last result, the result of the last vivid word which sprung from the lips of the actor; and
it diffuses a momentary reality over all that stage apparatus, animate and inanimate, which
was there only as a preparation for that vivid word of the poet.

When the curtain rises, we see very plainly--quite unmistakeably--the boarded stage before
us. It may fill with men and women most gorgeously attired, and these may proceed to declare
their rank and condition, and the peculiar dangers which environ them, and still there is nothing
better before us than the boarded stage and the talking actor. But, by and by, the word of
passion is uttered, and the heart beats, and the wooden stage is seen no more, and the actor
is forgotten in his griefs or his anger, and the fictitious position is a real life, and the
pomp and circumstance of the scene, if not believed in, are no longer questioned. We are not
perhaps at Rome, nor is that Mark Antony--for we never knew Mark Antony to recognise him--but
this mimic world has assumed an independent life and reality of its own. When, indeed, the
passion subsides, and the eloquence of the poet is mute, things revert to their matter-of-fact
condition, the actor is again there, and the boards of the stage again become visible.

To the passage we last quoted from Dr Johnson, some other objections suggest themselves; but,
as we have not quoted it in a polemical spirit, but merely to illustrate our own position,
we have no wish to enter upon them. One remark only we will make, and that because it admits
of a general application. Dr Johnson describes the sympathy we feel at the theatre, as the
result of a reference to what our own personal feelings would be in the situation we see represented
on the stage. We do not think that, in order to sympathize with what takes place on the stage,
or in real life, there is any necessity for this circuitous proceeding. We do not detect in
ourselves this constant reference to our own personality, and, least of all, in those moments
when we are most moved. It is enough that there be a vivid conception of any passion, for this
passion to become for a moment our own. If this reference to our probable feelings, in such
or such a position, were necessary, how is it that we men sympathize so promptly and so keenly
in the distresses of the heroine? We certainly do not, for instance, set to work to imagine
ourselves women and mothers--which would be a difficult exercise of the imagination--before
we feel the grief of Constance for the loss of her child. In short, we at once assume to ourselves
the passions of another; we do not wait, as it were, to try them on; to make experiment how
we, with all our dispositions, natural and acquired, should feel in the supposed predicament.

It is far from our intention to give a full and methodical account of the lectures of M. Saint-Marc
Girardin, the perusal of which led us to a reconsideration of some of our critical principles.
They are far above mediocrity, distinguished by strong sense and vivid expression. Their principal
feature is the just and animated protest they contain against the literary taste of the present
day in France; a taste for the perverted, the horrible, the monstrous; a taste that welcomes
Victor Hugo with outstretched arms, and retains but a frigid recollection of Racine. With this
literary taste is intimately connected an unhealthy and feverish condition of the moral sentiments,
against which the lecturer directs his most eloquent attacks; so that his book may be commended
for its sound ethical as well as critical instruction. The circumstance that the lectures were
delivered before the University of Paris, renders this strain of remark still more appropriate
and useful.

Such a strain of remark, based as it is upon general principles, cannot be useless in our own
country; although we do not suspect that the same perverted taste which meets its reproof in
these lectures is common amongst us. Were we called upon to describe the malady under which
our countrymen labour in respect to literary taste, we should describe it as a state of torpor
and lethargy, rather than of virulent disease. It is indifference, more than any morbid taste,
which an imaginative work would have to struggle against in this country. There is little necessity
here to guard the public against any species of literary enthusiasm; certain writers of very
dubious merit may be extensively read, but they are not esteemed. It is only necessary to listen
to the conversation that goes on around us, to be convinced that the extensive circulation
of a book has ceased to be a decisive proof even of its popularity. We seem too idle, or too
busy, to give attention to a thoughtful literature which is not at the same time professional--and
we have too much good sense amongst us to admire the sort of clever trash we are contented
to read and to talk about. For something in leisure hours must be read. A book must be had,
if only as a companion for the sofa, if only to place in the hand, as we place the ottoman
under our feet, to steady and complete our repose.

We will at once introduce a striking quotation from the author before us, which has immediate
reference to the Lucrèce Borgia of Victor Hugo. To those who have not read the play it is only
necessary to observe, in order to understand what follows, that Victor Hugo, with that violent
effort after a moral novelty which distinguishes him, has chosen to represent the infamous
Lucretia Borgia as under the influence of maternal love, while in all other respects she fully
sustains her odious and infernal reputation.

     The author wished, he tells us in his preface, to retrieve
     the moral deformity of Lucretia Borgia by the beauty of the
     maternal sentiment; he wished, according to his own
     energetic expression, 'to place the mother in the monster.'
     Here let us make a distinction. I admire the tenderness
     which the most ferocious animals have for their offspring,
     and when the dying lioness covers her young with her wounded
     and bleeding body, I admire and am moved. But a woman who is
     a mother ought, in her tenderness to her children, to have
     more intelligence, more of elevation of thought, than the
     lioness. Instinct is not enough; there must be a sentiment,
     a sentiment which does not exclude, but perfects and
     purifies the instinct. Thus, when in Florence, a mother cast
     herself in desperation before the lion who had taken her
     child, and the lion, astonished at her despair, or perhaps
     comprehending it, replaced the infant at her feet, it was
     instinct which impelled the mother, and it was probably
     instinct in the lion which responded to her. But good
     instincts, whatever admirable actions they may occasionally
     produce, are but the germ and commencement of human virtues;
     they are indeed radically distinguished from human virtue by
     this, that, of themselves, however strong, they are sterile:
     a good instinct dwells by the side of a bad without effort
     to reform or to purify it, and equally without danger of
     being itself perverted. One virtue only in a vicious
     character might convert it entirely to virtue, as one vice
     only in a virtuous might lead it to utter depravation. But
     an instinct, however good, supports without disquietude the
     neighbourhood of evil, and it is thus that, in Lucretia
     Borgia, the mother and the monster are placed side by side,
     without affecting, without combating each other. Now there
     is nothing less natural, and nothing less dramatic than this
     mutual toleration. Characters wherein good and evil are
     mixed together, are dramatic, only because the conflict of
     opposite sentiments which takes place in the mind, is
     brought before the view of the spectator. But where, in
     Lucretia, is the struggle between good and evil? At what
     moment does the maternal virtue enlighten and purify this
     soul lost in darkness? When does this transfiguration take
     place, so marvellous and yet so natural? * * *

     It is singular, and marks the change which has taken place
     in our moral notions. Formerly poets gave to their
     personages one only vice or passion, taking care in other
     respects to render them virtuous, in order that they should
     be worthy of interest; at the present day, our poets give
     their personages I know not how many passions and vices,
     with one only virtue as a counterpoise. And this virtue,
     weak and solitary, is by no means charged with the task of
     purifying the corrupted mind in which it has by chance been
     preserved. It carefully respects the independence of those
     vices which permit it to dwell with them. Neither is it
     commissioned to inspire an interest in the spectator;
     because it is vice which now inspires all our interest,
     thanks to a certain noble and proud bearing which has been
     assigned to it, and which has been imitated from the heroes
     of Lord Byron.

M. Girardin, it will have been remarked from the above extract, is disposed to reproach our
Lord Byron as the source from which some of his countrymen have drawn their dark inspiration.
This may be true. But without defending our Byron from charges to which he is manifestly exposed,
let us say thus much for him, that in his poetry he was still too much a classic not to be
a worshipper of the beautiful; that he did not court for itself the monstrous, the ugly; his
mind did not willingly associate with what was revolting in outward form or human passion.
If there was any thing Satanic, as some were pleased to express it, in his poetry, he was not,
at all events, of the hobgoblin or demoniac school. It was the Satan of Milton, with its ruined
beauty and clouded dignity, that had taken possession of his imagination. He delighted to depict
the pride, the love, the generosity, of hearts at war with man, and not on too good terms with
heaven; but still it was their pride, their love, their generosity, that occupied his imagination.
They are bad men; he takes care to tell us so himself; but he has not the heart to make them
act otherwise than as noble fellows while they are under his guidance. The Corsair, from his
very name and profession, is a declared criminal; but this once said, the poet occupies himself
and his reader with nothing but what is generous and heroic in Conrad. Byron had no disposition,
had a certain antipathy, to paint the virtuous man; but it was a virtue, nevertheless, that
attracted his pencil. He felt it necessary, as a preliminary condition, to remove his hero
from the category of good men; but this being fairly done, he resigned himself to the natural
bent for what is good and great. A Borgia, whether male or female, in all its native deformity,
was not the subject to allure him.

Nowhere is the rebuke of M. Girardin of certain of his contemporaries, more dignified, or more
justly merited, than where, discoursing on the manner in which the moderns have delineated
paternal love, he reproves that exaggeration and falsification which has represented the father
describing the affection he bears to his daughter in a style of language devoted to another
species of love. Nothing can be more odious and offensive than to transgress, even in language,
the bounds between the two affections, and to put into the mouth of a parent, as Victor Hugo
and Balzac have done, a style appropriate to the lover speaking of his mistress. But we will
not quote these passages from M. Girardin, because they will require long quotations in order
to justify the censure contained in them. At the close of the lecture upon paternal love, we
find the following general remarks on the composition of a modern French drama; and the slightest
acquaintance with this drama will enable the reader to appreciate their justice and analytic
accuracy:--

     Formerly a dramatic character was an assemblage of
     qualities good and bad, which, on the one hand, were in
     conflict amongst themselves, and, on the other, were
     subjected to some superior law of religion, of honour, or of
     patriotism. This twofold struggle constituted the interest
     of the person brought upon the scene, and this superior law,
     which he strove to accomplish, constituted the morality of
     his character. According to the incidents of the piece, each
     passion might take the ascendant, none being represented as
     irresistible; and the moral law which predominated over the
     drama, did not prevent this play of the passions--it being
     visibly suspended during the whole piece over the heads of
     the personages, and receiving its fulfilment only at the
     close. In the present day dramatic characters are composed
     differently. Instead of representing the whole of the
     character, and the struggle between its good and evil
     passions, one only passion is selected, which is made
     violent, irresistible, fatal, the absolute mistress of all
     the others; that is to say, a part is taken instead of the
     whole. At the same time the moral law which, in the ancient
     drama, (i.e. the drama of Racine and Corneille,) sustained
     also a struggle against the passions--this law which those
     even avowed who transgressed it, which had always its place
     in the piece, whether through virtue or remorse--this law
     also disappears before the ascendency of the sovereign
     passion. No counterpoise of any kind, whether on the side of
     rival passions or on the side of duty. What remains, then,
     to struggle against this arbitrary passion? Nothing but
     chance--circumstance--the hazard of events. And thus it is
     that, in the modern drama, the interest resides rather in
     the strange complication of events than in the shock of
     opposite passions. The poet has only the power of chance, a
     power sovereignly capricious, to contend against the passion
     he has chosen to represent. And thus it is that the modern
     drama has something also of arbitrary and fantastic.
     Incidents and theatrical effects are accumulated, but the
     incidents do not spring from the natural movement of the
     passions brought upon the stage; they have no longer their
     cause in the characters of the drama; they issue from the
     fancy of the poet, who, feeling the necessity of arousing
     his spectators from time to time, complicates the action
     after a strange fashion, and aims always at surprise.

M. Girardin has a lecture upon suicides, in which he attacks that sentimentality--a mixture,
in reality, of weakness and impatience--which in modern literature, and in modern life, often
conducts to suicide. The following passage will be acknowledged to be eloquent, and even poetic,
unless our translation of it shall have entirely obscured its beauty. After having described
the proud and philosophical suicides of ancient Rome, he adds:--

     There is another species of suicide more in credit in our
     days, which is rather occasioned by the weakness and
     impatience of men than by the violence of their passions, or
     the eccentricity of their philosophies. This species of
     suicide is so much the peculiar malady of our times, that we
     are tempted to think that men are now for the first time
     infected by it. But no; there exists a literature which has
     already expressed this our state of restlessness and
     disquietude, which has described men consuming with
     melancholy in the midst of riotous joys, and seeking suicide
     rather as the natural termination of their career than the
     remedy of their evils. It is the literature of the fathers
     of the church.

     I find amongst the homilies of St Chrysostom a certain
     Stagyra who was possessed by a demon. To be possessed by a
     demon is certainly not a malady of our times; but yet we do
     not wander from our theme. For the demon of Stagyra--it is
     melancholy, despondency, or, in the much more powerful
     expression of the Greek, it is athumia--exhaustion of all
     energy, all vitality of the soul. This is the demon of
     Stagyra. He is one of those sick and agitated souls who
     think they belong to the selected portion of mankind,
     because they want the energy of the vulgar; who contrive for
     themselves pleasures and afflictions apart from the rest of
     the world, and who (last trait of weakness and impatience)
     at once despise and envy the simplicity and the calm of
     those whom they call little souls. Stagyra, in order to
     deliver his spirit from its disquietudes, had entered into a
     monastery; but neither there did he find the peace and
     lightness of heart which he craved; for man finds at first,
     in solitude, that only which he brings to it. Stagyra
     complains to the saint--and the complaint is curious, for it
     indicates the knowledge of a cure for the evils which
     torment him, and shows that Stagyra, like many other
     patients, had neither resolution to support his disease, nor
     to accept its remedy. 'You complain,' says St Chrysostom,
     'that while you, with all your fasts, and vigils, and
     monastic austerities, have failed to appease your
     disquietudes, others who, like yourself, had been tormented
     by the demon of melancholy, while living in the midst of
     idle pleasures and luxurious indulgence, have found a remedy
     in marriage, and felt themselves cured the moment they
     became fathers.' A sentence this full of sound instruction.
     It is not, then, because life is devoid of pleasure, that
     men are the prey of melancholy. That demon pierced, it is
     true, like a gnawing worm, through all the luxuries of the
     Roman world; there was no resource against it, either in
     beautiful slaves, or Ionian dances, or magnificent repasts,
     or the combats of gladiators, or Milesian tales, or the
     voluptuous pictures which garnish the walls of Pompeii and
     Herculaneum. Athumia poisoned all, and the demon possessed
     the voluptuary in the midst even of the debauch. But if,
     fatigued with these alternate pleasures and disgusts, he
     adopted regular and simple manners, married and had
     had children, then, as if by enchantment the demon quitted him.
     No more despondency, no more bitterness. The spirit of the
     possessed was revived, refreshed, renewed by the caresses of
     his children. There is no demon, not even the demon of
     melancholy, which dares to encounter the presence of a
     little child. There is in the innocent fresh breathing of
     these creatures, something mortal to evil spirits, and a
     cradled infant in the house is sure talisman against all
     demoniac possession.

     What is it, in fact, which man requires, in order to escape
     from this athumia, this exhaustion of the heart? Hope--a
     future. He must have a faith in the future. This is the
     nourishment of his soul; without it he cannot live, he
     despairs and dies. Well, the very charm of children, that
     which has ranked them, from of old, amongst the blessings of
     God, is this, that they form the future of every family--
     that they sustain in every house that sentiment by which the
     soul of man lives. Children represent the future, and in a
     form the most joyous and attractive. It is this which
     constitutes their irresistible fascination--it is this which
     sheds around their little heads that light of happiness and
     joy which reflects itself on the countenances of the
     parents--which warms the heart--which gives to the poor the
     force to labour, and to the miserable the force to live.
     Blessed be infancy, which chases the demon!--Blessed be
     infancy, which keeps alive in each family the sentiment of
     hope, indispensable to run as the air and the light!

Amongst the faults of his contemporaries, M. Girardin remarks a disposition to materialize
the expression of passion, depicting it constantly by violent physical distortions; and also,
a tendency to carry that expression to the extremity of rage, where, as he finely observes,
all distinction between the various passions is lost, and man deserts his rational nature.

According to the ancient classic imagination, when passion becomes excessive, the man disappears;
and this, he adds, is the foundation of what we call the philosophy of the Metamorphoses of Ovid.

In the course of this censure he makes use of a common-place expression, which, we think, includes
a common-place error, and therefore we pause for a moment to take notice of it. "It is the
pretension of modern art," he tells us, "to say all. What then is left to the imagination of
the public? It is often well to trust to the spectator to complete the idea of the poet or
the statuary."

This is a mode of expression frequently made use of. Even Lessing has sanctioned it, when in
his Laocoon, he speaks of "the highest expression leaving nothing to the imagination."

The leaving something to the imagination can mean this only, that the expression of the artist
is suggestive, and kindles thought, and in fact conveys more than is found in its literal interpretation.
Now, whatever is highest in art, and especially in poetry, is pre-eminently suggestive; and
the highest expression does in fact leave most, or, in other words, suggest most, to the imagination.
M. Girardin, in common with many others, speaks of this suggestive quality, the characteristic
of the highest form of art, as if it were the result of a voluntary surrender of something
by the poet to the reader, as if it were an act of moderation on his part. Surely the poet
does not proceed on the principle of saying half, and permitting us to say the other half--out
of compliment, perhaps, to our understanding, and as a little bribe to our vanity. The more
vivid and powerful his expressions, the more must he leave, or rather the more must he give,
indirectly as well as directly, to the imagination of the reader. He will sometimes even bestow
what he himself never possessed. The great poet, in pouring out his feelings, must always give
something less and something more than was in him at the time.

It has been the fashion to illustrate the principle of leaving something to the imagination,
by the ancient picture of the sacrifice of Iphigenia, where we are told that Agamemnon, the
father, was painted hiding his face in his robe. The expression of grief and horror had been
given in the countenance of the other bystanders, and it was left to the imagination to divine
what passion would have been seen depicted on the face of Agamemnon if that robe had been torn
aside. Lessing, and after him M. Girardin, have indeed given a different account of the intention
of the painter. The Greek artist, say they, sedulously avoided that distortion of features
through excessive grief, which was incompatible with beauty of form. They would tone down the
expression, as Lessing argues that the sculptor did in the features of Laocoon, until it became
consistent with the lines of beauty. Timanthes, therefore, finding that, in order to render
with fidelity the expression of Agamemnon, he must admit such a distortion of the features
as would violate the rule, chose rather to veil the countenance. But we would suggest that
something else must have weighed with the artist; for if it was an acknowledged principle of
Greek art rather to sacrifice a portion of the passion, so to speak, than to admit a distortion
of the features, why should Timanthes have felt any scruple, in this instance, in modifying
the expression of the father's countenance in obedience to a known rule of art? Why should
he have thought himself obliged to resort to the expedient of concealing the face?

We make bold to adopt neither one account nor the other. We neither believe that Timanthes
concealed the expression of the father's face upon some principle of "leaving it to the imagination
of the reader," nor that he acted in obedience to the rule of art which Lessing lays down with
so much ingenuity. We are persuaded that Timanthes painted Agamemnon in the attitude he did,
simply because it was the most natural--because it was, in fact, the only attitude in which
it was possible to conceive a father present at the sacrifice of his own daughter. Other spectators
might have looked on with different degrees of grief or horror, but we feel that the father
could not look; he must veil his head. This natural attitude, bespeaking the grief it only
seemed to hide, was no doubt highly expressive.

And in this point of view, it may afford no bad illustration of that suggestive language of
poetry, which sometimes throws the veil, not to conceal the passion, or to leave it to another
imagination to discover, but as the best means of betraying it.

We repeat that we do not profess to give any thing approaching to an analytical review of the
lectures of M. Girardin; the illustrations, being taken from the poetry of another nation,
would often require a length of explanatory detail quite inconsistent with our limits. We persist,
therefore, in regarding them in the one point of view already indicated-namely, as a protest
against certain vitiated tastes and deleterious sentiments which prevail at the present day.

We again revert, therefore, to the lecture upon suicide, for the sake of a remark that we find
there upon Werther, and on its celebrated author. It is rarely that we hear any one speak out
so plainly upon Goethe. After speaking of the "moral vitality" which supports the fatigues
and inures us to the self-denials of life, he says:--

     There are characters, on the contrary, who we perceive, at
     first sight, are predestined to die. Ardent and enthusiastic,
     wanting force and patience--life is evidently not made for them.
     Such is Werther. Goethe had not created him to live, and he knew
     this well; so that when some German author, I know not whom,
     undertook to correct the catastrophe of the romance, and make
     Werther live instead of committing suicide, Goethe said--'The poor
     man has no idea that the evil is without remedy, and that a mortal
     insect has stung our Werther in the flower of his youth.'

     What is this mortal insect that has stung the youth of
     Werther? Mistake it not, it is the spirit of doubt, the
     spirit of the eighteenth century; and it is not Werther only
     that the insect has stung--it is Goethe himself. Goethe
     belongs to the eighteenth century; he is its disciple, its
     heir; he is, like it, the sceptic, but he is also the poet.
     It is this which conceals his universal doubt. Besides, as
     he perceived, with that admirable tact which accompanies his
     genius, that his scepticism would injure his poetry, he has
     laboured to correct its influence, and, for this purpose,
     has called to his aid all the resources of art and science.
     He has adored nature, he has been a pantheist, he has distributed
     God everywhere, to compensate for not having him in his own heart;
     he has adored Greece, and rendered a sort of worship to beauty
     such as the Greeks conceived it, and endeavoured to find an
     enthusiasm in the arts; he has adored the south, and sung the Land
     of the orange grove, because the south is the region of strong
     faiths, and is repugnant to scepticism; he has adored the middle
     ages, because they were ignorant of doubt, everywhere he has
     sought to cure the wound of that insect which had stung his youth.
     But no; his scepticism pierces through all his enthusiasm, and the
     very variety of his inspirations proves his indifference. He is
     neither philosopher, nor devotee, nor Christian, nor pagan, nor
     courtier, nor citizen, nor of times ancient or modern, nor of the
     north, nor of the south-or rather, he is all these at once. He is
     the echo of nature, he repeats to us all her harmonies; but he
     fails to add that utterance, which unites so well with the
     harmonies of the world the utterance of his own heart. Ask of
     Goethe to represent man and nature in all their variety and
     extent, and he will do it. There is one thing you must not ask of
     him--himself. This self fails in Goethe; not the self which
     knows it is a great poet, and will to be one; but that other self,
     which has a thought, a principle to contend for, which, in
     short, believes in something. It is there the insect stung; both
     in Goethe and in Werther.

After discussing the character of modern French literature, there remains the important question
to determine, how far the state of literature represents the state of society--how far the
one is a faithful picture of the other. Upon this subject M. Girardin concludes his volume
with some excellent remarks; but here we must also conclude our notice of this interesting work.

LORD ELDON.

In a free country, if there ever was or will be a truly free country besides our own, the life
of every public man ought to be written. All would supply a lesson of more or less value; and
it is upon lessons of that order that the vigour of the rising generation can alone be trained.
Undoubtedly, in the mixed qualities of human nature, there might now and then be formidable
displays; the development of the heart might often startle the eye which looked to it for healthy
action; the machinery of the mind would require to be examined with the hand of charity as
well as the hand of science: but the general result must be knowledge--always interesting,
and often of the highest value; for the tendency of manners is, to disappoint that research.
The habits, the associations, almost the general peace of society, unite in covering the actual
nature of man with a uniform aspect. The unquestionable effect of civilization is, not merely
to smooth the inequalities of the surface, but to conceal the actual material--the rough, the
hard, the cold, or the pernicious within. But there is no one operation of man, by which human
nature is so deeply and so distinctly penetrated and tested, as a true narrative of the career
of men acting a prominent part in the world. History is comparatively feeble to this powerful
searcher. Its heroes and heroines are placed so palpably on a stage; its dramatis personae
are so distant and so disciplined; its positions are so openly arranged for effect, that the
nearest approach is only conjecture, as the nearest approach to reality is only illusion. Courts
and campaigns are not human life. Kings and ministers, in their court pageantry, are scarcely
more entitled to the name of human beings. They are factitious forms, showy spectacles, glittering
effigies. But strip off the state costume; stand beside them while they are unconscious of
a spectator; enter into their minds; seize their motives; measure their impulses: it is only
then that we discover their affinity to the family of man, and by their vigour and virtue model
our own.

The life of the Earl of Eldon is an important addition to public biography. Written by a lawyer,
it has the advantage of professional knowledge--by a man of a certain experience in public,
and even in official life, it exhibits that practical knowledge of affairs which nothing but
practice can gain--and by a man of literary accomplishment, it adds, to its more solid merits,
those graces of style which supply the last attraction to a work of manly utility. We feel
even, in some degree, an uncritical, yet a not less authentic satisfaction in giving our tribute
to the work of one connected with a family, whose name brings to the public mind such deep
recollections of fine ability finely employed--of talents combined with the noblest triumphs
of past genius and of forms and countenances eminently fitted to represent the grand and beautiful
of the classic drama of England.

The father of Lord Eldon was William Scott, a merchant of good means and good repute at Newcastle,
his principal business being connected with the coal trade. He lived to be seventy-nine years
old, and his wife (a second marriage) to be ninety-one. By her he had thirteen children, of
whom John (Lord Eldon) was the eighth. William (Lord Stowell) was born in 1745, the year of
the Scottish invasion, in Heworth, where his mother had been sent for her accouchement, to
avoid the perils, Newcastle then expecting a siege. After her return to Newcastle, she gave
birth to John, June 4, 1751. The house was situated at the end of one of those narrow streets,
which in the native dialect are called chares, the extremity being a "chare-foot." A bar story
is told of a judge on circuit, who hearing a witness depose that he had seen three men come
out of a "chare-foot," desired the jury to disregard his evidence altogether, as none but a
madman could say that he saw three men come out of the "foot of a chair." Lord Eldon appears
to have been so fond of the jest, that he once stated in the Court of Chancery, that "he had
been born in a chair-foot." At the suitable age, John and his brothers were sent to the Foundation
Grammar School of Newcastle, then under the headship of one Moises, fellow of Peterhouse. His
predecessor had been Dawes, the well-known author of the "Miscellanea Critica"--an able scholar,
but only an additional example of the frequent insufficiency of scholars to teach. Dawes was
eccentric, and injured the reputation of the school. His predominant propensity while in Newcastle
was bell-ringing. On his leaving that place he adopted a new taste, that of rowing. If Moises
had any peculiar taste, it seems to have been flogging.

"I was once," said Lord Eldon, "the seventeenth boy whom Moises flogged, and richly did we
merit it. There was an elderly lady who lived in Westgate Street, whom we surrounded, and would
not allow her to go either backward or forward. She complained, and he flogged us all. When
he came to me, he exclaimed, 'What, John Scott! were you there too?' And I was obliged to say,
'Yes, sir.' 'I will not stop,' said he, 'you shall all have it.' But I think I came off best,
for his arm was rather tired with the sixteen who went before me."

A flogging may be all very well in its recollection fifty years after. But the impression of
the moment was, we presume, not quite so favourable. The inevitable consequence of this habit
was to spoil both master and scholars. It made the timid boy pusillanimous, while it made the
fierce more indignant and resentful. What could be the feelings of the master who could inflict
almost agony on seventeen mere children, let the offence be what it might? Yet the offence
was trifling; troublesome behaviour to an old woman in the street. A slight reprimand, or trivial
fine, would have properly finished the affair; but then comes the flagellation.

But our great public schools exhibit another offence; the system of fagging alike foolish and
mischievous. It only teaches the elder boys to be tyrants, and the younger to be liars and
slaves. In practice, it promises to correct itself, by destroying the great schools. The proprietary
schools, and other institutions for the education of the people, have uniformly discountenanced
this abominable nuisance; and we know none whose abolition would do more credit to the heads
of the church, or, if they should remain indolent on the subject, to the heads of the legislature.

William Scott, in 1761, was sent to Oxford as a candidate for a Durham scholarship, which he
obtained, but which was perilled by a blunder of the head of Corpus Christi college. This worthy
person delivered his opinion in this style:--"I think, gentlemen, there can be no doubt that
young Scott is by far the best scholar of them. But he has told us that his father is a fiddler,
and I do not quite like to take the son of a fiddler into the college." The doctor was an ass
for his dictum; and it is only to be regretted that he did not live to express this impudent
opinion in our day. England is certainly growing more rational, whatever colleges may be. Language
of that sort, used in a country which boasts that no artificial impediment can be suffered
to exist in the career of genius and virtue, would quickly meet the reception merited by its
arrogant absurdity. The "fiddler" was a blunder of the doctor for "fitter," the local name
of the coal trade.

William, in his twentieth year, became a tutor; John was intended for a coal-merchant, but
his brother desired that he should be sent to Oxford. "Send Jack up to me," were the words;
"I can do better for him here." He was then under fifteen.

A striking anecdote marks his first starting in life. "When I left school to go to Oxford,"
said Lord Eldon, "I came up from Newcastle to London in a coach, then denominated, on account
of its quick travelling, 'a Fly,' being three or four days and nights on the road. On the panels
were the words, Sat cito, si sat bene, (Fast enough, if well enough,) which made a most lasting
impression on my mind, and have had their influence on my conduct in all subsequent life."
He then exhibits a specimen of that sly humour which characterized him to the last.

"A Quaker fellow-traveller stopped the coach at the inn at Tuxford to give the chambermaid
a sixpence, telling her that he had forgotten it when he slept there two years before. I was
a very saucy boy, and I said to him, 'Friend, have you seen the motto on the coach?' 'No.'
'Then look at it, for I think giving her only sixpence now is neither sat cito nor sat bene."

On his arrival in London, he was overturned, with his brother, in a sedan chair. "This," thought
he, "is more than sat cito, and it certainly is not sat bene." He concludes more gravely by
saying, "It was this impression which made me that deliberative judge, as some have said too
deliberative. And reflection upon all that is past, will not authorize me to deny, that while
I have been thinking, 'Sat cito, si sat bene,' I may not have sufficiently remembered whether
'Sat bene, si sat cito' has had its due influence."

The chief feature of this portion of the biography is its recollections of remarkable persons.
We have heard this one of Johnson before: but the names and place are now first given from
Lord Eldon's anecdote-book. He was at this period on the point of proceeding to India as judge.)
Sir Robert was gathering snails, and throwing them over the wall into his neighbour's garden.
The doctor attacked him roughly, and charged his conduct as being unneighbourly. 'Sir,' said
Sir Robert, 'my neighbour is a dissenter.' 'Oh,' said the doctor, 'if so, toss away, toss away
as hard as you can!'"

This was evidently one of Johnson's odd freaks, a piece of his growling humour; for though
no man disliked sectarianism more, no man had a stronger sense of charity to all.

His manners now and then exhibited strange absence. Lord Eldon says that he had seen him standing
for a considerable time, with one foot on each side of the kennel of the High Street of Oxford,
gazing at the water.

It was proverbially dangerous to contradict him. Dr Mortimer, head of Lincoln college, happened
occasionally to interrupt him, by saying, "I deny that," while Johnson was holding forth. At
length he said, "Sir, sir, you must have forgotten that an author has said, (he then repeated
in Latin,) one ass will deny more in one hour, than a hundred philosophers will prove in a
hundred years."

During the year 1774 and 1775, John Scott held the office of a tutor of University college;
but he appears to have left the duty to Fisher and William Scott, his brother, those two dividing
the emoluments. However, he was more importantly employed when he gave lectures on the law
as deputy to Sir Robert Chambers, for which he had L.60 a-year. His first essay was sufficiently
ridiculous. The law professor sent him his first lecture, which he was to read immediately
to the students, and which he began, without knowing its contents. It happened to be on the
statute 4th and 5th, Philip and Mary, on young men running away with young women. "Fancy me,"
said his lordship, "reading with about 140 boys and young men giggling at the professor." While
Scott was eating his terms at the Middle Temple, he had some opportunities of seeing Mr Sergeant
Hill, the great lawyer of his day, eminent for learning, and scarcely less so for eccentricity.
Hill one day stopped Scott in the hall, and said, "Pray, young gentleman, do you think herbage
and pannage rateable to the poor's rate?" Scott replied "that he could not presume to give
an opinion to so learned a personage." "Upon my word," said the sergeant, "you are a pretty
sensible young gentlemen--I don't often meet with such. If I had asked Mr Burgess, a young
leader upon our circuit, the question, he would have told me that I was an old fool." Hill
began an argument in the King's Bench thus:--"My Lord Mansfield and judges, I beg your pardon."--"Why
brother Hill, do you ask our pardon?"--"My lords," said he, "I have seventy-eight cases to
cite."--"Seventy-eight cases!" said Lord Mansfield; "you can never have our pardon if you cite
seventy-eight cases!" After the court had given its decision, which was against the sergeant's
client, Lord Mansfield said, "Now, brother Hill, that the judgment is given, you can have no
objections, on account of your client, to tell us your real opinion, and whether you do not
think we are right; you know how we all value your opinion and judgment." Hill wished to be
excused; but as he always thought it his duty to do what the court desired, "Upon my word,"
said he, "I did not think that there were four men in the world who could have given such an
ill-founded judgment as you four, my lords, have pronounced." This style, however, must have
been now and then intolerable.

When Baron Hotham was placed in the Exchequer, he gave a dinner, as is usual on those occasions,
at Sergeant's Inn, to the judges and sergeants. Hotham had been unsuccessful at the bar. Hill,
in drinking his health, called him Baron Botham. Somebody whispered the real name to him. Hill
said aloud, "I beg your pardon, Mr Baron Hotham; but none of us ever heard your name in the
profession before this day." In justice to the baron, however, Lord Eldon adds the following
note:--"The Baron made an extremely good judge. He had not much legal learning; but he had
an excellent understanding, great discretion, unwearied patience, and his manners were extremely
engaging; and those qualities ensuring to him in a very large measure the assistance of the
bar, he executed his duties as a judge with great sufficiency."

Shortly after his commencing the profession, Scott reduced himself into a state of invalidism
by excessive study. In 1774, when he and Cookson, another invalid, were returning to Oxford
from Newcastle, where they had gone to vote at the general election, the good-natured cook
of the inn at Birmingham, where they arrived at eleven at night, insisted on dressing something
hot for them, saying that she was sure neither of them would live to see her again. A medical
friend remonstrated with him on the severity of his studies. "It is not matter," answered Scott,
"I must either do as I am now doing, or starve." He rose at four in the morning, observed a
careful abstinence at his meals, and, to prevent drowsiness, read at night with a wet towel
round his head. At last it became necessary, as the time of being called to the bar approached,
to provide a dwelling in London. In his latter days, he pointed out a house in Cursitor Street.
"There," said he, "was my first perch. Many a time have I run down from that house to Fleet
Market, to get sixpennyworth of sprats for supper." At this period, in mentioning to his brother
the kindness of a great conveyancer, Mr Duane, whom he attended as a gratuitous pupil, he says--"This
conduct of his has taken a great load of uneasiness off my mind; as, in fact, our profession
is so exceedingly expensive that I almost sink under it. I have got a house barely sufficient
to hold my small family, which will, in rent and taxes, cost me L.60. I have been buying books,
too, for the last ten years; but I have got the mortification to find that, before I can settle,
that article of trade--for so I consider it--will cost me near L.200." Of Duane's service to
him, he said, a little more than a fortnight before his death, "The knowledge I acquired of
conveyancing in his office, was of infinite service to me during a long life in the Court of
Chancery."

In Hilary Term 1776, Scott was called to the bar by the Society of the Middle Temple. When
we recollect what a leviathan of wealth the Lord Chancellor was in his latter days, it is amusing
to read the statement of his early struggles, however painful they must have been at the time.
What a stingy dog I must have been to make such a bargain! I would not have done so afterwards.
But, however, so it was-- that was our agreement; and how do you think that it turned out?
In the twelfth month I received half-a-guinea. Eighteen-pence went for fees, and Bessy got
nine shillings. In the other eleven months I got not one shilling." This was but sorry encouragement;
but such is the profession. Men must wait. Property, or perhaps life, will not trust themselves
to inexperience; and thus, from the very nature of the Bar, a long period of probation must
be borne by all.

There had been an old and invidious conception which represented the Lord Chancellor as the
son of a coal-heaver. It appears from the memoir that his father was, on the contrary, possessed
of property very considerable in those days. He was what we should now call a broker in the
coal-trade--technically, a coal-fitter or factor--who transacted business between the coal-owner
and the ship-owner. He was intelligent and industrious, and prospered accordingly; leaving,
at his death, property worth L.25,000 to his eldest son William; another L.1000 to John; making,
in the whole, L.3000, and respectable sums to his other children. He appears to have realized
above L.30,000--a sum equal to nearly double at the present day.

Lord Eldon, though all gravity on the bench, and seldom indulging in any sportiveness in parliament,
was a humorist at table, and fond of humorous recollections. His story of Dunning on his travels
has got into print; but, in the hands of a genuine humorist, it must have been an incomparable
ground for burlesque. Dunning, when solicitor-general, had gone to see the Prussian reviews.
Some of these were profoundly secret, and were presumed to be experiments in those tactical
novelties with which Frederick dazzled Europe. But others were showy displays, to which the
king invited the princes and generals of the Continent. Dunning had announced himself as Solicitor-General
of England. Frederick, either knowing nothing of solicitors, though much of generals, or what
is more probable--for he was the most deliberate wag in existence--determining to play the
lawyer a trick, ordered him to be received as a general officer, and provided him with a charger
for his presence at the grand display. Dunning, long unused to ride, soon found that he had
his master under him. The charger, as well disciplined as one of his majesty's grenadiers,
and delighting, like the horse of Joab, in the "trumpets and the shouting" of the captains,
rushed every where with his unwilling rider; and it was not till after a day of terror, in
which his cavalry exploits must have exposed him to frequent laughter, that the lawyer escaped
from the din of battles, and rejoiced to find himself with unfractured bones, resolved never
to play the general officer again.

There may be "some things new under the sun," in contradiction to the proverb; but they are
not many, at least in wit. The story of the celebrated cardinal, who proved that the sun went
round the moon, and vice versa, is sufficiently wall known. Dunning's pleading pro and con.
is vouched for from Scott's personal experience. Dunning led in a cause in which Scott was
junior counsel. The leader so evidently reasoned against his own client, that Scott, after
long amazement, at last touched his arm, and whispered that he was speaking on the wrong side.
Dunning instantly perceived his mistake, and gave him a rough reprimand (we may presume sotto
voce) for having suffered him to go on so long. He then recovered himself with his habitual
dexterity; said that he had stated all that could be urged against his client, and that he
would then proceed to show how utterly futile was the argument.

A good deal of his early life on the circuit was passed with Lee, then the leader of the northern
circuit, and a man of great vigour of mind. A curious question once rose between them on professional
morality. At supper one night, Scott made the remark, that Lee always exerted himself to gain
a verdict by a display of his great legal knowledge; but not always with a regard to the accuracy
of either his law or his facts. Lee contended that it was the duty of counsel to state what
the party himself would have stated, and get a verdict if he could. Lord Eldon adds, in his
rather too dubious way--"It may be questioned whether even this can be supported." Of course
it may. The object of law is to do justice; and justice is not done if the ingenuity of an
able advocate is entitled to gain a false verdict. For how is this to be gained? Either by
a suppression of the truth in part, or by a colouring of the falsehood, or by an invention
of facts, aided by a misinterpretation of law; all palpably against conscience. The true rule
appears to be--the lawyer stands in the place of the client, to do what the client would and
could have done, if he had equal skill in exhibiting the circumstances, and equal knowledge
of the law which bore upon them. But as the client has no right to tell an untruth of any kind
for himself, so neither has the lawyer the right to tell it for him. The lawyer's taking a
brief in a cause of which he has a bad opinion, is wholly a different matter. The custom of
the bar justly decides that he must not refuse the brief, because he cannot be sure that he
knows the whole cause; for facts unexpected, and even unknown, may start up; he may be mistaken
in his personal conception of the facts, the motives, and the law: new facts may come out on
the trial. There is a judge to decide on hearing both sides, and the counsel has no right to
assume the office of the judge. Of course, if he is made aware of any fraud in the conduct
of the case, or even suspects it, he must abandon his brief at once.

Lee's manner was of that rough and ready kind which always tells with a jury. Once, after a
very keen cross-examination, the witness charged him with severity to one who was his relation.
"Why, how do you make that out," said Lee. The man stated the genealogy. "Well," said Lee,
"I believe you are right. I only wish, my good fourth or fifth cousin, you would speak a little
truth for the honour of the family; for not one word of truth have you spoken yet."

Even this able man had gone many years to York without a single brief; and even then began
only on a burlesque case, fabricated by his brother barristers.

Accuracy of recollection is obviously of peculiar importance at the bar; but the profession
has sometimes exhibited surprising instances of this faculty. Lord Eldon spoke of Chief Justice
De Grey's powers of memory as extraordinary. De Grey suffered so much from the gout, the he
used to come into court with both hands wrapped in flannel. He thus could not take a not. "Yet
I have known him," said Lord Eldon, "try a cause that lasted nine or ten hours, and then, from
memory, sum up all the evidence with the greatest correctness. When counsel offered any intimation
of his inaccuracy, his answer was--'I am sure I am right; refer to your short-hand writer's
notes;' and he was invariably found to be right." A similar faculty is possessed by that very
distinguished person, Lord Lyndhurst.

It is remarkable that none of the lucky accidents which have raised so many inferior men into
prosperity ever occurred to Scott, who was yet destined to rise to such opulence and eminence.
His first steps in life might be regarded as all but ruin. He abandoned his college, where
he had secured at least existence; and he abandoned it for a profession proverbially hazardous,
and in which, for whole years, he made nothing. At this period, too, when scarcely able to
support himself, he ran away with a portionless wife; and thus began the world not merely helpless,
but with a new weight which has broken down many a strong mind. The opinion of every one who
took an interest in him was, that this marriage was fatal to all his prospects. It necessarily
compelled him to give up all collegiate objects; and we recollect to have seen in print a fragment
of a letter from his elder brother (afterwards Lord Stowell) to a friend, in these words--"Have
you seen what my foolish brother has done? He has made a runaway match; he is utterly ruined."
The opinion of Moises, his schoolmaster, was equally decided. "Jack Scott has run off with
Bessy Surtees, and the poor lad is undone."

Scott entered as a student of the Middle Temple in January 1773. In six years after, what was
his progress? We have this letter from Lord Stowell about 1779. "Business is very dull with
poor Jack, very dull indeed, and of consequence he is not very lively. I heartily wish that
business may brighten a little, or he will be heartily sick of his profession. I do all I can
to keep up his spirits, but he is very gloomy. But mum, not a word of this to the wife of your
bosom."

At length, however, day began to dawn, and his powerful understanding and solid knowledge found
the opportunity, which to such means is generally all that is wanting. A conversation with
an old friend lets us into a curious trait of Lord Mansfield. "Was the Court of Chancery your
object when you first came to the bar?" asked Farrar. "Certainly not," answered Lord Eldon.
"I first took my seat in the King's Bench; but I soon perceived, or thought I perceived, a
preference in Lord Mansfield (the Chief Justice) for young lawyers who had been bred at Westminster
School and Christ Church; and so, as I had belonged to neither, I thought I could not have
fair chance with my fellows, and therefore I crossed over to the other side of the hall. (The
Courts of King's Bench and Chancery were at that time on the opposite sides of Westminster
Hall.) Lord Mansfield, I believe, was not conscious of the bias; he was a good man." Mansfield's
goodness was sufficiently questioned by his contemporaries; yet if he exhibited this bias,
he could not have been a just man. The cause which first made Scott known was Acroyd v. Smithson.
The question was--whether, in a property willed in fifteen shares to fifteen people, one of
them dying in the testator's lifetime, the lapsed share did not belong to the heir at law.
He argued the case before the Master of the Rolls, Sir Thomas Sewell. "He has argued it very
well," said Sewell. But he gave it against Scott. An appeal came before Lord Thurlow. Scott
argued his point. Thurlow took three days to consider, and then gave his decision in favour
of the heir-at-law--a decision which has settled all similar questions ever since. He then
had an omen of his prosperity. As he left the hall, a solicitor of some note touched him on
the shoulder, and said, "Young man, your bread and butter is cut for life."

He then had another golden opportunity. Fatigued with waiting for fortune, he was on the point
of leaving London, and taking up his abode at Newcastle, of which he was offered the recordership.
A house was even taken for him, when, one morning at six o'clock, Mr, afterwards Lord, Curzon,
and four or five other gentlemen, came to his door, mentioning that the Clitheroe election
case was to come on that morning at ten before a committee of the Commons; that one of their
counsel was detained at Oxford by illness, and their second was unprepared and would not appear;
and that they were sent to him as a young and promising counsel. Scott told them that, on so
short a notice, all he could do would be to give a dry statement of facts. The cause thus put
into his hands went on for fifteen days. "It found me poor," said Lord Eldon, "but I was to
be rich before it was done. They left me fifty guineas at the beginning; then there were ten
guineas every day, and five guineas every evening, for a consultation--more money than I could
count. But, better still, the length of the cause gave me time to make myself thoroughly acquainted
with the law." After all this, the side on which Scott was, was beaten by a single vote. But
Mansfield, (afterwards Sir James,) on hearing his speech in the committee, came up to him in
Westminster Hall, and strongly advised him to remain in London. Scott answered that an increasing
family compelled him to leave London. Wilson, a barrister, advised as Mansfield had done, and
even generously offered to make up his income to L.400 a-year. He received the same answer.
"However," said the chancellor, with natural selfgratulation, "I did remain, and lived to make
Mansfield chief justice of the common pleas, and Wilson a judge." Moreover, his sagacity gave
him additional triumphs on the northern circuit, where he soon took the lead. He was counsel
in a cause which depended on his being able to make out who was the founder of an ancient chapel
in the neighbourhood. "I went to view it," said Lord Eldon. "There was nothing to be observed
which gave any indication of its date or history. However, I remarked that the ten commandments
were written on some old plaster, which, from its position, I conjectured might cover an arch.
Acting on this, I bribed the clerk with five shillings to allow me to chip away a part of the
plaster; and after two or three attempts, I found the keystone of an arch, on which were engraved
the arms of an ancestor of one of the parties. This evidence decided the cause. Here was an
instance of good-luck, undoubtedly, but also of great diligence and great sagacity. A negligent
counsel would never have thought of examining the chapel in person; a dull counsel would never
have thought of examining the arch; but it happens that the sagacious are generally lucky,
and that, therefore, the first quality is sagacity."

Another remarkable case occurred at Durham. On this occasion, Scott, though a junior counsel,
was appointed to lead by his seniors, the case being relative to collieries, and he being a
Newcastle man. When Buller the judge, who was a coarse man, and fond of saying abrupt things,
saw him, he said, "Sir, you have not a leg to stand upon." Scott answered, "My lord, in ninety-nine
cases out of a hundred, I should sit down on hearing the judge so express himself; but so persuaded
am I that I have the right on my side, that I must entreat your lordship to allow me to reply,
and I must also express my expectation of gaining a verdict." He replied, and the jury, after
consulting six or eight hours, gave the verdict in his favour. When he went to the ball that
evening, he was received with open arms by every one.

When he went to Carlisle, Buller sent for him, and told him that "he had been thinking over
that case on his way from Newcastle, and that he had come to the conclusion that he was entirely
wrong, and that I was right. He had, therefore, sent for me to tell me this, and to express
his regret for having attempted to stop me in court. This cause," said Lord Eldon, "raised
me aloft."

Yet this man, with all his ability, had already attended the Cumberland assizes for seven years
without receiving a brief. After the celebrity of this cause, when he next attended, he received
seventy guineas in fees at Carlisle.

So much has been said in parliament, and in the newspapers lately, of Gentlemen of the Turf,
and the very dubious nature of that appellation, that the following case comes curiously in
point. A question arose as to the winner of the stakes in a race--there having been a condition,
that the horses should be ridden by gentlemen; and it was disputed whether the winning horse
had been ridden by a gentleman or not. The judge finally addressed the jury in these words--"Gentlemen
of the jury, when I see you in that box I call you gentlemen, for I know you are such. Custom
has authorized me, and, from your office there, you are entitled to be called gentlemen; but
out of that box, I do not know what may be deemed the requisites that constitute a gentleman--therefore
I can give you no direction," (a laugh.) The jury returned a verdict that he was not a gentleman.
The next morning he challenged the two counsel, Law and Scott. They answered, they could not
possibly fight one who had been pronounced by the verdict of a jury to be no gentleman.

Politics now began to rise in the prospects of this intelligent and indefatigable mind. The
condition of the English lawyer forms as striking a contrast to that of the Continental jurisconsult,
as the English constitution to the despotisms of Europe. Abroad, the lawyer may be a man of
whatever extent of attainment, but his sphere is strictly professional; within that range he
lives, makes a scanty income, with a still more scanty fame, disputes for forty or fifty years,
and dies. France, of late years, is partially an exception, for France now extends the range
of her professions; but in all the rest, the existence of the lawyer closely resembles the
existence of the quadruped in the mill. In England all is of a different and a higher order.
The bar itself is but a step; distinction in the courts is only the first stage of an ascent
which may raise the individual to eminence in government, as well as dignity in the high places
of his profession--it is the preparative for wearing those honours which form a family, and
give a pledge to fortune. As the ancients said of the eagle, that, before he takes his flight
for the day, he prepares his wings by plunging them in the mountain stream, the great lawyer
has plunged in the depths of his profession only to ascend into a higher range of power and
prospect, and there to steer his strong flight to the possession of all that man can desire.

On the formation of the Coalition ministry under North and Fox in 1783, the great seal being
in commission, Scott was appointed king's counsel; but in this instance, so important to a
young barrister, he yet showed manliness. Saturday was the day on which he was to receive this
honour; but on ascertaining the Erskine and Pigot, both his juniors, and who were also to have
silk gowns, were to be sworn in on the Friday, he instantly retracted his acceptance, as, "he
could not submit to any waiver of his professional rank." The lords-commissioners called him
before them, and argued the matter pressingly. But he would not give way. At last, as the patents
for the two other counsel had already passed the great seal, they were sworn in on the Friday;
but a patent of precedence was given to Scott, by which he took rank before them. The day of
his patent was the 4th of June 1783: he was then thirty-two years old. Late in life, a friend
asked whether he thought it was important thus to insist on retaining his rank. Eldon, with
the experience of half a century, answered with great earnestness, "It was every thing. I owed
my future success to it." There is a moral in the words of Wiseman--"The man who begins by
humiliation, will soon find that the world will judge of him by his own deed."

Lord Eldon, in one of those conversations, strikingly remarked a similar conduct in the celebrated
Lord Collingwood, who had been his schoolfellow. "Medals were given," said his lordship, "on
the 1st of June, but not to him. When the medal was sent to him for Cape St Vincent, he returned
it, saying that he felt conscious he had done his duty as well on the 1st of June as at Cape
St Vincent; and that, if he did not merit the first medal, neither could he merit the second.
He was quite right," said Lord Eldon, "he would have both or neither. Both were sent to him."

Parliament now opened to his ambition. Lord Thurlow, at Lord Weymouth's request, offered him
Weobly, a borough in his patronage, (extinguished by the Reform Act of 1832.) Scott accepted
the offer, on the condition that he should be left independent in his opinions. Thurlow said
the "he had stipulated that already." Scott went down to the borough accordingly, made a "long
speech," which the electors said they expected from him, "as he was a lawyer: it being also
a treat which they had not enjoyed for thirty years." Lord Surrey, (afterwards Duke of Norfolk,)
a prodigious reformer--a profession which, however, did not prevent him from constantly dabbling
in the intrigues of electioneering--had harangued against him at Hereford, while Scott retorted
at Weobly by smartly saying--"That though then unknown to them, he hoped he should entitle
himself to more of their confidence, than if, being the son of the first Duke of England, he
had held himself out to them as a reformer, whilst riding, as the Earl of Surry rode, into
the first town of the county, drunk, upon a cider-cask, and talking in that state of reform!"
Lord Surrey had been his client, and on meeting him in France afterwards, good-humouredly said--"I
have had enough of meddling with you; I shall trouble you no more."

An odd incident, valuable to those who value foresightedness in this world's affairs, occurred
at the time Scott was lodged at the vicar's, Mr Bridges. He had a daughter, a young child,
and he said--"Who knows but you may come to be chancellor. As my girl can probably marry nobody
but a clergyman, promise me you will give her husband a living when you have the seals." His
answer was, "My promise is not worth half-a-crown; but you may have my promise." In after life,
the child, then in womanhood, walked one morning into the chancellor's drawing-room, and claimed
the fulfilment of his promise. It was duly performed, and she married.

There is perhaps no subject of human interest more entitled to an anxious and solemn curiosity,
than the sentiments of a man of powerful and fully furnished mind in the immediate prospect
of death. The coming change is so total and so tremendous, alarm and a sense of the unknown
are so natural, that to find unpresuming confidence, and virtuous constancy of heart, in that
awful time, cheers human nature. William Scott, always distinguished for great capacity and
remarkable acquirements, about this period being seized with an illness, which he thought mortal,
writes these memoranda on the verge of the grave:--

My great comfort is, to write on to my dearest Jack, and about my wife. Act for me. Wife, child.
She knows I recommend her to your care.

Object of my life, to make my sisters easy.

Save ------ from ruin if we can.

Protect my memory by your kindness. Life ebbs very fast with me. My dying thoughts are all
kindness and fraternal love about you.

While sensation remains, I think on my dearest brother, with whom I have spent my life. I die
with the same sentiments. As the hand of death approaches, it is a consolation to think of
him. Oh, cherish my wife! If you loved me, be a brother to her. You will have trouble about
my affairs; you will not grudge it. Oh, take care of her! I leave you that duty. It is the
last relief of my failing mind. Cherish my memory. Keep ----- from ruin, if you can, by any
application of any part of my child's fortune that is reasonable. Once more, farewell! God
bless you.

These are affecting testimonials, and show singular tenderness of heart and truth of attachment;
for they were written, to be transmitted only in case of death. Those who in after times saw
Lord Stowell on the bench, the solemn, and even the stern depository of justice, could scarcely
imagine, in that searching glance and compressed lip, the softness of heart which those fragments
indicate. Death may be a great subduer of the fierce spirit of man as it approaches; but their
language is not the phrase of puling softness, or pusillanimous alarm; it is at once calm and
fond, collected and fervid. The writer's natural and honourable feelings are all alive at the
moment when the last pang might seem to be at hand; and though nothing is said of his Christian
hopes, (probably because the care of his family demanded more urgent consideration than his
personal conceptions,) language like theirs could scarcely have come but from a Christian.
His disorder was a violent bilious fever, which exhausted him so much that his recovery was
slow. But to those who are in the habit of consigning their friends to "inevitable death" on
every infliction of disease, it may excite some useful doubt of their own infallibility, to
know that this dying man, then thirty-eight, survived for half a century, dying in his ninety-first
year.

But the whole biography is a warning--especially against despondency. Who could suppose that,
after Lord Eldon's success up to this point; his distinction on the principal circuit; the
compliments of the judges; the respect of his seniors in the profession, some of them very
remarkable men; his silk gown in the days of Erskine; his seat in Parliament; and, more than
all, the consciousness which men of large faculties naturally have of their suitableness, and
almost their certainty, to command fortune at some tine or other; we should find the future
peer and chancellor desponding? Yet what but deep complaints of his cloudy prospects could
have produced this reply from his clever friend Lee, (who, within three weeks' became Attorney-General?)

    DEAR SCOTT--Your letter, which I received this minute,
    was a very cheering one to me. But keep up your
    spirits, and let it not be said that a good
    understanding, and an irreproachable life, and an
    uncommon success, and every virtuous expectation, are
    insufficient to support tranquility and composure of
    mind. If you are cast down who is to hold up? In a few
    days I hope to meet you in good health and good heart;
    and, in the mean time, remain your faithful and
    affectionate.

      (Nov. 1783)                                 "J. LEE."

On the opening of the session, great popular feeling was excited against the coalition. The
furious invectives which Fox had been for some years heaping on Lord North's luckless head,
were now flung upon his own. Traitor, liar, swindler, were "house-hold words;" and Fox, with
all his ability, and that happiest of all ability for the crisis, great constitutional good-humour,
found himself suddenly overwhelmed. In the House he was still powerful; but, outside its doors,
he was utterly helpless. Like the witches recorded in some of the German romances, though within
the walls chosen for their orgies they could summon spirits, and revel in their incantations
uncontrolled, yet, on passing the threshold, they turned into hags again. But as if to make
the coalition still more odious in the popular eye, there was presented the most resistless
contrast to both its chiefs in the young and extraordinary leader of the Opposition, Pitt;
with the ardour of youth and the wisdom of years, at once master of the most vigorous logic,
and the loftiest appeal to the public feelings; honoured as the son of Chatham; and yet, even
at that immature period of his life and his career, still more honoured for the promise of
talents and services which were to throw even his own eminent predecessor into the shade.

But North, apart from the cabinet, was always delightful. He had more of easy pleasantry in
his manner than any favourite of English recollection. Lord Eldon, in his anecdotal book thus
tells--"Lord North had gone, at the Prince of Wales's desire, to reconcile the King to him.
He succeeded, and called on the Prince to inform him of his success. 'Now,' said he, 'let me
beseech your Royal Highness in future to conduct yourself differently. Do so, on all accounts;
do so, for your own sake; do so, for your excellent father's sake; do so, for the sake of that
good-natured man, Lord North; and don't oblige him again to tell the King, your good father,
so many lies, as he has been obliged to tell him this morning'"

Lord Eldon's personal narrative is a sort of comment on the whole public history of his time.
Why did not such a man write his own "Life and Times?" Intelligent as are the Volumes before
us, the personal conceptions arising on the personal knowledge, would have been invaluable
as experience. His view of transactions in their embryo, in their full growth, and in their
impression on the general policy and progress of the government, would have formed an important
lesson for statesmanship to come. But what an indulgence must it have furnished to the national
curiosity, which, seeing the origin of all things in individual character, justly regards the
eminent characters of that day as the founders of every remarkable change which has shaped
the constitution in our own! Public life has never before or since abounded in such variety,
strength, and brilliancy of character. A combination of talents of the very highest order was
exhibited in both the Lords and Commons; and it would actually seem as if this combination
were preparatory to the tremendous demands which, before the close of the century, were to
be made upon the wisdom, the courage, and the constancy of the British legislature. And why
should there not be such preparation? We see preparation a principle in the whole course of
nature. We see, in the formation of individual character, a preparative, and sometimes a most
distinct and powerful one, for the duty which the coming crisis is yet to demand; and why shall
not legislatures, as well individuals, be placed in that condition of effectiveness, and trained
to that exertion of power, which is subsequently to be required for the providential deliverance
of nations? It is remarkable that the discussions in which parliament at this period was engaged,
though local, and of course altogether inferior to those comprehensive struggles which were
to follow, were yet of a nature singularly calculated to call forth practical ability. There
never was a period since the Revolution of 1688, in which party was so vigorously brought into
conflict, in which personal interests gave so strong a stimulus to the association of principles,
in which office so rapidly shifted hands, and power was so much the creature of reputation.
Thus the whole character of this period was an appeal to popularity; an appeal of all others
the most calculated to bring out every latent faculty of the orator, the constitutionalist,
and the statesman. A still greater period, unknown and unexpected by every man, was to have
the advantage of this preparation. The French Revolution, which burst with such irresistible
violence over the Continent, was to find the ramparts of public principle and legislative wisdom
repaired and strengthened in England, and those ramparts manned with defenders who had learned
the use of their weapons in the mock conflicts of peace, and, when the day of danger came,
showed themselves invincible.

The India bill broke down the Coalition ministry; it was the most insolent experiment ever
made on the constitution--a compound of republican daring and despotic power. It would have
made the king a cipher, and parliament a slave. The exclusive patronage of India would have
enabled the minister to corrupt the legislature. The corruption of the legislature would have
made the minister irresponsible: the constitution would thus have been inevitably suspended,
and the national liberties incapable of being restored except by a national convulsion. But
those evils were happily avoided by the manliness of the king and the loyalty of the lords.
The India bill was thrown out in the House of Lords on the 17th of December. The king lost
no time in giving effect to this discomfiture. At the extraordinary hour of twelve o'clock
on the following night, an order was sent to the two secretaries of state, North and Fox, that
they should deliver up the seals by his majesty's command; adding the contemptuous injunction,
that they should send them by the under-secretaries, the king not suffering a personal interview.

Pitt was placed at the head of the new administration as first lord of the treasury and chancellor
of the exchequer. Thurlow was again made lord chancellor, and Kenyon and Arden attorney and
solicitor-generals. In the debates on the India bill, one of Sheridan's pleasantries is recorded.
As Fox's majorities declined, it was hinted by his party that John Robinson, the secretary
of the treasury, was purchasing the votes. On Sheridan's making the charge without naming the
supposed culprit, a great outcry arose in the House of "Name him, name him!" "Sir," said Sheridan,
addressing the Speaker, "I shall not name the person; it is an invidious and unpleasant thing
to do; but don't suppose that I could find any difficulty in naming him: I could do it as soon
as you could say Jack Robinson."

Pitt having waited with consummate judgment, though against the advice of all his supporters,
until Fox had worn down his majorities in the House, and totally disgusted the nation, dissolved
the parliament. The measure was triumphant; an unequaled Tory majority was returned in the
next session, and the Whigs were extinguished as a party for nearly twenty years. Lord Eldon
records a curious acknowledgment of Fox with respect to the power of the pencil. "Sayers's
caricatures," said he, "did me more mischief than the debates in Parliament or the attacks
of the press." Lord Eldon observes that the prints of Carlo Khan; Fox running away with the
India House; Fox and Burke quitting Paradise when turned out of office, and similar publications,
had certainly a vast effect on the public mind. Let HB triumph on this, and make his claim
on the ministry. Scott was again returned for Weobly, and gives a curious instance of the slight
incidents by which elections are sometimes determined. In crossing the country from Lancaster
to the hustings at his borough, he stopped at the last stage to have his hair dressed. The
hairdresser asked him whether Sir Gilbert Elliott was not one of the seven kings--a name of
ridicule given to Fox's seven proposed commissioners for India. "Because," said the man, "there
is a Sir Gilbert Elliott a candidate for the borough; and we are all agreed that, if he is
one of the seven kings, we will have nothing to say to him; and as we wish to be sure about
it, and as you must know, sir, excuse my freedom in asking whether he really is one of the
seven kings." Scott answered that he certainly was. The hairdresser immediately made proclamation
of the fact, and Sir Gilbert was totally defeated.

Very curious instances of character occur in the experience of counsel. Lord Eldon gives one
of them as occurring to himself. "Once," said he, "I had a very handsome offer made to me.
I was pleading for the rights of the inhabitants of the Isle of Man. Now I had been reading
in Coke, and I found there that the people in the Isle of Man were no beggars," (the words
are, 'The inhabitants of this Isle are religious, industrious, and true people, without begging
or stealing.') "I therefore do not beg their rights, I demand them. This so pleased an old
smuggler who was present, that when the trial was over, he called me aside and said, 'Young
gentleman, I tell you what, you shall have my daughter if you will marry her, and one hundred
thousand pounds for her fortune.' That was a very handsome offer, but I told him that I happened
to have a wife who had nothing for her fortune, therefore I must stick to her." In December
of this year 1784, Johnson died. "He was a good man," said Lord Eldon; "he sent me a message
on his death-bed, to request that I would make a point of attending public worship every Sunday,
and that the place should be the Church of England."

An excellent anecdote, illustrative of the advantages of knowing some thing of every thing,
is given on a trial at Carlisle. Bearcroft, a celebrated advocate, was brought down on a special
retainer of three hundred guineas, in a salmon fishery cause. Scott led on the other side;
and at a consultation held the evening before, it was determined to perplex Bearcroft, by examining
all the witnesses in the dialect of Cumberland, and, as it appears, in the patois of the fishermen.
Accordingly, when Scott began to cross-examine his first witness, who said a good deal out
the salmon good and bad, he asked whether they were obliged to make ould soldiers of any of
them. Bearcroft asked for an explanation of the words, which Scott would not give him. He then
asked the judge, who answered that he did not know. After a squabble, the phrase was explained;
but nearly every other question produced a similar scene. The jury were astonished that neither
judge nor Bearcroft understood what they all understood so well, and they inferred from Bearcroft's
ignorance that he had a rotten cause. The consequence was, that Bearcroft lost the cause; and
he swore that no fee should ever tempt him to come among such a set of barbarians as the Cumberland
men again.

An ould soldier is made by hanging up in a chimney a salmon caught out of season, when the
fish is white instead of red, and it acquires by hanging the colour of an old red coat.

Cross-examination may sometimes produce peril to the performer. At the assizes, Scott once
examined a barber severely. The barber got into a great passion, and Scott desired him to moderate
his anger, and that he should employ him to shave him as he passed through Kendal to the Lancaster
assizes. 'The barber said, with great indignation, "I would not advise you, lawyer, to think
of that, or risk it."

Scott's reputation was now rising year by year, in both Parliament and his profession; and
Lord Mansfield's resignation, in 1788, of the chief-justiceship of the King's Bench making
a general move in the higher orders of the bar, Scott was appointed solicitor-general, Kenyon
being appointed to the chief-justiceship, and the attorney-general, Arden, succeeding to the
Rolls. On this occasion he was knighted. A melancholy event soon gave him the most public opportunity
for the display of his official faculties. In the autumn of 1788, the king was attacked with
disorder of the mind, and the great question of the regency necessarily came before Parliament.
The Whigs, who regarded the Prince of Wales as their dependent, if not as their dupe, insisted
on his succession to the unlimited prerogatives of the sovereign; the Tories insisted, on the
other hand, that Parliament alone had a right to confer the regency and to assign its powers,
though they admitted that the choice, in the present instance, ought to fall upon the Prince
of Wales. A question of this importance naturally brought out all the ability on both sides.
Pitt and the solicitor-general took the lead on the side of limitation, and the prince ultimately
accepted the regency on their terms. It became unnecessary, however; for, while the bill was
in the House of Lords, a communication was made by the chancellor, that the king's health was
in a favourable state.

His majesty was able to return to business in March.

Lord Thurlow had been universally charged with carrying on an intrigue with the Opposition,
for the purpose of continuing in office under the regency. Lord Eldon's belief is introduced
against that charge; but there can be no doubt whatever that the charge was universally rumoured
at the time; that anecdotes confirmatory of the fact were told in every direction; that no
known attempt was ever made to answer them; and that, from the period of the regency, an alienation
arose, which finally determined his dismissal by the minister. The well-known boast of the
chancellor's loyalty to the incapacitated king, which produced such animadversion in the House,
and such burlesque out of it--Burke's ridicule of his official sensibilities, "the iron tears
down Pluto's cheeks," were all founded on the public belief of this intrigue. And it is certainly
no answer, at the end of half a century of uncontradicted opinion, to say that no formal accusation
on the subject was made on the king's recovery, when the whole subject of the regency had become
alike distasteful to both sides of the House--to Ministers, from delicacy to the king; and
to Opposition, from a sense of failure.

Soon after Scott became solicitor-general, the king, at Weymouth, said, "Well, I hope your
promotion has been beneficial to you?" He asked his majesty if he meant his professional income.
"Yes," said the king, "in that and in other respects." Scott told him that he must lose by
it about £2000 a-year; and on the king expressing surprise, he said "That the attention of
the law-officers was called to matters of international law, public law, and revenue law--matters
which, as they were not familiar to them, took up a good deal of their time, and that the fee
usually given to the solicitor-general with the government cases was only three guineas, while
those from private cases were from ten to twenty-five." "Oh!" said the king, "then for the
first time I comprehend what I never could understand, why it has always been so difficult
to get any opinion from my law-officers."

At the close of the session of 1792, Lord Thurlow gave up the great seal. "What it was," said
Lord Eldon afterwards, "that occasioned the rupture between Lord Thurlow and his colleagues,
I never could find out." We here see an instance of the ignorance in which a high official
was content to remain, on a subject which might naturally and fairly excite his curiosity.
It is obvious that he wished to keep himself out of the mêlée and took the best probable way
of doing so, by asking no questions. But a dilemma arose out of this resignation to Scott himself.
Pitt sent for him, and said, "I have a circumstance to mention to you, which, on account of
your personal and political connexion with Lord Thurlow, I wish that you should first hear
from myself. Lord Thurlow and I have quarreled, and I have signified to him his Majesty's commands
that he should resign the great seal." Scott replied, that he was not at all surprised at the
event which had taken place; but added, that he owed too great obligations to Lord Thurlow
to reconcile it to himself to act in political hostility to him, and he had also been too long
in political connexion with the minister to join any party against him; so that nothing was
left but to resign his office, and make his bow to the House of Commons. Pitt argued against
this, and finally induced him to consult Lord Thurlow. Thurlow at once told him, that to resign
would be a foolish thing; adding in the spirit of a prediction, which was afterwards strikingly
realized, "it is very possible that Mr Pitt, from party and political motives, at this moment
may overlook your pretensions; but, sooner or later, you, must hold the great seal. I know
no man but yourself qualified for its duties."

If the ex-chancellor was complimentary to Scott, it notoriously was not his habitual style;
the fierceness of his tone was well known. His language of Loughborough, who succeeded him,
was savagely contemptuous. On one occasion, when the latter was speaking with considerable
effect on a subject on which Lord Thurlow had an adverse opinion, though he did not regard
himself as sufficiently master of it for direct refutation, he was heard to mutter, "If I was
not as lazy as a toad at the bottom of a well, I could kick that fellow Loughborough heels
over head, any day in the week."

Thurlow told the Prince that though Loughborough "had the gift of the gab in a marvellous degree,
he was no lawyer;" and added, "in the house of Lords I get Kenyon or somebody to start some
law doctrine, in such a manner that the, fellow must get up to answer it, and then I leave
the woolsack, and give him such a thump in his bread-basket that he cannot recover himself."

The solicitor-general was now growing rich, and he purchased for L.22,000 the manor of Eldon,
a property of about 1300 acres in the county of Durham. He was an "improving landlord," and
for several years he expended the income of the estate on planting--which at once much increased
its value, and added to the beauty of that part of the county of Durham.

In 1793, he ascended another step in his profession, by his appointment to the great office
of attorney-general, in succession to Sir Archibald Macdonald, who was made chief baron of
the exchequer. The new attorney-general was soon summoned to the highest exercise of his abilities,
his learning, and his courage; he commenced office in the midst of national convulsion.

The Revolution of France, which had been growing violence and havoc for the last four years,
had now arrived at its height. The change, beginning with popular reform in 1789, had, in 1793,
been consummated in regicide. The republic proclaimed in the year before, within three months
had darkened into a democracy. The general alarm of the continental kings; combined them in
an attempt to overthrow a government which threatened them all; the attempt was found to result
only in consolidating its power; and, in the first year of war, France presented to the disaffected
of all nations, the tempting spectacle of a land in which the foremost prizes of power had
fallen into the hands of men of the humblest condition; and in which those men humbled to the
dust the proudest diadems of Europe. Obscure pamphleteers, country advocates, monks, and editors
of struggling journals, were suddenly seen in the first offices of state, wielding the whole
power of the mightiest kingdom of the Continent, absorbing its revenues, directing its armies,
and moving in the rank of princes among the proud hereditary sovereignties of the world. To
the crowd of unprincipled men, engendered by the habits of European life, and their consciousness
of abilities fully equal to those which had won such opulent enjoyments and lofty distinctions
in France, the success of the Revolution was an universal summons to conspiracy. On the Continent
that conspiracy was, according to the habits of the people, crafty and concealed. In England,
equally according to the habits of the people, it was bold and public, daring and defying.
Great meetings of the population were held in the open air; committees of grievance were appointed;
correspondences were spread through the country; the whole machinery of overthrow was openly
erected, and worked by visible hands. Even where secresy was deemed useful by the more cautious
or the more fearful, it was of a different character from the assassin-like secresy of the
foreign insurgent; it was more the solemn and regulated observance of a secret tribunal. The
papers which have transpired of those secret committees have all the forms of diplomacy, combined
with a determination of language, and an intensity of purpose, which would do honour to a nobler
cause. But the contest was now at hand, and on three men in England depended the championship
of the monarchy. These three were the King, the Minister, and the Attorney-General. There were
never three individuals more distinctly, and we shall scarcely hesitate to say, more providentially,
prepared to meet the crisis. George III., a sovereign of the most constitutional principles,
and of the most unshaken intrepidity; William Pitt, the most sagacious and the most resolute
statesman that England had ever seen, formed by his manly eloquence to rule the legislature,
and, by his character for integrity, to obtain the full confidence of the empire; and Sir John
Scott, at once wise, calm, and bold, profoundly learned in his profession, personally brave,
and alike incapable of yielding to the menaces of party or the corruptions of power. It is
not to be forgotten, as a portion of that genuine public respect which in England is always
withheld from even the most shining personal gifts, when stained by private profligacy, that
those three were wholly and alike above the breath of slander. The king, eminent for domestic
virtue; Pitt, unstained by even an imputation; and Scott, fondly attached to his wife and family.

In January 1793, the cruel murder of the innocent and unfortunate Louis XVI. had been perpetrated
by the National Convention--an act which Napoleon long afterwards pronounced "a grand political
error; sufficient to stamp the government not merely with guilt, but with infatuation." The
French minister at the Court of St James's was ordered to leave the country, and war was proclaimed.
The revolutionary committees in England now assumed increased activity. Communications were
established between them and the Jacobin government; and while France prepared for War, English
republicanism prepared for revolution. The time of the struggle was fully come. The English
minister now buckled on his armour. A succession of vigorous measures employed the legislature
during the whole period; they were fiercely combated, but they were all ultimately carried.
Opposition never exhibited more brilliant parliamentary powers. Fox was matchless in declamation,
alternately solemn and touching; Sheridan, Grey, and a long list of practised and indefatigable
talent, were in perpetual debate; but Pitt, "with huge two-handed sway", finally crushed them
all. The classic illustration of Hercules destroying the Hydra, was frequently used to express
the solitary prowess of this extraordinary man in resisting the multiplied, wily, and envenomed
attacks of his opponents; and he realized the fable to the full--he not merely crushed the
heads, but he seared them. He extinguished that principle of evil increase, by which all the
efforts of foreign governments had been baffled in their contests with Jacobinism; and in the
midst of an empire at all times inclined to look with jealousy on power, and at that moment
nervous for the suspended privileges of its constitution, Pitt utterly extinguished the Whigs.
Fox was defeated so hopelessly, that he gave up Parliament altogether, and his party followed
his example. Pitt had not merely cut down the statelier trunks of Opposition, but he had swept
away the brushwood, and smote the ground with sterility. His bold enterprise had not merely
taken the citadel Of faction by storm, and driven its defenders, faint-hearted and fugitive,
over the face of the land, but he had sown the foundations with salt. The total solitude of
the Opposition benches, during the greater part of the minister's political life, was the most
unequivocal and striking evidence ever given to ministerial supremacy.

The services of the attorney-general were in another less wide, but not less important province.
On the Continent, the conspirators against the state would have been thrown into dungeon for
life, or shot. In France, the idol of the revolutionist of all countries, they would heave
been carried before a mob tribunal, their names simply asked, their sentences pronounced, and
their bodies headless within the first half hour. In England, they had the benefit of the law
in all its sincerity, the assistance of the most distinguished counsel, the judgment of the
most impartial tribunal, and the incalculable advantage of a trial by men of their own condition,
feelings, and passions. On the 28th of October, at the Old Bailey, commenced the trial of Hardy,
one of the secretaries of the chief treasonable society. The bill brought in by the grand jury
had included twelve. The charges were those of "compassing the death of the king, and the subversion
of the government." Hardy was a shoemaker, a man of low attainments, but active, and strongly
republican. His activity had made him secretary to the London Corresponding Society, and by
its direction a member of a similar body, named the Society for Constitutional Information.
The direct object of all those societies was the same--to summon a national convention, which
must, of course, supersede Parliament. As those societies grew more mature, instead of becoming
more rational they exhibited more savage ferocity. Placards were distributed in the form of
a playbill, announcing, "For the Benefit of John Bull, La Guillotine," or, "George's Head in
a Basket." The airs of their meetings were Ca Ira and the Marseillaise. Attempts were made
to corrupt the army. It was openly declared in their harangues, that it was "impossible to
do any thing without some bloodshed, and that Pitt's and the King's heads would be upon Temple
Bar." The sentiment was general, but at the conclusion of the especial harangue in which this
atrocious language was first used, the whole meeting rose up, and shook hands with the madman
by whom it was uttered.

The attorney-general's speech on this occasion was masterly; English jurisprudence had never
before witnessed so striking a combination of refined knowledge with clear arrangement and
unanswerable facts. It had one disadvantage, it was overwhelmingly long; it lasted nine hours,
a period, if not beyond the strength of the advocate, palpably beyond any power of attention
in the jury. But even this disadvantage arose from an honourable public feeling. The judges
who examined the papers declared them to be high treason. The warrants of commitment had declared
them to be high treason. Lord Eldon, in his "anecdotes" of this period, says, that, "after
this, he did not think himself at liberty to let down the character of the offence." An additional
and still stronger reason is given, that "unless the whole evidence was laid before the jury,
it would have been impossible that the country should have ever been made fully acquainted
with the danger to which it was exposed. And it appeared to him more essential to the public
safety that the whole of those transactions should be published, than that any of these individuals
should be convicted." This was a sentiment which does honour to the memory of a great man.
He had been urged by his fellow counsel, and probably by others, to bring the accused to trial
only for a misdemeanour, in the expectation of thus being sure of a verdict. But he determined
to bring the case before the jury in its true shape, be the result what it might. It has been
rumoured that this, too, was the opinion of Pitt, in contradiction to that of some of the cabinet.
With that pre-eminent man the blood of these criminals could never have been the object. No
servant of the British crown was ever less chargeable with cruelty. But the true object was,
to expose the treason; to prove to the nation the actual hazards of revolutionary intrigue,
and to extinguish conspiracy, however the conspirators might escape. The consequence amply
justified this bold and candid determination. The conspiracy was crushed; all conspiracy was
crushed. Nothing of the same degree of guilt, nor even of the same shape of guilt, ever recurred.
The lesson was not the less complete, for its sparing the country the sight of the abhorred
scaffold. The conspirators, though successively acquitted, were so warned by their peril that
they never sinned again. All, if not converted, sank into total obscurity. The nation, freed
from this nightmare, started up in fresh vigour, and began, with a unanimity in its heart,
and irresistible strength in its hands, that illustrious battle for Europe, which accomplished
the liberation of mankind.

The attorney-general had now given such undeniable proofs of fitness for the highest rank of
his profession, that office seemed to fall to him by right of universal acknowledgment; and
on a vacancy in the Common Pleas, he was promoted to the chief-justiceship in 1799, and at
the same time raised to the peerage by the title of Baron Eldon. It is an instance of the dutiful
and affectionate nature, which long connexion with the world and the pride of success--the
two strongest temptations to heartlessness--could not extinguish, that he made a point of writing
the first letter which he signed with his title to his aged mother. In this interesting document,
after mentioning his double promotion, and attributing it, "under the blessing of Providence,"
to the lessons of virtue which he had received from his parents; he adds--"I hope God's grace
will enable me to do my duty in the station to which I am called. I write in some agitation
of spirits; but am anxious to express my love and duty to my mother, and affection to my sisters,
when I first subscribe myself, your loving and affectionate son, ELDON."

Lord Kenyon, then chief-justice of the King's Bench, pronounced a panegyric on this promotion,
congratulating the profession, and especially those who practised in the Common Pleas, on the
appointment of one who would probably be found "the most consummate judge that ever sat in
judgment."

The step from the office of attorney-general to the presidency of one of the courts, has been
not unusual; but, as modern experience has shown, it is by no means a necessary procedure.
In Lord Eldon's instance, it received the universal approval of the bar. But he held the chief-justiceship
only for a year and a half, when he was raised to the summit of the bar, and sat down lord
chancellor.

We hasten over the melancholy details of the following period. The labours of the attorney-general
were light and cheerful compared with the toils and responsibilities of the chancellor; the
disturbed state of the king's mind; the growing difficulties of that millstone round the neck
of English legislation, the Popish claims; the retirement of Pitt, and the general alarm of
the nation at its external hazards, formed a trial of unexampled severity to all public men.
The death of the Great Minister in 1806, (23d of January,) at length broke up the Tory administration;
the Whigs assumed power, and Lord Eldon, of course, resigned the Seals.

But the mere official routine of a chancellor's life is tremendous. Lord Eldon's account of
one of his days, shows at what a price the honour of the Seals must be purchased. In one of
his letters he says--"Mine has been no easy life. I will tell you what once happened to me.
I was ill with the gout, it was in my feet, and so I was carried into my carriage, and from
it was carried into court. There I remained all the day, and delivered an arduous judgment.
In the evening, I went straight from my court to the House of Lords. There I sat until two
in the morning, when some of the lords came and whispered to me, that I was expected to speak.
I told them that I really could not, that I was ill, and could not stand. It was an important
question, (the peace of Amiens,) I forgot my gout, and spoke for two hours. Well, the House
broke up, I was carried home, and at six in the morning I prepared to go to bed. My poor left
leg had just got in; when I recollected that I had important papers to examine; so I put on
my clothes, and went to my study. I examined the papers; they related to the Recorders' Report,
which had to be heard that day. I was again carried into court, where I had to deliver another
arduous judgment. Again went to the House of Lords, and it was not till the middle of the second
night that I got into bed!" Such desperate performances do not occur every day in the life
even of lord chancellors; but the judicial labours, combined with the political, are too heavy
a task for the body or the mind of any man.

The Whigs are never destined to a long supremacy. They have never come into power but in some
perverted state of the public feelings. There must be some terror, or some infatuation, in
the public mind, before it calls in the quack; but the moment that sees quiet succeed to disturbance,
and the nation has recovered its composure, always sees the Whigs driven out of office. The
death of Fox, in 1806, unquestionably deprived the party of a great popular name, but the whole
strength of Whiggism survived. It was in full possession of power, and the late dissolution
had filled Parliament with its adherents; still its old fate prevailed. Like ships floating
over the land only by the help of an inundation, when the waters return to their channel the
ships remain, only to be broken in pieces, the Whig government was broken up never to be restored,
until a new convulsion in France, producing a corresponding convulsion in England, brought
them into office, after a lapse of another quarter of a century.

In March 1807, a bill having been prepared as a preliminary to the Popish concession, the king
pronounced it contrary to his coronation oath, and insisted on its withdrawal; the Whigs consented;
but the king further insisting on a pledge that they would attempt no similar measure, they
demurred, and his majesty instantly dismissed them, amidst the general rejoicing of the empire.
The Duke of Portland was placed at the head of a new ministry, and Lord Eldon received the Seals.

We have now seen his lordship secure in that station which he was to retain until the close
of his useful and vigorous life; we shall, therefore, abandon politics, and turn to his more
numerous recollections of incident and character.

Lord Eldon as a warrior. "During the war," says his lordship, "I became one of the Lincoln's
Inn volunteers--Lord Ellenborough, at the same time, being one of the corps. It happened, unfortunately
for the military character of both of us, that we were turned out of the awkward squad for
awkwardness! I think Ellenborough was more awkward than I was; but others thought that it was
difficult to determine which was the worse." His brother William, however, was a smart officer,
and commanded a corps.

Of Chief-Justice Eyre, whom he succeeded in the Common Pleas, he told--"Eyre once demanded
of Wilkes, why he abused him so unmercifully in his speeches to the Livery while he was Recorder,
though in private he expressed a regard for him?"--"So I have," said Wilkes, "and it is for
that reason I abuse you in public. I wish to have you promoted to a judgeship."

"When Sir Robert Henley was keeper of the Great Seal, and presided in the House, he was often
indignant at seeing his decrees reversed, while, not being a peer, he was not entitled to support
his decisions. In the famous case of Drury and Drury, his decision having been reversed, though
the bar then and still pronounced it valid, the lord keeper was very angry; and, in driving
home, his coachman checked the horses. He asked--'Why he did not drive on?' The man saying--'My
lord, I can't. If I do, I shall kill an old woman.'--'Drive on,' cried Henley; 'if you do kill
her, she has nothing to do but to appeal to the house of Lords.' He was afterwards made lord
chancellor, and this habit of reversals came to an end."

On his quitting the chancellorship, and accepting the inferior office of lord president, the
Archbishop of Canterbury congratulating him on his removal from an office of unceasing fatigue
to one of so much quiet, the ex-chancellor not being at all satisfied with the difference of
the emoluments, answered very sulkily, "I suppose, now, you would think I was extremely civil
and kind if I were to congratulate your grace on a transition from Canterbury to Llandaff."

Taylor, an extravagant personage who called himself a chevalier, and who professed extraordinary
skill in the diseases of the eye, dining one day with the bar on the Oxford circuit, related
many wonders which he had done. Bearcroft, a little out of humour at his self-conceit, said--"Pray,
Chevalier, as you have told us a great many things which you have done, try to tell us something
which you cannot do." "Nothing so easy," said Taylor; "I cannot pay my share of the dinner-bill;
and that, sir, I must beg of you to do."

Lord Thurlow's oddity and abruptness, both sometimes amounting to brutality, were the constant
source of amusement--at least to all but the sufferers. On a trial in which an attorney gave
evidence respecting the will of a man whose death was in question, the attorney, after some
puzzling, said--"My lord, hear me, the man is dead; I attended his funeral; he was my client."
"Why, sir," said Thurlow, "did you not mention that at first? a great deal of time and trouble
might have been saved. That he was your client is some evidence that he was dead; nothing was
so likely to kill him."

At Buxton, Thurlow lodged with a surgeon, opposite to a butcher's shop. He asked his landlord
whether he or his neighbour killed the most.

Thurlow, on being asked, how he got through all his business as a chancellor, answered--"Just
as a pickpocket gets through a horse-pond. He must get through." Dunning, when a similar question
was put to him, answered in much the same spirit, though in a more professional style. "I divide
my business into three parts: one part I do; another does itself; and the third I leave undone."

In 1807, Lord Eldon purchased the estate of Encombe in the Isle of Purbeck, for which he paid
between £52,000 and £53,000, comprising a mansion with 2000 acres, a fertile valley, with a
fine sea view.

In 1809, the charges brought by Colonel Wardle against the Duke of York excited great public
interest. The very sound of malversation in high employments excites all the feelings of a
nation with whom character is the first requisite; and the rumour that the Duke had been a
party to the sale of commissions in the army by Mrs Clarke, with whom he had formed an unfortunate
connexion, produced a public uproar. After discussions and examination of witnesses, which
lasted six weeks, and brought infinite obloquy on the Duke and his defenders, the House of
Commons resolved, by 278 to 196, that the charge of corruption, or even of connivance, against
the Duke, was wholly without foundation. Upon this clearance of his character, the Duke resigned
the command of the army; a subsequent motion for a censure on his conduct, was negatived without
a division. The Duke of York was, beyond all question, clear of any knowledge of the practices
of the very ingenious person with whom he associated, but few men have ever paid more dearly
for their offence. The storm of public abuse which poured on him for months, must have been
torture; and his resignation of office must have stung every feeling; and even his pecuniary
sacrifice during the three years of his retirement, must have been severely felt by a prince
with a narrow income for his rank. That loss could not have been less than £50,000. In 1811
he resumed the command. We must hasten to the conclusion. Lord Eldon, after witnessing the
two great changes of the constitution, the Popish bill of 1829--which he calls the "fatal bill,"
and which he had resisted with all his vigour and learning for a long succession of years--and
the Reform bill of 1832, at length found that period coming to him which comes to all. Retiring
from public life, he devoted himself to his study, the society of a few old friends, and those
considerations of a higher kind which he had cultivated from early life, and which returned
to him, as they return to all who reverence them, with additional force when their presence
was more consolatory and essential. But old age naturally strips us of those who gave an especial
value to life; and after seeing his brother Lord Stowell, and Lady Eldon--his Elizabeth, for
whom he seems to have always retained the tenderness of their early years--taken from him,
he quietly sank into the grave, dying in 1838, January 13th, aged 87. He deserved to rest in
peace--for he had lived in patriotism, integrity, and honour.

The three volumes exhibit a research which does much credit to the intelligence and industry
of Mr Twiss, their author. They abound in capital anecdotes, but a few of which we have been
able to give--possess passages of very effective writing--and form a work which ought to be
in the library of every lawyer, statesman, and English gentleman.