Our next day was a pleasant, lazy day, during which we inspected Karyatayn at our leisure.
We rested, read, and wrote, and made a few extra preparations for the march.  I went to call
on the wife of Omar Beg, who was the daughter of the well-known German savant Herr Mordtmann.
She was living with her husband quite contentedly in this desolate place, in a mud hut, and
her only companions were a hyena and a lynx, which slept on her bed.  The hyena greeted me
at the gate; and though I was not prepared for it, I innocently did the right thing.  It came
and sniffed at my hands, and then jumped up and put its paws on my shoulder and smelt my face.
"Oh," I thought, "if it takes a bit out of my cheek, what shall I do?"  But I stood as still
as a statue, and tried not to breathe, looking steadily in its eyes all the while.  At last
it made up its mind to be friendly, jumped down, and ran before me into the house.  Here I
found the lynx on the divan, which sprang at me, mewed, and lashed its tail till Madame Omar
came.  She was a charming German lady; but her husband kept her secluded in the harim like
a Moslem woman. She told me I had done quite the right thing with the hyena.  If people began
to scream, it took a pleasure in frightening them.  I found this out a little later, for it
got into Richard's room, and I found him, the Russian Consul, and the Vicomte de Perrochel
all sitting on the divan with their legs well tucked under them, clutching their sticks, and
looking absurdly uncomfortable at the affreuse bete, as the Vicomte called it.

I had had a tiring day, and was glad to go to the harim that night and turn into my little
room.  But, alas! no sooner had I got in there than about fifty women came to pay me a visit.
By way of being gracious, I had given a pair of earrings to the head wife of the Shaykh, and
that caused the most awful jealousy and quarrelling among them.  I was dying to go to bed,
but they went on nagging at one another, until at last a man, a husband or a brother, came
of his own accord to tell them to take leave, and upon their refusing he drove them all out
of the room like a flock of sheep.  Fortunately I had a bolt to my door, so that I was able
to shut them out.  My sleep, however, was very much disturbed, for they kept on trying the
doors and the shutters nearly all night.  They have an intense curiosity concerning European
women, and during my toilet next morning I could see fifty pairs of eyes at fifty chinks in
the windows and doors.  It was really very embarrassing, because I could not tell the sex of
the eyes, though I imagined that they belonged to my visitors of the night before.  Dressing
as I did en Amazone seemed to afford them infinite glee; and when I arrived at the cloth nether
garments of my riding-habit, they went into shrieks of laughter.  However, I put a bold face
on it, and sallied forth to the square of the village, where I found the rest of our party.
Our horses were being led up and down by the soldiers; our camels with water in goats' skins,
and our baggage beasts, our camp-followers, and our free-lances, were drawn up on one side.
Omar Beg accompanied us out of the village with a troop of cavalry, and started us with forty
dromedaries, each carrying two soldiers.  The cavalcade looked very fine, and when Omar Beg
took his leave of us we were about one hundred and sixty strong.

We had a long day's march through the desert.  It was very hot.  We went through a wild defile,
rested, and climbed up a mountain.  We then returned to the plains, and in the afternoon we
saw a mirage--castles and green fields.  We were late in finding our tents, and very tired.
Again we did not undress, but slept with our weapons by our sides.

The next morning we set out again at 6:30.  We rode towards a mountain in the distance, and
defiled by a picturesque and dangerous ledge amongst craggy peaks.  We had heard that the Bedawin
knew of a well hereabouts, and we determined to find it.  We discovered it, and so abolished
the worst difficulty which travellers had to undergo in visiting Palmyra.  We rested by the
well, which was full of the purest water.  When sitting by it, we heard guns echoing like thunder
in the mountains.  We thought it might mean a Bedawin attack; but probably it was a signal,
and they found us too strong.  They were on our track the whole time.  After an hour we descended
once more into the arid plain, and rode on and on.  At last we descried dimly the khan which
was to be our night halt.  It seemed quite close, but the nearer we rode the farther it seemed.
We reached it at last, a fine old pile, deserted and solitary, which looked splendid in the
sunset.  Our camp by moonlight will ever live in my memory: the black tents, the animals picketed,
the camels resting, the Turkish soldiery seated around, and the wild men and muleteers singing
and dancing.

On this night, as on all nights, I had always plenty to do.  It was Richard's business to take
the notes and sketches, observations and maps, and to gather all the information.  I acted
as his secretary and aide- de-camp.  My other business was to take care of the stable, see
that the horses were properly groomed, and look after any sick or wounded men. My duties varied
according to the place in which we halted for the night. If it were near an inhabited place,
Richard sat in state on his divan, and received the chiefs with narghilehs and sherbet.  I
saluted, and walked off with the horses, and saw that they were properly groomed and fed. 
Sometimes I groomed my own horse and Richard's too, if I did not feel sure that they would
be properly attended to.  I would then go back to my husband, sit on the divan at a respectful
distance and in a respectful attitude, speak if spoken to, and accept, if invited, a little
sherbet or a narghileh.  I then saluted, went again to see that the horses were properly picketed
for the night, prepared my husband's supper, and returned to his tent for supper and bed; and
the next day the same over again.  So far as I could I made myself useful, and adapted myself
to my surroundings as an Eastern woman would have done.

The next day, our eighth from leaving Damascus, we went out of camp at 6.30, and rode over
the hot stony desert for five hours.  Suddenly we descried a small lake, but about one hundred
and fifty Bedawin were there before us.  At first we thought it was a Ghazu; but we found afterwards
that it was only a party of one hundred and fifty watering their animals; they could not attack
us until they had time to collect their men, and mustered some six hundred strong.  However,
they looked "nasty"; and as our stragglers were all over the place, to attract their attention,
and bring us together, asked Richard's leave to make a display of tir. We put an orange on
a lance-point seventy yards off.  I had the first shot.  By good luck I hit, and by better
luck still they did not ask for a second, which I might have missed, so that I came off with
a great reputation.  Everybody fired in turns, and all our people came up by degrees, until
we mustered enough to fight any Ghazu, if necessary.  We then formed into a single line, and
rode until the remainder of the day. We approached Palmyra thus, cheering and singing warsongs;
and I am sure that we must have looked very imposing.

The first sight of Palmyra is like a regiment of cavalry drawn up in a single line; but as
we got nearer gradually the ruins began to stand out one by one in the sunlight, and a grander
sight I have never looked upon, so gigantic, so extensive, so desolate was this splendid city
of the dead rising out of, and half buried in, a sea of sand.  One felt as if one were wandering
in some forgotten world.

The Shaykh of Palmyra and his people came out to greet us, and he conducted us to his house.
We approached it over the massive blocks of stone that formed the pavement and by a flight
of broad steps.  The interior of Palmyra resembles a group of wasps' nests on a large scale,
clinging to the gigantic walls of a ruined temple.  The people were hideous, poor, ragged,
dirty, and diseased, nearly every one of them afflicted with ophthalmia.  What have the descendants
of the great Zenobia done to come to this?  We dined at the Shaykh's house, and had our coffee
and pipes.  Later we returned to our camp, which consisted of our five tents and ten for the
eighty soldiers.  It was picturesquely placed, close to the east of the grand colonnade of
Palmyra, for the sake of being near the wells, and the animals were picketed as much as possible
in the shelter, for during our sojourn there we suffered from ice and snow, sirocco, burning
heat, and furious sou'westers.  We had two sulphurous wells, one to bathe in, and the other
to drink out of. Everybody felt a little tired, and we went to bed early.  It was the first
night for eight days that we had really undressed and bathed and slept, and it was such a refreshment
that I did not wake for twelve hours.  My journal of the following morning contains a very
short notice. We were considerably refreshed, and attended to our horses and several camp wants.
We lounged about till breakfast and wrote our diaries.  It was scorchingly hot weather.  We
were here for five days, so we did not begin serious work until noon.

So many travellers have described Palmyra that it is not necessary for me to describe it again,
and I suppose that everybody knows that at one time it was ruled over in the days of its splendour
by Zenobia, a great queen of the East.  She was an extraordinary woman, full of wisdom and
heroic courage.  She was conquered by the Romans after a splendid reign, and the Emperor Aurelian
caused her to be led through Rome bound in fetters of gold.  The city must once have been magnificent,
but it was now a ruin. The chief temple was that of the Sun.  The whole city was full of columns
and ruined colonnades.  One of the great colonnades is a mile long.

I saw something of the inner life of Palmyra, the more so because I wore a dress very much
like that of a man.  So attired I could go almost where I liked, and enter all the places which
women are not deemed worthy to see.  My chief difficulty was that my toilet always had to be
performed in the dead of night.  The others never appeared to make any, except in the stream,
which was too public for me, and I did not wish to appear singular.

