Confused ideas of the vulgar on the subject.

A miracle in the sense of a contravention of natural laws an absurdity.

In the sense of an event, whose cause is unknown, less edifying than an event better understood.

God's providence identical with the course of nature. How Scripture miracles may be interpreted.

CHAPTER VII - Of the Interpretation of Scripture.

Current systems of interpretation erroneous.

Only true system to interpret it by itself.

Reasons why this system cannot now be carried out in its entirety.

Yet these difficulties do not interfere with our understanding the plainest and most important
passages.

Rival systems examined - that of a supernatural faculty being necessary - refuted.

That of Maimonides.

Refuted.

Traditions of the Pharisees and the Papists rejected.

CHAPTER VIII. - Of the authorship of the Pentateuch, and the other historical books of the
Old Testament.

The Pentateuch not written by Moses.

His actual writings distinct.

Traces of late authorship in the other historical books.

All the historical books the work of one man.

Probably Ezra.

Who compiled first the book of Deuteronomy.

And then a history, distinguishing the books by the names of their subjects.

CHAPTER IX. - Other questions about these books.

That these books have not been thoroughly revised and made to agree.

That there are many doubtful readings.

That the existing marginal notes are often such.

The other explanations of these notes refuted.

The hiatus.

CHAPTER X.- An Examination of the remaining books of the Old Testament according to the preceding
method.

Chronicles, Psalms, Proverbs.

Isaiah, Jeremiah.

Ezekiel, Hosea.

Other prophets, Jonah, Job.

Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther.

The author declines to undertake a similar detailed examination of the New Testament.

Author's Endnotes to the Treatise

CHAPTER VI.  -  OF MIRACLES.

(7) What pretension will not people in their folly advance!

(11) II.

(12) III.

(13) IV.

(14) Such are the principal subjects which will be discussed in this chapter, and which will
serve, I think, not a little to further the object of this treatise.

(15) Our first point is easily proved from what we showed in Chap. (24) We have hinted as much
in Chap. II., in speaking of the sun standing still in the time of Joshua, and to say on the
subject when we come to treat of the interpretation of miracles later on in this chapter. (26)
I thus proceed with the demonstration.

(31) Let us take miracle as meaning that which cannot be explained through natural causes.

(36) It is only phenomena that we clearly and distinctly understand, which heighten our knowledge
of God, and most clearly indicate His will and decrees. (46) Scripture nowhere states the doctrine
openly, but it can readily be inferred from several passages.

(50) Asaph, though he had heard of so many miracles, yet doubted of the providence of God,
and would have turned himself from the true way, if he had not at last come to understand true
blessedness. (See Ps. lxxxiii.) (51) Solomon, too, at a time when the Jewish nation was at
the height of its prosperity, suspects that all things happen by chance. (See Eccles. iii:19,
20, 21; and chap. ix:2, 3, &c.)

(52) Lastly, nearly all the prophets found it very hard to reconcile the order of nature and
human affairs with the conception they had formed of God's providence, whereas philosophers
who endeavour to understand things by clear conceptions of them, rather than by miracles, have
always found the task extremely easy - at least, such of them as place true happiness solely
in virtue and peace of mind, and who aim at obeying nature, rather than being obeyed by her.
(53) Such persons rest assured that God directs nature according to the requirements of universal
laws, not according to the requirements of the particular laws of human nature, and trial,
therefore, God's scheme comprehends, not only the human race, but the whole of nature.

(54) It is plain, then, from Scripture itself, that miracles can give no knowledge of God,
nor clearly teach us the providence of God. (55) As to the frequent statements in Scripture,
that God wrought miracles to make Himself plain to man - as in Exodus x:2, where He deceived
the Egyptians, and gave signs of Himself, that the Israelites might know that He was God,-
it does not, therefore, follow that miracles really taught this truth, but only that the Jews
held opinions which laid them easily open to conviction by miracles. (56) We have shown in
Chap. II. that the reasons assigned by the prophets, or those which are formed from revelation,
are not assigned in accordance with ideas universal and common to all, but in accordance with
the accepted doctrines, however absurd, and with the opinions of those to whom the revelation
was given, or those whom the Holy Spirit wished to convince.

(57) This we have illustrated by many Scriptural instances, and can further cite Paul, who
to the Greeks was a Greek, and to the Jews a Jew. (58) But although these miracles could convince
the Egyptians and Jews from their standpoint, they could not give a true idea and knowledge
of God, but only cause them to admit that there was a Deity more powerful than anything known
to them, and that this Deity took special care of the Jews, who had just then an unexpectedly
happy issue of all their affairs. (59) They could not teach them that God cares equally for
all, for this can be taught only by philosophy: the Jews, and all who took their knowledge
of God's providence from the dissimilarity of human conditions of life and the inequalities
of fortune, persuaded themselves that God loved the Jews above all men, though they did not
surpass their fellows in true human perfection. (63) Of these I will cite a few. (65) His "sending"
was merely the ordinary course of nature.

(68) In Psalm cv. 24 it is said that God changed the hearts of the Egyptians, so that they
hated the Israelites. (69) This was evidently a natural change, as appears from Exodus, chap.i.,
where we find no slight reason for the Egyptians reducing the Israelites to slavery.

(70) In Genesis ix:13, God tells Noah that He will set His bow in the cloud; this action of
God's is but another way of expressing the refraction and reflection which the rays of the
sun are subjected to in drops of water.

(71) In Psalm cxlvii:18, the natural action and warmth of the wind, by which hoar frost and
snow are melted, are styled the word of the Lord, and in verse 15 wind and cold are called
the commandment and word of God.

(72) In Psalm civ:4, wind and fire are called the angels and ministers of God, and various
other passages of the same sort are found in Scripture, clearly showing that the decree, commandment,
fiat, and word of God are merely expressions for the action and order of nature.

(73) Thus it is plain that all the events narrated in Scripture came to pass naturally, and
are referred directly to God because Scripture, as we have shown, does not aim at explaining
things by their natural causes, but only at narrating what appeals to the popular imagination,
and doing so in the manner best calculated to excite wonder, and consequently to impress the
minds of the masses with devotion. (74) If, therefore, events are found in the Bible which
we cannot refer to their causes, nay, which seem entirely to contradict the order of nature,
we must not come to a stand, but assuredly believe that whatever did really happen happened
naturally. (75) This view is confirmed by the fact that in the case of every miracle there
were many attendant circumstances, though these were not always related, especially where the
narrative was of a poetic character.

(76) The circumstances of the miracles clearly show, I maintain, that natural causes were needed.
(77) For instance, in order to infect the Egyptians with blains, it was necessary that Moses
should scatter ashes in the air (Exod. ix: 10); the locusts also came upon the land of Egypt
by a command of God in accordance with nature, namely, by an east wind blowing for a whole
day and night; and they departed by a very strong west wind (Exod. x:14, 19). (78) By a similar
Divine mandate the sea opened a way for the Jews (Exo. xiv:21), namely, by an east wind which
blew very strongly all night.

(79) So, too, when Elisha would revive the boy who was believed to be dead, he was obliged
to bend over him several times until the flesh of the child waxed warm, and at last he opened
his eyes (2 Kings iv:34, 35).

(80) Again, in John's Gospel (chap. ix.) certain acts are mentioned as performed by Christ
preparatory to healing the blind man, and there are numerous other instances showing that something
further than the absolute fiat of God is required for working a miracle.

(81) Wherefore we may believe that, although the circumstances attending miracles are not related
always or in full detail, yet a miracle was never performed without them.

(82) This is confirmed by Exodus xiv:27, where it is simply stated that "Moses stretched forth
his hand, and the waters of the sea returned to their strength in the morning," no mention
being made of a wind; but in the song of Moses (Exod. xv:10) we read, "Thou didst blow with
Thy wind (i.e. with a very strong wind), and the sea covered them." (83) Thus the attendant
circumstance is omitted in the history, and the miracle is thereby enhanced.

(89) There remain some points concerning the interpretation of miracles to be noted, or rather
to be recapitulated, for most of them have been already stated.

(111) In this way many occurrences in the Bible are to be regarded merely as Jewish expressions.
(121) In Ps. cxlviii:6, for instance, and Jer. xxxi:35.

(126) To these considerations we must add, that miracles require causes and attendant circumstances,
and that they follow, not from some mysterious royal power which the masses attribute to God,
but from the Divine rule and decree, that is (as we have shown from Scripture itself) from
the laws and order of nature; lastly, that miracles can be wrought even by false prophets,
as is proved from Deut. xiii. and Matt. xxiv:24. (128) This can easily be done by anyone, now
that I have set forth the rules drawn from Scripture.

(130) This is also the opinion of Josephus, for at the conclusion of the second book of his
"Antiquities," he writes: Let no man think this story incredible of the sea's dividing to save
these people, for we find it in ancient records that this hath been seen before, whether by
God's extraordinary will or by the course of nature it is indifferent. (131) The same thing
happened one time to the Macedonians, under the command of Alexander, when for want of another
passage the Pamphylian Sea divided to make them way; God's Providence making use of Alexander
at that time as His instrument for destroying the Persian Empire. (132) This is attested by
all the historians who have pretended to write the Life of that Prince. (133) But people are
at liberty to think what they please."

(134) Such are the words of Josephus, and such is his opinion on faith in miracles. II., and
in themselves surpassed human comprehension. (16) From miracles God's divinity cannot be proved,
as I have already shown, and need not now repeat, for miracles could be wrought by false prophets.

(19) Our knowledge of Scripture must then be looked for in Scripture only. (22) What I mean
by its history, and what should be the chief points elucidated, I will now explain. (24) We
shall thus be able to investigate every expression by comparison with common conversational
usages. (27) Lastly, a note of all the passages which are ambiguous or obscure, or which seem
mutually contradictory. (29) We are at work not on the truth of passages, but solely on their
meaning.

(31) I will illustrate my meaning by an example. (40) The whole knowledge of the Bible must
be sought solely from itself.

(43) All such information should, as I have said, be contained in the "history" of Scripture.
(49) But in this further arguing, also, we shall require a method very like that employed in
interpreting nature from her history. (58) Wherefore we must consider who was the speaker,
what was the occasion, and to whom were the words addressed. (64) All this is plainly in accordance
with reason.

(68) How we are to arrive at the intention of the prophets in such cases I will briefly explain.
(72) The latter may be guessed at but cannot be inferred with certainty from Scriptural premises.

(78) No one has ever been able to change the meaning of a word in ordinary use, though many
have changed the meaning of a particular sentence. (83) I will now point out its difficulties
and shortcomings, which prevent our gaining a complete and assured knowledge of the Sacred Text.

(84) Its first great difficulty consists in its requiring a thorough knowledge of the Hebrew
language. (85) Where is such knowledge to be obtained? (86) The men of old who employed the
Hebrew tongue have left none of the principles and bases of their language to posterity; we
have from them absolutely nothing in the way of dictionary, grammar, or rhetoric.

(87) Now the Hebrew nation has lost all its grace and beauty (as one would expect after the
defeats and persecutions it has gone through), and has only retained certain fragments of its
language and of a few books. (88) Nearly all the names of fruits, birds, and fishes, and many
other words have perished in the wear and tear of time. (89) Further, the meaning of many nouns
and verbs which occur in the Bible are either utterly lost, or are subjects of dispute. (90)
And not only are these gone, but we are lacking in a knowledge of Hebrew phraseology. (91)
The devouring tooth of time has destroyed turns of expression peculiar to the Hebrews, so that
we know them no more.

(92) Therefore we cannot investigate as we would all the meanings of a sentence by the uses
of the language; and there are many phrases of which the meaning is most obscure or altogether
inexplicable, though the component words are perfectly plain.

(93) To this impossibility of tracing the history of the Hebrew language must be added its
particular nature and composition: these give rise to so many ambiguities that it is impossible
to find a method which would enable us to gain a certain knowledge of all the statements in
Scripture, [Endnote 7]. (94) In addition to the sources of ambiguities common to all languages,
there are many peculiar to Hebrew. (95) These, I think, it worth while to mention.

(96) Firstly, an ambiguity often arises in the Bible from our mistaking one letter for another
similar one. (97) The Hebrews divide the letters of the alphabet into five classes, according
to the five organs of the month employed in pronouncing them, namely, the lips, the tongue,
the teeth, the palate, and the throat. (98) For instance, Alpha, Ghet, Hgain, He, are called
gutturals, and are barely distinguishable, by any sign that we know, one from the other. (99)
El, which signifies to, is often taken for hgal, which signifies above, and vice versa. (100)
Hence sentences are often rendered rather ambiguous or meaningless.

(101) A second difficulty arises from the multiplied meaning of conjunctions and adverbs. (102)
For instance, vau serves promiscuously for a particle of union or of separation, meaning, and,
but, because, however, then: ki, has seven or eight meanings, namely, wherefore, although,
if, when, inasmuch as, because, a burning, &c., and so on with almost all particles.

(103) The third very fertile source of doubt is the fact that Hebrew verbs in the indicative
mood lack the present, the past imperfect, the pluperfect, the future perfect, and other tenses
most frequently employed in other languages; in the imperative and infinitive moods they are
wanting in all except the present, and a subjunctive mood does not exist. (104) Now, although
all these defects in moods and tenses may be supplied by certain fundamental rules of the language
with ease and even elegance, the ancient writers evidently neglected such rules altogether,
and employed indifferently future for present and past, and vice versa past for future, and
also indicative for imperative and subjunctive, with the result of considerable confusion.

(105) Besides these sources of ambiguity there are two others, one very important. (106) Firstly,
there are in Hebrew no vowels; secondly, the sentences are not separated by any marks elucidating
the meaning or separating the clauses. (107) Though the want of these two has generally been
supplied by points and accents, such substitutes cannot be accepted by us, inasmuch as they
were invented and designed by men of an after age whose authority should carry no weight. (108)
The ancients wrote without points (that is, without vowels and accents), as is abundantly testified;
their descendants added what was lacking, according to their own ideas of Scriptural interpretation;
wherefore the existing accents and points are simply current interpretations, and are no more
authoritative than any other commentaries.

(109) Those who are ignorant of this fact cannot justify the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews
for interpreting (chap. xi;21) Genesis (xlvii:31) very differently from the version given in
our Hebrew text as at present pointed, as though the Apostle had been obliged to learn the
meaning of Scripture from those who added the points. (110) In my opinion the latter are clearly
wrong. (111) In order that everyone may judge for himself, and also see how the discrepancy
arose simply from the want of vowels, I will give both interpretations. (112)Those who pointed
our version read, "And Israel bent himself over, or (changing Hqain into Aleph, a similar letter)
towards, the head of the bed." (113) The author of the Epistle reads, "And Israel bent himself
over the head of his staff," substituting mate for mita, from which it only differs in respect
of vowels. (114) Now as in this narrative it is Jacob's age only that is in question, and not
his illness, which is not touched on till the next chapter, it seems more likely that the historian
intended to say that Jacob bent over the head of his staff (a thing commonly used by men of
advanced age for their support) than that he bowed himself at the head of his bed, especially
as for the former reading no substitution of letters is required. (115) In this example I have
desired not only to reconcile the passage in the Epistle with the passage in Genesis, but also
and chiefly to illustrate how little trust should be placed in the points and accents which
are found in our present Bible, and so to prove that he who would be without bias in interpreting
Scripture should hesitate about accepting them, and inquire afresh for himself. (116) Such
being the nature and structure of the Hebrew language, one may easily understand that many
difficulties are likely to arise, and that no possible method could solve all of them. (117)
It is useless to hope for a way out of our difficulties in the comparison of various parallel
passages (we have shown that the only method of discovering the true sense of a passage out
of many alternative ones is to see what are the usages of the language), for this comparison
of parallel passages can only accidentally throw light on a difficult point, seeing that the
prophets never wrote with the express object of explaining their own phrases or those of other
people, and also because we cannot infer the meaning of one prophet or apostle by the meaning
of another, unless on a purely practical question, not when the matter is speculative, or if
a miracle, or history is being narrated. (118) I might illustrate my point with instances,
for there are many inexplicable phrases in Scripture, but I would rather pass on to consider
the difficulties and imperfections of the method under discussion.

(119) A further difficulty attends the method, from the fact that it requires the history of
all that has happened to every book in the Bible; such a history we are often quite unable
to furnish. (120) Of the authors, or (if the expression be preferred), the writers of many
of the books, we are either in complete ignorance, or at any rate in doubt, as I will point
out at length. (121) Further, we do not know either the occasions or the epochs when these
books of unknown authorship were written; we cannot say into what hands they fell, nor how
the numerous varying versions originated; nor, lastly, whether there were not other versions,
now lost. (122) I have briefly shown that such knowledge is necessary, but I passed over certain
considerations which I will now draw attention to. (125) I think this must be tolerably evident
to all. (129) All these stories are obviously alike, but we judge them very differently. (130)
The first only sought to amuse, the second had a political object, the third a religious object.(131)
We gather this simply from the opinions we had previously formed of the authors.

(133) A further difficulty attends this method in the case of some of the books of Scripture,
namely, that they are no longer extant in their original language. (133) The Gospel according
to Matthew, and certainly the Epistle to the Hebrews, were written, it is thought, in Hebrew,
though they no longer exist in that form. (134) Aben Ezra affirms in his commentaries that
the book of Job was translated into Hebrew out of another language, and that its obscurity
arises from this fact. (135) I say nothing of the apocryphal books, for their authority stands
on very inferior ground. (143) Besides, I do not doubt that everyone will see that such a method
only requires the aid of natural reason.

(146) There only remains to examine the opinions of those who differ from me. (148) What is
meant by this supernatural faculty I will leave to its propounders to explain. (150) If we
look at their interpretations, they contain nothing supernatural, at least nothing but the
merest conjectures. (153) But the prophets and apostles did not preach to the faithful only,
but chiefly to the unfaithful and wicked. (155) Moses, too, would have given his laws in vain,
if they could only be comprehended by the faithful, who need no law.

(157) The opinion of Maimonides was widely different. (162) Yet two things hinder me from doing
as I have said, and believing that the world is eternal. (181) Such licence is utterly opposed
to the teaching of this and the preceding chapters, and, moreover, will be evident to everyone
as rash and excessive.

(182) But if we grant all this licence, what can it effect after all? Absolutely nothing. (186)
In conclusion, then, we dismiss Maimonides' theory as harmful, useless, and absurd. (195) Thus
in this way also, we have shown that our method of interpreting Scripture is the best.

CHAPTER VIII.  -  OF THE AUTHORSHIP OF THE PENTATEUCH AND THE OTHER HISTORICAL BOOKS OF THE
OLD TESTAMENT

(1) In the former chapter we treated of the foundations and principles of Scriptural knowledge,
and showed that it consists solely in a trustworthy history of the sacred writings; such a
history, in spite of its indispensability, the ancients neglected, or at any rate, whatever
they may have written or handed down has perished in the lapse of time, consequently the groundwork
for such an investigation is to a great extent, cut from under us. (2) This might be put up
with if succeeding generations had confined themselves within the limits of truth, and had
handed down conscientiously what few particulars they had received or discovered without any
additions from their own brains: as it is, the history of the Bible is not so much imperfect
as untrustworthy: the foundations are not only too scanty for building upon, but are also unsound.
(3) It is part of my purpose to remedy these defects, and to remove common theological prejudices.
(4) But I fear that I am attempting my task too late, for men have arrived at the pitch of
not suffering contradiction, but defending obstinately whatever they have adopted under the
name of religion. (5) So widely have these prejudices taken possession of men's minds, that
very few, comparatively speaking, will listen to reason. (6) However, I will make the attempt,
and spare no efforts, for there is no positive reason for despairing of success.

(7) In order to treat the subject methodically, I will begin with the received opinions concerning
the true authors of the sacred books, and in the first place, speak of the author of the Pentateuch,
who is almost universally supposed to have been Moses. (8) The Pharisees are so firmly convinced
of his identity, that they account as a heretic anyone who differs from them on the subject.
(9) Wherefore, Aben Ezra, a man of enlightened intelligence, and no small learning, who was
the first, so far as I know, to treat of this opinion, dared not express his meaning openly,
but confined himself to dark hints which I shall not scruple to elucidate, thus throwing, full
light on the subject.

(10) The words of Aben Ezra which occur in his commentary on Deuteronomy are as follows: "Beyond
Jordan, &c . . . If so be that thou understandest the mystery of the twelve . . .  moreover
Moses wrote the law . . .  The Canaanite was then in the land . . . . it shall be revealed
on the mount of God . . . . then also behold his bed, his iron bed, then shalt thou know the
truth." (11) In these few words he hints, and also shows that it was not Moses who wrote the
Pentateuch, but someone who lived long after him, and further, that the book which Moses wrote
was something different from any now extant.

(12) To prove this, I say, he draws attention to the facts:

(13) 1. That the preface to Deuteronomy could not have been written by Moses, inasmuch as he
ad never crossed the Jordan.

(14) II. That the whole book of Moses was written at full length on the circumference of a
single altar (Deut. xxvii, and Josh. viii:37), which altar, according to the Rabbis, consisted
of only twelve stones: therefore the book of Moses must have been of far less extent than the
Pentateuch. (15) This is what our author means, I think, by the mystery of the twelve, unless
he is referring to the twelve curses contained in the chapter of Deuteronomy above cited, which
he thought could not have been contained in the law, because Moses bade the Levites read them
after the recital of the law, and so bind the people to its observance. (16) Or again, he may
have had in his mind the last chapter of Deuteronomy which treats of the death of Moses, and
which contains twelve verses. (17) But there is no need to dwell further on these and similar
conjectures.

(18) III. That in Deut. xxxi:9, the expression occurs, "and Moses wrote the law:" words that
cannot be ascribed to Moses, but must be those of some other writer narrating the deeds and
writings of Moses.

(19) IV. That in Genesis xii:6, the historian, after narrating that Abraham journeyed through
the and of Canaan, adds, "and the Canaanite was then in the land," thus clearly excluding the
time at which he wrote. (20) So that this passage must have been written after the death of
Moses, when the Canaanites had been driven out, and no longer possessed the land.

(21) Aben Ezra, in his commentary on the passage, alludes to the difficulty as follows:- "And
the Canaanite was then in the land: it appears that Canaan, the grandson of Noah, took from
another the land which bears his name; if this be not the true meaning, there lurks some mystery
in the passage, and let him who understands it keep silence." (22) That is, if Canaan invaded
those regions, the sense will be, the Canaanite was then in the land, in contradistinction
to the time when it had been held by another: but if, as follows from Gen. chap. x. Canaan
was the first to inhabit the land, the text must mean to exclude the time present, that is
the time at which it was written; therefore it cannot be the work of Moses, in whose time the
Canaanites still possessed those territories: this is the mystery concerning which silence
is recommended.

(23) V. That in Genesis xxii:14 Mount Moriah is called the mount of God, [Endnote 9], a name
which it did not acquire till after the building of the Temple; the choice of the mountain
was not made in the time of Moses, for Moses does not point out any spot as chosen by God;
on the contrary, he foretells that God will at some future time choose a spot to which this
name will be given.

(24) VI. Lastly, that in Deut. chap. iii., in the passage relating to Og, king of Bashan, these
words are inserted: "For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of giants: behold,
his bedstead was a bedstead of iron: is it not in Rabbath of the children of Ammon? nine cubits
was the length thereof, and four cubits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a man." (25)
This parenthesis most plainly shows that its writer lived long after Moses; for this mode of
speaking is only employed by one treating of things long past, and pointing to relics for the
sake of gaining credence: moreover, this bed was almost certainly first discovered by David,
who conquered the city of Rabbath (2 Sam. xii:30.) (26) Again, the historian a little further
on inserts after the words of Moses, "Jair, the son of Manasseh, took all the country of Argob
unto the coasts of Geshuri and Maachathi; and called them after his own name, Bashan-havoth-jair,
unto this day." (27) This passage, I say, is inserted to explain the words of Moses which precede
it. (29) The Hebrews in the time of the writer indisputably knew what territories belonged
to the tribe of Judah, but did not know them under the name of the jurisdiction of Argob, or
the land of the giants. (30) Therefore the writer is compelled to explain what these places
were which were anciently so styled, and at the same time to point out why they were at the
time of his writing known by the name of Jair, who was of the tribe of Manasseh, not of Judah.
(31) We have thus made clear the meaning of Aben Ezra and also the passages of the Pentateuch
which he cites in proof of his contention. (32) However, Aben Ezra does not call attention
to every instance, or even the chief ones; there remain many of greater importance, which may
be cited. (33) Namely (I.), that the writer of the books in question not only speaks of Moses
in the third person, but also bears witness to many details concerning him; for instance, "Moses
talked with God;" "The Lord spoke with Moses face to face; " "Moses was the meekest of men"
(Numb. xii:3); "Moses was wrath with the captains of the host; "Moses, the man of God, "Moses,
the servant of the Lord, died;" "There was never a prophet in Israel like unto Moses," &c.
(34) On the other hand, in Deuteronomy, where the law which Moses had expounded to the people
and written is set forth, Moses speaks and declares what he has done in the first person: "God
spake with me " (Deut. ii:1, 17, &c.), "I prayed to the Lord," &c. (35) Except at the end of
the book, when the historian, after relating the words of Moses, begins again to speak in the
third person, and to tell how Moses handed over the law which he had expounded to the people
in writing, again admonishing them, and further, how Moses ended his life. (36) All these details,
the manner of narration, the testimony, and the context of the whole story lead to the plain
conclusion that these books were written by another, and not by Moses in person.

(37) III. We must also remark that the history relates not only the manner of Moses' death
and burial, and the thirty days' mourning of the Hebrews, but further compares him with all
the prophets who came after him, and states that he surpassed them all. (38) "There was never
a prophet in Israel like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face." (39) Such testimony
cannot have been given of Moses by, himself, nor by any who immediately succeeded him, but
it must come from someone who lived centuries afterwards, especially, as the historian speaks
of past times. (40) "There was never a prophet," &c. (41) And of the place of burial, "No one
knows it to this day."

(42) III. We must note that some places are not styled by the names they bore during Moses'
lifetime, but by others which they obtained subsequently. (43) For instance, Abraham is said
to have pursued his enemies even unto Dan, a name not bestowed on the city till long after
the death of Joshua (Gen. xiv;14, Judges xviii;29).

(44) IV. The narrative is prolonged after the death of Moses, for in Exodus xvi:34 we read
that "the children of Israel did eat manna forty years until they came to a land inhabited,
until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan." (45) In other words, until the time
alluded to in Joshua vi:12.

(46) So, too, in Genesis xxxvi:31 it is stated, "These are the kings that reigned in Edom before
there reigned any king over the children of Israel." (47) The historian, doubtless, here relates
the kings of Idumaea before that territory was conquered by David [Endnote 10] and garrisoned,
as we read in 2 Sam. viii:14. (48) From what has been said, it is thus clearer than the sun
at noonday that the Pentateuch was not written by Moses, but by someone who lived long after
Moses. (49) Let us now turn our attention to the books which Moses actually did write, and
which are cited in the Pentateuch; thus, also, shall we see that they were different from the
Pentateuch. (50) Firstly, it appears from Exodus xvii:14 that Moses, by the command of God,
wrote an account of the war against Amalek. (51) The book in which he did so is not named in
the chapter just quoted, but in Numb. xxi:12 a book is referred to under the title of the wars
of God, and doubtless this war against Amalek and the castrametations said in Numb. xxxiii:2
to have been written by Moses are therein described. (52) We hear also in Exod. xxiv:4 of another
book called the Book of the Covenant, which Moses read before the Israelites when they first
made a covenant with God. (53) But this book or this writing contained very little, namely,
the laws or commandments of God which we find in Exodus xx:22 to the end of chap. xxiv., and
this no one will deny who reads the aforesaid chapter rationally and impartially. (54) It is
there stated that as soon as Moses had learnt the feeling of the people on the subject of making
a covenant with God, he immediately wrote down God's laws and utterances, and in the morning,
after some ceremonies had been performed, read out the conditions of the covenant to an assembly
of the whole people. (55) When these had been gone through, and doubtless understood by all,
the whole people gave their assent.

(56) Now from the shortness of the time taken in its perusal and also from its nature as a
compact, this document evidently contained nothing more than that which we have just described.
(57) Further, it is clear that Moses explained all the laws which he had received in the fortieth
year after the exodus from Egypt; also that he bound over the people a second time to observe
them, and that finally he committed them to writing (Deut. i:5; xxix:14; xxxi:9), in a book
which contained these laws explained, and the new covenant, and this book was therefore called
the book of the law of God: the same which was afterwards added to by Joshua when he set forth
the fresh covenant with which he bound over the people and which he entered into with God (Josh.
xxiv:25, 26).

(58) Now, as we have extent no book containing this covenant of Moses and also the covenant
of Joshua, we must perforce conclude that it has perished, unless, indeed, we adopt the wild
conjecture of the Chaldean paraphrast Jonathan, and twist about the words of Scripture to our
heart's content. (59) This commentator, in the face of our present difficulty, preferred corrupting
the sacred text to confessing his own ignorance. (61) What is to be done with persons who will
only see what pleases them? (62) What is such a proceeding if it is not denying Scripture,
and inventing another Bible out of our own heads? (63) We may therefore conclude that the book
of the law of God which Moses wrote was not the Pentateuch, but something quite different,
which the author of the Pentateuch duly inserted into his book. (64) So much is abundantly
plain both from what I have said and from what I am about to add. (65) For in the passage of
Deuteronomy above quoted, where it is related that Moses wrote the book of the law, the historian
adds that he handed it over to the priests and bade them read it out at a stated time to the
whole people. (66) This shows that the work was of much less length than the Pentateuch, inasmuch
as it could be read through at one sitting so as to be understood by all; further, we must
not omit to notice that out of all the books which Moses wrote, this one book of the second
covenant and the song (which latter he wrote afterwards so that all the people might learn
it), was the only one which he caused to be religiously guarded and preserved. (67) In the
first covenant he had only bound over those who were present, but in the second covenant he
bound over all their descendants also (Dent. xxix:14), and therefore ordered this covenant
with future ages to be religiously preserved, together with the Song, which was especially
addressed to posterity: as, then, we have no proof that Moses wrote any book save this of the
covenant, and as he committed no other to the care of posterity; and, lastly, as there are
many passages in the Pentateuch which Moses could not have written, it follows that the belief
that Moses was the author of the Pentateuch is ungrounded and even irrational. (68) Someone
will perhaps ask whether Moses did not also write down other laws when they were first revealed
to him - in other words, whether, during the course of forty years, he did not write down any
of the laws which he promulgated, save only those few which I have stated to be contained in
the book of the first covenant. (69) To this I would answer, that although it seems reasonable
to suppose that Moses wrote down the laws at the time when he wished to communicate them to
the people, yet we are not warranted to take it as proved, for I have shown above that we must
make no assertions in such matters which we do not gather from Scripture, or which do not flow
as legitimate consequences from its fundamental principles. (70) We must not accept whatever
is reasonably probable. (71) However even reason in this case would not force such a conclusion
upon us: for it may be that the assembly of elders wrote down the decrees of Moses and communicated
them to the people, and the historian collected them, and duly set them forth in his narrative
of the life of Moses. (72) So much for the five books of Moses: it is now time for us to turn
to the other sacred writings.

(73) The book of Joshua may be proved not to be an autograph by reasons similar to those we
have just employed: for it must be some other than Joshua who testifies that the fame of Joshua
was spread over the whole world; that he omitted nothing of what Moses had taught (Josh. vi:27;
viii. last verse; xi:15); that he grew old and summoned an assembly of the whole people, and
finally that he departed this life. (74) Furthermore, events are related which took place after
Joshua's death. (75) For instance, that the Israelites worshipped God, after his death, so
long as there were any old men alive who remembered him; and in chap. xvi:10, we read that
"Ephraim and Manasseh did not drive out the Canaanites which dwelt in Gezer, but the Canaanite
dwelt in the land of Ephraim unto this day, and was tributary to him." (76) This is the same
statement as that in Judges, chap. i., and the phrase "unto this day" shows that the writer
was speaking of ancient times. (77) With these texts we may compare the last verse of chap.
xv., concerning the sons of Judah, and also the history of Caleb in the same chap. v:14. (78)
Further, the building of an altar beyond Jordan by the two tribes and a half, chap. xxii:10,
sqq., seems to have taken place after the death of Joshua, for in the whole narrative his name
is never mentioned, but the people alone held council as to waging war, sent out legates, waited
for their return, and finally approved of their answer.

(79) Lastly, from chap. x:14, it is clear that the book was written many generations after
the death of Joshua, for it bears witness, there was never any, day like unto, that day, either
before or after, that the Lord hearkened to the voice of a man," &c. (80) If, therefore, Joshua
wrote any book at all, it was that which is quoted in the work now before us, chap. x:13.

(81) With regard to the book of Judges, I suppose no rational person persuades himself that
it was written by the actual Judges. (82) For the conclusion of the whole history contained
in chap. ii. clearly shows that it is all the work - of a single historian. (83) Further, inasmuch
as the writer frequently tells us that there was then no king in Israel, it is evident that
the book was written after the establishment of the monarchy.

(84) The books of Samuel need not detain us long, inasmuch as the narrative in them is continued
long after Samuel's death; but I should like to draw attention to the fact that it was written
many generations after Samuel's death. (85) For in book i. chap. ix:9, the historian remarks
in a, parenthesis, "Beforetime, in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spake:
Come, and let us go to the seer; for he that is now called a prophet was beforetime called a seer."

(86) Lastly, the books of Kings, as we gather from internal evidence, were compiled from the
books of King Solomon (I Kings xi:41), from the chronicles of the kings of Judah (1 Kings xiv:19,
29), and the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

(87) We may, therefore, conclude that all the books we have considered hitherto are compilations,
and that the events therein are recorded as having happened in old time. (88) Now, if we turn
our attention to the connection and argument of all these books, we shall easily see that they
were all written by a single historian, who wished to relate the antiquities of the Jews from
their first beginning down to the first destruction of the city. (89) The way in which the
several books are connected one with the other is alone enough to show us that they form the
narrative of one and the same writer. (90) For as soon as he has related the life of Moses,
the historian thus passes on to the story of Joshua: "And it came to pass after that Moses
the servant of the Lord was dead, that God spake unto Joshua," &c., so in the same way, after
the death of Joshua was concluded, he passes with identically the same transition and connection
to the history of the Judges: "And it came to pass after that Joshua was dead, that the children
of Israel sought from God," &c. (91) To the book of Judges he adds the story of Ruth, as a
sort of appendix, in these words: "Now it came to pass in the days that the judges ruled, that
there was a famine in the land."

(92) The first book of Samuel is introduced with a similar phrase; and so is the second book
of Samuel. (93) Then, before the history of David is concluded, the historian passes in the
same way to the first book of Kings, and, after David's death, to the Second book of Kings.

(94) The putting together, and the order of the narratives, show that they are all the work
of one man, writing with a create aim; for the historian begins with relating the first origin
of the Hebrew nation, and then sets forth in order the times and the occasions in which Moses
put forth his laws, and made his predictions. (95) He then proceeds to relate how the Israelites
invaded the promised land in accordance with Moses' prophecy (Deut. vii.); and how, when the
land was subdued, they turned their backs on their laws, and thereby incurred many misfortunes
(Deut. xxxi:16, 17). (96) He tells how they wished to elect rulers, and how, according as these
rulers observed the law, the people flourished or suffered (Deut. xxviii:36); finally, how
destruction came upon the nation, even as Moses had foretold. (97) In regard to other matters,
which do not serve to confirm the law, the writer either passes over them in silence, or refers
the reader to other books for information. (98) All that is set down in the books we have conduces
to the sole object of setting forth the words and laws of Moses, and proving them by subsequent
events.(99) When we put together these three considerations, namely, the unity of the subject
of all the books, the connection between them, and the fact that they are compilations made
many generations after the events they relate had taken place, we come to the conclusion, as
I have just stated, that they are all the work of a single historian. (100) Who this historian
was, it is not so easy to show; but I suspect that he was Ezra, and there are several strong
reasons for adopting this hypothesis.

(101) The historian whom we already know to be but one individual brings his history down to
the liberation of Jehoiakim, and adds that he himself sat at the king's table all his life
- that is, at the table either of Jehoiakim, or of the son of Nebuchadnezzar, for the sense
of the passage is ambiguous: hence it follows that he did not live before the time of Ezra.
(102) But Scripture does not testify of any except of Ezra (Ezra vii:10), that he "prepared
his heart to seek the law of the Lord, and to set it forth, and further that he was a ready
scribe in the law of Moses." (103) Therefore, I can not find anyone, save Ezra, to whom to
attribute the sacred books.

(105) As, then, in Deuteronomy, we find not only the book of the law of Moses, or the greater
part of it, but also many things inserted for its better explanation, I conjecture that this
Deuteronomy is the book of the law of God, written, set forth, and explained by Ezra, which
is referred to in the text above quoted. (106) Two examples of the way matters were inserted
parenthetically in the text of Deuteronomy, with a view to its fuller explanation, we have
already given, in speaking of Aben Ezra's opinion. (107) Many others are found in the course
of the work: for instance, in chap. ii:12: "The Horims dwelt also in Seir beforetime; but the
children of Esau succeeded them, when they had destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in
their stead; as Israel did unto the land of his possession, which the Lord gave unto them."
(108) This explains verses 3 and 4 of the same chapter, where it is stated that Mount Seir,
which had come to the children of Esau for a possession, did not fall into their hands uninhabited;
but that they invaded it, and turned out and destroyed the Horims, who formerly dwelt therein,
even as the children of Israel had done unto the Canaanites after the death of Moses.

(109) So, also, verses 6, 7, 8, 9, of the tenth chapter are inserted parenthetically among
the words of Moses. Everyone must see that verse 8, which begins, "At that time the Lord separated
the tribe of Levi," necessarily refers to verse 5, and not to the death of Aaron, which is
only mentioned here by Ezra because Moses, in telling of the golden calf worshipped by the
people, stated that he had prayed for Aaron.

(110) He then explains that at the time at which Moses spoke, God had chosen for Himself the
tribe of Levi in order that He may point out the reason for their election, and for the fact
of their not sharing in the inheritance; after this digression, he resumes the thread of Moses'
speech. (111) To these parentheses we must add the preface to the book, and all the passages
in which Moses is spoken of in the third person, besides many which we cannot now distinguish,
though, doubtless, they would have been plainly recognized by the writer's contemporaries.

(112) If, I say, we were in possession of the book of the law as Moses wrote it, I do not doubt
that we should find a great difference in the words of the precepts, the order in which they
are given, and the reasons by which they are supported.

(113) A comparison of the decalogue in Deuteronomy with the decalogue in Exodus, where its
history is explicitly set forth, will be sufficient to show us a wide discrepancy in all these
three particulars, for the fourth commandment is given not only in a different form, but at
much greater length, while the reason for its observance differs wholly from that stated in
Exodus. (114) Again, the order in which the tenth commandment is explained differs in the two
versions. (115) I think that the differences here as elsewhere are the work of Ezra, who explained
the law of God to his contemporaries, and who wrote this book of the law of God, before anything
else; this I gather from the fact that it contains the laws of the country, of which the people
stood in most need, and also because it is not joined to the book which precedes it by any
connecting phrase, but begins with the independent statement, "these are the words of Moses."
(116) After this task was completed, I think Ezra set himself to give a complete account of
the history of the Hebrew nation from the creation of the world to the entire destruction of
the city, and in this account he inserted the book of Deuteronomy, and, possibly, he called
the first five books by the name of Moses, because his life is chiefly contained therein, and
forms their principal subject; for the same reason he called the sixth Joshua, the seventh
Judges, the eighth Ruth, the ninth, and perhaps the tenth, Samuel, and, lastly, the eleventh
and twelfth Kings. (117) Whether Ezra put the finishing touches to this work and finished it
as he intended, we will discuss in the next chapter.

CHAPTER IX  -  OTHER QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE SAME BOOKS: NAMELY, WHETHER THEY WERE COMPLETELY
FINISHED BY EZRA, AND, FURTHER, WHETHER THE MARGINAL NOTES WHICH ARE FOUND IN THE HEBREW TEXTS
WERE VARIOUS READINGS.

(1) How greatly the inquiry we have just made concerning the real writer of the twelve books
aids us in attaining a complete understanding of them, may be easily gathered solely from the
passages which we have adduced in confirmation of our opinion, and which would be most obscure
without it. (2) But besides the question of the writer, there are other points to notice which
common superstition forbids the multitude to apprehend. (3) Of these the chief is, that Ezra
(whom I will take to be the author of the aforesaid books until some more likely person be
suggested) did not put the finishing touches to the narrative contained therein, but merely
collected the histories from various writers, and sometimes simply set them down, leaving their
examination and arrangement to posterity.

(4) The cause (if it were not untimely death) which prevented him from completing his work
in all its portions, I cannot conjecture, but the fact remains most clear, although we have
lost the writings of the ancient Hebrew historians, and can only judge from the few fragments
which are still extant. (5) For the history of Hezekiah (2 Kings xviii:17), as written in the
vision of Isaiah, is related as it is found in the chronicles of the kings of Judah. (6) We
read the same story, told with few exceptions, [Endnote 11], in the same words, in the book
of Isaiah which was contained in the chronicles of the kings of Judah (2 Chron. xxxii:32).
(7) From this we must conclude that there were various versions of this narrative of Isaiah's,
unless, indeed, anyone would dream that in this, too, there lurks a mystery. (8) Further, the
last chapter of 2 Kings 27-30 is repeated in the last chapter of Jeremiah, v.31-34.

(9) Again, we find 2 Sam. vii. repeated in I Chron. xvii., but the expressions in the two passages
are so curiously varied [Endnote 12], that we can very easily see that these two chapters were
taken from two different versions of the history of Nathan.

(10) Lastly, the genealogy of the kings of Idumaea contained in Genesis xxxvi:31, is repeated
in the same words in 1 Chron. i., though we know that the author of the latter work took his
materials from other historians, not from the twelve books we have ascribed to Ezra. (10) We
may therefore be sure that if we still possessed the writings of the historians, the matter
would be made clear; however, as we have lost them, we can only examine the writings still
extant, and from their order and connection, their various repetitions, and, lastly, the contradictions
in dates which they contain, judge of the rest.

(11) These, then, or the chief of them, we will now go through. (12) First, in the story of
Judah and Tamar (Gen. xxxviii.) the historian thus begins: "And it came to pass at that time
that Judah went down from his brethren." (13) This time cannot refer to what immediately precedes
[Endnote 13], but must necessarily refer to something else, for from the time when Joseph was
sold into Egypt to the time when the patriarch Jacob, with all his family, set out thither,
cannot be reckoned as more than twenty-two years, for Joseph, when he was sold by his brethren,
was seventeen years old, and when he was summoned by Pharaoh from prison was thirty; if to
this we add the seven years of plenty and two of famine, the total amounts to twenty-two years.
(14) Now, in so short a period, no one can suppose that so many things happened as are described;
that Judah had three children, one after the other, from one wife, whom he married at the beginning
of the period; that the eldest of these, when he was old enough, married Tamar, and that after
he died his next brother succeeded to her; that, after all this, Judah, without knowing it,
had intercourse with his daughter-in-law, and that she bore him twins, and, finally, that the
eldest of these twins became a father within the aforesaid period. (15) As all these events
cannot have taken place within the period mentioned in Genesis, the reference must necessarily
be to something treated of in another book: and Ezra in this instance simply related the story,
and inserted it without examination among his other writings.

(16) However, not only this chapter but the whole narrative of Joseph and Jacob is collected
and set forth from various histories, inasmuch as it is quite inconsistent with itself. (17)
For in Gen. xlvii. we are told that Jacob, when he came at Joseph's bidding to salute Pharaoh,
was 130 years old. (18) If from this we deduct the twenty-two years which he passed sorrowing
for the absence of Joseph and the seventeen years forming Joseph's age when he was sold, and,
lastly, the seven years for which Jacob served for Rachel, we find that he was very advanced
in life, namely, eighty four, when he took Leah to wife, whereas Dinah was scarcely seven years
old when she was violated by Shechem, [Endnote 14]. (19) Simeon and Levi were aged respectively
eleven and twelve when they spoiled the city and slew all the males therein with the sword.

(20) There is no need that I should go through the whole Pentateuch. (21) If anyone pays attention
to the way in which all the histories and precepts in these five books are set down promiscuously
and without order, with no regard for dates; and further, how the same story is often repeated,
sometimes in a different version, he will easily, I say, discern that all the materials were
promiscuously collected and heaped together, in order that they might at some subsequent time
be more readily examined and reduced to order. (22) Not only these five books, but also the
narratives contained in the remaining seven, going down to the destruction of the city, are
compiled in the same way. (23) For who does not see that in Judges ii:6 a new historian is
being quoted, who had also written of the deeds of Joshua, and that his words are simply copied?
(24) For after our historian has stated in the last chapter of the book of Joshua that Joshua
died and was buried, and has promised, in the first chapter of Judges, to relate what happened
after his death, in what way, if he wished to continue the thread of his history, could he
connect the statement here made about Joshua with what had gone before?

(25) So, too, 1 Sam. 17, 18, are taken from another historian, who assigns a cause for David's
first frequenting Saul's court very different from that given in chap. xvi. of the same book.
(26) For he did not think that David came to Saul in consequence of the advice of Saul's servants,
as is narrated in chap. xvi., but that being sent by chance to the camp by his father on a
message to his brothers, he was for the first time remarked by Saul on the occasion of his
victory, over Goliath the Philistine, and was retained at his court.

(27) I suspect the same thing has taken place in chap. xxvi. of the same book, for the historian
there seems to repeat the narrative given in chap. xxiv. according to another man's version.
(28) But I pass over this, and go on to the computation of dates.

(29) In I Kings, chap. vi., it is said that Solomon built the Temple in the
four hundred and eightieth year after the exodus from Egypt; but from the
historians themselves we get a much longer period, for:
                                                                      Years.
Moses governed the people in the desert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Joshua, who lived 110 years, did not, according to Josephus and
    others' opinion rule more than . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 26
Cusban Rishathaim held the people in subjection . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Othniel, son of Kenag, was judge for . . . . . . . . . . . [Endnote 15] 40
Eglon, King of Moab, governed the people . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Ehucl and Shamgar were judges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jachin, King of Canaan, held the people in subjection . . . . . . . . . 20
The people was at peace subsequently for . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 40
It was under subjection to Median . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 7
It obtained freedom under Gideon for . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
It fell under the rule of Abimelech  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Tola, son of Puah, was judge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Jair was judge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 22
The people was in subjection to the Philistines and Ammonites . . . . . 18
Jephthah was judge  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Ibzan, the Bethlehemite, was judge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 7
Elon, the Zabulonite . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Abclon, the Pirathonite . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
The people was again subject to the Philistines . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Samson was judge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [Endnote 16] 20
Eli was judge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
The people again fell into subjection to the Philistines,
    till they were delivered by Samuel .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
David reigned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Solomon reigned before he built the temple  . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 4

(30) All these periods added together make a total of 580 years. (31) But to these must be
added the years during which the Hebrew republic flourished after the death of Joshua, until
it was conquered by Cushan Rishathaim, which I take to be very numerous, for I cannot bring
myself to believe that immediately after the death of Joshua all those who had witnessed his
miracles died simultaneously, nor that their successors at one stroke bid farewell to their
laws, and plunged from the highest virtue into the depth of wickedness and obstinacy.

(32) Nor, lastly, that Cushan Rishathaim subdued them on the instant; each one of these circumstances
requires almost a generation, and there is no doubt that Judges ii:7, 9, 10, comprehends a
great many years which it passes over in silence. (33) We must also add the years during which
Samuel was judge, the number of which is not stated in Scripture, and also the years during
which Saul reigned, which are not clearly shown from his history. (34) It is, indeed, stated
in 1 Sam. xiii:1, that he reigned two years, but the text in that passage is mutilated, and
the records of his reign lead us to suppose a longer period. (35) That the text is mutilated
I suppose no one will doubt who has ever advanced so far as the threshold of the Hebrew language,
for it runs as follows: "Saul was in his -- year, when he began to reign, and he reigned two
years over Israel." (36) Who, I say, does not see that the number of the years of Saul's age
when he began to reign has been omitted? (37) That the record of the reign presupposes a greater
number of years is equally beyond doubt, for in the same book, chap. xxvii:7, it is stated
that David sojourned among the Philistines, to whom he had fled on account of Saul, a year
and four months; thus the rest of the reign must have been comprised in a space of eight months,
which I think no one will credit. (38) Josephus, at the end of the sixth book of his antiquities,
thus corrects the text: Saul reigned eighteen years while Samuel was alive, and two years after
his death. (39) However, all the narrative in chap. Xiii. is in complete disagreement with
what goes before. (40) At the end of chap. vii. it is narrated that the Philistines were so
crushed by the Hebrews that they did not venture, during Samuel's life, to invade the borders
of Israel; but in chap. xiii. we are told that the Hebrews were invaded during the life of
Samuel by the Philistines, and reduced by them to such a state of wretchedness and poverty
that they were deprived not only of weapons with which to defend themselves, but also of the
means of making more. (41) I should be at pains enough if I were to try and harmonize all the
narratives contained in this first book of Samuel so that they should seem to be all written
and arranged by a single historian. (42) But I return to my object. (43) The years, then, during
which Saul reigned must be added to the above computation; and, lastly, I have not counted
the years of the Hebrew anarchy, for I cannot from Scripture gather their number. (44) I cannot,
I say, be certain as to the period occupied by the events related in Judges chap. xvii. on
till the end of the book.

(45) It is thus abundantly evident that we cannot arrive at a true computation of years from
the histories, and, further, that the histories are inconsistent themselves on the subject.
(46) We are compelled to confess that these histories were compiled from various writers without
previous arrangement and examination. (47) Not less discrepancy is found between the dates
given in the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah, and those in the Chronicles of the Kings of
Israel; in the latter, it is stated that Jehoram, the son of Ahab, began to reign in the second
year of the reign of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat (2 Kings i:17), but in the former we read
that Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, began to reign in the fifth year of Jehoram, the son
of Ahab (2 Kings viii:16). (48) Anyone who compares the narratives in Chronicles with the narratives
in the books of Kings, will find many similar discrepancies. (49) These there is no need for
me to examine here, and still less am I called upon to treat of the commentaries of those who
endeavour to harmonize them. (50) The Rabbis evidently let their fancy run wild. (51) Such
commentators as I have, read, dream, invent, and as a last resort, play fast and loose with
the language. (52) For instance, when it is said in 2 Chronicles, that Ahab was forty-two years
old when he began to reign, they pretend that these years are computed from the reign of Omri,
not from the birth of Ahab. (53) If this can be shown to be the real meaning of the writer
of the book of Chronicles, all I can say is, that he did not know how to state a fact. (54)
The commentators make many other assertions of this kind, which if true, would prove that the
ancient Hebrews were ignorant both of their own language, and of the way to relate a plain
narrative. (55) I should in such case recognize no rule or reason in interpreting Scripture,
but it would be permissible to hypothesize to one's heart's content.

(56) If anyone thinks that I am speaking too generally, and without sufficient warrant, I would
ask him to set himself to showing us some fixed plan in these histories which might be followed
without blame by other writers of chronicles, and in his efforts at harmonizing and interpretation,
so strictly to observe and explain the phrases and expressions, the order and the connections,
that we may be able to imitate these also in our writings (17). (57) If he succeeds, I will
at once give him my hand, and he shall be to me as great Apollo; for I confess that after long
endeavours I have been unable to discover anything of the kind. (58) I may add that I set down
nothing here which I have not long reflected upon, and that, though I was imbued from my boyhood
up with the ordinary opinions about the Scriptures, I have been unable to withstand the force
of what I have urged.

(59) However, there is no need to detain the reader with this question, and drive him to attempt
an impossible task; I merely mentioned the fact in order to throw light on my intention.

(60) I now pass on to other points concerning the treatment of these books. (61) For we must
remark, in addition to what has been shown, that these books were not guarded by posterity
with such care that no faults crept in. (62) The ancient scribes draw attention to many doubtful
readings, and some mutilated passages, but not to all that exist: whether the faults are of
sufficient importance to greatly embarrass the reader I will not now discuss. (63) I am inclined
to think that they are of minor moment to those, at any rate, who read the Scriptures with
enlightenment: and I can positively, affirm that I have not noticed any fault or various reading
in doctrinal passages sufficient to render them obscure or doubtful.

(64) There are some people, however, who will not admit that there is any corruption, even
in other passages, but maintain that by some unique exercise of providence God has preserved
from corruption every word in the Bible: they say that the various readings are the symbols
of profoundest mysteries, and that mighty secrets lie hid in the twenty-eight hiatus which
occur, nay, even in the very form of the letters.

(65) Whether they are actuated by folly and anile devotion, or whether by arrogance and malice
so that they alone may be held to possess the secrets of God, I know not: this much I do know,
that I find in their writings nothing which has the air of a Divine secret, but only childish
lucubrations. (66) I have read and known certain Kabbalistic triflers, whose insanity provokes
my unceasing as astonishment. (67) That faults have crept in will, I think, be denied by no
sensible person who reads the passage about Saul, above quoted (1 Sam. xiii:1) and also 2 Sam.
vi:2: "And David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Judah, to bring
up from thence the ark of God."

(68) No one can fail to remark that the name of their destination, viz., Kirjath-jearim [Endnote
18], has been omitted: nor can we deny that 2 Sam. xiii:37, has been tampered with and mutilated.
"And Absalom fled, and went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. (70) I know that
I have remarked other passages of the same kind, but I cannot recall them at the moment.

(71) That the marginal notes which are found continually in the Hebrew Codices are doubtful
readings will, I think, be evident to everyone who has noticed that they often arise from the
great similarity, of some of the Hebrew letters, such for instance, as the similarity between
Kaph and Beth, Jod and Van, Daleth and Reth, &c. (72) For example, the text in 2 Sam. v:24,
runs "in the time when thou hearest," and similarly in Judges xxi:22, "And it shall be when
their fathers or their brothers come unto us often," the marginal version is "come unto us
to complain."

(73) So also many various readings have arisen from the use of the letters named mutes, which
are generally not sounded in pronunciation, and are taken promiscuously, one for the other.
(74) For example, in Levit. xxv:29, it is written, "The house shall be established which is
not in the walled city," but the margin has it, "which is in a walled city."

(75) Though these matters are self-evident, [Endnore 6], it is necessary, to answer the reasonings
of certain Pharisees, by which they endeavour to convince us that the marginal notes serve
to indicate some mystery, and were added or pointed out by the writers of the sacred books.
(76) The first of these reasons, which, in my, opinion, carries little weight, is taken from
the practice of reading the Scriptures aloud.

(77) If, it is urged, these notes were added to show various readings which could not be decided
upon by posterity, why has custom prevailed that the marginal readings should always be retained?
(78) Why has the meaning which is preferred been set down in the margin when it ought to have
been incorporated in the text, and not relegated to a side note?

(79) The second reason is more specious, and is taken from the nature of the case. (80) It
is admitted that faults have crept into the sacred writings by chance and not by design; but
they say that in the five books the word for a girl is, with one exception, written without
the letter "he," contrary to all grammatical rules, whereas in the margin it is written correctly
according to the universal rule of grammar. (81) Can this have happened by mistake? Is it possible
to imagine a clerical error to have been committed every, time the word occurs? (82) Moreover,
it would have been easy, to supply the emendation. (83) Hence, when these readings are not
accidental or corrections of manifest mistakes, it is supposed that they must have been set
down on purpose by the original writers, and have a meaning. (84) However, it is easy to answer
such arguments; as to the question of custom having prevailed in the reading of the marginal
versions, I will not spare much time for its consideration: I know not the promptings of superstition,
and perhaps the practice may have arisen from the idea that both readings were deemed equally
good or tolerable, and therefore, lest either should be neglected, one was appointed to be
written, and the other to be read. (85) They feared to pronounce judgment in so weighty a matter
lest they should mistake the false for the true, and therefore they would give preference to
neither, as they must necessarily have done if they had commanded one only to be both read
and written. (86) This would be especially the case where the marginal readings were not written
down in the sacred books: or the custom may have originated because some things though rightly
written down were desired to be read otherwise according to the marginal version, and therefore
the general rule was made that the marginal version should be followed in reading the Scriptures.
(87) The cause which induced the scribes to expressly prescribe certain passages to be read
in the marginal version, I will now touch on, for not all the marginal notes are various readings,
but some mark expressions which have passed out of common use, obsolete words and terms which
current decency did not allow to be read in a public assembly. (88) The ancient writers, without
any evil intention, employed no courtly paraphrase, but called things by their plain names.
(891) Afterwards, through the spread of evil thoughts and luxury, words which could be used
by the ancients without offence, came to be considered obscene. (90) There was no need for
this cause to change the text of Scripture. (91) Still, as a concession to the popular weakness,
it became the custom to substitute more decent terms for words denoting sexual intercourse,
exereta, &c., and to read them as they were given in the margin.

(92) At any rate, whatever may have been the origin of the practice of reading Scripture according
to the marginal version, it was not that the true interpretation is contained therein. (93)
For besides that, the Rabbins in the Talmud often differ from the Massoretes, and give other
readings which they approve of, as I will shortly show, certain things are found in the margin
which appear less warranted by the uses of the Hebrew language. (94) For example, in 2 Samuel
xiv:22, we read, "In that the king hath fulfilled the request of his servant," a construction
plainly regular, and agreeing with that in chap. xvi. (95) But the margin has it "of thy servant,"
which does not agree with the person of the verb. (96) So, too, chap. xvi:25 of the same book,
we find, "As if one had inquired at the oracle of God," the margin adding "someone" to stand
as a nominative to the verb. (97) But the correction is not apparently warranted, for it is
a common practice, well known to grammarians in the Hebrew language, to use the third person
singular of the active verb impersonally.

(98) The second argument advanced by the Pharisees is easily answered from what has just been
said, namely, that the scribes besides the various readings called attention to obsolete words.
(99) For there is no doubt that in Hebrew as in other languages, changes of use made many words
obsolete and antiquated, and such were found by the later scribes in the sacred books and noted
by them with a view to the books being publicly read according to custom. (100) For this reason
the word nahgar is always found marked because its gender was originally common, and it had
the same meaning as the Latin juvenis (a young person). (101) So also the Hebrew capital was
anciently called Jerusalem, not Jerusalaim. (102) As to the pronouns himself and herself, I
think that the later scribes changed vau into jod (a very frequent change in Hebrew) when they
wished to express the feminine gender, but that the ancients only distinguished the two genders
by a change of vowels. (103) I may also remark that the irregular tenses of certain verbs differ
in the ancient and modern forms, it being formerly considered a mark of elegance to employ
certain letters agreeable to the ear.

(104) In a word, I could easily multiply proofs of this kind if I were not afraid of abusing
the patience of the reader. (105) Perhaps I shall be asked how I became acquainted with the
fact that all these expressions are obsolete. (106) I reply that I have found them in the most
ancient Hebrew writers in the Bible itself, and that they have not been imitated by subsequent
authors, and thus they are recognized as antiquated, though the language in which they occur
is dead. (107) But perhaps someone may press the question why, if it be true, as I say, that
the marginal notes of the Bible generally mark various readings, there are never more than
two readings of a passage, that in the text and that in the margin, instead of three or more;
and further, how the scribes can have hesitated between two readings, one of which is evidently
contrary to grammar, and the other a plain correction.

(108) The answer to these questions also is easy: I will premise that it is almost certain
that there once were more various readings than those now recorded. (119) For instance, one
finds many in the Talmud which the Massoretes have neglected, and are so different one from
the other that even the superstitious editor of the Bomberg Bible confesses that he cannot
harmonize them. (110) "We cannot say anything," he writes, "except what we have said above,
namely, that the Talmud is generally in contradiction to the Massorete." (111) So that we are
nor bound to hold that there never were more than two readings of any passage, yet I am willing
to admit, and indeed I believe that more than two readings are never found: and for the following
reasons:-(112) (I.) The cause of the differences of reading only admits of two, being generally
the similarity of certain letters, so that the question resolved itself into which should be
written Beth, or Kaf, Jod or Vau, Daleth or Reth: cases which are constantly occurring, and
frequently yielding a fairly good meaning whichever alternative be adopted. (113) Sometimes,
too, it is a question whether a syllable be long or short, quantity being determined by the
letters called mutes. (114) Moreover, we never asserted that all the marginal versions, without
exception, marked various readings; on the contrary, we have stated that many were due to motives
of decency or a desire to explain obsolete words. (115) (II.) I am inclined to attribute the
fact that more than two readings are never found to the paucity of exemplars, perhaps not more
than two or three, found by the scribes. (116) In the treatise of the scribes, chap. vi., mention
is made of three only, pretended to have been found in the time of Ezra, in order that the
marginal versions might be attributed to him.

(117) However that may be, if the scribes only had three codices we may easily imagine that
in a given passage two of them would be in accord, for it would be extraordinary if each one
of the three gave a different reading of the same text.

(118) The dearth of copies after the time of Ezra will surprise no one who has read the 1st
chapter of Maccabees, or Josephus's "Antiquities," Bk. 12, chap. 5. (119) Nay, it appears wonderful
considering the fierce and daily persecution, that even these few should have been preserved.
(120) This will, I think, be plain to even a cursory reader of the history of those times.

(121) We have thus discovered the reasons why there are never more than two readings of a passage
in the Bible, but this is a long way from supposing that we may therefore conclude that the
Bible was purposely written incorrectly in such passages in order to signify some mystery.
(122) As to the second argument, that some passages are so faultily written that they are at
plain variance with all grammar, and should have been corrected in the text and not in the
margin, I attach little weight to it, for I am not concerned to say what religious motive the
scribes may have had for acting as they did: possibly they did so from candour, wishing to
transmit the few exemplars of the Bible which they had found exactly in their original state,
marking the differences they discovered in the margin, not as doubtful readings, but as simple
variants. (123) I have myself called them doubtful readings, because it would be generally
impossible to say which of the two versions is preferable.

(124) Lastly, besides these doubtful readings the scribes have (by leaving a hiatus in the
middle of a paragraph) marked several passages as mutilated. (125) The Massoretes have counted
up such instances, and they amount to eight-and-twenty. (126) I do not know whether any mystery
is thought to lurk in the number, at any rate the Pharisees religiously preserve a certain
amount of empty space.

(127) One of such hiatus occurs (to give an instance) in Gen. iv:8, where it is written, "And
Cain said to his brother . . . . and it came to pass while they were in the field, &c.," a
space being left in which we should expect to hear what it was that Cain said.

(128) Similarly there are (besides those points we have noticed) eight-and- twenty hiatus left
by the scribes. (129) Many of these would not be recognized as mutilated if it were not for
the empty space left. But I have said enough on this subject.

CHAPTER X. - AN EXAMINATION OF THE REMAINING BOOKS OF THE OLD TESTAMENT ACCORDING TO THE PRECEDING
METHOD.

(1) I now pass on to the remaining books of the Old Testament. (2) Concerning the two books
of Chronicles I have nothing particular or important to remark, except that they were certainly
written after the time of Ezra, and possibly after the restoration of the Temple by Judas Maccabaeus
[Endnote 19]. (2) For in chap. ix. of the first book we find a reckoning of the families who
were the first to live in Jerusalem, and in verse 17 the names of the porters, of which two
recur in Nehemiah. (3) This shows that the books were certainly compiled after the rebuilding
of the city. (4) As to their actual writer, their authority, utility, and doctrine, I come
to no conclusion. (5) I have always been astonished that they have been included in the Bible
by men who shut out from the canon the books of Wisdom, Tobit, and the others styled apocryphal.
(6) I do not aim at disparaging their authority, but as they are universally received I will
leave them as they are.

(7) The Psalms were collected and divided into five books in the time of the second temple,
for Ps. lxxxviii. was published, according to Philo-Judaeus, while king Jehoiachin was still
a prisoner in Babylon; and Ps. lxxxix. when the same king obtained his liberty: I do not think
Philo would have made the statement unless either it had been the received opinion in his time,
or else had been told him by trustworthy persons. (9) I cannot here pass over in silence the
audacity of the Rabbis who wished to exclude from the sacred canon both the Proverbs and Ecclesiastes,
and to put them both in the Apocrypha. (10) In fact, they would actually have done so, if they
had not lighted on certain passages in which the law of Moses is extolled. (11) It is, indeed,
grievous to think that the settling of the sacred canon lay in the hands of such men; however,
I congratulate them, in this instance, on their suffering us to see these books in question,
though I cannot refrain from doubting whether they have transmitted them in absolute good faith;
but I will not now linger on this point.

(10) I pass on, then, to the prophetic books. (11) An examination of these assures me that
the prophecies therein contained have been compiled from other books, and are not always set
down in the exact order in which they were spoken or written by the prophets, but are only
such as were collected here and there, so that they are but fragmentary.

(12) Isaiah began to prophecy in the reign of Uzziah, as the writer himself testifies in the
first verse. (13) He not only prophesied at that time, but furthermore wrote the history of
that king (see 2 Chron. xxvi:22) in a volume now lost. (13) That which we possess, we have
shown to have been taken from the chronicles of the kings of Judah and Israel.

(14) We may add that the Rabbis assert that this prophet prophesied in the reign of Manasseh,
by whom he was eventually put to death, and, although this seems to be a myth, it yet shows
that they did not think that all Isaiah's prophecies are extant.

(15) The prophecies of Jeremiah, which are related historically are also taken from various
chronicles; for not only are they heaped together confusedly, without any account being taken
of dates, but also the same story is told in them differently in different passages. (16) For
instance, in chap. xxi. we are told that the cause of Jeremiah's arrest was that he had prophesied
the destruction of the city to Zedekiah who consulted him. (17) This narrative suddenly passes,
in chap xxii., to the prophet's remonstrances to Jehoiakim (Zedekiah's predecessor), and the
prediction he made of that king's captivity; then, in chap. xxv., come the revelations granted
to the prophet previously, that is in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, and, further on still,
the revelations received in the first year of the same reign. (18) The continuator of Jeremiah
goes on heaping prophecy upon prophecy without any regard to dates, until at last, in chap.
xxxviii. (as if the intervening chapters had been a parenthesis), he takes up the thread dropped
in chap. xxi.

(19) In fact, the conjunction with which chap. xxxviii. begins, refers to the 8th, 9th, and
10th verses of chap. xxi. Jeremiah's last arrest is then very differently described, and a
totally separate cause is given for his daily retention in the court of the prison.

(20) We may thus clearly see that these portions of the book have been compiled from various
sources, and are only from this point of view comprehensible. (21) The prophecies contained
in the remaining chapters, where Jeremiah speaks in the first person, seem to be taken from
a book written by Baruch, at Jeremiah's dictation. (22) These, however, only comprise (as appears
from chap. xxxvi:2) the prophecies revealed to the prophet from the time of Josiah to the fourth
year of Jehoiakim, at which period the book begins. (23) The contents of chap. xlv:2, on to
chap. li:59, seem taken from the same volume.

(24) That the book of Ezekiel is only a fragment, is clearly indicated by the first verse.
(25) For anyone may see that the conjunction with which it begins, refers to something already
said, and connects what follows therewith. (26) However, not only this conjunction, but the
whole text of the discourse implies other writings. (28) Furthermore, Josephus, 11 Antiq."
x:9, says that Ezekiel prophesied that Zedekiah should not see Babylon, whereas the book we
now have not only contains no such statement, but contrariwise asserts in chap. xvii. that
he should be taken to Babylon as a captive, [Endnote 20].

(29) Of Hosea I cannot positively state that he wrote more than is now extant in the book bearing
his name, but I am astonished at the smallness of the quantity, we possess, for the sacred
writer asserts that the prophet prophesied for more than eighty years.

(30) We may assert, speaking generally, that the compiler of the prophetic books neither collected
all the prophets, nor all the writings of those we have; for of the prophets who are said to
have prophesied in the reign of Manasseh and of whom general mention is made in 2 Chron. xxxiii:10,
18, we have, evidently, no prophecies extant; neither have we all the prophecies of the twelve
who give their names to books. (31) Of Jonah we have only, the prophecy concerning the Ninevites,
though he also prophesied to the children of Israel, as we learn in 2 Kings xiv:25.

(32) The book and the personality of Job have caused much controversy. (33) Some think that
the book is the work of Moses, and the whole narrative merely allegorical. (34) Such is the
opinion of the Rabbins recorded in the Talmud, and they are supported by, Maimonides in his
"More Nebuchim." (35) Others believe it to be a true history, and some suppose that Job lived
in the time of Jacob, and was married to his daughter Dinah. (36) Aben Ezra, however, as I
have already stated, affirms, in his commentaries, that the work is a translation into Hebrew
from some other language: I could wish that he could advance more cogent arguments than he
does, for we might then conclude that the Gentiles also had sacred books. (37) I myself leave
the matter undecided, but I conjecture Job to have been a Gentile, and a man of very stable
character, who at first prospered, then was assailed with terrible calamities, and finally,
was restored to great happiness. (38) (He is thus named, among others, by Ezekiel, xiv:12.)
(39) I take it that the constancy of his mind amid the vicissitudes of his fortune occasioned
many men to dispute about God's providence, or at least caused the writer of the book in question
to compose his dialogues; for the contents, and also the style, seem to emanate far less from
a man wretchedly ill and lying among ashes, than from one reflecting at ease in his study.
(40) I should also be inclined to agree with Aben Ezra that the book is a translation, for
its poetry seems akin to that of the Gentiles; thus the Father of Gods summons a council, and
Momus, here called Satan, criticizes the Divine decrees with the utmost freedom. (41) But these
are mere conjectures without any solid foundation.

(42) I pass on to the book of Daniel, which, from chap. viii. onwards, undoubtedly contains
the writing of Daniel himself. (43) Whence the first seven chapters are derived I cannot say;
we may, however, conjecture that, as they were first written in Chaldean, they are taken from
Chaldean chronicles. (44) If this could be proved, it would form a very striking proof of the
fact that the sacredness of Scripture depends on our understanding of the doctrines therein
signified, and not on the words, the language, and the phrases in which these doctrines are
conveyed to us; and it would further show us that books which teach and speak of whatever is
highest and best are equally sacred, whatever be the tongue in which they are written, or the
nation to which they belong.

(45) We can, however, in this case only remark that the chapters in question were written in
Chaldee, and yet are as sacred as the rest of the Bible.

(46) The first book of Ezra is so intimately connected with the book of Daniel that both are
plainly recognizable as the work of the same author, writing of Jewish history from the time
of the first captivity onwards. (47) I have no hesitation in joining to this the book of Esther,
for the conjunction with which it begins can refer to nothing else. (48) It cannot be the same
work as that written by Mordecai, for, in chap. ix:20-22, another person relates that Mordecai
wrote letters, and tells us their contents; further, that Queen Esther confirmed the days of
Purim in their times appointed, and that the decree was written in the book that is (by a Hebraism),
in a book known to all then living, which, as Aben Ezra and the rest confess, has now perished.
(49) Lastly, for the rest of the acts of Mordecai, the historian refers us to the chronicles
of the kings of Persia. (50) Thus there is no doubt that this book was written by the same
person as he who recounted the history of Daniel and Ezra, and who wrote Nehemiah, [Endnote
21], sometimes called the second book of Ezra. (51) We may, then, affirm that all these books
are from one hand; but we have no clue whatever to the personality of the author. (52) However,
in order to determine whence he, whoever he was, had gained a knowledge of the histories which
he had, perchance, in great measure himself written, we may remark that the governors or chiefs
of the Jews, after the restoration of the Temple, kept scribes or historiographers, who wrote
annals or chronicles of them. (53) The chronicles of the kings are often quoted in the books
of Kings, but the chronicles of the chiefs and priests are quoted for the first time in Nehemiah
xii:23, and again in 1 Macc. xvi:24. (54) This is undoubtedly the book referred to as containing
the decree of Esther and the acts of Mordecai; and which, as we said with Aben Ezra, is now
lost. (55) From it were taken the whole contents of these four books, for no other authority
is quoted by their writer, or is known to us.

(56) That these books were not written by either Ezra or Nehemiah is plain from Nehemiah xii:9,
where the descendants of the high priest, Joshua are traced down to Jaddua, the sixth high
priest, who went to meet Alexander the Great, when the Persian empire was almost subdued (Josephus,
"Ant." ii. 108), or who, according to Philo-Judaeus, was the sixth and last high priest under
the Persians. (58) Cyrus was the first who granted the Jews permission to rebuild their Temple:
the period between his time and Darius, fourteenth and last king of Persia, extends over 230
years. (59) I have, therefore, no doubt that these books were written after Judas Maccabaeus
had restored the worship in the Temple, for at that time false books of Daniel, Ezra, and Esther
were published by evil-disposed persons, who were almost certainly Sadducees, for the writings
were never recognized by the Pharisees, so far as I am aware; and, although certain myths in
the fourth book of Ezra are repeated in the Talmud, they must not be set down to the Pharisees,
for all but the most ignorant admit that they have been added by some trifler: in fact, I think,
someone must have made such additions with a view to casting ridicule on all the traditions
of the sect.

(60) Perhaps these four books were written out and published at the time I have mentioned with
a view to showing the people that the prophecies of Daniel had been fulfilled, and thus kindling
their piety, and awakening a hope of future deliverance in the midst of their misfortunes.
(61) In spite of their recent origin, the books before us contain many errors, due, I suppose,
to the haste with which they were written. (62) Marginal readings, such as I have mentioned
in the last chapter, are found here as elsewhere, and in even greater abundance; there are,
moreover, certain passages which can only be accounted for by supposing some such cause as hurry.

(63) However, before calling attention to the marginal readings, I will remark that, if the
Pharisees are right in supposing them to have been ancient, and the work of the original scribes,
we must perforce admit that these scribes (if there were more than one) set them down because
they found that the text from which they were copying was inaccurate, and did yet not venture
to alter what was written by their predecessors and superiors. (64) I need not again go into
the subject at length, and will, therefore, proceed to mention some discrepancies not noticed
in the margin.

(65) I. Some error has crept into the text of the second chapter of Ezra, for in verse 64 we
are told that the total of all those mentioned in the rest of the chapter amounts to 42,360;
but, when we come to add up the several items we get as result only 29,818. (66) There must,
therefore, be an error, either in the total, or in the details. (67) The total is probably
correct, for it would most likely be well known to all as a noteworthy thing; but with the
details, the case would be different. (68) If, then, any error had crept into the total, it
would at once have been remarked, and easily corrected. (69) This view is confirmed by Nehemiah
vii., where this chapter of Ezra is mentioned, and a total is given in plain correspondence
thereto; but the details are altogether different - some are larger, and some less, than those
in Ezra, and altogether they amount to 31,089. (70) We may, therefore, conclude that both in
Ezra and in Nehemiah the details are erroneously given. (71) The commentators who attempt to
harmonize these evident contradictions draw on their imagination, each to the best of his ability;
and while professing adoration for each letter and word of Scripture, only succeed in holding
up the sacred writers to ridicule, as though they knew not how to write or relate a plain narrative.
(72) Such persons effect nothing but to render the clearness of Scripture obscure. (73) If
the Bible could everywhere be interpreted after their fashion, there would be no such thing
as a rational statement of which the meaning could be relied on. (74) However, there is no
need to dwell on the subject; only I am convinced that if any historian were to attempt to
imitate the proceedings freely attributed to the writers of the Bible, the commentators would
cover him with contempt. (75) If it be blasphemy to assert that there are any errors in Scripture,
what name shall we apply to those who foist into it their own fancies, who degrade the sacred
writers till they seem to write confused nonsense, and who deny the plainest and most evident
meanings? (76) What in the whole Bible can be plainer than the fact that Ezra and his companions,
in the second chapter of the book attributed to him, have given in detail the reckoning of
all the Hebrews who set out with them for Jerusalem? (77) This is proved by the reckoning being
given, not only of those who told their lineage, but also of those who were unable to do so.
(78) Is it not equally clear from Nehemiah vii:5, that the writer merely there copies the list
given in Ezra? (79) Those, therefore, who explain these pas sages otherwise, deny the plain
meaning of Scripture - nay, they deny Scripture itself. (80) They think it pious to reconcile
one passage of Scripture with another - a pretty piety, forsooth, which accommodates the clear
passages to the obscure, the correct to the faulty, the sound to the corrupt.

(81) Far be it from me to call such commentators blasphemers, if their motives be pure: for
to err is human. But I return to my subject.

(82) Besides these errors in numerical details, there are others in the genealogies, in the
history, and, I fear also in the prophecies. (83) The prophecy of Jeremiah (chap. xxii.), concerning
Jechoniah, evidently does not agree with his history, as given in I Chronicles iii:17-19, and
especially with the last words of the chapter, nor do I see how the prophecy, "thou shalt die
in peace," can be applied to Zedekiah, whose eyes were dug out after his sons had been slain
before him. (84) If prophecies are to be interpreted by their issue, we must make a change
of name, and read Jechoniah for Zedekiah, and vice versa (85) This, however, would be too paradoxical
a proceeding; so I prefer to leave the matter unexplained, especially as the error, if error
there be, must be set down to the historian, and not to any fault in the authorities.

(86) Other difficulties I will not touch upon, as I should only weary the reader, and, moreover,
be repeating the remarks of other writers. (87) For R. Selomo, in face of the manifest contradiction
in the above-mentioned genealogies, is compelled to break forth into these words (see his commentary
on 1 Chron. viii.): "Ezra (whom he supposes to be the author of the book of Chronicles) gives
different names and a different genealogy to the sons of Benjamin from those which we find
in Genesis, and describes most of the Levites differently from Joshua, because he found original
discrepancies." (88) And, again, a little later: "The genealogy of Gibeon and others is described
twice in different ways, from different tables of each genealogy, and in writing them down
Ezra adopted the version given in the majority of the texts, and when the authority was equal
he gave both." (89) Thus granting that these books were compiled from sources originally incorrect
and uncertain.

(90) In fact the commentators, in seeking to harmonize difficulties, generally do no more than
indicate their causes: for I suppose no sane person supposes that the sacred historians deliberately
wrote with the object of appearing to contradict themselves freely. (91) Perhaps I shall be
told that I am overthrowing the authority of Scripture, for that, according to me, anyone may
suspect it of error in any passage; but, on the contrary, I have shown that my object has been
to prevent the clear and uncorrupted passages being accommodated to and corrupted by the faulty
ones; neither does the fact that some passages are corrupt warrant us in suspecting all. (92)
No book ever was completely free from faults, yet I would ask, who suspects all books to be
everywhere faulty? (93) Surely no one, especially when the phraseology is clear and the intention
of the author plain.

(94) I have now finished the task I set myself with respect to the books of the Old Testament.
(95) We may easily conclude from what has been said, that before the time of the Maccabees
there was no canon of sacred books, [Endnote 23], but that those which we now possess were
selected from a multitude of others at the period of the restoration of the Temple by the Pharisees
(who also instituted the set form of prayers), who are alone responsible for their acceptance.
(96) Those, therefore, who would demonstrate the authority of Holy Scripture, are bound to
show the authority of each separate book; it is not enough to prove the Divine origin of a
single book in order to infer the Divine origin of the rest. (97) In that case we should have
to assume that the council of Pharisees was, in its choice of books, infallible, and this could
never be proved. (98) I am led to assert that the Pharisees alone selected the books of the
Old Testament, and inserted them in the canon, from the fact that in Daniel ii. is proclaimed
the doctrine of the Resurrection, which the Sadducees denied; and, furthermore, the Pharisees
plainly assert in the Talmud that they so selected them. (99) For in the treatise of Sabbathus,
chapter ii., folio 30, page 2, it is written: R. Jehuda, surnamed Rabbi, reports that the experts
wished to conceal the book of Ecclesiastes because they found therein words opposed to the
law (that is, to the book of the law of Moses). (100) Why did they not hide it? (101) "Because
it begins in accordance with the law, and ends according to the law;" and a little further
on we read: "They sought also to conceal the book of Proverbs." (102) And in the first chapter
of the same treatise, fol. 13, page 2: "Verily, name one man for good, even he who was called
Neghunja, the son of Hezekiah: for, save for him, the book of Ezekiel would been concealed,
because it agreed not with the words of the law."

(103) It is thus abundantly clear that men expert in the law summoned a council to decide which
books should be received into the canon, and which excluded. (104) If any man, therefore, wishes
to be certified as to the authority of all the books, let him call a fresh council, and ask
every member his reasons.

(105) The time has now come for examining in the same manner the books in the New Testament;
but as I learn that the task has been already performed by men highly skilled in science and
languages, and as I do not myself possess a knowledge of Greek sufficiently exact for the task;
lastly, as we have lost the originals of those books which were written in Hebrew, I prefer
to decline the undertaking. (106) However, I will touch on those points which have most bearing
on my subject in the following chapter.

End of Part 2.

AUTHOR'S ENDNOTES TO THE THEOLOGICO-POLITICAL TREATISE Part 2 - Chapters VI to X

CHAPTER VI.

Endnote 6. (1) We doubt of the existence of God, and consequently of all else, so long as we
have no clear and distinct idea of God, but only a confused one. (2) For as he who knows not
rightly the nature of a triangle, knows not that its three angles are equal to two right angles,
so he who conceives the Divine nature confusedly, does not see that it pertains to the nature
of God to exist. (3) Now, to conceive the nature of God clearly and distinctly, it is necessary
to pay attention to a certain number of very simple notions, called general notions, and by
their help to associate the conceptions which we form of the attributes of the Divine nature.
(4) It then, for the first time, becomes clear to us, that God exists necessarily, that He
is omnipresent, and that all our conceptions involve in themselves the nature of God and are
conceived through it. (5) Lastly, we see that all our adequate ideas are true. (6) Compare
on this point the prolegomena to book, "Principles of Descartes's philosophy set forth geometrically."

CHAPTER VII.

Endnote 7. (2) I mean impossible for us who have not the habitual use of the language, and
have lost the precise meaning of its phraseology.

Endnote 8. (1) "Not in things whereof the understanding can gain a clear and distinct idea,
and which are conceivable through themselves." (2) By things conceivable I mean not only those
which are rigidly proved, but also those whereof we are morally certain, and are wont to hear
without wonder, though they are incapable of proof. (3) Everyone can see the truth of Euclid's
propositions before they are proved. (4) So also the histories of things both future and past
which do not surpass human credence, laws, institutions, manners, I call conceivable and clear,
though they cannot be proved mathematically. (5) But hieroglyphics and histories which seem
to pass the bounds of belief I call inconceivable; yet even among these last there are many
which our method enables us to investigate, and to discover the meaning of their narrator.

CHAPTER VIII.

Endnote 9. (1) "Mount Moriah is called the mount of God." (2) That is by the historian, not
by Abraham, for he says that the place now called "In the mount of the Lord it shall be revealed,"
was called by Abraham, "the Lord shall provide."

Endnote 10. (1) "Before that territory [Idumoea] was conquered by David." (2) From this time
to the reign of Jehoram when they again separated from the Jewish kingdom (2 Kings viii:20),
the Idumaeans had no king, princes appointed by the Jews supplied the place of kings (1 Kings
xxii:48), in fact the prince of Idumaea is called a king (2 Kings iii:9).

(3) It may be doubted whether the last of the Idumaean kings had begun to reign before the
accession of Saul, or whether Scripture in this chapter of Genesis wished to enumerate only
such kings as were independent. (4) It is evidently mere trifling to wish to enrol among Hebrew
kings the name of Moses, who set up a dominion entirely different from a monarchy.

CHAPTER IX.

Endnote 11. (1) "With few exceptions." (2) One of these exceptions is found in 2 Kings xviii:20,
where we read, "Thou sayest (but they are but vain words)," the second person being used. (3)
In Isaiah xxxvi:5, we read "I say (but they are but vain words) I have counsel and strength
for war," and in the twenty-second verse of the chapter in Kings it is written, "But if ye
say," the plural number being used, whereas Isaiah gives the singular. (4) The text in Isaiah
does not contain the words found in 2 Kings xxxii:32. (5) Thus there are several cases of various
readings where it is impossible to distinguish the best.

Endnote 12. (1) "The expressions in the two passages are so varied." (2) For instance we read
in 2 Sam. vii:6, "But I have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle." (3) Whereas in 1 Chron.
xvii:5, "but have gone from tent to tent and from one tabernacle to another." (4) In 2 Sam.
vii:10, we read, "to afflict them," whereas in 1 Chron. vii:9, we find a different expression.
(5) I could point out other differences still greater, but a single reading of the chapters
in question will suffice to make them manifest to all who are neither blind nor devoid of sense.

Endnote 13. (1) "This time cannot refer to what immediately precedes." (2) It is plain from
the context that this passage must allude to the time when Joseph was sold by his brethren.
(3) But this is not all. (4) We may draw the same conclusion from the age of Judah, who was
than twenty-two years old at most, taking as basis of calculation his own history just narrated.
(5) It follows, indeed, from the last verse of Gen. xxx., that Judah was born in the tenth
of the years of Jacob's servitude to Laban, and Joseph in the fourteenth. (6) Now, as we know
that Joseph was seventeen years old when sold by his brethren, Judah was then not more than
twenty-one. (7) Hence, those writers who assert that Judah's long absence from his father's
house took place before Joseph was sold, only seek to delude themselves and to call in question
the Scriptural authority which they are anxious to protect.

Endnote 14. (1) "Dinah was scarcely seven years old when she was violated by Schechem." (2)
The opinion held by some that Jacob wandered about eight or ten years between Mesopotamia and
Bethel, savours of the ridiculous; if respect for Aben Ezra, allows me to say so. (3) For it
is clear that Jacob had two reasons for haste: first, the desire to see his old parents; secondly,
and chiefly to perform, the vow made when he fled from his brother (Gen. xxviii:10 and xxxi:13,
and xxxv:1). (4) We read (Gen. xxxi:3), that God had commanded him to fulfill his vow, and
promised him help for returning to his country. (5) If these considerations seem conjectures
rather than reasons, I will waive the point and admit that Jacob, more unfortunate than Ulysses,
spent eight or ten years or even longer, in this short journey. (6) At any rate it cannot be
denied that Benjamin was born in the last year of this wandering, that is by the reckoning
of the objectors, when Joseph was sixteen or seventeen years old, for Jacob left Laban seven
years after Joseph's birth. (7) Now from the seventeenth year of Joseph's age till the patriarch
went into Egypt, not more than twenty-two years elapsed, as we have shown in this chapter.
(8) Consequently Benjamin, at the time of the journey to Egypt, was twenty-three or twenty-
four at the most. (9) He would therefore have been a grandfather in the flower of his age (Gen.
xlvi:21, cf. Numb. xxvi:38, 40, and 1 Chron. viii;1), for it is certain that Bela, Benjamin's
eldest son, had at that time, two sons, Addai and Naa-man. (10) This is just as absurd as the
statement that Dinah was violated at the age of seven, not to mention other impossibilities
which would result from the truth of the narrative. (11) Thus we see that unskillful endeavours
to solve difficulties, only raise fresh ones, and make confusion worse confounded.

Endnote 15. (1) "Othniel, son of Kenag, was judge for forty years." (2) Rabbi Levi Ben Gerson
and others believe that these forty years which the Bible says were passed in freedom, should
be counted from the death of Joshua, and consequently include the eight years during which
the people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following eighteen years must be added
on to the eighty years of Ehud's and Shamgar's judgeships. (3) In this case it would be necessary
to reckon the other years of subjection among those said by the Bible to have been passed in
freedom. (4) But the Bible expressly notes the number of years of subjection, and the number
of years of freedom, and further declares (Judges ii:18) that the Hebrew state was prosperous
during the whole time of the judges. (5) Therefore it is evident that Levi Ben Gerson (certainly
a very learned man), and those who follow him, correct rather than interpret the Scriptures.

(6) The same fault is committed by those who assert, that Scripture, by this general calculation
of years, only intended to mark the period of the regular administration of the Hebrew state,
leaving out the years of anarchy and subjection as periods of misfortune and interregnum. (7)
Scripture certainly passes over in silence periods of anarchy, but does not, as they dream,
refuse to reckon them or wipe them out of the country's annals. (8) It is clear that Ezra,
in 1 Kings vi., wished to reckon absolutely all the years since the flight from Egypt. (9)
This is so plain, that no one versed in the Scriptures can doubt it. (10) For, without going
back to the precise words of the text, we may see that the genealogy of David given at the
end of the book of Ruth, and I Chron. ii., scarcely accounts for so great a number of years.
(11) For Nahshon, who was prince of the tribe of Judah (Numb. vii;11), two years after the
Exodus, died in the desert, and his son Salmon passed the Jordan with Joshua. (12) Now this
Salmon, according to the genealogy, was David's great-grandfather. (13) Deducting, then, from
the total of 480 years, four years for Solomon's reign, seventy for David's life, and forty
for the time passed in the desert, we find that David was born 366 years after the passage
of the Jordan. (14) Hence we must believe that David's father, grandfather, great-grandfather,
and great- great-grandfather begat children when they were ninety years old.

Endnote 16. (1) "Samson was judge for twenty years." (2) Samson was born after the Hebrews
had fallen under the dominion of the Philistines.

Endnote 17. (1) Otherwise, they rather correct than explain Scripture.

Endnote 18. (1) "Kirjath-jearim." Kirjath-jearim is also called Baale of Judah. (2) Hence Kimchi
and others think that the words Baale Judah, which I have translated "the people of Judah,"
are the name of a town. (3) But this is not so, for the word Baale is in the plural. (4) Moreover,
comparing this text in Samuel with I Chron. Xiii:5, we find that David did not rise up and
go forth out of Baale, but that he went thither. (5) If the author of the book of Samuel had
meant to name the place whence David took the ark, he would, if he spoke Hebrew correctly,
have said, "David rose up, and set forth from Baale Judah, and took the ark from thence."

CHAPTER X.

Endnote 19. (1) "After the restoration of the Temple by Judas Maccaboeus." (2) This conjecture,
if such it be, is founded on the genealogy of King Jeconiah, given in 1 Chron. iii., which
finishes at the sons of Elioenai, the thirteenth in direct descent from him: whereon we must
observe that Jeconiah, before his captivity, had no children; but it is probable that he had
two while he was in prison, if we may draw any inference from the names he gave them. (3) As
to his grandchildren, it is evident that they were born after his deliverance, if the names
be any guide, for his grandson, Pedaiah (a name meaning God hath delivered me), who, according
to this chapter, was the father of Zerubbabel, was born in the thirty-seventh or thirty-eighth
year of Jeconiah's life, that is thirty-three years before the restoration of liberty to the
Jews by Cyrus. (4) Therefore Zerubbabel, to whom Cyrus gave the principality of Judaea, was
thirteen or fourteen years old. (5) But we need not carry the inquiry so far: we need only
read attentively the chapter of 1 Chron., already quoted, where (v. 17, sqq.) mention is made
of all the posterity of Jeconiah, and compare it with the Septuagint version to see clearly
that these books were not published, till after Maccabaeus had restored the Temple, the sceptre
no longer belonging to the house of Jeconiah.

Endnote 20. (1) "Zedekiah should be taken to Babylon." (2) No one could then have suspected
that the prophecy of Ezekiel contradicted that of Jeremiah, but the suspicion occurs to everyone
who reads the narrative of Josephus. (3) The event proved that both prophets were in the right.

Endnote 21. (1) "And who wrote Nehemiah." (2) That the greater part of the book of Nehemiah
was taken from the work composed by the prophet Nehemiah himself, follows from the testimony
of its author. (See chap. i.). (3) But it is obvious that the whole of the passage contained
between chap. viii. and chap. xii. verse 26, together with the two last verses of chap. xii.,
which form a sort of parenthesis to Nehemiah's words, were added by the historian himself,
who outlived Nehemiah.

Endnote 22. (1) "I suppose no one thinks" that Ezra was the uncle of the first high priest,
named Joshua (see Ezra vii., and 1 Chron. vi:14), and went to Jerusalem from Babylon with Zerubbabel
(see Nehemiah xii:1). (2) But it appears that when he saw, that the Jews were in a state of
anarchy, he returned to Babylon, as also did others (Nehem. i;2), and remained there till the
reign of Artaxerxes, when his requests were granted and he went a second time to Jerusalem.
(3) Nehemiah also went to Jerusalem with Zerubbabel in the time of Cyrus (Ezra ii:2 and 63,
cf. x:9, and Nehemiah x:1). (4) The version given of the Hebrew word, translated "ambassador,"
is not supported by any authority, while it is certain that fresh names were given to those
Jews who frequented the court. (5) Thus Daniel was named Balteshazzar, and Zerubbabel Sheshbazzar
(Dan. i:7). (6) Nehemiah was called Atirsata, while in virtue of his office he was styled governor,
or president. (Nehem. v. 24, xii:26.)

Endnote 23. (1) "Before the time of the Maccabees there was no canon of sacred books." (2)
The synagogue styled "the great" did not begin before the subjugation of Asia by the Macedonians.
(3) The contention of Maimonides, Rabbi Abraham, Ben-David, and others, that the presidents
of this synagogue were Ezra, Daniel, Nehemiah, Haggai, Zechariah, &c., is a pure fiction, resting
only on rabbinical tradition. (4) Indeed they assert that the dominion of the Persians only
lasted thirty-four years, and this is their chief reason for maintaining that the decrees of
the "great synagogue," or synod (rejected by the Sadducees, but accepted by the Pharisees)
were ratified by the prophets, who received them from former prophets, and so in direct succession
from Moses, who received them from God Himself. (5) Such is the doctrine which the Pharisees
maintain with their wonted obstinacy. (6) Enlightened persons, however, who know the reasons
for the convoking of councils, or synods, and are no strangers to the differences between Pharisees
and Sadducees, can easily divine the causes which led to the assembling of this great synagogue.
(7) It is very certain that no prophet was there present, and that the decrees of the Pharisees,
which they style their traditions, derive all their authority from it.

End of Endnotes to Part II. -  Chapters VI to X.

