DECEMBER, 1897.  NO. 6
         ================================

THE ORNITHOLOGICAL CONGRESS.

We had the pleasure of attending the Fifteenth Congress of the American Ornithologists' Union,
which met and held its three days annual session in the American Museum of Natural History,
New York City, November 9-11, 1897. Dr. C. Hart Merriam, of the Department of Agriculture,
Washington D.C., presided, and there were present about one hundred and fifty of the members,
resident in nearly all the states of the Union.

The first paper read was one prepared by J. C. Merrill, entitled "In Memoriam: Charles Emil
Bendire." The character, accomplishments, and achievements of the deceased, whose valuable
work in biographizing American birds is so well known to those interested in ornithology, were
referred to in so appropriate a manner that the paper, though not elaborate as it is to be
hoped it may ultimately be made, will no doubt be published for general circulation. Major
Bendire's services to American ornithology are of indisputable value, and his untimely death
eclipsed to some extent, possibly wholly, the conclusion of a series of bird biographies which,
so far as they had appeared, were deemed to be adequate, if not perfect.

Mr. Frank M. Chapman, the well known authority on birds, and whose recent books are valuable
additions to our literature, had, it may be presumed, a paper to read on the "Experiences of
an Ornithologist in Mexico," though he did not read it. He made, on the contrary, what seemed
to be an extemporaneous talk, exceedingly entertaining and sufficiently instructive to warrant
a permanent place for it in the Auk, of which he is associate editor. We had the pleasure of
examining the advance sheets of a new book from his pen, elaborately illustrated in color,
and shortly to be published. Mr. Chapman is a comparatively young man, an enthusiastic student
and observer, and destined to be recognized as one of our most scientific thinkers, as many
of his published pamphlets already indicate. Our limited space precludes even a reference to
them now. His remarks were made the more attractive by the beautiful stuffed specimens with
which he illustrated them.

Prof. Elliott Coues, in an address, "Auduboniana, and Other Matters of Present Interest," engaged
the delighted attention of the Congress on the morning of the second day's session. His audience
was large. In a biographical sketch of Audubon the Man, interspersed with anecdote, he said
so many interesting things that we regret we omitted to make any notes that would enable us
to indicate at least something of his characterization. No doubt just what he said will appear
in an appropriate place. Audubon's portfolio, in which his precious manuscripts and drawings
were so long religiously kept, which he had carried with him to London to exhibit to possible
publishers, a book so large that two men were required to carry it, though the great naturalist
had used it as an indispensable and convenient companion for so many years, was slowly and
we thought reverently divested by Dr. Coues of its wrappings and held up to the surprised and
grateful gaze of the spectators. It was dramatic. Dr. Coues is an actor. And then came the
comedy. He could not resist the inclination to talk a little--not disparagingly, but truthfully,
reading a letter never before published, of Swainson to Audubon declining to associate his
name with that of Audubon "under the circumstances." All of which, we apprehend, will duly
find a place on the shelves of public libraries.

We would ourself like to say something of Audubon as a man. To us his life and character have
a special charm. His was a beautiful youth, like that of Goethe. His love of nature, for which
he was willing to make, and did make, sacrifices, will always be inspiring to the youth of
noble and gentle proclivities; his personal beauty, his humanity, his love-life, his domestic
virtues, enthrall the ingenuous mind; and his appreciation--shown in his beautiful compositions--of
the valleys of the great river, La Belle Rivière, through which its waters, shadowed by the
magnificent forests of Ohio and Kentucky, wandered--all of these things have from youth up
shed a sweet fragrance over his memory and added greatly to our admiration of and appreciation
for the man.

So many subjects came before the Congress that we cannot hope to do more than mention the titles
of a few of them. Mr. Sylvester D. Judd discussed the question of "Protective Adaptations of
insects from an Ornithological Point of View;" Mr. William C. Rives talked of "Summer Birds
of the West Virginia Spruce Belt;" Mr. John N. Clark read a paper entitled "Ten Days among
the Birds of Northern New Hampshire;" Harry C. Oberholser talked extemporaneously of "Liberian
Birds," and in a most entertaining and instructive manner, every word he said being worthy
of large print and liberal embellishment; Mr. J. A. Allen, editor of The Auk, said a great
deal that was new and instructive about the "Origin of Bird Migration;" Mr. O. Widmann read
an interesting paper on "The Great Roosts on Gabberet Island, opposite North St. Louis;" J.
Harris Reed presented a paper on "The Terns of Gull Island, New York;" A. W. Anthony read of
"The Petrels of Southern California," and Mr. George H. Mackay talked interestingly of "The
Terns of Penikese Island, Mass."

There were other papers of interest and value. "A Naturalist's Expedition to East Africa,"
by D. G. Elliot, was, however, the pièce de résistance of the Congress. The lecture was delivered
in the lecture hall of the Museum, on Wednesday at 8 p. m. It was illustrated by stereopticon
views, and in the most remarkable manner. The pictures were thrown upon an immense canvas,
were marvellously realistic, and were so much admired by the great audience, which overflowed
the large lecture hall, that the word demonstrative does not describe their enthusiasm. But
the lecture! Description, experience, suffering, adventure, courage, torrid heat, wild beasts,
poisonous insects, venomous serpents, half-civilized peoples, thirst,--almost enough of torture
to justify the use of Coleridge's Ancient Mariner in illustration,--and yet a perpetual, quiet,
rollicking, jubilant humor, all-pervading, and, at the close, on the lecturer's return once
more to the beginning of civilization, the eloquent picture of the Cross, "full high advanced,"
all combined, made this lecture, to us, one of the very few platform addresses entirely worthy
of the significance of unfading portraiture.

                                                  --C. C. MARBLE.

THE MOUNTAIN BLUEBIRD.

In an early number of BIRDS we presented a picture of the common Bluebird, which has been much
admired. The mountain Bluebird, whose beauty is thought to excel that of his cousin, is probably
known to few of our readers who live east of the Rocky Mountain region, though he is a common
winter sojourner in the western part of Kansas, beginning to arrive there the last of September,
and leaving in March and April. The habits of these birds of the central regions are very similar
to those of the eastern, but more wary and silent. Even their love song is said to be less
loud and musical. It is a rather feeble, plaintive, monotonous warble, and their chirp and
twittering notes are weak. They subsist upon the cedar berries, seeds of plants, grasshoppers,
beetles, and the like, which they pick up largely upon the ground, and occasionally scratch
for among the leaves. During the fall and winter they visit the plains and valleys, and are
usually met with in small flocks, until the mating season.

Nests of the Mountain Bluebird have been found in New Mexico and Colorado, from the foothills
to near timber line, usually in deserted Woodpecker holes, natural cavities in trees, fissures
in the sides of steep rocky cliffs, and, in the settlements, in suitable locations about and
in the adobe buildings. In settled portions of the west it nests in the cornice of buildings,
under the eaves of porches, in the nooks and corners of barns and outhouses, and in boxes provided
for its occupation. Prof. Ridgway found the Rocky Mountain Bluebird nesting in Virginia City,
Nevada, in June. The nests were composed almost entirely of dry grass. In some sections, however,
the inner bark of the cedar enters largely into their composition. The eggs are usually five,
of a pale greenish-blue.

The females of this species are distinguished by a greener blue color and longer wings, and
this bird is often called the Arctic Bluebird. It is emphatically a bird of the mountains,
its visits to the lower portions of the country being mainly during winter.

THE ENGLISH SPARROW.

"Oh, it's just a common Sparrow," I hear Bobbie say to his mamma, "why, I see lots of them
on the street every day."

Of course you do, but for all that you know very little about me I guess. Some people call
me "Hoodlum," and "Pest," and even "Rat of the Air." I hope you don't. It is only the folks
who don't like me that call me ugly names.

Why don't they like me?

Well, in the first place the city people, who like fine feathers, you know, say I am not pretty;
then the farmers, who are not grateful for the insects I eat, say I devour the young buds and
vines as well as the ripened grain. Then the folks who like birds with fine feathers, and that
can sing like angels, such as the Martin and the Bluebird and a host of others, say I drive
them away, back to the forests where they came from.

Do I do all these things?

I'm afraid I do. I like to have my own way. Maybe you know something about that yourself, Bobbie.
When I choose a particular tree or place for myself and family to live in, I am going to have
it if I have to fight for it. I do chase the other birds away then, to be sure.

Oh, no, I don't always succeed. Once I remember a Robin got the better of me, so did a Catbird,
and another time a Baltimore Oriole. When I can't whip a bird myself I generally give a call
and a whole troop of Sparrows will come to my aid. My, how we do enjoy a fuss like that!

A bully? Well, yes, if by that you mean I rule around my own house, then I am a bully. My mate
has to do just as I say, and the little Sparrows have to mind their papa, too.

"Don't hurt the little darlings, papa," says their mother, when it comes time for them to fly,
and I hop about the nest, scolding them at the top of my voice. Then I scold her for daring
to talk to me, and sometimes make her fly away while I teach the young ones a thing or two.
Once in a while a little fellow among them will "talk back." I don't mind that though, if he
is a Cock Sparrow and looks like his papa.

No, we do not sing. We leave that for the Song Sparrows. We talk a great deal, though. In the
morning when we get up, and at night when we go to bed we chatter a great deal. Indeed there
are people shabby enough to say that we are great nuisances about that time.

THE ENGLISH SPARROW.

The English Sparrow was first introduced into the United States at Brooklyn, New York, in the
years 1851 and '52. The trees in our parks were at that time infested with a canker-worm, which
wrought them great injury, and to rid the trees of these worms was the mission of the English
Sparrow.

In his native country this bird, though of a seed-eating family (Finch), was a great insect
eater. The few which were brought over performed, at first, the duty required of them; they
devoured the worms and stayed near the cities. With the change of climate, however, came a
change in their taste for insects.

Their services in insect-killing are still not to be despised. A single pair of these Sparrows,
under observation an entire day, were seen to convey to their young no less than forty grubs
an hour, an average exceeding three thousand in the course of a week. Moreover, even in the
autumn he does not confine himself to grain, but feeds on various seeds, such as the dandelion,
the sow-thistle, and the groundsel; all of which plants are classed as weeds. It has been known,
also, to chase and devour the common white butterfly, whose caterpillars make havoc among the
garden plants.

The good he may accomplish in this direction, however, is nullified to the lovers of the beautiful,
by the war he constantly wages upon our song birds, destroying their young, and substituting
his unattractive looks and inharmonious chirps for their beautiful plumage and soul-inspiring
songs.

Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller in "Bird Ways" gives a fascinating picture of the wooing of a pair
of Sparrows in a maple tree, within sight of her city window, their setting up house-keeping,
domestic quarrel, separation, and the bringing home, immediately after, of a new bride by the
Cock Sparrow.

She knows him to be a domestic tryant, a bully in fact, self-willed and violent, holding out,
whatever the cause of disagreement, till he gets his own will; that the voices of the females
are less harsh than the males, the chatter among themselves being quite soft, as is their "baby-talk"
to the young brood.

That they delight in a mob we all know; whether a domestic skirmish or danger to a nest, how
they will all congregate, chirping, pecking, scolding, and often fighting in a fierce yet amusing
way! One cannot read these chapters of Mrs. Miller's without agreeing with Whittier:

    "Then, smiling to myself, I said,--
     How like are men and birds!"

Although a hardy bird, braving the snow and frost of winter, it likes a warm bed, to which
it may retire after the toils of the day. To this end its resting place, as well as its nest,
is always stuffed with downy feathers. Tramp, Hoodlum, Gamin, Rat of the Air! Notwithstanding
these more or less deserved names, however, one cannot view a number of homeless Sparrows,
presumably the last brood, seeking shelter in any corner or crevice from a winter's storm,
without a feeling of deep compassion. The supports of a porch last winter made but a cold roosting
place for three such wanderers within sight of our study window, and never did we behold them,
'mid a storm of sleet and rain, huddle down in their cold, ill-protected beds, without resolving
another winter should see a home prepared for them.

ALLEN'S HUMMING BIRD.

The Humming birds, with their varied beauties, constitute the most remarkable feature of the
bird-life of America. They have absolutely no representatives in any other part of the world,
the Swifts being the nearest relatives they have in other countries. Mr. Forbes says that they
abound most in mountainous countries, where the surface and productions of the soil are most
diversified within small areas. They frequent both open and rare and inaccessible places, and
are often found on the snowy peaks of Chimborazo as high as 16,000 feet, and in the very lowest
valleys in the primeval forests of Brazil, the vast palm-covered districts of the deltas of
the Amazon and Orinoco, the fertile flats and savannahs of Demarara, the luxurious and beautiful
region of Xalapa, (the realm of perpetual sunshine), and other parts of Mexico. Many of the
highest cones of extinct and existing volcanoes have also furnished great numbers of rare species.

These birds are found as small as a bumble bee and as large as a Sparrow. The smallest is from
Jamaica, the largest from Patagonia.

Allen's Hummer is found on the Pacific coast, north to British Columbia, east to southern Arizona.

