Great outward respect was shown to the Rockvilles on account of the length of their descent,
and the breadth of their acres. They were always, when any stranger asked about them, declared,
with a serious and important air, to be a very ancient, honorable, and substantial family.
"Oh! a great family are the Rockvilles, a very great family."

But if you came to close quarters with the members of this great and highly distinguished family,
you soon found yourself fundamentally astonished: you had a sensation come over you, as if
you were trying, like Moses, to draw water from a rock, without his delegated power. There
was a goodly outside of things before you, but nothing came of it. You talked, hoping to get
talking in return, but you got little more than "noes" and "yeses," and "oh! indeeds!" and
"reallys," and sometimes not even that, but a certain look of aristocratic dignity or dignification,
that was meant to serve for all answers. There was a sort of resting on aristocratic oars or
"sculls," that were not to be too vulgarly handled. There was a feeling impressed on you, that
eight-hundred years of descent and ten thousand a-year in landed income did not trouble themselves
with the trifling things that gave distinction to lesser people--such as literature, fine arts,
politics, and general knowledge. These were very well for those who had nothing else to pride
themselves on, but for the Rockvilles--oh! certainly they were by no means requisite.

In fact, you found yourself, with a little variation, in the predicament of Cowper's people,

                      --who spent their lives
  In dropping buckets into empty wells,
  And growing tired of drawing nothing up.

Who hasn't often come across these "dry wells" of society; solemn gulfs out of which you can
pump nothing up? You know them; they are at your elbow every day in large and brilliant companies,
and defy the best sucking-buckets ever invented to extract anything from them. But the Rockvilles
were each and all of this adust description. It was a family feature, and they seemed, if either,
rather proud of it. They must be so; for proud they were, amazingly proud; and they had nothing
besides to be proud of, except  their acres, and their ancestors.

But the fact was, they could not help it. It was become organic. They had acted the justice
of peace, maintained the constitution against upstarts and manufacturers, signed warrants,
supported the church and the house of correction, committed poachers, and then rested on the
dignity of their ancestors for so many generations, that their skulls, brains, constitutions,
and nervous systems, were all so completely moulded into that shape and baked into that mould,
that a Rockville would be a Rockville to the end of time, if God and Nature would have allowed
it. But such things wear out. The American Indians and the Australian nations wear out; they
are not progressive, and as Nature abhors a vacuum, she does not forget the vacuum wherever
it may be, whether in a hot desert, or in a cold and stately Rockville;--a very ancient, honorable,
and substantial family that lies fallow till the thinking faculty literally dies out.

For several generations there had been symptoms of decay about the Rockville family. Not in
its property, that was as large as ever; not in their personal stature and physical aspect.
The Rockvilles continued, as they always had been, a tall and not bad-looking family. But they
grew gradually less prolific. For a hundred and fifty years past there had seldom been more
than two, or at most three, children. There had generally been an heir to the estate, and another
to the family pulpit, and sometimes a daughter married to some neighboring squire. But Sir
Roger's father had been an only child, and Sir Roger himself was an only child. The danger
of extinction to the family, apparent as it was, had never induced Sir Roger to marry. At the
time that we are turning our attention upon him, he had reached the mature age of sixty. Nobody
believed that Sir Roger now would marry; he was the last, and likely to be, of his line.

It is worth while here to take a glance at Sir Roger and his estate. They wore a strange contrast.
The one bore all the signs of progress, the other of a stereotyped feudality. The estate, which
in the days of the first Sir Roger de Rockville had been half morass and half wilderness, was
now cultivated to the pitch of British agricultural science. The marshlands beyond the river
were one splendid expanse of richest meadows, yielding a rental of four solid pounds per acre.
Over hill and dale on this side for miles, where formerly ran wild deer, and grew wild woodlands
of furze-bushes, now lay excellent farms and hamlets, and along the ridge of the ancient cliffs
rose the most magnificent woods. Woods, too, clothed the steep hillsides, and swept down to
the noble river, their very boughs hanging far out over its clear and rapid waters. In the
midst of these fine woods stood Rockville Hall, the family seat of the Rockvilles. It reared
its old brick walls above the towering mass of elms, and travelers at a distance recognized
it for what it was, the mansion of an ancient and wealthy family.

The progress of England in arts, science, commerce, and manufacture, had carried Sir Roger's
estate along with it. It was full of active and moneyed farmers, and flourished under modern
influences. How lucky it would have been for the Rockville family had it done the same!

But amid this estate there was Sir Roger solitary, and the last of the line. He had grown well
enough--there was nothing stunted about him, so far as you could see on the surface. In stature,
he exceeded six feet. His colossal elms could not boast of a properer relative growth. He was
as large a landlord, and as tall a justice of the peace, as you could desire: but, unfortunately,
he was, after all, only the shell of a man. Like many of his veteran elms, there was a very
fine stem, only it was hollow. There was a man, just with the rather awkward deficiency of a soul.

And it were no difficult task to explain, either, how this had come about. The Rockvilles saw
plainly enough the necessity of manuring their lands, but they scorned the very idea of manuring
their family. What! that most ancient, honorable, and substantial family, suffer any of the
common earth of humanity to gather about its roots! The Rockvilles were so careful of their
good blood, that they never allied it to any but blood as pure and inane as their own. Their
elms flourished in the rotten earth of plebeian accumulations, and their acres produced large
crops of corn from the sewage of towns and fat sinks, but the Rockvilles themselves took especial
care that no vulgar vigor from the real heap of ordinary human nature should infuse a new force
of intellect into their race. The Rockvilles needed nothing; they had all that an ancient,
honorable, and substantial family could need. The Rockvilles had no need to study at school--why
should they? They did not want to get on. The Rockvilles did not aspire to distinction for
talent in the world--why should they? They had a large estate. So the Rockville soul, unused
from generation to generation, grew--

    Fine by degrees, and spiritually less,

  till it tapered off into nothing.

Look at the last of a long fine in the midst of his fine estate. Tall he was, with a stoop
in his shoulders, and a bowing of his head on one side, as if he had been accustomed to stand
under the low boughs of his woods, and peer after intruders. And that was precisely the fact.
His features were thin and sharp; his nose prominent and keen in its character; his eyes small,
black, and peering like a mole's, or a hungry swine's. Sir Roger was still oracular on the
bench, and after consulting his clerk, a good lawyer,--and looked up to by the neighboring
squires in election matters, for he was an unswerving tory. You never heard of a rational thing
that he had said in the whole course of his life; but that mattered little, he was a gentleman
of solemn aspect, of stately gait, and of a very ancient family.

With ten thousand a-year, and his rental rising, he was still, however, a man of overwhelming
cares. What mattered a fine estate if all the world was against him? And Sir Roger firmly believed
that he stood in that predicament. He had grown up to regard the world as full of little besides
upstarts, radicals, manufacturers, and poachers. All were banded, in his belief, against the
landed interest. It demanded all the energy of his very small faculties to defend himself and
the world against them.

Unfortunately for his peace, a large manufacturing town had sprung up within a couple of miles
of him. He could see its red-brick walls, and its red-tiled roofs, and its tall smoke-vomiting
chimneys, growing and extending over the slopes beyond the river. It was to him the most irritating
sight in the world; for what were all those swarming weavers and spinners but arrant radicals,
upstarts, sworn foes of ancient institutions and the landed interests of England? Sir Roger
had passed through many a desperate conflict with them for the return of members to parliament.
They brought forward men that were utter wormwood to all his feelings, and they paid no more
respect to him and his friends on such occasions than they did to the meanest creature living.
Reverence for ancient blood did not exist in that plebeian and rapidly multiplying tribe. There
were master manufacturers there actually that looked and talked as big as himself, and entre
nous, a vast deal more cleverly. The people talked of rights and franchises, and freedom of
speech and of conscience, in a way that was really frightful. Then they were given most inveterately
to running out in whole and everlasting crowds on Sundays and holidays into the fields and
woods; and as there was no part of the neighborhood half so pleasant as the groves and river
banks of Rockville, they came swarming up there in crowds that were enough to drive any man
of acres frantic.

Unluckily, there were roads all about Rockville; foot roads, and high roads and bridle roads.
There was a road up the river side, all the way to Rockville woods, and when it reached them,
it divided like a fork, and one pony or foot-path led straight up a magnificent grove of a
mile long, ending close to the hall; and another ran all along the river side, under the hills
and branches of the wood.

Oh, delicious were these woods! In the river there were islands, which were covered in summer
with the greenest grass, and the freshest of willows, and the clear waters rushed around them
in the most inviting manner imaginable. And there were numbers of people extremely ready to
accept this delectable invitation of these waters. There they came in fine weather, and as
these islands were only separated from the main-land by a little and very shallow stream, it
was delightful for lovers to get across--with laughter, and treading on stepping-stones, and
slipping off the stepping-stones up to the ankles into the cool brook, and pretty screams,
and fresh laughter, and then landing on those sunny, and to them really enchanted islands.
And then came fishermen; solitary fishermen, and fishermen in rows; fishermen lying in the
flowery grass, with fragrant meadow-sweet and honey-breathing clover all about their ears;
and fishermen standing in file, as if they were determined to clear all the river of fish in
one day. And there were other lovers, and troops of loiterers, and shouting roysterers, going
along under the boughs of the wood, and following the turns of that most companionable of rivers.
And there were boats going up and down; boats full of young people, all holiday finery and
mirth, and boats with duck-hunters, and other, to Sir Roger, detestable marauders, with guns
and dogs, and great bottles of beer. In the fine grove, on summer days, there might be found
hundreds of people. There were picnic parties, fathers and mothers with whole families of children,
and a great promenade of the delighted artisans and their wives or sweethearts.

In the times prior to the sudden growth of the neighboring town, Great Stockington, and to
the simultaneous development of the love-of-nature principle in the Stockingtonians, nothing
had been thought of all these roads. The roads were well enough till they led to these inroads.
Then Sir Roger aroused himself. This must be changed. The roads must be stopped. Nothing was
easier to his fancy. His fellow-justices, Sir Benjamin Bullockshed and Squire Sheepshank, had
asked his aid to stop the like nuisances, and it had been done at once. So Sir Roger put up
notices all about, that the roads were to be stopped by an Order of Sessions, and these notices
were signed, as required by law, by their worships of Bullockshed and Sheepshank. But Sir Roger
soon found that it was one thing to stop a road leading from Oneman-Town to Lonely-Lodge, and
another to attempt to stop those from Great-Stockington to Rockville.

On the very first Sunday after the exhibition of those notice-boards, there was a ferment in
the grove of Rockville, as if all the bees in the county were swarming there, with all the
wasps and hornets to boot. Great crowds were collected before each of these obnoxious placards,
and the amount of curses vomited against them was really shocking for any day, but more especially
for a Sunday. Presently there was a rush at them; they were torn down, and simultaneously pitched
into the river. There were great crowds swarming all about Rockville all that day, and with
looks so defiant that Sir Roger more than once contemplated sending off for the Yeoman Cavalry
to defend his house, which he seriously thought in danger.

But so far from being intimidated from proceeding, this demonstration only made Sir Roger the
more determined. To have so desperate and irreverent a population coming about his house and
woods now presented itself in a much more formidable aspect than ever. So, next day, not only
were the placards once more hoisted, but rewards offered for the discovery of the offenders,
attended with all the maledictions of the insulted majesty of the law. No notice was taken
of this, but the whole of Great Stockington was in a buzz and an agitation. There were posters
plastered all over the walls of the town, four times as large as Sir Roger's notices, in this
style:--

"Englishmen! your dearest rights are menaced! The Woods of Rockville, your ancient, rightful,
and enchanting resorts, are to be closed to you. Stockingtonians! The eyes of the world are
upon you. 'Awake! arise! or be forever fallen!' England expects every man to do his duty! And
your duty is to resist and defy the grasping soil-lords, to seize on your ancient Patrimony!"

"Patrimony! Ancient and rightful resort of Rockville!" Sir Roger was astounded at the audacity
of this upstart, plebeian race. What! They actually claimed Rockville, the heritage of a hundred
successive Rockvilles, as their own. Sir Roger determined to carry it to the Sessions; and
at the Sessions was a magnificent muster of all his friends. There was Sir Roger himself in
the chair; and on either hand, a prodigious row of county squirearchy. There was Sir Benjamin
Bullockshed, and Sir Thomas Tenterhook, and all the squires,--Sheepshank, Ramsbottom, Turnbull,
Otterbrook, and Swagsides. The Clerk of Sessions read the notice for the closing of all the
footpaths through the woods of Rockville, and declared that this notice had been duly, and
for the required period publicly, posted. The Stockingtonians protested by their able lawyer
Daredeville, against any order for the closing of these ancient woods--the inestimable property
of the public.

"Property of the public!" exclaimed Sir Roger. "Property of the public!" echoed the multitudinous
voices of indignant Bullocksheds, Tenterhooks, and Ramsbottoms. "Why, sir, do you dispute the
right of Sir Roger Rockville to his own estate?"

"By no means;" replied the undaunted Daredeville; "the estate of Rockville is unquestionably
the property of the honorable baronet, Sir Roger Rockville; but the roads through it are the
as unquestionable Property of the public."

The whole bench looked at itself; that is, at each other, in wrathful astonishment. The swelling
in the diaphragms of the squires Otterbrook, Turnbull, and Swagsides, and all the rest of the
worshipful row, was too big to admit of utterance. Only Sir Roger himself burst forth with
an abrupt--

"Impudent fellows! But I'll see them ---- first!"

"Grant the order!" said Sir Benjamin Bullockshed; and the whole bench nodded assent. The able
lawyer Daredeville retired with a pleasant smile. He saw an agreeable prospect of plenty of
grist to his mill. Sir Roger was rich, and so was Great Stockington. He rubbed his hands, not
in the least like a man defeated, and thought to himself, "Let them go at it--all right."

The next day the placards on the Rockville estate were changed for others Bearing "STOPPED
BY ORDER OF SESSIONS!" and alongside of them were huge carefully painted boards, denouncing
on all trespassers prosecutions according to law. The same evening came a prodigious invasion
of Stockingtonians--tore all the boards and placards down, and carried them on their shoulders
to Great Stockington, singing as they went, "See, the Conquering Heroes come!" They set them
up in the center of Stockington market-place, and burnt them, along with an effigy of Sir Roger
Rockville.

That was grist at once to the mill of the able lawyer Daredeville. He looked on, and rubbed
his hands. Warrants were speedily issued by the baronets of Bullockshed and Tenterhook, for
the apprehension of the individuals who had been seen carrying off the notice-boards, for larceny,
and against a number of others for trespass. There was plenty of work for Daredeville and his
brethren of the robe; but it all ended, after the flying about of sundry mandamuses and assize
trials, in Sir Roger finding that though Rockville was his, the roads through it were the public's.

As Sir Roger drove homeward from the assize, which finally settled the question of these footpaths,
he heard the bells in all the steeples of Great Stockington burst forth with a grand peal of
triumph. He closed first the windows of his fine old carriage, and sunk into a corner; but
he could not drown the intolerable sound. "But," said he, "I'll stop their picnic-ing. I'll
stop their fishing. I'll have hold of them for trespassing and poaching!" There was war henceforth
between Rockville and Great Stockington.

On the very next Sunday there came literally thousands of the jubilant Stockingtonians to Rockville.
They had brought baskets, and were for dining, and drinking success to all footpaths. But in
the great grove there were keepers, and watchers, who warned them to keep the path, that narrow
well-worn line up the middle of the grove. "What! were they not to sit on the grass?"--"No!"--"What!
were they not to picnic?"--"No! not there!"

The Stockingtonians felt a sudden damp on their spirits. But the river bank! The cry was "To
the river bank! There they would picnic." The crowd rushed away down the wood, but on the river
bank they found a whole regiment of watchers, who pointed again to the narrow line of footpath,
and told them not to trespass beyond it. But the islands! they went over to the islands. But
there too were Sir Roger's forces, who warned them back! There was no road there--all found
there would be trespassers, and be duly punished.

The Stockingtonians discovered that their triumph was not quite so complete as they had flattered
themselves. The footpaths were theirs, but that was all. Their ancient license was at an end.
If they came there, there was no more fishing; if they came in crowds, there was no more picnic-ing;
if they walked through the woods in numbers, they must keep to Indian file, or they were summoned
before the county magistrates for trespass, and were soundly fined; and not even the able Daredeville
would undertake to defend them.

The Stockingtonians were chopfallen, but they were angry and dogged; and They thronged up to
the village and the front of the hall. They filled the little inn in the hamlet-they went by
scores, and roving all over the churchyard, read epitaphs

  That teach the rustic moralists to die,

but don't teach them to give up their old indulgences very good-humoredly. They went and sat
in rows on the old churchyard wall, opposite to the very windows of the irate Sir Roger. They
felt themselves beaten, and Sir Roger felt himself beaten. True, he could coerce them to the
keeping of the footpaths--but, then, they had the footpaths! True, thought the Stockingtonians,
we have the footpaths, but then the picnic-ing, and the fishing, and the islands! The Stockingtonians
were full of sullen wrath, and Sir Roger was--oh, most expressive old Saxon phrase--HAIRSORE!
Yes, he was one universal round of vexation and jealousy of his rights. Every hair in his body
was like a pin sticking into him. Come within a dozen yards of him; nay, at the most, blow
on him, and he was excruciated--you rubbed his sensitive hairs at a furlong's distance.

The next Sunday the people found the churchyard locked up, except during service, when beadles
walked there, and desired them not to loiter and disturb the congregation, closing the gates,
and showing them out like a flock of sheep the moment the service was over. This was fuel to
the already boiling blood of Stockington. The week following, what was their astonishment to
find a much frequented ruin gone! it was actually gone! not a trace of it; but the spot where
it had stood for ages, turfed, planted with young spruce trees, and fenced off with post and
rail! The exasperated people now launched forth an immensity of fulminations against the churl
Sir Roger, and a certain number of them resolved to come and seat themselves in the street
of the hamlet and there dine; but a terrific thunderstorm, which seemed in league with Sir
Roger, soon routed them, drenched them through, and on attempting to seek shelter in the cottages,
the poor people said they were very sorry, but it was as much as their holdings were worth,
and they dare not admit them.

Sir Roger had triumphed! It was all over with the old delightful days at Rockville. There was
an end of picnic-ing, of fishing, and of roving in the islands. One sturdy disciple  of Izaak
Walton, indeed, dared to fling a line from the banks of Rockville grove, but Sir Roger came
upon him and endeavored to seize him. The man coolly walked into the middle of the river, and,
without a word, continued his fishing.

"Get out there!" exclaimed Sir Roger, "that is still on my property." The man walked through
the river to the other bank, where he knew that the land was rented by a farmer. "Give over,"
shouted Sir Roger, "I tell you the water is mine."

"Then," said the fellow, "bottle it up, and be hanged to you! Don't you see it is running away
to Stockington?"

There was bad blood between Rockville and Stockington-green. Stockington was incensed, and
Sir Roger was hairsore.

A new nuisance sprung up. The people of Stockington looked on the cottagers of Rockville as
sunk in deepest darkeness under such a man as Sir Roger and his cousin the vicar. They could
not picnic, but they thought they could hold a camp-meeting; they could not fish for roach,
but they thought they might for souls. Accordingly there assembled crowds of Stockingtonians
on the green of Rockville, with a chair and a table, and a preacher with his head bound in
a red handkerchief; and soon there was a sound of hymns, and a zealous call to come out of
the darkness of the spiritual Babylon. But this was more than Sir Roger could bear; he rushed
forth with all his servants, keepers, and cottagers, overthrew the table, and routing the assembly,
chased them to the boundary of his estate.

The discomfited Stockingtonians now fulminated awful judgments on the unhappy Sir Roger, as
a persecutor and a malignant. They dared not enter again on his park, but they came to the
very verge of it, and held weekly meetings on the highway, in which they sang and declaimed
as loudly as possible, that the winds might bear their voices to Sir Roger's ears.

To such a position was now reduced the last of the long line of Rockville. The spirit of a
policeman had taken possession of him. He had keepers and watchers out on all sides, but they
did not satisfy him. He was perpetually haunted with the idea that poachers were after his
game, that trespassers were in his woods. His whole life was now spent in stealing to and fro
in his fields and plantations, and prowling along his river side. He looked under hedges, and
watched for long hours under the forest trees. If any one had a curiosity to see Sir Roger,
they had only to enter his fields by the wood side, and wander a few yards from the path, and
he was almost sure to spring out over the hedge, and in angry tones demand their name and address.
The descendant of the chivalrous and steelclad De Rockvilles was sunk into a restless spy on
his own ample property. There was but one idea in his mind--encroachment. It was destitute
of all other furniture but the musty technicalities of warrants and commitments. There was
a stealthy and skulking manner in everything that he did. He went to church on Sundays, but
it was no longer by the grand iron gate opposite to his house, that stood generally with a
large spider's web woven over the lock, and several others in different corners of the fine
iron tracery, bearing evidence of the long period since it had been opened. How different to
the time when the Sir Roger and the Lady of Rockville had had these gates thrown wide on a
Sunday morning, and with all their train of household servants after their back, with true
antique dignity, marched with much proud humility into the house of God. Now, Sir Roger--the
solitary, suspicious, undignified Sir Roger, the keeper and policeman of his own property--stole
in at a little side gate from his paddock, and back the same way, wondering all the time whether
there was not somebody in his pheasant preserves, or Sunday trespassers in his grove.

If you entered his house it gave you as cheerless a feeling as its owner. There was the conservatory,
so splendid with rich plants and flowers in his mothers time--now a dusty receptacle of hampers,
broken hand-glasses, and garden tools. These tools could never be used, for the gardens were
grown wild. Tall grass grew in the walks, and the huge unpruned shrubs disputed the passage
with you. In the wood above the gardens, reached by several flights of fine, but now moss-grown,
steps, there stood a pavilion, once clearly very beautiful. It was now damp and ruinous-its
walls covered with greenness and crawling insects. It was a great lurking-place of Sir Roger
when on the watch for poachers.

The line of the Rockvilles was evidently running fast out. It had reached the extremity of
imbecility and contempt--it must soon reach its close.

Sir Roger used to make his regular annual visit to town; but of late, when there, he had wandered
restlessly about the streets, peeping into the shop-windows; and if it rained, standing under
entries for hours after, till it was gone over. The habit of lurking and peering about was
upon him; and his feet bore him instinctively into those narrow and crowded alleys where swarm
the poachers of the city--the trespassers and anglers in the game preserves and streams of
humanity. He had lost all pleasure in his club; the most exciting themes of political life
retained no piquancy for him. His old friends ceased to find any pleasure in him. He was become
the driest of all dry wells. Poachers, and anglers, and Methodists, haunted the wretched purlieus
of his fast fading-out mind, and he resolved to go to town no more. His whole nature was centered
in his woods. He was forever on the watch; and when at Rockville again, if he heard a door
clap when in bed, he thought it a gun in his woods, and started up, and was out with his keepers.

Of what value was that magnificent estate to him?--those superb woods; those finely-hanging
cliffs; that clear and riant river coming traveling on, and taking a noble sweep below his
windows--that glorious expanse of neat verdant meadows, stretching almost to Stockington, and
enlivened by numerous herds of the most beautiful cattle--those old farms and shady lanes overhung
with hazel and wild rose; the glittering brook, and the songs of woodland birds--what were
they to that worn-out old man, that victim of the delusive doctrine of blood, of the man-trap
of an hereditary name?

There the poet could come, and feel the presence of divinity in that noble scene, and hear
sublime whispers in the trees, and create new heavens and earths from the glorious chaos of
nature around him, and in one short hour live an empyrean of celestial life and love. There
could come the very humblest children of the plebeian town, and feel a throb of exquisite delight
pervade their bosoms at the sight of the very flowers on the sod, and see heaven in the infinite
blue above them. And poor Sir Roger, the holder, but not the possessor of all, walked only
in a region of sterility, with no sublimer ideas than poachers and trespassers-no more rational
enjoyment than the brute indulgence of hunting like a ferret, and seizing his fellow-men like
a bulldog. He was a specimen of human nature degenerated, retrograded from the divine to the
bestial, through the long operating influences of false notions and institutions, continued
beyond their time. He had only the soul of a keeper. Had he been only a keeper, he had been
a much happier man.

His time was at hand. The severity which he had long dealt out toward all sorts of offenders
made him the object of the deepest vengeance. In a lonely hollow of his woods, watching at
midnight with two of his men, there came a sturdy knot of poachers. An affray ensued. The men
perceived that their old enemy, Sir Roger, was there: and the blow of a hedge-stake stretched
him on the earth. His keepers fled--and thus ignominiously terminated the long line of the
Rockvilles. Sir Roger was the last of his line, but not of his class. There is a feudal art
of sinking, which requires no study; and the Rockvilles are but one family among thousands
who have perished in its practice.

CHAPTER II.

In Great Stockington there lived a race of paupers. From the year of the 42d of Elizabeth,
or 1601, down to the present generation, this race maintained an uninterrupted descent. They
were a steady and unbroken line of paupers, as the parish books testify. From generation to
generation their demands on the parish funds stand recorded. There were no lacunæ in their
career; there never failed an heir to these families; fed on the bread of idleness and legal
provision, these people flourished, increased and multiplied. Sometimes compelled to work for
the weekly dole which they received, they never acquired a taste for labor, or lost the taste
for the bread for which they did not labor. These paupers regarded this maintenance by no means
as a disgrace. They claimed it as a right,--as their patrimony. They contended that one-third
of the property of the Church had been given by benevolent individuals for the support of the
poor, and that what the Reformation wrongfully deprived them of, the great enactment of Elizabeth
rightfully--and only rightfully--restored.

Those who imagine that all paupers merely claimed parish relief because the law ordained it,
commit a great error. There were numbers who were hereditary paupers, and that on a tradition
carefully handed down, that they were only manfully claiming their own. They traced their claims
from the most ancient feudal times, when the lord was as much bound to maintain his villein
in gross, as the villein was to work for the lord. These paupers were, in fact, or claimed
to be, the original adscripti glebæ, and to have as much a claim to parish support as the landed
proprietor had to his land. For this reason, in the old Catholic times, after they had escaped
from villenage by running away and remaining absent from their hundred for a year and a day,
dwelling for that period in a walled town, these people were amongst the most diligent attendants
at the Abbey doors, and when the Abbeys were dissolved, were, no doubt, amongst the most daring
of these thieves, vagabonds, and sturdy rogues, who, after the Robin Hood fashion, beset the
highways and solitary farms of England, and claimed their black mail in a very unceremonious
style. It was out of this class that Henry VIII. hanged his seventy-two thousand during his
reign, and, as it is said, without appearing materially to diminish their number.

That they continued to "increase, multiply, and replenish the earth," overflowing all bounds,
overpowering by mere populousness all the severe laws against them of whipping, burning in
the hand, in the forehead or in the breast, and hanging, and filling the whole country with
alarm, is evident by the very act itself of Elizabeth.

Amongst these hereditary paupers who, as we have said, were found in Stockington, there was
a family of the name of Deg. This family had never failed to demand and enjoy what it held
to be its share of its ancient inheritance. It appeared from the parish records, that they
had practiced in different periods the crafts of shoemaking, tailoring, and chimney-sweeping;
but since the invention of the stocking-frame, they had, one and all of them, followed the
profession of stocking weavers, or as they were there called, stockingers. This was a trade
which required no extreme exertion of the physical or intellectual powers. To sit in a frame,
and throw the arms to and fro, was a thing that might either be carried to a degree of extreme
diligence, or be let down into a mere apology for idleness. An "idle stockinger" was there
no very uncommon phrase, and the Degs were always classed under that head. Nothing could be
more admirably adapted than this trade for building a plan of parish relief upon. The Degs
did not pretend to be absolutely without work, or the parish authorities would soon have set
them to some real labor,--a thing that they particularly recoiled from, having a very old adage
in the family, that "hard work was enough to kill a man." The Degs were seldom, therefore out
of work, but they did not get enough to meet and tie. They had but little work if the times
were bad, and if they were good, they had large families, and sickly wives or children. Be
times what they would, therefore, the Degs were due and successful attendants at the parish
pay-table. Nay, so much was this a matter of course, that they came at length not even trouble
themselves to receive their pay, but sent their young children for it; and it was duly paid.
Did any parish officer, indeed, turn restive, and decline to pay a Deg, he soon found himself
summoned before a magistrate, and such pleas of sickness, want of work, and poor earnings brought
up, that he most likely got a sharp rebuke from the benevolent but uninquiring magistrate,
and acquired a character for hard-heartedness that stuck to him.

So parish overseers learnt to let the Degs alone; and their children regularly brought up to
receive the parish money for their parents, were impatient as they grew up to receive it for
themselves. Marriages in the Deg family were consequently very early, and there were plenty
of instances of married Degs claiming parish relief under the age of twenty, on the plea of
being the parent of two children. One such precocious individual being asked by a rather verdant
officer why he had married before he was able to maintain a family, replied, in much astonishment,
that he had married in order to maintain himself by parish assistance. That he never had been
able to maintain himself by his labor, nor ever expected to do it; his only hope, therefore,
lay in marrying, and becoming the father of two children, to which patriarchal rank he had
now attained, and demanded his "pay."

Thus had lived and flourished the Degs on their ancient patrimony, the parish, for upward of
two hundred years. Nay, we have no doubt whatever that, if it could have been traced, they
had enjoyed an ancestry of paupers as long as the pedigree of Sir Roger Rockville himself.
In the days of the most perfect villenage, they had, doubtless, eaten the bread of idleness,
and claimed it as a right. They were numerous, improvident, ragged in dress, and fond of an
alehouse and of gossip. Like the blood of Sir Roger, their blood had become peculiar through
a long persistence of the same circumstances. It was become pure pauper blood. The Degs married,
if not entirely among Degs, yet amongst the same class. None but a pauper would dream of marrying
a Deg. The Degs, therefore, were in constitution, in mind, in habit, and in inclination, paupers.
But a pure and unmixed class of this kind does not die out like an aristocratic stereotype.
It increases and multiplies. The lower the grade, the more prolific, as is sometimes seen on
a large and even national scale. The Degs threatened, therefore, to become a most formidable
clan in the lower purlieus of Stockington, but luckily there is so much virtue even in evils,
that one, not rarely, cures another. War, the great evil, cleared the town of Degs.

Fond of idleness, of indulgence, of money easily got, and as easily spent, the Degs were rapidly
drained off by recruiting parties during the last war. The young men enlisted, and were marched
away; the young women married soldiers that were quartered in the town from time to time, and
marched away with them. There were, eventually, none of the once numerous Degs left except
a few old people, whom death was sure to draft off at no distant period with his regiment of
the line which has no end. Parish overseers, magistrates, and master manufacturers, felicitated
themselves at this unhoped-for deliverance from the ancient family of the Degs.

But one cold, clear, winter evening, the east wind piping its sharp sibilant ditty in the bare
shorn hedges, and poking its sharp fingers into the sides of well broad-clothed men by the
way of passing jest, Mr. Spires, a great manufacturer of Stockington, driving in his gig some
seven miles from the town, passed a poor woman with a stout child on her back. The large ruddy-looking
man in the prime of life, and in the great coat and thick worsted gloves of a wealthy traveler,
cast a glance at the wretched creature trudging heavily on, expecting a pitiful appeal to his
sensibilities, and thinking it a bore to have to pull off a glove and dive into his pocket
for a copper; but to his surprise there was no demand, only a low courtesy, and the glimpse
of a face of singular honesty of expression, and of excessive weariness.

Spires was a man of warm feelings; he looked earnestly at the woman, and Thought he had never
seen such a picture of fatigue in his life. He pulled up and said,

"You seem very tired, my good woman."

"Awfully tired, sir."

"And are you going far to-night?"

"To Great Stockington, sir, if God give me strength."

"To Stockington!" exclaimed Mr. Spires. "Why, you seem ready to drop. You'll never reach it.
You'd better stop at the next village."

"Ay, sir, it's easy stopping, for those that have money."

"And you've none, eh?"

"As God lives, sir, I've a sixpence, and that's all."

Mr. Spires put his hand in his pocket, and held out to her, the next instant, half-a-crown.

"There stop, poor thing--make yourself comfortable--it's quite out of the question to reach
Stockington. But stay--are your friends living in Stockington--what are you?"

"A poor soldier's widow, sir. And may God Almighty bless you!" said the poor woman, taking
the money, the tears standing in her large brown eyes as she courtesied very low.

"A soldier's widow!" said Mr. Spires. She had touched the softest place in the manufacturer's
heart, for he was a very loyal man, and vehement champion of his country's honor in the war.
"So young," said he, "how did you lose your husband?"

"He fell, sir," said the poor woman; but she could get no further; she suddenly caught up the
corner of her gray cloak, covered her face with it, and burst into an excess of grief.

The manufacturer felt as if he had hit the woman a blow by his careless question; he sat watching
her for a moment in silence, and then said, "Come, get into the gig, my poor woman; come, I
must see you to Stockington."

The poor woman dried her tears, and heavily climbed into the gig, expressing her gratitude
in a very touching and modest manner. Spires buttoned the apron over her, and taking a look
at the child, said in a cheerful tone to comfort her, "Bless me, but that is a fine thumping
fellow, though. I don't wonder that you are tired, carrying such a load."

The poor woman pressed the stout child, apparently two years old, to her breast, as if she
felt it a great blessing and no load: the gig drove rapidly on.

Presently Mr. Spires resumed his conversation.

"So you are from Stockington?"

"No, sir, my husband was."

"So: what was his name?"

"John Deg, sir."

"Deg?" said Mr. Spires. "Deg, did you say?"

"Yes, sir."

The manufacturer seemed to hitch himself off toward his own side of the gig, gave another look
at her, and was silent. The poor woman was somewhat astonished at his look and movement, and
was silent too.

After awhile Mr. Spires said again, "And do you hope to find friends in Stockington? Had you
none where you came from?"

"None, sir, none in the world!" said the poor woman, and again her feelings seemed too strong
for her. At length she added, "I was in service, sir, at Poole, in Dorsetshire, when I married;
my mother only was living, and while I was away with my husband, she died. When-when the news
came from abroad--that when I was a widow, sir, I went back to my native place, and the parish
officers said I must go to my husband's parish lest I and my child should become troublesome."

"You asked relief of them?"

"Never; Oh, God knows, no, never! My family have never asked a penny of a parish. They would
die first, and so would I, sir; but they said I might do it, and I had better go to my husband's
parish at once--and they offered me money to go."

"And you took it, of course?"

"No, sir; I had a little money, which I had earned by washing and laundering, and I sold most
of my things, as I could not carry them, and came off. I felt hurt, sir; my heart rose against
the treatment of the parish, and I thought I should be better amongst my friends--and my child
would, if anything happened to me; I had no friends of my own."

Mr. Spires looked at the woman in silence. "Did your husband tell you anything of his friends?
What sort of a man was he?"

"Oh, he was a gay young fellow, rather, sir; but not bad to me. He always said his friends
were well off in Stockington."

"He did!" said the manufacturer, with a great stare, and as if bolting the words from his heart
in a large gust of wonder.

The poor woman again looked at him with a strange look. The manufacturer Whistled to himself,
and giving his horse a smart cut with the whip, drove on faster than ever. The night was fast
settling down; it was numbing cold; a gray fog rose from the river as they thundered over the
old bridge; and tall engine chimneys, and black smoky houses loomed through the dusk before
them. They were at Stockington.

As they slackened their pace up a hill at the entrance of the town, Mr. Spires again opened
his mouth.

"I should be sorry to hurt your feelings, Mrs. Deg," he said, "but I have my fears that you
are coming to this place with false expectations. I fear your husband did not give you the
truest possible account of his family here."

"Oh, sir! what--what is it?" exclaimed the poor woman; "in God's name, tell me!"

"Why, nothing more than this," said the manufacturer, "that there are very few of the Degs
left here. They are old, and on the parish, and can do nothing for you."

The poor woman gave a deep sigh, and was silent.

"But don't be cast down," said Mr. Spires. He would not tell her what a pauper family really
was, for he saw that she was a very feeling woman, and he thought she would learn that soon
enough. He felt that her husband had from vanity given her a false account of his connections;
and he was really sorry for her.

"Don't be cast down," he went on; "you can wash and iron, you say; you are young and strong:
those are your friends. Depend on them, and they'll be better friends to you than any other."

The poor woman was silent, leaning her head down on her slumbering child, and crying to herself;
and thus they drove on, through many long and narrow streets, with gas flaring from the shops,
but with few people in the streets, and these hurrying shivering along the pavement, so intense
was the cold. Anon they stopped at a large pair of gates; the manufacturer rung a bell, which
he could reach from his gig, and the gates presently were flung open, and they drove into a
spacious yard, with a large handsome house, having a bright lamp burning before it, on one
side of the yard, and tall warehouses on the other.

"Show this poor woman and her child to Mrs. Craddock's, James," said Mr. Spires, "and tell
Mrs. Craddock to make them very comfortable; and if you will come to my warehouse to-morrow,"
added he, addressing the poor woman, "perhaps I can be of some use to you."

The poor woman poured out her heartfelt thanks, and following the old man-servant, soon disappeared,
hobbling over the pebbly pavement with her living load, stiffened almost to stone by her fatigue
and her cold ride.

We must not pursue too minutely our narrative Mrs. Deg was engaged to do the washing and getting
up of Mr. Spires' linen, and the manner in which she executed her task insured her recommendations
to all their friends. Mrs. Deg was at once in full employ. She occupied a neat house in a yard
near the meadows below the town, and in those meadows she might be seen spreading out her clothes
to whiten on the grass, attended by her stout little boy. In the same yard lived a shoemaker,
who had two or three children of about the same age as Mrs. Deg's child. The children, as time
went on, became playfellows. Little Simon might be said to have the free run of the shoemaker's
house, and he was the more attracted thither by the shoemaker's birds, and by his flute, on
which he often played after his work was done.

Mrs. Deg took a great friendship for this shoemaker; and he and his wife, a quiet, kind-hearted
woman, were almost all the acquaintances that she cultivated. She had found out her husband's
parents, but they were not of a description that at all pleased her. They were old and infirm,
but they were of the true pauper breed, a sort of person whom Mrs. Deg had been taught to avoid
and to despise. They looked on her as a sort of second parish, and insisted that she should
come and live with them, and help to maintain them out of her earnings. But Mrs. Deg would
rather her little boy had died than have been familiarized with the spirit and habits of those
old people. Despise them she struggled hard not to do, and she agreed to allow them sufficient
to maintain them on condition that they desisted from any further application to the parish.
It would be a long and disgusting story to recount all the troubles, annoyance, and querulous
complaints, and even bitter accusations that she received from these connections, whom she
could never satisfy; but she considered it one of the crosses in her life, and patiently bore
it, seeing that they suffered no real want, so long as they lived, which was for years; but
she would never allow her little Simon to be with them alone.

The shoemaker neighbor was a stout protection to her against the greedy demands of these old
people, and of others of the old Degs, and also against another class of inconvenient visitors,
namely, suitors, who saw in Mrs. Deg a neat and comely young woman, with a flourishing business
and a neat and soon well-furnished house, a very desirable acquisition. But Mrs. Deg had resolved
never again to marry, but to live for her boy, and she kept her resolve in firmness and gentleness.

The shoemaker often took walks in the extensive town meadows, to gather groundsell and plantain
for his canaries and gorse-linnets, and little Simon Deg delighted to accompany him with his
own children. There William Watson, the shoemaker, used to point out to the children the beauty
of the flowers, the insects, and other objects of nature; and while he sat on a style and read
in a little old book of poetry, as he often used to do, the children sat on the summer grass,
and enjoyed themselves in a variety of plays.

The effect of these walks and the shoemaker's conversation on little Simon Deg was such as
never wore out of him through his whole life, and soon led him to astonish the shoemaker by
his extraordinary conduct. He manifested the utmost uneasiness at their treading on the flowers
in the grass; he would burst with tears if they persisted in it; and when asked why, he said
they were so beautiful, that they must enjoy the sunshine, and be very unhappy to die. The
shoemaker was amazed, but indulged the lad's fancy. One day he thought to give him a great
treat, and when they were out in the meadows, he drew from under his coat a bow and arrow,
and shot the arrow high up in the air. He expected to see him in an ecstasy of delight: his
own children clapped their hands in transport, but Simon stood silent, and as if awe-struck.

"Shall I send up another?" asked the shoemaker.

"No, no," exclaimed the child, imploringly. "You say God lives up there, and he mayn't like it."

The shoemaker laughed, but presently he said, as if to himself, "There is too much imagination
there. There will be a poet, if we don't take care."

The shoemaker offered to teach Simon to read, and to solidify his mind, as he termed it, by
arithmetic, and then to teach him to work at his trade. His mother was very glad, and thought
shoemaking would be a good trade for the boy; and that with Mr. Watson she should have him
always near her. He was growing now a great lad, and was especially strong, and of a frank
and daring habit. He was especially indignant at any act of oppression of the weak by the strong,
and not seldom got into trouble by his championship of the injured in such cases among the
boys of the neighborhood.

He was now about twelve years of age; when, going one day with a basket of clothes on his head
to Mr. Spires's for his mother, he was noticed by Mr. Spires himself from his counting-house
window. The great war was raging; there was much distress among the manufacturers; and the
people were suffering and exasperated against their masters. Mr. Spires, as a staunch tory,
and supporter of the war, was particularly obnoxious to the workpeople, who uttered violent
threats against him. For this reason his premises were strictly guarded, and at the entrance
of his yard, just within the gates, was chained a huge and fierce mastiff, his chain allowing
him to approach near enough to intimidate any stranger, though not to reach him. The dog knew
the people who came regularly about, and seemed not to notice them, but on the entrance of
a stranger, he rose up, barked fiercely, and came to the length of his chain. This always drew
the attention of the porter, if he were away from his box, and few persons dared to pass till
he came.

Simon Deg was advancing with the basket of clean linen on his head, when the dog rushed out,
and barking loudly, came exactly opposite to him, within a few feet. The boy, a good deal startled
at first, reared himself with his back against the wall, but at a glance perceiving that the
dog was at the length of his tether, he seemed to enjoy his situation, and stood smiling at
the furious animal, and lifting his basket with both hands above his head, nodded to him, as
if to say, "Well, old boy, you'd like to eat me, wouldn't you?"

Mr. Spires, who sat near his counting-house window at his books, was struck with the bold and
handsome bearing of the boy, and said to a clerk:

"What boy is that?"

"It is Jenny Deg's," was the answer.

"Ha! that boy! Zounds! how boys do grow! Why that's the child that Jenny Deg was carrying when
she came to Stockington: and what a strong, handsome, bright-looking fellow he is now!"

As the boy was returning, Mr. Spires called him to the counting-house door, and put some questions
to him as to what he was doing and learning, and so on.

Simon, taking off his cap with much respect, answered in such a clear and Modest way, and with
a voice that had so much feeling and natural music in it, that the worthy manufacturer was
greatly taken with him.

"That's no Deg," said he, when he again entered the counting-house, "not a bit of it. He's
all Goodrick, or whatever his mother's name was, every inch of him."

The consequence of that interview was, that Simon Deg was very soon after Perched on a stool
in Mr. Spires's counting-house, where he continued till he was twenty-two. Mr. Spires had no
son, only a single daughter; and such were Simon Deg's talents, attention to business, and
genial disposition, that at that age Mr. Spires gave him a share in the concern. He was himself
now getting less fond of exertion than he had been, and placed the most implicit reliance on
Simon's judgment and general management. Yet no two men could be more unlike in their opinions
beyond the circle of trade. Mr. Spires was a staunch tory of the staunch old school. He was
for Church and King, and for things remaining forever as they had been. Simon, on the other
hand, had liberal and reforming notions. He was for the improvement of the people, and their
admission to many privileges. Mr. Spires was therefore liked by the leading men of the place,
and disliked by the people. Simon's estimation was precisely in the opposite direction. But
this did not disturb their friendship; it required another disturbing cause--and that came.

Simon Deg and the daughter of Mr. Spires grew attached to each other; and as the father had
thought Simon worthy of becoming a partner in the business, neither of the young people deemed
that he would object to a partnership of a more domestic description. But here they made a
tremendous mistake. No sooner was such a proposal hinted at, than Mr. Spires burst forth with
the fury of all the winds from the bag of Ulysses.

"What! a Deg aspire to the hand of the sole heiress of the enormously opulent Spires?"

The very thought almost cut the proud manufacturer off with an apoplexy. The hosts of a thousand
paupers rose up before him, and he was black in the face. It was only by a prompt and bold
application of leeches and lancet that the life of the great man was saved. But there was an
end of all further friendship between himself and the expectant Simon. He insisted that he
should withdraw from the concern, and it was done. Simon, who felt his own dignity deeply wounded
too, for dignity he had, though the last of a long line of paupers--his own dignity, not his
ancestors'--took silently, yet not unrespectfully, his share--a good, round sum, and entered
another house of business.

For several years there appeared to be a feud and a bitterness between the former friends;
yet it showed itself in no other manner than by a careful avoidance of each other. The continental
war came to an end; the manufacturing distress increased exceedingly. There came troublous
times, and a fierce warfare of politics. Great Stockington was torn asunder by rival parties.
On one side stood preeminent, Mr. Spires; on the other towered conspicuously, Simon Deg. Simon
was grown rich, and extremely popular. He was on all occasions the advocate of the people.
He said that he had sprung from, and was one of them. He had bought a large tract of land on
one side of the town; and intensely fond of the country and flowers himself, he had divided
this into gardens, built little summer-houses in them, and let them to the artisans. In his
factory he had introduced order, cleanliness, and ventilation. He had set up a school for the
children in the evenings, with a reading-room and conversation-room for the work-people, and
encouraged them to bring their families there, and enjoy music, books, and lectures. Accordingly,
he was the idol of the people, and the horror of the old school of manufacturers.

"A pretty upstart and demagogue I've nurtured," said Mr. Spires often, to his wife and daughter,
who only sighed, and were silent.

Then came a furious election. The town, for a fortnight, more resembled the worst corner  of
Tartarus than a Christian borough. Drunkenness, riot, pumping on one another, spencering one
another, all sorts of violence and abuse ruled and raged till the blood of all Stockington
was at boiling heat. In the midst of the tempest were everywhere seen, ranged on the opposite
sides, Mr. Spires, now old and immensely corpulent, and Simon Deg, active, buoyant, zealous,
and popular beyond measure. But popular though he was, the other and old tory side still triumphed.
The people were exasperated to madness; and when the chairing of the successful candidate commenced,
there was a terrific attack made on the procession by the defeated party. Down went the chair,
and the new member, glad to escape into an inn, saw his friends mercilessly assailed by the
populace. There was a tremendous tempest of sticks, brickbats, paving-stones, and rotten eggs.
In the midst of all this, Simon Deg and a number of his friends, standing at the upper window
of an hotel, saw Mr. Spires knocked down and trampled on by the crowd. In an instant, and before
his friends had missed him from amongst them, Simon Deg was seen darting through the raging
mass, cleaving his way with a surprising vigor, and gesticulating, and no doubt shouting vehemently
to the rioters, though his voice was lost in the din. In the next moment his hat was knocked
off, and himself appeared in imminent danger: but, another moment, and there was a pause, and
a group of people were bearing somebody from the frantic mob into a neighboring shop. It was
Simon Deg, assisting in the rescue of his old friend and benefactor, Mr. Spires.

Mr. Spires was a good deal bruised, and wonderfully confounded and bewildered by his fall.
His clothes were one mass of mud, and his face was bleeding copiously; but when he had had
a good draught of water, and his face washed, and had time to recover himself, it was found
that he had received no serious injury.

"They had like to have done for me, though," said he.

"Yes, and who saved you?" asked a gentleman.

"Ay, who was it? who was it?" asked the really warm-hearted manufacturer; "let me know? I owe
him my life."

"There he is!" said several gentlemen, at the same instant, pushing forward Simon Deg.

"What, Simon!" said Mr. Spires, starting to his feet. "Was it thee, my boy?" He did more, he
stretched out his hand; the young man clasped it eagerly, and the two stood silent, and with
a heart-felt emotion, which blended all the past into forgetfulness, and the future into a
union more sacred than esteem.

A week hence, and Simon Deg was the son-in-law of Mr. Spires. Though Mr. Spires had misunderstood
Simon, and Simon had borne the aspect of opposition to his old friend, in defense of conscientious
principle, the wife and daughter of the manufacturer had always understood him, and secretly
looked forward to some day of recognition and reunion.

Simon Deg was now the richest man in Stockington. His mother was still living to enjoy his
elevation. She had been his excellent and wise housekeeper, and she continued to occupy that
post still.

Twenty-five years afterward, when the worthy old Spires was dead, and Simon Deg had himself
two sons attained to manhood; when he had five times been mayor of Stockington, and had been
knighted on the presentation of a loyal address; still his mother was living to see it; and
William Watson, the shoemaker, was acting as a sort of orderly at Sir Simon's chief manufactory.
He occupied the lodge, and walked about, and saw that all was safe, and moving on as it should do.

It was amazing how the most plebeian name of Simon Deg had slid, under the hands of the heralds,
into the really aristocratical one of Sir Simon Degge. They had traced him up a collateral
kinship, spite of his own consciousness, to a baronet of the same name of the county of Stafford,
and had given him a coat of arms that was really astonishing.

It was some years before this, that Sir Roger Rockville had breathed his last. His title and
estate had fallen into litigation. Owing to two generations having passed without any issue
of the Rockville family except the one son and heir, the claims, though numerous, were so mingled
with obscuring circumstance, and so equally balanced, that the lawyers raised quibbles and
difficulties enough to keep the property in Chancery, till they had not only consumed all the
ready money and rental, but had made frightful inroads into the estate itself. To save the
remnant, the contending parties came to a compromise. A neighboring squire, whose grandfather
had married a Rockville, was allowed to secure the title, on condition that the rest carried
off the residuum of the estate. The woods and lands of Rockville were announced for sale!

It was at this juncture that old William Watson reminded Sir Simon Degge of a conversation
in the great grove of Rockville, which they had held at the time that Sir Roger was endeavoring
to drive the people thence.

"What a divine pleasure might this man enjoy," said Simon Deg to his humble friend, "if he
had a heart capable of letting others enjoy themselves."

"But we talk without the estate," said William Watson; "what might we do if we were tried with it?"

Sir Simon was silent for a moment; then observed that there was sound philosophy in William
Watson's remark. He said no more, but went away; and the next day announced to the astonished
old man that he had purchased the groves and the whole ancient estate of Rockville!

Sir Simon Degge, the last of a long line of paupers, was become the possessor of the noble
estate of Sir Roger Rockville, of Rockville, the last of a long line of aristocrats!

The following summer, when the hay was lying in fragrant cocks in the great meadows of Rockville,
and on the little islands in the river, Sir Simon Degge, Baronet, of Rockville--for such was
now his title-through the suggestion of a great lawyer, formerly Recorder of the Borough of
Stockington, to the crown--held a grand fête on the occasion of his coming to reside at Rockville
Hall, henceforth the family seat of the Degges. His house and gardens had all been restored
to the most consummate order. For years Sir Simon had been a great purchaser of works of art
and literature, paintings, statuary, books, and articles of antiquity, including rich armor
and precious works in ivory and gold.

First and foremost he gave a great banquet to his wealthy friends, and no man with a million
and a half is without them--and in abundance. In the second place, he gave a substantial dinner
to all his tenantry, from the wealthy farmer of five hundred acres to the tenant of a cottage.
On this occasion he said, "Game is a subject of great heart-burning and of great injustice
to the country. It was the bane of my predecessors: let us take care it is not ours. Let every
man kill the game on the land that he rents--then he will not destroy it utterly, nor allow
it to grow into a nuisance. I am fond of a gun myself, but I trust to find enough for my propensity
to the chase in my own fields and woods--if I occasionally extend my pursuit across the lands
of my tenants, it shall not be to carry off the first fruits of their feeding, and I shall
still hold the enjoyment as a favor."

We need not say that this speech was applauded most vociferously. Thirdly, and lastly, he gave
a grand entertainment to all his work people, both of the town and the country. His house and
gardens were thrown open to the inspection of the whole assembled company. The delighted crowd
admired immensely the pictures and the pleasant gardens. On the lawn, lying between the great
grove and the hall, an enormous tent was pitched, or rather a vast canvas canopy erected, open
on all sides, in which was laid a charming banquet; a military band from Stockington barracks
playing during the time. Here Sir Simon made a speech as rapturously received as that to the
farmers. It was to the effect, that all the old privileges of wandering in the grove, and angling,
and boating  on the river were restored. The inn was already rebuilt in a handsome Elizabethan
style, larger than before, and to prevent it ever becoming a fane of intemperance, he had there
posted as landlord, he hoped for many years to come, his old friend and benefactor, William
Watson. William Watson should protect the inn from riot, and they themselves the groves and
river banks from injury.

Long and loud were the applauses which this announcement occasioned. The young people turned
out upon the green for a dance, and in the evening, after an excellent tea, the whole company
descended the river to Stockington in boats and barges decorated with boughs and flowers, and
singing a song made by William Watson for the occasion, called "The Health of Sir Simon, last
and first of his Line!"

Years have rolled on. The groves and river banks and islands of Rockville are still greatly
frequented, but are never known to be injured: poachers are never known there, for four reasons.
First, nobody would like to annoy the good Sir Simon; secondly, game is not very numerous there;
thirdly, there is no fun in killing it, where there is no resistance; and fourthly, it is vastly
more abundant in other proprietors' demesnes, and it is fun to kill it there, where it is jealously
watched, and there is a chance of a good spree with the keepers. There he sees no haunts of
crowded enemies to himself or any man. No upstarts, nor envious opponents, but a past family
of human beings, all toiling for the good of their families and their country. All advancing,
some faster, some slower, to a better education, a better social condition, a better conception
of the principles of art and commerce, and a clearer recognition of their rights and duties,
and a more cheering faith in the upward tendency of humanity.

Looking on this interesting scene from his distant and quiet home, Sir Simon sees what blessings
flow--and how deeply he feels them in his own case--from a free circulation, not only of trade,
but of human relations. How this corrects the mischiefs, moral and physical, of false systems
and rusty prejudices;--and  he ponders on schemes of no ordinary beauty and beneficence yet
to reach his beloved town through them. He sees lecture halls and academies, means of sanitary
purification, and delicious recreation, in which baths, wash-houses, and airy homes figure
largely; while public walks extend all round the great industrial hive, including wood, hills,
meadow and river in their circuit of many miles. There he lived and labored; there live and
labor his sons; and there he trusts his family will continue to live and labor to all future
generations: never retiring to the fatal indolence of wealth, but aiding onward its active
and ever-expanding beneficence.

Long may the good Sir Simon live and labor to realize these views. But already in a green corner
of the pleasant churchyard of Rockville may be read this inscription on a marble headstone:--"Sacred
to the memory of Jane Deg, the mother of Sir Simon Degge, Bart., of Rockville. This stone is
erected in honor of the best of Mothers by the most grateful of sons."

       *       *       *       *       *

[From Fraser's Magazine.]

THE SPOTTED BOWER-BIRD.

FROM LEAVES FROM THE NOTE-BOOK OF A NATURALIST.

Elegant and ingenious as are the structures and collections of the satin bower-bird, the species
of the allied genus Chlamydera display still greater architectural abilities, and more extensive,
collective, and decorative powers.

The spotted bower-bird[A] is an inhabitant of the interior. Its probable range, in Mr. Gould's
opinion, is widely extended over the central portions of the Australian continent; but the
only parts in which he observed it, or from which he procured specimens, were the districts
immediately to the north of the colony of New South Wales. During his journey into the interior
he saw it in tolerable abundance at Brezi, on the river Mokai, to the northward of the Liverpool
plains; and it was also equally numerous in all the low scrubby ranges in the neighborhood
of the Namoi, as well as in the open brushes that intersect the plains on its borders. Mr.
Gould is gifted with the eye of an observer; but from the extreme shyness of its disposition,
it generally escapes the attention of ordinary travelers, and it seldom allows itself to be
approached near enough for the spectator to discern its colors. Its 'harsh, grating, scolding
note,' betrays its haunts to the intruder; but, when disturbed, it seeks the tops of the highest
trees, and, generally, flies off to another locality.

[Footnote A: Chlamydera maculala.--GOULD.]

Mr. Gould obtained his specimens most readily by watching at the water-holes where they come
to drink; and on one occasion, near the termination of a long drought, he was guided by a native
to a deep basin in a rock where water, the produce of many antecedent months, still remained.
Numbers of the spotted bower-birds, honeysuckers, and parrots, sought this welcome reservoir,
which had seldom, if ever before, reflected a white face. Mr. Gould's presence was regarded
with suspicion by the winged frequenters of this attractive spot; but while he remained lying
on the ground perfectly motionless, though close to the water, their wants overpowered their
misgivings, and they would dash down past him and eagerly take their fill, although an enormous
black snake was lying coiled upon a piece of wood near the edge of the pool. At this interesting
post Mr. Gould remained for three days. The spotted bower-birds were the most numerous of the
thirsty assemblage there congregated, and the most shy, and yet he had the satisfaction of
frequently seeing six or eight of them displaying their beautiful necks as they were perched
within a few feet of him. He states that the scanty supply of water remaining in the cavity
must soon have been exhausted by the thousands of birds that daily resorted to it, if the rains
which had so long been suspended had not descended in torrents.

Mr. Gould discovered several of the bowers of this species during his journey to the interior,
the tiniest of which, now in the National Museum, he brought to England. He found the situations
of these runs or bowers to be much varied. Sometimes he discovered them on the plains studded
with Myalls (Acacia pendula,) and sometimes in the brushes with which the lower hills were
clothed. He describes them as considerably longer, and more avenue-like, than those of the
satin bower-bird, extending in many instances to three feet in length. Outwardly they were
built with twigs, and beautifully lined with tall grasses, so disposed that their upper ends
nearly met. The decorations were very profuse, consisting of bivalve shells, skulls of small
animals, and other bones.

Evident and beautiful indications of design (continues Mr. Gould) are manifest throughout the
whole of the bower and decorations formed by this species, particularly in the manner in which
the stones are placed within the bower, apparently to keep the grasses with which it is lined
fixed firmly in their places, these stones diverge from the mouth of the run on each side so
as to form little paths, while the immense collection of decorative materials, bones, shells,
&c., are placed in a heap before the entrance of the avenue, this arrangement being the same
at both ends. In some of the larger bowers, which had evidently been resorted to for many years,
I have seen nearly half a bushel of bones, shells, &c., at each of the entrances. In some instances,
small bowers, composed almost entirely of grasses, apparently the commencement of a new place
of rendezvous, were observable. I frequently found these structures at a considerable distance
from the rivers, from the borders of which they could alone have procured the shells, and small,
round pebbly stones; their collection and transportation must, therefore, be a task of great
labor and difficulty. As these birds feed almost entirely upon seeds and fruits, the shells
and bones cannot have been collected  for any other purpose than ornament; besides, it is only
those which have been bleached perfectly white in the sun, or such as have been roasted by
the natives, and by this means whitened, that attract their attention. I fully ascertained
that these runs, like those of the satin bower-bird, formed the rendezvous of many individuals;
for, after secreting myself for a short space of time near one of them, I killed two males
which I had previously seen running through the avenue.

The plumage of this species is remarkable. A rich brown pervades the crown of the head, the
ear-coverts and the throat, each feather being bordered by a narrow black line; and, on the
crown, the feathers are small and tipped with silver gray. The back of the neck is crossed
by a beautiful, broad, light, rosy pink band of elongated feathers, so as to form a sort of
occipital crest. The wings, tail, and upper surface, are deep brown, every feather of the back,
rump, scapularies, and secondaries, having a large round spot of full buff at the tip. Primaries
slightly tipped with white. All the tail-feathers with buffy white terminations. Under parts
grayish white. Flank-feathers zigzagged with faint transverse light brown lines. Bill and feet
dusky brown. At the corner of the mouth the bare, thick, fleshy, prominent skin, is of a pinky
flesh colour, and the irides are dark brown.

The rosy frill adorns the adults of both sexes: but the young male and female of the years
have it not.

Another species, the great bower-bird,[B] was probably the architect of the bowers found by
Captain Grey during his Australian rambles, and which interested him greatly in consequence
of the doubts entertained by him whether they were the works of a bird or of a quadruped,--the
inclination of his mind being that their construction was due to the four-footed animal. In
one of these bowers, the most remote from the sea of those discovered by Captain Grey, was
a heap of the stones of some fruit that evidently had been rolled therein. He never saw any
animal in or near these bowers; but the abundant droppings of a small species of kangaroo close
to them, induced him to suppose them to be the work of some quadruped.

[Footnote B: Chlamydora nuchalis.]

Here, then, we have a race of birds whose ingenuity is not merely directed to the usual; ends
of existence, self-preservation, and the continuation of the species, but to the elegancies
and amusements of life. Their bowers are their ball and assembly rooms; and we are very much
mistaken if they are not, like places of meeting,

  For whispering lovers made.

The male satin bower-bird, in the garden at the Regent's Park, is indefatigable in his assiduity
toward the female; and his winning ways to coax her into the bower conjure up the notion that
the soul of some Damon in the course of his transmigration, has found its way into his elegant
form. He picks up a brilliant feather, flits about with it before her, and when he has caught
her eye adds it to the decorations.

  Haste, my Nanette, my lovely maid,
  Haste to the bower thy swain has made.

No enchanted prince could act the deferential lover with more delicate or graceful attention.
Poor fellow, the pert, intruding sparrows plague him abominably; and really it becomes almost
an affair of police that some measures should be adopted for their exclusion. He is subject
to fits, too, and suddenly, without the least apparent warning, falls senseless, like an epileptic
patient; but presently recovers, and busies himself about the bower. When he has induced the
female to enter it, he seems greatly pleased; alters the disposition of a feather or a shell,
as if hoping that the change may meet her approbation; and looks at her as she sits coyly under
the overarching twigs, and then at the little arrangement which he has made, and then at her
again, till one could almost fancy that one hears him breathe a sigh. He is still in his transition
dress, and has not yet donned his full Venetian suit of black.

In their natural state, the satin bower-birds associate in autumn in small parties; and Mr.
Gould states that they may then often be seen on the ground near the sides of rivers, particularly
where the brush feathers the descending bank down to the water's edge. The male has a loud
liquid call; and both sexes frequently utter a harsh, gutteral note, expressive of surprise
and displeasure.

Geffrey Chaucer, in his argument to The Assemblie of Foules, relates that, "All foules are
gathered before Nature on St. Valentine's day, to chose their makes. A formell egle beyng beloved
of three tercels, requireth a yeeres respite to make her choise: upon this triall, Qui bien
aime tard oublie-'He that loveth well is slow to forget.'"

Edmund Spenser, with due reverence for

   Dan Chauser (well of English undefiled),

has indeed done his best to supply the defect,[C] and has told us that

  Cambello's sister was fair Canacee,
  That was the learnedst lady in her days,
  Well seem in every science that mote be,
  And every secret work of nature's ways,
  In witty riddles, and in wise soothsays,
  In power of herbs and tunes of beasts and birds:

but we learn from him no more of the ring than 'Dan Chaucer' tells us:--

  The vertue of this ring, if ye woll here,
  Is this, that if she list it for to were
  Upon her thombe, or in her purse it bere,
  There is no foule that fleeth under heven
  That she no shall understand his steven,[D]
  And know his meaning openly and plaine,
  And answer him in his language againe:

as Canace does in her conversation with the falcon in The Squires Tale. Nor is the 'vertue'
of the ring confined to bird-intelligence, for the knight who came on the 'steed of brasse,'
adds,--

  And every grasse that groweth upon root
  She shall well know to whom it will do boot,
  And be his wounds never so deep and wide.

But we must return from these realms of fancy to a country hardly less wonderful; for Australia
presents, in the realities of its quadrupedal forms, a scene that might well pass for one of
enchantment.

[Footnote C: Fairy Queen, book iv. cant. 2, et seq.]

[Footnote D: Sound.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The French Society of Geography have just given their grand gold medal to two brothers, Antoine
and Arnaud d'Abadie, for the progress which geography has received from their travels in Abyssinia,
which were begun in 1837 and finished in 1848. This period they spent in exploring together,
not only Abyssinia, but the whole eastern part of Africa. Their enterprise was wholly at their
own expense, and was undertaken from the love of science and adventure.

       *       *       *       *       *

The French Government are now publishing at Algiers the History of the Berbers, by Ibn Chaldun,
the greatest of Arabian historians. It is printed in quarto form, with the types of the National
Printing Establishment, sent from Paris for the purpose. The French translation will appear
as soon as the second volume of the original, which is now in press, is completed.

       *       *       *       *       *

[From Fraser's Magazine.]

MADAME DE POMPADOUR.

In the gallery of the Louvre at Paris there is, or was some few years ago, a crayon drawing
by La Tour, which represents Madame de Pompadour in all the pride and luster of her early beauty.
The marchioness is seated near a table covered with books and papers, among which may be distinguished
Montesquieu's Spirit of Laws and the Encyclopædia, two of the remarkable works which appeared
during her reign of favor. An open album shows an engraving of Gay, chiseling some portrait
of Louis XV., or his mistress. The marchioness is represented with her hair slightly powdered;
she is clad in an open, flowered brocade robe, and wears red-heeled shoes, of a delicacy, as
regards size, worthy of an Oriental foot. In this portrait there is much to admire: the neck,
which is slender and well-shaped, springs most gracefully from the shoulders; the head, which
is also admirably proportioned, is a model of feminine beauty; the brow is lofty and severe;
the lips, slightly compressed, express at the same time decision and irony; the eyes are of
a most vivid brilliancy, and the nose is perfection itself: in short, there reigns throughout
every lineament of this most striking countenance an air of nobility, and even of dignity,
which qualifies in some measure the accounts left us by history of the share she bore in the
petits soupers of Versailles, the masked balls of the Hôtel de Ville, and the thousand other
orgies got up for the entertainment of the most dissolute monarch of (at that period) one of
the most dissolute courts of Europe.

The history of Madame de Pompadour is not generally known in all its particulars, though much
has been written of her by persons of every shade of opinion. Some have exalted her virtues,
while others have multiplied her crimes. Both parties are right, and both wrong. A courtier,
and a man seeking to be revenged, are not historians when they write. With a little patience,
and by a careful study of the writers of the eighteenth century, we are enabled to seize here
and there a faithful trait of this extraordinary, yet most fascinating woman, and by diligently
sifting conflicting opinions arrive at something approaching the truth. That Madame de Pompadour
was a woman endowed with great talents, many virtues, and as many vices, is not to be denied;
that she employed those talents in general for her country's good we think is equally true,
though many writers have unjustly contended that all the defeats and reverses of France are
to be traced to the influence exercised by her over the mind of Louis XV. Beyond a doubt the
ruling passion of her heart was ambition, and yet even this passion, which according to many
writers of her day was boundless, she kept so skillfully concealed from all her intimates,
that not one of the many courtiers, philosophers, and men of letters, who thronged her antechambers--with
the exception, perhaps, of the Abbé de Bernis, of whom more anon--was ever enabled to discover
the secrets of that heart, which, in the words of a writer of the time, "she ever kept closely
hidden beneath an eternal smile."

Madame de Pompadour was born in Paris in the year 1720. She herself always said, in 1722. But
this is of slight consequence, as her true father was the Fermier-général, Lenorman de Tourneheim.
This individual having taken a fancy to Poisson's daughter when she was quite an infant, took
her to his house, and brought her up as his own child. Having from her earliest years displayed
quite passion for music and drawing, the first masters of the day were engaged by Lenorman
de Tourneheim for his adopted child. Under a diligent course of study the little Jeanne Antoinette
made rapid strides toward perfection in the arts she loved, and her intellectual acquirements
were vaunted by all who knew her. Fontenelle, Voltaire, Duclos, and Crebillon, who, in their
character of beaux esprits, had the entrée of the house, spread everywhere abroad throughout
the fashionable world the praises of her beauty, her grace, and her talents.

Madame de Pompadour offered in her person the model of a woman, at the same time beautiful
in the strict acceptation of the word, and simply pretty. The lines of her features possessed
all the purity of one of Raphael's creations, but there it must be said the resemblance ceased;
the spirit which animated these features was of the world, worldly: in short, it was the true
spirit of a Parisian woman. All that gives brilliancy, charm, and play to the physiognomy she
possessed in the happiest degree. Not a single court lady could at that period boast an air
at the same time so noble and yet so coquettish, features so imposing and yet so delicate and
playful, or a figure at once so elegant and yet so supple and undulating: her mother used always
to say that a king alone was worthy of her daughter. Jeanne, it is said, had at in early age
what might be called the presentiment of the throne, at first on account of this frequently-expressed
opinion of her mother's, and afterward because she fancied she loved the king. "She owned to
me," says Voltaire, in his Memoirs, "that she had a s[*illegible] presentiment that she would
be loved by [*illegible] king, and that she had herself a violent inclination for him." There
are certain [*illegible] in life in which destiny permits itself for a moment, as it were,
to be divined. [* illegible] those who have succeeded in climbing [*illegible] rugged mountain
of human vanities [*illegible ] that from their earliest youth certain visions and presentiments
have ever warned them of their future glory.

But how was she to attain to this throne of France, the object of her ambition? This was a
difficult question to solve. In the meanwhile she familiarized herself with what might be considered
the life of a queen, a part which, it must be allowed, she could play to admiration. Beautiful,
witty, intellectual, ever admired and ever listened to, she soon beheld at her feet all the
courtiers of her father's fortune; she gathered around her, consequently, a brilliant crowd
of poets, artists, and philosophers, over whom she reigned with all the dignity of majesty.

The Fermier-général had a nephew named Lenorman d'Etioles, a young man of Amiable character,
and with the feelings and habits of a gentleman. This was the reputed heir of the immense wealth
of the old Fermier-général, according to the established laws, though Jeanne had on her side
also some claims to a share of the property. A very simple means was however devised to prevent
all after litigation, namely, by arranging a marriage between the two young people. Jeanne,
as we have already seen, loved the king, and she married d'Etioles without her feelings in
this respect undergoing any change. Versailles was her horizon, the goal to which she aspired.
D'Etioles, it is said, became deeply enamored of his young bride; but this passion, which amounted
almost to fanaticism, never touched her heart. To use her own words, she "accepted him with
resignation, as a misfortune which was not to last long."

The hôtel of the new-married couple was organized upon a lordly footing; the best society in
Paris was there to be found, for all those whose company was worth having deserted the salons
of the fashionable world for those of Madame d'Etioles. Never until then had such a lavish
display of luxury been seen. The young bride hoped by these means to make a noise at court,
and thus pique the curiosity of the king. The days passed in fêtes and entertainments of every
kind. The celebrated comedians of the day, the popular poets, artists, foreigners of distinction,
all had ready access to the splendid mansion of Lenorman d'Etioles, of which the mistress was
the life and ornament; every one visited there, in short, except the king.

Ever since the celebrated réunions of the Hôtel de Rambouillet, there have always been in France
a succession of circles of beaux esprits, presided over by some queen of fashion. Louis XIV.
hated these réunions, saying that the court was spread abroad into all [*illegible] hôtels
of Paris. In fact, for many, the [*illegible ] of the Duchesse de Main or of the [*illegible
]ise de Lambert, of Madame de Tencin [*illegible] Madame Géoffrin, possessed far greater [*illegible
]ons than the already superannuated [*illegible ] of Versailles. The French Revolution [*illegible
] its rise in these very circles, for in them they laughed a little at the great powers of
the earth, and there philosophy and liberty were allowed elbow-room. Thus, at Madame d'Etioles'
might be seen old Fontenelle, who believed in nothing, not even in his own heart; Voltaire,
still young, and armed with the keen weapons of his ready wit, prepared to make war upon those
whose reign was of this world, above all upon the Jesuits; Montesquieu and Maupertuis, born
skeptics and mockers; along with many others of a kindred spirit who had beheld the decline
of royalty and religion, when Louis XIV., in the latter years of his reign, had permitted Scarron's
widow to make religion fashionable, by cloaking France with the mask of hypocritical piety--a
mask soon, however, to be torn aside by Philippe of Orleans in the wild saturnalia of the Regency.
The Abbé de Bernis was also a constant visitor at the house of Madame d'Etioles; he was, in
the parlance of the time, the Abbé de la Maison--it is true he had no other benefice--but little
thought then, either the abbé of the house or the mistress of the house, that within ten years
from that time they would reign over France as absolute ministers. There was one other individual
of this brilliant circle worthy of a passing notice, and this was an amiable and simple-minded
poet, of good appearance and the best temper in the world, named Gentil Bernard.[A] Madame
d'Etioles used to pet him like a spoiled child. Some said he was her lover. However that may
be, Madame de Pompadour, who, whether she had or had not a secret penchant for the poet, never
forgot her old friends, procured for him, as soon as she came into power, the appointment of
librarian to the king at the château de Choisy, where she built him, at her own expense, a
little cottage ornée, named by the poets of the time, the Parnassus of the French Anacreon.
This appointment was a complete sinecure, for we know that the king never opened a book, and
we are equally assured that Bernard never put his foot inside the library.

[Footnote A: Pierre Bernard, nicknamed Gentil Bernard by Voltaire[1] was born at Grenoble about
the same time as Louis XV. "It is strange," said Madame de Pompadour later, "that two lovers
should be born for me during the same season--a king and a poet." Bernard ever refused all
favors, and was singularly devoid of ambition. "What can I do for you, my dear poet?" Madame
de Pompadour is reported to have said on her coming into Power. Bernard contented himself with
kissing the hand of the marchioness. "Go to," returned she, "you will never get on in the world."

  [Footnote 1: This nickname was given in a poetical invitation to
  a supper-party at Madame Duchatelet's, sent by Voltaire to the poet:

    "Au nom du Pinde et de Cythère
      Gentil Bernard est averti,
      Que l'Art d'Aimer doit Samedi
    Venir souper chez l'Art de Plaire."]]

We have already named the Abbé, afterward Cardinal, de Bernis; and as he was the only individual
who ever succeeded in being admitted into the entire confidence of the royal favorite, a brief
notice of his birth, and rise and fall at court, may not be altogether out of place, so closely
linked for many years were his fortunes with those of Madame de Pompadour.

Joachim de Pierres, abbé de Bernis, was born at Saint-Marcel, near Narbonne, in the month of
May, 1715. His family, which was of the most ancient noblesse, was allied to the king through
the house of Rohan; a circumstance, however, which did not prevent it being one of the poorest
in the kingdom. As his relatives had nothing to give Joachim, they made him an abbé. Like Bernard,
he came when very young to Paris, confiding in his lucky planet, smiling on every one, and
reaping a plentiful harvest of smiles in return. He was then a handsome young man, with a bright
eye and an animated mouth. In figure he was herculean, and here we find, in contradiction of
Buffon's saying, that the style was not the man, no more than it was with Bernard, who was
also of large stature.

Joachim passed the winter at Saint-Sulpice, but, like Boufflers a little later, far from singing
the Canticles, he employed his time in the more mundane occupation of scribbling love-songs.
At the end of the winter he was appointed vicar in a little town of his native department.
"Vicar!" said Joachim; "I'll not disturb myself for such a trifle." Shortly afterward he was
nominated Abbé de Bernis; but not a step would he budge from the capital. In Paris then he
remained, penniless it is true, but without a care or thought for the future, and full of confidence
in his lucky planet--a confidence which, it must be said, was not misplaced. His acquaintance
with Madame d'Etioles began through an intrigue which he had with a certain marchande des modes,
who worked for the future favorite. Having perceived the young girl one night at the theater
in company with her lover, Madame d'Etioles summoned her the following morning to her house,
and in the course of conversation inquired if that handsome young man she had with her at the
theater was her cousin.

"No, madame," replied the milliner; "he is my lover."

"Ah, indeed! he is your lover is he? And what does he do?"

"No great things, madame; he makes verses."

"A maker of verses!" said Madame d'Etioles; "that is amusing. Do not forget my cap, and tell
your young poet to come and see me."

In consequence of this invitation Bernis called on Madame d'Etioles, who Received him with
all the graces in the world, and from that hour commenced a friendship which lasted for many
years, and was the origin of De Bernis' future advancement in the world.

Despite his great acquaintances, our abbé was none the richer; but he laughed gaily at his
poverty, and waited for better times. According to all accounts the garret which he inhabited
was in a wretchedly dilapidated condition; his furniture consisted of a "bad bed covered with
some mules' saddle-cloths, which M. de Ferriol had brought from Constantinople, a rickety table
covered with books and papers and faded bouquets, and an old worm-eaten arm-chair." Our abbé's
purse was no better garnished than his lodgings; and so well-known was this fact in the world,
that Senac de Meilhan tells us, that "when the Abbé de Bernis supped out some one of the party
always gave him a crown to pay his coach-hire. At first this gift had been invented as a pleasantry,
on the abbé invariably refusing to stay to supper, alleging as an excuse that he had no carriage;
but it was a pleasantry which continued for some time."

In society, however, De Bernis was a general favorite, and was everywhere Welcomed with open
arms. They doated on Bernard, and they doated also on on Bernis. Voltaire wrote in verse to
both, Duclos spoke of their wit, Helvetius gave them suppers, and the women did their best
to spoil them.

From Cardinal de Fleury, however, our abbé received a rebuff. Having, in order to humor his
relative the Princess de Rohan, who had lately taken him by the hand, applied to the minster
for a convent, the latter sternly replied,--

"Monsieur l'Abbé, your debaucheries render you unworthy of the favors of the church. As long
as I remain in power you shall obtain nothing."

"Well, Monseigneur," replied De Bernis, "I'll wait."

This repartee was an event; it was repeated and applauded everywhere until it reached the ears
of royalty itself.

On Madame de Pompadour coming to power, the Princess de Rohan deigned to write to her in behalf
of her dear abbé. "Madame la Marquis," she wrote, "you have not forgotten M. l'Abbé de Bernis;
you will deign, I trust, to do something for him, he is worthy of your favors." Apropos of
this letter, Madame de Pompadour wrote the following to some minister of the day: "I forgot,
my dear Nigaud, to ask you what you have done for the Abbé de Bernis; write me word, I beg
of you, as I shall see him on Sunday." Like Voltaire, Madame de Pompadour had the mania of
nicknaming her friends and acquaintances; even the king himself figured more than once in her
grotesque vocabulary.[B]

[Footnote B: She always called De Bernis her pigeon pattu (splay-footedpigeon--on account of
his large feet and his love-songs). Voltaire had previously nicknamed him Babet le bouquetiére,
at first because the abbé always introduced flowers into his poetry; afterward, on account
of the resemblance he bore to a flower girl who used to sell bouquets at the doors of the Opera.]

Madame de Pompadour presented her dear poet to the king, with a smile which so charmed Louis
XV. that he offered De Bernis, in the first instance, an apartment in the Tuileries, and a
pension of 1500 livres a year; and so cleverly did the future cardinal play his cards, by insinuating
himself into the good graces of both the king and his mistress, that, after a sojourn of two
years at the château, he was appointed ambassador from the court of France at Venice.

But it would appear that the Queen of the Adriatic did not suit the inclinations of our abbé;
he sighed for Versailles, and the petits soupers of Louis XV. After a very short sojourn in
Venice he demanded his recall from Madame de Pompadour, and on his return composed an epistle
to his fair protectress, the opening lines of which we give as a fair specimen of his powers
of versification:--

  On avait dit que l'enfant do Cythère
  Prés du Lignon avait perdu le jour;
  Mais je l'ai vu dans le bois solitaire
  Où va rever la jeune Pompadour.
  Il etait seul; le flambeau qui l'éclair
  Ne brillait plus; mais les près d'alentour
  L'onde, les bois, tout annonçait l'amour.

For the space of ten years the Abbé de Bernis was the shadow of Madame de Pompadour; he followed
her everywhere, sometimes even too far. Louis XV. would meet him in all parts of the palace,
in the private as well as the state apartments, which would make him say sometimes,--"Where
are you going, Monsieur l'Abbé?" Our abbé would bow and smile, but say nothing. True to his
character of abbé, he would listen at all the doors, saying that the chateau of the Tuileries
was for him but one huge confessional. He ended, however, by knowing all things, and by sitting
in council with the king and his mistress; and a precious trio it must be owned they made.

But evil times were coming on our abbé. In the ministry he was assailed by showers of chansons
and epigrams. The Count de Tressan, above all, overwhelmed him with a violent satire. He could
no longer hold his ground. Every one began to grow tired of him, even the fair president of
the council; this was the coup de grace. The Duc de Choiseul, after replacing him in the good
graces of Madame de Pompadour, succeeded also to his portfolio as minister. As some compensation,
however, they gave him the cardinal's hat; a circumstance which elicited from some wit of the
day the following couplet:--

  On dirait que Son Eminence
  N'eut le chapeau de cardinal
  Que pour tirer sa révérence.

Shortly afterward he was appointed Archbishop of Alby; but, according to custom, he never appeared
in his diocese. In 1769 he departed for Rome, being nominated ambassador at the conclave for
the nomination of Clement XIV., that priest so gay, so gentle, and so witty, who has written
that sad people are like shrubs which never flower. Pope and cardinal understood each other
admirably well. Our cardinal never returned to France; he had found in Rome a second fatherland,
as sweet to his old ago as France had been to his youth. He inhabited a magnificent palace,
which was for a length of time the hospitable refuge for all French travelers. All had ready
welcome, from the humble priest and poor artist to the Princes and princesses of the blood
royal. To use his own words,--"He kept an auberge of France in a square of Europe." He died
in 1794, faithful to his God and to his king, and bitterly denouncing the French Revolution,
which had despoiled him of his half million of francs per annum, and had swept disdainfully
away all the pretty artificial flowers of his most artificial poetry. He died solitary and
poor,--a strong contrast to the style in which he had lived. But to return.

Madame d'Etioles passed in the eyes of the world as a perfect model of a virtuous wife. She
swore eternal fidelity to her husband, unless Louis XV. should fall in love with her,--a reservation
her husband was the first to laugh at. At first this strange condition was spoken of as an
excellent joke in the house; from thence it spread abroad, and finally reached Versailles.
But the king, wishing to joke in return, contented himself by saving,--"I should like very
much to see this husband."

M. d'Etioles possessed an abandoned château in the forest of Senart; Madame d'Etioles having
learned that the king frequently hunted in the forest, persuaded her husband to have the chateau
newly furnished, and put into a habitable state, alleging that the physicians had recommended
a change of air for her vapors. The husband, suspecting nothing, had the château re-furnished
an decorated in the most superb style. Once installed in her new abode, Madame d'Etioles gave
orders for the building of three or four carriages of a most fairy-like lightness and elegance
of form, in which she might drive away her vapors. According to her expectations, she frequently
met the king in the forest; at first Louis XV. passed her by without bestowing the slightest
attention, either on her or her equipage: afterward he remarked her or her equipage; afterward
he remarked her horses,--"What a pretty phaeton!" said he, on meeting her for the third time.
At length he remarked the lady herself, but it was merely to bestow a passing remark upon her
beauty.

Madame d'Etioles, however, was not to be repelled; she continued to pass before the eyes of
the royal sportsman: "sometimes as a goddess from Olympus, sometimes as an earthly queen; at
one time she would appear in an azure robe seated in a rose-colored phaeton, at another in
a robe of rose color in a phaeton of pale blue."[C]

[Footnote C: Soulavie, Mèmoires Historiques de la Cour de France pendant le faveur de Madame
de Pompadour.]

In after days, Madame de Pompadour recalling to mind all these follies--serious though for
her--said to the Prince de Soubise--"I can imagine myself reading a strange book; my life is
an impossible romance, I cannot believe in it."

At Etioles, private theatricals were the fashion; Madame d'Etioles was the Clairon, the Camargo,
and the Dangeville of the troop, which counted among its members some of the most illustrious
personages of the day. Marshal de Richelieu, who was to be found wherever gallantry flourished,
was an assiduous and constant spectator at these réunions. Madame d'Etioles, it is said, endeavored
on more than one occasion to entice the king behind the scenes; but Louis, kept constantly
in view by Madame de Chateauroux, never once left the royal box.

Two summers thus passed away without Madame d'Etioles obtaining aught from the king save a
cold and distant glance, or a passing word or two; and this, for a woman of her ambition, was
not sufficient. She returned to Paris at the close of the summer season, determined to change
once more her plan of attack. A good opening was now before her, for Madame de Chateauroux
was dead, the throne of the favorite vacant; not an hour was to be lost, for, with Louis XV.
who could tell how soon a successor might be appointed?

The wished-for opportunity at length presented itself. In the month of December, 1744, a series
of magnificent fêtes were given at the Hôtel de Ville; the women were masqued. In the course
of the evening Madame d'Etioles succeeded in approaching the king,--

"Sire," she said, "you must explain to me, if you please, a strange dream. I dreamt that I
was seated on a throne for an entire day; I do not affirm that this throne was the throne of
France, yet I dare assert that it was a throne of purple, of gold, and of diamonds: this dream
torments me--it is at once the joy and torment of my life. Sire, for mercy's sake, interpret
it for me."

"The interpretation is very simple," replied the king; "but, in the first place it is absolutely
necessary that that velvet masque should fall."

"You have seen me."

"Where?"

"In the forest of Senart."

"Then," said the king, "you can divine that we should like to see you again."

About a month or two after this interview, according to some biographers, Madame d'Etioles,
being determined by a coup de main to attain her grand object, namely, the securing a permanent
footing at Versailles, arrived one morning at the palace in a state of violent agitation, and
demanded an audience of the king. One of the gentleman ushers, a certain M. de Bridge, who
had been a guest at Etioles during the festivities of the preceding season, conducted her into
the presence of Louis XV.

"Sire," she exclaimed, "I am lost; my husband knows my glory and my misfortune. I come to demand
a refuge at your hands. If you shelter me not from his anger he will kill me."

From that hour she took up her residence at Versailles to quit it no more.

We know that Louis XV. passed his life in a state of constant lassitude and ennui, from which
it was almost impossible to arouse him; indolence, indeed, may be said to have been the predominant
trait in his character: he hated politics and political matters, and all allusions to state
affairs were most irksome to him.

"Your people suffer, sire," said the Duke de Choiseul to him one day, after a long political
harangue.

"Je m'ennuie!" replied the king.

By skillfully and constantly varying the amusements of her royal lover, with hunting-parties,
promenades, fêtes, spectacles, and petits soupers, Madame d'Etioles was enabled to strengthen
her empire over the heart of Louis XV., by making him feel how necessary she had become to
his happiness. One striking advantage she had over her predecessors, and this was, the art
she possessed of being able to metamorphose herself at all hours of the day. No one could better
vary the play of her physiognomy than Madame de Pompadour. At one time she would appear languishing
and sentimental as a madonna; at another, lively, gay, and coquettish, as a Spanish peasant
girl. She possessed also, in a marvelous degree, the gift of tears: none knew better than she
did when to weep, or how many tears it was necessary to shed. As a poet of the time has said,
"She wept with so much art that she was enabled to give to her tears the value of pearls."
Those who had seen her in the morning, superb, imperious, a queen in all the splendor of power,
would find her in the evening, gay, whimsical, capricious, presiding over one of these petits
soupers with all the exuberant and madcap gayety of an actress after the theater. The Abbé
Soulavie, who saw her often, has left us a well-studied portrait of the favorite;--

"In addition to the charms of a beautiful and animated countenance, Madame de Pompadour possessed
also, in an eminent degree, the art of transforming her features; and each new combination,
equally beautiful, was another result of the deep study she had made of the affinity between
her mind and her physiognomy. Without in the least altering her position, her countenance would
become a perfect Proteus."

With intuitive tact, Madame de Pompadour very quickly perceived, that in order to amuse a king
who took neither interest nor pleasure in arts and letters, other and more material enjoyments
were necessary. She commenced, then, by transforming herself into an actress. The king was
there like a wearied spectator of life; she felt, that in order to interest and enliven him,
it was necessary to diversify frequently her character, and the spirit of her character. Twenty
times a day would she change her dress, her appearance, and even her manner of walking and
speaking; passing from gayety to gravity, from songs and smiles to love and sentiment. With
syren-like voice, and a heart as light as the bird of the air, she would invent a thousand
graceful blandishments for the amusement of her royal lover. Her beauty, which was marvelous,
served her well in all these metamorphoses. She dressed, too, with exquisite art. Among the
many costumes which she has invented, we may cite one which made quite a furore in its day,
and this was the negligé a la Pompadour; a robe in the form of a Turkish vest, which designed
with peculiar grace the contour of the figure. She would frequently pass entire mornings at
her toilet in company with Louis XV., who would stand by giving his opinion and advice respecting
the different costumes she adopted. The king, however, grew tired at length of having but one
comedian. In vain would she disguise herself sometimes as a farm-girl, sometimes as a shepherdess;
at one time as a peasant-girl, at another as a nun, in order to surprise him, or rather, to
allow herself to be surprised by him in some one or other of the many turnings and windings
of the park of Versailles. The king had at first been charmed by the novelty of the amusement,
but by degrees he discovered that it was always one and the same woman under a thousand different
disguises.

Perceiving that the king began to grow tired of this species of comedy, she had a theater constructed
in the medal-room of the palace, she herself nominating the actors and actresses whom she considered
worthy of performing with her on a stage which was to have but the king and a few favorite
courtiers for audience. The Duc de Vallière was appointed stage-manager and director; for prompter
they took an abbé, most probably the Abbé de Bernis; the company consisted of the Duc d'Orleans,
the Duc d'Agen, the Duc de Nivernais, the Duc de Duras, the Comte de Maillebois, the Duc de
Coigny, the Marquis d'Entraigues, the Duchesse de Brancas, the Comtesse d'Estrade, and Madame
d'Angevilliers. The theater opened with a pièce de circonstance, by Dufresny the poet, entitled
Le Mariage fait et rompu, in allusion to the marriage of Madame de Pompadour with M. d'Etioles.
The little troupe commenced with comedy, but soon descended to opera and ballet. In song and
dance, as well as in the representation of the passions, Madame de Pompadour was the only actress
of real talent. In the characters of peasant-girls she was unsurpassed; but her chef d'oeuvre
was the part of Collette in Rousseau's Devin de Village, which she played with a naïveté and
tenderness that won all hearts.

Nothing was more difficult than to gain admission to this theater of dukes and duchesses, the
tickets of admission for which were given by the king alone; and it must be said that Louis
showed himself a much more rigorous janitor of his theater than he was of his palace: consequently
it was no slight favor for Voltaire, who had for a length of time aspired to the pleasures
of Versailles, to see his Enfant Prodigue played on the boards of the court theater. Voltaire
had, like all men the weakness of wishing to govern the state; intoxicated with literary successes,
he now aspired to political honors. He hoped to become minister or ambassador through the favor
of Madame de Pompadour; and with a little more tact he might have become ambassador, minister,
or even cardinal, had he wished it, but at the very moment when he fancied he had attained
the object of his ambition, he lost it forever by writing the famous lines, commencing,--

  Pompadour, vous embellisez
  La cour, le Parnasse, et Cythère.

These verses, as we know, provoked a little remonstrance from the queen and her daughters:
all was lost for Voltaire, despite the goodwill of Madame de Pompadour, who, for the rest,
seeing that the cause was a bad one, cared not to risk her own favor by imprudent attempts.
Voltaire never pardoned the marchioness her lukewarm intercession; and like a true poet, revenged
himself by a succession of madrigals, chansons, and rhymes, without number,--all leveled, though
in a playful way, at the head of the favorite.

Duclos and Rousseau were more severe. Duclos, fully impressed with the idea that he was a great
historian, as impartial as he was passionless, judged her harshly. He feared passing for a
courtier, and he was unjust, She bad attempted to attach Rousseau to herself; but the proud
Genevese Republican wrote her a letter which cut short all further negotiations.[D] She always
esteemed him, however, in a high degree. One day, when Marshal de Mirepoix, in the course of
conversation, advised her not to trouble her head about that owl, she replied,--

"It is an owl, certainly, but it is Minerva's owl."

[Footnote D: Madame,--I had fancied for a moment that it was through
error that your messenger had remitted me one hundred louis for copies
which are charged but twelve francs. He has undeceived me. Permit me to
undeceive you in my turn. My savings enable me at present to enjoy a
revenue of about 540 livres, all deductions made. My work brings me in
annually a sum almost equal to this amount; I have then a considerable
superfluity; I employ it to the best of my power, though I scarcely give
any alms. If, contrary to all appearances, age or infirmities should some
day incapacitate me from following my usual occupations, I have a friend.
                                       J. J. ROUSSEAU
PARIS, August 18, 1762.]

Madame de Pompadour, with the design of still further strengthening her power at court, conceived
the idea of calling in the powers of the Church to her aid. The Prince de Soubise, who was
one of her most devoted courtiers, took upon himself the task of procuring an indulgent Jesuit,
who would consent to confess and absolve her from all the sins she had committed at court.
Père de Sacy, the priest alluded to, had, though a Jesuit, preserved in some sort the habits
and feelings of a man of the world; he could, when it suited his purpose, be of his century,
and would occasionally laugh a little at the severities of his order. To him, then, the Prince
do Soubise proceeded. At first he showed himself rather restive.

"Recollect," said the prince to him, "from the confessional of the marchioness to the confessional
of the king there is but a step."

Père de Sacy could not resist the temptation of such an attractive position; he went to the
marchioness. Madame de Pompadour, proud of having for a confessor a man who had been appointed
Procureur-gènèral of the Missions, received him most graciously. She had other reasons also
for seeking to conciliate the Jesuit--her principal one was this:--Up to this time the Jesuitical
party that had risen against her at Versailles, the queen, the dauphin, Père Griffet, Cardinal
de Luynes, the Bishop of Verdun, and M. de Nicolai, had hoped to drive her from court as a
miscreant. Now, once declared worthy of heaven by a Jesuit of such high standing as Père de
Sacy, would she not become in some sort inviolable and sacred? With these designs, then, she
put in force all her arts of seduction against her confessor; never did she display more grace,
wit, or beauty. Père de Sacy, who allowed himself to be taken captive unresistingly by the
battery of charms thus brought to bear upon him, visited her seven or eight times to speak
of confession, without, however, coming to any conclusion upon the subject. As the good city
of Paris had not at the moment any matter of graver importance wherewith to occupy its attention,
it began to grow witty on the subject of this confession; a thousand chansons were composed
upon the father confessor and his fair penitent. Piron arrived one evening at the Cafè Procope,
exclaiming that he had news from Versailles.

"Well," inquired some one, "has the marchioness confessed?"

"No," replied Piron; "Madame de Pompadour cannot agree with Père de Sacy as to the style of
confession."

The following day there was a great uproar among the Jesuits; the procureur-général of the
missions was summoned before their Council of Ten, and was obliged to confess himself. He received
a severe reprimand from the superior of the order, and, as the price of his absolution, was
commanded to refuse his counsels to the marchioness, and to excuse himself in the best manner
he could for his previous delay.

Père de Sacy accordingly presented himself for the last time before Madame de Pompadour, and
the following conversation took place:--

"We cannot grant you, madame," began the holy father, "the absolution you desire; your sojourn
at court far from your husband, the public scandal relative to the favor which it is alleged
the king accords you, does not permit of your approaching the holy table. The priest who would
sanction such a proceeding, in place of absolving you, would pronounce a double condemnation--yours
and his own; whilst the public, accustomed to judge harshly the conduct of the great, would
confirm the sentence beyond appeal. You have testified to me, madame, that you are desirous
of fulfilling the duties of a good Christian; but example is the first of these duties, and
in order to obtain and merit absolution, your first proceeding must be to return to M. d'Etioles,
or at least quit the court and seek, by penitence and charity, to repair the sins you have
committed against that society whose laws you have outraged, and which, declares itself scandalized
at your separation, from your husband."

Madame de Pompadour heard these words with the calmness and immobility of a statue; but as
soon as the priest had terminated she burst forth,--

"Père de Sacy," she exclaimed, violently, "you are a fool, an impostor, a true Jesuit. Do you
understand me? You have sought to enjoy a triumph over me by witnessing the state of embarrassment
in which you imagined I was placed; you would gladly, you and yours, see me far from the king:
but, poor short-sighted mortals that you are! Know that I am here as powerful as you imagine
me weak and tottering; and in spite of you, in spite of all the Jesuits in the world, I shall
remain at court, whilst you and your pack will not only be banished from court, but driven
ignominiously out of the kingdom."

From that hour the fall of the Jesuits was decreed. The holy fathers imagined that the marchioness,
like Madame de Chateauroux, was but the queen of a day; but they were mistaken. To do them
justice, it must be allowed they believed that nothing was to be feared from such an enemy;
for it is very certain that had they seen the power of this woman, who had all the firmness
and decision of character of a man, or rather of a revengeful woman, they would, beyond a doubt,
have permitted her to approach the holy table, or even have canonized her had she been desirous
of the honor.

Madame de Pompadour was born with noble instincts; her bitterest enemies have never denied
that she possessed the most refined taste in all matters connected with the arts or letters.
She sought to make of Louis XV. an artist-king; and it must be said to her praise that she
ever strove to rouse him from his habitual indolence and lassitude by leading his inclinations
into healthy channels. But, unfortunately, Louis XV., unlike his predecessor, could never understand
that great monuments often make the glory of kings.

The petits soupers of Versailles would occasionally shed a ray of sunshine, or rather lamp
light, over Louis the Fifteenth's habitual ennui. After supper, chansons, sallies, and repartee,
would be the order of the night. Occasionally at these supper-parties some brilliant things
would be said. One evening, when some one sang a complaint upon the misfortunes of our first
father Adam, the king improvised the following couplet worthy of the best chansons of Collé:--

  Il n'eut qu'une femme avec lui,
    Encor c'etait la sienne;
  Ici je vois celles d'autrui,
    Et ne vois pas la mienne.

Louis XV. had, as we see, his moments of poetical inspiration. Anacreon could not have sung
better than this.

Madame de Pompadour, born in the ranks of the people, and seating herself unceremoniously on
the throne of Blanche of Castille--Madame de Pompadour, protecting philosophers and suppressing
Jesuits, treating the great powers of the earth with the same sans façon as she did artists
and men of letters,--was one of the thousand causes, petty and, trifling in themselves, which
eventually accelerated the great French Revolution. Madame Dubarry but imitated her predecessor
when she called a noble duke a sapajou (ape). The mot is pretty well known: "Annoncez le sapajou
de Madame la Comtesse Dubarry," said a great lord of the court of Louis XV. one day. It would
be a curious and most amusing task to enrich the French peerage with all the sobriquets bestowed
by the mistresses of Louis XV. as titles of nobility upon the courtiers of Versailles. More
than one illustrious name, which has been cited by France with pride, has lost its luster in
the tainted atmosphere of Versailles. In short, Madame de Pompadour reigned so imperiously,
that once at Versailles, about the conclusion of dinner, an old man approached the king, and
begged him to have the goodness to recommend him to Madame de Pompadour. All present laughed
heartily at this conceit; except, however, the marchioness.

Madame de Maintenon had not more difficulty in amusing Louis XIV. when grown old and devout,
than had Madame de Pompadour in diverting his successor, who, though still young, seemed like
a man who had exhausted all the pleasures and enjoyments of life. About the time when the marchioness
used to transform herself into milkmaids and peasant girls, she commenced building a very romantic
hermitage in the park of Versailles, on the outskirts of the wood near the Saint Germain's
road: viewed from without it seemed a true hermitage, worthy in all points of an anchorite's
abode; but within it was a dwelling more suited to some old roué of the Regency. Vanloo, Boucher,
and Latour had covered the walls and ceilings with all the images of pagan art. The garden
was a chef d'oeuvre; it was a grove rather than a garden; a grove peopled with statues, intersected
by a multitude of winding paths and alleys, and abounding with a number of arbors, recesses,
and "shady blest retreats." In the middle of the garden there was a farm--a true model-farm--with
its cattle, goats, and sheep, and all the paraphernalia of husbandry. The marchioness presided
daily at the construction of this hermitage.

"Where are you going, marchioness?" Louis XV. would say on seeing her going out so frequently.

"Sire," she would reply, "I am building myself a hermitage for my old age. You know I am rather
devout: I shall end my days in solitude."

"Yes," replied the king, "like all those who have loved deeply, or who have been loved deeply."

About the time when spring gives place to the first advances of summer; when the trees were
in leaf, and the plants in flower; when the bright greensward, enameled with its countless
flowrets, carpeted the alleys of the park, Madame de Pompadour one morning begged Louis XV.
to come and breakfast with her at the hermitage.

The king was conducted thither by his valet. His surprise was great. At first, before entering,
at the sight of the humble thatched roof, he imagined that he was about to breakfast like a
true anchorite, and began to fear seriously that the marchioness had not displayed much taste
in the adornment of her retreat. He entered the court and proceeded straight to the door of
the hermitage. At this instant a young peasant girl advanced to meet him; as she was well made,
delicate, and pretty looking, the king began to find the hermitage more to his taste. With
deep reverence his guide begged of him to follow her to the farm.

As he approached the farm, another peasant girl, more delicate still than the former, advanced
to meet him, and, with a thousand reverences, presented him with a bowl of milk. At the sight
of this pretty milkmaid, with her little straw hat coquettishly disposed on one side of her
head, her white corset and blue petticoat, the king was charmed. Before taking the milk from
her hands, he gazed at her a second time from head to foot. Her arms, which were uncovered,
were white as lilies; she wore suspended from her neck a little gold cross, which seemed to
lose itself in a magnificent bouquet of flowers which she wore in her bosom; but what above
all astonished the king were two little stockingless feet incased in a pair of the most rustic
sabots. With a motion of innocent coquetry, the pretty milkmaid drew one of her feet out of
its wooden prison and placed it on the sabot. All at once the king recognized the marchioness,
and avowed to her that for the first time in his life he had felt the desire of kissing a pretty
foot. Madame de Pompadour returned with her royal lover to the hermitage, where he could not
sufficiently admire the refined taste which had been displayed by the fair architect in the
planning and arrangement of the building and grounds. This was the origin of what was afterward
known as the notorious Parc-aux-cerfs.

It would be a difficult matter to study the political system of Madame de Pompadour, if, indeed,
she can be said to have acted on a system. It cannot be denied that she possessed ideas, but
more frequently her mind was a perfect chaos of caprices. It is well known, however, that the
Duc de Choiseul, who united in his own person the portfolios of three departments of the ministry,
and who disposed of all power, followed to the letter the policy of Madame de Pompadour; namely,
in reversing the system of Louis XIV., in allying himself to Austria, and in forming a league,
or rather a family pact, between the Bourbons of France, Italy, and Spain. The policy of Madame
de Pompadour it was which annexed Corsica to France, and, consequently, Bonaparte, who was
born at the decease of the marchioness, owed to her his title of French citizen.

Women look not to the future; their reign is from day to day; women of genius, who have at
various epochs sought to govern the world, have never contemplated the clouds which might be
gathering in the distance; they have been able to see clearly enough within a narrow circle
traced around them, but have never succeeded in piercing the shadows of futurity. "Après moi
le déluge," was Madame de Pompadour's motto.

The eighteenth century was a century of striking contrasts. The prime minister after Cardinal
de Fleury was Madame de Pompadour. With the cardinal a blind religion protected the throne
against the parliament; with the rise of the marchioness's power we perceive the first dawnings
of philosophy, tormenting in turns both the clergy and the parliament. Under Madame de Pompadour's
direction the king, had he been only as bold and determined as his mistress, would have become
a greater king than ever. The cardinal was miserly and avaricious, the marchioness liberal
to prodigality; she always said, and justly too, that money ought to flow freely from the throne
like a generous stream, fertilizing and humanizing the entire State. The cardinal had been
hostile to Austria, and favorable to Prussia; the marchioness made war with Frederick to humor
Marie-Thérèse. The battle of Rosbach certainly belied her policy, but, to use her own words,
"Had she the privilege of making heroes?"

And after all, is the historian justified in accusing this woman of all the dishonors and defeats
of the reign of Louis XV.? She attained to power just as the old legitimate royalty--the royalty,
as the French would call it, par la grace de Dieu--was fast giving way before the royalty of
opinion. There was nothing left to be done at Versailles, simply because in Paris the power
was already in the hands of Voltaire, Montesquieu, Rousseau, and Diderot. And so well did Madame
de Pompadour comprehend this future royalty, that far from seeking to arrest its progress,
she, on the contrary, sought to meet it half way. For we do not find her openly protecting
and encouraging the philosophers of the day; those very men who, by the mere force of ideas,
were destined to overthrow that throne on which she herself was seated! Thus we find also the
various painters of the time, in their several portraits of the favorite, never failing to
represent her surrounded with all the more celebrated revolutionary books of the day, such
as the Encyclopaedia, the Philosophical Dictionary, the Spirit of Laws, and the Social Contract.

Madame de Pompadour, woman-like, loved revenge; and this, it must be said, was her worst vice.
For a word she sent Latude to the Bastille; for a couplet she exiled the minister Maurepas.
Frederick of Prussia took it into his head one day, in a moment of gayety, to call her Cotillon
II., instead of Madame la Marquise de Pompadour, and styled her reign of favor le régne de
Cotillon; a witticism which so incensed her, that, according to some writers, we may trace
to this petty cause the origin of the disastrous seven years' war.

The position of Madame de Pompadour at court as first favorite was, by all accounts, far from
being an enviable one; as years rolled on she found herself necessitated to stoop to all kinds
of meannesses, and to endure all sorts of humiliations, to preserve her already tottering empire.
In order to make friends for herself in the parliament, she suppressed the Jesuits; and she
afterward exiled the parliament in order to conciliate the clergy. Again, to prevent her royal,
but most fickle minded lover, from choosing another mistress out of the ranks of the court
ladies, she contrived that seraglio, the notorious Parc-aux-cerfs, "the pillow of Louis the
Fifteenth's debaucheries," as Chateaubriand called it; at the last, hated and despised by all
France, Madame de Pompadour said to Louis XV., "For mercy's sake, keep me near you: I protect
you; I take upon myself all the hatred of France; evil times are come for kings; so soon as
I am gone, all the insults which are now leveled at Madame de Pompadour will be addressed to
the king."

Among the many desperate attempts which were made from time to time to dethrone her, the following
is the most curious:--

M. d'Argenson and Madame d'Estrade had resolved upon raising to the throne of the favorite
the young and beautiful Madame de Choiseul, wife of the court usher. The intrigue was conducted
with so much art that the king granted an interview. At the hour fixed upon for the meeting
a great agitation reigned in the cabinet of the minister. M. d'Argenson and Madame d'Estrade
awaited the event with anxiety; Quesnai, physician to the king and to the favorite, was also
present. All at once Madame de Choiseul rushed into the room; Madame d'Estrade ran to meet
her with open arms.

"Well!" she exclaimed.

"Yes," replied Madame de Choiseul; "I am loved; she is going to be dismissed. He has given
me his royal word on it."

A burst of joy resounded through the cabinet. Quesnai was, as we know, the friend of Madame
de Pompadour; but he was at the same time the friend of Madame d'Estrade. M. d'Argenson imagined
that in this revolution he would remain neuter at least, but he was mistaken.

"Doctor," said he, "nothing changes for you; we trust that you will remain with us."

"Monsieur le Comte," coldly replied Quesnai, rising from his seat, "I have been attached to
Madame de Pompadour in her prosperity, and I shall remain so in her disgrace;" and so saying
he left the room.

This Quesnai, of whom we have just made mention, was a man of uncouth and rustic manners, a
true Danubian peasant. He inhabited a little entresol above the apartments of Madame de Pompadour
at Versailles, where he would pass the whole of his time absorbed in schemes of political economy.
Quesnai, however, did not want for friends, as he could boast of the esteem of all the most
illustrious philosophers of the day. For those persons who did not go to court would come once
a month to dine with the court physician. Marmontel, in his Memoirs, relates that he has dined
there in company with Diderot, D'Alembert, Duclos, Helvetius, Turgot, and Buffon,--a goodly
array of intellect. Thus on the ground floor they deliberated on peace and war, on the choice
of ministers, the suppression of the Jesuits, the exile of the parliament, and the future destinies
of France; while above stairs those who had not power, but who possessed ideas, labored unwittingly
at the future destinies of the world. What was concocted in the rez-de-chaussée was demolished
in the entresol. It would frequently happen, too, that Madame de Pompadour who could not receive
the guests of Quesnai in her own apartments, would ascend to those of her physician to see
and chat with them.

Every Sunday morning Madame de Pompadour received at her toilet all the artists, literary men,
and great personages of the court, who had the entrée of her apartments. Marmontel relates
that on the arrival of Duclos and De Bernis, who never missed a single Sunday, she would say
to the first, with a light air, "Bon jour, Duclos;" to the second, with an air and voice more
amiable, "Bon jour, abbé:" accompanying her words occasionally with a little tap on his cheek.
Artists and men of letters were invariably better received than the titled courtiers of France;
while many of the nobility were truly lords-in-waiting, the two Vanloos, De la Tour, Boucher,
and Cochin, had never to remain in the antechamber. The account of her first and only interview
with Crebillon is interesting. Some one had informed her that the old tragic poet was living
in the Marais, surrounded by his cats and dogs, in a state of poverty and neglect. "What say
you!" she exclaimed; "in poverty and neglect?" She ran to seek the king, and asked for a pension
for the poet of one hundred louis a-year from her privy purse. When Crebillon came to Versailles
to thank her, she was in bed. "Let him come in," she exclaimed, "that I may see the gray-headed
genius." At the sight of the fine old man--Crebillon was then eighty years of age--so poor
and yet so proud, she was affected to tears. She received him with so touching a grace that
the old poet was deeply moved. As he leaned over the bed to kiss her hand, the king appeared.
"Ah, madame," exclaimed Crebillon, "the king has surprised us! I am lost!" This sally amused
Louis XV. vastly; Crebillon's success was decided.

Madame de Pompadour passed her last days in a state of deep dejection. As she was now in the
decline both of her favor and of her reign, she no longer had friends; even the king himself,
though still submitting to her guidance, loved her no more. The Jesuits, too, whom she had
driven from court, overwhelmed her with letters, in which they strove to depict to her the
terrors of everlasting punishment.[E] Every hour that struck seemed to toll for her the death-knell
of all her hopes and joys. On her first appearance at court, proud of her youth, her beauty,
and her brilliant complexion, she had proscribed rouge and patches, saying that life was not
a masked ball. She had now reached that sad period of life when she would be compelled to choose
between rouge or the first wrinkles of incipient old age. "I shall never survive it," she used
to say, mournfully,

[Footnote E: The fear of losing her power, and of becoming once more a bourgeoise of Paris,
perpetually tormented her. After she had succeeded in suppressing the Jesuits, she fancied
she beheld in each monk of the order as assassin and a poisoner.--Mémoires historiques de la
Cour de France.]

One night, during the year 1760, she was seized with a violent trembling, and sitting up in
bed, called Madame du Hausset.

"I am sure," she said, "I am going to die. Madame de Vintimille and Madame de Chateauroux both
died as young as myself: it is a species of fatality which strikes all those who have loved
the king. What I regret least is life,--I am weary of flatteries and insults, of friendships
and hatreds; but I own to you that I am terrified at the idea of being cast into some ditch
or other, whether it be by the clergy, by Monseigneur the Dauphin, or by the people of Paris."

Madame du Hausset took her hands within her own, and assured her that if France had the misfortune
to lose her, the king would not fail to give her a burial worthy of her rank and station.

"Alas!" rejoined Madame de Pompadour, "a burial worthy of me!--when we recollect that Madame
de Mailly, repenting of having been his first mistress, desired to be interred in the cemetery
of the Innocents; and not only that, but even under the common water-pipe."

She passed the night in tears. On the following morning, however, she resumed a little courage,
and hastened to call to her aid all the resources of art to conceal the first ravages of time;
but in vain did she seek to recover that adorable smile which twenty years before had made
Louis XV. forget that he was King of France.

From this time forth she showed herself in Paris no more; and at court she would only appear
by candle-light, and then in the apparel of a Queen of Golconda, crowned with diamonds, her
arms covered with bracelets, and wearing a magnificent Indian robe, embroidered with gold and
silver. She was always the beautiful Marchioness de Pompadour, but a closer inspection would
show that the lovely face of former days was now but a made-up face, still charming, but like
a restored painting, showing evident symptoms of having been here and there effaced and retouched.
It was in the mouth that she first lost her beauty. She had in early life acquired the habit
of biting her lips to conceal her emotions, and at thirty years of age her mouth had lost all
its vivid brilliancy of color.

Some persons have stated that Madame de Pompadour died from the effects of poison, administered
either by the Jesuits, who never ceased persecuting her with anonymous letters, or by her enemies
at Versailles; but this story is not deserving of credit. Most persons are agreed that Madame
de Pompadour died simply because she was five and forty years of age; and owing as she did
all her power but to the charm of her beauty, its loss she was unable to survive. She suffered
for a length of time in silence, hiding ever under a pallid smile the death she already felt
in her heart. At length she took to her bed--that bed from which she was fated to rise no more.
She was then at the Chateau of Choisy; neither the king nor his courtiers imagined that her
disease was serious, but she herself well knew that her hour was come. She entreated the king
to have her removed to Versailles; she wished to die upon the throne of her glory--to die as
a queen in the royal palace, still issuing her orders to the troop of servile courtiers who
were accustomed to wait humbly at her footstool.

Like Diana de Poitiers, Gabrielle d'Estrées, and Madame de Maintenon, she died in April. The
curé of the Madeleine was present during her last moments. As the old man was preparing to
retire, after giving her the benediction, she rallied for a moment, for she was then almost
dead, and said to him, "Wait a bit, Monsieur le Curé, we will go together.