For its university Caen is indebted to Henry VIth, who, anxious to give éclat and popularity
to British rule, founded a college by letters patent, dated from Rouen, in January, 1431. The
original charter restricted the objects of the university to education in the canon and civil
law; but, five years subsequently, the same king issued a fresh patent, adding the faculties
of theology and the arts; and, in the following year, he still farther added the faculty of
medicine.--To give permanency to the work thus happily begun, the states of Normandy preferred
their petition to Pope Eugene IVth, who issued two bulls, dated the thirtieth of May, 1437,
and the nineteenth of May, 1439, by which the new university received the sanction of the holy
see, and was placed upon the same footing as the other universities of the kingdom. The Bishop
of Bayeux was at the same time appointed chancellor; and sundry apostolical privileges were
conceded, which have been confirmed by subsequent pontiffs.--Thus Normandy, as is admitted
by De Bourgueville, owed good as well as evil to her English sovereigns; but Charles VIIth
had no sooner succeeded in expelling our countrymen from the province, than jealousy arose
in his breast, at finding them in possession of such a title to the gratitude of the people,
and he resolved to run the risk of destroying what had been done, rather than lose the opportunity
of gratifying his personal feeling. The university was therefore dissolved in 1450, that a
new one might hereafter be founded by the new sovereign. The king thought it necessary to vary
in some degree from the example of his predecessor; and for this purpose he had recourse to
the extraordinary expedient of abolishing the faculty of law. A petition, however, from the
states, induced him to replace the whole upon its original footing in 1452, and it continued
till the time of the revolution to have all the five faculties, and to be the only one in France
that retained them. Two years only intervened between the dates of the patents issued by Charles
VIIth, upon the subject of this university; yet there is a remarkable difference in their language.
The first of them, which is obviously intended to disparage Caen, styles it a large town, scantily
inhabited, without manufactures or commerce, and destitute of any great river to afford facilities
towards the transport of the produce of the country. The second was designed to have an opposite
tendency; and in this, the people of Caen are praised for their acuteness, and the town for
its excellent harbor and great rivers. The patent also adds, that the nearest university, that
of Paris, is fifty leagues distant.

In the estimation, at least, of the inhabitants, the university of Caen ranks at present the
third in France; Paris and Strasbourg being alone entitled to stand before it. The faculty
of law retains its old reputation, and the legal students are quite the pride of the university.
Since the peace, many young jurisprudents from Jersey and Guernsey have resorted to it. Medical
students generally complete their education at Paris, where it is commonly considered in France,
that, both in theory and practice, the various branches of this faculty have nearly attained
the acmè of perfection. The students, who amount to just five hundred, are under the care of
twenty-six professors, many of them men of distinguished talents. The Abbé de la Rue fills
the chair of history; M. Lamouroux, that of the natural sciences. They receive their salaries
wholly from the government; their emoluments continue the same, whether the students crowd
to hear their courses, or whether they lecture to empty benches. It is strictly forbidden to
a student to attempt to make any remuneration to a professor, or even to offer him a present
of any kind. The whole of the dues paid by the scholars go to the state; and the state in its
turn, defrays the expences of the establishment.

There is likewise at Caen an Academy of Sciences, Arts and Belles Lettres, which has published
two volumes; not, strictly speaking, of its Transactions, but exhibiting a brief outline of
the principal papers that have been read at the meetings. The antiquarian dissertations of
the Abbé de la Rue, which they contain, are of great merit; and it is much to be regretted,
that they have not appeared in a more extended form. A chartered academy was first founded
here in the year 1705; and it continued to exist, till it was suppressed, like all others throughout
France, at the revolution. The present establishment arose in 1800, under the auspices of General
Dugua, then prefect of the department, who had been urged to the task by the celebrated Chaptal,
Minister of the Interior.--Some interesting, letters are annexed to the second part of the
poems of Mosant de Brieux, in which, among much curious information relative to Caen, he describes
the literary meetings that led to the foundation of the first academy. The town at that time
could boast an unusual proportion of men of talents. Bochart, author of Sacred Geography; Graindorge,
who had published De Principiis Generationîs; Huet, a man seldom mentioned, without the epithet
learned being attached to his name; and Halley and Ménage, authors almost equally distinguished,
were amongst those who were associated for the purposes of acquiring and communicating information.

Indeed, Caen appears at all times to have been fruitful in literary
characters. Huet enumerates no fewer than one hundred and thirty-seven,
whom he considers worthy of being recorded among the eminent men of
France. The greater part of them are necessarily unknown to us in
England; and allowance must be made for a man who is writing upon a
subject, in which self-love may be considered as in some degree
involved; the glory of our townsmen shining by reflection upon
ourselves. A portion, however, of the number, are men whose claims to
celebrity will not be denied.--Such, in the fifteenth century, were the
poets John and Clement Marot; such was the celebrated physician,
Dalechamps, to whom naturalists are indebted for the Historia
Plantarum; such the laborious lexicographer, Constantin; and, not to
extend the catalogue needlessly, such above all was Malherbe. The medal
that has been struck at Caen in honor of this great man, at the expence
of Monsieur de Lair, bears for its epigraph, the three first words of
Boileau's eulogium--"Enfin Malherbe vint."--The same inscription is also
to be seen upon the walls of the library.
    Par ce sage écrivain, la langue repareé,
    N'offrit plus rien de rude à l'oreille épureé.
    Les stances avec grâce apprirent à tomber,
    Et le Vers sur le Vers n'osa plus enjamber."

