Where failures have occurred in submarine telegraphs, the causes are now well understood and
easily to be avoided. Thus with the first Atlantic cable, its defects have all been carefully
investigated by scientific men, and may be easily guarded against. When this cable was in process
of manufacture in the factory of Messrs. Glass, Elliot, & Co., in Greenwich, near London, it
was coiled in four large vats, and there left exposed, day after day, to the heat of a summer
sun, which was intensified by the tarred coating of the cable to one hundred and twenty degrees.
This went on, day after day, with the knowledge of the engineer and electrician of the company,
although the directors had given explicit orders that sheds should be erected over the vats
to prevent the possibility of such an occurrence. As might have been foreseen, the gutta-percha
was melted, so that the conductor which it was desired to insulate was so twisted by the coils
that it was left quite bare in numberless places, thus weakening, and eventually, when the
cable was submerged, destroying the insulation. The injury was partially discovered before
the cable was taken out of the factory at Greenwich, and a length of about thirty miles was
cut out and condemned. This, however, did not wholly remedy the difficulty, for the defective
insulation became frequently and painfully apparent while the cable was being submerged. Still
further evidence of its imperfect condition was afforded when it came to be cut up for charms
and trinkets.

The first cable was, to a great extent, an experiment,--a leap in the dark. Its material and
construction were as good as the state of knowledge at that time provided, and in many respects
not unsuitable; but the company could not avail itself, at that time, of the instruments or
apparatus for testing its conducting power and insulation, in the manner since pointed out
by experience. The effects of temperature, as we have seen, were not provided for. The vast
differences in the conducting power of copper were discovered only by means of that cable,
when made. The mathematical law whereby the proportions of insulation to conduction are determined
had not been fully investigated; and it was even argued by some of the pretended electricians
in the employ of the company, that, the smaller the conductor, the more rapidly the current
could pass through it. No mode of protecting the external sheath from oxidation had then been
discovered; and the kind of machinery necessary for submerging cables in deep water could only
be theoretically assumed.

Looking back to that period, and granting that there was too much haste in the preparations,
and that other mistakes were committed which could now be foreseen and avoided, it is not too
much to say, that, if that cable could be laid and worked, as was done, after one failure in
1857, and the consequent uncoiling and storage of it in an exposed situation, and after three
attempts in 1858, under the most fearful circumstances as to weather, it would be an easy task
to lay a cable constructed and submerged by the light of present experience.

The above cuts, representing sections of the cable laid in 1858 and the proposed new cable,
will serve to show the difference between the two, and the immense superiority of the latter
over the former. In the old Atlantic cable the copper conducting-wire weighed but ninety-three
pounds to the mile, while in the new cable it weighs five hundred and ten pounds to the mile,
or more than five times as much. Now the size, or diameter, of a telegraphic conductor is just
as important an item, in determining the strength of current which can be maintained upon it
with a given amount of battery-force, as the length of the conductor. To produce the effects
by which the messages are expressed at the end of a telegraphic wire or cable, it is necessary
that the electric current should have a certain intensity or strength. Now the intensity of
the current transmitted by a given voltaic battery along a given line of wire will decrease,
other things being the same, in the same proportion as the length of the wire increases. Thus,
if the wire be continued for ten miles, the current will have twice the intensity which it
would have, if the wire had been extended to a distance of twenty miles. It is evident, therefore,
that the wire may be continued to such a length that the current will no longer have sufficient
intensity to produce at the station to which the despatch is transmitted those effects by which
the language of the despatch is signified. But the intensity of the current transmitted by
a given voltaic battery upon a wire of given length will be increased in the same proportion
as the area of the section of the wire is augmented. Thus, if the diameter of the wire be doubled,
the area of its section being increased in a fourfold proportion, the intensity of the current
transmitted along the wire will be increased in the same ratio. The intensity of the current
may also be augmented by increasing the number of pairs of the generating plates or cylinders
composing the galvanic battery.

All electrical terms are arbitrary, and necessarily unintelligible to the general reader. I
shall, therefore, use them as sparingly as possible, and endeavor to make myself clearly understood
by explaining those which I do use.

All telegraphic conductors offer a certain resistance to the passage of an electric current,
and the amount of this resistance is proportional to the length of the conductor, and inversely
to its size. In order to overcome this resistance, it is necessary to increase the number of
the cells in the battery, and thus obtain a fluid of greater force or intensity.

On aërial telegraph-lines this increase in the intensity of the battery occasions no particular
inconvenience, other than by tending to the more rapid destruction of the small copper coils,
or helices, employed; but upon submarine lines it has the effect of increasing the static electricity,
or electricity of tension, which accumulates along the surface of the gutta-percha covering
of the conducting-wire, in the same manner as static electricity accumulates on the surface
of glass, or of a stick of sealing-wax, by rubbing it with a piece of cloth. The use of submarine
or of subterranean conductors occasions, from the above cause, a small retardation in the velocity
of the transmitted electricity. This retardation is not due to the length of the path which
the electric current has to traverse, since it does not take place with a conductor, equally
long, insulated in the air; but it arises from a static reaction, caused by the passage of
an intense current through a conductor well insulated, but surrounded outside its insulating
coating by a conducting body, such as sea-water or moist ground, or even by the metallic envelope
of iron wires placed in communication with the ground. When this conductor is presented to
one of the poles of a battery, the other pole of which communicates with the ground, it becomes
charged with static electricity, like the coating of a Leyden-jar,--electricity which is capable
of giving rise to a discharge-current, even after the voltaic current has ceased to be transmitted.
Volta showed in one of his beautiful experiments, that, in putting one of the ends of his pile
in communication with the earth, and the other with a non-insulated Leyden-jar, the jar was
charged in an instant of time to a degree proportional to the force of the pile. At the same
time an instantaneous current was observed in the conductor between the pile and the jar, which
had all the properties of an ordinary current. Now it is evident that the subaqueous wire with
its insulating covering may be assimilated exactly to an immense Leyden-jar. The glass of the
jar represents the gutta-percha; the internal coating is the surface of the copper wire; the
external coating is the surrounding metallic envelope and water. To form an idea of the capacity
of this new kind of battery, we have only to remember that the surface of the wire is equal
to fourteen square yards per mile. Bringing such a wire into communication by one of its ends
with a battery, of which the opposite pole is in contact with the earth, whilst the other extremity
of the wire is insulated, must cause the wire to take a charge of the same character and tension
as that of the pole of the battery touched by it.

These currents of static induction are proportional in intensity to the force of the battery
and the length of the wire, whilst an inverse relation is true as regards the length of the
conductor with the ordinary voltaic current.

Professor Wheatstone proved, by actual experiment, that a continuous current may be maintained
in the circuit of the long wire of an electric cable, of which one of the ends is insulated,
whilst the other communicates with one of the poles of a battery, whose other pole is connected
with the ground. This current he considers due to the uniform and continual dispersion of the
statical electricity with which the wire is charged along its whole length.

It was mainly owing to the retardation from this cause that communication through the Atlantic
cable was so exceedingly slow and difficult.

I will now endeavor to show why the new cable will not be liable to this difficulty, to anything
like the same extent.

I have alluded to the resistance offered by the conductor of a telegraph-cable to the passage
of an electric current, and to the retardation of this current by static induction. The terms
retardation and resistance are not considered technically synonymous, but are intended, as
electrical terms, to designate two very different forces. The resistance of a wire, as we have
seen above, is proportional to its length, and inversely to its diameter. It is overcome by
increasing the number of cells in the battery, or, in other words, by increasing the intensity
or force of the current. The retardation in a telegraphic cable, on the contrary, is proportional
to the length of the conducting-wire and the intensity of the battery. In the former case,
by increasing the electrical force you overcome the resistance; while in the latter, by augmenting
the electrical force you increase the retardation.

From the foregoing law it will be seen that there are two ways of lessening the resistance
upon telegraphic conductors,--one by reducing the length, and the other by increasing the area
of the section of the conducting-wire. If, then, by comparison, we estimate the resistance
in the old Atlantic cable to have been equal to two thousand miles of ordinary telegraph-wire,
the increased size of the conducting-wire of the new cable reduces the resistance to one-fifth
that distance, or four hundred miles. And while it required two hundred cells of battery to
produce intensity sufficient to work over the two thousand miles of resistance in the old cable,
it will require but one-fifth as much, or forty cells, to overcome the four hundred miles of
resistance in the new cable. The retardation which resulted from the intense current generated
by two hundred cells will be also proportionately reduced in the comparatively small battery
of forty cells. Thus we perceive, that, while the length of the cable is, electrically and
practically, reduced to one-fifth of its former length, the retardation of the current is also
decreased in the same proportion. Therefore, if, with the old cable, three words per minute
could be transmitted, with the new cable we shall be able to transmit five times as many, or
fifteen words per minute. This is not equal to our Morse system on the land-lines, which will
signal at the rate of thirty-five words per minute, still less to the printing system, which
can signal at the rate of fifty words per minute; but, even at this rate, the cable would be
enabled to transmit in twenty-four hours one thousand despatches containing an average of twenty
words apiece. Mr. Field, however, claims for the cable a speed of only twelve words per minute,
which would reduce the number of despatches of twenty words each that could be transmitted
in twenty-four hours to eight hundred and sixty-four. We will suppose, however, that the cable
transmits only five hundred telegrams per day; this number, at ten dollars per message, would
give an income of five thousand dollars per diem, or one million five hundred and sixty-five
thousand dollars per annum. Quite a handsome revenue on an outlay of about one million of dollars!

The only instrument which could be used successfully in signalling through the old cable was
one of peculiar construction, called the Marine Galvanometer. In this instrument, momentum
and inertia are almost wholly avoided by the use of a needle weighing only one and a half grains,
combined with a mirror reflecting a ray of light, which indicates deflections with great accuracy.
By this means a gradually increasing or decreasing current is at each instant indicated at
its due strength. Thus, when this galvanometer is placed as the receiving-instrument at the
end of a long submarine cable, the movement of the spot of light, consequent on the completion
of a circuit through the battery, cable, and earth, can be so observed as to furnish a curve
representing very accurately the arrival of an electric current. Lines representing successive
signals at various speeds can also be obtained, and, by means of a metronome, dots and dashes
can be sent with nearly perfect regularity by an ordinary Morse key, and the corresponding
changes in the current at the receiving end of the cable accurately observed.

A system of arbitrary characters, similar to those used upon the Morse telegraph, was employed,
and the letter to be indicated was determined by the number of oscillations of the needle,
as well as by the length of time during which the needle remained in one place. The operator,
who watched the reflection of the deflected needle in the mirror, held a key in his hand communicating
with a local instrument in the office, which he pressed down or raised, according to the deflection
of the needle; and another operator deciphered the characters thus produced upon the paper.
This mode of telegraphing was, of necessity, very slow, and it will not surprise the reader
that the fastest rate of speed over the cable did not exceed three words per minute. Still,
had the old cable continued in operation a few months longer, experience and practice would
have enabled the operator to transmit and receive with very much greater facility. On our land-lines,
operators of long experience acquire a dexterity which enables them not only to transmit and
receive telegrams with wonderful rapidity, but to work the instruments during storms, when
those of less experience would be unable to receive a dot. There is no occupation in which
skill and experience are more necessary to success than in that of telegraphing, and at the
time the Atlantic cable was laid no experience had been obtained upon similar lines, or with
the instruments employed. Now, however, the company can avail itself of experienced operators
from lines of nearly equal length, and who will require no time for experimenting, but may
commence operations as soon as the two ends of the cable are landed upon the shores of Europe
and America.

