In a large per cent of the American homes, man no longer possesses any economic superiority.
He has four vital needs to satisfy while woman has only three, and woman possesses, for barter,
for sale, or for gift, the wherewithall to satisfy one of these.

Few men any longer possess any property worthy of the name; hence, they are forced to sell
their labor power for wages to keep from starving. And men are not always able to secure jobs.

The propertyless woman today is rarely reduced to starvation. If the price (or wages) offered
for the sale of her laboring power are unsatisfactory, she may always supplement them through
the barter or sale of her sex. That there are no women hoboes in the civilized world today
is incontestable proof of the superiority of the economic status of woman over man.

THE FUTURE

We still hear people talk about the relations of the sexes, the family and marriage, as though
these human and social relationships had always been and were bound to remain what they are
today, whereas they have undergone far-reaching modifications within the period of our own lives.

Every change taking place in industry is always bound to send out infinite ramifications through
every branch of our social institutions. The increasing specialization in industry, drawing
more and more of the household arts out of the home and into factory, mill and shops, and the
following of the jobs by women into the mills and factories, thus freeing woman from economic
dependence on man, has already colored every branch of our social fabric. Having become more
independent, woman has grown more exacting. She demands a better bargain when she marries,
or, refusing to barter, she chooses a mate.

In the early days of America, when the home was the economic unit, and almost all industry
was performed in the home and on the farm, women were economically dependent on men. Then woman's
place was undoubtedly in the home, since there was no place else where she could earn a living.
Modern industry has changed all that.

Women compete for jobs with men today, force down wages to a lower level and demand more from
men before they will marry. And yet we see $25.00 a week stenographers giving up their positions
to barter themselves, presumably for life, to $35.00 a week clerks or salesmen, rarely because
of the mating instinct, but usually because of the personal triumph this means in the competition
between members of the sex, and the social approbation which marriage brings.

The only certain thing the wisest man may say about our social institutions is that they have
changed in the past and that they will continue to change, or be modified, or to pass away,
in the future. In one short year, the war has altered some of our old institutions beyond recall.
We believe that a continuation of the war for a considerable period will mean economic and
social changes that will rock the world. And out of the storm and stress of things we doubt
very much whether any of our existing social institutions will emerge intact--if it emerge at all.

The family as it is known in America today, the marriage contract, the relations of the sexes
are bound to alter as they reflect changed economic conditions. Some of the old "pillars of
the social structure" in Russia have already crumbled away.

Women are becoming ever more necessary and important in the role they play in industry. With
this growing economic importance, and with the increasing need of capitalism for more children
to augment the labor and military supply, the power of women will probably increase marvelously
during the next few years. Governments will reward the surrender of woman to man, while employers
compete among themselves for her labor power. Much will be offered to women.

