And what does all this show but the essential idea that it is man--man developed as an individual--man
developed by thousands, by hundreds of thousands, by millions, and tens of millions, these
make the strength and the wealth of a nation. These being left us, the nation, the consumption
as by a fire, attacking a city, or ravaging a whole territory, or sweeping the coffers of the
rich, or invading the cottages of the poor--all this material wealth may easily be repaired.
If the nation remains with its moral and intellectual strength, brighter and larger and more
indestructible possessions than the first will soon replace them. On the three great pillars
of American society--equality of right, community of interest, and reciprocity of duty, rests
this great Republic. Riches and honor and length of days will mark the nation which rests on
that imperishable basis. [Prolonged applause.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FRENCH ALLIANCE

[Speech of William M. Evarts at a banquet of the Chamber of Commerce of
  the State of New York, New York City, November 5, 1881. The banquet
  was given in honor of the guests of the nation, the French diplomatic
  representatives in America, and members of the families descended from
  our foreign sympathizers and helpers, General Lafayette, Count de
  Rochambeau, Count de Grasse, Baron von Steuben, and others, who were
  present at the Centennial celebration of the victory at Yorktown. The
  chairman, James M. Brown, Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce,
  proposed the following toast: "The French Alliance; the amicable
  relations between our two countries founded in 1778, by the Treaty of
  Amity and Commerce, between the nation of France and the American
  people, cemented in blood in 1781, renewed by this visit of our
  distinguished guests, will, we trust, be perpetuated through all
  time."]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN OF THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE:--It is with great pride, as well as
with great pleasure, that I respond to the call in behalf of the merchants of the United States,
as represented by the merchants of the great city of the United States, through this ancient
guild of the Chamber of Commerce, in paying their tribute of honor and applause to the French
nation, that was present as a nation in the contest of our Revolution, and is present here
as a nation by its representatives to-day [applause]; and to the great Frenchmen that were
present with their personal heroism in the struggles of the Revolution, and are present here
in their personal descendants, to see the fruits of that Revolution, and to receive our respectful
greeting [applause]; and to the Germans who were present, where they could not have been spared
in the great trials of our feeble nation in its struggles against the greatest power in the
world, and who are here, by the descendants of those heroic Germans, to join in this feast
of freedom and of glory. [Applause.]

But I felt a little doubt, Mr. Chairman, whether the etiquette of this occasion required me
to speak in my own tongue, or in the German or the French, for I speak French and German equally
well [laughter], but I thought it would be a poor compliment, after all, to talk to these Frenchmen,
or these Germans, in their native tongues. They surely hear enough of that at home. [Laughter.]

Well, Mr. President, the French Alliance was one of the noblest transactions in history. The
sixth day of February, 1778, witnessed the Treaty of Alliance and the accompanying Treaty of
Amity and Commerce which filled out our Declaration of Independence, and made that an assured
triumph, which was until then nothing but a heroic effort on our part. [Cheers.] I do not know
that the sixth of February has anywhere been honored in any due proportion to the Fourth of
July; but for my part, as an humble individual, from the earliest moment I have done all in
my power to show my homage to that day, for on that day I was born. [Laughter and applause.]

Now, we talk the most and must feel the most and with great propriety, of the presence of our
French and of our German aids, and of our own presence at the battle of Yorktown and the surrender.
But what would that occasion have amounted to, either in the fact of it or in the celebration
of it, if the English had not been there? [Laughter.] You may remember the composure of the
hero that was going to the block and felt that there was no occasion for hurry or confusion
in the attendant crowd, as nothing important could take place until he got there [laughter];
and so, in this past history and in the present celebration, we recognize that it is not a
question of personal mortification or of personal triumph--not even of national mortification
or of national triumph. This was one of the great battles of the world, in which all the nations
engaged, and all other nations had an everlasting interest and one through which they were
to reap an everlasting good. [Applause.]

And I would like to know if the granddaughter of George III has ever had from her subjects,
British or Indian, any sweeter incense than has just now been poured out from the hearts of
the American people, who freely give that homage to her virtues as a woman that they deny to
her sceptre and her crown as a queen. [Applause.] Who would not rather be a great man than
a great king? Who would not rather be a great woman than a great queen? [Applause.] Ah, is
there not a wider sovereignty over the race, and a deeper homage from human nature than ever
can come from an allegiance to power? And for woman, though she be a queen, what personal power
in human affairs can equal that of drawing a throb from every heart and a tear from every eye,
when she spoke to us as a woman in the distress of our nation? [Applause.]

It was a very great thing for France to make the Treaty of Alliance and the Treaty of Amity
and Commerce with a nation that, as yet, had received no acceptance from the powers of the
earth. And when we remember that France, in the contests of a thousand years, had found England
no unequal match in the quarrels that belonged to the two nations, I must think that human
history has shown nothing nobler than her espousal of this growing struggle between these colonists
and the great power of England. [Applause.] How much nearer France was to England than we!
How much wider her possessions through the world, open to the thunders of the British navy
and the prowess of the British arms! And when France, in a treaty, the equal terms of which
will strike every reader with wonder, speaks of the "common cause" to be pursued until the
result of our complete independence, governmental and commercial, was attained, I know nothing
in the way of the "bearing the burdens of one another," enjoined as the Christian spirit, that
is greater than this stupendous action of France. [Applause.]

The relations of blood and history that make England and us one, as we always shall be, do
not, nevertheless, make it clear that there is not a closer feeling of attachment, after all,
between us and France. It is a very great compliment, no doubt, in classical phrase, to bespoken
of as "matre pulchra filia pulchrior"--the fairer daughter of a fair mother, but, after all,
it is a greater compliment to the daughter than to the mother. I don't know that maternal affection,
the purest sentiment on earth, is ever quite pleased that the daughter is taller and fairer
and more winning in her ways than the mother is, or ever was [laughter]; and I do know that
there comes a time when the daughter leaves the mother and cleaves to a closer affection. And
here were we, a young, growing, self-conscious, self-possessed damsel, just peeping from out
our mother's apron, when there comes a gallant and noble friend, who takes up our cause, and
that, too, at a time when it was not quite apparent whether we should turn out a beauty or
a hoyden. [Laughter and applause.] And that is our relation to France. Nothing can limit, nothing
can disturb it; nothing shall disparage it. It is that we, from that time and onward, and now
finally in the great consummation of two Republics united together against the world, represent
in a new sense Shakespeare's figure of the "unity and married calm of states." [Applause.]

The French people have the advantage of us in a great many things, and I don't know that we
have any real advantage of them, except in a superior opinion of ourselves. [Laughter.] God
forbid that anybody should take that from us! Great as is our affection and gratitude toward
the French and German nations, there is one thing that we cannot quite put up with in those
nations, and that is, that, but for them, the English and we should think ourselves the greatest
nations in the world. [Laughter.] So, with all the bonds of amity between us and them, we must
admit that the Frenchmen and Germans make a pretty good show on the field of history in the
past, and, apparently, mean to have a pretty good share of the future of this world. [Applause.]

In comparing the Yorktown era with the present day, we find that then a great many more Frenchmen
came here than Germans; but now a great many more Germans come here than Frenchmen. The original
disparity of numbers seems to have been redressed by the later immigration, and we are reduced
to that puzzling equilibrium of the happy swain whenever we are obliged to choose sides in
the contest between these nations:--

 "How happy could I be with either,
  Were t'other dear charmer away."

[Laughter.]

The French are a great people in their conduct toward us in this respect, that the aid and
sympathy and alliance has been all in our favor; they have done everything for us, and have
been strong enough not to need anything from us. [Applause.] The fault of the French, changing
a little Mr. Canning's memorable lines:--

 "The fault of the French, unlike the Dutch,
  Is asking too little, and giving too much."

[Laughter and applause.]

Now, this treaty commences with the very sensible statement that the two nations being desirous
of placing their commerce and correspondence upon permanent and equitable grounds, His Most
Christian Majesty and the United States of America had thought, to that end, it was best to
place these relations upon perfect equality and reciprocity, without any of those burdensome
preferences which are the source of debate and misunderstanding and of discontent between nations.
In this spirit it is, no doubt, that we have each pursued toward each other, in commerce, that
most equitable and equal system, by prohibitory duties, of keeping all of each other's products
out of the other that we can. [Laughter.] Well, the Frenchmen knew, after all, that the Americans
can never get along without their wines, and without their silks, and without their jewels,
and without their art, and without their science, and without the numberless elegancies which
make life even in our backwoods tolerable. And we know that they cannot very well dispense
with our wheat and corn and the oil from the earth and the cotton to weave into those delicate
tissues with which they clothe the world. [Applause.] So that, after all, these superficial
barriers of customs duties do not really obstruct our commerce; and even if they have too much
of our pork, as would seem to be the notion at present, we have no desire to dispense with
their wines. [Laughter.]

But there are some other interchanges between nations besides those of commerce in the raw
material or in the products of industry. If we could make more of a moral interchange with
the French; if we could take some of the moral sunlight which shines upon that great nation;
if we could be more cheerful, more gay, more debonair, and if they could take from us some
of the superfluous ice which we produce morally as well as naturally, and some of that cold
resistance against the inflammation of enthusiasm which sometimes raises a conflagration among
their citizens at home, we have no tariff on either side that would interfere in the blending
and intercommunication of the moral resources of both nations, that shall make us more and
more one people, in laws, liberties and national glory, and in all the passions that guide
and animate the conduct of nations. [Applause.]

I am happy to announce myself to you, gentlemen, what I am vain enough to suppose you would
not suspect, that I am a contemporary of Lafayette. As a Boston schoolboy, I stood in the ranks
at Boston when Lafayette in 1825 passed with a splendid cortége along the malls of Boston Common.
I had the pleasure, as a descendant of one of his Revolutionary friends, to be presented to
him personally, and to hear him say that he well remembered his old friend, my grandfather.
[Cheers.] This pleasing courtesy, it may be said, was all French politeness; but I can say
to these Frenchmen that whether they believe one another at home or not, we always believe
them in this country. [Applause.]

And now your toast desires that this friendship, thus beginning and continued, shall be perpetual.
Who is to stop it? No power but ourselves and yourselves, sir (turning to the French Minister),
can interrupt it. What motive have you--what motive have we--what sentiment, but that on either
side would be dishonor to the two nations--can ever breathe a breath to spoil its splendor
and its purity? [Applause.] And, sir, your munificence and your affection is again to be impressed
upon the American people in that noble present you are designing to make to us, in the great
statue of "Liberty enlightening the World," an unexampled munificence from the private citizens
of one nation to the people of another. We are to furnish the island for its site and the pedestal
to place the statue on. This our people will do with an enthusiasm equal to your own. But,
after all, the obligation will be wholly ours, for it is to be a lighthouse in our great harbor,
a splendid monument to add new beauty to the glorious Bay of New York. [Applause.]

       *       *       *       *       *

TRIBUTE TO HERBERT SPENCER

[Speech of William M. Evarts at a dinner given to Herbert Spencer, New
  York City, November 9, 1882, the day before his return to England. [Laughter.] Having only this
diversity in that early time, that he should be either roasted or boiled
according as he was fat or thin. [Laughter.]

Now, Mr. Spencer, we are glad to meet you here. [Applause.] We are glad to see you and we are
glad to have you see us. [Applause.] You will please fill your glasses while we propose the
health of our guest, Herbert Spencer. [Continued applause.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CLASSICS IN EDUCATION

[Speech of William M. Evarts at the Thanksgiving Jubilee of the Yale
  Alumni, New York City, December 7, 1883. Chauncey M. Depew presided.
  Mr. Evarts responded for the Alumni.]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE ALUMNI:--I congratulate you, Mr. President, on having such
a noble, such a generous, such a patient, such an appreciative body to preside over. I congratulate
you, gentlemen, on having a President who combines in himself in a marked degree these two
great traits of a presiding officer:--confidence in himself [great laughter], and distrust
of all who are to come after him. [Laughter.] I remember forty years ago to have heard a Senator
of the United States, making a stump speech in a quiet town in Vermont, amuse his audience
with a story of a woodsawyer who had worked for him and who had the habit of accompanying the
movement of his saw with talking to himself. He asked him one day why he did so. "Why," said
he, "for two reasons. The first is, that it is a great pleasure to hear a sensible man talk,
and the second is that it is a great pleasure to talk to a sensible man." [Laughter.]

Now, sir, I have but one warning to give you. It is said of Mercutio, the wittiest creation
of Shakespeare, who is despatched very early in the play, "My sore wound hath served its turn,
although it were not as deep as a well nor as wide as a church door." It is said that if Shakespeare
hadn't killed Mercutio early, Mercutio would have killed him. If you [turning to the President]
are to preside year after year or to attempt it upon so high and brilliant and bold a key as
you have assumed here to-night, if you don't kill the Alumni dinners, the Alumni dinners will
kill you. [Great laughter.] Yale College, as represented by its graduates, is not self-conceited
nor obtrusive. It is true they have always felt the magnificent compliment paid to the College
by that greatest of English thinkers and philosophers Lord Bacon, who said in a famous passage,
as you will recall: "Eating makes a full man, drinking a ready man, but to be an Alumnus of
Yale, a wise man." Yet we are modest and even reverent toward the claims of other universities.
We are satisfied at the humble position which the French bishop took towards that great berry,
the strawberry. "Doubtless," said he, "God Almighty might have made a better berry than the
strawberry, but doubtless He has not." [Laughter.] That is our opinion of Yale College. [Applause.]

Now, to be an Alumnus of Yale College, is the object of all those who enter the college and
the object after getting there is to get out. Sometimes indeed, the four years are spent without
that fortunate result. I remember to have heard of the son of a somewhat conspicuous gentleman
who had desired to give his children the benefit of an education such as Yale affords, who
had spent four years there; but the entire four years were spent as a member of the Freshman
class. [Laughter.] What a fortunate condition to be continually towering over more and more
of those who are competing with him in scholarship and for distinction! I know of none greater
unless some mode might be discovered by which one could be a Senior for four years. There is
nothing in human affairs that could equal that happiness! [Laughter.] Well, college life in
my generation--and I certainly had a singular reminder to-night from you, Mr. President, that
I belonged to a generation that has passed out of memory, for you have excited the enthusiasm
of this company only in the applause that you have drawn from those who were graduated under
Presidents Woolsey and Porter. What are you to say for us who graduated under President Day?
College life, I was about to say, is a charming life. The best men, we may presume, are collected
from the community, placed under the happiest relations one to another and under the happiest
influences from above and around them.

The President of the college has spoken to you of the pleasing fact that there is an endowment
of seventy thousand dollars for fellowships. Well, when I was in college, a very moderate endowment
of five dollars contributed by those who were associated as companions was a very good endowment
for good fellowship. [Laughter.] And now in looking at life as it is, as we remember it in
college and have seen it since, who is there that would compare mere fellowship with good-fellowship?
What is there that is heartier, what sincerer, what more generous and what more just than the
relations of young men of a liberal spirit toward one another in college?

Maybe in the good-fellowship of after-life, you, Mr. President, will not hesitate to walk down
Broadway with your arm over General Jackson's shoulder and his about your waist, and then all
the people shall cry with applause: "See how Yale men love one another!"

You will observe, from this little classic allusion that I am on the side of those who favor
in the curriculum the maintenance of the learned languages. For myself, whether an education
in the classic languages and in the classic literature should or should not be discarded from
the education of the noble youth of the country is the question whether it is worth while in
the advancing and strenuous life of modern times that men should have a liberal education.
For be sure that there is no trait in that education that entitles it to the name of liberal
more sure and more valuable than this education in the literature, in the history, in the language
of the great men of the ages past. If any boy is put through what is called a liberal education,
and finds when he goes out from it, that he is not on a level with those who understand and
cherish the Greek language and literature, he will find that he is mistaken in wishing to dispense
with that distinguishing trait.

I am able to give you a very interesting anecdote, as it seems to me, of this very point, of
how a great man, great in his power, great in his fame, yet of an ingenuous and simple nature,
may look at this accomplishment. On my return from Europe, when I first visited it, upon a
public errand, while President Lincoln was at the height of his fame from the assured although
not completed success and triumph in the war, and from the great transaction that had made
him one of the famous men for all ages--the emancipation of the slaves--I had occasion, in
a friendly meeting with him, to express a hope that he would find it in his power after the
cares of State were laid aside to visit Europe and see the statesmen and great men there whose
mouths were full of plaudits for his assured accomplished fame. Said he: "You are very kind
in thinking I should meet with a reception so gratifying as you have proposed, and I certainly
should enjoy as much as any one the acquisition and the observation that such a visit would
give; but," added he, "as you know very well my early education was of the narrowest, and in
the society in which I should move I should be constantly exposed in conversation to have a
scrap of Greek or Latin spoken that I should know nothing about." Certainly that was a very
peculiar statement to be made by this wonderful man, but it struck me at the moment that his
clear mind, his self-poised nature, recognized the fact that his greatness and his fame did
not lie in the direction of an association with what he regarded as the accomplished men of
society and of public life brought.

I believe, therefore, that we will stand by the college while it stands by the Greek and the
Latin, and certainly as representatives of the great mass of graduates we can now talk more
of Greek and Latin as a common accomplishment than the greatest genius and orators of ancient
times, Demosthenes or Cicero, could of English. [Laughter.]

There are many things, gentlemen, that if I were the President of this
association or the President of the University, I should say and expect
to be listened to, while saying it. But I confess that I have pretty
much exhausted, as I perceive, your patience and my own capacity. I am
now living for the reputation of making short speeches, and I am only
afraid that my life will not be long enough to succeed. But I promise
you that if I get a good forum and a good audience like this I will run
a short speech even if I run it into the mud. Charles Stewart Smith, vice-President of the Chamber, presided
  at the dinner and introduced the speaker as follows: "Gentlemen, fill
  your glasses for the seventh regular toast: 'Liberty Enlightening the
  World, a great truth beautifully and majestically expressed by the
  unique gift which our guests of to-night have brought safely to our
  shores.' The gentleman who will respond to this toast needs no
  introduction--Senator William M. Evarts."]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--I may be permitted at the outset, to speak a little about the
share that we have taken on this side of the water in this great achievement which in its glorious
consummation, now receives the applause of the world.

When this great conception of friendship for America, joy at our triumph, and their own undaunted
love of liberty, liberty for France, liberty for the United States, liberty for the world,
arose, then the French people were set aflame with a desire to bring, as it were, their gifts
of frankincense and myrrh to lay on this altar of liberty, that its censer might never die
out, but forever perfume and ennoble the air of the world. [Applause.]

The genius of Art, the patriotism of France, the enthusiasm of its people, accomplished by
contributions drawn from more than one hundred thousand, perhaps two hundred thousand givers,
made up this statue, not equalled in the history of the world, and not conceived in its genius
or its courage before. [Applause.]

Then it was for us to say whether we would furnish the pedestal upon which this great gift
and emblem of Liberty should find its secure and permanent home; without the aid of the Government
and by the movement of our own people in this city, an organization wholly voluntary, and without
pretension or assumption had the faith that the American people would furnish a home fit for
the statue of Liberty, however magnificent should be the reception, that would comport with
its own splendor. [Cheers.]

This organization undertook actively its work in 1882, before the statue was completed, and
while it remained somewhat uncertain to many who doubted whether the great statue would really
be brought to its anticipated prosperity and success. But we went on, and now, within three
years, this work, both of receiving and collecting subscriptions and of raising the pedestal
itself, will have been completed, and I do not hesitate to say, in the face of all critics
and all doubters, that a work of so great magnitude, either in its magnificence, or in its
labor, has never before been completed in so short a time. [Applause.]

When we were reasonably assured of adequate funds, we commenced the concrete base on which
this pedestal was to rest; and no structure of that kind, of that magnitude, of that necessity,
of that perfection and permanence has ever been accomplished in the works of masonry before.
[Cheers.] Commencing on the ninth of October, 1883, it was completed on the seventeenth day
of May, 1884--and then commenced the work of the structure proper, of the pedestal, and it
went on, and it went on, and it went sure, and it went safe, if it went slow, and there it
stands. [Cheers.]

And now a word or two about the Committee. An eminent lawyer of our city was once detected
and exposed and applauded for being seen standing with his hands in his own pockets [laughter],
and for about three months, if you had visited the meetings of this Committee of ours, you
would have seen the whole assembly standing with their hands in their own pockets [applause],
and taking the first step forward asking their fellow-citizens to follow us, and not for us
to follow them. [Cheers.] And so we went on, and on the tenth of this present month, we had
received in hand $241,000, of which $50,000 came from the grand and popular movement of a great
newspaper--"The World" [three cheers for "The World"]--fifty thousand dollars! and that made
up substantially what we had announced in advance as what would be required to complete the
pedestal. But where did we miscarry even in that calculation? The exploration showed us that
the concrete mass must go deeper in the ground, and that cost us alone $85,000, about $30,000
more than we had counted upon before the exploration; and then the $20,000 more that makes
it up to the $300,000 as our need to complete the pedestal (when we had counted upon $250,000),
is made by such delay and such expenses as made the general outlay for this immense structure,
continuing longer than would have been necessary, had the promptness of contributions kept
pace with the possibility of completion.

Now, gentlemen, we have been patient and quiet. Nearly one-fourth of the contributions of the
general citizens came from the pockets of the Committee. Instead of hearing from enterprising
Chicago, and ambitious Boston, they are talking about the slowness and the dulness of New York's
appreciation, of the delays in its contributions. Let the example of our patriotism and munificence
be an example for them to imitate; and this city of Boston--let their people there reflect
that, when they built Bunker Hill monument, it cost I am informed scarcely $100,000. They were
twenty years in raising it, although the whole country was canvassed in its aid. [Laughter.]

Well, gentlemen, so much for that. And how great is this monument! How noble! How beautiful!
How inspiring for the time that looks upon its completion and for the ages that shall mark
it hereafter! If our country and France, as we hope, may go on in the enlargement and advancement
of a glorious civilization, we may feel sure that if our descendants shall overtop us in wealth,
in strength, in art, and equal us in love of liberty, they will not say that this was not a
worthy triumph for the age in which we live [applause]; and if, unhappily, malign influences
shall degrade our civilization and our fame, and travellers and dwellers here shall find their
power has waned, and their love of liberty declined, if they shall have become a poverty-stricken
and debased people, what will they think of this remaining monument of a past and lost age,
but that it was a creation of the gods and that no men ever lived. [Cheers.]

Well, these French gentlemen, the Admiral and the Commandant, how shall we appreciate the beneficence
of their visit, the urbanity of their attentions to us, and the happy and hearty manner in
which they have accepted our hospitality. Why the Admiral--a greater triumph, let me say, than
he could ever have by the power of his navy--has come here and carried New York by storm, without
firing a gun. [Cheers.] And as for Commandant De Saune, he has done what in the history of
the world--of our modern world, at least--no nation, no ruler has successfully attempted: he
has kept "Liberty enlightening the World" under the hatches for thirty days. [Applause.]

It was tried in England, and "Liberty enlightening the World" cut off the head of the king.
Tried again, it drove the dynasty of the Stuarts forever from that free island. In France,
they tried to suppress it, and it uprooted the ancient monarchy and scattered the forces which
were expected to repress it. The milder form of a limited monarchy, even, France would not
submit to as a repression of liberty, and again twice over, under an Imperial government, "Liberty
enlightening the World" has broken out from under the hatches. [Cheers.]

But Commandant De Saune is not only a bold represser of mutiny on board his vessel, but he
is a great and cunning navigator; he did not tell it, but he planned it, and how narrow the
calculation was. He arrived here on the seventeenth of June, Bunker Hill day [applause], and
missed the eighteenth, the day of Waterloo. [Laughter and applause.]--It is thus that this
French genius teaches us new lessons, and evokes irrepressible applause. [Cheers.]

I imagine that a navigator who could thus seize the golden moment, and miss the disastrous
one, might, if he undertook it, discover the North Pole. [Laughter.] But I am sure he has better
work before him in the world than that. [Applause.] But if he goes on to that destination,
oh, let us contribute some portion of the cargo that he will put under the hatches! [Laughter.]

Well, gentlemen, this is a great event, this great triumph of civilization is indeed laden
with many instructions, and many illustrations. No doubt "Liberty enlightening the World" in
modern history finds its greatest instance in that torch which was lighted here; but from the
enthusiasm and the inexorable logic of French philosophy on the "equality of man," was furnished
we can never say how much of the zeal and of the courage that enabled our forefathers to shape
the institutions of equality and liberty here [cheers], and all can mark the reaction upon
France, by which our interests, our prosperity under them encouraged, ennobled and maintained
the struggle for liberty there which overthrew ancient establishments and raised in their place
new. And now both countries, at least, stand on the same happy combination of liberty regulated
by law, and law enlightened by liberty. [Cheers.] And this great structure, emblem of so much
else, example of so much else, guide to so much else, yet this emblem, this example, this guide
is of the union between the genius and enthusiasm of liberty, the graceful statue and the massive
and compact pedestal of our own granite by which it is upheld. [Cheers.]

Liberty can only be supported by solid and sober institutions, founded
upon law as built upon a rock; and the structure solid and sober which
sustains it, if Liberty has fled, is but a shapeless and unsightly mass
that is no longer worthy of respect as a structure, to be torn apart
until it can be better rebuilt as the home of liberty. General
  Ewing was greeted with applause and cheers for Ohio.]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN:--Ohio and her four sisters of the Northwest are always proud and
happy to be reminded of the fact of their kinship to Virginia. It was the valor and the intrepidity
of the Old Dominion which, long before the Confederation was formed, wrested that great territory
from the Frenchmen and the savages. It was her lofty generosity which gave to the poor young
Republic that vast territory out of which has been formed five of our greatest States, and
in which dwell millions of our people. It was her humane and unselfish statesmanship which
annexed to the gift the condition that neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, excepting
punishment for crime, should ever exist in that magnificent domain. Thousands of our Revolutionary
heroes sleep in Ohio in land given to them as a recognition of their own priceless services,
and the beautiful district between the Scioto and the Little Miami is filled with their descendants.
Therefore, Mr. President, whenever Virginia sits at the head of the table, Ohio claims a seat
as one of the family.

I, too, coming from that great State, and proud of it and its condition, may join in congratulating
you, gentlemen, on the establishment of this "Southern Society of New York." After the long
season of strife and discontent this is one of the many signs which mark the vernal equinox,
and foretell the coming summer. I believe, notwithstanding the infinite disasters of the war,
the overthrow of slavery, and with it all the industrial system of the South, and the needless
loss and the humiliations of reconstruction--I believe that there is to-day a kinder and more
cordial fraternity between the North and South than ever existed since the agitation of the
slavery question sixty or seventy years ago. This society formed, and meeting here in this
great centre of American political and business life, can do much to promote that peace. We
need more social intercourse between the Northern and Southern men, and we need, above all,
a clearer and manlier understanding of each other, in order that the recollections of the war
may cease to check the growing accord between us.

Gentlemen, the North craves a living and lasting peace with the South; it asks no humiliating
conditions; it recognizes the fact that the proximate cause of the war was the constitutional
question of the right of secession--a question which, until it was settled by the war, had
neither a right nor wrong side to it. Our forefathers, in framing the Constitution purposely
left the question unsettled; to have settled it distinctly in the Constitution would have been
to prevent the formation of the union of the Thirteen States. They, therefore, committed that
question to the future and the war came on and settled it forever. Now, the Northern people
are not so mean, fanatical or foolish as to blame the South because it believed then and believes
now that it had the right side of that question. How could we respect the South if it were
to say now that it was insincere then, or if it were to pretend that its convictions on a question
of constitutional construction had been changed by the cuffs and blows of the war? It is enough
that the North and South alike agree that the war settled that question in favor of the Northern
construction finally and forever.

The North does ask that the settlement of the war as embodied in the constitutional amendments
shall be accepted, and obeyed in the letter and spirit, as good faith and good citizenship
require. There have been undoubtedly very many instances of violation of the spirit of the
amendments and there will be in the future, but no more than from the very nature of things
was to have been expected; and I have no doubt that they will decrease in number as time goes
on, and will finally disappear in the breaking-up of the color line in the South; and under
the influence of that great sentiment become more familiar and more general every year, in
favor of equal political rights to every American citizen. Aside from these questions, there
is nothing to perpetuate alienation between the North and South. The new questions will lead
to new divisions on other lines; already the representatives of Alabama are getting ready to
stand with Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey in support of the tariff on the iron industry;
the spinners of the Dan and the Saco will stand very soon with the spinners of the Willimantic
and the Merrimac in supporting the cotton interests, and now we see the cotton-growers of the
South and the wheat-growers of the Northwest united in demanding a tariff for revenue only.

Common political interests, the ministry of social and political intercourse, and perhaps higher
than all, the pride of a common citizenship are rapidly supplanting sectionalism among our
own people and leading us to stand together and work out our common destiny in fraternal reunion.
It has often occurred to me, as a cause of thankfulness to Almighty God--and I believe He is
guiding this Republic so as to work out the problem of self-government for all mankind--that
the tremendous fact of the war has caused so little change in our system of government; constitutional
amendments have been so limited by interpretation by the Supreme Court of the United States
that they have hardly added anything to the powers of the general Government or impaired the
powers of the States. The legislation following the war when Congress seemed to have run mad
with the theory that it could legislate outside of the Constitution has to a large extent fallen
under the decisions of that high tribunal. One would have supposed that it could have been
certain that, considering the fact that the war was waged to extend the extremest proposition
of State sovereignty, that the triumph of the Federal theory would have added enormously and
permanently to the powers of the general Government and diminished very greatly and permanently
the powers of the States. It is well for Republican government that that evil was averted.
We have our free State Government, States still stand as the fortresses of American liberty,
and our Federal government moves in its orb with scarcely a perturbation to mark the influence
of the war upon it.

Gentlemen, we have successfully worked out the problem of self-government, and our example
will undoubtedly and in due time be followed by the world. What else is there for this Republic
to do? There is a tremendous question yet unsolved which is now rising unbidden in this and
in every enlightened nation. It is the question of the proper distribution of the earnings
of labor and capital combined. This is a question that will not down, and we have got to meet
it. British publicists and statesmen from whom we have taken in the past far too much of our
politics have either ignored that question entirely, or have treated it as practically settled
by the apothegm of Ricardo, that the laborer is entitled out of his earnings to just enough
food and clothing to keep the machine of his body in working order, and that when that machine
becomes disarranged or worn out, he must go to the almshouse.

In the United States, so far as the question does not lie outside of the powers of the State
or general Government, so far as those powers can be used fairly to adjust the question, methods
of adjustment will fall within the lines relating to revenue, currency, corporations, police
regulations. The settlement of the intricate problem and of that immensely important one, will
not be added to by flagrant assaults on public authority, nor by the interference by bodies
or individuals with the free right of every single workingman to work for whatever he pleases
and for whomever he pleases and as many hours as he pleases; nor by the confiscation of real
or personal property. And on the other hand that question will not be solved nor aided in its
solution by police interference with the right of free assembly and discussion, nor by police
interference with the right to form organizations open or secret, nor by police interference
with the right of laboring men to combine for their own benefit if they keep within the limits
of the law. On the other hand, I dissent in toto from some of the sentiments expressed in the
letter of Mr. Hewitt. [Abram S. Hewitt, Mayor of the City of New York.] This question will
only be settled by the people at the ballot-box and by the enactment of such laws as will fairly
distribute the net earnings which labor and capital combine to make.

Gentlemen, let us who have borne the heat and burden of the Civil War, commit it and its issues
to the past, and join the incoming generation in settling this great industrial question in
such a way as will be just to all, and best for the masses of the people. The South has always
produced great statesmen. It was her peerless and immortal son whose love of the people and
whose faith in their power of self-government did most to establish and animate our free institutions.
And again let the New South send forth other statesmen armed with the power and animated with
the spirit of Jefferson, [Applause.]

FREDERIC WILLIAM FARRAR

POET AND PAINTER

[Speech of Frederic W. Farrar, D.D., at the banquet of the Royal
  Academy, London, May 3, 1884. He was at that time Canon and Archdeacon
  of Westminster, and in 1895 became Dean of Canterbury. The President,
  Sir Frederic Leighton, in introducing the speaker said: "In literature
  as in science a different side of our subject is each year brought
  into prominence according to the guest who does us the honor to
  respond to it. To-night I have the pleasure to call on an accomplished
  and eloquent divine, a writer whose sentences are pictures and his
  language rich with color and who is known to you not only by his books
  on the most sacred subjects, but also by the valuable chapters which
  he has contributed to the study of language, the venerable Archdeacon
  Farrar."]

MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:--I have no pretension to be regarded as an adequate representative
of English Literature, but the toast itself is one which could never be omitted at any banquet
of the Royal Academy. The artist and the man of letters, though they differ in their gifts
and in their methods, are essentially united in feeling and in purpose. They appeal to the
same emotions; they enforce the same lessons; they illustrate the same truths; they labor for
the same objects. The common aim of both is the emancipation and free development of our spiritual
nature. The humblest artist as he reads the great works written by men of genius in all ages,--the
humblest man of letters as year after year he has the delight of gazing on these splendidly
illuminated walls--may claim that he belongs to one and the same great brotherhood--the brotherhood
of those who have consistently labored to cheer, to bless and to elevate mankind. Turner called
himself the "author" not the artist of his pictures; and indeed, writing and painting are but
different forms of that one eternal language of which not even Babel could confound the significance.
There is hardly a single work in this Exhibition which does not illustrate the close connection
between literature and art.

Landscape painting has always been the chief glory of our English school, and what are the
great poets of all ages but landscape painters, and what are the best landscape painters but
poets? Alike they reproduce for us aspects of nature translated into human thoughts and tinged
with human emotion. When Homer shows us bees swarming out of the hollow rock and hanging in
grapelike clusters on the blossoms of spring; when Æschylus flashes upon us the unnumbered
laughter of the sea-waves; when Virgil in a single line paints for us the silvery Galæsus flowing
now under dark boughs, and now through golden fields; when Dante bids us gaze on a sky which
is of the sweet color of the Eastern sapphire; when Wordsworth points us to the daffodils tossing
in the winds of March beside the dancing waves of the lake; when Tennyson shows us "the gummy
chestnut buds that glisten in the April blue;" when even in prose Mr. Ruskin produces scenes
and sunsets as gorgeous as those of his own Turner--what are they but landscape painters.

Again, how many memorable scenes of history are inseparable in our minds alike, and almost
equally, from the descriptions of the writer or the conceptions of the artist? Shall we ever
think of the execution of Mary Queen of Scots without recalling Mr. Froude's description of
her, as she stood, a blood-red figure on the black-robed scaffold? Shall we ever think of Monmouth
pleading for his life with James II, without remembering the picture which hung last year upon
these walls? Is there no affinity between novelist and our many painters of ordinary scenes,
with their kindred endeavor to shed light and beauty on the hopes and fears, the duties and
sorrows of human life? Nay, even if the preacher and the divine may claim any part in the domain
of letters, they, too, look to the artist for the aid and inspiration which, in their turn,
they lend to him. Which of us can ever read the words, "These are the wounds with which I was
wounded in the house of my friends," or, "Behold, I stand at the door and knock," without being
helped to realize their meaning by the pathetic allegories of Mr. Millais and Mr. Holman Hunt?
And if, sir, you will pardon the allusion, the verse, "Oh! had I the wings of a dove," is in
my own mind henceforth inseparably associated, not only with the melody of Mendelssohn, in
which we seem to see the dove hovering, as it were, in a cloud of golden music, but also with
the picture I saw many years ago in this room, of a weary king sitting on his palace roof,
his hair sable silvered, and his crown laid humbly upon the parapet beside him, whose eyes
wistfully follow the flight of a flock of doves towards the twilight sky.

 "High is our calling, friends! creative art,
  (Whether the instruments of words she use
  Or pencil pregnant with ethereal hues,)
  Demands the service of a mind and heart
  Though sensitive, yet in their weakest part
  Heroically fashioned--to infuse
  Faith in the whispers of the lonely muse,
  While the whole world seems adverse to desert
  Great is the glory, for the strife was hard."

[Cheers.]

JOHN R. FELLOWS

NORTH AND SOUTH

[Speech of Col. John R. Fellows at the third annual banquet of the New
  York Southern Society, New York City, February 22, 1889. Col. John C.
  Calhoun, President of the Society, said, in introducing him. "Now,
  gentlemen, the next toast is: 'The Day We Celebrate.' I have been an
  Arkansas traveller. We have here with us to-night as our guest another
  who has also been an Arkansas traveller, but he has come on to this
  great metropolis and located here, and to-day voices the sentiment of
  a vast portion of our population. We now propose to hear from the Hon.
  John R. Fellows."]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE SOUTHERN SOCIETY, AND THEIR GUESTS:--I have just come from
a banquet board, the twenty-second of February gathering of a society over which for some time
past I have had the honor of presiding, and which, therefore, commanded my first allegiance
to-night. It is not often that I am accustomed to appear in the attitude of an apologist when
called upon to respond to a sentiment such as you have assigned to me to-night, for it would
be but the affectation of modesty to say that I have been unaccustomed to positions of this
kind; yet I do feel something of reluctance in your presence to-night, at the first banquet
of your society which I have done myself the honor of attending. I do feel some hesitation
in attempting to respond to a toast which includes so much, and is so large in its scope as
the one your partiality has given to me. It is altogether unexpected, for I had announced to
your committee that my presence here would be of exceedingly limited duration, as I am compelled
to leave your midst to visit another gathering, where I have other duties to perform to-night.

Yet I shall not hesitate to say something in response to the toast. He must be very far less
than imbued with sentiments of love for his country and of a just conception of its greatness,
who can fail to have something of that sentiment awakened upon an occasion like this, or in
the presence of such a toast as you have given me.

I congratulate you, Mr. President, upon the auspicious character of this gathering. The youngest
of all the societies which have now arisen to prominence in our midst, you give tokens in your
infancy of what your future greatness is to be. It is exceedingly gratifying to hear a statement
of your prosperity which insures for you so much of the future, confers so much of hope and
promise upon your society as that to which we have listened to-night.

Especially is it gratifying to know of your financial condition; "the society owes nothing."
In that respect the society differs radically from each of its individual members. [Laughter.]
It is a Southern characteristic to owe all you can, to pay if you possibly can. There is a
sentiment of honor about the Southerner that induces him to pay if he possibly can; but there
is a sentiment of chivalry which always actuates him to contract debts without any reference
whatever. [Laughter.] Having started your society on a basis so different from that which characterizes
the units of the society is an evidence of how you have become permeated and tinctured with
Yankee influences. I am glad to hear of your financial prosperity. It is a good augury, a hopeful
sign of the success which awaits your efforts.

You have called upon me to respond to the toast of "The Day we Celebrate." I should rather
have listened to what would be said of that toast from the lips of the eloquent Virginian who
so admirably represents the State that was the birthplace of Washington, whose personal character
and whose family have given so much of additional lustre and glory to the State. [Applause
and cheers for General Lee.]

I may not venture, gentlemen, upon a review of the character of Washington, upon all that his
life, and services, and influence meant to the world. The world, in the language of another,
knows that history by heart. An hundred and fifty-seven years ago, I believe, this day, he
was born. He lived almost the full age allotted to man, but he crowded that narrow life with
deeds that would have rendered illustrious and immortal the history of a thousand years. He
gave to the world an impetus, he impressed upon it a character and force, he gave it a conception
of new power, of solidity of judgment, of strength of character, of unbending and unyielding
integrity, of high devotion to principle, of just conception of duty, of patriotism and heroic
resolve in the midst of temptation to wander and be subservient, of self-abnegation, of sacrifices
for the benefit of others, such as would have adorned and rendered immortal--I repeat--the
history of the lives of ten thousand ordinary men. An hundred years have passed since Washington,
crowned with the honors of the successful chieftain, having led his country through the turmoil
of seven years of blood and strife, in these streets and under these skies was crowned with
the highest civic triumph this Republic can bestow upon its citizen.

And to-night we come to inquire less, perhaps, of Washington's history, of Washington's influence
and character--for every child knows that--than we do of the country of which Washington was
so conspicuous a part. It seems to me, gentlemen, that the great national holiday we celebrate,
the Fourth of July, is the most significant of all holidays in the history of all the nations
of the world. What does it typify, sirs? What does it signify to us? Your chairman has said
that we have had an hundred years of national history. It is a little less than an hundred
years since we inaugurated our first President. The Fourth of July does not celebrate the establishment
of the independence of the United States; it marks but the beginning of the strife instead
of its successful close. It was at the outset of the Revolutionary struggle that the Colonies
threw down that gauge which defied all tradition, which stamped upon all past history, which
mocked at ancient dogmas and hoary traditions, which introduced upon earth an entirely new
and distinctive doctrine! Before that time men had fought for the realization of noble purposes
and high aims; they had fought to win succor from distressful conditions; they had fought for
relief against oppression; but they had fought for these only as the gaining of a boon and
a privilege from powers that were; and everywhere it was conceded that there was upon earth
a class of men ordained by Providence to rule, and that the vassal's obedience was the inheritance
of the many. And when men rose up in their might to fight upon the plains of Runnymede, in
earnest contest, for ancient rights, for ancient privileges, it was after all only asking something
of the grace of the sovereign, and no one denied his absolute power to withhold or to grant
it as he would. But the colonies threw down this defiance to earth--that there was no heaven-ordained
class to govern men; that man, by virtue of his existence, by reason of his creation, was a
sovereign in his own right; and that in these latter days all just rights in government were
derived, not from the will of the ruler, but from the consent of the governed. [Applause.]

It was a new doctrine, I repeat, and if it could be successfully maintained there was no foundation
strong enough for a throne to rest securely upon! And so all the startled nations rose up to
oppose it, this innovation of all that had been in the preceding centuries; but guided by that
star, led on by the resolute courage, the steadfast integrity of Washington, our fathers went
on and on in pursuit of this doctrine, in quest of this precious boon, on through blood and
toil, on when the struggle seemed like the very madness of despair, on and on when hope seemed
to have fled, but patriotism remained; on over trembling dynasties and crumbling thrones, until
they wrested that jewel of their love from the reluctant hand of a sullen king, and set it
to glitter forever upon the brow of a new-born nation. [Applause.] Auspicious day, which an
hundred years ago proclaimed both civil and religious liberty to all the populations of the
earth! To-day we have set four other stars in our national heaven. [Applause.] Through all
the years we shall go on adding to the glories of the constellation, each one with a radiance
of its own, each one with an orbit of its own, but all swinging in delightful harmony in that
larger orbit within which we recognize our common country, our Federal Union. [Applause.]

What did Washington do for us? Look around you! I cannot but say, as that monument in St. Paul's
says of the architect of that splendid pile, Sir Christopher Wren. All of him that could die
sleeps under the marble, but above his mouldering ashes there is this inscription: "Here lies
the body of Sir Christopher Wren, architect of St. Paul's. Reader, would you see his monument,
then look around you." [Applause.] There could be no higher evidence of the grandeur and greatness,
the strength and character of the man and of his mind, than to point to the works he did. So
we say of Washington. We have had an hundred years of experience in the form of government
that his sword conquered for us, and that his statesman-like mind fashioned and controlled
at the outset. The guidance he gave us we have never lost; the teachings he inculcated we cherish
as dearly to-day as when they were uttered. Nay! nay! his memory and his fame grow brighter
as the years recede, and as we get away from the frailties and foibles which attach to the
weakness of our common humanity, even in the person of the strongest. As we get away it is
like moving from some grand mountain peak. As you go away you see its symmetrical form rise
clear in the clouds, with the eternal blue around the summit, with all its harsh and rugged
outlines obliterated by distance; it is there in its perfect grandeur, in its completeness
and beauty, without any of the weaknesses or foibles which attach to it.

I think there is no better evidence of the character and influence of Washington upon the American
mind than what has transpired during and since the war. Look, sir, at the South of which you
spoke! She was largely a lethargic people prior to the war. She lived in luxury; she was in
the midst of a condition which yielded to her abundant support, and eliminated from her life
the necessity of hard labor and earnest effort. The war came. We were bound around with a cordon
we could not break; we were encircled by fire; we were thrown upon our resources. What resulted?
Ah, sir, at once there leaped into life, with a splendor and with a giant's strength such as
the world, such as ourselves had never conceived of, the true manhood of the South. Every man
became a laborer, every woman a worker. There was nothing that the necessities of our life
demanded that we did not fashion with our own hands. Deprived of all support, of all assistance
from the outside world, we dug from our hills, and wrested from our soil, and evoked from resources
the measure and extent of which we had never dreamed before, whatever was necessary for the
support of the loved ones at home and the armies we maintained in the field. [Applause.] We
illustrated a heroism and valor which is the admiration of the world, which is the highest
pride and admiration of our gallant adversaries. They conquered no ignoble foe; the field was
worthy even of their efforts. And when the war was over, the terrible strife had ended, while
yet the land was filled with mourning, while every church on every Sunday in this North was
crowded with women wearing the sable garments of woe for sons, for brothers, for husbands,
for the loved of every kind and condition who were sleeping their last sleep on Southern hillsides--how
did the spirit of Washington, the toleration, the kindness, the generosity, the magnanimity
which in all his life he breathed out toward all exhibit itself here in the North? They took
us by the hand. They lifted us to our feet again, or assisted in doing so. They gave us the
recognition which one gallant man extends to another whose heroism and courage he has tested;
they wrote the title of American Citizen upon our brows again, and told us to go on as parts
of the Union, with our loves and hopes bound up in its common destiny. [Applause.]

The spirit of Washington has never died. The courage of Washington has never died. This war
was a vital necessity--let us recognize it. This war was an ordination of Providence--let us
confess it. There were issues distracting and dividing this country which no legislation, no
government, and no decrees of courts could settle. At one time or another they had to be fought
to their final conclusion upon the battle-field. When the contest was ended it eliminated from
our national condition every element of strife, and welded us together in a bond ten thousandfold
stronger and better than we had known before. [Applause.]

Now, what remains? Ah! so much remains that can never die! There are Northern soldiers here,
there are Southern soldiers here. We stood face to face through the bitterness of that conflict;
we stand heart to heart now. [Applause.] Whenever this country shall call upon her sons to
do battle against a common foe, when North and South Carolina with Massachusetts and Vermont,
when Georgia and Ohio, when all the South and all the North march side by side in behalf of
Old Glory, then at the bivouac, then around our council fires, the sons will recall the valorous
deeds their fathers wrought upon either side and under opposing flags during the civil strife,
as the loudest call and the strongest inspiration to awaken effort in behalf of the rescued
and re-united country. [Applause.] Has it not always been so? If you would awaken a flame of
martial life in the sons of France, appeal to them as those whose eagles flew in triumph above
Wagram, and Austerlitz, and Lodi Bridge, and bore upon the outstretched wings the glorious
destinies of her favored child of fortune, her thunderbolt of war! If you would awaken Caledonia
to battle, appeal to her sons as descendants of--

 "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled,
  Scots whom Bruce has often led,"

and at once, from Loch Lomond, from Ben Nevis, and from the Grampian Hills, her kilted warriors
will troop to death as to a feast, stimulated by the recollection of the glorious deeds of
those from whose loins they sprang! And hereafter, sir, if eloquence shall want a theme to
awaken her sublimest efforts, or poetry shall seek some shrine at which to offer its most harmonious
numbers, orator and bard will not go back to the romantic period of Agincourt and Crecy, when
Henry V led his armies to victory, and Douglas poured the vials of his wrath across Northumbrian
plains--no need to go back there--but they will tell of the deeds of the glorious men who drew
their swords at Lee's, or Johnston's, or Longstreet's bidding, or of those who flamed the demigods
of war where Grant and Sherman and Sheridan led [applause]; of those whose camp-fires shone
out on the dark walls of Blue Ridge, or lit up with their glow the waters of Gauley and of
Shenandoah; of those who sleep in graves consecrated forevermore, where the starts look down
to-night through shadowy trees in Spottsylvanian woods and Stafford groves; of the long lines
whose musketry rang out their sublime peal in the early gray of that April morning at Shiloh,
whose fierce battle-shout at Chancellorsville or in the Wilderness mingled with the farewell
sounds that broke on Jackson's and on Sedgwick's ears, sounds scarcely stilled ere the acclamations
of angels woke them to sublimer greeting. [Applause.]

We may safely trust the story of the unequalled valor, the peerless chivalry of those years,
on whichever side they fought, to the verdict which the unprejudiced future will utter. But
I know if ever this country shall ask us again to flock to her standard and to do duty for
her cause, there is no stronger inspiration that can be invoked, there is no enthusiasm that
can be created or awakened that will lead men so quickly into the ranks of the foe and hold
them so steadily in the face of death as to talk to each other of the deeds their fathers did
when they stood as foes battling for what they thought was right. [Applause.] Nay! out of our
very strife we have grown strong. The magnanimity of the conquering party has fused and welded
us together in one irresistible, unbreakable party. No internal dissension shall disturb us
henceforth; and the world arrayed in arms against us we do not fear. And all of this we derive
from the teachings, the heroism, the courage, the patience, the faith, the example of the fathers,
at the head of whom stood the illustrious one in whose behalf we celebrate this day. [Applause
and cheers for Colonel Fellows.]

DAVID DUDLEY FIELD

THE TELEGRAPH

[Speech of David Dudley Field at the dinner given in honor of Samuel F.
  B. Morse, New York City, December 27, 1863.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--In the early days of the electric telegraph, a proposition was
made that it should be called the Morseograph. I cannot but think that that would have been
a distinctive and appropriate designation; thus, in all future time, when the thing should
be mentioned, recalling the history of its origin. But the name of the inventor is no secret;
and the world will ratify the judgment we pronounce to-night that, as benefactor and discoverer,
his name will be immortal.

If we were to measure the future of the telegraph by what it has already accomplished, we should
predict for it an indefinite extension. Less than twenty years ago, the first line was built
in the United States. Though it extended only from Washington to Baltimore, it was begun in
doubt and completed with difficulty. Thence it stretched itself out first to Philadelphia and
New York, then to other principal cities, and afterward along the great thoroughfares. On the
other side of the sea it advanced from city to city, and from one market to another.

At first laid with hesitation underneath the rivers, it was next carried beneath narrow seas,
and at last plunged into the ocean and passed from continent to continent. Compare its feeble
beginning with its achievement of to-day. Think of the uncertainty with which, after weary
months upon dusty Maryland roads, the last link of that first line was closed, and then think
of the exultation with which great ships in mid-ocean brought up from the bottom of the sea
a cable lost two miles down, and the problem was forever solved, not only that an ocean-telegraph
cable was possible, but that it could not be so lost as that it might not be found.

Standing in the presence of the great inventor, I am constrained to congratulate him upon the
fulness of his triumph as he remembers the early effort, and contrasts it with the marvels
of this night in this hall. That little instrument, no larger than the clock upon the chamber
mantel, and making as little noise, is yet speaking to both America and Europe; and what it
says will be printed before the dawn, and laid at morning under the eyes of millions of readers.
Did I say before the dawn? It will meet the dawn in its circuit before it reaches the confines
of eastern Europe. In the opposite quarter, we know that the message which has just left us
for the West will outstrip the day. Even while I have been speaking, the message has crossed
the Mississippi, passed the workmen laying the farthest rail of the Pacific road, bounded over
the Sierra Nevada, and dashed into the plains of California, as the last ray of to-day's sun
is fading from the shore, and the twilight is falling upon the Pacific Sea.

It is, however, not alone its history which justifies us in predicting for the telegraph indefinite
extension. Its essential character must sooner or later carry it to every part of the habitable
globe. Of all the agencies yet vouchsafed to man, it is the most accessible and the most potent.
While the machinery itself is simple and cheap, the element from which it is fed is abundant
and all-pervading. It is in the heaven above, in the earth beneath, and in the water under
the earth. You take a little cup and pass into it a slender wire, when lo! there comes to it
a spark from air and water, from the cloud and the solid earth, which the highest mountains
cannot stop, nor the deepest seas drown, as it dashes on its fiery way, indifferent whether
its errand be to the next village or to the antipodes. No other voice can speak to the far
and near at the same time. No other hand can write a message which may be delivered within
the same hour at Quebec and at Moscow. By no other means may you converse at once with the
farmer of Illinois and the merchant of Amsterdam, with the German on the Danube and the Arab
under his palm.

To the use of such an instrument there can be no limit but the desire of man to converse with
man. If from this populous and opulent capital you would speak with any inhabitant of either
hemisphere, you have here an agent which may be brought to do your bidding. If any, however
distant, desire to speak with us, they have these means at their command. How great will be
the effect of all this upon the civilization of the human race, I do not pretend to foresee.
But this I foresee, as all men may, that the necessities of governments, the thirst for knowledge,
and the restless activity of commerce will make the telegraph girdle the earth and bind it
in a network of electric wire.

The Atlantic, the most dangerous and difficult of all the seas, has been crossed. In the Pacific
you may pass easily from island to island, till you reach the shores of Eastern Asia. There
an American company will take it up and extend it from side to side of the central Flowery
Land. And an English company is about to cross the straits which divide Australia from the
elder continent. Indeed, I think that I declare not only what is possible but what will come
to pass within the next decade, that there will be a telegraph-office wherever there is now
a post-office, and that messages by the telegraph will pass almost as frequently as messages
by the mail.

Then the different races and nations of men will stand, as it were in the presence of one another.
They will know one another better. They will act and react upon one another. They may be moved
by common sympathies and swayed by common interests. Thus the electric spark is the true Promethean
fire, which is to kindle human hearts. Then will men learn that they are brethren, and that
it is not less their interest than their duty to cultivate good-will and peace throughout all
the earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY CONNECTICUT

[Speech of David Dudley Field at a complimentary dinner given by the
  Saturday Night Club to the judges of the Supreme Court, New York City,
  April 5, 1890. Clark Bell, President of the Club, said in the course
  of his introductory remarks: "It is our grand good fortune to have
  with us to-night the Nestor of the American bar, who was born in
  Connecticut, and whose useful life has covered nearly all the years of
  our present century. His eye has seen much that is far in the past,
  and beside that love and affection he bears to his birthplace are the
  reminiscences of the men conspicuous in the judicial annals of his
  native State, who have been upon the stage of action during the
  eventful years of the present century. When we shall have separated,
  when this banquet shall be but a memory and a reminiscence, that which
  will give us most pleasure, the reminiscence we shall prize among the
  highest, will be that of the presence of the Hon. David Dudley Field,
  whose illustrious name I will connect with the toast--'Reminiscences
  of the Bench and Bar of Connecticut'"]

MR. PRESIDENT:--When you did me the honor to invite me to this banquet, I was quick to accept
the invitation, because I expected to meet the judges of my native State, of which I bear so
pleasant a remembrance. I find, however, representatives from other seats of justice come to
greet the judges of Connecticut. You have here a judge from the Dominion of Canada, over which
shines the mild light of Arcturus, and on the other side a representative from Texas where
glows, not the Lone Star of other days, but the bright constellation of the Southern Cross.
You have judges from the neighboring State of New Jersey, from the further State of Pennsylvania,
and from Delaware, about which I may use the language of John Quincy Adams, speaking of Rhode
Island: "She is to be measured, not by the smallness of her stature, but by the loftiness of
her principles." All these eminent judges are here to join in the salutation to the judges
of Connecticut, and to them therefore our attention is to be chiefly directed.

I am old enough to remember the judges of Connecticut when they sat under the authority of
the Colonial charter, that charter which was hidden in the famous oak of Hartford to escape
seizure by an emissary of the King of England. I was present at the trial in Haddam, my native
town, of a man for murder. Trumbull was the judge, that Trumbull who wrote "McFingal," and
who, being elected for a single year, as was then the rule, was re-elected as long as he lived.
He was neatly dressed, wearing ruffles in the bosom, and at the wrists, and was in trim knee-breeches.

I remember this incident of the trial. The crowd was so great that the court was adjourned
from the court house to the church, then called the meeting-house. The jurors sat in the square
pews. One of the jurors, a respectable farmer of the neighborhood, thinking that he had detected
some mistake of the counsel rose to correct him, when the counsel retorted that the juror was
the one mistaken, and added: "Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall." The
prisoner was convicted and was hanged at Middletown. I went up to see the execution, and when
I reached the place trained bands were marching through the streets, playing their music as
if for a great festivity. A sermon was preached to a crowded house, and the prisoner was then
taken, dressed in a shroud, to a hill near by, and in the presence of thousands of spectators
was executed. These scenes were of course impressed strongly on the memory of a boy. I remember
the session of the county court at Haddam, when the judges, headed by the sheriff, marched
in order from the tavern to the court house. I remember seeing in court David Daggett, wearing
white top boots, and I met Roger Minot Sherman, driving into the village in a sulky. I remember
Staples and Hungerford. The latter went into court one day with a Bible under his arm, to show
from the first chapter of Genesis, as authority in an insurance case, that the day began at
sunset, "and the evening and the morning were the first day."

In those days party feeling ran high in Connecticut, between the Democrats and the Federalists--"Demos"
and "Feds," as they were called for shortness--and contempt as well. Let me recount two anecdotes:
The Rev. Dr. Backus, riding along the highway, stopped at a brook to water his horse, when
another rider came up from the opposite side, and thus addressed the good man: "Good-morning,
Mr. Minister." The latter replied, "Good-morning, Mr. Democrat. How did you know that I was
a minister?" "By your dress. How did you know that I was a Democrat?" "By your address."

At another time Dr. Backus, being prosecuted for a libel upon Mr. Jefferson, was taken from
his home to Hartford to be bailed. The minister and the marshal rode of course, for that was
not the heyday of vehicles. The minister rode very fast, so fast that the marshal called out
after him: "Dr. Backus, Dr. Backus, you ride as if the devil were after you." The Doctor turning
his head replied, "Just so!"

Mr. President, Connecticut has been often abused for the frugality and thrift of its people,
and called in derision the Nutmeg State. I remember hearing that a New Yorker once put into
his will an injunction against any child of his being educated in Connecticut.

An Episcopal clergyman removing from New York into a Connecticut town was actually boycotted.
The people would not sell him anything to eat, and I believe he returned for food and shelter
to the hither side of Byram River. I remember such a joke as this current in New York; that
they had a singular habit in Connecticut, when a man cast up his accounts with his neighbor
and gave him a note for the balance, he used to exclaim: "Thank God, that debt is paid." Some
of the people have singular tastes now and then; as for example there is a hill behind East
Haddam that used to be called "Stagger-all-hill," but inquiring the other day, I was told its
name was now "Mount Parnassus."

They may say all these things if they please, but Connecticut has no public debt, or a very
small one at most, and her people are industrious, educated, polite to strangers, jealous of
their rights and brave enough to defend them. I remember hearing Mrs. Fanny Kemble say, some
years ago, of the twelve hundred thousand people then inhabiting Massachusetts, that, taking
them all in all, she thought they were the foremost twelve hundred thousand people living together
in the world, and I can speak in similar terms of the inhabitants of Connecticut, as really
a part of the same people.

In conclusion, Mr. President, may I without affectation utter these words of love for my native
State, its scenery and its people. Flow on, gentle river, shine on, rugged and wooded hills,
smile on, green meadows basking in the sun, and you, brave people, who dwell amid these scenes,
prove yourselves ever worthy of your progenitors, and flaunt high as you will, the old banner
with its hopeful and trustful motto--qui transtulit sustinet.

FRANCIS M. FINCH

THE OFFICE OF THE LAW

[Speech of Francis M. Finch on assuming the chair of the President of
  the New York State Bar Association, at their annual dinner, Albany,
  N. Y., January 17, 1900. The ex-President, Walter J. Logan, introduced
  him in the following words: "Before I introduce to you Judge Finch, I
  want to say just one word for myself. The New York State Bar
  Association has treated me with distinguished consideration, and I
  shall ever regard every member of the Association as my personal
  friend, and among the pleasantest experiences of my life, which I am
  only just commencing, that the lawyers of the State of New York
  thought me worthy of the position which I am now surrendering. Allow
  me to introduce to you Judge Finch. [Applause.] I want to introduce to
  you, Judge Finch, the most splendid body of men in the American
  nation,--the New York State Bar Association. Judge Finch is now
  President."]

GENTLEMEN:--I regard it as a very great honor to be called upon to preside over the work of
this Association for the coming year. I do not know of any other temptation which would have
drawn me away from the quiet of my ordinary life into an arena so public and so open to critical
observation. It is entirely natural that one who has crossed the line of threescore and ten
should covet a life of rest, or at least some restful work which makes no heavy demand upon
brain and nerves, but I have received from the Bar of the State of New York, in the years that
have gone by, and which seem to me now almost like a dream, I have received at their hands
so much kindness and courtesy, so much of that encouragement and generous approval which makes
the hardest work a pleasure and happiness, that it seemed to me almost ungrateful and ungracious
to refuse the duty which was sought to be imposed upon me, and so I have surrendered, with
such grace as I may, and will endeavor, to the best of my ability, to push forward the work
of this Association. [Applause.]

Indeed, gentlemen, I confess, as over our cups confessions are sometimes excusable and in order--I
confess that it is something of a comfort not to be quite forgotten. [Applause.] It is the
lot of the average judge--I don't mean by that these old associates of mine, sitting by me,
who are a long way above the average [applause]--it is the lot of the average judge to disappear
from the public memory very soon after his work is done. Occasionally there is one who makes
his appearance in the flush of some new and remarkable era, and fastens his name to its beginning.
Occasionally there are others who do some excellent work, not altogether judicial, and in that
manner keep their memories alive; but the most of us, when our work is done, step down into
the mist and the darkness of a very swift and prompt oblivion. And if you, gentlemen of the
Bar, have chosen for me to draw back the curtains a little, to dissipate somewhat the mist
and the darkness, it is just like you; it is only another of those kindly deeds which it is
pleasant to remember, and for which I am grateful, and glad to have the opportunity of saying
so. [Applause.]

I wished to confine what I have to say to-night simply to these words of acknowledgment, but
the thought comes to me, and I think I must give it expression, that there never was a year
in the history of this nation when the work of the intelligent, of the able and of the scholarly
lawyer was more imperatively demanded in the interest of the nation and of the race, than this
year which now opens before us. [Applause.] I have long been of the conviction that the law
never leads civilization, but always follows in its wake; that its purpose and its object is
to regulate and control the relations of men with each other, and their relations to the State;
but those relations must first come, must first be established before there is anything for
the law to regulate. Progress goes on; new inventions are made; new relations between men occur,
and it is the office and the purpose of the law to march behind them, to regulate and order
and systematize them, and produce, if need be, justice out of injustice; and to-day beyond
the questions of taxation, which are an almost insoluble problem, we have already the beginnings
in the metropolis of the State of an underground railway, likely to open and introduce questions
as difficult and as remarkable as those which attended the elevated railways. We have a mass
of colossal trusts, as they are called, combinations of capital, in an extraordinary degree,
with which some of you have already been wrestling, and others of you will be called upon to
confront or defend. Beyond that the student of international law is about to be obliged to
look away from home and reconsider his foundations, to reflect anew upon the conclusions to
which he has come in the application of the questions of what is contraband and what is not
in the light of an extending commerce. Beyond that, again, and what interested me, perhaps,
more than it may you, I saw the other day in one of our leading city journals, a statement
which I have been able to verify, that the German nation on the first day of January in this
year, set in operation a new Prussian code, which substituted for the civil law and the Latin
doctrine the Teutonic law of Germany. I myself cannot read the German language; but, if there
are some among you, within the sound of my voice, who are capable of doing that, I set you
the task between now and one year from to-day of studying and examining that new Prussian code,
which must be a marked departure, and giving us the benefit of your knowledge and your judgment.
And, beyond that still, the nation itself stands to-day at the parting of the ways; stands
to-day upon the verge of a new and most unexpected and remarkable destiny, and, I repeat, that
there never was, I think, there never will be, gentlemen, another year in which the labor and
the study and the thought of the scholarly and intelligent and learned lawyer could be more
needed or more in demand. [Applause.]

Let me add one word, not quite so serious, and that, with reference to my friend who has been
your President during the past year, and who, for his patient industry in your behalf, for
the manner in which he has conducted your affairs and looked after your interests, deserves
the thanks of this Association, which, in your name and behalf, I venture to give him. [Applause.]
What I want to say, however, outside of that, is a little bit in the line of complaint. He
has undertaken to take away from me my surplus over and above ten millions of dollars [laughter],
and give it to the State of New York. He says in justification that he thinks and believes
that it would be for the best, but, with all deference to his opinion, I venture to say that
I would rather trust my children to spend that surplus than the average legislature. [Laughter.]
More than that, and the suggestion will relieve my friend somewhat, I do not intend to have
any surplus over his ten millions, not if I know it. When I reach that happy point, and find
that my inventory is running above it, I propose quietly to take that surplus and hand it over,
first, on one side, and then on the other, to my children, and that beautiful inheritance law
of his will have no application to me whatever. [Laughter.] Nevertheless, while I disagree
with him about those things, and think I see my way out of the difficulty, I pardon all of
it, because he has promised me faithfully on his honor that until the close of the festivities
he would remain your President, and when in the end he bade you good-night he would do it for
me, as well as for himself, and wish you each and all a happy journey to your homes and a safe
return to these same tables one year from to-day. [Applause.]

JOHN FOORD

THE LAND O' CAKES

[Speech of John Foord at the 143d annual banquet of the St. Andrew's
  Society of the State of New York, December 1, 1899. The speech was
  delivered in response to the toast, "The Land O' Cakes."]

MR. PRESIDENT, MEMBERS AND GUESTS OF THE ST. ANDREW'S SOCIETY:--I suppose there are some in
this company who would find it hard to tell the difference between a bear bannock and a pease
scone. For the benefit of such, I may be permitted to say that there was no suggestion of fancy
bread about the "cakes" with which the name of Scotland has been associated. They were very
plain bread, indeed, and quite as destitute of leaven as that which the Children of Israel
were condemned to eat in the wilderness. The only sweetening they had came from the fact that
they were the fruit of honest toil; and hunger, as you know, is "gude kitchen." Together with
the "hale-some parritch, chief o' Scotia's food," they formed the staff of life of a people
whose tastes were as simple as their ideals were high. "We cultivate literature on a little
oatmeal," was the motto proposed by Sydney Smith for the "Edinburgh Review"; and, jocular as
was the suggestion, it touches the keynote of Scottish character and history. For, what have
we not done on a little oatmeal? Our fathers fought on it, worked on it, thought and studied
on it, wrote ballads and preached sermons on it, and created the Scotland, kinship with which
we are all so proud to claim, on a diet chiefly composed of oat cakes and oatmeal porridge.
On such frugal fare, they subdued a harsh and stubborn soil and made it yield its yearly toll
of harvest; they took tribute of wool and mutton from the moorland and the hillside, and of
hide and beef from the fallow lea; they levied on loch and sea to support their fisher-folk;
and kept the rock and the reel and the flying shuttle busy to clothe themselves with homespun,
so that the old Arbroath toast became a very epitome of the vocations of that primitive time:
"The life o' man, the death o' fish, the shuttle, and the plough; corn, horn, linen, yarn,
lint, and tarry 'oo." Nay more, defying the rigors of an ungenial climate, they set themselves,
in their dour and stubborn way, to make flowers grow where Nature never intended such flowers
to be; and they became so cunning in the mystery of Adam's art that the Scottish gardener took
the place of direction wherever men laid out flower-beds or built greenhouses throughout the
civilized world.

On such simple lines of industry were laid the foundations of the material greatness of Scotland--its
mines, its furnaces, its machine shops, its shipyards, its flax and jute mills, and all the
other forms of productive energy that have placed this little country and its few millions
of people in the front rank of the mechanical activity of the world. But is it because of such
triumphs as these that the name of Scotland appeals so powerfully to the heart and the imagination
of men? I think not. Had our race been distinguished only for its care of the bawbees, for
its indomitable perseverance, its capacity to endure hardship, its adaptiveness, and its enterprise,
I trow that the passionate pilgrim would not turn so eagerly to Scotland to cull the flowers
of poesy and breathe the air of romance. And remember, our Scottish people are rather what
the country has made them, than the country is what it has been made by them. I heard Governor
Roosevelt say the other evening that the State of New York was merely another name for the
aggregate of the people in it, and I could not help thinking that there must be in the Dutch
blood a certain deficiency of imagination. Can you imagine a Scotsman, however matter-of-fact
and commonplace, offering such a definition of his native land? We know the feeling that prompted
Byron to say:--

 "When I see some tall rock lift its head to the sky,
  Then I think of the hills that o'ershadow Culbean."

For, to most of us, in all our intercourse with Nature, the Scottish mind supplies a Scottish
background. There is nothing that affects me quite so powerfully as a fine sunset; but I confess
that, from all the magnificent sunsets that I have seen between the Palisades and the Rocky
Mountains, I have derived no such emotion as I have felt when, "gathering his glory for a grand
repose," the sun set behind the Grampians; and the peak of Schehallion, like a spearhead, cleft
the evening sky. Why, the Scottish exile thinks that the sun turns a kindlier face to his native
land than it does to countries less favored, like the one who sang:--

 "The sun rises bright in France,
    And fair sets he;
  But he's tint the blythe blink he had
    In my ain countrie."

We are what we are, gentlemen, because the land of our birth is "Bonnie Scotland," as well
as the "Land o' Cakes." Its beauty has entered into our blood; its majesty and sublimity have
given us a certain elevation of soul. Thus it came about that, beside the homely kailyard virtues
of our forefathers, and their stern uncompromising religious zeal, there grew up in all their
wild beauty such a profusion of the flowers of song, of poetry, and of romance that you shall
hardly find between Tweed's silver stream and where the ocean billows break in thunder on Cape
Wrath, ten square miles of Scottish ground which have not been celebrated in ballad, legend,
song or story. Whence, think you, came that affluence of melody with which every strath and
glen and carse of Scotland was vocal--melody that auld wives crooned at their spinning wheel:
lasses lilted at ewe-milking, before the dawn of day; fiddlers played at weddings and christenings;
and pipers sent echoing among the hills to inspire the march of the warlike living or sound
a lament for the heroic dead? A long line of nameless Scottish minstrels had lived and died
generations before Burns and Ferguson, Tannahill and Lady Nairne, and all the rest of our sweet
singers took the old tunes and gave them a form and vesture as immortal as their own fame.
We are called a practical, hard-headed people, and so we are; but the most enduring part of
our literature tells of the romantic ideals that Scotsmen have cherished and the chivalrous
deeds they have done. We are thought to be severely logical; and if allowance be made for our
point of view, we are that also. But the unsympathetic student of Scottish history will not
get very far with his subject by keeping steadily in mind our practicalness and our logic.
If he thinks of these alone, he will be apt to pronounce those Scotsmen fools who sacrificed
two centuries of progress for the barren, if glorious, privilege of national independence;
he will think they must have been pure fanatics who spilt their blood that they might have
Christ's Kirk and Covenant regulated in their own peculiar way; and he will hold them as mere
feather-brains who sacrificed their lands and their lives to an obstinate loyalty to the House
of Stuart. Yet it is of such unreason, if unreason it be, that the warp and the woof of the
historic annals of Scotland have been spun: it is this defiance of what the utilitarian philosopher
calls the rules of common sense, as applied to human conduct, that has given the Scottish race
their unique position among the tribes of men.

And, even in this age of steam and electricity, they will still cherish their romance. It was
but the other day that there was pointed out to the Gordon Highlanders in the Transvaal the
expediency of exchanging the garb of old Gaul for a uniform of khaki: the one would be less
of a shining mark for the enemy than the other, and, its adoption would probably result in
saving many lives. You know their decision. I think I hear them say, "All this may well be
true; but we stand by the kilt and the tartan." That, a critical world may say, is magnificent,
but it is not war. We say, magnificent or not, it is war; for the kilt and the tartan are inseparable
from the sentiment that makes these men the redoubtable soldiers they are. Take those away,
and you break their touch with a continuous tradition which transforms every man in the regiment,
be he Scottish, English or Irish, into a Gordon, with all the dash and vim and dare-devil courage
that centre around the name.

May there never come a time when the mind of our race will be closed against such a sentiment
as that! Let us go on doing our share, resolutely, faithfully, conscientiously, of the work
of the world; let us keep well to the front with the same success that we have done of yore;
but let us not forget that we owe the unconquerable spirit in us to our Auld Mither Scotland,
that it is from her breast there has been drawn the celestial ichor which has nourished genius
in the cottage as generously as in the Hall, and that has made the inheritance of the ploughman's
son more precious than a Dukedom. We shall, as your President has said, be better, and not
worse citizens of this great Republic; we shall play our part all the more worthily, in public
or private station, if every fibre of our being thrills to an auld Scotch sang, and we feel
in our inmost heart that--

 "Where the caller breezes sweep
    Across the mountain's breast,
  Where the free in soul are nurst,
    Is the land that we lo'e best."

SIMEON FORD

ME AND SIR HENRY

[Speech of Simeon Ford at a banquet given to Sir Henry Irving by the
  Lotos Club, New York City, October 29, 1899. The President, Frank R.
  Lawrence, occupied the chair.]

GENTLEMEN:--I cannot but envy you the intellectual treat in which you are revelling, in being
permitted to listen to the resistless eloquence of both me and Sir Henry Irving. It is not
often that two such stars as me and Sir Henry will consent to twinkle in the same firmament.
But your gifted President can accomplish wonders. He is what Weber and Fields[3] call a "hypnotister."

As the President has said, I am not one of the set speakers. I just blew in here, and blew
in my good money to attend this feast, like the rest of the rank and file, and now I have to
work my passage as well. I am simply put in as a filler. The President, with his awe-inspiring,
chill-producing gavel, is the "wrapper," and I am the filler; and you, who smoke, have observed
ere this that a mighty fine wrapper is often associated with a very rank filler.

If I had had about twenty minutes' warning I could have prepared a eulogy on Sir Henry, setting
forth his virtues as a man and an actor in such a way that he never would have recognized himself,
and with such eloquence that Dr. Greer [David H. Greer] would have looked like thirty cents.
But I did not get the twenty minutes, so poor Sir Henry must content himself with the few scant
bouquets with which he has already been bombarded.

A sober, able-bodied eulogizer with a good address and a boiled shirt can get a pretty steady
winter's job in this Club at board wages. I have, in my poor, weak way, eulogized several distinguished
men in this historic room, all of whom I am happy to say, are now convalescent. I eulogized
Joe Choate and he got a job at the Court of St. James; I eulogized Horace Porter, and he is
now playing one night stands at the Moulin Rouge; Dr. Depew, and he not only got sent to Washington,
but got a raise of wages at the Grand Central Depot; yet when I saw him the next day and delicately
intimated that I was yearning to view the scenic beauty of his great four track system, his
reception reminded me of the lines of Longfellow, beginning--

 "Try not the pass, the old man said
  Dark lowers the tempest overhead."

and so, instead of resting that night on a beautiful Wagner hair-mattress, I had to be content
with "excelsior."

The only man who really appreciated my efforts was dear old Joe Jefferson. When I gave him
to understand that I was anxious to see him in one of his matchless characterizations, he inquired
if I had a family that shared my anxiety, and when informed that I had, he generously tendered
all hands a pass to the family circle. The Lord loves a cheerful giver, but the Lord help any
one who strikes Joe for a free pass.

I can understand that the life of an actor must be a trying one, and success difficult to achieve,
and it must be a source of great gratification to Sir Henry to feel that he has done so much
to elevate the stage as well as the price of admission. But he deserves success, and the last
time I gave up three dollars to behold him, and afterwards, with a lot of enthusiasts, took
his horses from his carriage and dragged him in triumph two miles to his hotel, I really felt
that I had had a run for my money.

       *       *       *       *       *

A RUN ON THE BANKER

[Speech of Simeon Ford at the Annual dinner of the Manhattan Bankers of
  the New York State Bankers' Association, February 7, 1900. The
  President, Warner Van Norden, presided.]

GENTLEMEN:--As I sat here this evening, listening to the strains of that fine old Bankers'
anthem entitled "When you ain't got no money, why you needn't come around," I was thinking
what a grand idea it was for you magnates to get together once a year to exchange ideas and
settle among yourselves what shall be done, and who shall be done, and how you will do them.
Personally, I'd prefer to exchange cheques rather than ideas with many here present; not but
what the ideas are all right, but somehow, when money talks I am always a fascinated listener.

I did not come here voluntarily, but at the pressing invitation of some of my most pressing
creditors on your committee. They said Secretary Gage would be here, and Mr. J. P. Morgan,
and that without my presence the affair would seem incomplete, but that if we three got together
we could settle various perplexing financial problems right on the spot. The committee told
me to choose my own subject and they would endorse anything I would say--without recourse.
They delicately intimated, however, that any playful allusions to the City Bank better be left
unsaid; and so I can only remark:--

 "And I would that my tongue could utter,
  The thoughts that arise in me!"

and let it go at that.

I must say, however, that Secretary Gage made one serious mistake. If he had consulted me (which
he never did, although he had abundant opportunity) I would have advised him to put his money
in an institution I know about where it would have received a rousing welcome and where I could
have taken a fall out of it myself. If the price of the Custom-House had gotten into my hands,
and I'd been given twenty-four hours' start, I believe I could have given the secretary a run
for his money. But, instead, he placed it in a rich, smooth-running, well-oiled institution
where it was used in averting a panic and straightening out financial tangles, and greasing
the wheels of commerce, and similar foolishness.

This is the first opportunity I have had of meeting you Bank Presidents collectively, and when
you are thawed out. I have met most of you, individually, when you were frozen stiff. I never
supposed you could warm up, as you seem to have done, my previous impressions having been of
the "How'd you like to be the iceman" order. Sometimes I have thought I'd almost rather go
without the money than get a congestive chill in a Bank President's office, and have him gaze
into my eyes, and read the inmost secrets of my soul, and ask unfeeling questions, and pry
rudely into my past, and throw out wild suggestions about getting Mr. Astor to endorse for
me, and other similar atrocities. And even if I succeed in deceiving him he leads me, crushed,
humiliated and feeling like thirty cents, to a fly cashier, who, taking advantage of my dazed
condition, includes in my three-months' note, not only Christmas and the Fourth of July, but
St. Patrick's Day, Ash Wednesday and sixteen Sundays, so that, by the time he has deducted
the interest, what's coming to me looks like a Jaeger undershirt after its first interview
with an African blanchisseuse. That's the kind of thing the poet had in mind when he wrote--"I
know a bank whereon the wild thyme grows."

I have observed that one's reception at a bank varies somewhat with the condition of the money
market. Go in when money is easy and the President falls on your neck, calls you by your first
name, and cheerfully loans you large sums on your "Balloon Common" and your "Smoke Preferred,"
and you go on your way rejoicing. The next day, news having arrived that a Gordon Highlander
has strained a tendon in his leg while sprinting away from a Dutchman near Ladysmith, or an
Irish lady chef has sent home two pounds sterling to her family, money goes up to one hundred
and eighty per cent. a minute, and you get a note requesting you to remove your "Balloon Common"
and your "Smoke Preferred" and substitute Government Bonds therefor. And still you wonder at crime.

But if you really want to know the meaning of the terms "Marble Heart" and "Icy Eye" go into
one of these refrigerating plants for a loan when money is tight. It is prudent at such times
to wear ear-muffs and red mittens fastened together by tape so they can't be lost, for you
will need 'em.

As soon as you reach the outer air--which will be in about a second--run home and plunge the
extremities in hot water, and place a porous plaster on what remains of your self-esteem.

Bankers are too prone to judge a man by his appearance, so that the very men who need the money
most have the hardest work to get it. They are apt, especially at the City Bank, to discriminate
against the "feller" who looks rocky, in favor of the Rockafeller. Clothes do not make the
man! If they did, Hetty Green wouldn't be where she is and Russell Sage would be in the Old
Ladies' Home. If Uncle Russell had to travel on his shape, he never would see much of the world.
Yet, beneath that ragged coat there beats a heart which as a beater can't be beat--a heart
as true (so the Standard Gas people say)--as true as "steal."

But after all, Banks and Trust Companies do a lot of good in a quiet way, especially to their
directors--in a quiet way. See what a convenience some of our Trust Companies have been to
their directors of late. It would sometimes be mortifying for these directors to have to attempt
to borrow money on certain securities, in institutions with which they were not connected,
because, instead of getting the money, they might get six months.

I had intended to touch upon a few vital questions concerning finance this evening, but the
night is waning and I guess you've all been "touched" sufficiently of late, so I will restrain
myself, and give some other orator a chance to get himself disliked.

JAMES ANTHONY FROUDE

MEN OF LETTERS

[Speech of James A. Froude at the banquet of the Royal Academy, London,
  April 29, 1876. The President, Sir Francis Grant, in introducing Mr.
  Froude, said: "The next toast is 'The Interests of Literature and
  Science.' This toast is always so welcome and so highly appreciated
  that it needs no exordium from the chair. [Laughter.] From another point of view we are the most
practical and energetic portion of the community. ["Hear! [Cheers.]

MELVILLE WESTON FULLER

THE SUPREME COURT

[Speech of Melville W. Fuller at the fifth annual dinner of the New
  England Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, December 22, 1888. The
  President, Heman L. Wayland, D.D., said in introducing Justice
  Fuller:--"The reverence of New England for law and her readiness to
  make law (a readiness, perhaps our enemies will say, to make them for
  other people) naturally suggests the topic which is first on the
  programme--'New England in the Supreme Court.' I shall not enlarge
  upon the sentiment, lest I should only mar the canvas which will
  shortly be illumined by the hand of a master. The case of New England
  versus The World has long been in court; the evidence is in; the
  learned counsel have been heard; and now, before the case is finally
  given to the intelligent jury of the human race, it remains only that
  we hear a charge from his honor, the Chief Justice of the United
  States."]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE NEW ENGLAND SOCIETY:--I thank you sincerely for the courtesy
which has afforded me the opportunity of being with you this evening, and am deeply sensible
of the compliment paid in the request to respond to the sentiment just given.

We all know--we have heard over and over again--that the "Day We Celebrate" commemorates an
emigration peculiar in its causes. It was not the desire to acquire wealth or power, nor even
the spirit of adventure, that sent these colonists forth. They did not go to return, but to
abide; and while they sought to make another country theirs, primarily to enjoy religious independence,
they were much too sagacious not to know that emancipation from the ecclesiastical thraldom,
of which they complained, involved the attainment of political rights and immunities as well.
And so this day commemorates not simply the heroism of struggle and endurance in silence and
apart, for a great cause, not simply the unfeigned faith which rendered such heroism possible,
but the planting of that germ of local self-government which has borne glorious fruit in the
reconcilement of individual freedom with a national sway of imperial proportions. And this
was followed a few years later in the sister colony of Massachusetts Bay by that "Body of Liberties"
which, it is well said, may challenge comparison with Magna Charta itself or the latest Bill
of Rights. And the deniall and deprivall thereof, the disturbance. If not the ruine of both.
We hould it therefore our dutie and saftie, whilst we are about the further establishment of
this Government, to collect and expresse all such freedomes as for present we foresee may concern
us, and our posteritie after us."

And so they ordain that no man's life or liberty or property can be taken away, or his honor
or good name stained, or his goods or estate in any way damaged under color of law or countenance
of authority, unless by due process; that every person, inhabitant or foreign, shall enjoy
the same justice and law general to the plantation; that there shall be no monopolies, except
for new inventions profitable to the country, and for a short time; no imprisonment without
bail except for crimes capital and contempts in open court; freedom of alienation and power
to devise; no primogeniture, no escheats on attainder and execution for felony; succor to those
fleeing from tyranny; full freedom to advise, vote, give verdict or sentence according to true
judgment and conscience; in short, the expression or the indication of those safeguards to
liberty, the possession of which enables a people to become and to remain free.

Well may we claim for these documents large influence in forerunning the organic laws of the
several States, and that matchless instrument which a century ago was framed in this fortunate
city, which had been blessed before as the place where the Declaration put on immortality.

And now in the latter half of the third century, since the bearers of the underlying principles
of Republican rule placed their feet upon that rock, whose shadow was to become a solace to
the weariness of the perpetual toils and encounters of the land, we may well hope that what
they sought has been achieved, an enduring Government of laws and not of men; security to freedom
and to justice, "justice, that venerable virtue, without which," as exclaimed New England's
eloquent orator, "freedom, valor and power are but vulgar things."

It is delightful to keep these remembrances alive, and while duly recognizing the rightful
claims of all our brothers to their share in the foundation of the institutions of a common
country, to dwell upon what the forefathers were, what they accomplished and what they still
accomplish through the works that follow them. And as it is not unnatural that at the same
time we should felicitate ourselves upon whatever of eminence or good fortune has attended
the efforts of their descendants, the reference, Mr. President, you have made in connection
with this toast to the court over which I have the honor to preside enables me with propriety
to indulge in an allusion to those from New England who have labored in that field.

On the seventh of April, 1789, a committee was appointed by the Senate "to bring in a bill
for organizing the judiciary of the United States." Able as were his colleagues, it has been
generally conceded that "that great act was penned" by the chairman of that committee, Oliver
Ellsworth, of Connecticut. On the twenty-fourth of September--the day upon which the Judiciary
Act became a law--President Washington nominated for the Supreme Court of the United States
a chief justice and five associates, among the latter William Cushing, of Massachusetts, who,
after holding high judicial office under the Crown, but supporting the cause of his country
in the Revolution, becoming the first chief justice of the State of Massachusetts, passed from
that distinguished station to the Federal bench, as one of his eminent successors has done
in our day, and who was commissioned to, but compelled to decline, the headship of the court.
Then came Ellsworth, whose great services in framing the Federal Constitution in the Connecticut
Convention, in the United States Senate, in high diplomatic position, were complemented by
those he performed in the discharge of the duties of this exalted office.

And so, following the careers of Marshall and Taney, Chase (fresh from magnificent conduct
of the national finances under circumstances of tremendous difficulty), and Waite, from long
and successful practice at the bar, won enduring fame by deserving and obtaining the commendation
that a place rendered so illustrious by their predecessors had lost nothing in their hands;
men of New England birth, thus dividing in number the incumbency in succession to Ellsworth,
while he who has but just entered upon that service, proud of the Prairie State from whence
he comes, has never ceased to regard with affection that particular portion of the Fatherland
in which he first saw the light.

Ellsworth and Waite, Baldwin and Field, and Strong, of Connecticut; Chase and Woodbury, and
Clifford, of New Hampshire; Cushing and Storey, and Curtis, and Gray, of Massachusetts--these
are names written imperishably upon the records of the Court. But of the five from Connecticut,
Pennsylvania and California and Ohio claim four, and of the three from New Hampshire, Ohio
and Maine two; while the Old Bay State preserved her hold on hers.

Surely it is not too much for me to say, that up to the present time New England has in this
sphere of public usefulness vindicated her title to regard by the exhibition on the part of
her sons of that devotion to duty and that adherence to principle which characterized the men
to whose memory the celebration of this day is dedicated.

May that memory ever be precious, and reliance upon that Providence which sustained them under
the tribulations of their time, and has conducted their children in triumphant progress through
succeeding years, never be less. [Applause.]

HAMLIN GARLAND

REALISM VERSUS ROMANTICISM

[Speech of Hamlin Garland at the eighty-second dinner of the Sunset
  Club, Chicago, Ill., January 31, 1895. The chairman of the evening,
  Arthur W. Underwood, introduced Mr. Garland to speak in relation to
  the general subject of the evening's discussion, "The Tendency and
  Influence of Modern Fiction." Mr. Underwood said: "To some of us the
  field of modern fiction may have seemed before this evening a
  wilderness without a chart. We are fortunate in having with us a man
  who has left the 'main travelled roads' of fiction and, to mix
  metaphors a little, a man who can tell us whether the 'idols' that are
  'crumbling' are those of the realist or those of the idealist,--Mr.
  Hamlin Garland."]

GENTLEMEN:--It is very interesting and pleasant to have the critic come at the problem in his
mathematical fashion, but that will not settle it. I will tell you what will settle it--the
human soul of the creative man; because if he has the creative power and impulse in him it
will make no difference to him whether or not a single person in the world reads or understands
his book, or appreciates and understands his painting. What could the critic do with Claude
Monet thirty-five years ago? What could the critic do with Robert Browning when he appeared?
What has the critic done thus far with Walt Whitman, the greatest spiritual democrat this nation
has ever produced? This question is not settled by the schools; it is not settled by critics;
it is not to be settled by a group of realists or a group of veritists, or the latest group
of impressionists. It is to be settled by the creative impulse of the man, first; and second,
and always subordinate to the real artist, the public.

Now, I am perfectly willing to admit that there has been for the past year or two a revival
of what might be called the "shilling shocker" in literature, but it seems to me Professor
McClintock entirely overestimates and exaggerates the influence of the "yore and gore" fictionists;
and even if it were true that they filled the magazines to the exclusion of Mr. Read [Opie
P. Read] and myself--

[Mr. Read: Which they don't:]

Which they don't--and if it were true that the pendulum is swinging toward the "shilling shocker,"
it does not follow that it will be a century before there is a return to the thoughtful study
of social life. This romance can die, and these books be as dead as Hugh Conway's "Called Back"
in less than ten years. I am perfectly willing to admit all these mutations of taste, but there
is something deeper than that. Do you know, I have a notion that the reign of cheap melodrama
and farce-comedy on our stage and of the "shilling shocker" during the last two years is due
largely to our financial condition. Many of you are business men, and I know how you talk.
I ask you to go to see a serious play, and you say: "Well, I will tell you; I am pretty well
worn out when business is done, and things are not going just as they should, and I would rather
go to the theatre to laugh these days. I don't care to go to the theatre to think."

In precisely the same way, when you are called upon, after a hard day of business care and
worry, to read a book, and I say to you: "Read Israel Zangwill's 'Children of the Ghetto';
it is one of the greatest studies of our day," you say: "The fact is, I should go to sleep
over it. I must have something that has fighting in it. I want 'yore and gore' fiction this
year. Later on, when I get over my business difficulties and get where things are easy with
me, I'll try Zangwill's 'Children of the Ghetto.' I will sit down with my wife and have her
read it aloud." There is great significance in this confession as it appears to me.

And what is this "yore and gore" fiction when you analyze it? It is simply a sublimated "dime
novel" which, by reason of increased demand for easy reading, on the part of the tired brain,
has been put into a little better cover, and published by Harpers. Hitherto it was published
by Beadle or some other fellow of that sort. It is current now. The people are reading it.
They will continue to do so for a year or two, and then it will disappear. I like what Zangwill
said of it a while ago. I cannot quote it exactly, but it was like this: "I had a dream the
other night, wherein I scrambled over the roofs of buildings pursued by detectives. I lowered
myself by drain pipes. I did business in dark corridors. I retreated up narrow passages with
my good broadsword flaming, and laid scores of men at my feet. I was sealed up in dungeons.
I was snatched out of the deep by the hair of my head. I slew men in hecatombs; and then, when
the morning came and I awoke, there was not a shred of intellectual wrack left behind on which
my mind could take hold. I had dreamed it all with the cerebellum. It was all organic. Why
didn't I dream a novel by Turgenef, or Bjornsen? It takes brains to write "Fathers and Sons"
or the "Bankrupt," and it takes brains to read such masterpieces."

With all due respect to the very calm and fine position taken by Professor McClintock [Prof.
W. D. McClintock had asserted his belief that the twentieth century would stand for a great
revival of romantic literature], this novel of lust and war does not strike me as being very
high-class art. It may seem good and fine and fresh and inspiring, this fiction which slays
its millions, but I am a good deal of a Quaker. I would not slay anybody for anything. Therefore,
such art does not appear beautiful to me. I do not believe it is good for our youth to read
"yore and gore" fiction.

There are romancers--Prof. McClintock named one--who have personal quality. I don't care what
school of fiction a man belongs to if he has something to say to me which has not been said
a thousand times by somebody else. Such a man is Robert Louis Stevenson. He slew men also,
but he uttered something beside war cries. But this "shilling shocker," this searching after
the dreadful and the unknown which is red with blood, does not strike me as literature at all.
It is all the work of the cerebellum. It is not the work of the cerebrum. I should put it like
this--If a man can tell us something that has not been told before; if he can add something
to the literature of the world--a real creation--if he can, like the coral insect, build his
own little cell upon the great underlying mass of English literature, I do not care what you
call him, nor what he calls himself, he is worthy my support.

It is not safe to always reckon a man's merit by the sale of his books. The author of "Old
Sleuth" measured in that way would be the greatest American writer, in fact, the greatest writer
of any time. You can't reckon the sale of such books by numbers; you reckon them by tons. It
is easy to make a book sell, but the thing is to produce an original work of art, to put something
forth with the imprint of your own personality as a creative artist.

I believe old Walt Whitman stated the whole problem when he said: "All that the past was not,
the future will be." I do not believe that the future of the world is to be a future of war.
I believe it is to be a future of industrial peace as Professor Pearson [Charles W. Pearson]
has indicated. And I believe that the literature and the art of that future will not be based
upon war; it will be humanitarian, and at its best always an individual statement of life.
In other words, the whole tendency of modern art is towards the celebration of the individual
by the individual, and you cannot class writers in any hard and fast division. There is not
an artist living who delineates "things as they are." There is not a writer living holding
that for a theory, or who has that desire for a fundamental impulse. Art is selection, and
upon the individual soul of the creative artist is laid the burden of choice. It is in the
way he chooses his material and in the way he works it out that he is to be judged. He may
be a story-teller like Stevenson, or he may be a novelist like Zangwill. All I ask of him is
just simply this--he must be an individual creative artist; he must not repeat, must not imitate
for the sake of gain.

JOHN GILBERT

PLAYING "OLD MEN" PARTS

[Speech of John Gilbert at a banquet given by the Lotos Club in
  recognition of the fiftieth anniversary of his first appearance on the
  stage, New York City, November 30, 1878. The chairman of the dinner
  was Whitelaw Reid, President of the Lotos.]

"CÆSAR, WE WHO ARE ABOUT TO DIE SALUTE YOU." Such the gladiator's cry in the arena standing
face to face with death. There is a certain appositeness in the words I have just uttered that
probably may correspond to my position. Understand me, I do not mean to die theatrically at
present. [Laughter.] But when a man has arrived at my age, he can scarcely look forward to
very many years of professional exertion. When my old friend, John Brougham [Mr. Brougham:--"I
am not going to die just yet."] [laughter], announced to me the honor that the Lotos Club proffered
me, I was flattered and complimented. But I said: "John, you know I am no speechmaker." He
replied, "Say anything." "Anything," I said, "anything won't do." "Then," said he, "repeat
the first speech of Sir Peter Teazle, 'When an old bachelor marries a young wife, what is he
to expect?'" [Laughter.] Well, I think I can paraphrase that and say, "When a young man enters
the theatrical profession, what is he to expect?" Well, he may expect a good many things that
are never realized. However, suffice it to say that fifty years ago I made my debut as an actor
in my native city of Boston. I commenced in the first-class character of Jaffier in Otway's
charming tragedy of "Venice Preserved." The public said it was a success, and I thought it
was. [Laughter.] The manager evidently thought it was, too, for he let me repeat the character.
Well, I suppose it was a success for a young man with such aspirations as I had. There might
have been some inspiration about it--at least there ought to have been--for the lady who personated
Belvidera was Mrs. Duff, a lovely woman and the most exquisite tragic actress that I ever saw
from that period to the present.

After this, I acted two or three parts, Mortimer, Shylock, and some of those little, trifling
characters [laughter], with comparative success. But shortly after, and wisely, I went into
the ranks to study my profession--not to commence at the top and go to the bottom [laughter]--but
to begin at the bottom and go to the top, if possible. As a young man, I sought for pastures
fresh and new. I went to the South and West, my ambition still being, as is that of all youthful
aspirants for dramatic honors, for tragedy. At last I went to a theatre, and to my great disgust
and indignation I was cast for an old man--at the age of nineteen. [Laughter.] However, I must
do it. There was no alternative and I did it. I received applause. I played a few more old
men [laughter]; I found at last that it was my point, my forte, and I followed it up and after
this long lapse of years, I still continue in that department. I went to England and was received
with kindness and cordiality and, returning to my own country in 1862, I was invited to join
Wallack's Theatre by the father of my dear friend here [alluding to Mr. Lester Wallack], his
father whom I am proud to acknowledge as a friend of mine nearly fifty years ago, and I am
also proud to say my dramatic master. [Applause.] I need not tell you that since that time
I have been under the direction of his son. What my career has been up to the present time
you all know. It requires no comment from me. I am no longer a young man, but I do not think
I am an old man. [Applause and laughter.] I owe this to a good constitution and moderately
prudent life. [Shouts of laughter.] I may say with Shakespeare's Adam, that

 "In my youth I never did apply
  Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
  Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
  Frosty, but kindly."

Will you permit me, gentlemen, to thank you for the very high honor you have conferred upon
me this evening and allow me to drink the health and prosperity and happiness of the Lotos
Club? [Cheers.]

WILLIAM SCHWENK GILBERT

PINAFORE

[Speech of William S. Gilbert at a dinner given to him and to Sir Arthur
  Sullivan by the Lotos Club, New York City, November 8, 1879. Whitelaw
  Reid, the President, in introducing Mr. Gilbert and Mr. Sullivan,
  said: "We do not welcome them as men of genius. It sometimes happens
  that men of genius do not deserve welcome. But we do greet them as men
  who have used their undoubted genius to increase the happiness of
  their kind [applause]; men whose success has extended throughout the
  nations and has added bright hours to the life of every man and woman
  it has touched. [Applause.] That success has depended on no unworthy
  means. Respecting themselves and their art, they have always respected
  their audiences. They have so married wit and humor, and a most
  delicate fancy, and the best light music of the time, to the public
  temper, that we have seen here in New York, for example, their piece
  so popular that we hadn't theatres enough in town to hold the people
  who simultaneously and unanimously wanted to hear it. I propose first
  the health of a gentleman who, not merely in the piece that has so
  long been the rage of the town, but in a brilliant series of previous
  successes, has always given us wit without dirt [applause]--a drama in
  which the hero is not a rake, and the heroine is not perpetually
  posing and poising between innocence and adultery."]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--As my friend Sullivan and I were driving to this Club this evening,
both of us being very nervous and very sensitive, and both of us men who are highly conscious
of our oratorical defects and deficiencies, and having before us vividly the ordeal awaiting
us, we cast about for a comparison of our then condition. We likened ourselves to two authors
driving down to a theatre at which a play of theirs was to be played for the first time. The
thought was somewhat harassing, but we dismissed it, because we remembered that there was always
an even chance of success [laughter], whereas in the performance in which we were about to
take part there was no prospect of aught but humiliating failure.

We were rather in the position of prisoners surrendering to their bail, and we beg of you to
extend to us your most merciful consideration. But it is expected of me, perhaps, that in replying
to this toast with which your chairman has so kindly coupled my name, I shall do so in a tone
of the lightest possible comedy. [Laughter.] I had almost said that I am sorry to say that
I cannot do so; but in truth I am not sorry. A man who has been welcomed as we have been here
by the leaders in literature and art in this city, a man who could look upon that welcome as
a string on which to hang a series of small jokes would show that he was responding to an honor
to which he was not entitled. For it is no light thing to come to a country which you have
been taught to regard as a foreign country, and to find ourselves in the best sense of the
word "at home" [applause] among a people whom we are taught to regard as strangers, but whom
we are astonished to find are our intimate friends [applause]; and that proffered friendship
is so dear to us that I am disposed, in behalf of my collaborateur and myself, to stray somewhat
from the beaten paths of after-dinner oratory, and to endeavor to justify ourselves in respect
to a matter in which we have some reason to feel that we have been misrepresented.

I have seen in several London journals well-meant but injudicious paragraphs saying that we
have a grievance against the New York managers because they have played our pieces and have
offered us no share of the profits. [Laughter.] We have no grievance whatever. Our only complaint
is that there is no international copyright act. [Applause.] The author of a play in which
there is no copyright is very much in the position of an author or the descendants of an author
whose copyright has expired. I am not aware that our London publishers are in the habit of
seeking the descendants of Sir Walter Scott or Lord Byron, or Captain Marryat, and offering
them a share of the profits on their publications. [Laughter.] I have yet to learn that our
London managers seek out the living representatives of Oliver Goldsmith, or Richard Brinsley
Sheridan or William Shakespeare, in order to pay them any share of the profits from the production
of "She Stoops to Conquer," or "The Good-Natured Man," or "The Merchant of Venice." [Laughter.]
If they do so, they do it on the principle that the right hand knows not what the left hand
doeth [laughter], and as we have not heard of it, we presume, therefore, that they have not
done so. And we believe that if those eminent men were to request a share of the profits, they
would be met with the reply that the copyright on those works had expired.

And so if we should suggest it to the managers of this country, they would perhaps reply with
at least equal justice: "Gentlemen, your copyright never existed." That it has never existed
is due entirely to our own fault.

We consulted a New York lawyer, and were informed that, although an alien author has no right
in his works, yet so long as they remain unpublished, we held the real title in them, and there
was no process necessary to make them our own. We, therefore, thought we would keep it in unpublished
form, and make more profit from the sale of the pianoforte score and the words of the songs
at the theatres and at the music publishers.

We imagined that the allusions in the piece were so purely British in their character, so insular
in fact, that they would be of no interest on this side; but events have shown that in that
conclusion we were mistaken. At all events, we have also arrived at the conclusion that we
have nobody to blame but ourselves. As it is, we have realized by the sale of the book and
the piano score in London about $7,500 apiece, and under those circumstances I do not think
we need to be pitied. [Laughter.] For myself, I certainly do not pose as an object of compassion.
[Laughter.]

We propose to open here on the first of December at the Fifth Avenue Theatre with a performance
of "Pinafore." I will not add the prefixing initials, because I have no desire to offend your
republican sympathies. [Laughter.] I may say, however, that I have read in some journals that
we have come over here to show you how that piece should be played, but that I disclaim, both
for myself and my collaborateur. We came here to teach nothing--we have nothing to teach--and
perhaps we should have no pupils if we did. [Laughter.] But apart from the fact that we have
no copyright, and are not yet managers in the United States, we see no reason why we should
be the only ones who are not to be permitted to play this piece here. [Laughter and applause.]

I think you will admit that we have a legitimate object in opening with it. We have no means
of knowing how it has been played in this country, but we are informed that it has been played
more broadly than in the old country--and you know that may be better or worse. [Laughter.]

Afterward we propose to produce another piece, and in the fulness of time the longer it is
delayed perhaps the better for us [laughter], and we propose to present it to an audience [laughter]
in the same spirit in which we presented "Pinafore"--in a most serious spirit--not to permit
the audience to see by anything that occurs on the stage that the actors are conscious of the
really absurd things they are doing. Whether right or not, that is the way in which it was
presented in London. We open with "Pinafore," not to show how that ought to be played, but
to show how the piece that succeeds is about to be played, and to prepare the audiences for
the reception of our new and highly preposterous story. [Applause.]

The kindness with which we have been received this evening emboldens me to believe that perhaps
you will not consider this explanation altogether indecent or ill-timed. I have nothing more,
gentlemen, to say, except to thank you most heartily for the complimentary manner in which
you proposed our health, and to assure you that it is a compliment which is to me personally
as delightful as it is undeserved. [Applause.]

DANIEL COIT GILMAN

THE ERA OF UNIVERSITIES

[Speech of Daniel C. Gilman, President of Johns Hopkins University at
  the Harvard Alumni dinner, at Cambridge, Mass., June 29, 1881.]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN:--There are so many in this room to whom this scene is familiar
and so many whose voices have been heard within these walls, that you can hardly understand
how one feels who for the first time stands and endeavors to make his voice reach over this
large assembly. It is not merely the sea of upturned faces, this noble company of noblemen,
this regiment of brigadiers, as it might be called, it is not alone these pictures and busts,
the devices and mottoes which adorn this edifice, nor is it alone the recollection of all the
illustrious teachers who have been here brought together or the consciousness that we stand
among museums and cabinets and laboratories unrivalled on this continent,--all this is noble
and worthy of noble men. But there is one thing that seems to me more impressive than all this.
It is the power which Harvard College has had throughout all the land and throughout all its
history. [Applause.]

I have had the opportunity of seeing on the shores of the Pacific how every act of the corporation
of Harvard College, every new measure adopted by the faculty, every additional gift to its
treasury, was watched as men look toward the east and watch the rising sun, rejoicing in its
boundless store and radiant energy. [Applause.] And I have stood on the shores of a Southern
river and have seen the development of a young college on the banks of the Patapsco, and I
can truly say that if there had not been a John Harvard, there never would have been a Johns
Hopkins [applause]; if there had never been a university in Cambridge, there never would have
been a university in Baltimore; and if there is any merit in the plans adopted in that distant
city, if there is any hope to be derived from the experiment which is there in vogue, it is
largely due--and I rejoice in an opportunity of saying so in this public way--it is largely
due to the kindly sympathy, the wise counsel, the generous help and the noble example of Harvard
College. [Applause.] To the President of this university, to his associates in the corporation
and in the faculty, to many of its alumni the plans adopted in Baltimore owe a most generous
and hearty acknowledgment.

The speaker who preceded me characterized Harvard College as the Alma Mater of Colleges, and
well he did so. But, gentlemen, you can hardly fail to observe that in the progress of education
in this country we are getting beyond the college period and we are entering the period of
universities. What they are to be, none of us are wise enough to tell, but whatever they are
will largely depend upon what you make of Harvard University. [Applause.] Many years ago I
received a lesson from one whose name I can never mention without respect and honor, the late
Benjamin Pierce. He said, in speaking of the formation of a university, "It will never succeed
without eminent professors. They will tell you that great professors make poor teachers, but
I will tell you it is only the eagle that is fit to teach the eaglets. Let the barn-door fowl
take care of themselves." And so I say here, let there be a staff of professors the most eminent,
the most earnest, the most free in their work that Harvard can bring together, and all the
rest goes with it. [Applause.]

I trust, then, that as the years roll on, as the era of universities in this country is developed
from the period of college instruction, we shall find that the same wisdom that has governed
the councils of our learned bodies, the same adherence to right principles, the same love of
truth, will ever be present, and that Harvard College and all its younger sisters as they go
on will repeat the lesson which they have taught from the beginning, and which they still teach,
whether we turn our eyes to the depths of the sea or the boundless regions of space, that beyond
the things which are seen and temporal are the things which are unseen and eternal. [Applause.]

WILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE

THE AGE OF RESEARCH

[Speech of William B. Gladstone at the annual banquet of the Royal
  Academy, May 5, 1877. Sir Francis Grant, the President of the Academy,
  being indisposed, Sir Gilbert Scott, the eminent architect, took the
  chair at the special request of the President. In introducing Mr.
  Gladstone, he said: "The next toast is, 'The Interests of Literature.'
  I have been somewhat perplexed myself to think why the custom of the
  Academy places Science before Literature. I see, however, that it is
  quite right, for Literature is a member of our own family--our sister.
  [Cheers.] I am old enough to recollect that when Sir Morton Archer
  Shee, who united Art with Poetry, was elected President of the
  Academy, this epigram appeared in the 'Times':

 "'So Painting crowns her sister Poesie,
   The world is all astonished, so is She (e).'

  Many present will remember in more recent times how Charles Dickens,
  when returning thanks for this toast, expressed the same sentiment of
  relationship by altering some words of Rob Roy's and saying that when
  at our Academy he felt so much at home, as to be inclined to exclaim:
  'My foot is on my native heath, although my name is not Macgregor.'
  Next to religion, literature in very many of its phases supplies the
  noblest subjects for Art. History, Biography, and works of fiction all
  contribute their share; while poetry enjoys the cumulative privilege
  of uniting in itself the incentives to Art which are commanded by all
  other branches of Literature as well as the ennobling sentiments
  inspired by religion, patriotism and other affections of the human
  heart. An elevating mission, indeed, be it only directed in a worthy
  course. Frivolity and license are alike the bane of literature and
  art. Earnestness of purpose and severity of moral tone are the stamina
  of both. Shorn of these, both alike find their strength is gone from
  them. It is consoling to reflect that notwithstanding the laborious
  turmoil of politics we have had three, and I think successive, Prime
  Ministers who have made Literature the solace of their scanty leisure
  and delighted the world by their writings on subjects extraneous to
  State politics. [Great applause.]

SARAH GRAND

MERE MAN

[Speech of Sarah Grand [Mrs. M'Fall] at the annual ladies' banquet of
  the Whitefriars Club, London, May 4, 1900. Max O'Rell [Paul Blouet]
  acted as chairman. L. F. Austin, who spoke earlier than Madame Grand,
  said, turning to Max O'Rell: "It used to be said of certain
  politicians by way of odium that they mumbled the dry bones of
  political economy; but you, sir, who sit trembling in that chair
  [laughter]--you are trying not to look it, but you are trembling with
  apprehension of the delicately anointed barb with which Madame Sarah.
  Grand will presently transfix you [laughter]; you must feel that we
  shall not very long be permitted even to mumble the barren epigrams of
  a vanished ascendancy."]

MR. CHAIRMAN:--I have the honor to propose the toast of "Mere Man" [laughter], but why "Mere
Man," I want to know? After all that has been said this evening so truthfully on the subject
of "Sovran Woman," it is impossible for me to use such an epithet without feeling myself in
an invidious position, in the position of the dog that bites the hand which has just caressed
it--or rather I should feel myself in that position if I were in any way responsible for the
use of the ungracious word. I beg most emphatically to state that I am not in any way responsible
for it. I decline to be identified with such an expression: I decline to be accused of calling
man any names [laughter], any names that I have not already called him. [Laughter.] I do not
decline out of consideration for mere man altogether, but in self-defence. To use such an expression
deprives me of any dignity which I might myself derive from the dignity of my subject. Besides,
the words in my mouth, were I to be identified with them, would be used against me as a bomb
by a whole section of the press, to blow me up. [Laughter.] I object to be blown up for nothing
by a whole section of the press. [Laughter.] That is the sort of thing which almost ruffles
my equanimity. My comfort is, that no one can accuse me of having originated such an expression,
because it is well known no woman ever originated anything. [Laughter.] I assure you I have
seen it so stated in print; and in one article I read on the subject the perturbation of the
writer, lest there should be any mistake about it, so agitated his grammar that it was impossible
to parse it. I should like to know who was responsible in the first place for the expression
which has been imposed upon me. It seems to me there is strong presumptive evidence that it
was by man himself that man was dubbed mere man. If the lords of creation choose to masquerade
sometimes as mere man by all means let them.

The saying is, "In small things, liberty; in great things, unity; in all things, charity,"
but when you meet a man who describes himself as a mere man, you would always do well to ask
what he wants, because, since man first swung himself from his bough in the forest primeval
and stood upright on two legs, he has never assumed that position for nothing. [Laughter.]
My own private opinion, which I confide to you, knowing it will go no further, is that he assumes
that tone, as a rule, to draw sovran woman. [Laughter.] Mere man is a paradoxical creature--it
is not always possible to distinguish between his sober earnest and his leg-pulling exercises.
[Laughter.] One has to be on one's guard, and woe be to the woman who in these days displays
that absence of the sense of humor which is such a prominent characteristic of our comic papers.
[Laughter.] I do not mean to say for a moment that man assumes his "mere man" tone for unpleasant
purposes. On the contrary, he assumes it for party purposes as a rule--for dinner party purposes.
[Laughter.] When man is in his mere man mood sovran woman would do well to ask for anything
that she wants--for it is then that he holds the sceptre out to her. [Laughter.] Unfortunately,
the mood does not last; if it did he would have given us the suffrage ages ago. Sovran woman
is the Uitlander of civilization--and man is her Boer. [Laughter.] It seems to me that sovran
woman is very much in the position of Queen Esther; she has her crown, and her kingdom, and
her royal robes, but she is liable to have her head snapped off at any moment. [Laughter.]
On the other hand, there are hundreds of men who have their heads snapped off every day. [Laughter.]
Mere man has his faults, no doubt, but sovran woman also can be a rasping sort of creature,
especially if she does not cultivate sympathy with cigarettes as she gets older. [Laughter.]
Let us be fair to mere man. Mere man has always treated me with exemplary fairness, and I certainly
have never maintained that the blockhead majority is entirely composed of men; neither have
I ever insinuated that it is man that makes all the misery.

Personally, and speaking as a woman whose guiding principle through life has been never to
do anything for herself that she can get a nice man to do for her [laughter], a principle which
I have found entirely successful, and which I strongly recommend to every other woman--personally
I have always found mere man an excellent comrade. [Applause.] He has stood by me loyally,
and held out an honest hand to me, and lent me his strength when mine was failing, and helped
me gallantly over many an awkward bit of the way, and that, too, at times when sovran woman,
whom I had so respected and admired and championed, had nothing for me but bonnet-pins. [Laughter.]
It does upset one's ideas and unsettle one's principles when sovran woman has nothing for one
but bonnet-pins. [Laughter.] The sharp points of those pins have made me a little doubtful
about sovran woman at times--a little apt to suspect that in private life her name is Mrs.
Harris [laughter], but I must be careful about what I say in this connection lest it should
be supposed that I have been perverted.

In the great republic of letters to which I have the honor to belong--in the distinguished
position of the letter "Z"--my experience is that woman suffers no indignity at the hands of
man on account of her sex. That is the sort of experience which creates a prejudice. It is
apt to color the whole of one's subsequent opinions. It gives one a sort of idea that there
are men in the world who would stand by a woman on occasion; and I must confess that I began
life with a very strong prejudice of that kind. For a woman to have had a good father is to
have been born an heiress. If you had asked me as a child who ran to help me when I fell, I
should have answered, "My daddy." When a woman begins life with a prejudice of this kind she
never gets over it. Remembering what her father was, she always believes there are good men
and true in the world somewhere. The recollection of her father becomes a buffer between that
woman and the shocks and jars of her after life; because of him, there is nothing distorted
in her point of view, and she remains sane. It rather spoils a woman in some ways to have a
good husband as well as a good father, because then she is so sure that

 "God's in His heaven,
  All's well with the world,"

that she becomes utterly selfish, and cares for nothing that is outside her own little circle.
But the thing to guard against is loss of faith. Men and women who have lost faith in each
other never rise above the world again--one wing is broken, and they cannot soar. It has been
said that the best way to manage man is to feed the brute [laughter], but sovran woman never
made that discovery for herself--I believe it was a man in his mere man mood who first confided
the secret to some young wife in distress--somebody else's young wife. [Laughter.] Feed him
and flatter him. Why not? Is there anything more delightful in this world than to be flattered
and fed? Let us do as we would be done by. It seems to me sometimes that it is impossible in
reviewing our social relations ever to be wholly in earnest. One's opinions do wobble so. [Laughter.]
If one would earn a reputation for consistency one must be like that great judge who declined
to hear more than one side of the case because he found that hearing the other side only confused
him. [Laughter.]

The thing about mere man which impresses me most, which fills me with the greatest respect,
is not his courage in the face of death, but the courage with which he faces life. The way
in which we face death is not necessarily more heroic than the way in which we face life. The
probability is that you never think less about yourself than you do at the moment when you
and eternity are face to face. When you are sick unto death you are too sick to care whether
you live or die. In some great convulsion of nature, a great typhoon, for instance, when the
wind in its fury lashes the walls of the house till they writhe, and there are the shrieks
of people in dire distress, and fire, and the crash of giant waves, and all that makes for
horror, the shock of these brute irresponsible forces of nature is too tremendous for fear
to obtrude. Thought is suspended--you are in an ecstasy of awful emotion, emotion made perfect
by the very strength of it.

But when it comes to facing life day after day, and day after day, as so many men have to face
it, the workingmen, in all classes of society, upon whom the home depends, men whose days are
only too often a weary effort, and whose nights are an ache of anxiety, lest the strength should
give out which means bread, when one thinks of the lives these men live, and the way in which
they live them, the brave, uncomplaining way in which they fight to the death for those dear
to them, when one considers mere man from this point of view, one is moved to enthusiasm, and
one is fain to confess that "sovran woman" on a pedestal is a poor sort of creature compared
with this kind of mere man in that so often she not only fails to help and cheer him in his
heroic efforts, but to appreciate that he is making any effort at all. I positively refuse
to subscribe to the assertion, "How poor a thing is man!" [Laughter.] It takes more genius
to be a man than manhood to be a genius. [Applause.] As to the differences between men and
women, I believe that when finally their accounts have been properly balanced it will be found
that it has been a case of six of one and half-a-dozen of the other, both in the matter of
sovereignty and of mereness [laughter], and, therefore, without prejudice, I propose that the
sixes to which I belong shall rise and cordially drink to the health of the other half dozens,
our kind and generous hosts of to-night. [Applause.]

ULYSSES SIMPSON GRANT

A REMARKABLE CLIMATE

[Speech of Gen. Ulysses S. Grant at the seventy-fifth annual dinner of
  the New England Society in the City of New York, December 22, 1880.
  The President, James C. Carter, in introducing General Grant, said:
  "Gentlemen, it is our good fortune to have with us to-night as a guest
  an illustrious fellow citizen, who in a great and fortunate career has
  been enabled to render signal service to his country and to achieve a
  just renown for himself. [Applause.] Long may he live! But however
  long, he cannot outlive the regard or the affection of the sons of New
  England. I give you, gentlemen, 'The Health of General Grant.'" The
  announcement of the toast was greeted with loud and prolonged cheers,
  the company standing.]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE NEW ENGLAND SOCIETY OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK:--I suppose
on an occasion of this sort that you will expect me to say something about this Society and
the people of New England and the pilgrims who first landed on Plymouth Rock. It was my fortune
last night to attend a banquet of this sort in the principal city on New York harbor. [Applause
and laughter.] I did not know until I went there [Brooklyn] that it was the principal city
[laughter]--the principal city of the harbor of New York, a city whose overflow has settled
up Manhattan Island, which has built up fine houses, business streets, and shown many evidences
of prosperity for a suburb, with a waste of people flowing across the North River that forms
a third if not one-half the population of a neighboring state. [Applause.] As I say, it was
my good fortune to attend a banquet of this sort of the parent society [laughter], and to which
all the societies known, even including the one which is now celebrating its first anniversary
in Las Vegas, New Mexico, owe their origin. [Laughter.] I made a few remarks there, in which
I tried to say what I thought were the characteristics of the people who have descended from
the Pilgrims. I thought they were a people of great frugality, great personal courage, great
industry, and possessed within themselves of qualities which built up this New England population
which has spread out over so much of this land and given so much character, prosperity, and
success to us as a people and a nation. [Applause.] I retain yet some of the views I then expressed
[peals of laughter], and should have remained convinced that my judgment was entirely right
if it were not that some speakers came after me who have a better title to speak for the people
of New England than myself, and who dispelled some of those views. [Renewed laughter.]

It is too many generations back for me to claim to be a New Englander. Those gentlemen who
spoke are themselves New Englanders who have, since their manhood, emigrated to this great
city that I speak of. They informed me that there was nothing at all in the Pilgrim fathers
to give them the distinguishing characteristics which we attribute to them [laughter], and
that it was all entirely dependent upon the poverty of the soil and the inclemency of the climate
where they landed. [Shouts of laughter.] They fell upon an ungenial climate, where there were
nine months of winter and three months of cold weather [laughter], and that had called out
the best energies of the men and of the women, too, to get a mere subsistence out of the soil,
with such a climate. In their efforts to do that they cultivated industry and frugality at
the same time, which is the real foundation of the greatness of the Pilgrims. [Laughter.] It
was even suggested by some that if they had fallen upon a more genial climate and more fertile
soil, they would have been there yet, in poverty and without industry. [Laughter.] I shall
continue to believe better of them myself, and I believe the Rev. Dr. Storrs, who spoke here,
will agree with me that my first judgment of them was probably nearly correct.

However, all jesting aside, we are proud in my section of the country of the New Englanders
and of their descendants. We hope to see them spread over all this land, and carry with them
the principles inculcated in their own sterile soil from which they sprang. [Applause.] We
want to see them take their independence of character, their self-reliance, their free schools,
their learning, and their industry, and we want to see them prosper and teach others among
whom they settle how to be prosperous. [Applause.] I am very much obliged to the gentlemen
of the infant New England Society [laughter] for the reception which they have accorded to
me and the other guests of this evening. I shall remember it with great pleasure, and hope
that some day you will invite me again. [Long-continued applause.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARACTERISTICS OF NEWSPAPER MEN

[Speech of Gen. Ulysses S. Grant at the eighth annual dinner of the New
  York Press Club, January 6, 1881. John C. Hennessy, President of the
  Press Club, was in the chair, and read the third toast: "The
  Republic's Honored ex-President." General Grant, on being introduced
  to respond to this toast, was received with a tumult of applause.]

MR. PRESIDENT, GENTLEMEN OF THE NEW YORK PRESS CLUB:--I confess to a little embarrassment this
evening in being called upon unexpectedly to say a word to a set of such different men as compose
not only the Press Club, but those associated with the Press of the country. I thought this
was an evening that I was going to spend where all would be quiet and good order [laughter];
where nobody would have anything to say. We all know the characteristic modesty of the people
associated with the Press [laughter], they never want to inquire into anybody's affairs, [laughter],
to know where they are going, what they are going to do, what they are going to say when they
get there. [Uproarious laughter.] I really thought that you would excuse me this evening, but
I suppose you will expect me to say something about the Press--the Press of New York, the Press
of the United States, the Press of the world. It would take a good deal to tell what is possible
for the Press to do. I confess that, at some periods of my life when I have read what they
had to say about me, I have lost all faith and all hope. [Great laughter.] But since a young
editor has spoken of the Press, and has fixed the lifetime, the generation of newspaper men
at about twelve years [laughter], I have a growing hope within me that in the future the Press
may be able to do some of the great good which we all admit is possible for it to do. [Laughter.]
I have been somewhat of a reader of the newspapers for forty years--I could read very well
when I was eight years of age. [Laughter.] It has given me forty years of observation of the
Press; and there is one peculiarity that I have observed from reading it, and that is, in all
of the walks of life outside of the Press, people have entirely mistaken their profession,
their occupation. [Laughter.] I never knew the Mayor of a city, or even a Councilman in any
city, any public officer, any government official--I never knew a member of Congress, a Senator
or a President of the United States, who could not be enlightened in his duties by the youngest
member of the profession. [Great laughter and applause.] I never knew a general of the Army
to command a brigade, a division, a corps of the Army who could begin to do it as well as men
far away in their sanctums. [Renewed laughter.] I was very glad to see that the newspaper fraternity
were ready to take with perfect confidence any office that might be tendered to them, from
President to Mayor [laughter], and I have often been astonished that the citizens have not
done so, because then all these offices would have been well and properly filled. [Laughter
and applause.]

Well, gentlemen, I am very happy to have been here with you, and I hope when a new generation,
about twelve years hence, comes on, that I shall again dine with the Press Club of New York
City, and that I shall see that those of this generation who were so well fitted to fill all
of the civil offices have all been chosen, and that there will be nothing left for them to
criticise. [Peals of laughter.] Thank you, gentlemen. [Great applause, with "Three cheers"
for General Grant.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ADOPTED CITIZEN

[Speech of Gen. Ulysses S. Grant at the 115th annual banquet of the
  Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York, May 8, 1883. George W.
  Lane, President of the Chamber of Commerce, presided, and announced as
  the first regular toast: "The United States--the great modern
  Republic--the home of a new cosmopolitan race; may those who seek the
  blessings of its free institutions and the protection of its flag
  remember the obligations they impose." The orchestra played "The
  Star-Spangled Banner," and General Grant, who was called upon to
  respond to this toast, was received with great enthusiasm.]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND GUESTS:--I am very much obliged
to your President for calling upon me first, because the agony will soon be over and I shall
enjoy the misery of the rest of you. [Laughter.]

The first part of this toast--The United States--would be a voluminous one to respond to on
a single occasion. Bancroft commenced to publish his notes on the History of the United States,
starting even before President Lane established this Chamber, which I think was something over
one hundred years ago. [Laughter.] Bancroft, I say, commenced earlier, and I am not prepared
to dispute his word if he should say that he had kept an accurate journal from the time he
commenced to write about the country to the present, because there has been no period of time
when I have been alive that I have not heard of Bancroft, and I should be equally credulous
if President Lane should tell me that he was here at the founding of this Institution. [Laughter.]
But instead of bringing those volumes of Bancroft's here, and reading them to you on this occasion,
I will let the reporters publish them as the prelude to what I am going to say. [Laughter.]

I think Bancroft has finished up to a little after the time that President Lane established
this Chamber of Commerce, and I will let you take the records of what he [Lane] has written
and what he has said in their monthly meetings and publish them as the second chapter of my
speech. And, gentlemen, those two chapters you will find the longest; they will not amount
to much more than what I have to say taking up the subject at the present time. [Laughter.]

But in speaking of the United States, we who are native-born have a country of which we may
well be proud. Those of us who have been abroad are better able, perhaps, to make the comparison
of our enjoyments and our comforts than those who have always stayed at home. [Applause.] It
has been the fortune, I presume, of the majority here to compare the life and the circumstances
of the average people abroad with ours here. We have here a country that affords room for all
and room for every enterprise. We have institutions which encourage every man who has industry
and ability to rise from the position in which he may find himself to any position in the land.
I think there is a text that my friend Mr. Beecher,[4] on the left, or my friend Dr. Newman,[5]
on the right, might well preach a long sermon upon. I shall say only a few words.

We offer an asylum to every man of foreign birth who chooses to come here and settle upon our
soil; we make of him, after a few years' residence only, a citizen endowed with all the rights
that any of us have, except perhaps the single one of being elected to the Presidency of the
United States. There is no other privilege that a native, no matter what he has done for the
country, has that the adopted citizen of five years' standing has not got. [Applause.] I contend
that that places upon him an obligation which, I am sorry to say, many of them do not seem
to feel. [Applause,]

We have witnessed on many occasions here the foreign, the adopted, citizen claiming many rights
and privileges because he was an adopted citizen. That is all wrong. Let him come here and
enjoy all the privileges that we enjoy, but let him fulfil all the obligations that we are
expected to fulfil. [Loud applause.] After he has adopted it, let this be his country--a country
that he will fight for, and die for, if necessary. I am glad to say that the great majority
of them do it, but some of them who mingle in politics seem to bank largely on the fact that
they are adopted citizens; and that class I am opposed to as much as I am opposed to many other
things that I see are popular now. [Applause.]

I know that other speakers will come forward, and when Mr. Beecher and Dr. Newman speak, I
hope they will say a few words on the text which I read. [Applause.]

JOHN WILLIAM GRIGGS

SOCIAL DISCONTENT

[Speech of John William Griggs, ex-Governor of New Jersey, at the 128th
  annual banquet of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York,
  November 17, 1896. Alexander E. Orr, President of the Chamber,
  presided. In 1897 ex-Governor Griggs succeeded Joseph McKenna as
  Attorney-General in the Cabinet of President McKinley.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--I did not know this was Thanksgiving day. [Laughter.] I did not
know that there were any discontents till I got over here to-night. When I arrive at this period
on an occasion like this, and see you sitting in comfortable expectation, with your cigars
lighted, and your intellects also lighted by the contact of such a flame as we have received
from the distinguished Postmaster-General [William L. Wilson], I always think that the composition
of the boy on Sir Walter Raleigh is applicable. He wrote a composition, and it was like this:
"Sir Walter Raleigh was a very great man; he took a voyage and discovered America, and then
he took another voyage and discovered Virginia, and when he had discovered Virginia he discovered
the potato; and when he had discovered the potato, he discovered tobacco. And when he had done
so, he called his associates about him, and said: 'My friends, be of good cheer; for we have
this day lighted in England a flame which, by God's grace, shall never be quenched.'" [Laughter.]

New Jersey greets to-night the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York. [Applause.] We
are your friends and your neighbors. We have furnished you a candidate in this election, who
represents in the person of Garret A. Hobart [applause] the sympathies and the sentiments of
such men as I see gathered here. We take much of our inspiration from New York; not all of
it. [Laughter.] We have some kinds of inspiration peculiar to ourselves, of which we are always
glad to invite our New York friends to partake in moderation and properly diluted. [Laughter.]

Our citizens mingle with yours in all the daily walks of life. We read the same newspapers.
We dress as you do, only not so well; and we vote the same ticket, by a large majority. [Applause.]
This similarity is not always apparent. The impressions of the traveller through New Jersey
are generally of salt marsh and sand banks and long monotonous stretches of landscape, and,
where the railroad pierces some shabby neighborhood, the weather-boards bear shining invitations
to take various brands of liver pills [laughter], to chew "Virgin leaf," or to "give the baby
Castoria;" but we have green meadows bright with shining brooks; we have high mountains and
pleasant valleys as well as marsh and sand dunes; and, instead of liver-pills and Castoria,
by a large majority, we are for the gold cure. [Great applause.]

I cannot let this opportunity pass without referring to the great work which this Chamber has
wrought for the state and city whose name it bears and for the country at large. It is a long
interval since these dinners were held at Fraunce's tavern, but during all that period, this
institution has stood as the pilot, the guide, the director, and pioneer in all wise policies
of commerce and trade and patriotism. [Applause.] You have bestowed not only wisdom and enlightenment
and courage on the world of commerce, but millions of dollars upon the unfortunate victims
of fire and flood and fever. You have been the promoters of good fortune and the comforters
of misfortune. I wish that the people of this land could understand how much true and loyal
patriotism, how much disinterested devotion to the highest interests of the country are found
among just such men as compose the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York. [Applause.]

During your corporate life you have seen a great country grow into independence; you have seen
it advance and extend along all the lines of progress and prosperity until the seven wonders
of the world, of which we learned in our youth, have been lost sight of and forgotten in the
thousand greater wonders of this industrial age. You have seen education become the common
provision of every State for every child of the Republic. You have seen intelligence increase;
you have seen reason and reasonableness, the ability to take right views of things, become
more universal among this people than among the people of any other land. [Applause.] You have
seen the average of comfort and prosperity higher among all classes in this country than could
be found at any other age of the world and any other land upon the surface of the earth. [Applause.]

And yet there are complainings, there are discontents, and there are dissatisfactions, and
gloomy minds think they see, in these, evidences and signs that there is coming a social revolution,
an overturning of our system of popular government, and the substitution for it of some plan
whereby, by legal enactments, all the citizens of the Republic can be made comfortable and
rich without regard to fortune or ability or frugality or merit.

In one sense discontent is a good thing. It is the opposite of self-satisfaction. [Laughter.]
It is a good thing to appreciate that we have not done our best, and then try to do it. It
is a good thing to understand that we have not made the most of our opportunities. In this
sense, discontent is the spur of ambition, the incentive to better work, the mountain of progress
up which, from height to height, civilization has climbed to where now with shining face she
stands still pointing upward to heights unknown. [Applause.]

But there is another kind of discontent, born of ignorant and jealous envy, that seeks not
to repair its mistakes nor to profit by its failures, not to build up, but to tear down. There
is in many a sense of hopelessness over hopeless misfortune; and with these it is more to pity
than to blame. But, withal, in these discontents there is a menace to the Republic. They afford
the opportunity for the demagogue and the cheap candidate for public office. [Laughter and
applause.] Glory to the American people! They cannot be fooled all the time, nor some of the
time. They are too level-headed, too intelligent, too patriotic to be caught by appeals of
the demagogue and the social revolutionist, to the dictates and sentiments of envy, hatred
and malice.

May I venture to suggest that there are some ways by which it is possible for us to minimize
the danger we find in these discontents? The American people, as I have said, have not up to
date been fooled. They are the nation's court; they deserve a better certificate of character
than a certain colored man who, when he was about to leave his master's employ because of the
mysterious disappearance of certain small articles about the house, asked for a certificate
of character to take to his next employer, and his employer said: "Well, 'Rastus, I can give
you a good certificate for energy and ability, but I cannot say much about your honesty." "Tell
you what, boss," says 'Rastus, after a moment's reflection: "can't you put it in that I am
just as honest as my instincts will let me be?" [Laughter.]

The first remedy I would suggest, and it is one that is to be ever applied, is education. Reduce
the percentage of illiteracy. Let the public schools teach not only reading and writing, but
let public schools teach all the principles of American popular government. [Applause.] Let
us go back to the days in which I was taught to write, when the copybook bore a text taken
from Poor Richard--"Industry and frugality lead to wealth," or "Who by the plough would thrive,
himself must either hold or drive,"--there was not anything said in those days about legislating
a boy into wealth or comfort or ease, especially at the expense of anybody else. [Applause.]

The next remedy I would speak of is to cast out the demagogue. They are the fellows that are
the curse of both and of all political parties. We have had them from the days of Julius Cæsar
and Marc Antony down to date. [Laughter.] These smooth, sleek, mellifluous-tongued fellows
that always have the same blood-stained garment to hold up before the populace, and some forged
will to read, whereby the people were to get great legacies which they never could collect,
let us cast them out. Let us frown upon them in both parties, so that they never have a standing
on any political platform. [Applause.] Why, it makes the blood of an honest, straightforward,
intelligent, American citizen boil to see the impudence, the hypocrisy, of men of this kind,--and
they belong to both parties. I heard a story of one who used, when Long Branch was more popular
than it is now, to go down there for a summer outing. One day he went out in the surf to bathe.
He was strong and vigorous and bold, and he swam out beyond the breakers; he was heading strongly
and fearlessly for the European shore. All at once, a shark, a man-eater, was coming the other
way, and swam up squarely in front of him. They eyed each other for a moment, and then the
shark blushed and swam out. [Laughter and applause.]

Then, let us have more mutual sympathy and confidence between all classes and conditions of
men. The man who works for wages, day by day, is our equal in right and our equal at the ballot-box.
Very often he has, generally he has, as high instincts, as loyal and true a heart, as his employer.
[Applause.] There is no reason why his employer or the candidate for office or anybody else
should make friends with him only about election-time. Be his friend all the year round. Show
him that you sympathize with him as a fellow-citizen. This is not condescension. It is his
right. It is not altruism. You understand what that is. The teacher told her class in Sunday-school:
"Now, my children, you know an altruist is one who sacrifices his own interests to the interests
of his fellows." "Oh! yes," says one boy, "I know; a fellow who makes his sacrifice hit." [Laughter.]

But let there be confidence between the men that earn wages and the men that pay wages. Let
them meet together on a plane of political equality, and they will learn to respect the employer,
and the employer, take my word for it, will learn to respect them. [Applause.]

And then, let us stop making citizens out of unworthy material. [Applause.] We welcome all
those that come from over the sea, men of merit and worth and proper instincts who want to
build and work among us. We do not want those who only come here to tear down and destroy.
We have had the gates wide open. They have been coming--all sorts and all conditions and all
beliefs. Let us shut those gates, and open them hereafter only to men of merit with right instincts.
[Applause.] The law of the land declares that no subject of any foreign government shall be
naturalized unless he can prove to the satisfaction of the court that he has been well attached
to the principles of the Constitution of the United States. How that provision has been mocked!
Why, we have taken into citizenship with us thousands of men who not only were not attached
to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, who not only did not know what
those principles are, but who held principles diametrically opposed to it. Now, let us see
that America suffers no longer from indigestion [laughter], from a surfeited feast of foreign
anarchists and socialists and revolutionists; give us good men and true, who will not impede
our digestion, and keep out those that tend to indigestion. [Applause.]

And then, let every citizen go into politics. [Laughter.] Oh, not for
what is in it, but for the good of his country, to speak, write,
organize, lead processions and keep it up. Rally round the flag, and
keep on rallying! [Applause.] Do not let your enthusiasm and your
patriotism evaporate and die away in the shouts that follow one
triumphant campaign. Keep them up the whole year round--the four years
round. You have heard from two sources, to-night, how important it is
that we should always be vigilant and alert to defend, to educate and
scatter knowledge and the spirit of intelligence among all the people. The President, William Borden, gave the fifth regular toast,
  to which Dr. Hale responded, as follows: "New England Culture--the
  open secret of her greatness." I observe that I am
the first stranger who has crossed the river which, I recollect Edward
Winslow says, divides the Continent of New England from the Continent of
America [laughter], and, as a stranger, it is my pleasure and duty at
once to express the thanks and congratulations of the invited guest here
for the distinguished care which has been taken on this occasion
outdoors to make us feel entirely at home. [Laughter.] As I came down in
the snow-storm, I could not help feeling that Elder Brewster, and
William Bradford, and Carver, and Winslow could not have done better
than this in Plymouth; and indeed, as I ate my pork and beans just now,
I felt that the Gospel of New England is extending beyond the
Connecticut to other nations, and that what is good to eat and drink in
Boston is good to eat and drink even here on this benighted point at
Delmonico's. [Laughter.]

When you talk to us about "culture," that is rather a dangerous word. I am always a little
afraid of the word "culture." I recollect the very brightest squib that I read in the late
election campaign--and as the President says, gentlemen, I am going to respect the proprieties
of the occasion. It was sent to one of the journals from the Western Reserve; and the writer,
who, if I have rightly guessed his name, is one of the most brilliant of our younger poets,
was descanting on the Chinook vocabulary, in which a Chinook calls an Englishman a Chinchog
to this day, in memory of King George. And this writer says that when they have a young chief
whose war-paint is very perfect, whose blanket is thoroughly embroidered, whose leggins are
tied up with exactly the right colors, and who has the right kind of star upon his forehead
and cheeks, but who never took a scalp, never fired an arrow, and never smelled powder, but
was always found at home in the lodges whenever there was anything that scented of war--he
says the Chinooks called that man by the name of "Boston Cultus." [Applause and laughter.]
Well, now, gentlemen, what are you laughing at? Why do you laugh? Some of you had Boston fathers,
and more of you had Boston mothers. Why do you laugh? Ah! you have seen these people, as I
have seen them, as everybody has seen them--people who sat in Parker's and discussed every
movement of the campaign in the late war, and told us that it was all wrong, that we were going
to the bad, but who never shouldered a musket. They are people who tell us that the emigration,
that the Pope of Rome, or the German element, or the Irish element, is going to play the dogs
with our social system, and yet they never met an emigrant on the wharf or had a word of comfort
to say to a foreigner. We have those people in Boston. You may not have them in New York, and
I am very glad if you have not; but if you are so fortunate, it is the only place on God's
earth where I have not found such people. [Laughter and applause.] But there is another kind
of culture which began even before there was any Boston--for there was such a day as that.
[Laughter.] There were ten years in the history of this worlds ten long years, too, before
Boston existed, and those are the years between Plymouth Rock and the day when some unfortunate
men, not able to get to Plymouth Rock, stopped and founded that city. [Laughter.] This earlier
culture is a culture not of the schoolhouse, or of the tract, but a culture as well of the
church, of history, of the town-meeting, as John Adams says; that nobler culture to which my
friend on the right has alluded when he says that it is born of the Spirit of God--the culture
which has made New England, which is born of God, and which it is our mission to carry over
the world. [Applause.]

In the very heart of that culture--representing it, as I think, in a very striking way, half-way
back to the day we celebrate--Ezra Styles, one of the old Connecticut men, published a semi-centennial
address. It seems strange that they should have centennials then, but they had. He published
a semi-centennial address in the middle of the last century, on the condition of New England,
and the prospects before her. He prophesied what New England was to be in the year 1852. He
calculated the population descending from the twenty thousand men who emigrated in the beginning,
and he calculated it with great accuracy. He said, "There will be seven million men, women,
and children, descended from the men who came over with Winslow and with Winthrop," and it
proved that he was perfectly right. He went on to sketch the future of New England when these
seven million should crowd her hillsides, her valleys, her farms, and her shops all over the
four States of New England. For it didn't occur to him, as he looked forward, that one man
of them all would ever go west of Connecticut, or west of Massachusetts. [Applause.] He cast
his horoscope for a population of seven million people living in the old New England States,
in the midst of this century. He did not read, as my friend here does, the missionary spirit
of New England. He did not know that they would be willing to go across the arm of the ocean
which separated the Continent of New England from the Continent of America. [Laughter.] All
the same, gentlemen, seven million people are somewhere, and they have not forgotten the true
lessons which make New England what she is. They tell me there are more men of New England
descent in San Francisco than in Boston to-day. All those carried with them their mothers'
lessons, and they mean their mothers' lessons shall bear fruit away out in Oregon, in California,
in South Carolina, in Louisiana. [Applause.] They have those mothers' lessons to teach them
to do something of what we are trying to do at home in this matter. [Applause.] We have been
so fortunate in New England in this Centennial year that we are able to dedicate a noble monument
of the past to the eternal memory of the Pilgrim principle. We have been so fortunate that
we are able to consecrate the old South Meeting-House in Boston to the cause of fostering this
Pilgrim principle [applause], that it may be from this time forward a monument, not of one
branch of the Christian religion, not of one sect or another, but of that universal religion,
that universal patriotism, which has made America, and which shall maintain America. [Applause.]
For myself, I count it providential that in this Centennial year of years this venerable monument,
that monument whose bricks and rafters are all eloquent of religion and liberty, that that
monument has passed from the possession of one sect and one State to belong to the whole nation,
to be consecrated to American liberty, and to nothing but American liberty. [Applause.] I need
not say--for it is taken for granted when such things are spoken of--that when it was necessary
for New England to act at once for the security of this great monument, we had the active aid
and hearty assistance of the people of New York, who came to us and helped us and carried that
thing right through. [Applause.] I am surrounded here with the people who had to do with the
preservation of that great monument for the benefit of the history of this country for ever.

Let me say, in one word, what purposes it is proposed this great monument shall serve, for
I think they are entirely in line with what we are to consider to-night. We propose to establish
here what I might fairly call a university for the study of the true history of this country.
And we propose, in the first place, to make that monument of the past a great Santa Croce,
containing the statues and portraits of the men who have made this country what it is. Then
we propose to establish an institute for the people of America from Maine to San Francisco,
the people of every nationality and every name; and we hope that such societies as this, and
all others interested in the progress and preservation of the interest of our country, will
aid us in the work. [Applause.] For we believe that the great necessity of this hour is that
higher education in which this people shall know God's work with man. We hope that the Forefathers'
societies, the Sam Adams clubs, the Centennial clubs over the land, shall make the State more
proud of its fathers, and more sure of the lessons which they lived. We mean by the spoken
voice and by the most popular printed word, circulated everywhere, to instil into this land
that old lesson of New England culture. We stand by the side of those of you who believe in
compulsory education. We desire, in looking to the future, that the determination shall be
made here by us, as it has been in England, that every child born on American soil shall learn
to read and write. [Applause.]

But there is a great deal more to be taught than that. There is a great deal which the common
school does not teach and cannot teach, when it teaches men to read. We not only want to teach
them to read, but we want to teach them what is worth reading. And we want to instil the principles
by which the nation lives. We have got to create in those who came from the other side of the
water the same loyalty to the whole of American principles that each man feels to his native
country.

What is this Constitution for which we have been fighting, and which must be preserved? It
is a most delicate mutual adjustment of the powers and rights of a nation, among and because
of the powers and rights of thirty or forty States. It exists because they exist. That it may
stand, you need all their mutual rivalries, you need every sentiment of local pride, you need
every symbol and laurel of their old victories and honors. You need just this homestead feeling
which to-night we are cherishing.

But that balance is lost, that whole system is thrown out of gear, if the seven million people
of foreign parentage here are indifferent to the record of New York as they are to that of
Illinois, to that of Illinois as to that of Louisiana, to that of Louisiana as to that of Maine;
if they have no local pride; if to them the names of Montgomery, of John Hancock, of Samuel
Adams, have no meaning, no association with the past. [Applause.] Unless they also acquire
this local feeling, unless they share the pride and reverence of the native American for the
State in which he is born, for the history which is his glory, all these delicate balances
and combinations are worthless, all your revolving planets fall into your sun! It is the national
education in the patriotism of the Fathers, an education addressing itself to every man, woman,
and child from Katahdin to the Golden Gate--it is this, and only this, which will insure the
perpetuity of your republic. [Applause.]

Now, gentlemen, if you would like to try an experiment in this matter, go into one of your
public schools, next week, and ask what Saratoga was, and you will be told it is a great watering-place
where people go to spend money. You will find there is not one in ten who will be able to tell
you that there the Hessian was crushed, and foreign bayonets forever driven from the soil of
New York. [Applause.] Ask about Brandywine, the place where Lafayette shed his young blood,
where a little handful of American troops were defeated, yet, although they were defeated,
broke the force of the English army for one critical year. Put the word Brandywine in one of
your public schools, and you will see that the pupils laugh at the funny conjunction of the
words "brandy" and "wine," but they can tell you nothing about the history which made the name
famous. It seems to me it is dangerous to have your children growing up in such ignorance of
the past. [Applause.] How much did they know here about the day when, a short time since, you
celebrated the battle of Haarlem Heights, where the British were shown that to land on American
soil was not everything? Is it quite safe for your children to grow up in ignorance of your
past, while you are looking down upon the century of the future? The great institution we are
hoping for in the future is to carry this New England culture above the mere mathematics of
life, and to incorporate into all education that nobler culture which made the men who made
the Revolution, which made the men who have sustained this country. [Applause.] We shall ask
for the solid assistance of all the Forefathers' stock in the country to carry out this great
work of national education, and I am quite sure, from what I have seen here to-night, that
we shall not ask in vain. [Applause.]

I ought to apologize for speaking so long. I am conscious of the fact that I am a fraud, and
I am nothing but a fraud. [Laughter.] The truth is, gentlemen (I say this as I am sitting down),
I have no business to be here at all. I am not a Pilgrim, nor the son of a Pilgrim, nor the
grandson of a Pilgrim; there is not one drop of Pilgrim blood in my veins. I am a "forefather"
myself (for I have six children), but I am not the son of a forefather. I had one father; most
men have [laughter]; I have two grandfathers, I have four great-grandfathers, but I have not
four-fathers. [Laughter.] I want to explain, now, how all this happened, because something
is due to me before you put me out of the room. Like most men, I had eight great-great-grandfathers--so
have you; so have you. If you run it up, I have got sixty-four great-grandfathers of the grandfathers
of my grandfathers, and I have sixty-four great-grandmothers of the grandmothers of my grandmothers.
There were one hundred and twenty-eight of these people the day the "Mayflower" sailed. There
were one hundred and twenty-eight of them in England eager to come over here, looking forward
to this moment, gentlemen, when we meet here at Delmonico's, and they were hoping and praying,
every man of them and every woman of them, that I might be here at this table to-night [laughter],
and they meant me to be; and every one of them would have come here in the "Mayflower" but
for Miles Standish, as I will explain. The "Mayflower," you know, started from Holland. They
had to go to Holland first to learn the Dutch language. [Laughter.] They started from Holland,
and they came along the English Channel and stopped at Plymouth in England. They stopped there
to get the last edition of the London "Times" for that day, in order that they might bring
over early copies to the New York "Tribune" and New York "World". These ancestors of mine,
the legend says, were all on the dock at Plymouth waiting for them. It was a bad night, a very
bad night. It fogged as it can only fog in England. [Laughter.] They waited on the wharf there
two hours, as you wait at the Brooklyn and Jersey ferries, for the "Mayflower" to come along.
Methinks I see her now, the "Mayflower" of a forlorn hope, freighted with the prospect of a
fertile State and bound across an unknown sea. Her dark and weather-beaten form looms wearily
from the deep, when the pilot brings her up at the Plymouth dock, and a hundred and twenty-eight
of my ancestors press forward. They were handsome men and fair women. When they all pressed
forward, Miles Standish was on hand and met them. He was on board and looked at them. He went
back to the governor, and said, "Here are one hundred and twenty-eight of as fine emigrants
as I ever saw." "Well," Governor Carver said, "the capacity of the vessel, as prescribed in
the emigrant act, is already exceeded." Miles Standish said, "I think we could let them in."
The Governor said, "No, they cannot come in." Miles Standish went back to the gangway, and
said, "You are handsome men, but you can't come in;" and they had to stand there, every man
and every woman of them. [Laughter.]

That is the unfortunate reason why I had no ancestors at the landing of
the Pilgrims. [Laughter.] But my ancestors looked westward still. They
stayed in England, praying that they might come, and when Winthrop, ten
years afterwards, sailed, he took them all on board, and if the little
State of Massachusetts has done anything to carry out the principles of
the men who landed on Plymouth Rock in 1620, why, some little part of
the credit is due to my humble ancestry. The
  President, Benjamin D. Silliman, in proposing the toast, "Boston,"
  said: "We are favored with the company of a typical and eloquent
  Bostonian, identified with all that is learned and benevolent in that
  ancient home of the Puritans, and familiar with all its notions. In
  response to the toast, we call on the Rev. Edward Everett Hale."]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--I am sure that there is not a Boston boy who hears me to-night
who does not recollect that when he went out to his first Pilgrim dinner, or to see Fanny Kemble
or to any other evening dissipation of fifty years ago, the last admonition of his mother was,
"We will leave the candle burning for you, John, but you must be sure and be home before twelve
o'clock!" I am sure that the memory of this admonition is lingering among our friends now,
that we are entering on the small hours, and that I must only acknowledge your courtesy and
sit down. I feel, indeed, all along in your talk of hoar antiquity, that I owe my place here
only to your extreme hospitality. In these aged cities you may well say to me, "You Bostonians
are children. You are of yesterday," as the Egyptians said to the Greek traveller. For we are
still stumbling along like little children, in the anniversaries of our quarter-millennium;
but we understand perfectly well that the foundations of this city were laid in dim antiquity.
I know that nobody knows when Brooklyn was founded. Your commerce began so long ago that nobody
can remember it, but I know that there was a beaver trap on every brook in Kings County, while
Boston was still a howling wilderness. These noble ancestors of yours had made themselves at
home on Plymouth Rock before we had built a flat-boat on any river in Massachusetts Bay. [Applause.]

It is only as the youngest daughter, quite as a Cinderella, that we of Boston have any claim
on your matchless hospitality. But, as Cinderella should, we have done our best at home to
make ready our sisters when they should go to the ball. When my brother Beecher, just now,
closed his speech with a Latin quotation, I took some satisfaction in remembering that we taught
him his Latin at the Boston Latin school. And I could not but remember when I listened with
such delight to the address of Mr. Secretary Evarts, which you have just now been cheering,
that the first time I heard this persuasive and convincing orator, was when he took the prize
for elocution, a boy of thirteen, on the platform in the great hall in our old schoolhouse
in School Street. Nay, I confess also, to a little feeling of local as well as national pride,
when the President of the United States [Rutherford B. Hayes] was speaking. Just as he closes
this remarkable administration, which is going to stand out in history, distinguished indeed
among all administrations from the beginning, so pure has it been, so honorable and so successful--just
as he closes this administration he makes here this statement of the principles on which are
based the success of an American statesman, in a few fit words so epigrammatic that they will
be cited as proverbs by our children and our children's children. I heard that masterly definition
of the laws which have governed the New Englander, I took pride in remembering that the President
also was a graduate of our law school. These three are the little contributions which Cinderella
has been preparing in the last half-century, for the first dinner-party of the Brooklyn Pilgrim
Society. [Applause.]

I read in a New York newspaper in Washington the other day that something done in Boston lately
was done with the "usual Boston intensity." I believe the remark was not intended to be a compliment,
but we shall take it as one, and are quite willing to accept the phrase. I think it is true
in the past, I hope it will be true in the future, that we go at the things which we have to
do with a certain intensity, which I suppose we owe to these Puritan Fathers whom to-night
we are celebrating. Certainly we have gone at this business of emigration with that intensity.
It is perfectly true that there are in Brooklyn to-day more people than there are in Boston,
who were born in Boston from the old New England blood. Not that Brooklyn has been any special
favorite. When I met last year in Kansas, a mass meeting of twenty-five thousand of the old
settlers and their children, my daughter said to me: "Papa, I am glad to see so many of our
own countrymen." She certainly had never seen so many before, without intermixture of people
of foreign races. Now it is certainly our wish to carry that intensity into everything. If
the thing is worth doing at all it is worth doing thoroughly. What we do we mean to do it for
everybody. You have seen the result. We try, for instance, if we open a Latin school at all,
to have it the best Latin school in the world. And then we throw it open to everybody, to native
and heathen, to Jew and to Greek, to white and black and red, and we advise you to go and do
likewise. [Laughter and applause.]

WILLIAM F. HALL

YARN OF THE MANAGER BOLD

[Speech of William P. Hall (popularly known by his pen name, "Biff"
  Hall) at the fortieth dinner of the Sunset Club, Chicago, Ill.,
  January 7, 1892. The Secretary, Joseph B. Mann, acted as Chairman. The
  general subject of the evening's discussion was, "The Modern Stage;
  its Mission and Influence."]

GENTLEMEN.:--I must confess that I have never regarded the drama in a very serious light. As
to its purpose and mission, if I was trying to find out, I should consult the pleasant-faced
young man who sits in the box-office. He knows how these things stand with the public. Perhaps
the reason I do so regard the matter may be found in my early experiences. The first theatrical
performance I ever saw was in this city twenty-five years ago, and one of the prominent features
was our old friend, Billy Rice.[6] Billy Rice never gives rise to a serious thought on any
occasion. Why, the other night I went to hear Billy Rice, and I heard him tell that same old
story that he told in the same old way twenty-five years ago. It really gave me the idea that
the drama is not progressive. [Laughter.]

I consider that the theatre and the newspaper are brother and sister; they are always together.
Wherever two or three are gathered together in the wilderness some venturesome individual starts
a newspaper, and then immediately through its columns induces some other equally venturesome
individual to build an opera-house. The people who act there are called turkey actors, for
the reason that they hibernate during most of the year and only appear when the turkey is ripe
for plucking in holiday time. They then go out and depredate the country. They have a wonderful
repertoire, from Howard's "Shenandoah" to Hood's "Sarsaparilla." They play everywhere; it is
called the kerosene circuit. If there is nothing else available they let the water out of the
water-tank at the station and play in that. [Laughter.] Gentlemen, these are the pioneers of
the drama. They convey to the rural mind what knowledge it has of real fire-engines and the
triumphs of the scenic artist, and I think we should give to them the credit of spreading through
this land those beautiful dramas, "Jim the Westerner," and "The Scout of the Rockies." I do
not know what their influence may be; I don't care to touch upon that part of the subject;
but I think I cannot better illustrate the straits they are in sometimes than by reciting a
little parody on W. S. Gilbert's Bab Ballad, the "Yarn of the Nancy Bell." It is entitled:--

    THE YARN OF THE MANAGER BOLD

  It was near the town they call Detroit,
    In the State of Mich-i-gan,
  That I met on the rocks, with a property-box,
    A gloomy theatrical man.
  His o. p. heel was quite worn off,
    And weary and sad was he,
  And I saw this "fake" give himself a shake,
    As he croaked in a guttural key:
   "Oh, I am the star and the manager bold,
    And the leading and juvenile man,
  And the comedy pet, and the pert soubrette,
    And the boss of the box-sheet plan."

  He ran his hand through his dusty hair,
    And pulled down a brunette cuff,
  And on the rocks, with his property-box,
    He told me his story tough:
  "It was in the year of eighty-three,
    When a party of six and me
  Went on the road with a show that's knowed
    As a 'musical com-i-dee.'
  I writ it myself--it knocked 'em cold--
    It made 'em shriek and roar;
  But we struck a reef and came to grief,
    On the west of the Michigan shore.
  Each night it rained, or snowed or blowed,
    And when the weather was clear
  They'd say: 'It's sad your house is bad.
    But wait till you come next year.'
  We travelled along from town to town
    A-tryin' to change our luck--
  With nothin' to taste but bill-board paste
    An' the 'property' canvas duck.
  At last we got to Kankakee,
    All travel-stained and sore,
  When the star got mad and shook us bad
    For a job in a dry-goods store--
  And then the leading heavy man
    Informed me with a frown
  He was going away the very next day
    With a circus then in town;
  And the comedy pet and the pert soubrette
    Engaged as cook and waiter--
  They are still doing well in a small hotel
    Near the Kankakee the-ay-ter.
  Then only the 'comic' and me remained,
    For to leave he hadn't the heart;
  Each laugh was a drop of blood to him,
    And he loved that comedy part.
  We played one night to a right good house,
    Eight dollars and a half;
  But to my ill-luck in my lines I stuck
    And I queered the comedian's laugh.
  He fell down dead of a broken heart--
    The coroner, old and sage,
  Said his brain was cracked with a bad attackt
    Of the centre of the stage.
  I played that part all by myself
    For a week in Kankakee;
  O'er rails and rocks with this property-box
    I've walked to where I be.

[Laughter and applause.]

MURAT HALSTEAD

OUR NEW COUNTRY

[Speech of Murat Halstead at the 126th annual banquet of the Chamber of
  Commerce of the State of New York, November 20, 1894. Alexander B.
  Orr, President of the Chamber, in proposing this toast, said: "I now
  have the honor of introducing to you that eminent journalist, the Hon.
  Murat Halstead, who will respond to the toast, 'Our New Country.'"]

MR. PRESIDENT:--In the Orkney Islands there is a cathedral described by the guide as of two
parts--the old and the new. The story is glibly told that when it had stood for five hundred
years a storm beat down the tower and did other damage, making reconstruction necessary; and
that tempest was six hundred years ago. On the road from Geneva to Chamouni there is a point
of which Bædeker says: "The rocks on the left are seven thousand feet high." In the Orkneys
a tower six hundred years old is new, and in the Alps a precipice seven thousand feet high
is a moderate bit of scenery. The standards of the measurement of time and space may be exact,
and yet are comparative, affected by the atmosphere of history and the scale of landscapes.

In that portion of this country which was the West a generation ago, a farm was old when the
stumps had rotted in the fields, and the land was improved when the trees were cut. New ground
was that which had not been ploughed. Once a man of varied experiences accounted to a pious
woman for an unhappy bit of profanity by saying that when a boy he had ploughed new ground,
and the plough caught in the roots, and the horses balked, and his feet were torn with splinters
and thorns, and the handles of the plough kicked and hurt him, until depravity was developed.
The lady said she would pray for his forgiveness, if he never would do so any more, and he
promised, and I am told he did not keep that promise.

Daniel Boone's new country, when he lived on the Yadkin, in North Carolina, was Kentucky, and
afterward it was Missouri. Washington's new country was first Ohio, and then Indiana. Lincoln's
new country, when he was a child, was Indiana, and then Illinois. Beyond the Alleghany Mountains
was the land of promise of the original States; beyond the Mississippi was the new world of
those who moved west in wagons, before the Mexican war and the railroads broadened our dominions,
and we were bounded east and west by the oceans. It was for the new country of their ages that
Columbus and the Puritans and Captain John Smith set sail. In the new country there is always,
at least, the dream of liberty and the hope that the earth we inherit may be generous in the
bounties it yields to toil.

The march of manhood westward has reached the shores of the seas that look out on ancient Asia.
We have realized the vision of the Genoese--finding in the sunset the footsteps of Marco Polo.
We have crossed the mountain ranges and followed the majestic rivers, have traced the borders
of the great lakes, whitened by the sails and darkened by the smoke of a commerce that competes
in magnitude with that of the salted sea; and Texas, our France, confronts the Mediterranean
of our hemisphere.

We have crushed the rocks and sifted the sand that yielded silver and gold, and the soil is
ours that is richer than gold mines, whether we offer in evidence South Carolina, whose Sea-Island
cotton surpasses the long staple of Egypt; or the Dakotas, matchless for wheat; or the lands
of the cornstalk in the Mississippi Valley, that could feed all the tribes of Asia; or Nebraska,
whose beets are sweeter with sugar than those that were the gift of Napoleon to Germany.

We have found the springs that yield immortal youth, not in bubbling waters in a flowery wilderness,
but in the harvests of the fields and the stored energies of inexhaustible mines, not for the
passing person who perishes when his work is done, but for the imperishable race.

All this in our country, "rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun," but with the clothing of life
on the ribs, and new in the evolution of conditions by the works of man that make the nations
of the earth a family--achievements wonderful in scope, splendid in promise, marvellous in
the renown that is of peace; in the fame of the genius that is labor, the spell-binder that
gathers and builds, creates and glorifies.

Within the historic record of this Chamber of Commerce of New York, the waters of Lake Erie
have been carried through our canals and rivers to the Atlantic, making the Hudson River what
Henry Hudson thought it was when he sailed through the beautiful gate of the incomparable continent--the
road from the east to the west around the world; and the statue of Thomas Benton points westward
from the great cross of the rivers in the heart of the continent--the Ohio, Missouri and Mississippi--and
the inscription reads: "There is the road to India."

How familiar is the construction of the Pacific railroad; of the telegraph lines across the
continent and through the oceans; the record of steamers of ten thousand tons, five hundred
knots a day; the miraculous telephone; the trolley, that is with us to stay and to conquer,
introducing all the villages to the magic of rapid transit, promoting, with the incessant application
of a new force, the American homogeneity of our vast and various population--blending them
for one destiny. One is not venturing upon disputed ground--there is no prohibited politics
in it to say that slavery is gone--for all classes and sections of our common country will
agree it is well. The earth has grown both small and great for us. Its gigantic mysteries are
no more. Its circumnavigation is commonplace. The kinetoscope comes to aid the phonograph to
make pictures of action and lasting records of music and of speech. The people of coming generations
are to hear the voices that have charmed or awed, persuaded, bewitched or commanded, in departed
centuries. There will be libraries of rolls, storing for all time these treasures; rolls not
unlike those cylinders preserved in the Babylonish deserts. Photography is bringing to us,
as on parchment leaves painted with sunlight, the secrets of the depths of the seas and the
skies; it is finding new stars, and with the telescopic camera likenesses may be snatched across
spaces impenetrable by the naked eye. The aristocracy of intelligence becomes a democracy for
the diffusion of the knowledge of the history of the day, which is the most important chapter
that has been written, impartial, instantaneous, and is becoming universal.

This is more than a new country; it is a new world. Our own farmers are in competition with
those of Egypt, India, Russia and Argentina. Australia with her wool and beef and mutton, Egypt
and India with cotton and wheat, South America, Africa and Asia, made fruitful with resources,
seek the same markets with our producers; and the mills of Old England are within a few cents
and hours, in cost of transportation and time, as cheap and nigh as those of New England to
New York. Once, a war between Japan and China would have been so remote that, as they say in
the newspapers, there could have been no news in it; but it means matter of business for us
now. With the novel conditions, there come upon us new and enormous problems for solution,
and responsibilities that cannot be evaded. Once, we were an isolated nation. There was no
trouble about becoming involved in the "entangling alliances" that were the cause of alarm
to the Father of his Country. Now, the ends of the earth are in our neighborhood, and we touch
elbows with all the races of mankind, and all the continents and the islands are a federation.
The newspapers are, to continue the poetic prophecy, "the parliament of man."

The drift of human experience is to increased aggregations, to concentration and to centralization.
This mighty city, in her material grandeur, and, we may trust, her moral redemption, stands
for forty-six indestructible States and one indivisible nation. Her lofty structures far surpass
already the palaces of the merchant princes of Tyre and Venice and Liverpool, and we behold,
in these imperial towers, the types of the magnificence of the coming time. There never was
so fair and superb, ample and opulent a bride as she, in the wholesome arms of the ocean that
embrace these islands, adorned with the trophies of the wealth of the world, and whose rulers,
the slavery of crime abolished, are the sovereign millions. These are new developments of authority,
new growths of responsibility.

The Congress, forty years ago, was a body insignificant in its relations with the masses of
the people, in comparison with what it is to-day. It grapples, of necessity, with the new conditions,
and the character of the public service is of enlarged consequence, for it is to all the communities
and commonwealths far more comprehensive and penetrating in its influence than in other days;
and it is well the citizens of the Republic are aroused to appreciation of their added requirements
in the care that public life must give the general welfare.

During the recent popular experience of Christian science applied to
practical politics, that resulted, among other things, in the intimacy
of representative men of the Bowery and the Fifth Avenue, that allows
the citizens of each locality to walk into the other locality at bedtime
and select their sleeping-rooms, without asking whether the folks are at
home, and to depart with or without leaving their P. P. C. cards, one of
the speakers, noting in his audience evidences of dissent, said: "If I
am speaking in a way that is prerogatory, while I want to go on, I am
willing to quit." He honored his nativity by his modesty, and was
allowed to go on; but he preferred to sit down, though his theme seemed
to him to expand under treatment, and with his new word he retired. I
quote him as a precedent and example for immediate imitation. It is more
than a joke, though, that Fifth Avenue and the Bowery have got together,
and we may hope they will work well for the good of this new country. In
  proposing the first toast, "The President of the United States," the
  Chairman, Charles Emory Smith, said: "Gentlemen, my first duty is to
  give a welcome to our honored guests and a greeting to our worthy
  members. My second duty is to make an immediate change of the
  programme. Among the distinguished guests who honor us by their
  presence to-night is the illustrious patriot and statesman who has
  filled--yes, filled, not rattled around in--the great dignity of the
  Presidency of the United States. [Applause.] In his career he has won
  the admiration of the country not merely by his transcendent abilities
  as a statesman, but by his noble qualities as a man. Among other
  characteristics, his love of children has touched the heart of the
  country. He has promised the little children who are gathered in his
  distant home that he will join them in preparing and sharing the joys
  of Christmas. It is imperative not that he shall leave us at this
  moment but that he shall terminate the three days of cordial and
  perhaps somewhat burdensome hospitality which he has enjoyed in
  Philadelphia, at a later stage of this evening. In order that he may
  be entirely free, and because the first word should be spoken by the
  first man at the table, I ask you to join me, at this time, in
  drinking a toast to the health of the illustrious patriot, who is as
  greatly respected and honored in private life as he was in the
  Presidency--General Benjamin Harrison, whom I now have the pleasure of
  presenting to you."]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE NEW ENGLAND SOCIETY OF PENNSYLVANIA:--When my good friend
and your good neighbor and President, Mr. Charles Emory Smith, invited me to be present to-night,
I felt a special demand upon me to yield to his request. I thought I owed him some reparation
for appointing him to an office the emoluments of which did not pay his expenses. [Merriment.]
Your cordial welcome to-night crowns three days of most pleasurable stay in this good City
of Philadelphia. The days have been a little crowded; I think there have been what our friends
of The Four Hundred would probably call "eight distinct functions;" but your cordiality and
the kind words of your presiding officer quite relieve my fatigue and suggest to me that I
shall rightly repay your kindness by making a very short speech. ["No, no!"] It is my opinion
that these members of the New England Society are very creditable descendants of the Forefathers.
I'm not quite sure that the Forefathers would share this opinion if they were here; but that
would be by reason of the fact that, notwithstanding the load of substantial virtues, which
they carried through life, their taste had not been highly cultivated. [Laughter.]

I dread this function which I am now attempting to discharge more than any other that confronts
me in life. The after-dinner speaker, unlike the poet, is not born,--he is made. I am frequently
compelled to meet in disastrous competition about some dinner-table gentlemen who have already
had their speeches set up in the newspaper offices. They are given to you as if they were fresh
from the lip; you are served with what they would have you believe to be "impromptu boned turkey;"
and yet, if you could see into the recesses of their intellectual kitchen, you would see the
days of careful preparation which have been given to these spontaneous utterances. The after-dinner
speaker needs to find somewhere some unworked joker's quarry, where some jokes have been left
without a label on them; he needs to acquire the art of seeming to pluck, as he goes along
in the progress of his speech, as by the wayside, some flower of rhetoric. He seems to have
passed it and to have plucked it casually,--but it is a boutonniere with tin foil round it.
[Laughter.] You can see, upon close inspection, the mark of the planer on his well-turned sentences.
Now, the competition with gentlemen who are so cultivated is severe upon one who must speak
absolutely upon the impulse of the occasion. It is either incapacity or downright laziness
that has kept me from competing in the field I have described.

It occurred to me to-day to inquire why you had to associate six States in order to get up
a respectable Society. My friend Halstead [Murat Halstead] and I have no such trouble. We are
Ohio-born, and we do not need to associate any other State in order to get up a good Society,
wherever there is a civil list of the Government. If you would adopt the liberal charter method
of the Ohio Society, I have no doubt you could subdivide yourselves into six good societies.
The Ohio Society admits to membership everybody who has lived voluntarily six months in Ohio.
No involuntary resident is permitted to come in. [Laughter.]

But the association of these States and the name "New England" is a part of an old classification
of the States which we used to find in the geography, and all of that classification has gone
except New England and the South. "The West" has disappeared and "the Middle States" cannot
be identified. Where is "the West"? Why, just now it is at the point of that long chain of
islands that puts off from the Alaska coast; and, if I am to credit what I read (for I have
no sources of information now except the not absolutely reliable newspaper press), there are
some who believe there are wicked men who want to hitch the end of that chain into an island
farther out in the sea. [Applause.] If that is to be done, the West would become the East,
for I think the Orient has generally been counted to be the East.

I would not, however, suggest a division of the New England Society. It is well enough to keep
up an association that is one, not only of neighborhood and of historical association, but
of sentiment. Let the New England Society live, and I fancy it will not be long until you enjoy
the distinction of being the only great subdivision of the States; for, my fellow-citizens,
whatever barriers prejudice may raise, whatever obstruction the interests of men may interpose,
whatever may be the outrages of cruelty to stay the march of men, that which made the subdivision
called "the Southern States," and all that separated them from the States of the West and of
the North, will be obliterated. [Cheering.]

I am not sure, though the story runs so, that I have a New England strain. The fact is that
I have recently come to the conclusion that my family was a little overweighted with ancestry,
and I have been looking after posterity. [Merriment.]

One serious word, gentlemen. The New England character and the
influence of New England men and women have made their impress upon the
whole country; for, even in the South, during the time of slavery,
educated men and women from New England were the tutors and instructors
of the youth of the South in the plantation home. The love of education,
the resolve that it should be general, the love of home with all the
pure and sacred influences that cluster about it, are elements in the
New England character that have a saving force which is incalculable in
this great nation in which we live. Your civil institutions have been
free, high and clean. From the old town-meeting days till now, New
England has believed in and practised the Free Election and the Fair
Count. But, gentlemen, I cannot enumerate all of your virtues--time is
brief, the catalogue long. Will you permit me to thank you and your
honored President for your gracious reception of me to-night? The
  President, Isaac H. Bailey, said by way of introduction: "Gentlemen, I
  will now give you the tenth regular toast: 'The Press.' This toast,
  gentlemen, will be responded to by a member of the press who has
  always adorned his profession--General Hawley, of Connecticut."]

GENTLEMEN:--Our distinguished President paid the very highest compliment to the Press to-night;
for, while he has given at least a fortnight's notice to every other gentleman, he only told
me to-night that I had to respond to the toast of "The Press." But as I have attended a good
many dinners of the New England Society, and never knew "The Press" to be called upon before
midnight, I felt entirely safe. [Laughter.] Now, sir, I have spent an evening--some six hours--here,
enjoying all the festivities and hospitalities of this occasion to the utmost, and at last
I am called upon, at an hour when we are all full of jollity and mirth, to respond to a toast
that in reality calls upon me for my most serious effort. [Applause.] I assure you that, had
I known that I was to speak upon this subject to-night, I would, contrary to my usual custom,
have been deliberately prepared [laughter]; for I, in reality, have a great deal to say upon
that matter; and permit me to add that I have a somewhat peculiar qualification, for I have
been a man within the press, "a chiel amang ye takin' notes, an' prentin' them;" and I have
been again a man altogether outside of the press, not writing for months to his own people,
and subject to receive all the gibes and criticisms and attacks of the press. [Applause.] "I
know how it is myself." [Laughter.]

"The Press of the Republic" is a text worthy of the noblest oration. It has a great, a high,
and a holy duty. It is at once the leader and educator, and, on the other hand, the representative
of the people. I can only touch on some points that I have in my mind, upon this occasion.
It seems to me that we are passing through a period of peculiar importance regarding the value
and influence of the press of the American Republic. There are times when I join with them
in the most indignant denunciation, in the warmest appeal. There are times when I feel the
cutting, cruel, stinging injustice of the American press. [Applause.] It is the duty of an
editor, sitting, as he does, as a judge--and I mean all that the word implies--upon all that
goes on about him in public life--it is his duty to hear both sides, and all sides, as deliberately
and calmly as he may, and to pronounce a judgment that, so far as he knows, may be the judgment
of posterity. [Applause.] It is true that he has two duties. We know that it is his duty to
condemn the bad. When it is made perfectly clear that the bad man is really a bad man, a corrupter
of youth, make him drink the hemlock, expel him, punish him, crush him. [Applause.]

But there is another duty imposed upon the American press, quite as great. If there be a man
who loves the Republic, who would work for it, who would talk for it, who would fight for it,
who would die for it--there are millions of them, thank God!--it is the duty of the American
press to uphold him, and to praise him when the time comes, in the proper place, on the proper
occasion. [Applause.] The press is to deal not alone in censure of the bad, but in praise of
the good. I like the phrase, "The independent press." [Applause.] I am an editor myself. I
love my calling. I think it is growing to be one of the great professions of the day. I claim,
as an editor (and that is my chief pursuit in life), to be a gentleman also. [Applause, and
cries of "Good! Good!"] If I see or know anything to be wrong in the land, high or low, I will
say so. If it be in my own party, I will take special pains to say so [applause]; for I suppose
it to be true of both parties that we have a very high, a very glorious, a very beautiful,
a very lovable idea of the future American Republic. [Applause.]

So I will condemn, I say, whatever may be wrong. I hold myself to be an independent journalist.
[Cries of "Good!"]

But, my friends, I hope you will excuse the phrase--I am going to follow it by another--at
the same time I do freely avow that I am a partisan; for I never knew anything good, from Moses
down to John Brown, that was not carried through by partisanship. [Applause.] If you believe
in anything, say so; work for it, fight for it. There are always two sides in the world. The
good fight is always going on. The bad men are always working; the devil is always busy. And
again, on the other side you have your high idea of whatever is beautiful and good and true
in the world; and God is always working also. The man who stands between them--who says: "This
is somewhat good, and that is somewhat good; I stand between them"--permit me to say, is a
man for whom I have very little respect. [Applause.] Some men say there is a God; some men
say there is no God. Some of the independents say that the truth lies between them. [Laughter.]
I cannot find it between them. Every man has a God. If you believe in your God,--he may be
another God from mine--if you are a man, I want you to fight for him, and I may have to fight
against you, but do you fight for the God that you believe in. [Applause.]

I do sincerely think (and I wish that this was a congregation of my fellow-editors of the whole
land, for my heart is in reality full of this thing)--I do sincerely think that there is something
of a danger that our eloquent, ready, powerful, versatile, indefatigable, vigorous, omnipresent,
omniscient men of the press may drive out of public life--and they will ridicule that phrase--may
drive out of public life, not all, but a very considerable class of sensitive, high-minded,
honorable, ambitious gentlemen. [Applause.] Now, I do not say anything about the future for
myself. I have got a "free lance," I have got a newspaper, and I can fight with the rest of
them; but I will give you a bit of my experience in public life. I tell you, my friends of
the New England Society, that one of the sorest things that a man in public life has to bear
is the reckless, unreasonable censure of members of the press whom individually he respects.
[Applause.] That large-hearted man, whom personally I love, with whom I could shake hands,
with whom I did shake hands, with whom I sat at the social board time and again, grossly misinterprets
my public actions; intimates all manner of dishonorable things, which I would fight at two
paces rather than be guilty of; and it would be useless for me to write a public letter to
explain or contradict. [Applause.]

Now, I am only one of hundreds. I can stand still and wait the result, in the confidence that,
if not all, yet some, men believe me to be honorable and true; if they do not, God and I know
it, and I would "fight it out on that line." [Applause.]

Gentlemen, it is rather my habit to talk in earnest. Next to the evil of having all public
men in this land corrupt; next to the evil of having all our governmental affairs in the hands
of men venal and weak and narrow, debauching public life and carrying it down to destruction,
is the calamity of having all the young men believe it is so, whether it be so or not. [Applause.]
Teach all the boys to believe that every man who goes into public life has his price; teach
all the boys to believe that there is no man who enters public life anywhere that does not
look out for his own, and is not always scheming to do something for himself or his friends,
and seeking to prolong his power; teach every young man who has a desire to go into political
life, to think--because you have told him so--that the way to succeed is to follow such arts,
and by that kind of talk you may ruin your country. [Applause.]

Now, gentlemen, as I have said, this is a matter for an evening oration. I have barely touched
some of the points. I have said the press has a twofold duty and fortune: it is the leader,
the educator, the director of the people. It is, at the same time, the reflector of the people.
I could spend an hour upon the theme.

I cannot cease, however, without thanking the President of the St. Patrick's Society [Denis
MacMahon], the only gentleman who has mentioned the word "centennial." When I was leaving Philadelphia,
my wife warned me not to use that word, knowing to what it might lead me [laughter]; and so
I shall simply ask you all to come to Philadelphia next year, and join in the great national
exhibition, where you will have an opportunity of seeing the progress which this nation has
made under the ideas of liberty, government, industry, and thrift which were instilled by the
Pilgrim Fathers. [Applause.]

JOHN HAY

OMAR KHAYYAM

[Speech of John Hay, American Ambassador to Great Britain, at a dinner
  of the Omar Khayyam Club, London, December 8, 1897. Henry Norman,
  President of the Club, took the chair and in introducing Colonel Hay,
  as the guest of the evening, spoke of him as soldier, diplomatist,
  scholar, poet and Omarian.]

GENTLEMEN:--I cannot sufficiently thank you for the high and unmerited honor you have done
me to-night. I feel keenly that on such an occasion, with such company, my place is below the
salt, but as you kindly invited me it was not in human nature for me to refuse. Although in
knowledge and comprehension of the two great poets whom you are met to commemorate I am the
least among them, there is no one who regards them with greater admiration, or reads them with
more enjoyment than myself. I can never forget my emotions when I first saw Fitzgerald's translation
of the Quatrains. Keats, in his sublime ode on Chapman's Homer, has described the sensation
once for all:--

 "Then felt I like some watcher of the skies,
  When a new planet swims into his ken."

The exquisite beauty, the faultless form, the singular grace of those amazing stanzas, were
not more wonderful than the depth and breadth of their profound philosophy, their knowledge
of life, their dauntless courage, their serene facing of the ultimate problems of life and
of death.

Of course the doubt did not spare me, which has assailed many as ignorant as I was of the literature
of the East, whether it was the poet or his translator to whom was due this splendid result.
Was it, in fact, a reproduction of a new song, or a mystification of a great modern, careless
of fame and scornful of his time? Could it be possible that in the eleventh century, so far
away as Khorassan, so accomplished a man of letters lived, with such distinction, such breadth,
such insight, such calm disillusion, such cheerful and jocund despair? Was this Weltschmerz,
which we thought a malady of our day, endemic in Persia in 1100? My doubt lasted only till
I came upon a literal translation of the Rubaiyat, and I saw that not the least remarkable
quality of Fitzgerald's was its fidelity to the original. In short, Omar was a Fitzgerald before
the latter, or Fitzgerald was a reincarnation of Omar. It is not to the disadvantage of the
later poet that he followed so closely in the footsteps of the earlier. A man of extraordinary
genius had appeared in the world; had sung a song of incomparable beauty and power in an environment
no longer worthy of him, in a language of narrow range; for many generations the song was virtually
lost; then by a miracle of creation, a poet, a twin-brother in the spirit to the first, was
born, who took up the forgotten poem and sung it anew with all its original melody and force,
and all the accumulated refinement of ages of art. [Cheers.]

It seems to me idle to ask which was the greater master; each seems
greater than his work. The song is like an instrument of precious
workmanship and marvellous tone, which is worthless in common hands, but
when it falls, at long intervals, into the hands of the supreme master,
it yields a melody of transcendent enchantment to all that have ears to
hear. If we look at the sphere of influence of the two poets there is no
longer any comparison. Omar sang to a half barbarous province;
Fitzgerald to the world. Wherever the English speech is spoken or read,
the Rubaiyat have taken their place as a classic. There is not a
hill-post in India, nor a village in England, where there is not a
coterie to whom Omar Khayyam is a familiar friend and a bond of union.
In America he has an equal following, in many regions and conditions. In
the Eastern States his adepts form an esoteric sect; the beautiful
volume of drawings by Mr. Vedder is a centre of delight and suggestion
wherever it exists. In the cities of the West you will find the
Quatrains one of the most thoroughly read books in every Club Library.
I heard Omar quoted once in one of the most lovely and desolate spots of
the High Rockies. We had been camping on the Great Divide, our "roof of
the world," where in the space of a few feet you may see two springs,
one sending its water to the Polar solitudes, the other to the eternal
Carib summer.
   The Sultan rises and the dark Ferrash
   Strikes, and prepares it for another guest."

I thought that sublime setting of primeval forest and pouring cañon was worthy of the lines;
I am sure the dewless, crystalline air never vibrated to strains of more solemn music.

Certainly our poet can never be numbered among the great popular writers
of all times. He has told no story; he has never unpacked his heart in
public; he has never thrown the reins on the neck of the winged horse,
and let his imagination carry him where it listed. "Ah! the crowd must
have emphatic warrant." Its suffrages are not for the cool, collected
observer, whose eye no glitter can ever dazzle, no mist suffuse. The
many cannot but resent that air of lofty intelligence, that pale and
subtle smile. But he will hold a place forever among that limited number
who, like Lucretius and Epicurus--without rage or defiance, even without
unbecoming mirth--look deep into the tangled mysteries of things; refuse
credence to the absurd, and allegiance to the arrogant authority,
sufficiently conscious of fallibility to be tolerant of all opinions;
with a faith too wide for doctrine and a benevolence untrammelled by
creed, too wise to be wholly poets, and yet too surely poets to be
implacably wise. [Cheers.] He is about retiring
  from his high position, with the respect, admiration and the gratitude
  of the people for the great wisdom, the pure purpose, the steady will
  and the unwavering firmness with which he has administered the
  government, preserved its honor and secured its property. [Loud
  cheers.] I propose to you, as our first toast, 'The President of the
  United States.'"]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--We have often heard, we often hear, the phrase "New England ideas."
It is said, and I think said truly, that these ideas have a large and growing influence in
shaping the affairs of the people of the United States. It is not meant, I suppose, that the
principles referred to in this phrase, are peculiar to New England, but merely that in New
England they are generally accepted, and that perhaps there they had their first practical
illustration. These ideas, these principles generally termed New England ideas, and New England
principles, it seems to me, have had much to do with that prosperity which we are now enjoying,
and about which we are perhaps apt to be too boastful, but for which it is certain we cannot
be too grateful. [Applause.]

The subject, New England ideas, is altogether too large a one for me, or anybody, to discuss
this evening. If it were to be done at length, in protracted speaking, we have our friends
here, able and with a reputation for capacity in that way. Our friend, Mr. Evarts, for example
[applause], Mr. Beecher [applause], and I am confident that I shall be excused for naming in
this connection, above all, our friend General Grant. [Loud applause.]

Leaving then to them the discussion of the larger topic, I must content myself with the humbler
duty of merely naming the New England ideas to which I refer.

New England believes that every man and woman, under the law ought to have an equal chance
and an equal hope with every other man and woman [applause], and believes that in a country
where that is secured individuals and society will have their highest development and the largest
allotment of human happiness. [Applause.] New England believes that equal rights can be best
secured in a country where every child is provided freely with the means of education. [Applause.]
New England believes that the road--the only road, the sure road--to unquestioned credit and
a sound financial condition is the exact and punctual fulfilment of every pecuniary obligation,
public and private [applause], according to its letter and spirit. [Applause.] New England
believes in the home, and in the virtues that make home happy [cries of "Good!"], and New England
will tolerate, so far as depends on her, no institutions and no practices in any state or territory
which are inconsistent with the sacredness of the family relation. [Cries of "Good!"] New England
cherishes the sentiment of nationality and believes in a general government strong enough to
maintain its authority, to enforce the laws and to preserve and to perpetuate the Union. [Applause.]

Now, with these New England ideas everywhere accepted and prevailing--to
repeat, with just and equal laws, administered under the watchful eyes
of educated voters; with honesty in all moneyed transactions; with the
New England home and the New England family as the foundation of
society; with national sentiments prevailing everywhere in the country;
we shall not lack that remaining crowning merit of New England life
which lends to every peopled landscape its chief interest and glory, the
spires pointing heavenward that tell to every man who sees them that the
descendants of the Pilgrims still hold to and cherish, and love that
which brought their fathers to this continent, which they here sought
and here found--freedom to worship God. We cannot doubt that they had such questions for
  such questions must arise where there are different currencies. But
  the attention of our committee this year has naturally been drawn in
  that direction, and they have selected as the next subject one of the
  currencies with which the Pilgrims had to deal: 'The Wampum of the
  Indians.' Upon this subject they have invited the Hon. Joseph C.
  Hendrix to speak. Doubtless he may draw from that subject lessons that
  will be of interest and of use for the present day."]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE NEW ENGLAND SOCIETY:--While your poetic souls are attuned
to the sweet music of the last speech, I must chide the Fates which compel me to so suddenly
precipitate upon you a discussion of a practical nature, especially when at the very outset
I must begin to talk about clams. [Laughter.] For when we begin to consider wampum we have
to begin to consider the familiar hard-shell clam of daily use, which was the basis of wampum.
At this stage of the feast, after the confections contained in that eulogium passed upon you
by the Governor of Massachusetts [Frederick T. Greenhalge], and after that private parlor-car,
canvas-back-duck, cold-champagne view of consolidation taken by the great trunk-line president
[Chauncey M. Depew] [laughter], can you endure anything savoring of the clam? Would you not
prefer to go home and sleep upon what you already have? Yet every loyal son of Long Island
ought to be partial to clams. The Mayor [Charles A. Schieren], who typifies what a German head
can do in a contest with an Irish appetite, should love them because they reside within the
city limits, and have ceased to vote in Gravesend. You, Mr. Chairman, as a lawyer, ought to
tolerate the clam, for there are two sides to the case, and there's meat inside. Our friend
the preacher [Rev. Samuel A. Eliot] knows that they are as good every day in the week as they
are on Sunday. Dr. Johnson [Dr. J. G. Johnson] there favors them as part of his internal revenue
system. The Mugwumps cannot object to them, because they change from side to side so easily.
The Democrats ought to like anything that is always digging a hole for itself, and the Republicans
cannot but be patient with what comes on top at the change of the tide. [Laughter.] So, gentlemen,
I present to you the clam. Professor Hooper [Franklin W. Hooper] tells me to call it the Venus
Mercenaria, but we shall have to wait for our free public library before venturing so far.

You remember, when you were children, looking over the old story-book handed down to you by
the Puritan fathers, that one of the conundrums with which the gayety of their times was illustrated
was, "Who was the shortest man in the Bible?" The answer was, "Bildad, the Shuhite;" but now,
in the revised text it is Peter, because Peter said: "Silver and gold have I none," and no
one could be shorter than that. The North American Indian was no better off than Peter in his
gold reserve or silver supply; but he managed to get along with the quahog clam. That was the
money substance out of which he made the wampum, and the shell-heaps scattered over the island
are mute monuments to an industry which was blasted by the demonetization of the hard-shell
clam. Wampum was a good money in the Indian civilization. It was the product of human labor
as difficult and tedious as the labor of the gold-miner of to-day. It had intrinsic value,
for it was redeemable in anything the Indian had to give, from his skill in the chase to his
squaw. It took time, patience, endurance and skill to make a thing of beauty out of a clam,
even in the eyes of an Indian, but when the squaws and the old men had ground down the tough
end of the shell to the size of a wheat straw, and had bored it with a sliver of flint, and
strung it upon a thew of deerskin, and tested its smoothness on the noses, they had an article
which had as much power over an Indian mind as a grain of gold to-day has over us. There were
two kinds of wampum, the blue and the white. The Montauks to this day know that there is a
difference between the two. The blue came from our clam. The white, which was the product of
the periwinkle, did not need so much labor to fit it for use as wampum, and it was cheaper.
The blue was the gold; the white was the silver. One blue bead was worth two white ones. The
Indians did not try to keep up any parity of the beads. They let each kind go for just what
it was worth. The Puritans used to restring the beads and keep the blue ones. Then the Indians
strung their scalps.

Why was wampum good money in its time? The supply was limited. It took a day to make four or
five beads. It was in itself a thing of value to the Indian for ornament. It was easily carried
about from place to place. It was practically indestructible. It was always alike. It was divisible.
The value attached to it did not vary. It was not easily counterfeited. So it was that it became
the money of the colonists; a legal tender in Massachusetts and the tool of the primitive commerce
of this continent. The Puritan took it for firewater and gave it back for furs. Long Island
was the great mint for this pastoral coinage. It was called the "Mine of the New Netherlands."
The Indian walked the beach at Rockaway, dug his toes in the sand, turned up a clam, and after
swallowing the contents carried the shells to the mint. Gold and silver at the mouth of a mine
obtain their chief value from the labor it takes to get the metals; wampum was the refinement
by labor of a money substance free to all. The redemption of wampum was perfect. To the Indians
it was a seal to treaties, an amulet in danger, an affidavit, small change, a savings' bank,
a wedding ring and a dress suit. To this day the belt of wampum is the storehouse of Indian
treasure. In the Six Nations, when a big chief made an assertion in council, he laid down a
belt of wampum, as though to say, "Money talks." The Iroquois sent a belt of it to the King
of England when they asked his protection. William Penn got a strip when he made his treaty.
The Indians braided rude pictures into it, which recorded great events. They talked their ideas
into it, as we do into a phonograph. They sent messages in it. White beads between a row of
dark ones represented a path of peace, as though to say: "Big chief no longer got Congress
on his hands." A string of dark beads was a message of war or of the death of a chief, and
a string of white beads rolled in mud was equivalent to saying that there was crape on the
door of Tammany Hall. So you see that it was a combined post-office, telegraph, telephone,
phonograph and newspaper.

The Iroquois had a keeper of wampum--a sort of secretary of the treasury without the task of
keeping nine different kinds of money on a parity. This old Indian financier had simple and
correct principles. No one could persuade him to issue birch-bark promises to pay and delude
himself with the belief that he could thus create money. He certainly would have called them
a debt, and would have paid them off as fast as he could. Nor can we imagine him trying to
sustain the value of the white wampum after the Puritans started in to make it out of oyster
shells by machinery. Nor would he have bought it, not needing it, and have issued against it
his promises to pay in good wampum as fast and as often as they were presented.

It was said that wampum was so cunningly made that neither Jew nor Devil could counterfeit
it. Nevertheless a Connecticut Yankee rigged up a machine that so disturbed the market value
of the beads that in a short time the Long Island mints were closed to the free coinage of
clams. Wampum was demonetized through counterfeit, overproduction and imitation; but when this
occurred the gentle Puritan didn't have enough of it left to supply the museums. The Indian
had parted with his lands and his furs, had redeemed all the outstanding wampum with his labor,
and when he went to market to get firewater, he was taught that he must have gold and silver
to get it. Then he wanted to ride in blood up to his horse's bridles. Commerce had found a
better tool than wampum had become. The buccaneers and the pirates had brought in silver and
that defied the Connecticut man's machinery or the Dutchman's imitations. The years pass by
and commerce finds that silver, because of overproduction, becomes uncertain and erratic in
value, and with the same instinct it chooses gold as a standard of value. A coin of unsteady
value is like a knife of uncertain sharpness. It is thrown aside for one that can do all that
is expected of it. Gold is such a tool. It is the standard of all first-class nations. It is
to-day, and it will remain, the standard of this Republic.

The value of the gold dollar is not in the pictures on it. It is in the grains of gold in it.
Smash it and melt it, and it buys one hundred cents' worth the world over. Deface a silver
dollar and fifty cents of its value goes off yonder among the silent stars. Free coinage means
that the silver miner may make fifty cents' worth of silver cancel a dollar's worth of debts.
This is a greenback doctrine in a silver capsule. Bimetallism is a diplomatic term for international
use. Monometallism with silver as the metal is the dream of the Populist and of the poor deluded
Democratic grasshoppers who dance by the moonshine until they get frost-bitten.

The free-silver heresy is about dead. It has cost this country, at to-day's price for silver,
$170,000,000. The few saddened priests of this unhappy fetich who remain active find their
disciples all rallying round the standard of currency reform. The report of the Secretary of
the Treasury is a confession of national financial sins, and a profession of faith in sound
money doctrines. Every business man will watch with keen interest the progress of a plan for
the reform in our currency. You all know that the straight road is the retirement of the greenback
and the Treasury note, and the withdrawal of the Government from the banking business, and
you will naturally distrust any makeshift measures. The greenback is a war debt, and a debt
that is now troublesome. We are funding and refunding it in gold daily, and are still paying
it out as currency to come back after gold. Any scheme to sequestrate, to hide it under a bushel,
or to put it under lock and key, is a shallow device. The way to retire it is to retire it.
It has served its full purpose, and there never was a better time than now to call it in.

In twelve years all our Government debt matures. The national banking system based upon it
must expire with it, unless existing laws are changed. This system has served the nation well.
No one has ever lost a dollar by a national bank note. The system is worth preserving, and
with a little more liberal treatment it can be made to serve until a currency based upon commercial
credits and linked to a safety fund, a system which works so admirably in Canada, can be engrafted
upon it. There is a great hurry to create such a system now on a basis of the partial sequestration
of the greenback and the Treasury note, but the bottom principle is wrong. The Government should
discourage a commercial credit currency based upon a public credit currency, which, in turn,
rests upon a slender gold deposit, exposed to every holder of a Government demand note. A credit
currency is a double-edged tool, and needs to be handled with great care. We have had so much
crazy-quilt finance that I am sure that we want no more of it. We have been sorely punished
for our financial sins in the past, and now that we are repentant, we want to get everything
right before we go ahead with our full native energy. We have suffered from the distrust of
the world, and then from our own distrust. In retracing our steps let us be sure that we are
on solid ground, and make our "wampum" as good as the best there is in the world. [Applause.]

LORD HERSCHELL

GREAT BRITAIN AND THE UNITED STATES

[Speech of Lord Farrer Herschell at the 130th annual banquet of the
  Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York, November 15, 1898. Lord
  Herschell was present in this country as President of the Joint High
  Commission appointed to arbitrate the dispute between Canada and the
  United States relative to the Bering Sea seal fisheries. Alexander E.
  Orr, President of the Chamber, proposed the toast to which Lord
  Herschell spoke: "The Future Relations between Great Britain and the
  United States--a determined union of heart and purpose will carry the
  forces of justice and humanity the world over."]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE:--I assure you that I am most deeply
sensible of the warm welcome that you have extended to me, and grateful for the manner in which
you have received the words which were uttered introducing me to you. But I can assure you
that I rejoiced to hear the cheers with which this toast was greeted, not merely because they
were a compliment to myself, but because I was satisfied that you were regarding me rather
in the character of a representative of my country, and that there rang in those cheers sentiments
of good will to the country that I have the honor to represent to-night. [Applause.] And I
heard in them something more than that--they indicated to me a conviction that in the continuance
of good relations between your country and mine, there were involved blessings, priceless blessings,
to the countries we love so well. [Applause.]

I can assure you that all my countrymen reciprocate the feeling which has been expressed; that
they desire, as you do, that the cordial relationship should continue, and that they have toward
the United States of America nothing but feelings of good will and a desire for its welfare
and progress. [Applause.] I have said--all my countrymen. I ought, perhaps, not to have been
so bold. There are some fools in all lands. [Laughter.] They are the product of every soil.
No nation has a monopoly of them. [Laughter.] But with these exceptions, I can speak, I think,
for all my countrymen. The echoes of those now distant events of a century and a quarter ago,
which left much soreness behind them, have died away in England. [Applause.] We can rejoice
as much as you rejoice to-day, in the fact that you are one of the leading nations of the world.
[Applause.] And there is to me a peculiar interest in the fact that I, who have had the honor
to fill the office of Lord Chancellor, should be here as the representative of my country engaged
in negotiations between Great Britain and the United States. A century and a quarter ago or
more, a predecessor of mine in that high office made a most unfortunately foolish prediction.
He said, with reference to these (at that time) colonies: "If they withdraw their allegiance,
we shall withdraw our protection; and then they will soon be overrun by the little States of
Genoa and San Marino." [Laughter.] I am happy to say--I must say it for the credit of the office--that
there was even then a distinguished lawyer who was to succeed the Lord Chancellor to whom I
have referred, who made a speech at which to-day neither I nor any one else need blush. But
I could not help thinking of those words when I reflected that I was here negotiating with
the representatives of a mighty nation of seventy millions of people, who have not been overrun
by the little Republics of Genoa and San Marino [laughter], although undoubtedly, in a sense
very different from that which the speaker intended, you may have been overrun by the natives
of some of the Italian towns. [Laughter.]

Gentlemen, there is to-day in my country, as in yours, a pride in the United States. We cannot
forget that if you won your independence, if you achieved your liberties, if you laid the foundations
of your constitution, if you prepared for such a nation as exists here to-day, you were at
that time colonists of Great Britain. The men who laid the foundation stones of the United
States, in which you to-day glory, were those who had gone out from amongst us, who had in
the country of my birth imbibed for the most part their traditions of liberty, and their desire
and determination to achieve it; and, therefore, with no misgiving, with nothing but a feeling
of pride, we may rejoice in your success and in your progress. We long ago admitted the follies
and the wrong-doings of those times, as freely as you could insist upon them yourselves. [Applause.]

I am not going to dwell upon that aspect of the case to-night, because I am quite aware that
sometimes the ready admission of wrong-doing is rather irritating than soothing. [Laughter.]
I remember once hearing a learned counsel, who was conducting the trial of a case before a
judge of great ability but not of the best of tempers, put a question of a character such as
to shock any one accustomed to be guided by the rigid rules of evidence. Strictly in confidence,
I don't think he had the least idea that it was a wrong question, but the learned judge interposed
and said: "That was an improper question, Mr. so and so." "Yes, my Lord, it was very improper."
"Yes," said the judge, "you ought not to have put the question,--a most improper question."
"Yes, sir; I ought not to have put it, a more improper question never was." And the more the
judge reproached him the more submissive he became, until he drove the judge nearly mad. [Laughter.]

Gentlemen, there has been a great deal of discussion lately as to the exact nature of the bond
which united Great Britain and the United States. Some one says blood is thicker than water,
whereupon another with perverse ingenuity begins at once to analyze the blood and discovers
that the elements are not, when resolved, precisely the same. That, it is said, is the bond
of the Anglo-Saxon race; whereupon a Scotchman insists, or a Welshman insists, that it is not
all Anglo-Saxon, that there is something Celtic in its constitution, and that to speak of it
as the Anglo-Saxon race, either in my country or in yours, is not in strictness historically
accurate. Another finds that they are the great English-speaking peoples, whereupon an ingenious
man points out that there are people in Great Britain and its dependencies to whom the English
language is not the most natural means of communication, and that not every inhabitant of the
United States is a perfect master of the English tongue. [Laughter.]

Well, then, I saw an ingenious argument the other day to prove that it is a gross impropriety
to speak of England as the mother country; that the two countries were really in the relation
of sisters, and that we ought to call them sister countries, and not speak of them as mother
and daughter. I am not going to enter into any of this controversy to-night. The probability
is that none of these suggested explanations is a completely adequate explanation of the bond
that binds the two nations together, but that in each of them is to be found some element of
truth. I am not going to dwell on them to-night; I prefer a practical rather than a theoretical
view of any subject, and they all agree in this: a tacit assertion of the fact that there is
a bond which unites Great Britain and the United States such as unites no two other nations
[applause and cheers]; and they express a realization of the fact that there is a very close
relationship between the two countries. Now, undoubtedly we have at times said nasty things
of one another [laughter]; but then that is not proof that we are not near relations. [Laughter.]
Indeed, it might, perhaps, be cited by some as evidence the other way. We have sometimes seemed
to be very near serious--what shall I say?--attacks upon one another. But, again, that is no
proof that a close relationship does not exist between us. It is not impossible that at some
future time, when we are either of us menaced by the intervention of some third party which
seriously threatens our existence or our prosperity, we may find that, whatever differences
arise amongst ourselves from time to time, we shall be ready to unite in defence of each other
against a stranger. [Applause and cheers.] A friend of mine who is a great champion of woman's
rights, and a man of the most chivalrous disposition, when walking home one night, found a
man and a woman, husband and wife, in serious controversy, and the man was just about to strike
his wife. With his usual chivalry he intervened between them. In a moment they were both upon
him [laughter], and he had much ado to withdraw himself from their clutches. May not that,
perhaps, be an indication of the kind of action which relations may show who are not always
perfectly peaceably disposed toward one another?

Gentlemen, I rejoice to think that I am here to take part in an endeavor to compose such differences
as exist at present between the two nations. There is another bond of union beyond the natural
one to which I have alluded, and that is the commercial interests of the two countries. I know
there are some who think that no country can gain in commercial prosperity or make real progress
in commerce except at the expense of some other. I believe that to be a profound mistake. I
do not, of course, deny that a particular interest here or there--perhaps many interests--may
suffer from the stress of international competition, but I think we take too narrow a view
when in gazing on the industrial world we fix our eyes upon this local spot or that, and consider
how this or that particular place may be affected. Our interests are more widespread, strike
deeper roots, roots in more different directions than we are at all times ready to admit or
to conceive. And of this I am perfectly certain, that where two nations are so closely bound
up in commercial intercourse as we are, neither of those nations can possibly progress in commercial
prosperity, without a reflection of that commercial prosperity upon the other nation with which
it deals. [Applause.]

Gentlemen, many of the events which to-day bulk largely in our eyes will look strangely insignificant
when seen through the vista of time; but of this I feel satisfied, that if the men of to-day
by their actions can do anything to put upon a permanent basis cordial, friendly relations
and co-operation between your Republic and the British Empire, these actions will grow in men's
estimation larger rather than smaller, and generations to come will rise to call those blessed
who put the relations of the two countries upon a sound and satisfactory footing. [Applause.]

Gentlemen, however successful we may be, as I trust we shall be successful, in composing such
differences as now exist--in the nature of things it is impossible but that difficulties from
time to time will arise--in the future, how are we going to treat them? In what spirit shall
we meet them as they arise? It sometimes seems to me strange that nations which, after all,
are but collections of individuals should deal with their differences in a manner in which
sensible men as individuals never would dream of treating them. [Applause.] We seem, somehow,
when once we have taken up a position, to feel as if it were impossible to withdraw from it.
We must adhere to it, whether originally we took it up wisely or unwisely, whether it was sound
or unsound. We lash ourselves into a white heat over the differences that arise, although the
relations that they bear to our national life and our national interests may be of comparative
insignificance. If an individual were to deal in that way, always to stand out in every case
for his strict rights, always to be prepared to contest everything, to adhere always to what
he claims as his right, to get into a rage with his neighbor because he would not see as he
saw himself--well, we should call that man an intolerably quarrelsome fellow who was not fit
for civilized human society [cheers]; and yet, as nations, apparently there seems nothing strange
in our doing that which, as individuals, we should be the last to dream of doing.

A friend, a former colleague of mine--now, alas! no more,--told me that he was, many years
ago, travelling up to London with an owner of race horses who was accompanied by his trainer.
When they arrived at the station near the metropolis where the tickets are collected, the ticket-collector
came, and my friend said, "My servant has my ticket in the next carriage." The ticket-collector
retired and presently came back rather angry and said, "I cannot find him." My friend said,
"he is in the next carriage--or the next carriage but one; he is there." As soon as the ticket-collector
retired for the second time the trainer leaned forward and said, "Stick to it, my Lord, you
will tire him out." [Laughter and cheers.] Is not that sometimes a little indicative of the
spirit in which we are inclined to act nationally when we have taken up any position, even
though it be a false one?

Gentlemen, it seems to me that these questions of our future relations with one another are
questions of special moment just now. You are at a parting of the ways. It would be presumptuous,
as it would be unwise, in me to forecast or to attempt to forecast the decision at which you
will arrive on questions that have yet to be solved. But, putting these questions that remain
for solution aside, and dealing only with the events as they are now known and fixed, it is
impossible not to feel that this year marks an epoch in the history of the United States, and
the relation which the United States is to bear to Great Britain, and the relation which Great
Britain is to bear to the United States; and the spirit which is to animate those two peoples
becomes of more importance than it ever has been before. I rejoice to see those flags joined
as they are around this room to-night. [Applause.] God grant that they may never be flaunted
in defiance of one another. [Applause.] I rejoice to see them united in concord, not in any
spirit of arrogance toward other peoples, not as desiring to infringe the rights of any other
power, but because I see in that union a real safeguard for the maintenance of peace in the
world [applause], and because I see more than that--I see the surest guaranty of an extended
reign of liberty and justice. We are paying our cheerful tribute of gratitude and admiration
to one who, though heretofore a stranger to us in person, has made his image a familiar presence
in innumerable hearts, who has brightened the sunshine of many a happy, and cheered the gloom
of many a desponding breast, whose works have been companions to the solitary and a cordial
in the sick man's chamber, and whose natural pathos and thoughtful humor, flowing from a genius
as healthy as it is inventive, have drawn more closely the ties which bind man to his brother
man, and have given us a new sense of the wickedness of injustice, the deformity of selfishness,
the beauty of self-sacrifice, the dignity of humble virtue, and the strength of that love which
is found in "huts where poor men lie."

The new harvest of applause which is gathered by the gifted minds of England, in a country
separated from their own by three thousand miles of ocean, is a privilege peculiar to them,
and one to which no author, however rich in golden opinion won at home, can feel himself indifferent.
No brow can be so thickly shaded with indigenous laurels, as not to wear, with emotion, those
which are the growth of a foreign soil. There is no homage so true and unquestionable as that
which the stranger offers. At home the popularity of an author may, during his own life at
least, be greatly increased by circumstances not at all affecting the intrinsic value of his
writings. The caprice of fashion, the accident of high rank or distinguished social position,
the zeal of a literary faction or a political party, may invest some "Cynthia of the minute"
with a brief notoriety, which resembles true fame only as the meteor resembles the star. But
popularity of this kind is of too flimsy and delicate a texture to bear transportation. It
is only merit of a solid and durable fabric which can survive a voyage across the Atlantic.
It has been said, with as much truth as point, that a foreign nation is a sort of contemporaneous
posterity. Its judgment resembles the calm, unbiased voice of future ages. It has no infusion
of personal feeling; it is a serene and unimpassioned verdict, neither won by favor, nor withheld
from prejudice. The admiration which comes from afar off is valuable in the direct ratio of
its distance, as there is the same degree of assurance that it springs from no secondary cause,
but is a spontaneous and unbought tribute. An English author might see with comparative unconcern
his book upon a drawing-room table in London, but should he chance to meet a well-thumbed copy
of it in a log-house beyond our western mountains, would not his heart swell with just pride
at the thought of the wide space through which his name was diffused and his influence felt,
and would not his lips almost unconsciously utter the expression of the wandering Trojan:--

    "Quæ regio in terris nostri non plena laboris?"

It is also probably true that, in our country, English authors find their warmest and most
impassioned admirers. It is as true of the mind as of the eye, that distance lends enchantment
to the view. There are no hues so soft and delicate as those with which the imagination invests
that which is unseen or faintly discerned. Remoteness in space has the same idealizing effect
as remoteness of time. The voice that comes to us from the dim distance is like that which
comes to us from the dim past. We know, but we do not feel, the interval which separates Shakespeare
from Scott, Milton from Wordsworth, Hume from Hallam. We know them only by those airy creations
of the brain which speak to us through the printed page. Solitude, and silence too, are the
nurses of deep and strong feeling. That imaginative element which exalts the love of Dante
for Beatrice, and of Burns for his "Mary in Heaven," deepens the fervor of admiration with
which the pale, enthusiastic scholar, in some lonely farmhouse in New England, hangs over a
favorite author, who, though perhaps a living contemporary, is recognized only as an absolute
essence of genius, wisdom or truth. The minds of men whom we see face to face appear to shine
upon us darkly through the infirmities of a mortal frame. Their faculties are touched by weariness
or pain, or some humiliating weakness or unhandsome passion thrusts its eclipsing shadow between
us and the light of their genius. Not so with those to whom they speak only through the medium
of books. In these we see the products of those golden hours, when all that was low is elevated,
when all that was dark is illumined, and all that was earthly is transfigured. Books have no
touch of personal infirmity--theirs is undying bloom, immortal youth, perennial fragrance.
Age cannot wrinkle, disease cannot blight, death cannot pierce them. The personal image of
the author is quite as likely to be a hindrance as a help to his book. The actor who played
with Shakespeare in his own "Hamlet" probably did but imperfect justice to that wonderful play,
and the next-door neighbor of a popular author will be very likely to read his books with a
carping, censorious spirit, unknown to him who has seen his vision only in his mind.

Mr. President, I dwell with pleasure on the considerations to which an occasion like this gives
birth. It is good for us to be here. Whatever has a tendency to make two great nations forget
those things in which they differ, and remember those only in which they have a common interest,
is a benefit to them both. Whatever makes the hearts of two countries beat in unison, makes
them more enamored of harmony, more sensitive to discord. Honor to the men of genius who made
two hemispheres thrill to the same electric touch, who at the same time, and with the same
potent spell, are ruling the hearts of men in the mountains of Scotland, the forests of Canada,
the hillsides of New England, the prairies of Illinois, and the burning plains of India. Their
influence, so far as it extends, is a peaceful and a humanizing one. When you have instructed
two men with the same wisdom, and charmed them with the same wit, you have established between
them a bond of sympathy, however slight, and made it so much the more difficult to set them
at variance. When I remember the history of England, how much she has done for law, liberty,
virtue and religion--for all that beautifies and dignifies life--when I realize how much that
is most valuable and characteristic in our own institutions is borrowed from her--when I recall
our obligations to her matchless literature, I feel a throb of gratitude that "Chatham's language
is my mother-tongue," and my heart warms to the land of my fathers. I embrace with peculiar
satisfaction every consideration that tends to give us an unity of spirit in the bond of peace--to
make us blind to each other's faults, and kind to each other's virtues. I feel all the force
of the fine lines of one whom we have the honor to receive as a guest this evening:--

 "Though ages long have passed
    Since our fathers left their home,
  Their pilot in the blast,
    O'er untravelled seas to roam,
  Yet lives the blood of England in our veins.
    And shall we not proclaim
    That blood of honest fame,
    Which no tyranny can tame
      By its chains?

 "While the manners, while the arts
    That mould a nation's soul,
  Still cling around our hearts,--
    Between, let ocean roll,
  Our joint communion breaking with the sun.
  Yet still from either beach
  The voice of blood shall reach,
  More audible than speech--
    We are one."

It is now more than sixty-seven years since the rapid growth of our country was sketched by
Mr. Burke, in the course of his speech on conciliation with America, in a passage whose picturesque
beauty has made it one of the commonplaces of literature, in which he represents the angel
of Lord Bathurst drawing up the curtain of futurity, unfolding the rising glories of England,
and pointing out to him America, a little speck scarce visible in the mass of the national
interest, yet which was destined before he tasted of death to show itself equal to the whole
of that commerce which then attracted the admiration of the world. There are many now living
whose lives extend over the whole of this period--and during that space, what memorable changes
have taken place in the relations of the two countries! Let us imagine the angel of that illustrious
author and statesman, when the last words of that profound and beautiful speech were dying
upon the air, withdrawing him from the congratulations of his friends, and unfolding to him
the future progress of that country, whose growth up to that period he had so felicitously
sketched:--"There is that America, whose interests you have so well understood and so eloquently
maintained, which, at this moment, is taking measures to withdraw from the protection and defy
the power of the mother country. But mourn not that this bright jewel is destined to fall from
your country's crown. It is an obedience to the same law of Providence which sends the full-fledged
bird from the nest, and the man from his father's house. Man shall not be able to sever what
the immutable laws of Providence have joined together. The chafing chains of colonial dependence
shall be exchanged for ties light as air, yet strong as steel. The peaceful and profitable
interchange of commerce--the same language--a common literature--similar laws, and kindred
institutions shall bind you together with cords which neither cold-blooded policy, nor grasping
selfishness, nor fratricidal war, shall be able to snap. Discoveries in science and improvements
in art shall be constantly contracting the ocean which separates you, and the genius of steam
shall link your shores together with a chain of iron and flame. A new heritage of glory shall
await your men of genius in those now unpeopled solitudes. The grand and lovely creations of
your myriad-minded Shakespeare--the majestic line of Milton--the stately energy of Dryden,
and the compact elegance of Pope, shall form and train the minds of uncounted multitudes yet
slumbering in the womb of the future. Her gifted and educated sons shall come over to your
shores with a feeling akin to that which sends the Mussulman to Mecca. Your St. Paul's shall
kindle their devotion; your Westminster Abbey shall warm their patriotism; your Stratford-on-Avon
and Abbotsford shall awaken in their bosoms a depth of emotion in which your own countrymen
shall hardly be able to sympathize. Extraordinary physical advantages and the influence of
genial institutions shall there give to the human race a rate of increase hitherto unparalleled;
but the stream, however much it be widened and prolonged, shall retain the character of the
fountain from which it first flowed. Every wave of population that gains upon that vast green
wilderness shall bear with it the blood, the speech, and the books of England, and aid in transmitting
to the generations that come after it, her arts, her literature, and her laws." If this had
been revealed to him, would it not have required all the glow of his imagination and all the
strength of his judgment to believe it? Let us who are seeing the fulfilment of this vision,
utter the fervent prayer that no sullen clouds of coldness or estrangement may ever obscure
these fair relations, and that the madness of man may never mar the benevolent purposes of God.

SAMUEL REYNOLDS HOLE

WITH BRAINS, SIR!

[Speech of Samuel Reynolds Hole, Dean of Rochester Cathedral, at a
  banquet given in his honor by the Lotos Club, New York City, October
  27, 1894. Frank R. Lawrence, the President of the Club, in introducing
  Dean Hole recalled the fact that the Club had had the honor of
  receiving Dean Stanley and Charles Kingsley.]

GENTLEMEN:--I can assure you that when I received your invitation, having heard so much of
the literary, artistic and social amenities of your famous Club, I resembled in feelings, not
in feature, the beautiful bride of Burleigh, when--

 "A trouble weighed upon her,
    And perplexed her, night and morn,
  With the burthen of an honor
    Unto which she was not born."

I could have quoted the words of the mate in Hood's "Up the Rhine," when during a storm at
sea a titled lady sent for him, and asked him if he could swim. "Yes, my lady," says he, "like
a duck." "That being the case," says she, "I shall condescend to lay hold of your arm all night."
"Too great an honor for the likes of me," says the mate. [Laughter.]

Even when I came into this building--though I am not a shy man, having been educated at Brazenose
College, and preposterously flattered throughout my life, most probably on account of my size,--I
had not lost this sense of unworthiness; but your gracious reception has not only reassured
me, but has induced the delicious hallucination that, at some period forgotten, in some unconscious
condition, I have said something or done something, or written something, which really deserved
your approbation. [Applause.] To be serious, I am, of course, aware why this great privilege
has been conferred upon me. It is because you have associated me with those great men with
whom I was in happy intercourse, that you have made my heart glad to-night.

It has ever been my ambition to blend my life, as the great painter does his colors, "with
brains, sir;" and I venture to think that such a yearning is a magnificent proof that we are
not wholly destitute of this article, as when the poor wounded soldier exclaimed, on hearing
the doctor say that he could see his brains: "Oh, please write home and tell father, for he
has always said I never had any." [Laughter.] Be that as it may, my appreciation of my superiors
has evoked from them a marvellous sympathy, has led to the formation of very precious friendships,
and has been my elevator unto the higher abodes of brightness and freshness, as it is to-night.

Yes, my brothers, it is delightful to dwell "with brains, sir," condensed in books in that
glorious world, a library--a world which we can traverse without being sick at sea or footsore
on land; in which we can reach heights of science without leaving our easy-chair, hear the
nightingales, the poets, with no risk of catarrh, survey the great battle-fields of the world
unscathed; a world in which we are surrounded by those who, whatever their temporal rank may
have been, are its true kings and real nobility, and which places within our reach a wealth
more precious than rubies, "for all things thou canst desire are not to be compared with it."
In this happy world I met Washington Irving, Fenimore Cooper, Hawthorne, Willis, Longfellow,
Whittier and all your great American authors, historical, poetical, pathetic, humorous; and
ever since I have rejoiced to hold converse with them. Nevertheless, it is with our living
companions, with our fellow-men who love books as we do, that this fruition is complete, and
so it comes to pass in the words of one whose name I speak with a full heart, Oliver Wendell
Holmes, that "a dinner-table made up of such material as this is the last triumph of civilization
over barbarism." [Applause.]

We feel as our witty Bishop (afterward Archbishop) Magee described himself, when he said: "I
am just now in such a sweet, genial disposition, that even a curate might play with me." [Great
laughter.] We are bold to state with Artemus Ward, of his regiment composed exclusively of
major-generals, that "we will rest muskets with anybody."

 "Linger, I cried, O radiant Time, thy pow'r
    Hath nothing else to give; life is complete,
  Let but the happy present, hour by hour.
    Itself remember and itself repeat."

And yet one more quotation we are glad to make, wherewith to make some amends for the stupidity
of him who quotes lines most appropriate, by Tennyson, from the "Lotos-Eaters," and repeated
by one who has just crossed the Atlantic:--

 "We have had enough of action, and of motion we,
  Rolled to starboard, rolled to larboard, when the surge was seething free
  Where the wallowing monster spouted his foam-fountains in the sea.
  Let us swear an oath, and keep it with an equal mind,
  In the hollow Lotos-land to live and lie reclined
  On the hills, like gods together, careless of mankind."

Now, gentlemen, let me give, "evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor." [Long applause.]

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES Photogravure after a photograph from life

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES

WELCOME TO THE ALUMNI

[Speech of Oliver Wendell Holmes as President of the day, at the annual
  dinner of the Harvard Alumni Association, in Cambridge, July 19, 1860,
  inaugurating the practice of public speaking at the "Harvard Dinners."
  That year also took place the inauguration of President C. Felton, an
  event to which the speaker alludes in his graceful reference to the
  "goodly armful of scholarship, experience and fidelity" once more
  filling the "old chair of office."]

BROTHERS, BY THE SIDE OF HER WHO IS MOTHER OF US ALL, AND FRIENDS, WHOM SHE WELCOMES AS HER
OWN CHILDREN:--The older sons of our common parent who should have greeted you from this chair
of office, being for different reasons absent, it has become my duty to half fill the place
of these honored, but truant, children to the best of my ability--a most grateful office, so
far as the expression of kind feeling is concerned; an undesired duty, if I look to the comparisons
you must draw between the government of the association existing de jure, and its government
de facto. Your President [Robert C. Winthrop] so graces every assembly which he visits, by
his presence, his dignity, his suavity, his art of ruling, whether it be the council of a nation,
the legislature of a State, or the lively democracy of a dinner-table, that when he enters
a meeting like this, it seems as if the chairs stood back of their own will to let him pass
to the head of the board, and the table itself, that most intelligent of quadrupeds, the half
reasoning mahogany, tipped him a spontaneous welcome to its highest seat, and of itself rapped
the assembly to order. [Applause.]

Your first Vice-President [Charles Francis Adams], whose name and growing fame you know so
much better than his bodily presentment, has not been able to gratify your eyes and ears by
showing you the lineaments and stirring you with the tones inherited from men who made their
country or shaped its destinies. [Applause.] You and I have no choice therefore, and I must
submit to stand in this place of eminence as a speaker, instead of sitting a happy listener
with my friends and classmates on the broader platform beneath. Through my lips must flow the
gracious welcome of this auspicious day, which brings us all together in this family temple
under the benignant smile of our household divinities, around the ancient altar fragrant with
the incense of our grateful memories.

This festival is always a joyous occasion. It resembles a scattered family without making any
distinction except that which age establishes, an aristocracy of silver hairs which all inherit
in their turn, and none is too eager to anticipate. In the great world outside there are and
must be differences of lot and position; one has been fortunate, another, toiling as nobly
perhaps, has fallen in with adverse currents; one has become famous, his name stares in great
letters from the hand-bills of the drama of his generation; another lurks in small type among
the supernumeraries. But here we stand in one unbroken row of brotherhood. No symbol establishes
a hierarchy that divides one from another; every name which has passed into our golden book,
the triennial catalogue, is illuminated and emblazoned in our remembrance and affection with
the purple and sunshine of our common Mother's hallowed past and hopeful future.

We have at this time a twofold reason for welcoming the return of our day of festive meeting.
The old chair of office, against whose uneasy knobs have rested so many well-compacted spines,
whose uncushioned arms have embraced so many stately forms, over whose inheritance of cares
and toils have ached so many ample brows, is filled once more with a goodly armful of scholarship,
experience and fidelity. The President never dies. Our precious Mother must not be left too
long a widow, for the most urgent of reasons. We talk so much about her maternity that we are
apt to overlook the fact that a responsible Father is as necessary to the good name of a well-ordered
college as to that of a well-regulated household. As children of the College, our thoughts
naturally centre on the fact that she has this day put off the weeds of her nominal widowhood,
and stands before us radiant in the adornment of her new espousals. You will not murmur, that,
without debating questions of precedence, we turn our eyes upon the new head of the family,
to whom our younger brothers are to look as their guide and counsellor as we hope and trust
through many long and prosperous years.

Brothers of the Association of the Alumini! Our own existence as a society is so bound up with
that of the College whose seal is upon our foreheads, that every blessing we invoke on our
parent's head returns like the dew from Heaven upon our own. So closely is the welfare of our
beloved Mother knitted to that of her chief counsellor and official consort, that in honoring
him we honor her under whose roof we are gathered, at whose breast we have been nurtured, whose
fair fame is our glory, whose prosperity is our success, whose lease of long life is the charter
of our own perpetuity.

I propose the health of the President of Harvard University: We greet our brother as the happy
father of a long line of future alumni.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOROTHY Q.

[Speech of Oliver Wendell Holmes at the banquet of the Boston
  Merchants' Association at Boston, Mass., May 23, 1884, in honor of the
  Hon. John Lowell.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--It was my intention, when I accepted the public invitation to
be with you this evening, to excuse myself from saying a word. I am a professor emeritus, which
means pretty nearly the same thing as a tired-out or a worn-out instructor. And I do seriously
desire that, having during the last fifty years done my share of work at public entertainments,
I may hereafter be permitted, as a post-prandial emeritus, to look on and listen in silence
at the festivals to which I may have the honor of being invited--unless, indeed, I may happen
to wish to be heard. [Applause.] In that case I trust I may be indulged, as an unspoken speech
and an unread poem are apt to "strike in," as some complaints are said to, and cause inward
commotions. [Applause.] Judge Lowell's eulogy will be on every one's lips this evening. His
soundness, his fairness, his learning, his devotion to duty, his urbanity,--these are the qualities
which have commended him to universal esteem and honor. [Applause.] I will not say more of
the living; I wish to speak of the dead.

In respectfully proposing the memory of his great-great-grandmother [laughter], I am speaking
of one whom few if any of you can remember. [Laughter.] Yet her face is as familiar to me as
that of any member of my household. She looks upon me as I sit at my writing-table; she does
not smile, she does not speak; even the green parrot on her hand has never opened his beak;
but there she is, calm, unchanging, in her immortal youth, as when the untutored artist fixed
her features on the canvas. To think that one little word from the lips of Dorothy Quincy,
your great-great-grandmother, my great-grandmother, decided the question whether you and I
should be here to-night [laughter], in fact whether we should be anywhere [laughter] at all,
or remain two bodiless dreams of nature! But it was Dorothy Quincy's "Yes" or "No" to Edward
Jackson which was to settle that important matter--important to both of us, certainly--yes,
Your Honor; and I can say truly, as I look at you and remember your career, important to this
and the whole American community. [Applause.]

The picture I referred to is but a rude one, and yet I was not ashamed of it when I wrote a
copy of verses about it, three or four of which this audience will listen to for the sake of
Dorothy's great-grandson.

[Applause prolonged.]

I give you: "The memory of Dorothy Jackson, born Dorothy Quincy, to whose choice of the right
monosyllable we owe the presence of our honored guest and all that his life has achieved for
the welfare of the community." [Great applause and cheers.]

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, JR.

SONS OF HARVARD WHO FELL IN BATTLE

[Speech of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, son of the "Autocrat," at the
  Harvard Alumni Dinner, at Cambridge, June 25, 1884.]

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE ALUMNI:--Another day than this has been consecrated to the
memories of the war. On that day we think not of the children of the university or the city,
hardly, even, of the children whom the State has lost, but of a mighty brotherhood whose parent
was our common country. To-day the college is the centre of all our feeling, and if we refer
to the war it is in connection with the college, and not for its own sake that we do so. What
then did the college do to justify our speaking of the war now? She sent a few gentlemen into
the field, who died there becomingly. I know of nothing more. The great forces which ensured
the North success would have been at work even if those men had been absent. Our means of raising
money and troops would not have been less, I dare say. The great qualities of the race, too,
would still have been there. The greatest qualities, after all, are those of a man, not those
of a gentleman, and neither North nor South needed colleges to learn them.

And yet--and yet I think we all feel that, to us, at least, the war would seem less beautiful
and inspiring, if those few gentlemen had not died as they did. Look at yonder portrait[7]
and yonder bust[8] and tell me if stories such as they commemorate do not add a glory to the
bare fact that the strongest legions prevailed. So it has been since wars began. After history
has done its best to fix men's thoughts upon strategy and finance, their eyes have turned and
rested on some single romantic figure--some Sidney, some Falkland, some Wolfe, some Montcalm,
some Shaw. This is that little touch of the superfluous which is necessary. Necessary as art
is necessary, and knowledge which serves no mechanical end. Superfluous only as glory is superfluous,
or a bit of red ribbon that a man would die to win.

It has been one merit of Harvard College that it has never quite sunk to believing that its
only function was to carry a body of specialists through the first stage of their preparation.
About these halls there has always been an aroma of high feeling not to be found or lost in
science or Greek--not to be fixed, yet all-pervading. And the warrant of Harvard College for
writing the names of its dead graduates upon its tablets is not in the mathematics, the chemistry,
the political economy which it taught them, but that, in ways not to be discovered, by traditions
not to be written down, it helped men of lofty natures to make good their faculties. I hope
and I believe that it will long give such help to its children. I hope and I believe that long
after our tears for the dead have been forgotten, this monument to their memory will still
give such help to generations to whom it is only a symbol--a symbol of man's destiny and power
for duty, but a symbol also of that something more by which duty is swallowed up in generosity,
that something more which led men like Shaw to toss life and hope like a flower before the
feet of their country and their cause. [Cheers.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JOY OF LIFE

[Speech of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, at a banquet in his honor
  given by the Suffolk Bar Association, Boston, March 7, 1900, upon his
  elevation to the Chief Justiceship of the Supreme Judicial Court of
  Massachusetts. Justice Holmes, upon rising to the toast of the
  presiding officer, was received with cheers, the entire company
  rising.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE SUFFOLK BAR:--The kindness of this reception almost unmans me, and it shakes
me the more when taken with a kind of seriousness which the moment has for me. As with a drowning
man, the past is telescoped into a minute, and the stages are all here at once in my mind.
The day before yesterday I was at the law school, fresh from the army, arguing cases in a little
club with Goulding and Beaman and Peter Olney, and laying the dust of pleading by certain sprinklings
which Huntington Jackson, another ex-soldier, and I managed to contrive together. A little
later in the day, in Bob Morse's, I saw a real writ, acquired a practical conviction of the
difference between assumpsit and trover, and marvelled open-mouthed at the swift certainty
with which a master of his business turned it off.

Yesterday I was at the law school again, in the chair instead of on the benches, when my dear
partner, Shattuck, came out and told me that in one hour the Governor would submit my name
to the council for a judgeship, if notified of my assent. It was a stroke of lightning which
changed the whole course of my life.

And the day before yesterday, gentlemen, was thirty-five years, and yesterday was more than
eighteen years, ago. I have gone on feeling young, but I have noticed that I have met fewer
of the old to whom to show my deference, and recently I was startled by being told that ours
is an old bench. Well, I accept the fact, although I find it hard to realize, and I ask myself,
what is there to show for this half lifetime that has passed? I look into my book in which
I keep a docket of the decisions of the full court which fall to me to write, and find about
a thousand cases. A thousand cases, many of them upon trifling or transitory matters, to represent
nearly half a lifetime! A thousand cases, when one would have liked to study to the bottom
and to say his say on every question which the law ever has presented, and then to go on and
invent new problems which should be the test of doctrine, and then to generalize it all and
write it in continuous, logical, philosophic exposition, setting forth the whole corpus with
its roots in history and its justifications of expedience, real or supposed!

Alas, gentlemen, that is life. I often imagine Shakespeare or Napoleon summing himself up and
thinking: "Yes, I have written five thousand lines of solid gold, and a good deal of padding--I,
who have covered the milky way with words which outshine the stars!" "Yes, I beat the Austrians
in Italy and elsewhere; I made a few brilliant campaigns, and I ended in middle life in a cul-de-sac--I
who had dreamed of a world monarchy and of Asiatic power!" We cannot live in our dreams. We
are lucky enough if we can give a sample of our best, and if in our hearts we can feel that
it has been nobly done.

Some changes come about in the process: changes not necessarily so much in the nature as in
the emphasis of our interest. I do not mean in our wish to make a living and to succeed--of
course, we all want those things--but I mean in our ulterior intellectual or spiritual interests,
in the ideal part, without which we are but snails or tigers.

One begins with a search for a general point of view. After a time he finds one, and then for
a while he is absorbed in testing it, in trying to satisfy himself whether it is true. But
after many experiments or investigations, all have come out one way, and his theory is confirmed
and settled in his mind; he knows in advance that the next case will be but another verification,
and the stimulus of anxious curiosity is gone. He realizes that his branch of knowledge only
presents more illustrations of the universal principle; he sees it all as another case of the
same old ennui, or the same sublime mystery--for it does not matter what epithets you apply
to the whole of things, they are merely judgments of yourself. At this stage the pleasure is
no less, perhaps, but it is the pure pleasure of doing the work, irrespective of further aims,
and when you reach that stage you reach, as it seems to me, the triune formula of the joy,
the duty and the end of life.

It was of this that Malebranche was thinking when he said that, if God held in one hand truth
and in the other the pursuit of truth, he would say: "Lord, the truth is for thee alone; give
me the pursuit." The joy of life is to put out one's power in some natural and useful or harmless
way. There is no other. And the real misery is not to do this. The hell of the old world's
literature is to be taxed beyond one's powers. This country has expressed in story--I suppose
because it has experienced it in life--a deeper abyss of intellectual asphyxia or vital ennui,
when powers conscious of themselves are denied their chance.

The rule of joy and the law of duty seem to me all one. I confess that altruistic and cynically
selfish talk seem to me about equally unreal. With all humility, I think "Whatever thy hand
findeth to do, do it with thy might," infinitely more important than the vain attempt to love
one's neighbor as one's self. If you want to hit a bird on the wing, you must have all your
will in a focus, you must not be thinking about yourself, and, equally, you must not be thinking
about your neighbor; you must be living in your eye on that bird. Every achievement is a bird
on the wing.

The joy, the duty, and, I venture to add, the end of life. I speak only of this world, of course,
and of the teachings of this world. I do not seek to trench upon the province of spiritual
guides. But from the point of view of the world the end of life is life. Life is action, the
use of one's powers. As to use them to their height is our joy and duty, so it is the one end
that justifies itself. Until lately the best thing that I was able to think of in favor of
civilization, apart from blind acceptance of the order of the universe, was that it made possible
the artist, the poet, the philosopher, and the man of science. But I think that is not the
greatest thing. Now I believe that the greatest thing is a matter that comes directly home
to us all. When it is said that we are too much occupied with the means of living to live,
I answer that the chief work of civilization is just that it makes the means of living more
complex; that it calls for great and combined intellectual efforts, instead of simple, uncoordinated
ones, in order that the crowd may be fed and clothed and housed and moved from place to place.
Because more complex and intense intellectual efforts mean a fuller and richer life. They mean
more life. Life is an end in itself, and the only question as to whether it is worth living
is whether you have enough of it.

I will add but a word. We are all very near despair. The sheathing that floats us over its
waves is compounded of hope, faith in the unexplainable worth and sure issue of effort, and
the deep, sub-conscious content which comes from the exercise of our powers. In the words of
a touching negro song: "sometimes I's up, sometimes I's down, sometimes I's almost to the groun',"
but these thoughts have carried me, as I hope they will carry the young men who hear me, through
long years of doubt, self-distrust and solitude. They do now, for, although it might seem that
the day of trial was over, in fact it is renewed each day. The kindness which you have shown
me makes me bold in happy moments to believe that the long and passionate struggle has not
been quite in vain. [Applause.]

LORD HOUGHTON

(RICHARD MONCKTON MILNES)

YOUR SPEECH AND OURS

[Speech of Lord Houghton, in response to William Cullen Bryant, at a
  breakfast given in his honor at the Century Club, New York, October
  17, 1875. William Cullen Bryant, President of the Club, presided, and
  said in part: "Our guest, Lord Houghton, was not born a lord, but he
  was born a poet, which I take to be something better. Some forty years
  ago, I think it was, he wandered in Switzerland, Italy and Greece, and
  the impressions made upon his mind are woven into his beautiful series
  of poems published under the title of 'Memorials of Many Scenes.' At a
  later period, perhaps ten years afterward, he traveled in Egypt and
  the western coast of Asia, and returned, bringing with him a sheaf of
  'Palm-Leaves,' a series of charming poems, inspired by the remarkable
  places which he visited, and by the incidents of his journey. These
  'palm-leaves,' let me say, have a perennial verdure, they are yet as
  green as when they were gathered and still breathe Sabæan odors--the
  spicy perfume of the Orient--what the old poet Donne calls 'the
  almighty balm of the early East.' He is now a traveler in our
  territory, a region almost without antiquities, but of sufficient
  interest to attract his steps hither. He will doubtless see faults in
  our social and political condition--the eyes of a stranger are quicker
  to discern them than our own can be--but let us hope that he will
  carry back to his native land the recollections of a cordial reception
  among our people, such as I hope we are ever ready to accord to
  personal worth, to genius, and to services rendered to the human race.
  The only time I ever saw Dr. Bowring, which was some thirty years
  since, when he was a member of Parliament, of the party called
  Radical, is memorable with me on account of the eulogy of our guest,
  which he uttered with much warmth and enthusiasm. He praised the
  generosity of his sentiments and the largeness of his sympathies. 'At
  his table,' he added, 'you meet with men of various differing
  opinions; the only title to his hospitality and esteem is personal
  merit.' The same rule of preference which he applied to the
  individuals whom he admitted to his friendship, had governed him
  throughout a long public life in the measures which he had supported.
  His co-operation and efficient aid have been given to proceedings and
  measures which contemplate the well-being of the people--to useful and
  beneficial reforms. In their favor he steadily gave his vote and
  raised his voice. In honoring him we, therefore, honor not only the
  poet, but the philanthropist and the statesman. I propose, therefore,
  the health of Lord Houghton."]

MR. BRYANT AND GENTLEMEN:--In finding myself here now for the first time, I am agitated by
conflicting emotions, by my pleasure in being among you, and by my regret at not having been
here before.

In alluding to my poetic experience, Mr. Bryant mentioned that I had passed many years of my
early life in Italy, and while he was so doing there arose in my memory a little incident not
inapplicable to my present position. I passed some time at Venice; and one summer evening,
on the Piazza di San Marco, my attention was attracted by an old man, who walked up and down
with a mingled air of wonder and delight, and who, after I had observed him for some moments,
came and asked me in the Venetian dialect what streets he was to take toward a certain remote
portion of the city. I said I was a foreigner, and that he, being a native of the place, must
know its geography better than I could. He then told me that he was there for the first time.
He had passed all his life in his own distinct world, there earning his daily bread, and occupied
by its little local interests. At last a friend had told him that he must see the Place and
Church of San Marco before he died, and put him in a boat and landed him there, and now he
wanted to find his way home, charmed and contented.

Gentlemen, I am in the position of that Venetian veteran, and shall return to my country, happy
that I have at last found my way to this great place and habitation--the civitas of English-speaking
people. Not that I have ever failed to regard this country in many senses as my own, from the
time when I took moral comfort from the flight of Mr. Bryant's "Wild Fowl" across the ocean,
and took the best lesson of life from the Psalm of Longfellow. Since then I have ever been
with you in all your intellectual progress, and in the necessarily checkered course of your
constitutional history, and never more than in the late solemn years, in all the national difficulties
which you have so energetically, so persistently, and so humanely surmounted.

In looking back to my impressions of those times, I sometimes think that my sympathy with you
was not wholly unselfish, but that I felt that, if I had ever written anything which has a
chance of a prolonged existence, I should wish it to be read, not by any distracted and impotent
communities of British race, but by America, one and indivisible. And, gentlemen, this is not
unnatural, for amid all the divisions or distractions of your history, your literature has
ever been patriotic and national. Literature, in truth, has been to you a good and faithful
emigrant, reproductive not only of all intellectual growth, but of the sympathies--the largest
sympathies--which bind together man to man. It has settled among you every classic writer of
British origin, and from the Continent it has brought to you Goethe, Schiller, and Heinrich
Heine. It is also noticeable that by the side of these great colonizations of thought you have
not refused to receive and to pass to your furthest Territories the humblest addition, the
single volume of verse, the chance felicitous expression of combined thought and feeling, even
some accidental refrain of song that had pleasantly caught the ear and gone to the heart of man.

And this brings me to say to you one professional word respecting that art and the nature of
poetry that you have been kind enough to connect with my name. The greater part of the verses
I have written were that product of the lyrical period of youth which is by no means uncommon
in modern civilization. It exhibits itself sometimes in the strangest manner, without connection
with other culture, or even the most common intellectual opportunities. Of this I happen to
have given to the world a signal instance in the volume I published of the poems of David Gray,
a Scotch weaver-boy, who, without one advantage beyond the common education of his class, described
all the nature within his ken in the highest poetic perfection, and passed away, leaving a
most pathetic record of a short life of imaginative sensibility. You can contrast this simple
and wayside flower of a faculty with such rich and complete cultivation as it can assume in
the efflorescence of Tennyson or Swinburne; but in whatever form you find it, do not the less
value the faculty itself. Permit me to say that in no condition of society can it be encouraged
and fertilized more usefully than among yourselves. For not only will it bring with it calm
and comfort amid all the superabundant activities, ambitions, and confusions of daily life,
but it has also the regulative powers teaching men to divide the sphere of the imagination
from that of practical life, and thus obviating the dangers that so often arise from the want
of this distinction.

There is no better preservative than the exercise of the poetic faculty from religious hallucinations,
from political delusions, and I would say even from financial extravagances. Therefore, through
the whole vast range of this new world, be on the watch to look out for and to encourage this
great gift to man. Do not be too hard with any imperfections or absence of refinement which
may accompany its exhibition. Do not treat it too critically or with too much scholastic censure.
Recognize also its value on another ground--the extension and the perpetuation of our great
common language--an interest not less dear to every one of us here present than to the future
welfare of mankind:--

 "Beyond the vague Atlantic deep,
  Far as the farthest prairies sweep,
  Where mountain wastes the sense appall
  Where burns the radiant Western Fall,
  One duty lies on old and young--
    With filial piety to guard,
    As on its greenest native sward,
  The glory of the English tongue!

 "That ample speech, that subtle speech,
  Apt for the needs of all in each,
  Strong to endure, yet prompt to bend
  Wherever human feelings tend,
  Preserve its force, expand its powers,
    And through the maze of civil life,
    In letters, commerce, e'en in strife,
  Remember, it is yours and ours!"

       *       *       *       *       *

BONDS OF NATIONAL SYMPATHY

[Response of Lord Houghton to the address of Joseph H. Choate at the
  farewell reception given in honor of Lord Houghton by the Union League
  Club, New York City, November 23, 1875.]

MR. CHOATE AND GENTLEMEN:--Before you spoke I had much difficulty to interpret to myself the
meaning of my reception here. So unimportant as I know myself to have been before, in political
and social life, I have been surprised at the manner in which I have been received in the United
States of America. You, sir, have given an explanation of that problem which I am very thankful
to receive. The habit of Americans to welcome Englishmen, whatever may be their position, in
itself proves to me that you regard us as something above individuals, and that, somehow or
other, you connect us in every way by imagination, if no other, as present with that great
country over the Atlantic which was your mother, and which it has been the habit of many of
your ancestors to call their home. [Applause.] Mr. Choate has alluded to certain events in
my political life, which he says fully justify your kindness and remarkable sympathy of to-day,
and on that matter, if there are to be any relations between myself and the Americans, upon
that point I can say that I deserve credit. I do not say this with any affectation, because
I understand fully your feelings upon that matter. I fully recognize, I completely comprehend,
as man to man, that in that day of your greatest trouble, even the small voice that came over
the great Atlantic was listened to with extreme pleasure and unexaggerated sympathy.

But when I look to myself, I am bound to say I find extremely little merit in the matter. There
was one ground of sympathy between you and the English people, which you had the holiest right
to believe would have been absolute and overpowering. The English nation had put itself forward
as the great opponent of slavery in the world. [Applause.] It had stated at the Congress of
Vienna that the one point which England required as the sine qua non was the abolition of the
slave trade. For that purpose England not only asserted itself, but interfered up to the utmost
limit, perhaps beyond the limits of the law of nations, with all the powers of the world. Therefore,
you had a perfect right to believe, to suppose, that in a question, in a matter in which we
were not only internationally but morally interested, the questions would be fully considered.

Well, gentlemen, I cannot say that it was so. As an individual I have not the right to reproach
my country upon that point. That was not my first feeling in the matter. I felt, I knew, slavery
was doomed from the civilized world. My heart, my instincts, my sense of the well-being of
every civilized state was against the continuance of that institution. [Applause.] I knew,
though it was possible--aye, I would fain say probable--that the condition of the slave, under
many conditions, under many circumstances, might be better than that of the free laborer of
the world, that the condition of the slave owner was incompatible with the highest form of
moral culture and highest ambition. I always think that question had political as well as moral
and religious considerations, and that, through the unhappy condition of this continent, the
question of slavery got so intermixed with the question of property that, however humane, however
wise men were, yet nevertheless it would bring with it an incidental condition of cruelty abhorrent
to mankind, and that, therefore, that institution could not continue to the end. [Applause.]

But, making a clean breast of it, that was not the bottom of my sympathy. My sympathy with
you comes, as Mr. Choate has said, by "an instinct unawares," and this was confirmed by any
reasoning and any deductions I might have had. From the imagination of my earliest youth, from
the sympathy of the most vivid time, and from the most logical look at the situation in my
mature life, I came to the conclusion that the destiny of the present and the future world
rests with great and undivided empires. [Applause.] I had lived to see Italy, out of its confusion
of States, growing up into a great integrity, renewing the promises of the wonderful classic
times and the glory of Rome renovated into a new and prosperous nation. I have lived to see,
we have all lived to see, the same process taking place in Germany. In Germany, notwithstanding
the greatest division, the most peculiar separation of religion and even of races, yet nevertheless
that great German empire is coming forward as a monument of the civilization of the future
world, and as the centre of all Europe against any form of Oriental barbarism. And I knew from
the history of my own country that that was no new principle, but one we had always maintained.
England never at any moment thought of giving up the principle of the integrity of its empire.
You yourselves are the evidences of the energy with which we sustained it. [Prolonged applause.]
And we had at our doors, we had within us, another nation, in many points alien to ourselves;
of a different race largely, of a different religion almost generally; a nation which we had
treated sometimes with kindness, sometimes with harshness, sometimes with justice, and many
other times with injustice; but always on the principle of the integrity of the empire. [Applause.]
And I could not see how an intelligent man could see what Italy was growing to, prophesy what
Germany would become, and, knowing the difficulties of the present Ireland, how that man could
wish to destroy the integrity of the United States. Fact and history were against him, and
in addition to that I felt that--in favoring or in sustaining your separation, in allowing
special and local sympathy to act upon me, instead of the great logic of historical truths--if
I could have allowed myself to act in that line of sympathy which would have bound me to my
countrymen, I should have felt I had belied the truth of history as well as, I believe, the
foundation of general morality. [Great applause.]

Therefore, gentlemen, I have little individual merit for whatever I may have said upon that
matter. I tell you that that was the calculation, the best calculation of my own mind, that
it was the simple result of the deduction of my own reasoning [applause], and if you have shown
me gratitude on this matter I will not say that I have not felt in a certain sense it was not
deserved, from the motives I have alluded to. And if, as some cynic has said, gratitude is
nothing whatever but the means of securing favors to come, I can assure you that you have accomplished
your object [laughter and applause], and if you have desired that, in any means which Providence
has placed in my power, in any influence direct or indirect which I may exert, I shall speak
as I have spoken and think as I have thought of the United States of America, you may be well
sure that I will do so. [Applause.]

On another occasion when I have been kindly received, I have spoken of my literary sympathy
with this country. Every Englishman rightly looks to this country as he would with a sense
of appeal to posterity. He feels that if he has said anything, if he has written anything,
if he has touched any chord, if he has struck even any verbal assurance that pleases mankind,
if you take it up you pass it on; it does not go from tongue to tongue in the little distant
Anglia of Europe.

I recognize that I have met in this country men whom I shall be glad to meet anywhere and with
whose familiarity I have been honored. And I might say this, that if I were to compare the
best men that I have met here with the best men that I have known in Europe, I should say simply
this, that the men that I have found here seem to me as equal to the circumstances in which
they have been placed, as intelligent in all their relations of life, as noble in their innermost
impulses, as just in their expressions, as any I have ever met with in my intercourse with
people in Europe. [Applause.] I have been honored with the familiarity of many distinguished
men, I have been received with great kindness by your intelligent and able President. I had
the fortune, the other day, to sit by the deathbed of that amiable, honest man, your Vice-President
[Henry Wilson], in the Capitol at Washington, dying under the portrait of Jefferson. I have
seen some of your able men with whom I have been intimate in Europe, and one whom you will
allow me to mention above all others, a man whose career I witnessed during the great and stormy
times of your troubles in England--Charles Francis Adams [long applause]--whose maintenance
of your dignity was concurrent with a sense of the importance of good relations between England
and America.

Gentlemen, next year you will celebrate your Centennial, and I have been kindly asked by every
person who wished me good-bye to come back to this Centennial. [Laughter.] As for the Centennial
itself, I have no particular inclination to come back. I think it is quite right you should
have your Centennial, but I do not quite see what an Englishman has to do with it. [Long laughter
and applause.] It is a thing which a philosopher might almost make the foundation of a theory,
that you who are going to have this magnificent celebration of the one hundredth year of your
liberation from the horrible rule of England, at the same time accompany it with the warmest
feelings toward the British nation. [Laughter and applause.] Now, if you will clearly understand
that this Centennial is to be your last celebration of this kind, and that from that moment
you become part of the great community of Europe, then I say it will be a very useful celebration
and one which all the world will be ready to honor. Celebrating your independence, you call
it. A very noble act at a very noble time! Your repulsion was fully justified by the folly
and the stupidity and the ignorance of England.

The causes of England and America are not different, but common to both. You have your own
local difficulties, just as we have. You have your own religious difficulties, just as we have.
Take a single instance. The question of local taxation--a very serious question with you, a
question agitated in the great States. That question is one of the greatest importance that
we are at this moment discussing in politics. It is a matter of great interest to us whether
local taxation should be entrusted and commissioned to a body of persons specially appointed
for that purpose by the Crown, or whether it should be entrusted to certain persons selected
by the people. That will be one of the most important questions we shall have to consider in
the next session or two of Parliament. It is said that there is great profusion, great waste,
in our present arrangement of those matters, and that if our local expenditure were conducted
by persons specially appointed for that purpose, it would be cheaper. I don't say more honestly,
but more economically managed. This is a question that you are agitating at the present moment,
and one that affects the politics of your great cities.

Take again railroads. It is a question whether the railroad should be in the hands of the State
or of private companies. We are talking about it every day. Our interest in rapid transit has
been very much the same as yours. Our rapid transit has not only gone over certain unfortunate
persons who stood in the way, but it has gone over ruined hopes and prostrated energies. There
is hardly a question that I see agitated in American newspapers that, in one form or another,
is not agitated with us. The act of Parliament which restored to England specie payments was
met with exactly the same argument, exactly the same controversy, exactly the same speciousness
as meet you in this country. We have followed you on the matter of popular education. You have
been our teachers in that branch. We are at present following in your footsteps. [Applause.]

JULIA WARD HOWE

TRIBUTE TO OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES

[Speech of Julia Ward Howe at the breakfast in celebration of the
  seventieth birthday of Oliver Wendell Holmes, given by the publishers
  of the "Atlantic Monthly," Boston, Mass., December 3, 1879. Mrs. Howe
  sat at the right of Mr. Howells, then the editor of the "Atlantic,"
  who presided at one end of the tables, with Mr. Emerson on his left.
  Dr. Holmes sat on the right of Mr. Houghton, who presided at the other
  end of the table, with Mrs. Stowe on his left. Mrs. Howe was called up
  by the toast, "The girls we have not left behind us."]

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--One word in courtesy I must say in replying to so kind a mention as
that which is made, not only of me, but of those of my sex who are so happy as to be present
here to-day. I think, in looking on this scene, of a certain congress which took place in Paris
more than a year ago, and it was called a congress of literary people, gens de lettres. When
I heard that this was to take place I immediately bestirred myself to attend its sittings and
went at once to the headquarters to find how I might do so. I then learned to my great astonishment
that no women were to be included among these gens de lettres, that is, literary people. [Laughter.]
Now, we have thought it a very modest phrase sometimes to plead that, whatever women may not
be, they are people. [Laughter and applause.] And it would seem to-day that they are recognized
as literary people, and I am very glad that you gentlemen have found room for the sisterhood
to-day, and have found room to place them so numerously here, and I must say that to my eyes
the banquet looks very much more cheerful than it would without them. [Applause.] It looks
to me as though it had all blossomed out under a new social influence, and beside each dark
stem I see a rose. [Laughter and applause.] But I must say at once that I came here entirely
unprovided with a speech, and, not dreaming of one, yet I came provided with something. I considered
myself invited as a sort of grandmother--indeed, I am, and I know a grandmother is usually
expected to have something in her pocket. [Laughter and applause.] And I have a very modest
tribute to the illustrious person whom we are met to-day to honor. With your leave I will read
it. [Applause.]

    Thou metamorphic god!
  Who mak'st the straight Olympus thy abode,
    Hermes to subtle laughter moving,
    Apollo with serener loving,
  Thou demi-god also!
  Who dost all the powers of healing know;
    Thou hero who dost wield
    The golden sword and shield,--
  Shield of a comprehensive mind,
  And sword to wound the foes of human kind;

    Thou man of noble mould!
    Whose metal grows not cold
  Beneath the hammer of the hurrying years;
    A fiery breath doth blow
    Across its fervid glow,
  And still its resonance delights our ears;

    Loved of thy brilliant mates,
    Relinquished to the fates,
  Whose spirit music used to chime with thine,
    Transfigured in our sight,
    Not quenched in death's dark night,
  They hold thee in companionship divine.

    O autocratic muse!
    Soul-rainbow of all hues,
  Packed full of service are thy bygone years;
    Thy winged steed doth fly
    Across the starry sky,
  Bearing the lowly burthens of thy tears.

    I try this little leap,
    Wishing that from the deep,
  I might some pearl of song adventurous bring.
    Despairing, here I stop,
    And my poor offering drop,--
  Why stammer I when thou art here to sing?

CLARK HOWELL

OUR REUNITED COUNTRY

[Speech of Clark Howell at the Peace Jubilee Banquet in Chicago, October
  19, 1898, in response to the toast, "Our Reunited Country: North and
  South."]

MR. TOASTMASTER, AND MY FELLOW COUNTRYMEN:--In the mountains of my State, in a county remote
from the quickening touch of commerce, and railroads and telegraphs--so far removed that the
sincerity of its rugged people flows unpolluted from the spring of nature--two vine-covered
mounds, nestling in the solemn silence of a country churchyard, suggest the text of my response
to the sentiment to which I am to speak to-night. A serious text, Mr. Toastmaster, for an occasion
like this, and yet out of it there is life and peace and hope and prosperity, for in the solemn
sacrifice of the voiceless grave can the chiefest lesson of the Republic be learned, and the
destiny of its real mission be unfolded. So bear with me while I lead you to the rust-stained
slab, which for a third of a century--since Chickamauga--has been kissed by the sun as it peeped
over the Blue Ridge, melting the tears with which the mourning night had bedewed the inscription:--

 "Here lies a Confederate soldier.
      He died for his country."

The September day which brought the body of this mountain hero to that home among the hills
which had smiled upon his infancy, been gladdened by his youth, and strengthened by his manhood,
was an ever memorable one with the sorrowing concourse of friends and neighbors who followed
his shot-riddled body to the grave. And of that number no man gainsaid the honor of his death,
lacked full loyalty to the flag for which he fought, or doubted the justice of the cause for
which he gave his life.

Thirty-five years have passed; another war has called its roll of martyrs; again the old bell
tolls from the crude latticed tower of the settlement church; another great pouring of sympathetic
humanity, and this time the body of a son, wrapped in the stars and stripes, is lowered to
its everlasting rest beside that of the father who sleeps in the stars and bars.

There were those there who stood by the grave of the Confederate hero years before, and the
children of those were there, and of those present no one gainsaid the honor of the death of
this hero of El Caney, and none were there but loved, as patriots alone can love, the glorious
flag that enshrines the people of a common country as it enshrouds the form that will sleep
forever in its blessed folds. And on this tomb will be written:--

 "Here lies the son of a Confederate soldier.
      He died for his country."

And so it is that between the making of these two graves human hands and human hearts have
reached a solution of the vexed problem that has baffled human will and human thought for three
decades. Sturdy sons of the South have said to their brothers of the North that the people
of the South had long since accepted the arbitrament of the sword to which they had appealed.
And likewise the oft-repeated message has come back from the North that peace and good will
reigned, and that the wounds of civil dissension were but as sacred memories. Good fellowship
was wafted on the wings of commerce and development from those who had worn the blue to those
who had worn the gray. Nor were these messages delivered in vain, for they served to pave the
way for the complete and absolute elimination of the line of sectional differences by the only
process by which such a result was possible. The sentiment of the great majority of the people
of the South was rightly spoken in the message of the immortal Hill, and in the burning eloquence
of Henry Grady--both Georgians--the record of whose blessed work for the restoration of peace
between the sections becomes a national heritage, and whose names are stamped in enduring impress
upon the affection of the people of the Republic.

And yet there were still those among us who believed your course was polite, but insincere,
and those among you who assumed that our professed attitude was sentimental and unreal. Bitterness
had departed, and sectional hate was no more, but there were those who feared, even if they
did not believe, that between the great sections of our greater government there was not the
perfect faith and trust and love that both professed; that there was want of the faith that
made the American Revolution a successful possibility; that there was want of the trust that
crystallized our States into the original Union; that there was lack of the love that bound
in unassailable strength the united sisterhood of States that withstood the shock of Civil
War. It is true this doubt existed to a greater degree abroad than at home. But to-day the
mist of uncertainty has been swept away by the sunlight of events, and there, where doubt obscured
before stands in bold relief, commanding the admiration of the whole world, the most glorious
type of united strength and sentiment and loyalty known to the history of nations.

Out of the chaos of that civil war had risen a new nation, mighty in the vastness of its limitless
resources, the realities within its reach surpassing the dreams of fiction, and eclipsing the
fancy of fable--a new nation, yet rosy in the flesh, with the bloom of youth upon its cheeks
and the gleam of morning in its eyes. No one questioned that commercial and geographic union
had been effected. So had Rome re-united its faltering provinces, maintaining the limit of
its imperial jurisdiction by the power of commercial bonds and the majesty of the sword, until
in its very vastness it collapsed. The heart of its people did not beat in unison. Nations
may be made by the joining of hands, but the measure of their real strength and vitality, like
that of the human body, is in the heart. Show me the country whose people are not at heart
in sympathy with its institutions, and the fervor of whose patriotism is not bespoken in its
flag, and I will show you a ship of state which is sailing in shallow waters, toward unseen
eddies of uncertainty, if not to the open rocks of dismemberment.

Whence was the proof to come, to ourselves as well as to the world, that we were being moved
once again by a common impulse, and by the same heart that inspired and gave strength to the
hands that smote the British in the days of the Revolution, and again at New Orleans; that
made our ships the masters of the seas; that placed our flag on Chapultepec, and widened our
domain from ocean to ocean? How was the world to know that the burning fires of patriotism,
so essential to national glory and achievement, had not been quenched by the blood spilled
by the heroes of both sides of the most desperate struggle known in the history of civil wars?
How was the doubt that stood, all unwilling, between outstretched hands and sympathetic hearts,
to be, in fact, dispelled?

