For Miss Agnes was not often sad, though she was quiet in her ways and manners. She could be
gay, when it was the time to be gay. She was our governess,--that is, she taught Mary and Sophy
and me. Fanny was too old to be taught by her, and had an Italian master and a French teacher;
but she practised duets for the piano with Miss Agnes, and read with her,--and she made visits
with her, for Miss Agnes was a favorite everywhere. She had a kind word for everybody, and
listened kindly to all that was said to her. She talked to everybody at the sewing societies,
had something to say to every one, and when she came home she had always something to tell
that was entertaining. I often wished I could be one-quarter as amusing, but I never could
succeed in making my little experiences at all agreeable in the way Miss Agnes did. I have
tried it often since, but I always fail. Only the other day, I quite prided myself that I had
found out all about Mrs. Endicott's going to Europe, and came home delighted with my piece
of news. She was going with her husband; two of the children she was to leave behind, and take
the baby with her; they were to be gone six months; and I even knew the vessel they were going
in, and the day they were to sail. My intelligence was very quickly told;--Miss Agnes and many
others would have made a great deal more of it. I had no sooner come to the end than Fanny
said, "Who is going to take care of the children she leaves at home?" I had never thought to
ask! I was disappointed;--my news was quite imperfect; I might as well not have tried to bring
any news. But it was never so with Miss Agnes. I believe it was because she was really interested
in what concerned others, that they always told her willingly about themselves; and though
she never was inquisitive about others' affairs, yet she knew very well all that was going on.

So she was a most valuable member of our home-circle, and was welcome also among our friends.
And we thought her beautiful, too. She was very tall and slender, and her light-brown eyes
were of the color of her light-brown hair. We liked to see her come into the room,--her smile
and face made sunshine there; and she was more to us than a governess,--she was our dear friend.

But now she looked round at me, pale and sad. She suddenly saw that I looked astonished at
her, and she said, "I am not well, Jeanie, but we will not say anything about it. I am going
to my room; to-morrow I shall be better." She held her hand to her head, and I thought there
must be some heavy pain there, she still looked so sad and pale. She bade us all good night
and went away.

I did not tell the others what had happened,--partly because, as I have said, I was not in
the way of telling things, and partly because they were all talking and had not observed what
had been going on. But I found the paper Fanny had been reading, and wondered if there were
anything in what she had read that could have moved Miss Agnes so much. I had not been paying
much attention to the reading, but I knew upon which side of the paper to look. Fanny told
me it was time for me to go to bed, however, and I left my search before I could find anything
that seemed to concern Miss Agnes. I stopped at her door, and bade her good night again; and
she came out to me, and kissed me, and said,--I was a good child, and I must not trouble myself
about her.

The next day she seemed quiet, yet the same as ever. Though I said nothing to anybody else
about her fainting, I could not help telling my friend Jessie of it;--for I always told Jessie
everything. Fanny called us the two Jays, we chattered so when we were together. I knew she
would not tell anybody, so I could not help sharing my wonder with her,--what could have made
Miss Agnes faint so suddenly? She thought it must have been something in the newspaper,--perhaps
the death of some friend, or the marriage of some other. I was willing to look again, and this
time remembered three things that Fanny had just been reading when I had looked up at Miss
Agnes. One was about Mr. Paul Shattuck;--in descending from a haycart, he had fallen upon a
pitchfork, and had seriously wounded his thigh. Another was the marriage of Mr. Abraham Black
to Miss Susan Whitcomb, and Fanny had wondered if she were related to the Whitcombs of Hadley.
Then she had read a singular advertisement for a lost ring, a seal ring, with some Arabic letters
engraved upon it. I was of opinion that Miss Agnes was somehow connected with this signet-ring,--that
it had some influence over her fate. Jessie thought that Miss Agnes must have been formerly
engaged to Mr. Abraham Black, and that when she heard of his marriage----but I interrupted
her in this suggestion. In the first place, she could never have been engaged to a Mr. Abraham
Black; and then, nobody who could marry Miss Agnes would think of taking up with a Susan Whitcomb.
So Jessie fell back upon Paul Shattuck, and, to tell the truth, we had some warm discussions
on the subject.

Time passed on, and it was June. One lovely afternoon, we had quite a frolic with the hay,
the grass having been cut on the lawn in front of the house. Miss Agnes had been with us. We
had made nests in the hay, and had buried each other in deep mounds of it, and had all played
till we were quite tired. I went into the house in search of Miss Agnes, after she had gone
in, and found her sitting at one of the side windows. I came near, then wished to draw back
again, for I saw there were tears in her eyes. But when I found she had seen me, I tried to
speak as if I had seen nothing.

"How high the cat has to step, to walk over the grass!" I said, as I looked out of the window.

Miss Agnes put her arms about me. "You wonder, because you see me crying," she said, and looked
into my face.

"I never before saw anybody cry that was grown up," said I.

Miss Agnes smiled and said, "They tell children it is naughty to cry; but sometimes you can't
help crying, can you?" And her tears came dropping down.

"Oh, Miss Agnes," I said, "I wish I could help your crying! It is too bad!--it is too bad!"

"Yes, it is very bad," she said, as she held me in her arms, "it is very bad; but you do help
me. You shall be my little friend."

That was all. She did not tell me anything;--yet I felt as if she had said a great deal, and
I did not speak of this to Jessie.

A few days after, as I was passing the door of the parlor, I fancied I heard a little cry,
and it sounded to me as if I had heard the voice of Miss Agnes. I hurried in. A stranger had
just entered the room. But before me stood Miss Agnes, pale, erect, her lips quivering. She
held fast a chair, which she had drawn up in front of her, as one would place a shield between
one's self and some wild animal. How slender and defenceless she looked! I followed the terrified
glance of her eyes. There, in the middle of the room, stood a stranger,--not so terrible to
look upon, for he was young, and it seemed to me I had never seen so handsome a man. His black
hair and eyes quite pictured the hero of my romance. He was strongly built, and directly showed
his strength by seizing a large marble table that stood near the centre of the room, and wheeling
it between himself and Miss Agnes.

"If you are afraid of me," he said, "I will build up a barrier between us. Poor lamb, you would
like to be free from the clutches of the wolf!"

"I am afraid of you," said Miss Agnes, slowly,--and the color came into her cheeks. "You know
your power over me. I begged you, if you loved me, not to come to me."

"And all for that foolish ring! And the spirits of mischief betrayed its loss to you; it was
none of my work that published it in the papers. Can you let a fancy, an old story in a ring,
disturb your faith in me?"

"If the faith is disturbed," answered Miss Agnes, "what use in asking what has disturbed it?
Ernest, as you stand there, you cannot say you love me as you once professed to love me!"

"I can say that you are my guiding star,--that, if you fail me, I fall away into ruin."

"Can my little light keep you from ruin?" said Miss Agnes, shuddering. "Do not talk to me so!
Alas, you know how weak I am!"

"I know that you are an angel, and that I am too low a wretch to dare to speak to you. I came
here to tell you I was worthy of your deepest hatred. But, Agnes, when you speak to me of my
power over you, it tempts me to wield it a little longer, before I fall below your contempt."

He walked up and down the room, and presently saw me standing there.

"A listener!" he exclaimed; "you are afraid to be alone with me!"

I was about to leave the room, but he called me back.

"Stay, child!" he said; "if I can speak in her presence, it makes little difference that any
one else should hear me. Agnes, little Agnes, you would not like to be quite alone;--let the
child stay. Yet you know already that I am faithless to you. You know what I am going to tell
you. I love you, passionately, as I have always loved you. But there are other passions hold
me tighter. Money, and position,--I need them,--I cannot live without them. The first I have
lost already, and the claims I have to reputation will follow soon. I am mad. I am flinging
away happiness for the sake of its mask. Next week I marry riches,--a fortune. With the golden
lady, I go to Europe. I forsake home,--my better self. I leave you, Agnes;--and you may thank
God that I do leave you; I am not worthy of you."

She lifted herself from the chair on which she was leaning, and walked towards him. She laid
her hand upon his shoulder, and, white and pale, looked in his face.

"Do not go, Ernest!" she said. "You are mine. A promise cannot be broken;--you are promised
to me.--Stay,--do not go away!"

"My beautiful Agnes!" he said, "do you come to lay your pure self down in the scale against
my follies and all my passions? You stand before me too fair, too lovely for me. It is only
in your presence that I can appear noble enough for you. Even here, by your side, I see the
life I must lead with you, the struggle that you must share. In that life you would only see
me fail. I am weak; I can never be strong. Let me go down the current. Your heart will not
break;--I am not worth such a sacrifice."

"You are desperate," said she. "You say these cold, bitter words, and you must know that each
word cuts me. Oh, Ernest, you are false, indeed, if you come to taunt me with your faithlessness!"

"I needed to see you once more," he said, imperiously,--"I needed it. But you were right, Agnes,--the
ring was a true talisman. It seemed to me that its letters had changed color. I carried it
to an old Eastern scholar. He declared that the letters could never have formed the word 'Faith,'--that
the word was some black word that meant death. I left it with him, that he might study it.
When I saw him again, he declared he had lost it, and had advertised it. You see you can trust
your talisman sooner than you can trust me."

At this moment the outer door opened, and presently Fanny came in, with one of her friends.
Miss Agnes looked bewildered, but her visitor recovered his composure directly.

"Miss Fanny, I believe;--I have met you before. I have just been bidding good-bye to Miss Agnes,
before leaving for Europe. Can I be of service to you?"

Before we had time to think, he had said something to each one of us, and had left the house.
Fanny turned to speak to Miss Agnes, but she had fallen to the ground before we could reach her.

She was ill, very ill, for a long time. She had the brain fever,--so the doctor said. They
let me stay with her,--she liked to have me with her. I was glad to sit in the darkened room
all the long day. I never was a "handy" child, but I learned to be useful to her. I waited
on all her wants. I held her hand when she reached it out as if to meet some kindly touch.

In the quiet of her room, I had not heard the great piece of news,--of the terrible railroad
accident: that Mr. Carr, the Ernest who had been to see Miss Agnes, was among those who were
suddenly killed,--the very day he left our house! I had not heard it; so I was not able to
warn Fanny, when she came into the sick room of Miss Agnes, the first day she was able to talk,--I
could not warn Fanny that she must not speak of it. But she did. How could she be so thoughtless?
Miss Agnes, it is true, looked almost well, as she was lying on her couch, a soft color in
her cheeks. But then Fanny need not have told her anything so painful. Miss Agnes looked quite
wild, and turned to me as if to know whether it were true. I could not say anything to her,
but knelt by her,--and she seemed almost calm, as she asked to know all that was known, all
the terrible particulars that Fanny knew so well.

She was worse after that. We thought she would die, one night. But she did not die. Either
she was too weak or too strong to die of a broken heart. Perhaps she was not strong enough
to love so earnestly such a one as Mr. Carr, or else she had such strength as could bear the
trial that was given her to bear. She lived, but life seemed very feeble in her for a long time.

One day she began to talk with me.

"You would like to know, Jeanie, the story of that ring," she said.

I told her I was afraid to have her talk about it, but she went on:--

"It is an old heirloom, and all our family history is full of stories of this ring. There are
so many tales connected with it, that every one of us has looked upon it with a sort of superstition,
and cherished it as a talisman connected with our lives. It was always a test of constancy,
and the stories of those occasions when it has detected falsehood have always been remembered.
I suppose there are many when it has been quietly worn, undisturbed, that have been forgotten.
It has told many a sad tale in my own family. It came back, broken, to my brother Arthur, and
he died of a broken heart. My sister Eveline gave it to her young cousin, to whom she engaged
herself. But afterwards, when she went to live with a gay and heartless aunt of mine, she broke
her promise to him for the sake of a richer match. The day that she was married, our cousin
far away saw the black letters turn red upon the signet-ring."

"Oh, Miss Agnes!" I exclaimed.

"And why should not letters change?" she asked, abruptly; and I saw her eyes look out dreamily,
as if at something I did not see. "The letter clothes the spirit; and the spirit gives life
to the form. A face grows lovely or unlovely with the spirit that lies behind it. I cannot
say if there be a spirit in such things. Yet what we have worn we give a value to. It has an
expression in our eyes. Do we give it all that expression, or has it some life of its own?"

She interrupted herself, and went on:--

"I had known that Ernest was not true to me. I had known it by the words he wrote to me. They
did not have the ring of pure silver; there was a clang to them. When Fanny read aloud the
loss of that ring, it spoke to a suspicion that was lying in the depth of my heart, and roused
it into life. My little Jeanie, I was very sad then.

"You do not know how deeply I loved Ernest Carr. You do not know how I might have loved your
brother George,--yes, the noble, upright George. He loved me, and treated me most tenderly;
he found this home for me. I did not banish him from it,--he would have stayed all these years
in Calcutta, if it had not been for me,--so he said. You cannot understand how it was that
Ernest Carr, whom I had known before, should have impressed me more. You do not know, yet,
that we cannot command our love,--that it does not always follow where our admiration leads.
I loved Ernest for his very faults. The fascinations that made the world, its prizes, its money,
its fame, so attractive to him, won me as I saw them in him. It is terrible to think of my
last meeting with him; but his fate seems to me not so awful as the fate towards which he was
hurrying,--the life which could never have satisfied him."

She left off speaking, and dreamed on, her eyes and thoughts far away. And I, too, dreamed.
I fancied my brother George coming home, and that he would meet with that ring somehow. I knew
it must come back to her. And it did; and he came with it.

TWO YEARS AFTER.

  Oh, I forgot that, long ago!
    It was very fine at the time, no doubt,--
  Remembering is so hard, you know;--
    Well, you will one day find it out.
  I love the life of the happy flowers,
    But I hate the brown and crumbling leaves;
  You cannot with spices embalm the hours,
    Nor gather the sunshine into sheaves.

  We are older now, and wiser, too.
    Only two summers ago, you say,
  Two autumns, two winters, two springs, since you----
    Will you hold for a moment my bouquet?
  Yes,--take that sprig of mignonette;
    It will wither with you as it would with me:
  Freshness and sweetness a half-hour yet,
    Then a toss of the hand, and one is free.

  Why will you talk of such silly things?--
    What a pretty bride! Do you like her hair?
  See Madam there, with her twenty rings.
    Ogling the youth with the foreign air!--
  The moon was bright and the winds were low,
    The lilies bent listening to what we said?
  I did not make your lilies grow;
    Will they bloom for me now they are dead?

  You hate the rooms and the heartless hum,
    The thick perfumes and the studied smile?
  'Tis the air I love to breathe,--yet come,
    I will watch the stars with you awhile;
  But you won't talk nonsense, you promise me?
    Tear from the book the page we read;
  We are friends,--dear friends. You must come and see
    My new home, and soon.--What was it you said?

  Heartsick, and weary, and sad, and strange,--
    Ashes and dust where swept the fire?
  I am sorry for you, but I cannot change.--
    Did you see that star fall from the Lyre?
  A moment's gleam, and a deeper night
    Closing around its wandering way:
  But then there are other orbs as bright;
    Let your incense burn to them, I pray.

  Oh, conjure your mighty manhood up!
    Let it blaze its best in your flashing eyes!
  Can it stare my womanhood down, or hope
    To scorch my pride till it droops and dies?--
  There, do not be angry;--take my hand;
    Forgive me;--I meant not anything:
  I am foolish, and cannot understand
    Why you throw life out for one dumb string.

  Sweeter its music than all the rest?
    It may be so, though I cannot tell;
  But take the good when you lose the best,
    And school yourself till it seems as well.
  Love may pass by, but here is fame,
    And wealth, and power;--when these are gone,
  God is left,--and the altar-flame
    May, brightening ever, burn on and on.

  And yet to my heart at times there come
    Tidings of lands I shall never see,
  Sweet odors, and wooing winds, and hum
    Of bees in the fields that are far from me,--
  Far fields, and skies that are always fair;
    And I dream the old dreams of heaven, and you.--
  But here comes the youth of the foreign air.
    I will dance and forget,--and you must, too.

A BUNDLE OF OLD LETTERS.

To struggle painfully for years, spending all of life's energies for others, and then to be
forgotten by those for whom all was hazarded and consumed, is a lot demanding the most unselfish
aims. Yet this befell many a suffering patriot in our Revolutionary struggle. The names of
those who were the leaders in battle and in council, men whose position in the field or whose
words in Congress gave them a country's immortality, have remained bright in our memory. But
others there were who cheerfully surrendered eminence in their private walks and happiness
in social life to endure the hardships of a protracted contest till life was spent, and who,
from the very nature of the services they rendered, have remained in obscurity. They would
not themselves repine at this; for they gave their strength, not for their country's applause,
but their country's good. They sought, not our remembrance, but our freedom.

In many an old garret, or treasured up in some old man's safest nook, are worn-out, faded letters,
telling of struggles and hopes in that long contest, that would make their writers' names bright
on the nation's record, were not the number of those who rendered that our golden age so countless.
Pious is the task of tracing the services of some revered ancestor, who gave whatever he had
to give, when his country called, but whose name is not now remembered. Those days are fast
becoming to our younger race almost mythical, so that every living word from the actors in
them is of use in vivifying scenes that else would seem dim fable.

From a somewhat bulky bundle of yellow, tattered letters, long cherished with fond and filial
care, a few are selected to interest the readers of the "Atlantic," who, it is supposed, will
first be glad to know a little about their writer.

Dr. Isaac Foster was born in Charlestown, Massachusetts, on the 28th of August, 1740. His father,
in early life a sea-captain, making frequent voyages between Boston and Europe, was for many
years a prominent citizen of Charlestown, participating largely in the measures that preceded
and led to the Revolution. At the age of eighteen, Dr. Foster graduated at Harvard, in the
class of 1758. He then studied medicine under Dr. Lloyd of Boston, and afterwards completed
his studies in England. He married, as his first wife, Martha, daughter of Thaddeus Mason of
Cambridge, and at her death, some years later, Mary, daughter of Richard Russell of Charlestown.
In his profession he achieved a considerable reputation, acquired a large practice, and numbered
among his pupils Doctors Bartlett, Welch, and Eustis.

But while he was working his way to position and influence, more exciting themes began to attract
his attention. With the earliest signs of coming conflict he took a determined stand on the
Colonial side. In the town-meetings of the day he seems to have been prominent, and his name
appears on most of the important committees appointed by the town in reference to public affairs.
Thus, when, as early as November, 1772, the Committee of Correspondence in Boston called upon
the other towns "to stand firm as one man," his name is found upon a committee appointed to
answer this letter and prepare instructions to the representative of the town in the General
Court.[A]

[Footnote A: FROTHINGHAM'S History of Charlestown, p. 286.]

He was also one of a committee appointed to consult with the committees of other towns concerning
the expected importation of a quantity of tea. This was November 24th. On the 22d of December
of the same year, a petition numerously signed was presented to the selectmen, asking that
a meeting might be called to take some effectual measures to prevent the consumption of tea.
Among the signatures is Dr. Foster's.[B]

[Footnote B: FROTHINGHAM'S History of Charlestown, p. 293.]

He was elected a delegate to the Convention in the County of Middlesex, in August, 1774, and
a member of the first Provincial Congress of Massachusetts, in October of the same year. Early
in 1775, he was appointed a surgeon, and was, for some months, at the head of the military
medical department, while General Ward commanded at Cambridge. The day after the battle of
Concord, at the urgent request of General Ward and Dr. Warren, he gave up his private practice,
then very large, to attend the wounded. On the 18th of June, he was appointed by the Committee
of Safety to attend the men wounded on the previous day at the battle of Bunker's Hill. He
was soon after appointed Surgeon of the State Hospital, and by General Washington, on the discovery
of the treachery of Dr. Church, in October, Director-General, pro tem., of the American Hospital
Department. Congress soon nominated to this post Dr. John Morgan of Philadelphia, Dr. Foster
remaining as the oldest surgeon in the hospital.

It seemed necessary, before selecting some of Dr. Foster's letters, to give this account of
his earlier life, to show that he was no soldier of fortune or eleventh-hour laborer, but that
his sympathies were enlisted and his aid given among the earliest of the friends of a then
doubtful cause,--and that he ventured influence, wealth, and professional fame, and abandoned
home and ease, at what seemed to him the call of his country.

The first extracts shall be from a letter to his wife, dated

"New York, Sunday, P.M.,

"June 2, 1776.

"MY DEAR POLLY,

"I received your kind letter of the 27th last, and thank you for your ready acceptance of my
invitation to come to me. Indeed, my dear, you could not have given a stronger proof of your
affection for me. Heaven only knows what dangers and difficulties you may be exposed to in
this undertaking; but it shall be my constant endeavor to keep you out of the way of danger,
and procure the best accommodation for you this country affords. If mother will add to her
former kindness by taking the charge of our children, it will greatly ease my mind; and as
our enemies have, by their wanton barbarity, from being inhabitants of Charlestown, made us
citizens of the United Colonies at large, I believe you will be as safe and happy with or near
me as anywhere....

"The night before last, the city was much alarmed. A signal had been made from one of the islands
of the arrival of a ship to join the small fleet at the Hook. Some one raised this to a large
number of transports with the expected German forces; some of the Tories here had the impudence
to affirm they had seen eleven sail. When I came from the hospital to my lodging, in the evening,
I found the neighborhood in confusion, the women talking of and preparing for flight. I thought
it my duty to wait on General Putnam, who at present commands here; in my way, I met Major
Webb, who acquainted me with the truth of the matter. Upon this occasion, I could not help
thinking I should go to my post with much more alacrity, if I might have the pleasure of seeing
you again first....

"Your affectionate husband,

"ISAAC FOSTER."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next is a short extract from a letter to his father, bearing date June 6th, 1776. Speaking
of his wife, he says:--

"I wish she may have a pleasant journey, and arrive here in season to see the city before our
enemies attack us. We are in daily expectation of them, and tolerably prepared to receive them.
I am under no apprehension of their being able to get footing here; but if they behave with
spirit, the city must suffer in the contest."

The next is also to his father.

"New York, July 7th, 1776.

"HONORED SIR,

"It is with the greatest pleasure I embrace this opportunity of congratulating you on the most
important event that has happened since the commencement of hostilities. This Declaration is
to be published at Philadelphia to-morrow, with all the pomp and solemnity proper on such an
occasion; and before the week is out, we hope to have the pleasure of proclaiming it to the
British fleet, now riding at anchor in full view between this city and Staten Island, by a
feu de joie from our musketry, and a general discharge of the cannon on our works. This step,
whatever some lukewarm would-be-thought friends or concealed enemies may think, the cruel oppression,
the wanton, insatiable revenge of the British Administration, the venality of its Parliament
and Electors, and the unaccountable inattention of the people of Great Britain in general to
their true interest and the importance of the contest with their late Colonies, had rendered
absolutely necessary for our own preservation,--and has given great spirits to the army, as,
by shutting the door against any reconciliation in the least degree connected with dependence
on Great Britain, they know for what they are fighting, and are freed from the apprehension
of being duped by Commissioners, after having risked their lives in the service of their country,
and to secure the enjoyment of liberty to their posterity."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next letters of public import are addressed to his father, and relate mainly to the expected
attack upon New York.

"New York, July 22nd, 1776.

"HONORED SIR,

"I received your kind favor of the 15th inst. I am glad to hear our friends are all well. I
congratulate you on the spirited behavior and glorious success of our army under General Lee.
It is generally thought to have been a decisive action, at least for this summer, as the two
fifty-gun ships are never like to get to sea again. I hope by the next post you will hear some
of our exploits, if the enemy have courage enough to attack us. It is my week at the hospital;
and if anything happens, I hope to give you the particulars. Polly has got much better; she
joins me in duty to mother and love to the children. There has been another flag from the fleet;
the Adjutant-General of the British troops has been on shore to wait on his Excellency. He
endeavored, but in vain, to persuade him to accept the letter which had been twice refused.
In conversation he related its contents, much the same as those to the late Governor. He was
answered, (as I am told from good authority,) that it could not be expected people who were
sensible of having committed no offence should ask pardon,--that, as the American States owed
no allegiance, so they were not accountable, to any earthly prince. He tarried about half an
hour, and seemed pleased with the politeness of his reception."

"July 23d, P.M.

"I write to congratulate you on advice received this day from Virginia, an agreeable supplement
to the paper I sent yesterday. On the 9th instant, Lord Dunmore with his slavish mercenaries
and stolen negroes were driven from their post on Gwin Island in Virginia, and the piratical
fleet from their station near it, with the loss of one ship, two tenders or armed vessels burnt
by themselves, three armed vessels taken by our people, and Lord Dunmore wounded; on our side
not a man lost. I would be more particular, but, as I had only time to read the Philadelphia
paper of yesterday which contains the account, and Mr. Mayo is just setting out, it is not
in my power."

"New York, Aug. 12, 1776

"Polly is still here with me, and we are both very well, but disappointed in not hearing oftener
from our friends at Boston. For news in general I must refer to the inclosed paper. I was in
company the evening they came to this city with the two gentlemen who came from England in
the packet. They say the British force on Staten Island is from twelve to fifteen thousand,
of which about one thousand are Hessians; that Lord and General Howe speak very respectfully
of our worthy commander-in-chief, at their tables and in conversation giving him the title
of General; that many of the officers affect to hold our army in contempt, calling it no more
than a mob; that they envy us our markets, and depend much on having their winter-quarters
in this city, out of which they are confident of driving us, and pretend only to dread our
destroying of it; that the officers' baggage was embarked, a number of flat-bottom boats prepared,
and every disposition made for an attack, which we may hourly expect. On our side, we have
not been wanting; our army has for several nights lain on their arms, occasioned by several
ships of war and upwards of thirty transports going out at the Narrows and anchoring at that
part of Long Island best calculated for their making a descent, and where they received, by
means of flat-bottom boats, a large detachment from the army on Staten Island. But this fleet
went to sea yesterday, where bound we know not; some think, to go round the east end of Long
Island, come down the Sound, and land on our backs, in order to cut off any retreat, and oblige
us to surrender ourselves and the city into their hands: but if they are so infatuated as to
venture themselves into a broken, woody country, between us and the New England governments,
I trust they will have cause to repent their rashness. Generals Heath, Spencer, Greene, and
Sullivan are promoted by the Honorable Congress to the rank of Major-Generals; and the Colonels
Reed, Nixon, Parsons, Clinton, Sinclair, and McDougall to be Brigadier-Generals. We have removed
all our superfluous clothing, and whatever is not necessary for present use, to Rye, whither
General Putnam's lady has retired. Miss Putnam is yet in town, and the chaise is in readiness
for her and Polly to remove at a minute's warning."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following copy of an "Order from Head-Quarters" was found among the papers, directed apparently
to his father; and as Washington's Orderly Books have never been published, with the exception
of a few orders chiefly relating to court-martials, it has been thought that it would be interesting.
Though dated on successive days, it seems to have been issued as one order. A note by Dr. Foster,
at the close, says,--"This copy was made in a hurry by one of the mates. Some sentences are
omitted. Imperfect as it is, I thought it would be agreeable. The principal omission is the
order for having three days' provisions ready-dressed, and that all who do not appear at their
posts upon the signal are to be deemed cowards, and prosecuted as such."

Head-Quarters, August 14, 1776. The colonels and commanding officers of regiments are to see
their supernumerary officers so posted as to keep their men to their duty; and it may not be
amiss for the troops to know, that, if any infamous rascal shall attempt to skulk, hide himself,
or retreat from the enemy without the orders of his commanding officers, he will instantly
be shot down as an example of cowardice. On the other hand, the General solemnly promises that
he will reward those who shall distinguish themselves by brave and noble actions; and he desires
every officer to be attentive to this particular, that such men may be afterwards suitably
noticed."

"Head-Quarters, August 15, 1776.

"The General also flatters himself that every man's mind and arms are now prepared for the
glorious contest upon which so much depends.

"The time is too precious, nor does the General think it necessary, to spend it in exhorting
his brave countrymen and fellow-soldiers to behave like men fighting for everything that can
be dear to free-men. We must resolve to conquer or die. With this resolution, victory and success
certainly will attend us. There will then be a glorious issue to this campaign, and the General
will reward his brave soldiers with every indulgence in his power."

"New York, August 16, 1776.

"HONORED SIR,

"It is now past ten o'clock, and Mr. Adams, who favors me by carrying this, sets out by five
o'clock to-morrow morning, so that I have only time to acknowledge the favors received by Dr.
Welch. If I survive the grand attack hourly expected, or if it is delayed until then, I will
write again by next post. Polly has her things packed up; the chaise can be ready at a minute's
warning; if the wind favors our enemies, it is probable she will breakfast out of the way of
danger. To-morrow is watched for by our army in general with eager expectation of confirming
the independence of the American States. All the Ministerial force from every part of America
except Canada, with the mercenaries from Europe, being collected for this attempt, God only
knows the event. To His protection I commend myself, earnestly praying that in this glorious
contest I may not disgrace the place of my nativity, nor, after it is over, be ashamed to see
my wife, my children, and my parents again. To the care of Providence, and, under that, to
you, honored Sir, with our other friends, I commend all that is near and dear to me, and am,
with duty to mother, love to the children, &c., &c.,

"YOUR DUTIFUL SON."

"P.S. Our troops are in good spirits, and, relying on the justice of their cause and favor
of Heaven, assured of victory."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next four months were, of course, spent amid the hardships of camps and removals. The frequent
letters sent to his father and other friends are all of interest to those who claim descent
from him, but the general reader can be concerned in but a few of more public import, and,
in most cases, only in extracts from these.

"Bethlehem, State of Penn.,

"Dec. 24, 1776.

"HONORED SIR,

"I returned from General Washington's head-quarters last evening, and had the pleasure of finding
Polly well and as agreeably situated as I could expect. Were I to attempt writing all I wish
to communicate, a week's time and a quire of paper would hardly suffice. I fancy I shall be
no gainer by lending my furniture to the General Court;--General Washington would have paid
me for the use of it before I left Cambridge, but, for the credit of Massachusetts, I declined it."

"Fishkill, State of N. York,

"Jan. 20, 1777.

"HONORED SIR,

"After spending the winter hitherto in Pennsylvania and the Jerseys, with frequent removals,
some loss, much expense and fatigue, we are once more on the east side of Hudson's River. We
arrived at this place last Friday, in good health, after a journey of more than one hundred
miles, in severe weather, through the upper part of New Jersey, a new-settled, uncultivated
country. The sight of a boarded house or glass window was a great rarity; a cordial welcome
to any connected with the American army still greater. Although they are fully sensible of
the value of money, and we offered cash for all we wanted, yet I believe we were not a little
obliged to their fears for what civility we met with, except only from one family. But I must
defer a particular account until I have the happiness to see you.

"I have nothing of news to write but what you must hear sooner in another way. General Heath
and the militia are besieging Fort Independence; if they can carry that, they will attempt
New York. It is not improbable I shall join him in a few days."

       *       *       *       *       *

The office of Deputy Director-General of Hospitals was established by ordinance, April 7th,
1777; and four days later, Dr. Foster was chosen by Congress to this office, having charge
of the Eastern Department. His subsequent residence was mainly at Danbury, Connecticut.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Tryon's expedition against Danbury we have the following account, differing in some respects
from the common version:--

"Danbury, May 1, 1777.

"You have doubtless heard of the enemy's expedition to this place, and been anxious for us.
This is the first moment of leisure I have had, and, if not interrupted, I will endeavor to
give you a particular account.

"On Saturday morning, about three o'clock, an express from Fairfield brought advice, that a
large body, three or four thousand British troops, had landed from upwards of twenty transports,
under cover of some ships of war near that place, and that it was probable their design was
against the provision and other stores collected in this town; another express soon after sunrise
informed us of their being on the march. The militia were mustered, and a few Continental troops
that were here on their way to Peekskill prepared to receive them; but their number was so
inconsiderable, and that of the enemy so large, with a formidable train of artillery, I had
no hope of the place being saved.

"I had, upon the first alarm, ordered all the stores in my charge to be packed up, ready for
removal at a minute's warning. Upon the second express, I persuaded Polly, with what money
was in my hands, to quit the town: she was unwilling, but I insisted on it. We were so much
put to it for teams to remove the medicines and bedding, that I determined rather to lose my
own baggage than put it on any cart intended for that purpose; and had not a gentleman's team,
already loaded with his own goods, taken it up, I must have lost it. As the enemy entered the
room at one end, after our troops had retreated to the heights, I went out at the other, not
without some apprehension (as I was to cross the route of their flank-guard) of being intercepted
by the light horse.

"After having seen the medicines, all of them that were worth moving, safe at New Milford,
I returned to town the next morning, and went with our forces in pursuit of the enemy. About
noon the action began in their rear, and continued with some intermission until night; the
running fight was renewed next morning, and lasted until the enemy got under cover of their
ships. We have lost some brave officers and men. Their loss is unknown, as they buried some
of their dead, and carried off others; but, from the dead bodies they were forced to leave
on the field, it must have greatly exceeded ours. General Wooster was wounded early in the
action; he is in the same house with me, and I fear will not live till morning.

"Our loss in provisions, &c., is between two and three thousand barrels of pork, a quantity
of flour, some wheat, and some bedding."

       *       *       *       *       *

In this bundle are many letters from Mrs. Foster. They are interesting for their true-hearted
patriotism and domestic love; but there is room for only a brief extract from a letter referring
to this same expedition.

"Danbury, May 13, 1777.

"DEAR MADAM,

"I received yours and father's by Messrs. Russell and Gorham. Doctor had not the pleasure of
seeing either of the gentlemen, as he was gone to Fishkill to oversee the inoculation of the
troops, which was a very great disappointment.

"I expected last Monday to have been with you by this time, as I was driven from here by the
enemy (tho' very unexpected, as this place was thought to be very secure). I removed to New
Milford, from whence I intended to have set out for Boston. On Sunday, the Doctor took his
leave, and left me to take care of the wounded. Monday morning, everything was got ready for
me to set out at twelve o'clock, when I received a note from the Doctor, desiring I would tarry
a little longer. I have now returned to my old lodgings at Danbury, where the Doctor thinks
of building a hospital. He joins me in duty and love.

"Your affectionate daughter,

"MARY FOSTER."

       *       *       *       *       *

Much of Dr. Foster's time was necessarily spent in journeyings to the several divisions of
the army and various military stations. On such journeys his letters to his wife were very
frequent. We extract a part of one.

"Palmer, Thursday even'g,

"July 31, 1777.

"DEAR POLLY,

"I arrived here, which is eighty-three miles from Boston, about sunset this evening, in good
health. The enemy's fleet has sailed from New York, and was seen standing to eastward. Some
suppose them bound for Boston; but I cannot think so, as General Washington, who, I presume,
has the best intelligence, is moving towards Philadelphia. Before you receive this, it will
be made certain with you. Should they attack Boston, I would have you get as many of our effects
as possible removed out of their way, and inform me by the post where you remove to. Should
such an event take place, it will become my duty, after visiting Danbury, to return to the
scene of action. To your own prudence and the care of Heaven I leave all, and am, with love
to the children, ever yours."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the lapse of years, many letters have, without doubt, been lost. Thus, but two remain bearing
date of 1778. Neither of these contains matter of public import. In May, he speaks of intending
a journey to Yorktown, and says, "if anything extraordinary happens between the two armies,"
he shall be on the spot. In a letter addressed to his father, dated November 27, 1778, he says,--

       *       *       *       *       *

"Public business calls me to Philadelphia; but the state of your health, and my own, which
is much impaired, determine me to visit Boston first. I expect a visit from the Marquis La
Fayette next week, on his way to Boston, and shall set out with him."

       *       *       *       *       *

May 11th, 1779, he writes,--

"To-morrow all the gentlemen of the department at this post [Danbury] dine with me, and the
next morning I begin my journey to Head-Quarters. I mean to take Newark in my way.

"General Silliman was taken prisoner last week, and carried to Long Island."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the two following letters to his wife he speaks of this visit.

"Philadelphia, June 5, 1779.

"My business is almost completed, and to my mind. I now wait for nothing but the money which
the Medical Committee recommended I should be furnished with; I expect to receive it the beginning
of next week, when I shall set out immediately. Mr. Samuel Adams travels with me; indeed, the
time seems tedious until get away. Give my duty to our parents, love to the children, &c.,
and believe me to be, with the sincerest affection, my dearest Polly,

"Ever yours."

       *       *       *       *       *

Philadelphia, June 9, 1779.

"MY DEAR POLLY,

"Another post has arrived, and no letter from Boston. It is now a month, and near five weeks,
since I have heard from you. If I thought you had neglected writing, it would make me very
unhappy; but, from your usual goodness, I cannot think that is the case, but am confident your
letters must have miscarried. I have wanted nothing but hearing from you to make my time here
perfectly agreeable. I have been received with the greatest politeness and friendship, and
every attention paid to me, by men I most esteem, I could wish for; at the same time my business
has gone perfectly to my mind. I have leave to reside in Boston for the future, and shall be
under no necessity of attending the camp, nor be obliged to visit Philadelphia oftener than
once a year. I am to have a mode of settling my accounts pointed out to me, that will be easy,
simple, and much to my mind. I now wait for nothing but money to begin my journey. The Treasury
Board this morning passed a resolve recommending it to Congress to furnish me with $150,000.
I expect to receive the warrant to-morrow, and as soon as I get the money shall set out, which
I expect will be about next Monday, until which time I am engaged for almost every day. I dine
this day with Mr. Adams; tomorrow with Dr. Shippen, in company with the New England delegation;
Thursday and Friday I expect to spend with Dr. Craigie in visiting Red Bank, Mud Island, and
other principal scenes of action while the enemy were here. We have an account that the enemy
are in motion up the North River; but of them you will hear sooner than I can inform you. General
Lincoln has actually defeated the enemy in Carolina, and is like to take them all prisoners.
The express is on the road, and expected in town to-morrow, when there will be great rejoicing."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letter describes one of Dr. Foster's frequent journeys on business of his department.

"Windsor, October 7, 1779.

"MY DEAR POLLY,

"As I am waiting for Mr. De Lamater to come up, I will endeavor to give you an account of our
journey. The evening we left Boston Dr. Warren rode with us as far as Jamaica Plains; after
he left us we proceeded to Dedham, where we arrived about dark, and were exceedingly well entertained:
we had a brace of partridges for supper. Colonel Trumbull spent the evening with us. The next
morning we proceeded nine miles to Heading's to breakfast, and from thence seven miles to Mann's,
where we fed our horses, and dined at Daggett's, nine miles further; that afternoon we arrived
at Providence, and put up at our old friend Olney's. The next day we dined with Adams and Townshend
at their quarters; the General honored us with his company; the same evening supped with the
General. Sunday, dined with the General, in company with some of the principal ladies of the
place; here I also saw your old acquaintance, General Stark; he drank tea at my quarters one
afternoon, and inquired after you. Having finished my business much to my mind, I continued
my journey on Monday morning; the General, Colonel Armstrong, and Dr. Brown were so polite
as to ride out four miles with us. After they left us, we proceeded to Angell's, twelve miles
from Providence, where we dined,--not on the fat of the land. After dinner we rode to Dorrence's,
an Irishman, but beyond all comparison the best house on the road; here we were exceedingly
well entertained, and, as it looked like a storm, intended staying there, but, it growing lighter
towards noon, we set out, but had not rode far before the rain came on; however, as we had
begun, we determined to go through with it, and rode a very uncomfortable ten miles to Canterbury,
where we dined, poorly enough, at one Backus's. Not liking our quarters, we proceeded, notwithstanding
the rain, to Windham, eight miles further, where we were well entertained at one Cary's. As
the storm looked likely to continue, and I was so near Windsor, I was determined, if I must
lie by for it, to lie by in a place where I could do some business. I accordingly proceeded
fifteen miles in the forenoon to Andover, where I dined at one White's, and fifteen miles in
the afternoon to Bissell's at East Windsor, where I lodged. I was thoroughly soaked, but do
not find that I have got any cold. Indeed, I find my health considerably better than when I
left Boston. This morning it has cleared off very pleasant, and I crossed from East Windsor
to this place. I have just returned from visiting Mr. Hooker's and Dr. Johonnot's stores. I
find everything in such excellent order as to do credit to the department. Mr. De Lamater is
not yet come up; as soon as he arrives we shall visit Springfield. I shall not close this letter
until I meet the post; if anything worth notice occurs, I shall mention it. Adieu, my love.

"October 8.--Mr. De Lamater arrived last night. Altho' it is very raw and uncomfortable, I
shall proceed immediately after dinner to Springfield. We have certain advice that the Count
D'Estaing has been at Georgia, and taken all the British ships there; it is reported, and believed
by many, that he is arrived off Long Island. You see, my dear Polly, I have set you the example
of a very long letter. I hope, as you have leisure enough, you will follow it, as nothing can
give me greater pleasure."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Fishkill, October 21, 1779.

"MY DEAR POLLY,

"I returned from Head-Quarters this forenoon. We went down yesterday morning, and dined with
General Heath, who was so good as to lend us his barge to carry us to Head-Quarters. His Excellency
received us as I could wish. He invited us to dine with him this day. Upon my excusing myself,
as being in haste to finish my journey, he accepted the excuse, and invited us to breakfast
with him, which we did. We returned last night to Robinson's house, and slept with our friend
Eustis. General Heath favored us again with his barge to carry us to Head-Quarters, and after
breakfast his Excellency ordered his own to convey us to our horses, which we had ordered four
or five miles up the river. One principal reason of my declining the General's invitation to
dinner was my impatience to return to Fishkill, that I might receive a letter from you. Judge,
then, what was my disappointment to find the post arrived and no letter. I shall cross the
North River to-morrow morning to proceed on my journey to Philadelphia. If the nature of the
service will allow it, General Heath and his suit propose returning with me to spend the winter
in Boston. Eustis desires you would look out some suitable object of his attentions, while
in Boston. He pretends it is only with a view to keep him alert and properly attentive to the
ladies in general; but I suspect he designs to become the domestic man."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Morristown, Oct. 26th, 1779.

"MY DEAR POLLY,

"I wrote you from Fishkill the day before I left it, and shall put this into the office here
for the post to take as he comes along. On Friday, towards evening, we left Fishkill. It was
dark and squally when we got to the landing, and we had nine horses in the boat, which made
us a little uneasy, as a few days before a boat had been overset and some people drowned; however,
we got safe over, and lay that night at Colonel Hawsbrook's, where you spent two or three days
on your return from Bethlehem. The next morning we breakfasted with Dr. Craik at Murderer's
Creek, and then proceeded through the Clove, a most disagreeable place, and horrid road. In
the evening we got to Ringwood. Upon our arrival there, we were informed there was no public
house in the place, and it was after dark. Colonel Biddle had favored me with an order on all
his magazines to supply me with forage; he has one in this place. I waited on his deputy and
presented the order; he went out of the room, and in a few minutes returned with a Mr. Erskine,
who is surveyor-general of the roads; he gave me a polite invitation to spend the night at
his house, where we were entertained in the most genteel, hospitable, and friendly manner.
A shower of rain yesterday morning prevented our proceeding, but, as it cleared up about noon,
we came on thirty-four miles to this place. I expect to reach Philadelphia the day after tomorrow.
I have been from home almost a month, and have received but one letter, but hope to find several
waiting for me at Philadelphia, as I cannot think you would miss a post. The enemy last Thursday
left their posts at Stony Point and Verplanck's Point, and retired to New York."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Bristol, October 27, 1779.

"MY DEAR POLLY,

"I wrote you from Morristown, which it is probable you will receive by this post. Lest that
should miscarry, this will inform you that I am at length arrived within twenty miles of Philadelphia,
where I expect to dine this day. A few days will determine how long I am like to be detained
there;--I think it upon every account best to finish all my business. The gentlemen have bound
themselves to each other by an engagement upon honor, if nothing is done for our department
by New Year's day, all to resign, and have informed Congress of it: I have joined in the engagement.
If I find I am like to be detained here any time, it is not improbable I may put my accounts
in the hands of the Commissioners, and, if I can get fresh horses, proceed with Mr. Lee on
a visit to Mrs. Washington at Mount Pleasant in Virginia. Mr. Lee desires his compliments.
Adieu, my love. I am, with the sincerest affection,

"Ever yours."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Danbury, December 8, 1779.

"MY DEAR POLLY,

"I am once more returned to dear Danbury, on my way to Boston. I arrived here about an hour
since, and never had a more fatiguing, disagreeable journey in my life than from Philadelphia
here. I expected to have been in Boston by this time; but two severe storms, and one day waiting
for his Excellency at Morristown, have made me twelve days performing a journey which according
to my usual way of travelling I should have performed in four. I have, however, no reason to
repent my undertaking this journey.

"If sickness or very bad weather does not prevent, I shall certainly be home by Christmas,
and wish to have all our friends together;--I promise myself a great deal of happiness, and
hope I shall not be disappointed. Adieu, my love."

       *       *       *       *       *

September 30th, 1780, the Hospital Department was newly organized, and the office of Deputy
Director-General was abolished, and of course the incumbents of that office were no longer
in the hospital service.

Dr. Foster's health was irreparably injured by the fatigues and exposures he had undergone,
and he lingered but a few months longer, dying on the 27th of February, 1781, in his forty-second
year.

One sentence in his will deserves record, as in harmony with the disinterestedness of his life.
After desiring that all debts due him should be collected as soon as possible after his decease,
he adds this clause: "But I would not have any industrious and really poor persons distressed
for this purpose."

The writer of these letters needs no additional eulogy. He sacrificed all the prospects of
his life to give his services in our struggle for freedom. He, too, was but one of that innumerable
multitude who, in more exalted or in humbler stations, freely gave their exertions, their wealth,
their comfort, and their lives for freedom and right. It is possible so to linger by the grave
of the past as to forget the living present; but the grateful memory of those who have in their
times contended for truth with self-denial should be ever animating to those now laboring in
the holy warfare, to which, in every age, whether the outward signs be of peace or strife,
God calls the noble of mankind.

  "Therefore bring violets! Yet, if we,
      self-balked,
    Stand still a-strewing violets all the while,
  These had as well not moved, ourselves not
      talked
    Of these."

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE PINES.

If I were a crow, or, at least, had the faculty of flying with that swift directness which
is proverbially attributed to the corvine tribe, and were to wing a southwesterly course from
the truck of the flag-staff which rises from the Battery at New York, I should find myself,
within a very short time, about fifty miles from the turbulent city, and hovering over a region
of country as little like the civilized emporium just quitted as it is well possible to conceive.
Not being a crow, however, nor fitted up with an apparatus for flying,--destitute even of a
balloon,--I am compelled to adopt the means of locomotion which the bounty of God or the ingenuity
of man affords me, and to spend a somewhat longer time in transit to my destination.

Over the New Jersey Railroad, then, I rattled, one fine, sunshiny autumn morning, in the year
that has recently taken leave of us, as far as Bordentown, a distance of some fifty-seven miles,
on my way to a locality the very existence of which is scarcely dreamed of by thousands in
the metropolis, who can tell you how many square miles of malaria there are in the Roman Campagna,
and who have got the topography of Caffre Land at their fingers' ends. It is a region aboriginal
in savagery, grand in the aspects of untrammelled Nature; where forests extend in uninterrupted
lines over scores of miles; where we may wander a good day's journey without meeting half-a-dozen
human faces; where stately deer will bound across our path, and bears dispute our passage through
the cedar-brakes; where, in a word, we may enjoy the undiluted essence, the perfect wildness,
of woodland life. Deep and far "under the shade of melancholy boughs" we shall be taken, if
together we visit the ancient Pines of New Jersey.

In order to do so, we must make at Bordentown the acquaintance of Mr. Cox, and take our seats
in his stage for a jolt, twelve miles long, to the village of New Egypt, on the frontier of
the Pines. Although the forest is accessible from many points, and may be entered by a number
of distinct approaches, I, the writer hereof, selected that viâ New Egypt as the most convenient
to a comer from New York, and as, perhaps, the least fatiguing to accomplish.

But, oh! the horrors of those New Jersey roads! Mud? 'Tis as if all the rains of heaven had
been concentrated upon all the marls and clays of earth, and all the sticky stratum plastered
down in a wiggling line of unascertainable length and breadth! Holes? As if a legion of sharpshooters
had been detailed for the defence of Sandy Hook, and had excavated for themselves innumerable
rifle-pits or caverns for the discomfiture of unhappy passengers! Up hill and down dale,--with
merciless ruts and savage ridges,--now, a slough, to all appearance destitute of bottom, and,
next, a treacherous stretch of sand, into which the wheels sink deeper and deeper at every
revolution, as if the vehicle were France, and the road disorder,--such is a faint adumbration
of the state of affairs in the benighted interior of our petulant little whiskey-drinking sister
State!

But all earthly things come to an end, and so, accordingly, did our three-hours' drive. The
stage pompously rolled into the huddled street of its terminus, and deposited me, in the neighborhood
of noon, on the stoop of the only tavern supported in the deadly-lively place. No long sojourn,
however, was in store for me. Presently--ere I had grown tired of watching the couple of clodhoppers,
well-bespattered as to boots and undergarments with Jersey mud, who, leaning against a fence
in true agricultural laziness, deliberately eyed, or rather, gloated over the inoffensive traveller,
as though he were that "daily stranger," for whom, as is well known, every Jerseyman offers
up matutinal supplications--a buggy appeared in the distance, and I was shortly asked for.
It was the vehicle in which I was to seek my destination in the Pines; and my back was speedily
turned upon the queer little village with the curiously chosen name. My driver, an intelligent,
sharp-featured old man, soon informs me that he was born and has lived for fifty years in the
forest. A curious, old-world mortal,--our father's "serving-man," to the very life! The Pines
are to him what Banks and City Halls and Cooper Institutes and Astor Houses are to a poor cittadini;
every tree is individualized; and I doubt not he could find his way by night from one end to
the other of the forest.

We had driven no great distance, when my companion lifted his whip, and, pointing to a long,
dark, indistinct line which crossed the road in the distance, blocking the prospect ahead and
on either side, as far as the eye could reach, exclaimed: "Them's the Pines!" As we approached
the forest, a change, theatrical in its suddenness, took place in the scenery through which
our course was taken. The rich and smiling pasture-lands, interspersed with fields of luxuriant
corn, were left behind, the red clay of the road was exchanged for a gritty sand, and the road
itself dwindled to a mere pathway through a clearing. The locality looked like a plagiarism
from the Ohio backwoods. On both sides of our path spread the graceful undergrowth, waving
in an ocean of green, and hiding the stumps with which the plain was covered, while far away,
to right and left, the prospect was bounded by forest walls, and gloomy bulwarks and parapets
of pines arose in front, as if designed, in their perfect denseness, to exclude the world from
some bosky Garden of Paradise beyond. Not so, however; for our pathway squeezes itself between
two melancholy sentinel-pines, tracing its white scroll into the forest farther than the eye
can follow, and in a few moments we leave the clearing behind, and pass into the shadow of
the endless avenue, and bow beneath the trailing branches of the silent, stern, immovable warders
at the gate. We were fairly in the Pines; and a drive of somewhat more than three miles lay
before us still.

The immense forest region I had thus entered covers an extensive portion of Burlington County,
and nearly the whole of Ocean, beside parts of Monmouth, Camden, Atlantic, Gloucester, and
other counties. The prevailing soils of this great area--some sixty miles in length by ten
in breadth, and reaching from the river Delaware to the very shore of the Atlantic--are marls
and sands of different qualities, of which the most common is a fine, white, angular sand,
of the kind so much in request for building-purposes and the manufacture of glass. In such
an arid soil the coniferae alone could flourish, and accordingly we find that the wide-spreading
region is overgrown almost entirely with white and yellow pine, hemlock, and cedar. Hence its
distinctive appellation.

It was a most lovely afternoon, warm and serene as only an American autumn afternoon knows
how to be; and while we hurried past the mute, monotonous, yet ever-shifting array of pines
and cedars, the very rays of the sun seemed to be perfumed with the aroma of the fragrant twigs,
about which humming-birds now and then whirred and fluttered as we startled them, scarcely
more brilliant in color than the gorgeous maples which grew in one or two dry and open spots.
For three-quarters of an hour our drive continued, until at length a slight undulation broke
the level of the sand, and a fence, inclosing a patch of Indian corn, from which the forest
had been driven back, betokened for the first time the proximity of some habitation. In fact,
having reached the summit of the slope, I found myself in the centre of an irregular range
of dwellings, scattered here and there in picturesque disregard of order, and next moment my
hand was grasped by my friend B. I had reached my destination,--Hanover Iron-Works,--and was
soon walking up, past the white gateway, to the Big House.

Somewhat less than eighty years ago, Mr. Benjamin Jones, a merchant of Philadelphia, invested
a portion of his fortune in the purchase of one hundred thousand acres of land in the then
unbroken forest of the Pines. The site of the present hamlet of Hanover struck him as admirably
adapted for the establishment of a smelting-furnace, and he accordingly projected a settlement
on this spot. The Rancocus River forms here a broad embayment, the damming of which was easily
accomplished, and one of the best of water-privileges was thus obtained. On the north of this
bay or pond, moreover, there rises a sloping bluff, which was covered, at the period of its
purchase, with ancient trees, but upon which a large and commodious mansion was soon erected.
Here Mr. Jones planted himself, and quickly drew around him a settlement which rose in number
to some four hundred souls; and here he commenced the manufacture of iron. At frequent intervals
in the Pines were found surface-deposits of ore, the precipitate from waters holding iron in
solution, which frequently covered an area of many acres, and reached a depth of from two or
three inches to as many feet. The ore thus existing in surface-deposits was smelted in the
iron-works, and the metal thence obtained was at once molten and moulded in the adjoining foundry.
Here, in the midst of these spreading forests, many a ponderous casting, many a fiery rush
of tons of molten metal, has been seen. Here, five-and-forty years ago, the celebrated Decatur
superintended, during many weeks, the casting of twenty-four pounders, to be used in the famous
contest with the Algerine pirates whom he humbled; and the echoes of the forest were awakened
with strange thunders then. As the great guns were raised from the pits in which they had been
cast, and were declared ready for proof, Decatur ordered each one to be loaded with repeated
charges of powder and ball, and pointed into the woods. Then, for miles between the grazed
and quivering boles, crashed the missiles of destruction, startling bear and deer and squirrel
and raccoon, and leaving traces of their passage which are even still occasionally discovered.
The cannon-balls themselves are now and then found imbedded in the sand of the forest. In this
manner the guns were tried which were to thunder the challenge of America against the dens
of Mediterranean pirates.

Hanover, too, in its day of pride, furnished many a city with its iron tubes for water and
for gas, many a factory and workshop with its castings, many a farmer with his tools, but the
glow of the furnace is quenched forever now. The slowly gathering ferruginous deposits have
been exhausted, and three years have elapsed since the furnace-fires were lighted. The blackened
shell of the building stands in cold decrepitude, a melancholy vestige of usefulness outlived.
In consequence of the stoppage of the works, Hanover has lost seven-eighths of its population,
and only about fifty inhabitants remain in the white cottages grouped about the Big House,
who are employed in agricultural labors and occupations connected with the forest. Yet in this
solitary nook the elegances and the tastes of the most cultivated society are to be found.
The Big House, surrounded by its well-trimmed gardens sloping down to the broad Rancocus, with
its comfortable apartments, and the diversified prospect which it commands, offers a resting-place
which, although deep in the genuine forest, combines urban refinement with the quiet and seclusion
of country-life.

Bright and early on the morning after my arrival, Friend B. was at my door; and after a savory,
if hasty breakfast, we sounded boute-selle. Outside the gate a couple of forest-ponies were
waiting,--stout, lively, five-year-olds, equal, if not to a two-forty heat, yet to twenty miles
of steady trot without distress,--brown and sleek as you please, with the knowingest eyes,
and intelligence expressed in the impatient stamp of the fore-foot, and good-humor in the twitching
of the ear. Into the saddle and off, with the cheery breeze to bathe us in exhilaration, as
it went humming around us laden with aromatic odors and mysterious whisperings of the pine-trees
to the sea,--through the dew-diamonded grass of the little lawn at the top of the hill,--past
the great elm with its glistening foliage, and its carolling crew of just-awakened birds,--then
a canter down the sandy slope to the edge of the forest, and again the pines are around us.

Before us lay a four-mile ride over a devious track among trees which my companion knows by
heart. Paths diverge into the forest on either side, running north and south, east and west,
straight and crooked, narrow and broad; but B. follows unerringly the right, though undistinguished
trail. This knowledge of woodcraft,--how it appalls and wonder-strikes the unlearned metropolitan,
accustomed as he is to numbered houses and name-boarded streets! No omnibus-driver threading
the confusion of a great thoroughfare could shape his course with greater assurance and lack
of hesitation than does B. through these endless avenues of heavy-foliaged pines, broken only
now and then by some tangled, impenetrable brake of cedars, or by a charred and blackened clearing,
where the coaler has been at work. I gradually grew to believe that he could call every tree
by its name, as generals have been said to know every soldier in their armies.

At length we reached a clearing of one or two acres in extent, the site of Cranberry Lodge,
and the terminus of our ride. In the centre of the lone expanse two unusually tall pines were
left standing, at the base of which a curious structure nestled, which had been for several
weeks the occasional hermitage of my companion. It was built entirely with his own hands, of
cedar rails and white-pine planks, which he had cut and sawed from trees that his own hands
had felled. A queer little cabin, some nine feet in length by five or six in breadth, standing
all alone in the forest, with not a neighbor within a distance of at least four miles!

Dismounting, we fastened our horses to a couple of saplings, and I was introduced to the interior
of Cranberry Lodge, which was tenanted only by the "hired man," who, in the absence of Mr.
B., reigned supreme in the clearing. The dwelling I found no less primitive in internal than
in its external appearance. Three persons, moderately doubled up and squeezed, could find room
in the interior, which was furnished with a bench for the safe-keeping of sundry pots, pans,
and other culinary necessaries, and with a shelf on which some blankets were laid, constituting
my companion's bedstead and bed, when he slept in Cranberry Lodge. Beneath the "bunk" a small
hole scooped in the sand stood in lieu of a cellar, and contained a stock of provisions of
Mr. B.'s own cooking.

Such a backwoodish dwelling as Cranberry Lodge, existing in the year 1858, within seventy miles
of New York, requires some explanation. Its foundation is--pies! Cape Cod, the great emporium
of the cranberry-trade, has been running short for the last few years; in other words, its
supply is unequal to the demand. The heavy Britishers have awakened to the fact, since 1851,
that, of all condiments and delicacies, cranberry-sauce and cranberry-pie are best in their
way; and John Bull takes many a barrel clean out of our market now. It so happened that in
the Pines of New Jersey cranberries superior to those of Cape Cod have grown unheeded for centuries,--grew
red and purple and white and pink when Columbus was unthought of, as well as when Washington
passed through the Pines,--and for sixty or seventy years have furnished a certain class of
gypsies--of whom more anon--with merchandise which sold well in the neighboring villages and
cities. No one thought of cultivating cranberries; no one, but the gypsies aforesaid, of gathering
them for sale. But it came to pass that a certain farmer of Hanover was, like many another,
unsuccessful during several years. As a last resource, he purchased of the owner of the Big
House a cranberry-bog,--that is to say, one of the many marshy spots which are interspersed
in the forest,--for which he paid five dollars the acre. There were a little more than one
hundred acres in the bog. At a cost of some six hundred dollars Mr. F. fenced in his bog, and
spent three months in watching the cranberries as they ripened, to protect them from depredation.
To his intense astonishment, he found, in October, that the yield was between two and three
hundred bushels to the acre, and that his land and fencing were paid for, with a balance left
over for next year. In consequence of this success, a little mania for cranberry-farming seized
upon the denizens of the Pines, and bogs acquired a value they had never borne before. This
was in 1857. Early in 1858, one of these plots of land, with an adjoining piece of forest,
was rented by Mr. B., who, like a right-down Yankee, determined to cultivate it himself. So,
with the aid of one hired man, a clearing was made in his forest-patch, a hut built, four miles
from the nearest habitation, and the trees cut down were converted into rails, wherewith to
fence in the cranberry-land. At the time of my visit, the crop was just beginning to think
of getting ripe, and the great lazy vines, each one creeping for several feet along the ground,
were severally loaded with dozens of delicately-tinted berries, plump and fair as British beauties,
which silently drew to themselves and absorbed the rays of the sun, turning them to color and
succulent subacidulousness. A most glorious sight that same hundred-acre bog must have been
a couple of weeks later, when the berries had ripened, and a carpet of rosy redness blushed
upwards to the waning sun! Yet 1858 (the even year) was a bad season for cranberries,--the
yield was only sufficient to pay for the land and fencing, with a modicum over to begin 1859 with!

So cranberries grew to be institutions in the Pines, and all the bogs for miles around the
site of the first experiment were hired by sanguine farmers. But the cranberry-cultivator has
one enemy, which is neither bird, nor worm, nor blight, but biped,--a Rat, two-legged, erect,
or moderately so, talking, even, in audible and intelligible speech,--the Pine Rat, namely.
Few but New Jerseymen, and of them chiefly those who dwell about the forest, have heard of
this human species; it has not yet had its Agassiz nor its Wyman,--yet there it flourishes
and repeats itself!

My friend, Mr. B., considerately undertook to initiate me into some of the mysteries of this
race, which has proved minatory, though not destructive, to his blushing crop,--and accordingly
led me through brake and brier, past wild and gloomy cedar-swamps, over brooks insecurely bridged
with fallen logs, or, perchance, with stepping-blocks of pine-stumps, far into the silent forest,
and to a little dell or dingle,--a natural clearing,--where a couple of tents were pitched,
and the smoke of a struggling fire told infallibly of human neighborhood. The barking of a
splenetic little terrier brought from one of the tents a man of some fifty years, lank and
gaunt of visage, with matted hair, and wild, uncivilized eyes, dressed in a ragged jacket and
what had once been a pair of trousers. His face wore no expression of intelligence; but a look
of intense, though animal cunning lurked in his eyes. While I was gazing on this individual,
who stood in silence by his tent, there emerged from the other an ancient female, who might
have been eighty years of age, but who hobbled towards us with much briskness.

"Good evening, Hannah Butler," said Mr. B.; "I've brought you some tomatoes from the Big House.
This is my friend, Mr. Smith of York."

Mr. Smith of York (grimly repressing a smile, as his mischievous memory whispered something
about Brooks of Sheffield) bowed gravely to Mrs. Butler. Mr. B. whispers,--"That's the Queen
of the Pine Rats!" Hannah meanwhile mumbles over one of the fleshy tomatoes.

The man whom we had first seen held in his hand a tattered shawl, with which he now began patching
a portion of his tent, saying at the same time that there was a storm a-brewing.

"Ay, is there!" said Mrs. Butler; "and a storm like the one when I seed Leeds's devil"--

"Hush!" interrupted her ragged companion, with a look of terror. "What's the good o' namin'
him, and allus talkin' about him, when yer don't never know as he ar'n't byside ye?"

"I'll devil yer!" shrieked the crone, through a half-eaten tomato. "Finish mendin' up yer cover,
yer mean cranberry-thief!"

The spiteful terrier, which had meanwhile evinced an unpleasant interest in the thickness of
my pantaloons, added his yelping to the clamor, and Mr. B., pointing to the clouds, thought
we had better hasten homewards. So we bade farewell to Hannah and her nephew, as I learned
that the unfortunate vessel of her wrath in reality was, and dived into the gloomy recesses
of the Pines again.

Long ere we got back to Cranberry Lodge, all doubts of an impending tempest had disappeared.
The eastern sky, cloudless an hour before, was now overhung with a livid bank of ash-gray clouds,
which were incessantly riven by broad and terrible flashes of silent lightning. A slight westerly
breeze was blowing, and evidently impeded the progress of the storm, which was beating up from
seaward against the wind. Plunging through prickly thickets and dashing through the turbid
brooks, we hastened toward the clearing, committed Cranberry Lodge to the custody of the "hired
man," and untied our horses from the saplings to which they were made fast. In another moment
we were on the back trail. Scarcely, however, was the clearing shut out of view when a little
hesitating puff of wind from the east blew chill upon us; the breeze had veered, and the tempest
was at hand. In the twinkling of an eye, the western horizon was overhung with the same ghastly
storm-bank that threatened in the east, while a monitory gust rustled through the sighing pines,
wildly twisting and tossing the undergrowth,--overspread with a quivering pallor as it bent
before the breeze,--and bade us be prepared. Next moment, a clap of thunder, rattling like
the artillery of ten thousand sieges, or like millions of bars of iron dashed furiously together,
broke upon the forest. It was the most awful sound, terrible even in its expected suddenness,
that I ever heard. Simultaneously a flash of purple lightning fell from the zenith to the horizon,
splitting the clouds asunder, and with it there descended rain in a cataract rather than in
torrents, so that in the twinkling of an eye the thirsty sand was saturated, and bubbling pools
of water pattered in the deluged path. Crash after crash, each clap more terrific than the
one preceding, came the awful thunder; blinding flashes of lightning darted around us;--but
still our phlegmatic ponies galloped on, and only once started violently, when a peal which
really seemed as if its shock must burst the heavens asunder dazed us momentarily with its
almost unendurable sound. The gloomy canopy above us, meanwhile, was overrun by incessant streams
of purple lightning, and the deluge of rain still fell. At length we reached the Big House,
(somewhat ostentatiously reducing the speed of our horses to a walk as we came within sight
of its embowered windows,) and were soon dripping in the kitchen. A change of apparel, calling
into requisition Mexican ponchos and other picturesque garments, with a smoke beside a roaring
fire, completely obviated all dangerous consequences; nor was it without feelings of great
satisfaction that B. and myself watched tranquilly from our comfortable ensconcement the beatings
of the storm on the encircling forest.

The Big House, I found, was full of legends of the Pine Rats. This extraordinary race of beings
are lineal descendants of the New Jersey Tories, who, during the Revolution, made the Pines
their refuge, whence they sallied in perpetual forays against the farms and dwellings of the
partisans of the opposite cause. Several hundreds of these fanatical desperadoes made the forest
their home, and laid waste the surrounding townships by their sudden raids. Most barbarous
cruelties were practised on both sides, in the contests which continually took place between
Whigs and Tories, and the unnatural seven-years' war possessed nowhere darker features than
in the neighborhood of the New Jersey Pines. Remains of these forest-freebooters are still
discovered from time to time, in the process of clearing the woods, and unmistakable relics
are occasionally met with in the denser portions of the forest, which must have been comparatively
open eighty years ago.

The degraded descendants of these Tories constitute the principal difficulty with which a proprietor
in this region has to contend. Completely besotted and brutish in their ignorance, they are
incapable of obtaining an honest living, and have supported themselves, from a time which may
be called immemorial, by practising petty larceny on an organized plan. The Pine Rat steals
wood, steals game, steals cranberries, steals anything, in fact, that his hand can be laid
upon; and woe to the property of the man who dares attempt to restrain him! A few weeks may,
perhaps, elapse, after the tattered savage has received a warning or a reprimand, and then
a column of smoke will be seen stealing up from some quarter in the forest;--he has set the
woods on fire! Conflagrations of this kind will sometimes sweep away many hundreds of acres
of the most valuable timber; while accidental fires are also of frequent occurrence. When indications
of a fire are noticed, every available hand--men, women, and children alike--is hurried to
the spot for the purpose of "fighting" it. Getting to leeward of the flames, the "fighters"
kindle a counter-conflagration, which is drawn or sucked against the wind to the part already
burning, and in this manner a vacant space is secured, which proves a barrier to the flames.
Dexterity in fighting fires is a prime requisite in a forest overseer or workman.

"And now, something about Leeds's devil!" I said to my friend, after satisfactory definition
of the Pine Rat; "what fiend may he be, if you please?"

"I will answer,--I will tell you," replies Mr. B. "There lived, in the year 1735, in the township
of Burlington, a woman. Her name was Leeds, and she was shrewdly suspected of a little amateur
witchcraft. Be that as it may, it is well established, that, one stormy, gusty night, when
the wind was howling in turret and tree, Mother Leeds gave birth to a son, whose father could
have been no other than the Prince of Darkness. No sooner did he see the light than he assumed
the form of a fiend, with a horse's head, wings of bat, and a serpent's tail. The first thought
of the newborn Caliban was to fall foul of his mother, whom he scratched and bepommelled soundly,
and then flew through the window out into the village, where he played the mischief generally.
Little children he devoured, maidens he abused, young men he mauled and battered; and it was
many days before a holy man succeeded in repeating the enchantment of Prospero. At length,
however, Leeds's devil was laid,--but only for one hundred years.

"During an entire century, the memory of that awful monster was preserved, and, as 1835 drew
nigh, the denizens of Burlington and the Pines looked tremblingly for his rising. Strange to
say, however, no one but Hannah Butler has had a personal interview with the fiend; though,
since 1835, he has frequently been heard howling and screaming in the forest at night, to the
terror of the Rats in their lonely encampments. Hannah Butler saw the devil, one stormy night,
long ago; though some skeptical individuals affirm, that very possibly she may have been led,
under the influence of liquid Jersey lightning, to invest a pine-stump, or, possibly, a belated
bear, with diabolical attributes and a Satanic voice. However that may be, you cannot induce
a Rat to leave his hut after dark,--nor, indeed, will you find many Jerseymen, though of a
higher order of intelligence, who will brave the supernatural terrors of the gloomy forest
at night, unless secure in the strength of numbers."

The Pine Rat, in his vocation as a picker-up of every unconsidered trifle, is an adept at charcoal-burning,
on the sly. The business of legitimate charcoal-manufacture is also largely practised in the
Pines, although the growing value of wood interferes sadly with the coalers. Here and there,
however, a few acres are marked out every year for charring, and the coal-pits are established
in the clearing made by felling the trees. The "coaling," as it is technically termed, is an
assemblage of "pits," or piles of wood, conical in form, and about ten feet in height by twenty
in diameter. The wood is cut in equal lengths, and is piled three or four tiers high, each
log resting on the end of that below it, and inclining slightly inwards. An opening is left
in the centre of the pile, serving as a chimney; and the exterior is overlaid with strips of
turf, called "floats," which form an almost air-tight covering. When the pile is overlaid,
fire is set at various small apertures in the sides, and when the whole "pit" is fairly burning,
the chimney is closed, in order to prevent too rapid combustion, and the whole pile is slowly
converted into charcoal. The application of the term "pit" to these piles is worthy of remark.
It is due, of course, to the fact, that for centuries it was customary to burn charcoal in
excavated pits, until it was discovered that gradual combustion could be as well secured by
another and less tedious method.

The Pine Rat glories in his surreptitious coal-pits. In secluded portions of the forest, he
may continually be discovered pottering over a "coaling," for which he has stolen the wood.
This, indeed, is his only handicraft,--the single labor to which he condescends or is equal.
Two or three men sometimes band together and build themselves huts after the curious fashion
peculiar to the Rat, namely, by piling sticks or branches in a slope on each side of some tall
pine, so that a wigwam, with the trunk of the tree in the centre, is constructed. Inside this
triangular shelter--the idea of which was probably borrowed from the Indians--the Pine Rat
ensconces himself with his whiskey-bottle at night, crouching in dread of the darkness, or
of Leeds's devil, aforesaid. In this respect he singularly resembles the Bohemian charcoal-burner,
who trembles at the thought of Rübezahl, that malicious goblin, who has an army of mountain-dwarfs
and gnomes at his command. So long as the sunlight inspires our Rat with confidence, however,
he will work at his coal-pit, while one comrade is away in the forest, snaring game, and another
has, perhaps, been dispatched to the precincts of civilization with his wagon-load of coal.
Yes! the Pine Rat sometimes treads the streets of cities,--nay, even extends his wanderings
to the banks of the Delaware and the Hudson, to Philadelphia and Trenton, to Jersey City and
New York. Then, who so sharp as the grimy tatterdemalion, who passes from street to street
and from house to house, with his swart and rickety wagon, and his jangling bell, the discordant
clangor of which, when we hear it, calls up horrible recollections of the bells that froze
our hearts in plague-stricken cities of other lands, when doomed galley-slaves and forçats
wheeled awful vehicles of putrefaction through the streets, clashing and clinking their clamorous
bells for more and still more corpses, and foully jesting over the Death which they knew was
already upon them! But the long-drawn, monotonous, nasal cry of the charcoal-vender--who has
not heard it?--"Cha-r-coa'! Cha-r-coa'!"--is more cheerful than the demoniac laughter of the
desperate galley-slaves, and his bell sounds musically when we hear it and think of theirs.
Sometimes a couple of these peregrinants may be seen to encounter each other in the streets,
and straightway there is an adjournment to the nearest bar-room, where the most scientific
method of "springing the arch" is discussed over a glass of whiskey, at three cents the quart.
Springing the arch, though few may be able to interpret the phrase, is a trick by which every
housewife has suffered. It is the secret of piling the coal into the measure in such a manner
as to make the smaller quantity pass for the larger, or, in other words, to make three pecks
go for a bushel. So the Pine Rat vindicates his claim to a common humanity with all the rest
of us men and women; for have not we all our secret and most approved method of springing the
arch,--of palming off our three short pecks for a full and bounteous imperial bushel? Ah, yes!
brothers and sisters, whisper it, if you will, below your breath, but we all can do the Pine
Rat's trick!

We shall not suffer his company much longer in this world,--poor, neglected, pitiable, darkened
soul that he is, this fellow-citizen of ours. He must move on; for civilization, like a stern,
prosaic policeman, will have no idlers in the path. There must be no vagrants, not even in
the forest, the once free and merry greenwood, our policeman-civilization says; nay, the forest,
even, must keep a-moving! We must have farms here, and happy homesteads, and orchards heavy
with promise of cider, and wheat golden as hope, instead of silent aisles and avenues of mournful
pine-trees, sheltering such forlorn miscreations as our poor cranberry-stealing friends! Railways
are piercing the Pines; surveyors are marking them out in imaginary squares; market-gardeners
are engaging land; and farmers are clearing it. The Rat is driven from point to point, from
one means of subsistence to another; and shortly, he will have to make the bitter choice between
regulated labor and starvation clean off from the face of the earth. There is no room for a
gypsy in all our wide America! The Rat must follow the Indian,--must fade like breath from
a window-pane in winter!

In fact, the forest, left so long in its aboriginal savagery, is about to be regenerated. A
railroad is to be constructed, this year, which will place Hanover and the centre of the forest
within one hour's travel of Philadelphia; and it is scarcely too much to anticipate, that,
within five years, thousands of acres, now dense with pines and cedars of a hundred rings,
will be laid out in blooming market-gardens and in fields of generous corn. Such little cultivation
as has hitherto been attempted has been attended by the most astonishing results; and persons
have actually returned from the West and South, in order to occupy farms in the neighborhood
of Hanover.

In one respect c'est dommage; one is grieved to part with the game that is now so plentiful
in the Pines. Owing to the beneficent provision of the laws of New Jersey, which stringently
forbid every description of hunting in the State during alternate periods of five years, game
of all kinds has an opportunity to multiply; and at the termination of the season of rest,
in October, 1858, there was some noble hunting in the neighborhood of Hanover. Five years hence,
bears and deer will be a tradition, panthers and raccoons a myth, partridges and quails a vain
and melancholy recollection, in what shall then be known as what was once the Pines.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST BIRD.

      Little Bird that singest
  Far atop, this warm December day,
      Heaven bestead thee, that thou wingest,
  Ere the welcome song is done, thy way

      To more certain weather,
  Where, built high and solemnly, the skies,
      Shaken by no storm together,
  Fixed in vaults of steadfast sapphire rise!

      There, the smile that mocks us
  Answers with its warm serenity;
      There, the prison-ice that locks us
  Melts forgotten in a purple sea.

      There, thy tuneful brothers,
  In the palm's green plumage waiting long,
      Mate them with the myriad others,
  Like a broken rainbow bound with song.

      Winter scarce is hidden,
  Veiled within this fair, deceitful sky;
      Fly, ere, from his ambush bidden,
  He descend in ruin swift and nigh!

      By the Summer stately,
  Truant, thou wast fondly reared and bred:
      Dost thou linger here so lately,
  Knowing not thy beauteous friend is dead,--

     Like to hearts that, clinging
  Fervent where their first delight was fed,
     Move us with untimely singing
  Of the hopes whose blossom-time is sped?

     Beauties have their hour,
  Safely perched on the Spring-budding tree;
     For the ripened soul is trust and power,
  And, beyond, the calm eternity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UTAH EXPEDITION:

ITS CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES.

[Concluded.]

On the 3d of July, the Commissioners started on their return to the States. During their stay
at Salt Lake City, the doubt which they had been led to entertain of the wisdom of the policy
which they were the agents to carry out, had ripened into a firm conviction.

The people who were congregated on the eastern shore of Lake Utah did not begin to repair to
their homes until the army had marched thirty or forty miles away from the city; and even then
there was a secrecy about their movements which was as needless as it was mysterious. They
returned in divisions of from twenty to a hundred families each. Their trains, approaching
the city during the afternoon, would encamp on some creek in its vicinity until midnight, when,
if intended for the northern settlements, they would pass rapidly through the streets, or else
make a circuit around the city-wall. August arrived before the return was completed.

Morning after morning, one square after another was seen stripped of the board barricades which
had sheltered windows and doors from intrusion. In front of every gateway wagons were emptying
their loads of household furniture. The streets soon lost their deserted aspect, though for
many days the only wayfarers were men,--not a woman being visible, except, by chance, to the
profane eyes of the invaders. It was near the end of July before a single house was rented
except to the intimate associates of the Governor. Up to that time, those Gentiles who did
not follow the army to its permanent camp bivouacked on the public squares. By a Church edict,
all Mormons were forbidden to enter into business transactions with persons outside their sect
without consulting Brigham Young, whose office was beset daily by a throng of clients beseeching
indulgences and instruction. Immediately after his return to the city, however, he secluded
himself from public observation, never appearing in the streets, nor on the balconies of his
mansion-house. He even encompassed his residence with an armed guard.

Gradually, nevertheless, the necessities of the people induced a modification of this system
of non-intercourse. The Gentile merchants, who were present with great wagon-trains containing
all those articles indispensable to the comfort of life, of which the Mormons stood so much
in need, refused to open a single box or bale until they could hire storehouses. The permission
was at length accorded, and immediately the absolute external reserve of the people began to
wear away. Both sexes thronged to the stores, eager to supply themselves with groceries and
garments; but there they experienced a wholesome rebuff, for which some of them were not entirely
unprepared. The merchants refused to receive the paper of the Deseret Currency Association
with which the Territory was flooded; and its notes were depreciated instantly by more than
fifty per cent. Many of the people were driven to barter cattle and farm-produce for the articles
they needed; and for the first time since the establishment of the Church in Utah an audible
murmur arose among its adherents against its exactions. The sight of their neglected farms
was also calculated to bring the poorer agriculturists to sober reflection. They perceived
that the army, which they had been taught to believe would commit every conceivable outrage,
was, on the contrary, demeaning itself with extreme forbearance and even kindness toward them,
and was supplying an ampler market for the sale of their produce than they had enjoyed since
the years when the overland emigration to California culminated. Nevertheless, their regrets,
if entertained at all, found no public and concerted utterance. The authority of the Church
exacted a sullen demeanor toward all Gentiles.

The 24th of July, the great Mormon anniversary, was suffered to pass without celebration; but
its recurrence must have suggested anxious thoughts and bitter recollections to a great part
of the population. When they remembered their enthusiastic declaration of independence only
one year before, the warlike demonstrations which followed it, the prophecies of Young that
the Lord would smite the army as he smote the hosts of Sennacherib, the fever of hate and apprehension
into which they had been worked, and contrasted that period of excitement with their present
condition, they must, indeed, have found abundant material for meditation. By the emigration
southward they had lost at least four months of the most valuable time of the year. Their families
had been subjected to every variety of exposure and hardship. Their ready money had been extorted
from them by the Currency Association, or consumed in the expenses of transporting their movables
to Lake Utah. And more than all, the fields had so suffered by their absence, that the crops
were diminished to at least one-half the yield of an ordinary year. To a community the mass
of which lives from hand to mouth, this was a most serious loss.

Almost all agriculture in Utah is carried on by the aid of irrigation. From April till October
hardly a shower falls upon the soil, which parches and cracks in the hot sunshine. The settlements
are all at the base of the mountains, where they can take advantage of the brooks that leap
down through the cañons. They are, therefore, necessarily scattered along the line of the main
Wahsatch range, from the Roseaux River, which flows into the Salt Lake from the north, to the
Vegas of the Santa Clara,--a distance of nearly four hundred miles. The labor expended in ditching
has been immense, but it has been confined wholly to tapping the smaller streams.

By damming the Jordan in Salt Lake Valley and the Sevier in Parawan Valley, and distributing
their water over the broad bottom-lands, on which the only vegetation now is wild sage and
greasewood, the area of arable ground might be quintupled; and any considerable increase of
population will render such an undertaking indispensable; for the narrow strip which is fertilized
by the mountain-brooks yields scarcely more than enough to supply the present number of inhabitants.
Nowhere does it exceed two or three miles in breadth, except along the eastern shore of Lake
Utah, where it extends from the base of the mountains to the verge of the lake.

Almost all cereals and vegetables attain the utmost perfection, rivalling the most luxuriant
productions of California. Within the last few years the cultivation of the Chinese sugar-cane
has been introduced, and has proved successful. In Salt Lake City considerable attention is
paid to horticulture. Peaches, apples, and grapes grow to great size, at the same time retaining
excellent flavor. The grape which is most common is that of the vineyards of Los Angeles. In
the vicinity of Provo an attempt has been made to cultivate the tea-plant; and on the Santa
Clara several hundred acres have been devoted to the culture of cotton, but with imperfect
success. Flax, however, is raised in considerable quantity. The fields are rarely fenced with
rails, and almost never with stones. The dirt-walls by which they are usually surrounded are
built by driving four posts into the ground, which support a case, ten or twelve feet in length,
made of boards. This is packed full of mud, which dries rapidly in the intense heat of a summer
noon. When it is sufficiently dry to stand without crumbling, the posts are moved farther along
and the same operation is repeated.

The country is not dotted with farmhouses, like the agricultural districts of the East. The
inhabitants all live in towns, or "forts," as they are more commonly called, each of which
is governed by a Bishop. These are invariably laid out in a square, which is surrounded by
a lofty wall of mere dirt, or else of adobe. In the smaller forts there are no streets, all
the dwellings backing upon the wall, and inclosing a quadrangular area, which is covered with
heaps of rubbish, and alive with pigs, chickens, and children. The same stream which irrigates
the fields in the vicinity supplies the people with water for domestic purposes. There are
few wells, even in the cities. Except in Salt Lake City and Provo, no barns are to be seen.
The wheat is usually stored in the garrets of the houses; the hay is stacked; and the animals
are herded during the winter in sheltered pastures on the low lands.

All the people of the smaller towns are agriculturists. In none of them is there a single shop.
In Provo there are several small manufacturing establishments, for which the abundant water-power
of the Timpanogas River, that tumbles down the neighboring cañon, furnishes great facilities.
The principal manufacturing enterprise ever undertaken in the Territory--that for the production
of beet-sugar--proved a complete failure. A capital advanced by Englishmen, to the amount of
more than one hundred thousand dollars, was totally lost, and the result discouraged foreigners
from all similar investments. Rifles and revolvers are made in limited number from the iron
tires of the numerous wagons in which goods are brought into the Valley. There are tanneries,
and several distilleries and breweries. In the large towns there are many thriving mechanics;
but elsewhere even the blacksmith's trade is hardly self-supporting, and the carpenters and
shoemakers are all farmers, practising their trades only during intervals from work in the fields.

The deficiency of iron, coal, and wood is the chief obstacle to the material development of
Utah. No iron-mines have been discovered, except in the extreme southern portion of the Territory;
and the quality of the ore is so inferior, that it is available only for the manufacture of
the commonest household utensils, such as andirons. The principal coal-beds hitherto found
are in the immediate vicinity of Green River. There are several sawmills, all run by water-power,
scattered among the more densely-wooded cañons; but they supply hardly lumber enough to meet
the demand,--even the sugar-boxes and boot-cases which are thrown aside at the merchants' stores
being eagerly sought after and appropriated. The most ordinary articles of wooden furniture
command extravagant prices.

Nowhere is the absence of trees, the utter desolation of the scenery, more impressive than
in a view from the southern shore of the Great Salt Lake. The broad plain which intervenes
between its margin and the foot of the Wahsatch Range is almost entirely lost sight of; the
mountain-slopes, their summits flecked with snow, seem to descend into water on every side
except the northern, on which the blue line of the horizon is interrupted only by Antelope
Island. The prospect in that direction is apparently as illimitable as from the shore of an
ocean. The sky is almost invariably clear, and the water intensely blue, except where it dashes
over fragments of rock that have fallen from some adjacent cliff, or where a wave, more aspiring
than its fellows, overreaches itself and breaks into a thin line of foam. Through a gap in
the ranges on the west, the line of the Great Desert is dimly visible. The beach of the lake
is marked by a broad belt of fine sand, the grains of which are all globular. Along its upper
margin is a rank growth of reeds and salt grass. Swarms of tiny flies cover the surface of
every half-evaporated pool, and a few white sea-gulls are drifting on the swells. Nowhere is
there a sign of refreshing verdure except on the distant mountainsides, where patches of green
grass glow in the sunlight among the vast fields of sage.

The buildings throughout the entire Territory are, almost without exception, of adobe. The
brick is of a uniform drab color, more pleasing to the eye than the reddish hue of the adobes
of New Mexico or the buff tinge of many of those in California. In size it is about double
that commonly used in the States. The clay, also, is of very superior quality. The principal
stone building in the Territory is the Capitol, at Fillmore, one hundred and fifty miles south
of Salt Lake City. The design of the architect is for a very magnificent edifice in the shape
of a Greek cross, with a rotunda sixty feet in diameter. Only one wing has been completed,
but this is spacious enough to furnish all needful accommodation. The material is rough-hammered
sandstone, of an intense red.

The plan of Salt Lake City is an index to that of all the principal towns. It is divided into
squares, each side of which is forty rods in length. The streets are more than a hundred feet
wide, and are all unpaved. There is not a single sidewalk of brick, stone, or plank. The situation
is well chosen, being directly at the foot of the southern slope of a spur which juts out from
the main Wahsatch range. Less than twenty miles from the city, almost overshadowing it, are
peaks which rise to the altitude of nearly twelve thousand feet, from which the snow of course
never disappears. But during the summer months, when scarcely a shower falls upon the valley,
its drifts become dun-colored with dust from the friable soil below, and present an aspect
similar to that of the Pyrenees at the same season. During most of the year, the rest of the
mountains which encircle the Valley are also capped with snow. The residences of Young and
Kimball are situated on almost the highest ground within the city-limits, and the land slopes
gradually down from them to the south, east, and west. This inclination suggested the mode
of supplying the city with water. A mountain-brook, pure and cold, bubbling from under snow-drifts,
is guided from this highland down the gently sloping streets in gutters adjoining both the
sidewalks. A municipal ordinance imposes severe penalties on any one who fouls it. Young's
buildings and gardens occupy an entire square, ten acres in extent, as do also Kimball's. They
consist, first, of the Mansion, a spacious two-storied building, in the style of the Yankee-Grecian
villas which infest New England towns, with piazzas supported by Doric columns, and a cupola
which is surmounted by a beehive, the peculiar emblem of the Mormons, although there is not
a single honey-bee in the Territory. This, like all its companions, is of adobe, but it is
coated with plaster, and painted white. Next to it is a small building, used formerly as an
office, in which the temporal business of the Governor was transacted. By its side stands another
office, on the same model, but on a larger scale, devoted to the business of the President
of the Church. These are connected by passage-ways both with the Mansion and with the Lion-House,
which is the most westerly of the group, and is the finest building in the Territory, having
cost nearly eighty thousand dollars. Like both the offices, it stands with a gable toward the
street, and the plaster with which it is covered has a light buff tinge. The architecture is
Elizabethan. Above a porch in front is the figure of a recumbent lion, hewn in sandstone. On
each of the sides, which overlook the gardens, ten little windows project from the roof just
above the eaves. The whole square is surrounded by a wall of cobblestones and mortar, ten or
twelve feet in height, strengthened by buttresses at intervals of forty or fifty feet. Massive
plank gates bar the entrances. In one corner is the Tithing-Office, where the faithful render
their reluctant tribute to the Lord. Only the swift city-creek intervenes between this square
and Kimball's, which is encompassed by a similar wall. His buildings have no pretensions to
architectural merit, being merely rough piles of adobe scattered irregularly all over the grounds.

The Temple Square is in the immediate neighborhood, and is of the same size. It is inclosed
by a wall even more massive than the others, plastered and divided into panels. Near its southwestern
corner stands the Tabernacle, a long, one-storied building, with an immense roof, containing
a hall which will hold three thousand people. There the Mormon religious services are conducted
during the winter months; but throughout the summer the usual place of gathering to listen
to the sermons is in "boweries," so called, which are constructed by planting posts in the
ground and weaving over them a flat roof of willow-twigs. An excavation near the centre of
the square, partially filled with dirt previously to the exodus to Provo, marks the spot where
the Temple is to rise. It is intended that this edifice shall infinitely surpass in magnificence
its predecessor at Nauvoo. The design purports to be a revelation from heaven, and, if so,
must have emanated from some one of the Gothic architects of the Middle Ages whose taste had
become bewildered by his residence among the spheres; for the turrets are to be surmounted
by figures of sun, moon, and stars, and the whole building bedecked with such celestial emblems.
Only part of the foundation-wall has yet been laid, but it sinks thirty feet deep and is eight
feet broad at the surface of the ground. Its length, according to the heavenly plan, is to
be two hundred and twenty feet, and its width one hundred and fifty feet. Beside the Tabernacle
and the incipient Temple, the only considerable building within the square is the Endowment-House,
where those rites are celebrated which bind a member to fidelity to the Church under penalty
of death, and admit him to the privilege of polygamy.

The other principal buildings within the city are the Council-House, a square pile of sandstone,
once used as the Capitol,--and the County Court-House, yet unfinished, above which rises a
cupola covered with tin. Most of the houses in the immediate vicinity of Young's are two stories
high, for that is the aristocratic quarter of the town. In the outskirts, however, they never
exceed one story, and resemble in dimensions the innumerable cobblers'-shops of Eastern Massachusetts.

None of the streets have names, except those which bound the Temple Square and are known as
North, South, East, and West Temple Streets, and also the broad avenue which receives the road
from Emigration Cañon and is called Emigration Street. Except on East Temple or Main Street,
which is the business street of the city, the houses are all built at least twenty feet back
from the sidewalk, and to each one is attached a considerable plot of ground. There is no provision
for lighting the streets at night. The cotton-wood trees along the borders of the gutters have
attained a considerable growth during the eight or nine years since they were planted, and
afford an agreeable shade to all the sidewalks.

Around a great portion of the city stretches a mud wall with embrasures and loopholes for musketry,
which was built under Young's direction in 1853, ostensibly to guard against Indian attacks,
but really to keep the people busy and prevent their murmuring. To the east of this runs a
narrow canal, which was dug by the voluntary labor of the Saints, nearly fifteen miles to Cottonwood
Creek, for the transportation of stone to be used in building the Temple.

Just outside the city-limits, near the northeastern corner of the wall, lies the Cemetery,
on a piece of undulating ground traversed by deep gullies, and unadorned even by a solitary
tree,--the only vegetation sprouting out of its parched soil being a melancholy crop of weeds
interspersed with languid sunflowers. The disproportion between the deaths of adults and those
of children, which has been a subject for comment by every writer on Mormonism, is peculiarly
noticeable there. Most of the graves are indicated only by rough boards, on which are scrawled
rudely, with pencil or paint, the names and ages of the dead, and usually also verses from
the Bible and scraps of poetry; but among all the inscriptions it is remarkable that there
is not a single quotation from the "Book of Mormon." The graves are totally neglected after
the bodies are consigned to them. Nowhere has a shrub or a flower been planted by any affectionate
hand, except in one little corner of the inclosure which is assigned to the Gentiles, between
whose dust and that of the Mormons there seems to exist a distinction like that which prevails
in Catholic countries between the ashes of heretics and those of faithful churchmen. The mode
of burial is singularly careless. A funeral procession is rarely seen; and such instances are
mentioned by travellers as that of a father bearing to the grave the coffin of his own child
upon his shoulder.

The interiors of the houses are as neat as could be expected, considering the extent of the
families. Very often, three wives, one husband, and half-a-dozen children will be huddled together
in a hovel containing only two habitable rooms,--an arrangement of course subversive of decency.
Few people are able to purchase carpets, and their furniture is of the coarsest and commonest
kind. There are few, if any, families which maintain servants. In that of Brigham Young, each
woman has a room assigned her, for the neatness of which she is herself responsible;--Young's
own chamber is in the rear of the office of the President of the Church, upon the ground floor.
The precise number of the female inmates can often be computed from the exterior of the houses.
These being frequently divided into compartments, each with its own entrance from the yard,
and its own chimney, and being generally only one story in height, the number of doors is an
exact index to that of residents.

The domestic habits of the people vary greatly according to their nativity. Of the forty-five
thousand inhabitants of the Territory, at least one-half are immigrants from England and Wales,--the
scum of the manufacturing towns and mining districts, so superstitious as to have been capable
of imbibing the Mormon faith,--though between what is preached in Great Britain and what is
practised in America there exists a wide difference,--and so destitute in circumstances as
to have been incapable of deteriorating their fortunes by emigration. Possibly one-fifth are
Danes, Swedes, and Norwegians. This allows a remainder of three-tenths for the native American
element. An Irishman or a German is rarely found. Of the Americans, by far the greater proportion
were born in the Northeastern States; and the three principal characters in the history of
the Church--Smith, Young, and Kimball--all originated in Vermont, but were reared in Western
New York, a region which has been the hot-bed of American isms from the discovery of the Golden
Bible to the outbreak of the Rochester rappings. This American element maintains, in all affairs
of the Church, its natural political ascendency. Of the twelve Apostles only one is a foreigner,
and among the rest of the ecclesiastical dignitaries the proportion is not very different.

The Scandinavian Mormons are very clannish in their disposition. They occupy some settlements
exclusively, and in Salt Lake City there is one quarter tenanted wholly by them, and nicknamed
"Denmark," just as that portion of Cincinnati monopolized by Germans is known as "over the
Rhine." Like their English and Welsh associates, they belonged to the lowest classes of the
mechanics and peasantry of their native countries. They are all clownish and brutal. Their
women work in the fields. In their houses and gardens there is no symptom of taste, or of the
recollection of former and more innocent days; while in every cottage owned by Americans there
is visible, at least, a clock, or a pair of China vases, or a rude picture, which once held
a similar position in some farm-house in New England.

It is not intended to discuss here the cardinal points of the Mormon faith, for the subject
is too extensive for the limits of this article. A great misapprehension, however, prevails
concerning polygamy, that it was one of the original doctrines of the Church.

Up to this date, there have been four eras in the history of polygamy among the Mormons: the
first, from about 1833 to 1843, during which it was practised stealthily only by those Church
leaders to whom it was considered prudent to impart the secret; the second, from 1843 to 1852,
during which its existence was known to the Church, but denied to the world; the third, from
1852 to 1856, during which it was left to the discretion of individuals whether to adopt its
practice or not; and the fourth, since 1856, when its acceptance was inculcated as essential
to happiness in this world and salvation in the next. It was the inevitable tendency of Mormonism,
like every other religious delusion, from the advent of John of Leyden to that of the Spiritualists,
to disturb the natural relation of the sexes under the Christian dispensation. The mystery
surrounding the subject constituted the most attractive charm of the religion, both to the
initiated and to those who were seeking to be admitted to the secrets of the Endowment,--for
the Endowed alone possess the privilege of a plurality of wives. But until the community had
become firmly fixed in Utah, no one dared to justify or even to proclaim the doctrine. At the
time of the passage of the Organic Act of the Territory, in the autumn of 1850, and repeatedly
during the next two years, prominent Mormons at Washington and New York denied its existence,
with the most solemn asseverations. It was on Sunday, August 29th, 1852, that it was openly
avowed at Salt Lake City,--Brigham Young on that day producing the copy of a revelation, pretended
to have been received by Smith on the 12th of July, 1843, which annulled the monogamic injunctions
of the Book of Mormon, and stating, that, "although the doctrine of polygamy has not been preached
by the elders, the people have believed in it for years." Upon the same occasion, another doctrine
was urged,--that human beings upon earth propagate merely bodies, the souls which inhabit them
being begotten by spirits in heaven.

The number of the wives of many of the principal Mormons has been greatly exaggerated. Attached
to Young's establishment in Salt Lake City, there are only sixteen. His first wife occupies
the Mansion-House exclusively, while the others are quartered in the Lion-House. Besides these,
he has probably fifty or sixty more, scattered all over the Territory, and in the principal
cities of the United States and of Great Britain. His living children do not exceed thirty
in number. Kimball's wives, resident in Salt Lake City, are quite as numerous as Young's, and
his children even more so. Both of them aim to reproduce the domestic life of the Biblical
patriarchs; and within the squares which they occupy their descendants dwell also, with their
wives and progeny, all of them acknowledging the control of the head of the family. The harems
of very few of the Church dignitaries approach these in magnitude. The extent of the practice
of polygamy cannot be determined by a residence in Salt Lake City alone, for it is there that
those Church officers congregate whose wealth enables them to maintain large families. As the
traveller journeys northward or southward, he finds the instances diminish in almost exact
proportion to his remoteness from the central ecclesiastical influence. There is even a sect
of Mormons, called Gladdenites, after their founder, one Gladden Bishop, who deny the right
of Young to supreme authority over the Church, and discountenance polygamy. No computation
of their number can be made, for few of them dare avow their heresy, on account of the persecution
which is the invariable result. The leaders of this sect maintain that a majority of the married
men in Utah have but one wife each, and their assertion has never been controverted.

One of the most monstrous results of the practice is the indifference with which an incestuous
connection is tolerated. The cohabitation, with the same man, of a mother, and her daughter
by a previous marriage, is not unfrequent; and there are other instances even more disgusting.
One or two of them will exemplify the character of the whole. One George D. Watt, an Englishman,
residing at Salt Lake City, has for his fourth wife his own half-sister, who had been previously
divorced from Brigham Young; and one Aaron Johnson, the Bishop of the town of Springville,
on Lake Utah, has seven wives, four of whom are sisters, and his own nieces. Young himself
has declared in print, that he looks forward to the time when his son by one wife shall marry
his daughter by another. Marriages also are effected with girls who are mere children. Accustomed
from their cradles to sights and sounds calculated to impart precocious development, they mature
rapidly, and few of them remain single after attaining the age of sixteen. They look around
for husbands, and understand, that, if they marry young men and become first wives, in course
of time other wives will be associated with them; and they conclude, therefore, that it is
as well for themselves to unite with some Bishop or High-Priest, with perhaps half-a-dozen
wives already, who is able to feed his family well and clothe them decently; so they plunge
into polygamy at once. Another result of the practice is universal obscenity of language among
both sexes. The published sermons of the Mormon leaders are utterly vile in this respect, although
they are somewhat expurgated before being printed. They consider no language profane from which
the name of the Deity is exempted.

There is, unquestionably, much unhappiness in families where polygamy prevails,--daily bickering,
jealousies, and heart-burnings,--but it is carefully concealed from the knowledge of the public.
If domestic troubles become so aggravated as to be unendurable, recourse is usually had to
Brigham Young for a divorce. There are women in Salt Lake City who have been married and divorced
half-a-dozen times within a year. The first wife maintains a supremacy over all the others.
On the occasion of her marriage, a civil magistrate usually officiates, and the rite of "sealing"
is afterwards administered by Young. By the civil process, in the cant language of the Mormons,
she is bound to her husband "for time," and by the ecclesiastical solemnization "for eternity."
Every wife taken after the first is called a "spiritual," and is "sealed" ecclesiastically
only, not civilly. It follows, as a legitimate consequence, that the first wife of one man
"for time" may be the "spiritual" wife of another man "for eternity." The power of sealing
and unsealing is vested in the Head of the Church, which, however, he may and does assign,
with certain limitations, to deputies. The ceremony is performed in a room in the Mansion-House
within Brigham's square, which is furnished with an altar and kneelng-benches. In every instance
of divorce, the woman is supplied with a printed certificate of the fact, for which a fee of
ten or eleven dollars is exacted. When a polygamist dies, it becomes the duty of his "next
friend" to care for his wives. Thus, when Young became the President of the Church, he succeeded
to all the widows of Joseph Smith.

Every year some modification of the system is effected, which tends to increase still further
the confusion in the relations of the sexes. The latest is the doctrine, (which, like polygamy
in its earlier stages, is believed, but not avowed,) that absence is temporary death, so far
as concerns the transference of wives. This is intended to apply to the two or three hundred
missionaries who are dispatched yearly to all parts of the globe, from Stockholm to Macao.
It is astonishing that these missionary efforts, which have been pursued with unremitting zeal
for the last twenty years, should not have ingrafted upon Mormonism some degree of that refinement
which is supposed to result from travel. On the contrary, they seem to have elaborated the
natural brutality of the Anglo-Saxon character; and especially with regard to polygamy, their
effect has been to acquaint the people of Utah with the grossest features of its practice in
foreign lands, and encourage them to imitation. Every Mormon, prominent in the Church, however
illiterate in other respects, is thoroughly acquainted with the extent and characteristics
of polygamy in Asiatic countries, and prepared to defend his own domestic habits, in argument,
by historical and geographical references. Not one of their missionaries has ever been admitted
to intercourse with the higher classes of European society. Their sphere of labor and acquaintance
has been entirely among those whom they would term the lowly, but who might also be called
the credulous and vulgar. The abuse of a knowledge of the machinery of the Masonic order--from
which they have been formally excluded--is one of the least evil of their practices, not only
abroad, but at home. Of the Endowment, one apostate Mormon has declared that "its signs, tokens,
marks, and ideas are plagiarized from Masonry"; and it was a notorious fact, that every one
of the Mormon prisoners at the camp at Fort Bridger was accustomed to endeavor to influence
the sentinels at the guard-tents by means of the Masonic signs.

This cursory review of the domestic condition of the Mormons would not be complete without
some allusion to the Indians who infest the whole country. In the North, having their principal
village at the foot of the Wind River Mountains, in the southeastern corner of Oregon, is the
tribe of Mountain Snakes or Shoshonees, and the kindred tribe of Bannocks. Throughout all the
valleys south of Salt Lake City are the numerous bands of the great tribe of Utahs. Still farther
south are the Pyides. The Snakes are superior in condition to any of the others; for, during
a portion of the year, they have access to the buffalo, which have not crossed the Wahsatch
Range into the Great Basin, within the recollection of the oldest trapper. The only wild animals
common in the country of the Utahs are the hare, or "jackass-rabbit," the wild-cat, the wolf,
and the grizzly bear. There are few antelope or elk. Trout abound in the mountain-brooks and
in Lake Utah. In the Salt Lake, as in the Dead Sea, there are no fish. Before the advent of
the Mormons, the habits of all the Utah bands were very degraded. No agency had been established
among them. They had few guns and blankets. For several years they were engaged in constant
hostilities with the people of the young and feeble settlements,--their own method and implements
of warfare improving steadily all the while. Ultimately, however, the Mormons inaugurated a
system of Indian policy, which was highly successful. They propagated their religion among
the Utahs, baptized some of the most prominent chiefs into the Church, fed and clothed them,
and thereby acquired an ascendency over most of the bands, which they attempted to use to the
detriment of the army during the winter of 1857-8, but without success. Brigham Young, being
vested with the superintendence of Indian affairs, during his entire term of service as Governor,
abused the functions of that office. He taught the tribe, that there was a distinction between
"Americans" and "Mormons,"--and that the latter were their friends, while they were free to
commit any depredations on the former which they might see fit. These infamous teachings were
counteracted with considerable success by Dr. Hurt, the Indian Agent, to whom allusion has
frequently been made; but it was impossible wholly to neutralize their effect. Some of the
Mormons even took squaws for spiritual wives; and in all the settlements, from Provo to the
Santa Clara, there are scores of half-breed children, acknowledging half-a-dozen mothers, some
white, some red. The Utahs, though a beggarly, are a docile tribe. Several Government farms
have now been established among them, and they display more than ordinary aptitude for work.
But they require to be spurred to regular labor. None of the charges which have been preferred
against the Mormons, of direct participation in the murder of Americans by the Indians in the
southern portion of the Territory, have ever been substantiated by legal evidence; but no person
can become familiar with the relations which they sustain to those tribes, without attaching
to them some degree of credibility. The most noted instances were the slaughter of Captain
Gunnison and his exploring party, near Lake Sevier, in October, 1853; and the horrible massacre
of more than a hundred emigrants on their way to California, at the Mountain Meadows, still
farther south, in September, 1857, from which only those children were spared who were too
young to speak.

The history of events in Utah since the encamping of the army in Cedar Valley and the return
of the Mormons to the northern settlements is too recent to need to be recounted. It has been
established by satisfactory experiments, that law is powerless in the Territory when it conflicts
with the Church. No Gentile, whose property was confiscated during the rebellion, has yet obtained
redress. The legislature refuses to provide for the expenses of the District Courts while enforcing
the Territorial laws. The grand juries refuse to find indictments. The traverse juries refuse
to convict Mormons. The witnesses perjure themselves without scruple and without exception.
The unruly crowd of camp-followers, which is the inseparable attendant of an army, has concentrated
in Salt Lake City, and is in constant contact and conflict with the Mormon population. An apprehension
prevails, day after day, that the presence of the army may be demanded there to prevent mob-law
and bloodshed. The Governor is alien in his disposition to most of the other Federal officers;
and the Judges are probably already on their way to the States, prepared to resign their commissions.
The whole condition of affairs justifies a prediction made by Brigham Young, June 17th, 1855,
in a sermon, in which he declared:--

"Though I may not be Governor here, my power will not be diminished. No man they can send here
will have much influence with this community, unless he be the man of their choice. Let them
send whom they will, it does not diminish my influence one particle."

The consequences of the Expedition, therefore, have not corresponded to the original expectation
of its projectors. So far as the political condition of the Territory is concerned, the result,
filtered down, amounts simply to a demonstration of the impolicy of applying the doctrine of
Squatter Sovereignty as a rule for its government. The administration of President Polk was
an epoch in the history of the continent. By the annexation of Texas a system of territorial
aggrandizement was inaugurated; and the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, by which California, Utah,
and New Mexico were acquired, was a legitimate result. Every child knows that the tendency
is toward the acquisition of all North America. But the statesmen who originated a policy so
grand did not stop to establish a system of Territorial government correspondent to its necessities.
The character of such a Territorial policy is now the principal subject upon which the great
parties of the nation are divided; and its development will constitute the chief political
achievement of the generation. On one side, it is proposed to leave each community to work
out its own destiny, trusting to Providence for the result. On the other, it is contended,
that the only safe doctrine is, that supreme authority over the Territories resides in Congress,
which it is its duty to assign to such hands and in such degrees as it may deem expedient,
with a view to create homogeneous States; that the same influences which moulded Minnesota
into a State homogeneous to Massachusetts might operate on Cuba, or Sonora and Chihuahua, without
avail; and that to various districts the various methods should be applied which a father would
employ to secure the obedience and welfare of his children.

At the very outset, the Territory of Utah now presents itself as a subject for the application
of the one system or the other. To all intents and purposes, the Mormons are proved to be a
people more foreign to the population of the States than the inhabitants of Cuba or Mexico.
Alien in great part by birth, and entirely alien in religion, there never can occur in the
history of the country an instance of a community harder to govern, with a view to adapt it
to harmonious association with the States on the Atlantic and the Pacific. It is undeniably
demonstrated that it is unsafe to trust it to administer a government in accordance with republican
ideas; for it acknowledges a higher law than even the human conscience, in the will of a person
whom it professes to believe a vicegerent of Divinity, and in obedience to whom perjury, robbery,
incest, and even murder, may be justifiable,--for his commands are those of Heaven. It is obvious
that it is fruitless to anticipate fair dealing from a people professing such doctrines; and
the result has shown, that, in transactions with Mormons, even under oath, no one who does
not acknowledge a standard of religious belief similar to their own can count upon justice
any farther than they may think it politic to accord it. The army is, indeed, placed in a position
to suppress instantaneously another forcible outbreak; but everybody is aware that there are
means of annulling the operation of law quite as effectually as by an uprising in arms. Recent
proceedings in the courts of the extreme Southern States have caused this fact to be keenly
appreciated. The pirates who sailed the slavers "Echo" and "Wanderer" yet remain to be punished.
So far as South Carolina and Georgia are concerned, the law declaring the slave-trade piracy
is a dead letter; and the sentiment which prevails toward it in Charleston and Savannah is
an imperfect index of that which is manifested at Salt Lake City toward all national authority.

The legislation of Utah has been conducted with a view to precisely the condition of affairs
which now exists, and the Territorial statute-book shows that the transfer of executive power
from Brigham Young had long been anticipated. It is impracticable to adduce, in this place,
proof of the fact in extenso; but a brief enumeration of some of the principal statutes will
indicate the character of the entire code. An act exists incorporating the Mormon Church with
power to hold property, both real and personal, to an indefinite extent, exempt from taxation,
coupled with authority to establish laws and criteria for its safety, government, comfort,
and control, and for the punishment of all offences relating to fellowship, according to its
covenants. By this act the Church is invested with absolute and perpetual sovereignty. Under
it the whole system of polygamy is conducted, for plural marriages are sanctioned by the covenants;
the Danite organization is authorized, for it is instituted for the comfort and control of
the Church, and the punishment of offences relative to fellowship; the burden of the taxes
is thrown in a yearly increasing ratio upon Gentiles, for the Church property exempted from
taxation amounts already to several millions of dollars, and increases every day; and the treasonable
rites of the Endowment are celebrated, and the inferior members of the Church tithed and pillaged,
for the benefit of the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles. Acts also exist legalizing
negro and Indian slavery. There are within the Territory at the present time not more than
fifty or sixty negroes, but there are several hundred Indians, held in servitude. These are
mostly Pyides, into whose country some of the Utah bands make periodical forays, capturing
their young women and children, whom they sell to the Navajoes in New Mexico, as well as to
the Mormons. There are other acts, which rob the United States judges of their jurisdiction,
civil, criminal, and in equity, and confer it on the Probate Courts; which forbid the citation
of any reports, even those of the Supreme Court of the United States, during any trial; which
regulate the descent of property so as to include the issue of polygamic marriages among the
legal heirs; which withdraw from exemption from attachment the entire property of persons suspected
of an intention to leave the Territory; which authorize the invasion of domiciles for purposes
of search, upon the simple order of any judicial officer; which legalize the rendition of verdicts
in civil cases upon the concurrence of two-thirds of the jurors; which command attorneys to
present in court, under penalty of fine and imprisonment, in all cases, every fact of which
they are cognizant, "whether calculated to make against their clients or not"; which restrict
the institution of proceedings against adulterers to the husband or the wife of one of the
guilty parties; which levy duties on all goods imported into the Territory for sale; which
abolish the freedom of the ballot-box, by providing that each vote shall be numbered, and a
record kept of the names of the electors with the numbers attached, which, together with the
ballots, shall be preserved for reference; and which empower the county courts to impose taxes
to an indefinite amount on whomsoever they may please, for the erection of fortifications within
their respective jurisdictions. But the most extraordinary and unconstitutional series of acts--no
less than sixty in number--exists with regard to the primary disposal of the soil, with which
the Territorial legislature is expressly forbidden by the Organic Act to interfere. These pretend
to confer upon Church dignitaries, and especially on Brigham Young and his family, tracts of
land probably amounting in the aggregate to more than ten thousand square miles, as well as
the exclusive right to establish bridges and ferries over the principal rivers in the Territory,--together
with the exclusive use of those streams flowing down from the Wahsatch Mountains which are
most valuable for irrigating and manufacturing purposes. The virtual control of the settlement
of the eastern portion of Utah is thus vested in the Church; for these grants include almost
all the lands which are immediately valuable for occupation. After a glance at a list of them,
it is not hard to understand the causes of the great disparity in the distribution of wealth
among the Mormons. They have been so allotted as to benefit a very few at the expense of the
whole people; and they are protected by a terrorism which no one dares to confront in order
to challenge their validity. The majority of the population are ignorant of their rights,--and
too pusillanimous to maintain them against the hierarchy, if they were not. They therefore
contribute to its coffers not merely their tithing, but heavy exactions also for grazing their
cattle on pastures to which they themselves have just as much title as the nominal proprietors,
and for grinding their grain and purchasing their lumber at mills on streams which are of right
common to all the settlers on their banks.

From the Utah Expedition, then, it has become patent to the world, if it is not to ourselves,
that the Mormons are unwilling to administer a republican form of government, if not incapable
of doing so. The author of the letter recently addressed by "A Man of the Latin Race" to the
Emperor Napoleon, on the subject of French influence in America, comments especially upon this
fact as symptomatic of the disintegration of this republic; and allusion is made to it in every
other foreign review of our political condition. It is obviously inconsistent with our national
dignity that a remedy should not be immediately applied; but when we seek for such, only two
courses of action are discernible, in the maze of political quibbles and constitutional scruples
that at once suggest themselves. One is, to repeal the Organic Act and place the Territory
under military control; the other is, to buy the Mormons out of Utah, offering them a reasonable
compensation for the improvements they have made there, as also transportation to whatever
foreign region they may select for a future abode.

The embarrassments which might result from the adoption of the former course are obvious. It
would be attended with immense expense, and would embitter the Mormons still more against the
National Government; and it would also deter Gentiles from emigrating to a region where three
thousand Federal bayonets would constitute the sole guaranty of the security of their persons
and property.

The other course is not only practicable, but humane and expedient. During his whole career,
Brigham Young committed no greater mistake than when he settled in Utah a community whose recruits
are almost without exception drawn from foreign lands; for, since the removal from Illinois,
every attempt to propagate Mormonism in the American States has been a failure. Every avenue
of communication with Utah is necessarily obstructed. No railroad penetrates to within eleven
hundred miles of Salt Lake Valley. There is no watercourse within four hundred miles, on which
navigation is practicable. Neither the Columbia nor the Colorado empties into seas bordered
by nations from which the Mormons derive accessions; and the length of a voyage up the Mississippi,
Missouri, and Yellowstone forbids any expectation that their channels will ever become a pathway
to the centre of the continent. The road to Utah must always lead overland, and travel upon
it is the more expensive from the fact that no great passenger-transportation companies exist
at either of the termini. Each family of emigrants must provide its own outfit of provisions,
wagons, and oxen, or mules. Through the agency of what is called the Perpetual Emigration Fund
of the Church, the capital of which amounts to several millions of dollars,--which was instituted
professedly to befriend, but really to fleece the foreign converts,--few Englishmen arrive
at Salt Lake City without having exhausted their own means and incurred an amount of debt which
it requires the labor of many years to discharge. The physical sufferings of the journey, also,
are severe and often fatal. The bleak cemetery at Salt Lake City contains but a small proportion
of the Mormon dead. Along the thousand miles of road from the Missouri River to the Great Lake,
there stand, thicker than milestones, memorials of those who failed on the way. A rough board,
a pile of stones, a grave ransacked by wolves, crown many a swell of the bottom-lands along
the Platte; and across the broad belt of mountains there is no spot so desolate as to be unmarked
by one of these monuments of the march of Mormonism.

As these difficulties of transit subside under the surge of population toward the new State
of Oregon, or to the gold-diggings on the head-waters of the South Fork of the Platte, an element
must permeate Utah which would be fatal to the supremacy of the Church. That depends, as has
been so often repeated, upon isolation. Already the presence of the army with its crowd of
unruly dependents has begun to disturb it. In the trail of the troops, like sparks shed from
a rocket, a legion of mail-stations and trading-posts have sprung up, which materially facilitate
communication with the East. A horseman, starting now from Fort Leavenworth, with a good animal,
can ride to Salt Lake City, sleeping under cover every night; while in July, 1857, when the
army commenced its march from the frontier, there were stretches of more than three hundred
miles without a single white inhabitant. On the west, under the shadow of the Sierra Nevada,
there is a settlement of several thousand Gentiles in Carson Valley, who, though nominally
under the same Territorial government with the Mormons, have no real connection with them,
politically, socially, or commercially, and are petitioning Congress for a Territorial organisation
of their own. A telegraphic wire has already wound its way over the sierra among them, and
will soon palpitate through Salt Lake City in its progress toward the Atlantic.

Brigham Young perceives this inevitable advance of Christian civilization toward his stronghold,
as clearly as the most unprejudiced spectator. No one is better aware than himself, that, if
the great industrial conception of the age, the Pacific Railroad, shall ever begin to be realized,
the first shovelful of dirt thrown on its embankments will be the commencement of the grave
of his religion and authority. Among the projects with which his brain is busy is that of yet
another exodus; and it must be undertaken speedily, if at all,--for a generation is growing
up in the Church with an attachment for the land in which it was reared. The pioneers of the
faith, who were buffeted from Ohio to Missouri, from Missouri to Illinois, and from Illinois
to the Rocky Mountains, are dwindling every year. Their migrations have been so various, that
no local sentiment would influence them against another removal. Such a sentiment, if it exists
at all among them, is not for Utah, but for Missouri, where they believe that the capital will
be founded of that kingdom in which the Church in the progress of ages will unite the world.
They dropped upon the shores of the Salt Lake in 1847, like birds spent upon the wing, only
because they could not fly farther.

Two regions have been suggested for the ultimate resort of the Mormons: one, the Mosquito Coast
in Central America; the other, the Island of Papua or New Guinea, among the East Indies. During
the winter, while the army lay encamped at Fort Bridger, Colonel Kinney, the colonizing adventurer,
endeavored to communicate from the East to Brigham Young an offer to sell to the Church several
millions of acres of land on the Mosquito Coast, of which he purports to be the proprietor.
His agent, however, reached no farther than Green River. But during the spring of 1858, other
agents, dispatched from California, were more successful in reaching Salt Lake Valley. They
were hospitably received by the Mormons, but Young declined to enter into the negotiation.
The other scheme--that for an emigration to Papua--originated at Washington during the same
winter. It was eagerly seized upon by Captain Walter Gibson, the same who was once imprisoned
by the Dutch in Java. He put himself into communication on the subject with Mr. Bernhisel,
the Mormon delegate to Congress, who appeared to regard the plan with favor. After it was developed,
as a step preliminary to transmitting it to Utah for consideration, Mr. Bernhisel waited upon
the President of the United States in order to ascertain whether the cooperation of the National
Government in the undertaking could be expected. The reply of Mr. Buchanan was fatal to the
project, which he discountenanced as a vague and wild dream.

Nevertheless, it may well be considered whether the movement toward Utah appeared any less
Quixotic in 1846 than does the idea of an emigration to Papua now. On that island the Mormons
would encounter no such obstacles to material prosperity as their indomitable industry has
already conquered in Utah. They would find a fertile soil, a propitious climate, and a native
population which could be trained to docility. Transplanted thither, they would cease to be
a nuisance to America, and would become benefactors to the world by opening to commerce a region
now valueless to Christendom, but of as great natural capacities as any portion of the globe.
The expense of their migration need not exceed the amount already expended upon the Army of
Utah, together with that necessary to maintain it in its present position for the next five
years. Into the seats which they would relinquish on the border of the Salt Lake a sturdy population
would pour from the Valley of the Mississippi, and develop an intelligent, Christian, and Republican
State. That portion of the Mormons which would not follow the fortunes of the Church beyond
the seas would soon become submerged, and the last vestige of its religion and peculiar domestic
life would disappear speedily and forever from the continent.

For that consummation, every genuine Christian must fervently pray. If the Message in the Book
of Mormon be, as one of its own Apostles has asserted, indeed "such, that, if false, none who
persist in believing it can be saved," the sooner this nation washes its hands of responsibility
for its toleration, the better for its credit in history. The Constitution, to be sure, denies
to Congress the power to pass laws prohibiting the free exercise of religion; but it is the
most monstrous nonsense to argue that the Federal Government is bound thereby to connive at
polygamy, perjury, incest, and murder. There are principles of social order which constitute
the political basis of every state in Christendom, that are violated by the practices of the
Mormon Church, and which this Republic is bound to maintain without regard to any pretence
that their transgressors act in pursuance of religious belief. Thirty years ago, no other doctrine
would have occurred to the mind of an American statesman. It is only the special-pleadings
and constitutional hair-splittings by which Slavery has been forced under national protection,
that now impede Congressional intervention in the affairs of Utah. The Christian Church of
the United States, also, has a duty to perform toward the Mormons, which has long been neglected.
While its missionaries have been shipped by the score to India and China, it has been blind
to the growth, upon the threshold of its own temple, of a pagan religion more corrupt than
that of the Brahmin. Never once has a Christian preacher opened his lips in the valleys of
Utah; and yet the surplice of a Christian priest would be a sight more portentous to the Mormon,
on his own soil, than the bayonet of the Federal soldier.

BULLS AND BEARS.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER XXIV.

The next day, Monroe went with the artist to good Mr. Holworthy, and proposed to undertake
the task of instructing a school. The preliminaries were speedily arranged: he was to receive
a small weekly stipend, enough, with prudence, to meet his household expenses, and was to commence
at once. Both of the gentlemen accompanied him to the quarter where his labor was to begin.
A large room was hired in a rickety and forlorn-looking house; the benches for the scholars
and a small desk and chair were the only furniture. And such scholars!--far different from
the delicate, curled darlings of the private schools. The new teacher found his labor sufficiently
discouraging. It was nothing less than the civilization of a troop of savages. Everything was
to be done; manners, speech, moral instincts, were all equally depraved. They were to be taught
neatness, respect, truth-telling, as well as the usual branches of knowledge. It was like the
task of the pioneer settler in the wilderness, who must uproot trees, drain swamps, burn briers
and brambles, exterminate hurtful beasts, and prepare the soil for the reception of the seeds
that are to produce the future harvest. We leave him with his charge, while we attend to other
personages of our story.

Mr. Sandford and his sister, upon leaving their house, took lodgings, and then began to cast
about them for the means of support. The money on which he had relied was gone. His credit
was utterly destroyed, and he had no hope of being reinstated in his former position. The only
way he could possibly be useful in the street was by becoming a curbstone broker, a go-between,
trusted by neither borrower nor lender, and earning a precarious livelihood by commissions.
Even in that position he felt that he should labor under disadvantages, for he knew that his
course had been universally condemned. It was a matter of every-day experience for him to meet
old acquaintances who looked over him, or across the street, or in at shop-windows, to avoid
recognition. And the half-patronizing, half-contemptuous nods he did receive were far worse
to bear than downright cuts.

To a man out of employment, proscribed, marked, there is nothing so terrible as the impenetrability
of the close ranks of society around him. Every busy man seems to have found his place; each
locks step with his neighbor, and the vast procession moves on. Once out of the serried order,
the unhappy wretch can never resume his position. He finds himself the fifth wheel of a coach;
there is nothing for him to do,--no place for him at the bountiful board where others are fed.
He may starve or drown himself, as he likes; the world has no use for him, and will not miss
him. What Sandford felt, as he walked along the streets, may well be imagined. If he had not
been supported by the indomitable courage and assurance of his sister, he would have sunk to
the level of a pauper.

One day, as he was passing a church, his eye was caught by a placard at the door, inviting,
in bold letters, "friend, stranger, or traveller to enter, if but for a few minutes." It was
a "business-men's prayer-meeting." The novelty of the idea struck him; he was at leisure; he
had no notes to pay; anybody might fail, for aught he cared. He went in, and, to his surprise,
saw, among the worshippers, scores of his old friends, engaged in devotion. Like himself, they
had, many of them, failed, and, after the loss of all temporal wealth, had turned their attention
to the "more durable riches." He fell into a profound meditation, from which he did not recover
until the meeting ended.

The next day he returned, and the day following, also,--taking a seat each time a little nearer
the desk, until at last he reached the front row of benches, where he was to be seen at every
service. It is not necessary to speculate upon his motives, or to conjecture how far he deceived
himself in his professions,--if, indeed, there was any deception in the case. Let him have
the benefit of whatever doubt there may be. The leading religious men hoped, without feeling
any great confidence; the world, especially the business world, mocked and derided.

But piety, in itself, however heartfelt, does not clothe or feed its possessor, and Mr. Sandford,
even with that priceless gift, must find some means of supplying his temporal wants. His new
friends had plenty of advice for him, and some of them would have been glad to furnish him
with employment; but none of them were so well satisfied with the sincerity of his conversion
as to trust him far. It was not to be wondered, after his exploits on the day of his failure,
that there should be a reasonable shyness on the part of those who had money which they could
not afford or did not choose to give away. It was quite remarkable to see the change produced
when the subject was introduced. Faces, that a few minutes before had shone with tearful joy
or rapturous aspirations, full of brotherly affection, would suddenly cool, and contract, and
grow severe, when Sandford broached the one topic that was nearest to him. He found that there
was no way of escaping from the law of compensation by appropriating the results of other men's
labors,--that religion (very much to his disappointment) gave him no warrant to live in idleness;
therefore he was fain to do what he could for himself. He tried to act as a curb-stone broker,
as an insurance agent, as an adjuster of marine losses and averages, as an itinerant solicitor
for a life-insurance company, as an accountant, and in various other situations. All in vain.
He was shunned like an escaped convict; the motley suit itself would hardly have added to his
disgrace. No one put faith in him or gave him employment,--save in a few instances, for charity's
sake. Few men can brave a city; and Sandford, certainly, was not the man to do it. The scowling,
or suspicious, or contemptuous, pitying glances he encountered smote him as with fiery swords.
He quailed; he cowered; he dropped his eyes; he acquired a stooping, shambling gait. The man
who feels that he is looked down upon grows more diminutive in his own estimation, until he
shrinks into the place which the world assigns him. So Sandford shrunk, until he crept through
the streets where once he had walked erect, and earned a support as meagre and precarious as
the more brazen-faced and ragged of the great family of mendicants, to which he was gravitating.

Mendicants,--an exceeding great army! They do not all knock at area-doors for old clothes and
broken victual, nor hold out hats at street-crossings, nor expose sharp-faced babies to win
pity, nor send their infant tatterdemalions to torture the ears of the wealthy with scratchy
fiddles and wheezing accordions. No, these plagues of society are only the extreme left wing;
the right wing is a very respectable class in the community. The party-leader who makes his
name and influence serve him in obtaining loans which he never intends to pay,--shall we call
him a beggar? It is an ugly word. The parasite who makes himself agreeable to dinner-givers,
who calculates upon his accomplishments as a stock in trade, intending that his brains shall
feed his stomach,--what is he, pray? It is ungracious to stigmatize such a jolly dog. The woman
whose fingers are hooped with rings won in wagers which gallantry or folly could not decline,
who is ready by philopaena, or even by more direct suggestions, to lay every beau or acquaintance
under contribution,--is she a beggar, too? It is a long way, to be sure, from the girl with
scanty and draggled petticoat and tangled hair, picking out lumps of coal from ash-heaps, or
carrying home refuse from the tables of the rich,--a long way from that squalid object to the
richly-cloaked, furred, bonneted, jewelled, flaunting lady, whose friends are all so kind.

But the most charitable must feel a certain degree of pity, if not of scorn, for those who,
like Mr. and Miss Sandford, contrive to wear the outward semblance of respectability, boarding
with fashionable people and wearing garments à la mode, while they have neither fortune nor
visible occupation. Miss Sandford, to be sure, had a few pupils in music,--young friends, who,
as she averred, "insisted upon practising with her, although she did not profess to give lessons,"
not she. Still her toilet was as elegant as ever. The first appearance of a new style of cloak,
a new pattern of silk or embroidery, new ribbons, laces, jewelry, might be observed, as she
took her morning promenade. The dealers in rich goods, elegant trifles, costly nothings, all
knew her well. Whatever satisfied her artistic taste she purchased. To see was to desire, and,
in some way, all she coveted tended by a magical attraction to her rooms. "Society" frowned
upon her; she went to no receptions in the higher circles, but she had no lack of associates
for all that. At concerts and other public assemblages, her brilliant figure and irreproachable
costume were always to be seen,--the admiration of men, the envy of women. Nor was she without
gallants. Gentlemen flocked about her, and seemed only too happy in her smiles; but it never
happened that their wives or sisters joined in their attentions. On fine days, as she came
out for a walk, she was sure to be accompanied by some person whose dress and manners marked
him as belonging to the wealthy classes; and at such times it generally happened,--according
to the scandal-loving shopkeepers,--that the last new book, the little "love" of a ring, or
the engraved scent-bottle was purchased.

An odd affair is Society. At its outposts are flaming swords for women, though invisible to
other eyes; men can venture without the lines, if they only return at roll-call. Let a woman
receive or visit one of the demi-monde, (the technical use of the word is happily inapplicable
here,) and she might as well earn her living by her own labor, or do any other disreputable
thing; but her brother may pay court to the most doubtful, and mothers will only shake their
heads and say, "He must sow his wild oats; he'll get over all that by-and-by."

So the beauty was still queen in her circle, and found admirers in plenty. Perhaps she even
enjoyed the freedom; for, to a woman of spirit, the constraints of taboo must be irksome at
times. Not the Brahmin, who fears to tread upon sole-leather from the sacred cow, and dares
not even think of the flavor of her forbidden beef, who keeps himself haughtily aloof from
the soldier and the trader, and walks sunward from the pariah, lest the polluting shadow fall
on his holy person, has a more difficult and engrossing occupation than the woman of fashion,
in a country where the distinctions of rank are so purely factitious as in ours. Miss Sandford's
time was now her own; she was accountable to no supervisor. Her brother was a cipher. He did
not venture to intrude upon her, except at seasons when she was at leisure, and in a humor
to be bored by him. Perhaps she looked back regretfully, but, as far as could be told by her
manner, she carried herself proudly, with the air of one who says,--

  "Better reign in hell than serve in heaven."

The observant reader has doubtless wondered before this, that Mr. Sandford did not, in his
emergency, apply to his old clerk, Fletcher, for the money in exchange for the peculiar obligation
of which mention has been made. It is presuming too much upon Mr. Sandford's stupidity to suppose
that the idea had not frequently occurred to him. But he was satisfied that Fletcher was one
of the few who were making money in this time of general distress, and that with every day's
acquisition the paper became more valuable; therefore, as it was his last trump, he preferred
to play it when it would sweep the board; and he was willing to live in any way until the proper
time came. Not so easy was Fletcher. Several times he attempted to pay the claim, so that he
could once more hold his head erect as a free man. But Sandford smiled blandly; "he was in
no hurry," he said; "Mr. Fletcher evidently had money, and was good for the amount." Poor Fletcher!--walking
about with a rope around his neck,--a long rope now, and slack,--but held by a man who knows
not what pity means!

CHAPTER XXV.

Greenleaf pursued his search for Alice with all the ardor of his nature. One glimpse only he
had of her;--at a clothing-store, where he inquired, the clerk seemed to recognize the description
given, and was quite sure that such a girl had taken out work, but he knew nothing of her whereabouts,
and he believed she was now employed by another establishment. It was something to know that
she was in the city, and, probably, not destitute; still better to know what path of life she
had chosen, so that his time need not be wasted in fruitless inquiries. On his return, after
the second day's search, he sought his friend Easelmann, whose counsel and sympathy he particularly
desired.

"Any tidings of the fugitive?" was the first question.

"No," replied Greenleaf,--"nothing satisfactory. I have heard of her once; but it was like
a trail in the woods, which the hunter comes upon, then loses utterly."

"But the hunter who measures a track once will be likely to find it again."

"Yes, I have that consolation. But, Easelmann, though this mishap of losing Alice has cost
me many sleepless nights, and will continue to engross my time until I find her, I cannot rid
myself of other troubles and apprehensions. I have done nothing for a long time. I have no
orders; and, as I have no fortune to fall back upon, I see nothing but starvation before me."

"Then, my dear fellow, look the other way. It isn't wise to distress yourself by looking ahead,
so long as you have the chance of turning round."

"I feel lonely, too,--isolated. People that I meet are civil enough; but I don't know a man,
except in my profession, that I can consider a friend."

"Very likely. Caste isn't confined to India."

"I had supposed that intellect and culture were enough to secure for a man a recognition in
good society; but I am made to feel, a hundred times a day, that I have no more status than
a clever colored man, an itinerant actor, or any other anomaly. To-day I met Travis; you know
he comes here and makes himself free and easy with us, and has always put himself on a footing
of equality."

"Wherein you made a mistake. He has no right, but by courtesy, to any equality. A little taste,
perhaps, and money enough to gratify it,--that's all. He never had an idea in his life."

"That is the reason I felt the slight. He was walking with a lady whose manner and dress were
unmistakable,--a lady of undoubted position. I bowed, and received in return one of those hardly-perceptible
nods, with a forced smile that covered only the side of his face from the lady. It was a recognition
that one might throw to his boot-black. I am a mild-mannered man, as you know; but I could
have murdered him on the spot."

Greenleaf walked the floor with flashing eyes and his teeth set.

"Now, I like the spirit," said Easelmann; "but, pray, be sensible. 'Where Macdonald sits, there
is the head of the table.' Stand firm in your own shoes, and graduate your bows by those you get."

"I suppose I am thin-skinned."

"As long as you are, you will chafe. Cultivate a hide like a rhinoceros's, and Society will
let fly its pin-pointed arrows in vain. You have a great deal to learn, my dear boy."

"But other special classes are not so treated,--literary men, for instance."

"Don't be too sure of that. An author who has attained position is fêted, because the fashionable
circles must have their lions. But to stand permanently like other men, he must have money
or family, or else obey the world's ten commandments, of which the first is, 'Thou shalt not
wear a slouched hat,'--and the rest are like unto it. No,--the literary men have their heart-burnings,
I suspect. They forget, as you do, that their very profession, the direction of their thoughts,
their mode of life, cut them off from sympathy and fellowship. What has a writer who dreams
of rivalling Emerson or the 'Autocrat' to do with costly and absorbing private theatricals,
with dances at Papanti's, with any of the thousand modes of killing time agreeably? And how
shall you become the new Claude, if you give your thoughts to the style of your clothes, and
to the inanities that make up the staple of conversation?"

"But because I am precluded from devoting my time to society, that is no reason why I should
bear the patronizing airs"----

"Don't be patronized,--that's all. If a man gives you such a look as you have described, cut
him dead the next time you meet him. If anybody gives you two fingers to shake, give him only
one of yours. I tried that plan on a doctor of divinity once, and it worked admirably. His
intended condescension somehow vanished in a mist, and the foolish confusion that overspread
his blank features would have done you good to behold."

"I have no doubt. I don't think it would be easy to be impertinent to you. Not that there are
not presuming people enough; but you have a way with you. Your blade that cuts off a bayonet
at a blow will glide through a feather as well."

"A delicate stroke of yours! Now to return. You are out of money, you say. Perhaps you will
allow me to become your creditor for a while. I may presume upon the relation and take on some
airs;--that's inevitable; one can't forego such a privilege;--but I promise to bow very civilly
whenever I meet you; and I won't remind you of the debt--above twice a day."

Taking out his pocket-book, he handed his friend fifty dollars, and pshawed and poohed at every
expression of gratitude.

"By the way, Greenleaf," he continued, "I have been in search of an absconding female also.
You remember Mrs. Sandford, the charming widow?"

"Yes,--what has become of her?"

"You see how philosophical I am. I have not seen her yet; and yet I am not crazy about it.
Some chickens think the sky is falling, whenever a rose-leaf drops on their heads."

"But you have no such reason to be anxious."

"Haven't I? Do you think old fellows like me have lost recollection as well as feeling? One
of the most deadly cases of romance I ever knew was between people of forty and upwards."

"How dull I was! I saw some rather odd glances between you at the musical party, but thought
nothing more about it. But why haven't you been looking for her?"

"I have been cogitating," said Easelmann, twisting his moustaches.

"I should think so. If you had asked me, now! I went with her to the house where I suppose
she is still boarding."

"Did you?" [very indifferently, and with the falling inflection.]

"Why, don't you want to know?"

"Yes,--to-morrow. And I think, that, when we find her, we may find a clue to your Alice."

Greenleaf started up as if he had been galvanized.

"You have seen her, then! You old fox! Where is she? To-morrow, indeed! Tell me, and I will fly."

"You can't; for, as Brother Chadband observed, you haven't any wings."

"Don't trifle with me. I know your fondness for surprises; but if you love me, don't put me
off with your nonsense."

Greenleaf was thoroughly in earnest, and Easelmann took a more soothing tone. At another time
the temptation to tease would have been irresistible.

"Be calm, you man of gunpowder, steel, whalebone, and gutta-percha! I positively have nothing
but guesses to give you. Besides, do you think you have nothing to do but rush into Alice's
arms when you find her? Take some valerian to quiet your nerves, and go to bed. In the morning,
try to smooth over those sharp features of yours. Use rouge, if you can't get up your natural
color. When you are presentable, come over here again, and we'll stroll out in search of adventure.
But mind, I promise nothing,--I only guess."

While he spoke, Greenleaf looked into the mirror, and was surprised to see how anxiety had
worn upon him. His face was thin and bloodless, and his eyes sunken, but glowing. The quiet
influence of his friend calmed him, and his impatience subsided. He took his leave silently,
wringing Easelmann's hand, and walked home with a lighter heart.

"He is a good fellow," mused Easelmann, "and has suffered enough for his folly. The lesson
will do him good."

CHAPTER XXVI.

Mr. Bullion was not without good natural impulses, but his education and experience had been
such as to develop only the sharp and selfish traits of his character. An orphan at the age
of eleven years, he was placed in a shop under the charge of a grasping, unscrupulous man,
where he learned the rules of business which he followed afterwards with so much success. The
old-fashioned notions about the Golden Rule he was speedily well rid of; for when his indiscreet
frankness to customers was observed, the rod taught him the folly of untimely truth-telling,
if not the propriety of smoothing the way to a bargain by a glib falsehood. With such training,
he grew up an expert salesman; and before he was of age, after various changes in business,
he became the confidential clerk in a large wholesale house. Owing to unexpected reverses,
the house became embarrassed, and at length failed. The head of the firm went back to his native
town a broken-hearted man, and not long afterwards died, leaving his family destitute. But
Bullion, with a junior partner, settled with the creditors, kept on with the business, and
prospered. Perhaps, if the widow had received what was rightfully hers, the juniors would have
had a smaller capital to begin upon,--Bullion knew; but the account, if there was one, was
past settlement by human tribunals, and had gone upon the docket in the great Court of Review.

Wealth grows like the banian, sending down branches that take root on all sides in the thrifty
soil, and then become trunks themselves, and the parents of ever-increasing boughs,--a sturdy
forest in breadth, a tree in unity. So Bullion grew and flourished. At the time of our story
he was rich enough to satisfy any moderate ambition; but he wished to rear a colossal fortune,
and the operations he was now concerned in were fortunate beyond his expectations. But he was
not satisfied. He conceived the idea of carrying on the same stock-speculation in New York
on a larger scale, and made an arrangement with one of the leading "bears" of that city; but
he was careful to keep this a secret, most of all from Fletcher and others of his associates
at home. Fortune favored him, as usual, and he promised himself a success that would make him
a monarch in the financial world. Under the excitement of the moment, he had filled the baby
hands of Fletcher's child with gold pieces. It was as Fletcher said; his head was fairly turned
by the glittering prospect before him.

The associate in New York proposed to Bullion the purchase of a controlling interest in a railroad;
and Bullion, believing that the depression had nearly reached its limit, and that affairs would
soon take a turn, agreed that it was best now to change their policy, and to buy all the shares
in this stock that should be offered while the price was low, and keep them as an investment.
He felt sure that he with the New York capitalist had now money enough to "swing" all the shares
in market, and they each agreed to purchase all that should be brought to the hammer in their
respective cities. Following up his promise faithfully, Bullion bought all the stock of the
railroad that came into State Street, and in this way rapidly exhausted his ready money. Then
he raised loans upon his other property, and still kept the market clear. But he wondered that
so many shares came to Boston for sale; for the railroad was in a Western State, and few of
the original holders were New England men.

Bullion now met the first check in his career. Kerbstone, whose appeals for help he had disregarded,
and whose property had been wofully depreciated by the course of the "bears," of whom Bullion
was chief, failed for a large sum. As he was treasurer of the Neversink Mills, the stockholders
and creditors of that corporation made an immediate investigation of its accounts. Kerbstone
was found to be a defaulter to the amount of hundreds of thousands of dollars; the property
was gone,--undermined like a snow-bank in spring. The largest owner was Bullion. He was overreached
by his own shrewdness; and the hitherto unlucky "bulls," who had had small cause to laugh,
thought that it was

    "sport to see the engineer
  Hoist with his own petard,"--

better even than to have tossed him on their own horns.

Bullion made some wry faces; but the loss, though great, was not ruinous. He was obliged, however,
to take back the shares of the factory-stock on which he had obtained loans for his New York
operations, and to substitute an equal amount of other securities,--thus cramping his resources
at a time when he needed every dollar to carry out his vast plans.

In the multiplicity of his affairs, Bullion had almost forgotten Fletcher, and left him to
pursue his own course. But there was a man who had not forgotten him, and who followed all
his movements with vigilant eyes. Sandford was convinced that Fletcher had in some way become
prosperous, and he now advanced to use the peculiar note as a draft on the miserable debtor's
funds. There was the same wily approach, the same covert allusion to Fletcher's supposed resources,
the same peremptory demand, and the same ugly threat which had so desperately maddened him
when the subject was broached before. Fletcher felt the tightening of the lasso, but could
not free himself from the fatal noose. He must pay whatever the cold-eyed creditor demanded.
Two thousand dollars was the sum asked for the acknowledgment of having appropriated five hundred.
Twopence for halfpenny has been accounted fair usury among the Jews; but in Christian communities
it is only crime that accumulates interest like that.

As a measure of precaution, Sandford had made a copy of the paper and prepared an explanatory
statement; these he now inclosed in an envelope, in Fletcher's presence, and directed it to
Messrs. Foggarty, Danforth, and Dot. Then drawing out his watch, as if to make a careful computation
of time, he said,--

"Nine, ten, eleven,--yes,--at eleven, to-morrow, I shall expect to receive the sum; otherwise
I shall feel it my duty to send this letter by a trusty hand. In fact, I suppose I have hardly
done right in not putting the gentlemen on their guard before."

A cold sweat covered Fletcher's shivering limbs, and for a moment he stood irresolute; but
recollecting Bullion, he rallied himself, and, assenting to the proposition, bade Sandford
good-bye; then, as the only revenge practicable, he cursed him with the heartiest emphasis,
when his back was turned. Presently Tonsor came with the news of Kerbstone's failure.

"The street is full of rumors," he said;--"Bullion is a large owner in the Neversink."

"Bosh!" said Fletcher,--"Bullion is in there for fifty thousand, to be sure; but what is that?
He has other property enough,--half a million, at least."

"Still, a pebble brought down Goliath. A house in New York, worth a million, failed yesterday
for want of twenty-five thousand."

"Don't you be alarmed. Bullion knows. He isn't going to fail."

"I want to get ten thousand from him to take some shares I bought for him."

"How soon?"

"Now; and he is not at his office."

"I'll get you the money from our house. I haven't deposited the funds for to-day yet, and I'll
put in a memorandum which Bullion will make good."

"Hadn't you better wait?"

"No; it doesn't matter. He's all right; and it isn't best to break his orders for any ten thousand
dollars."

Fletcher handed the money to the broker, and, as bank-hours were then about over, he put his
papers in order and went home.

"Lovey!" he exclaimed, upon meeting his wife, "I have been thinking over what you said about
getting my notes cashed. I believe I'll take Bullion's offer and salt the money down. Probably,
now, he will give me a better trade, for there is considerable more due."

"Oh, John! how glad I am! You will do it to-morrow,--won't you, now?"

"Yes, I'll settle with him to-morrow."

He was thinking of the fact that Tonsor had bought shares for Bullion, and he wondered what
the move meant. A house divided against itself could not stand; and he said to himself, that
a man must be uncommonly deep to be a "bull" and a "bear" at the same time. There was no doubt
that Bullion had embarked in some speculation which he had not seen fit to make known to his agent.

"There you go,--off into one of your fogs again!" said the wife, noticing his suddenly abstracted
air. "That's the way you have done for the last three months,--ever since you began with that
hateful man."

"I get to thinking about affairs, my little woman, and I don't want to bother your simple head
with them; so I go cruising off in the fog, as you call it, by myself."

"Oh, if you once get through with that man's affairs, we'll have no more fogs!"

"No, deary, we'll have summer weather and a smooth sea, I hope, for the rest of our voyage."

"You see, John, I have been dreadfully anxious, more than I could tell you. If anything goes
wrong, I've always noticed that it isn't the big people that have to suffer; it's the smaller
ones that get caught."

"Yes, it's an old story; the big flies break out of the spider's net; the little chaps hang
there. But I'll settle up the business to-morrow. I shall have enough to buy us a little house
in the country,--a snug box, with a garden; then I'll get a horse to drive about with, and
we'll take some comfort. Come, little woman, sit on my knee! Come, baby, here is a knee for
you, too!"

Holding them in his arms, he still mused upon the morrow, and once and again charged his mind
to remember "two thousand for Sandford, ten thousand for Danforth and Dot!"

CHAPTER XXVII.

Alice did not feel the utter loneliness of her situation, until, as she walked along, square
after square, she encountered so many hundreds of abstracted or curious or impudent faces,
and reflected that it was upon such people that her future support and comfort would depend.
She tried to discover in some countenance the impress of kindly benevolence;--not that she
proposed to risk so much as a question; but it was her first experience with the busy world,
and she wished to observe its ways, when neither relationship nor personal interest was involved.
Small encouragement she would have felt to approach any that she met. Men of middle-age walked
by as in dreams, cold, unobservant, listless; the younger ones, fuller of life, strode on with
high heads, and flinging glances that were harder to bear than stony indifference, even. Ladies
clothed in costly furs scanned the pretty face under the mourning bonnet with prying eyes,
or tossed her a hasty, scornful look. Shop-girls giggled and stared. Boys rushed by, rudely
jostling every passenger. Old women in scanty petticoats that were fringed by no dressmaker,
with pinched faces and watery eyes, looked imploringly and hobbled along, wrapping parcels
of broken victual under their faded shawls.--A sorry world Alice thought it. In the country,
she had been used to receive a kindly bow or a civil "Good-morning!" from every person she
met; and the isolation of the individual in the city was to her something unnatural, even appalling.

She had cut out some boarding-house advertisements from the daily papers, and her first care
was to find a home suited to her slender means. Reaching the door of the first on her list,
she rang and was shown into a small drawing-room, shabby-genteel in its furniture and ornaments.
Two seamstresses sat chattering around the centre-table; while a ruddy young man, with greenish
brown moustaches and sandy hair, rested his clumsy boots on the fender, holding an open music-book
in his lap and a flute in his ill-kept and gaudily-ringed hands. The kitchen, apparently, was
not ventilated; and a mingled odor, beyond the analysis of chemistry, came up into the entry
and pervaded the hot and confined atmosphere of the room. The landlady, a stout and resolute
woman, entered with a studied smile, which changed gradually to a cold civility. Her eyes,
unlike Banquo's, had a deal of speculation in them. One might read the price-current in the
busy wrinkles. Around her pursed-up mouth lurked the knowledge of the number of available slices
in a sirloin,--the judgment of the lump of butter that should leave no margin for prodigality.
Warfare with market-men, shrewish watchfulness over servants, economy scarcely removed from
meanness at the table, all were clearly indicated in her flushed and hard-featured face.

Alice was not familiar with such people; but she shrank from her by instinct, as the first
chicken fled from the first hawk. The landlady, on her part, was equally suspicious, and, finding
that Alice had no relatives to depend upon, and that she expected to earn her own living, was
not at all solicitous to increase the number of her boarders.

"It's pootty hard to tell who's who, now-a-days," she said. "I have to pay cash for all I set
on the table, and I can't trust to fair promises. Perhaps, though, you've got some cousin that
looks arter your bills?"

The flute-player exchanged knowing glances with the seamstresses.

All-unconscious of the taunt, Alice simply replied,--

"No, I have told you that I have no one to depend upon."

The landlady's mouth was primly set, and she merely exclaimed,--

"Oh! indeed!"

"I think I'll look further," said Alice. "Good-morning."

"Good-morning."

Half-suppressed chuckles followed her, as she left the room. Sorely grieved and indignant,
she took her way to another house. Fortune this time favored her. The landlady, a kind-hearted
woman, was in mourning for her only daughter, and with the first words she heard she felt her
heart drawn to the lovely and soft-voiced stranger. Without any offensive inquiries, Alice
was at once received, and an upper room assigned to her. After sending for her trunk, she dressed
for dinner.

The table presented specimens of all the familiar characters of boarding-house life. There
was the lawyer, sharp, observant, talkative, ready for a joke or an argument. There was the
solemn man of business, who ate from a sense of duty, and scowled at the lawyer's bad puns.
Near him, with an absurdly youthful wig and opaque goggles, sat the Unknown; his name, occupation,
resources, and tastes alike a profound mystery. Several dapper clerks, whose right ears drooped
from having been used as pen-racks, wearing stunning cravats, outré brooches and shirt-studs,
learned in the lore of "two-forty" driving, were ranged opposite. Then there was the jolly
widow, who was the admiration of men of her own age, but who cruelly gave all her smiles to
the boys with newly-sprouting chins. Near her sat the fastidious man, whose nostrils curled
ominously when any stain appeared on his napkin, or when anything sullied the virgin purity
of his own exclusive fork. His spectacles seemed to serve as microscopes, made for the sole
purpose of detecting some fatal speck invisible to other eyes. There was the singer, with a
neck like a swan's, bowing with the gracious air that is acquired in the acknowledgment of
bouquets and bravas. The artist was her vis-à-vis, powerful like Samson in his bushy locks,
negligent with fore-thought, wearing a massive seal-ring, and fragrant with the perfume of
countless pipes. The nice old maid near him turns away in disgust when she sees his moustaches
draggle in the soup.

Down the long row of faces Alice looked timidly, and at length fastened her eyes upon a lady
in mourning like herself. There is no physiognomist like the frank, affectionate young man
or woman who looks to find appreciation and sympathy. It is not necessary, for such a purpose,
to speculate upon Grecian or Roman noses, thin or protruding lips, blue, gray, or brown eyes;
each soul knows its own sphere and the people that belong in it; and a sure instinct or prescience
guides us in our choice of friends. Alice at a glance became conscious of an affinity, and
quietly waited till circumstances should bring her into associations with the woman whom she
hoped to make a friend.

It was not long before the occasion came. Not to make any mystery, it was our old acquaintance,
Mrs. Sandford, who attracted the gaze of Alice, and who soon became her kindly adviser. Never
was there a more motherly woman; and, as she was now almost a stranger in the house, she attached
herself to Alice with a warmth and an unobtrusive solicitude that quite won the girl's heart.
Alice lost no time in procuring such work from a tailor as she felt competent to do, and applied
herself diligently to her task; but a very short trial convinced her, that, at the "starvation
prices" then paid for needlework, she should not be able to earn even her board. Then came
in the thoughtful friend, who, after gently drawing out the facts of the case, furnished her
with sewing on which she could display her taste and skill. Day after day new employment came
through the same kind hands, until Alice wondered how one wearer could want such a quantity
of the various nameless, tasteful articles in which all women feel so much pride. It was not
until long after, that she learned how the work had been procured by her friend's active, but
noiseless agency.

Not many days after their intimacy commenced, as Mrs. Sandford sat watching Alice at her work,
it occurred to her that there was a look of tender sorrow, an unexplained melancholy, which
her recent bereavement did not wholly account for. Not that the girl was given to romantic
sighs or tragic starts, or that she carried a miniature for lachrymose exercises; but it was
evident that she had what we term "a history." She was frank and cheerful, although there was
palpably something kept back, and her cheerfulness was like the mournful beauty of flowers
that blossom over graves. No sympathetic nature could refuse confidence to Mrs. Sandford, and
it was not long before she discovered that Alice had passed through the golden gate to which
all footsteps tend, and from which no one comes back except with a change that colors all the
after life.

"And so you are in love, poor child!" said Mrs. Sandford, compassionately.

"I have been" (with a gentle emphasis).

"Ah, you think you are past it now, I suppose?"

"I sha'n't forget soon,--I could not, if I would; but love is over,--gone like yesterday's
sunshine."

"But the sun shines again to-day."

"Well, if you prefer another comparison," said Alice, smiling faintly,--"gone out like yesterday's
fire."

"Fire lurks a long time in the ashes unseen, my dear."

Alice dropped her needle and looked steadily at her companion.

"I am young," she said; "yet I have outgrown the school-girl period. The current of my life
has flowed in a deep channel: the shallow little brook may fancy its first spring-freshet to
be a Niagara; but my feelings have swelled with no transient overflow. I gave my utmost love
and devotion to a man I thought worthy. He treated me with neglect, and at last falsified his
word in offering his hand to another, I do not hate him. I have none of that alchemy which
changes despised love to gall. But I could never forgive him, nor trust him again. And if he,
who seemed always so frank, so earnest, so tender, so single in his aims,--if he could not
be trusted, I do not know where I could rest my heart and say,--'Here I am safe, whatever betide!'"

It was a strange thing for Alice to speak in such an exalted strain, and she trembled as she
tried to resume her sewing. The thread slipped and knotted; the needle broke and pricked her
finger; and then, feeling her cheeks begin to glow, she laid down her work and turned to the
window.

"Don't lose all faith, Alice; there are true hearts in the world. Perhaps this lover of yours,
now, has repented and is striving to find you. Or you may have been misinformed as to the extent
of his treachery. To take your own simile, you don't accuse the brook of fickleness merely
because it eddies around under some flowery bank; after it has made the circle, it keeps on
its steady course."

Alice only shook her head, still keeping her face averted to conceal the tremor of her lips.

"But you haven't told me who this man is. How odd it would be, if I knew him!"

"I would rather not have you know. The secret isn't a fatal one, to be sure; but I prefer to
keep it."

Suddenly she stepped back from the window, ashy pale, and gasping hysterically. Mrs. Sandford
rose hastily to assist her, and, as she did so, noticed her old acquaintance, Mr. Greenleaf,
on the opposite sidewalk. She helped Alice to her seat and brought her a glass of water, and,
as she did so, in an instant the long track of the past was illumined as by a flash of lightning.
She saw the reason for Greenleaf's conduct towards her sister-in-law, Marcia. She remembered
his early fascination, his long, vacillating resistance, his brief engagement, and the stormy
scene when it was broken. She had seen the thread of Fate spun for each, without knowing that
invisible strands connected them. She had begun to read a tale of sorrow, but the page was
torn, and now she had finished it upon the chance-found fragment; the irregular and jagged
edges fitted together like mosaic-work.

What a mystery is Truth! A Lie may simulate its form or hue, and, taken by itself, may deceive
the most acute observer. But in the affairs of the world, every fact is related; it meets and
is joined by other facts on every side,--the whole forming an harmonious figure in all its
angles and curves as well as in its gradations of color. Each truth slips easily into its predestined
place; a lie, however trivial, has no place; its angles are belligerent, its colors false;
it makes confusion, and is thrown out as soon as the eye of the Master falls upon it.

Alice revived.

"Did I speak?" she asked.

"No,--you said nothing."

"I am glad. I feared I had been foolish. It was a mere passing faintness."

Mrs. Sandford thought it was the cause of the faintness that was passing, but she prudently
kept her discovery to herself.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Fletcher rose next morning betimes, after a night of fitful and unrefreshing slumber. In his
dreams he had sought Bullion in vain; that substantial person seemed to have become a new Proteus,
and to escape, when nearly overtaken, by taking refuge in some unexpected transformation. Sometimes
the scene changed, and it was the dreamer that was flying, while Sandford, shod with swiftness,
pursued him, swinging a lasso; and as often as the fierce hunter whirled the deadly coil, Fletcher
awoke with a suffocating sensation, and a cold sweat trickling from his forehead. At breakfast,
his wife noticed with intense anxiety his sharpened features and his evident preoccupation
of mind. He hurried off, snatching a kiss from the baby and from the mother who held it, and
walked towards Bullion's office. He knew Bullion was an early riser, and he felt sure of being
able to see him before the usual hour of commencing business. But the office was not even opened;
and, looking through the glass door, he saw that there was no fire in the grate. What was the
meaning of this? Going into the street, he met Tonsor near the post-office. At the first sight
of the broker's face, Fletcher's heart seemed to stop beating.

"Good-morning, Fletcher. Bad business, this! I suppose you've heard. Bullion went to protest
yesterday. Hope you got wind of it in time, and made all safe."

"Bullion failed!" exclaimed Fletcher, through his chattering teeth. "Then I'm a ruined man!"

But a sudden thought struck him, and he asked eagerly,--

"But the money,--haven't you got it still?"

"No,--paid it over yesterday."

"Well, the shares, then?"

"No,--sorry to say, Bullion's clerk came for them not ten minutes before I heard of the protest."

"O God!" groaned the unhappy man, "there is no hope! But you, Mr. Tonsor, you are my friend;
help me out of this! You can raise the money."

"Ten thousand dollars! It's a pretty large sum. I'm afraid I couldn't get it."

"Try, my friend,--you shall never regret it."

Tonsor hesitated, and Fletcher's spirits rose. He watched the broker's composed face with eyes
that might pierce a mummy.

"What is the collateral?" asked Tonsor, slowly raising his wrinkled eyelids.

"Bullion's notes for seventeen thousand dollars."

"And Bullion gone to protest."

"He'll come up again."

"Perhaps; but while he is down, I can't do anything with his paper. The truth is, Fletcher,
you ought not to have advanced the money for him. Remember, I warned you when you were about
to do it."

Fletcher did not look as though he found the "Balm of I-told-you-so" very consoling.

Tonsor continued,--

"Now, if I were in your place, I would go and make a clean breast of it to Danforth. It was
wrong, though I know you didn't mean any harm. He may be angry, but he won't touch you. You
can't raise ten thousand dollars in these times,--not to save your soul."

"Keep your advice, and your money, too," said Fletcher, in sullen despair. "I ask for bread,
and you give me a stone. Your moral lecture won't pay my debts."

He turned away abruptly and went again to Bullion's office. It was still closed. Determined
at all hazards to see the man for whom he had risked so much, he went to his house on Beacon
Hill. The servant said Mr. Bullion was not at home. Fletcher did not believe it, but the door
was closed in his face before he could send a more urgent message, and with a sinking heart
he retraced his steps towards State Street.

The horror of his position was now fully before him. He could not conceal his defalcation,
and there was no longer a shadow of hope of replacing the money. Many a time he had taken the
risk of lending large sums to brokers and others; but who would trust him, a man without estate,
in a time like this? In his terrible anxiety about the new obligation, he had forgotten the
old, until he chanced to observe Sandford on the opposite sidewalk, strolling leisurely towards
the business quarter of the town. The ex-secretary made a barely-perceptible bow, and, drawing
out his watch, significantly turned the face towards his debtor. It was enough; there was no
need of words. It was a little after ten o'clock; the fatal letter would be delivered at eleven!
Fletcher crossed the street and accosted Sandford, though not without trepidation; for he shuddered
like a swimmer within reach of a shark, as he encountered those cold and pitiless eyes.

"Come to the office, Mr. Sandford, at eleven," he said. "The affair will be settled then, and
forever."

Mr. Sandford nodded and walked on. Fletcher, meanwhile, quivering with agony, hurried to his
employer's office. He scanned each face sharply as he entered, and felt sure that the loss
had not yet been discovered. Going to his desk, he wrote and sealed a letter, and then went
out, saying he had some business with a lawyer overhead.

Mrs. Fletcher grew momently more uneasy, after her husband left the house. A vague sense of
coming evil oppressed her, until at length she could bear it no longer; she left her child
with the servant, and, walking to the nearest stand, took a coach for State Street. On the
way she recalled again and again the muttered words she heard during the night; she thought
of the silent, comfortless breakfast, the hurried good-bye; she felt again the pressure of
his trembling lips upon her own. Full of apprehension, she asked the coachman to call her husband
to the door. Answer was made by a clerk that Mr. Fletcher was out on business, but was expected
back presently. So she waited, looking out of the carriage-window,--a sad face to see! The
hands of the Old State-House clock pointed at eleven, when Mr. Sandford punctually made his
appearance,--smooth, cheerful, and with a slight exhilaration, in prospect of the two thousand
dollars. Almost at the same moment Bullion came also; for Tonsor, fearing that Fletcher would
take some desperate step, had been to the surly bankrupt's house and insisted upon his coming
down to see his unfortunate agent. Just at the office-door, and opposite the carriage, met
the two bankrupts, the disgraced "bull" and the vanquished "bear." It was an odd look of recognition
that was exchanged between them; and if there was a shade of triumph in Sandford's face, it
was not to be wondered at. They stood at the door, each motioning the other to enter first,
when an unusual sound from the adjoining entry caused both of them to stop, and one of them,
at least, to shiver. It was a sound of slow and hesitating, shuffling steps, as of men carrying
a burden. The steps came nearer. Both Bullion and Sandford moved hurriedly to the spot. The
men stopped in the doorway with their burden, and in a moment, with frantic shrieks, Mrs. Fletcher
rushed in and fell upon the body of her husband!

"Good God! what's this?" exclaimed Bullion. "Dead?" He stooped down and thrust his hand under
the waistcoat. The heart was still! He shuddered convulsively and drew back, covering his eyes.
"Dead!"

Mr. Sandford seemed frozen to the threshold in speechless horror. There was his debtor, free,--the
old account settled forever! The pallid temples would throb no more; the mobile lips had trembled
their last; the glancing, restless eyes had found a ghastly repose; the slender and shapely
frame, bereft of its active tenant, was limp and unresisting. What a moment for the two men,
as they stood over the corpse of their victim!

Attracted by the unusual outcry, Mr. Danforth came hastily out of the office, and stood, as
it were, transfixed at the sight of the dead. The men who had brought down the body at last
found words to tell their dismal story.

They were at work on the upper floor, when they heard a noise in one of the adjoining rooms;
as the apartment had been for some time unoccupied, they were naturally surprised. After a
while all sounds ceased, and still no one came out to descend the stairs. Appalled by the silence,
they broke open the door, and discovered Fletcher hanging by the neck from a coat-hook; a chair,
overturned, had served as the scaffold from which he had stepped into eternity. They took him
down, but life was already gone. A paper lay on his hat, with these words hastily pencilled
on it:--

"On my desk is a letter that explains all. I'm off. Good-bye.

"JOHN FLETCHER."

Mr. Danforth, hearing this, instantly went into his office, and reappeared, reading a note
addressed to him. Mr. Sandford, meanwhile, was striving to raise the wretched woman to her
feet, and to lead her to the carriage. Mr. Bullion no longer whisked his defiant eyebrow, but
stood downcast, silent, and conscience-stricken.

"Listen a moment," said Mr. Danforth. "Here is a letter from our rash friend, and, as it concerns
you, gentlemen, I will read it. But first, my dear Madam, let me help you into the carriage."

The prostrate woman made no answer, save by a slow rolling of her body,--her sobs continuing
without cessation. The letter was read:--

"MR. DANFORTH,

"To make a payment for shares bought by Mr. Bullion, I borrowed ten thousand dollars from your
house yesterday. Mr. Bullion has failed, and does not protect me. He escapes, and I am left
in the trap. I charge him to pay my wife the notes he owes me. As he hopes to be saved, let
him consider that a debt of honor.

"But my death I lay at Sandford's door. He has followed me with a steady bay, like a bloodhound.
His claim is now settled forever, as I told him. I don't ask God to forgive him;--I don't,
and God won't. Let him live, the cold-blooded wretch that he is; one world or another would
make no difference; for, to a devil like him, there is no heaven, no earth, nothing but hell.

"My poor wife! See to her, if you have any pity for

"JOHN FLETCHER."

"Look," said Mr. Danforth, holding the letter under the stony eyes of Sandford,--"see where
the tears blistered the paper!"

All the while, Mrs. Fletcher kept up an inarticulate moaning, though the sound grew fainter
from exhaustion.

"Let us stop this," said Bullion, seeing the gathering crowd of passers-by. "Better be at home."

Pointing to the still prostrate woman, he, with Mr. Danforth, gently raised her up and placed
her in the carriage. She did not speak, but murmured pleadingly, while her face wore a look
of agonized longing, and her outstretched hands clutched nervously.

"Poor thing!" said Mr. Danforth, his voice beginning to tremble,--"she shall have her dead
husband, if it is any comfort to her."

"That's right," said Bullion,--"carry him off before half-a-dozen coroner-buzzards come to
fight over him."

The body was laid in the carriage, the head she had so often caressed resting in her lap, while
her tears bathed the unconscious face, and her groans became heart-rending. Still holding the
carriage-door, Mr. Danforth turned to Sandford, saying,--

"I don't know what you have done, but his blood is on your soul. I would rather be like him
there, than you, on your feet.--Bullion, I don't mind the ten thousand dollars; but was it
just the manly thing to leave a man that trusted you in this way to be sacrificed? Why didn't
you come down this morning? God forgive you!--Coachman, drive to Carleton Street."

He stepped into the carriage, and away it rolled with its load of sorrow.

Mr. Sandford found the glances of his companion and the bystanders quite uncomfortable, and
he slunk silently away. Failure and disgrace he had met; but this was a position for which
he had not the nerve. The self-accusing Cain was not the only man who has exclaimed, "My punishment
is greater than I can bear." Flight was the only alternative for Sandford. As long as he remained
in Boston, every face seemed to wear a look of condemnation. The mark was set upon him, and
avenging fiends pursued him. That very day he left the city in disguise. Through what trials
he passed will never be known. But destitute, friendless, and broken-spirited, he wandered
from city to city, a vagabond upon the face of the earth. Nor did a sterner retribution long
delay. In New Orleans, he was so far reduced that he was obliged to earn a miserable support
in an oyster-saloon near the levee. One night, a fight began between some drunken boatmen:
and Sandford, though in no way concerned in the affair, received a chance bullet in his forehead,
and fell dead without a word.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Bullion, at last, in spite of his armor of selfishness and stoicism, was touched in a vital
part. His dreams of wealth had vanished into air. The confederate in New York in whom he had
trusted had only made him a dupe. Blindly following out his agreement, he found himself saddled
with a load of railroad-shares, useless for any present purpose, and all his convertible property
gone. The consciousness that he--the man of all others who prided himself upon his sagacity--had
been so easily overreached was quite as humiliating as the idea of ruin itself. He remembered
Kerbstone's appeals, also, and now cursed his own stupidity in refusing to aid him. There he
had overreached himself; it was his own stocks which he had thrown down to the "bears." And
now, heaviest stroke of all, Fletcher, his intrepid and chivalrous agent, who had stepped into
the breach for him, had paid for his indiscretion with his life. The thought gave him a pang
he had never felt, not even when he followed his wife to the grave. Homeward he went, but slowly
and almost without volition. He recognized no acquaintances that he met, but walked on abstractedly,
fixing his eyes on vacancy with a look as mournful as his iron features could wear. In his
ears still rang those thrilling cries. His hand, that had groped over that motionless heart,
still felt a creeping chill; it would not warm. And constantly an accusing voice asked, "Why
didn't you come down?"--and conscience repeated the question in tones like those of a judge
arraigning a criminal. He reached his house and gave orders that no one should be admitted.
In his room he passed the day alone, drifting on an ocean of remorse, full of vague purposes
of repentance and restitution. Dinner passed unheeded, and still he paced the silent chamber.
With the approach of evening his terrors increased; he rang for a servant and had the gas-burners
lighted. Still, in all the blaze, shapes would haunt him; they crouched at the foot of his
bed; they lurked behind his wardrobe-door. He dared not look over his shoulder, but forced
himself to stand up and face what he so dreaded to see. He rang again and bade the servant
bring a screw-driver and take down the coat-hooks from the wardrobe; the garments hanging there
seemed to be men struggling in the agonies of asphyxia. The slender thread of sound from the
gas-burners seemed to be changed to low, mournful cries, as of a woman over the dead. He turned
the gas down a little; then the shadows of the cannel-coal fire danced like spectres on the
ceiling. He jumped up and raised the lights again; again the low, dismal monotone sang in his
ears. He stopped them with his fingers; again the persistent voice asked, "Why didn't you come
down?" Flakes fell off the coal in the grate in shapes like coffins; the flames seemed to dart
at him with their fiery tongues. He rang once more, and when the servant came he bade him drink
enough strong tea and then take his chair by the fire.

"Touch me, if I groan," said he to the astonished John. "Keep awake yourself, and hold your
tongue. If you go to sleep or leave me, I'll murder you."

Then wrapping himself in his dressing-gown, he settled down in his easy-chair for the night.

The night passed, as all nights will, and in the morning Mr. Bullion was calmer. The first
intelligence he received after breakfast was in a message from Tonsor, delivered by a servant.

"Plaze, Sur, Mr. Tonsor's compliments, and he says the banks is suspinded and money's to be asier."

"Send after Mr. Tonsor; overtake him, and ask him to come back. I want to see him."

Tonsor returned, and they had a long conference. It now seemed probable that stocks would be
more buoyant and the "bulls" would have their turn. Any considerable rise in shares would place
Bullion on his feet and enable him to resume payment. Most of his time-contracts had been met,
and the change would be of the greatest service to him. He placed his shares, therefore, in
Tonsor's hands with instructions to sell when prices advanced. He then looked over the amount
of his liabilities, and saw, with some of his old exultation, that, if he could effect sales
at the rates he expected, he should have at least two hundred thousand dollars after paying
all his debts. Ambition again whispered to him, that he might now take his old place in the
business world, and perhaps might more than retrieve his losses. But he thought of the last
night, and shrank from encountering a new brood of horrors. Firm in his new purpose, he dismissed
the broker and sent for his counsellor.

"My son," he meditated, "is a lawyer in good practice. He needs no fortune. Twenty thousand
will be enough for him; more than I had, which wasn't a penny. My daughter is married rich.
Didn't mean to have any pauper son-in-law to be plaguing me. The same for her. The rest will
square those old accounts,--and the new one, too, on the book up yonder! Best to fix it now,
while I can muster the courage. If I once get the money, I'm afraid I shouldn't do it. So my
will shall set all these matters right; and it shall be drawn and signed to-day."

That night Mr. Bullion needed no servant to watch with him. The ghosts were laid.

[To be concluded in the next number.]

       *       *       *       *       *

INSCRIPTION

FOR AN ALMS-CHEST MADE OF CAMPHOR-WOOD.

  This fragrant box that breathes of India's balms
  Hath one more fragrance, for it asketh alms;
  But, though 'tis sweet and blessed to receive,
  You know who said, "It is more blest to give":
  Give, then, receive His blessing,--and for me
  Thy silent boon sufficient blessing be!
  If Ceylon's isle, that bears the bleeding trees,
  With any perfume load the Orient breeze,--
  If Heber's Muse, by Ceylon as he sailed,
  A pleasant odor from the shore inhaled,--
  More lives in me; for underneath my lid
  A sweetness as of sacrifice is hid.

  Thou gentle almoner, in passing by,
  Smell of my wood, and scan me with thine eye;--
  I, too, from Ceylon bear a spicy breath
  That might put warmness in the lungs of death;
  A simple chest of scented wood I seem,
  But, oh! within me lurks a golden beam,--

  A beam celestial, and a silver din,
  As though imprisoned angels played within;
  Hushed in my heart my fragrant secret dwells;
  If thou wouldst learn it, Paul of Tarsus tells;--
  No jangled brass nor tinkling cymbal sound,
  For in my bosom Charity is found.

       *       *       *       *       *

A TRIP TO CUBA.

THE DEPARTURE.

Why one leaves home at all is a question that travellers are sure, sooner or later, to ask
themselves,--I mean, pleasure-travellers. Home, where one has the "Transcript" every night,
and the "Autocrat" every month, opera, theatre, circus, and good society, in constant rotation,--home,
where everybody knows us, and the little good there is to know about us,--finally, home, as
seen regretfully for the last time, with the gushing of long frozen friendships, the priceless
kisses of children, and the last sad look at dear baby's pale face through the window-pane,--well,
all this is left behind, and we review it as a dream, while the railroad-train hurries us along
to the spot where we are to leave, not only this, but Winter, rude tyrant, with all our precious
hostages in his grasp. Soon the swift motion lulls our brains into the accustomed muddle; we
seem to be dragged along like a miserable thread pulled through the eye of an ever-lasting
needle,--through and through, and never through,--while here and there, like painful knots,
the dépôts stop us, the poor thread is arrested for a minute, and then the pulling begins again.
Or, in another dream, we are like fugitives threading the gauntlet of the grim forests, while
the ice-bound trees essay a charge of bayonets on either side; but, under the guidance of our
fiery Mercury, we pass them as safely as ancient Priam passed the outposts of the Greeks,--and
New York, as hospitable as Achilles, receives us in its mighty tent. Here we await the "Karnak,"
the British Mail Company's new screw-steamer, bound for Havana, viâ Nassau. At length comes
the welcome order to "be on board." We betake ourselves thither,--the anchor is weighed, the
gun fired, and we take leave of our native land with a patriotic pang, which soon gives place
to severer spasms.

I do not know why all celebrated people who write books of travels begin by describing their
days of sea-sickness. Dickens, George Combe, Fanny Kemble, Mrs. Stowe, Miss Bremer, and many
others, have opened in like manner their valuable remarks on foreign countries. While intending
to avail myself of their privilege and example, I would, nevertheless, suggest, for those who
may come after me, that the subject of sea-sickness should be embalmed in science, and enshrined
in the crypt of some modern encyclopaedia, so that future writers should refer to it only as
the Pang Unspeakable, for which vide Ripley and Dana, vol. ---, page ---. But, as I have already
said, I shall speak of sea-sickness in a hurried and picturesque manner, as follows:--

Who are these that sit by the long dinner-table in the forward cabin, with a most unusual lack
of interest in the bill of fare? Their eyes are closed, mostly, their cheeks are pale, their
lips are quite bloodless, and to every offer of good cheer, their "No, thank you," is as faintly
uttered as are marriage-vows by maiden lips. Can they be the same that, an hour ago, were so
composed, so jovial, so full of dangerous defiance to the old man of the sea? The officer who
carves the roast-beef offers at the same time a slice of fat;--this is too much; a panic runs
through the ranks, and the rout is instantaneous and complete. The ghost of what each man was
disappears through the trap-door of his state-room, and the hell which the theatre faintly
pictures behind the scenes begins in good earnest.

For to what but to Dante's "Inferno" can we liken this steamboat-cabin, with its double row
of pits, and its dismal captives? What are these sighs, groans, and despairing noises, but
the alti guai rehearsed by the poet? Its fiends are the stewards who rouse us from our perpetual
torpor with offers of food and praises of shadowy banquets,--"Nice mutton-chop, Sir? roast-turkey?
plate of soup?" Cries of "No, no!" resound, and the wretched turn again, and groan. The philanthropist
has lost the movement of the age,--keeled up in an upper berth, convulsively embracing a blanket,
what conservative more immovable than he? The great man of the party refrains from his large
theories, which, like the circles made by the stone thrown into the water, begin somewhere
and end nowhere. As we have said, he expounds himself no more, the significant fore-finger
is down, the eye no longer imprisons yours. But if you ask him how he does, he shakes himself,
as if, like Farinata,--

  "avesse l' inferno in gran dispetto,"--

"he had a very contemptible opinion of hell." Let me not forget to add, that it rains every
day, that it blows every night, and that it rolls through the twenty-four hours till the whole
world seems as if turned bottom upwards, clinging with its nails to chaos, and fearing to launch
away. The captain comes and says,--"It is true, you have a nasty, short, chopping sea hereabouts;
but you see, she is spinning away down South jolly!" And this is the Gulf-Stream!

But all things have an end, and most things have two. After the third day, a new development
manifests itself. Various shapeless masses are carried upstairs and suffered to fall like snow-flakes
on the deck, and to lie there in shivering heaps. From these larvae gradually emerge features
and voices,--the luncheon-bell at last stirs them with the thrill of returning life. They look
up, they lean up, they exchange pensive smiles of recognition,--the steward comes, no fiend
this time, but a ministering angel, and, lo! the strong man eats broth, and the weak woman
clamors for pickled oysters. And so ends my description of our sea-sickness.

For, as for betraying the confidences of those sad days, as for telling how wofully untrue
Professors of Temperance were to their principles, how the Apostle of Total Abstinence developed
a brandy-flask, not altogether new, what unsuccessful tipplings were attempted in the desperation
of nausea, and for what lady that stunning brandy-smasher was mixed,--as for such tales out
of school, I would have you know that I am not the man to tell them.

Yet a portrait or so lingers in my mental repository;--let me throw them in, to close off the lot.

No. 1. A sober Bostonian in the next state-room, whose assiduity with his sea-sick wife reminds
one of Cock-Robin, when he sent Jenny Wren sops and wine. This person was last seen in a dressing-gown,
square-cut night-cap, and odd slippers, dancing up and down the state-room floor with a cup
of gruel, making wild passes with a spoon at an individual in a berth, who never got any of
the contents. Item, the gruel, in a moment of excitement, finally ran in a stream upon the
floor, and was wiped up by the steward. Result not known, but disappointment is presumable.

No. 2. A stout lady, imprisoned by a board on a sofa nine inches wide, called by a facetious
friend "The Coffin." She complains that her sides are tolerably battered in;--we hold our tongues,
and think that the board, too, has had a hard time of it. Yet she is a jolly soul, laughing
at her misfortunes, and chirruping to her baby. Her spirits keep up, even when her dinner won't
keep down. Her favorite expressions are "Good George!" and "Oh, jolly!" She does not intend,
she says, to lay in any dry goods in Cuba, but means to eat up all the good victuals she comes
across. Though seen at present under unfavorable circumstances, she inspires confidence as
to her final accomplishment of this result.

No. 3. A woman, said to be of a literary turn of mind, in the miserablest condition imaginable.
Her clothes, flung at her by the stewardess, seem to have hit in some places, and missed in
others. Her listless hands occasionally make an attempt to keep her draperies together, and
to pull her hat on her head; but though the intention is evident, she accomplishes little by
her motion. She is perpetually being lugged about by a stout steward, who knocks her head against
both sides of the vessel, folds her up in the gangway, spreads her out on the deck, and takes
her up-stairs, down-stairs, and in my lady's chamber, where, report says, he feeds her with
a spoon, and comforts her with such philosophy as he is master of. N.B. This woman, upon the
first change of weather, rose like a cork, dressed like a Christian, and toddled about the
deck in the easiest manner, sipping her grog, and cutting sly jokes upon her late companions
in misery,--is supposed by some to have been an impostor, and, when ill-treated, announced
intentions of writing a book.

No. 4, my last, is only a sketch;--circumstances allowed no more. Can Grande, the great dog,
has been got up out of the pit, where he worried the stewardess and snapped at the friend who
tried to pat him on the head. Everybody asks where he is. Don't you see that heap of shawls
yonder, lying in the sun, and heated up to about 212 degrees Fahrenheit? That slouched hat
on top marks the spot where his head should lie,--by treading cautiously in the opposite direction
you may discover his feet. All between is perfectly passive and harmless. His chief food is
pickles,--his only desire is rest. After all these years of controversy, after all these battles,
bravely fought and nobly won, you might write with truth upon this moveless mound of woollens
the pathetic words from Père la Chaise:--Implora Pace.

But no more at present, for land is in sight, and in my next you shall hear how we found it,
and what we saw at Nassau.

NASSAU.

Nassau looked very green and pleasant to us after our voyage;--the eyes enjoy a little fresh
provision after so long a course of salt food. The first view of land is little more than "the
feeling of the thing,"--it is matter of faith, rather than of sight. You are shown a dark and
distant line, near the horizon, without color or features. They say it is land, and you believe
it. But you come nearer and nearer,--you see first the green of vegetation, then the form of
the trees,--the harbor at last opens its welcome arms,--the anchor is dropped,--the gun fired,--the
steam snuffed out. Led by a thread of sunshine, you have walked the labyrinth of the waters,
and all their gigantic dangers lie behind you.

We made Nassau at twelve o'clock, on the sixth day from our departure, counting the first as
one. The first feature discernible was a group of tall cocoa-nut trees, with which the island
is bounteously feathered;--the second was a group of negroes in a small boat, steering towards
us with open-mouthed and white-toothed wonder. Nothing makes its simple impression upon the
mind sophisticated by education. The negroes, as they came nearer, suggested only Christy's
Minstrels, of whom they were a tolerably faithful imitation,--while the cocoa-nut-trees transported
us to the Boston in Ravel-time, and we strained our eyes to see the wonderful ape, Jocko, whose
pathetic death, nightly repeated, used to cheat the credulous Bostonians of time, tears, and
treasure. Despite the clumsiest management, the boat soon effected a junction with our gangway,
allowing some nameless official to come on board, and to go through I know not what mysterious
and indispensable formality. Other boats then came, like a shoal of little fishes around the
carcass of a giant whale.

Now we who write, and they for whom we write, are all orthodox upon this mighty question; we
have all made our confession of faith in private and in public; we all, on suitable occasions,
walk up and apply the match to the keg of gun-powder which is to blow up the Union, but which,
somehow, at the critical moment, fails to ignite. But you must allow us one heretical whisper,--very
small and low. The negro of the North is an ideal negro; it is the negro refined by white culture,
elevated by white blood, instructed even by white iniquity;--the negro among negroes is a coarse,
grinning, flat-footed, thick-skulled creature, ugly as Caliban, lazy as the laziest of brutes,
chiefly ambitious to be of no use to any in the world. View him as you will, his stock in trade
is small;--he has but the tangible instincts of all creatures,--love of life, of ease, and
of offspring. For all else, he must go to school to the white race, and his discipline must
be long and laborious. Nassau, and all that we saw of it, suggested to us the unwelcome question,
whether compulsory labor be not better than none. But as a question I gladly leave it, and
return to the simple narration of what befell.

There was a sort of eddy at the gangway of our steamer, made by the conflicting tides of those
who wanted to come on board and of those who wanted to go on shore. We were among the number
of the latter, but were stopped and held by the button by one of the former, while those more
impatient or less sympathizing made their way to the small boats which waited below. The individual
in question had come alongside in a handsome barge, rowed by a dozen stout blacks, in the undress
uniform of the Zouaves. These men, well drilled and disciplined, seemed of a different sort
from the sprawling, screaming creatures in the other boats, and their bright red caps and white
tunics became them well. But he who now claimed my attention was of British birth and military
profession. His face was ardent, his pantaloons were of white flannel, his expression of countenance
was that of habitual discontent, but with a twinkle of geniality in the eye which redeemed
the Grumbler from the usual tedium of his tribe. He accosted us as follows:--

"Go ashore? What for? To see something, eh? There's nothing to see; the island isn't bigger
than a nut-shell, and doesn't contain a single prospect.--Go ashore and get some dinner? There
isn't anything to eat there.--Fruit? None to speak of; sour oranges and green bananas.--I went
to market last Saturday, and bought one cabbage, one banana, and half a pig's head;--there's
a market for you!--Fish? Oh, yes, if you like it.--Turtle? Yes, you can get the Gallipagos
turtle; it makes tolerable soup, but has not the green fat, which, in my opinion, is the most
important feature in turtle-soup.--Shops? You can't buy a pair of scissors on the island, nor
a baby's bottle;--broke mine the other day, and tried to replace it; couldn't.--Society? There
are lots of people to call upon you, and bore you to death with returning their visits."

At last the Major went below, and we broke away, and were duly conveyed to terra firma. It
was Sunday, and late in the afternoon. The first glimpse certainly seemed to confirm the Major's
disparaging statements. The town is small; the houses dingy and out of repair; the legend,
that paint costs nothing, is not received here; and whatever may have been the original colors
of the buildings, the climate has had its own way with them for many a day. The barracks are
superior in finish to anything else we see. Government-House is a melancholy-looking caserne,
surrounded by a piazza, the grounds being adorned with a most chunky and inhuman statue of
Columbus. All the houses are surrounded by verandas, from which pale children and languid women
in muslins look out, and incline us to ask what epidemic has visited the island and swept the
rose from every cheek. They are a pallid race, the Nassauese, and retain little of the vigor
of their English ancestry. One English trait they exhibit,--the hospitality which has passed
into a proverb; another, perhaps,--the stanch adherence to the forms and doctrines of Episcopacy.
We enter the principal church;--they are just lighting it for evening service; it is hung with
candles, each burning in a clear glass shade. The walls and ceiling are whitewashed, and contrast
prettily with the dark timbering of the roof. We would gladly have staid to give thanks for
our safe and prosperous voyage, but a black rain-cloud warns us homeward,--not, however, until
we have received a kind invitation from one of the hospitable islanders to return the next
morning for a drive and breakfast.

Returning soon after sunrise to fulfil this promise, we encounter the barracks, and are tempted
to look in and see the sons of darkness performing their evolutions. The morning drill is about
half over. We peep in,--the Colonel, a lean Don Quixote on a leaner Rosinante, dashes up to
us with a weak attempt at a canter; he courteously invites us to come in and see all that is
to be seen, and, lo! our friend the Major, quite gallant in his sword and scarlet jacket, is
detailed for our service. The soldiers are black, and very black,--none of your dubious American
shades, ranging from clear salmon to café au lait or even to café noir. These are your good,
satisfactory, African sables, warranted not to change in the washing. Their Zouave costume
is very becoming, with the Oriental turban, caftan, and loose trousers; and the Philosopher
of our party remarks, that the African requires costume, implying that the New Englander can
stand alone, as can his clothes, in their black rigidity. The officers are white, and the Major
very polite; he shows us the men, the arms, the kits, the quarters, and, having done all that
he can do for us, relinquishes us with a gallant bow to our host of the drive and breakfast.

The drive does something to retrieve the character of the island. The road is hard and even,
overhung with glossy branches of strange trees bearing unknown fruits, and studded on each
side with pleasant villas and with negro huts. There are lovely flowers everywhere, among which
the Hibiscus, called South-Sea Rose, and the Oleander, are most frequent, and most brilliant.
We see many tall groves of cocoa-nut, and cast longing glances towards the fruit, which little
negroes, with surprising activity, attain and shake down. A sudden turn in the road discloses
a lovely view of the bay, with its wonderful green waters, clear and bright as emerald;--there
is a little beach, and boats lie about, and groups of negroes are laughing and chattering,--quoting
stocks from the last fish-market, very likely. We purchase for half a dollar a bunch of bananas,
for which Ford or Palmer would ask us ten dollars at least, and go rejoicing to our breakfast.

Our host is a physician of the island, English by birth, and retaining his robust form and
color in spite of a twenty-years' residence in the warm climate. He has a pleasant family of
sons and daughters, all in health, but without a shade of pink in lips or cheeks. The breakfast
consists of excellent fried fish, fine Southern hominy,--not the pebbly broken corn which our
dealers impose under that name,--various hot cakes, tea and coffee, bananas, sapodillas, and
if there be anything else not included in the present statement, let haste and want of time
excuse the omission. The conversation runs a good deal on the hopes of increasing prosperity
which the new mail-steamer opens to the eyes of the Nassauese. Invalids, they say, will do
better there than in Cuba,--it is quieter, much cheaper, and the climate is milder. There will
be a hotel, very soon, where no attention will be spared, etc., etc. The Government will afford
every facility, etc., etc. It seemed, indeed, a friendly little place, with delicious air and
sky, and a good, reasonable, decent, English tone about it. Expenses moderate, ye fathers of
encroaching families. Negroes abundant and natural, ye students of ethnological possibilities.
Officers in red jackets, you young ladies,--young ones, some of them. Why wouldn't you all
try it, especially as the captain of the "Karnak" is an excellent sailor, and the kindest and
manliest of conductors?

FROM NASSAU TO CUBA.

The breakfast being over, we recall the captain's parting admonition to be on board by ten
o'clock, with the significant gesture and roll of the eye which clearly express that England
expects every passenger to do his duty. Now we know very well that the "Karnak" is not likely
to weigh anchor before twelve, at the soonest, but we dare not, for our lives, disobey the
captain. So, passing by yards filled with the huge Bahama sponges, piles of wreck-timber, fishing-boats
with strange fishes, red, yellow, blue, and white, and tubs of aldermanic turtle, we attain
the shore, and, presently, the steamer. Here we find a large deputation of the towns-people
taking passage with us for a pleasure excursion to Havana. The greater number are ladies and
children. They come fluttering on board, poor things, like butterflies, in gauzy dresses, hats,
and feathers, according to the custom of their country; one gentleman takes four little daughters
with him for a holiday. We ask ourselves whether they know what an ugly beast the Gulf-Stream
is, that they affront him in such light armor. "Good heavens! how sick they will be!" we exclaim;
while they eye us askance, in our winter trim, and pronounce us slow, and old fogies. With
all the rashness of youth, they attack the luncheon-table. So boisterous a popping of corks
was never heard in all our boisterous passage;--there is a chorus, too, of merry tongues and
shrill laughter. But we get fairly out to sea, where the wind, an adverse one, is waiting for
us, and at that gay table there is silence, followed by a rush and disappearance. The worst
cases are hurried out of sight, and, going above, we find the disabled lying in groups about
the deck, the feather-hats discarded, the muslins crumpled, and we, the old fogies, going to
cover the fallen with shawls and blankets, to speak words of consolation, and to implore the
sufferers not to cure themselves with brandy, soda-water, claret, and wine-bitters, in quick
succession,--which they, nevertheless, do, and consequently are no better that day, nor the next.

But I am forgetting to chronicle a touching parting interview with the Major, the last thing
remembered in Nassau, and of course the last to be forgotten anywhere. Our concluding words
might best be recorded in the form of a catechism of short questions and answers, to wit:--

"How long did the Major expect to stay in Nassau?"

"About six months."

"How long would he stay, if he had his own way?"

"Not one!"

"What did he come for, then?"

"Oh, you buy into a nigger regiment for promotion."

These were the most important facts elicited by cross-examination. At last we shook hands warmly,
promising to meet again somewhere, and the crimson-lined barge with the black Zouaves carried
him away. In humbler equipages depart the many black women who have visited the steamer, some
for amusement, some to sell the beautiful shell-work made on the island. These may be termed,
in general, as ugly a set of wenches as one could wish not to see. They all wear palm-leaf
hats stuck on their heads without strings or ribbons, and their clothes are so ill-made that
you cannot help thinking that each has borrowed somebody else's dress, until you see that the
ill-fitting garments are the rule, not the exception.

But neither youth nor sea-sickness lasts forever. The forces of nature rally on the second
day, and the few who have taken no remedies recover the use of their tongues and some of their
faculties. From these I gather what I shall here impart as

SERIOUS VIEWS OF THE BAHAMAS.

The principal exports of these favored islands are fruits, sponges, molasses, and sugar. Their
imports include most of the necessaries of life, which come to them oftenest in the form of
wrecks, by which they obtain them at a small fraction of the original cost and value. For this
resource they are indebted to the famous Bahama Banks, which, to their way of thinking, are
institutions as important as the Bank of England itself. These banks stand them in a handsome
annual income, and facilitate large discounts and transfers of property not contemplated by
the original possessors. One supposes that somebody must suffer by these forced sales of large
cargoes at prices ruinous to commerce,--but who suffers is a point not easy to ascertain. There
seems to be a good, comfortable understanding all round. The owners say, "Go ahead, and don't
bother yourself,--she's insured." The captain has got his ship aground in shoal water where
she can't sink, and no harm done. The friendly wreckers are close at hand to haul the cargo
ashore. The underwriter of the insurance company has shut his eyes and opened his mouth to
receive a plum, which, being a good large one, will not let him speak. And so the matter providentially
comes to pass, and "enterprises of great pith and moment" oftenest get no farther than the Bahamas.

Nassau produces neither hay nor corn,--these, together with butter, flour, and tea, being brought
chiefly from the United States. Politics, of course, it has none. As to laws, the colonial
system certainly needs propping up,--for under its action a man may lead so shameless a life
of immorality as to compel his wife to leave him, and yet not be held responsible for her support
and that of the children she has borne him. The principal points of interest are, first, the
garrison,--secondly, Government-House, with an occasional ball there,--and, third, one's next-door
neighbor, and his or her doings. The principal event in the memory of the citizens seems to
be a certain most desirable wreck, in consequence of which, a diamond card-case worth fifteen
hundred dollars was sold for an eighth part of that sum, and laces whose current price ranges
from thirty to forty dollars a yard were purchased at will for seventy-five cents. That was
a wreck worth having! say the Nassauese. The price of milk ranges from eighteen to twenty-five
cents a quart;--think of that, ye New England housekeepers! That precious article, the pudding,
is nearly unknown in the Nassauese economy; nor is pie-crust so short as it might be, owing
to the enormous price of butter, which has been known to attain the sum of one dollar per pound.
Eggs are quoted at prices not commendable for large families with small means. On the other
hand, fruits, vegetables, and sugar-cane are abundant.

The Nassauese, on the whole, seem to be a kind-hearted and friendly set of people, partly English,
partly Southern in character, but with rather a predominance of the latter ingredient in their
composition. Their women resemble the women of our own Southern States, but seem simpler and
more domestic in their habits,--while the men would make tolerable Yankees, but would scarcely
support President Buchanan, the Kansas question, or the Filibustero movement. Physically, the
race suffers and degenerates under the influence of the warm climate. Cases of pulmonary disease,
asthma, and neuralgia are of frequent occurrence, and cold is considered as curative to them
as heat is to us. The diet, too, is not that "giant ox-beef" which the Saxon race requires.
Meat is rare, and tough, unless brought from the States at high cost. We were forced to the
conclusion that no genuine English life can be supported upon a régime of fish and fruit,--or,
in other words, no beef, no Bull, but a very different sort of John, lantern-jawed, leather-skinned,
and of a thirsty complexion. It occurred to us, furthermore, that it is a dolorous thing to
live on a lonely little island, tied up like a wart on the face of civilization,--no healthful
stream of life coming and going from the great body of the main land,--the same moral air to
be breathed over and over again, without renewal,--the same social elements turned and returned
in one tiresome kaleidoscope. Wherefore rejoice, ye Continentals, and be thankful, and visit
the Nassauese, bringing beef, butter, and beauty,--bringing a few French muslins to replace
the coarse English fabrics, and buxom Irish girls to outwork the idle negro women,--bringing
new books, newspapers, and periodicals,--bringing the Yankee lecturer, all expenses paid, and
his drink found him. All these good things, and more, the States have for the Nassauese, of
whom we must now take leave, for all hands have been piped on deck.

We have jolted for three weary days over the roughest of ocean-highways, and Cuba, nay, Havana,
is in sight. The worst cases are up, and begin to talk about their sea-legs, now that the occasion
for them is at an end. Sobrina, the chief wit of our party, who would eat sour-sop, sapodilla,
orange, banana, cocoa-nut, and sugar-cane at Nassau, and who has lived upon toddy of twenty-cocktail
power ever since,--even she is seen, clothed and in her right mind, sitting at the feet of
the prophet she loves, and going through the shawl-and-umbrella exercise. And here is the Moro
Castle, which guards the entrance of the harbor,--here go the signals, answering to our own.
Here comes the man with the speaking-trumpet, who, understanding no English, yells out to our
captain, who understands no Spanish. The following is a free rendering of their conversation:--

"Any Americans on board?"

"Yes, thank Heaven, plenty."

"How many are Filibusteros?"

"All of them."

"Bad luck to them, then!"

"The same to you!"

"Caramba" says the Spaniard.

"--------," says the Englishman.

And so the forms of diplomacy are fulfilled; and of Havana, more in my next.

[To be continued.]

THE PROFESSOR AT THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

WHAT HE SAID, WHAT HE HEARD, AND WHAT HE SAW. There are a good many bad teeth, we all know,
but a great many more good ones.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MINISTER'S WOOING.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER XII.

MISS PRISSY.

Will our little Mary really fall in love with the Doctor?--The question reaches us in anxious
tones from all the circle of our readers; and what especially shocks us is, that grave doctors
of divinity, and serious, stocking-knitting matrons, seem to be the class who are particularly
set against the success of our excellent orthodox hero, and bent on reminding us of the claims
of that unregenerate James, whom we have sent to sea on purpose that our heroine may recover
herself of that foolish partiality for him which all the Christian world seems bent on perpetuating.

"Now, really," says the Rev. Mrs. Q., looking up from her bundle of Sewing-Society work, "you
are not going to let Mary marry the Doctor?"

My dear Madam, is not that just what you did, yourself, after having turned off three or four
fascinating young sinners as good as James any day? Don't make us believe that you are sorry
for it now!

"Is it possible," says Dr. Theophrastus, who is himself a stanch Hopkinsian divine, and who
is at present recovering from his last grand effort on Natural and Moral Ability,--"is it possible
that you are going to let Mary forget that poor young man and marry Dr. H.? That will never
do in the world!"

Dear Doctor, consider what would have become of you, if some lady at a certain time had not
had the sense and discernment to fall in love with the man who came to her disguised as a theologian.

"But he's so old!" says Aunt Maria.

Not at all. Old? What do you mean? Forty is the very season of ripeness,--the very meridian
of manly lustre and splendor.

"But he wears a wig."

My dear Madam, so did Sir Charles Grandison, and Lovelace, and all the other fine fellows of
those days; the wig was the distinguishing mark of a gentleman.

No,--spite of all you may say and declare, we do insist that our Doctor is a very proper and
probable subject for a young lady to fall in love with.

If women have one weakness more marked than another, it is towards veneration. They are born
worshippers,--makers of silver shrines for some divinity or other, which, of course, they always
think fell straight down from heaven.

The first step towards their falling in love with an ordinary mortal is generally to dress
him out with all manner of real or fancied superiority; and having made him up, they worship him.

Now a truly great man, a man really grand and noble in heart and intellect, has this advantage
with women, that he is an idol ready-made to hand; and so that very painstaking and ingenious
sex have less labor in getting him up, and can be ready to worship him on shorter notice.

In particular is this the case where a sacred profession and a moral supremacy are added to
the intellectual. Just think of the career of celebrated preachers and divines in all ages.
Have they not stood like the image that "Nebuchadnezzar the king set up," and all womankind,
coquettes and flirts not excepted, been ready to fall down and worship, even before the sound
of cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, and so forth? Is not the faithful Paula, with her beautiful
face, prostrate in reverence before poor, old, lean, haggard, dying St. Jerome, in the most
splendid painting of the world, an emblem and sign of woman's eternal power of self-sacrifice
to what she deems noblest in man? Does not old Richard Baxter tell us, with delightful single-heartedness,
how his wife fell in love with him first, spite of his long, pale face,--and how she confessed,
dear soul, after many years of married life, that she had found him less sour and bitter than
she had expected?

The fact is, women are burdened with fealty, faith, reverence, more than they know what to
do with; they stand like a hedge of sweet-peas, throwing out fluttering tendrils everywhere
for something high and strong to climb by,--and when they find it, be it ever so rough in the
bark, they catch upon it. And instances are not wanting of those who have turned away from
the flattery of admirers to prostrate themselves at the feet of a genuine hero who never wooed
them, except by heroic deeds and the rhetoric of a noble life.

Never was there a distinguished man whose greatness could sustain the test of minute domestic
inspection better than our Doctor. Strong in a single-hearted humility, a perfect unconsciousness
of self, an honest and sincere absorption in high and holy themes and objects, there was in
him what we so seldom see,--a perfect logic of life; his minutest deeds were the true results
of his sublimest principles. His whole nature, moral, physical, and intellectual, was simple,
pure, and cleanly. He was temperate as an anchorite in all matters of living,--avoiding, from
a healthy instinct, all those intoxicating stimuli then common among the clergy. In his early
youth, indeed, he had formed an attachment to the almost universal clerical pipe,--but, observing
a delicate woman once nauseated by coming into the atmosphere which he and his brethren had
polluted, he set himself gravely to reflect that that which could so offend a woman must needs
be uncomely and unworthy a Christian man; wherefore he laid his pipe on the mantelpiece, and
never afterwards resumed the indulgence.

In all his relations with womanhood he was delicate and reverential, forming his manners by
that old precept, "The elder women entreat as mothers, the younger as sisters,"--which rule,
short and simple as it is, is nevertheless the most perfect résumé, of all true gentlemanliness.
Then, as for person, the Doctor was not handsome, to be sure; but he was what sometimes serves
with woman better,--majestic and manly, and, when animated by thought and feeling, having even
a commanding grandeur of mien. Add to all this, that our valiant hero is now on the straight
road to bring him into that situation most likely to engage the warm partisanship of a true
woman,--namely, that of a man unjustly abused for right-doing,--and one may see that it is
ten to one our Mary may fall in love with him yet, before she knows it.

If it were not for this mysterious selfness-and-sameness which makes this wild, wandering,
uncanonical sailor, James Marvyn, so intimate and internal,--if his thread were not knit up
with the thread of her life,--were it not for the old habit of feeling for him, thinking for
him, praying for him, hoping for him, fearing for him, which--woe is us!--is the unfortunate
habit of womankind,--if it were not for that fatal something which neither judgment, nor wishes,
nor reason, nor common sense shows any great skill in unravelling,--we are quite sure that
Mary would be in love with the Doctor within the next six months; as it is, we leave you all
to infer from your own heart and consciousness what his chances are.

A new sort of scene is about to open on our heroine, and we shall show her to you, for an evening
at least, in new associations, and with a different background from that homely and rural one
in which she has fluttered as a white dove amid leafy and congenial surroundings.

As we have before intimated, Newport presented a résumé of many different phases of society,
all brought upon a social level by the then universally admitted principle of equality.

There were scattered about in the settlement lordly mansions, whose owners rolled in emblazoned
carriages, and whose wide halls were the scenes of a showy and almost princely hospitality.
By her husband's side, Mrs. Katy Scudder was allied to one of these families of wealthy planters,
and often recognized the connection with a quiet undertone of satisfaction, as a dignified
and self-respecting woman should. She liked, once in a while, quietly to let people know, that,
although they lived in the plain little cottage and made no pretensions, yet they had good
blood in their veins,--that Mr. Scudder's mother was a Wilcox, and that the Wilcoxes were,
she supposed, as high as anybody,--generally ending the remark with the observation, that "all
these things, to be sure, were matters of small consequence, since at last it would be of far
more importance to have been a true Christian than to have been connected with the highest
families of the land."

Nevertheless, Mrs. Scudder was not a little pleased to have in her possession a card of invitation
to a splendid wedding-party that was going to be given, on Friday, at the Wilcox Manor. She
thought it a very becoming mark of respect to the deceased Mr. Scudder that his widow and daughter
should be brought to mind,--so becoming and praiseworthy, in fact, that, "though an old woman,"
as she said, with a complacent straightening of her tall, lithe figure, she really thought
she must make an effort to go.

Accordingly, early one morning, after all domestic duties had been fulfilled, and the clock,
loudly ticking through the empty rooms, told that all needful bustle had died down to silence,
Mrs. Katy, Mary, and Miss Prissy Diamond, the dressmaker, might have been observed sitting
in solemn senate around the camphor-wood trunk, before spoken of, and which exhaled vague foreign
and Indian perfumes of silk and sandal-wood.

You may have heard of dignitaries, my good reader,--but, I assure you, you know very little
of a situation of trust or importance compared to that of the dress-maker in a small New England
town.

What important interests does she hold in her hands! How is she besieged, courted, deferred
to! Three months beforehand, all her days and nights are spoken for; and the simple statement,
that only on that day you can have Miss Clippers, is of itself an apology for any omission
of attention elsewhere,--it strikes home at once to the deepest consciousness of every woman,
married or single. How thoughtfully is everything arranged, weeks beforehand, for the golden,
important season when Miss Clippers can come! On that day, there is to be no extra sweeping,
dusting, cleaning, cooking, no visiting, no receiving, no reading or writing, but all with
one heart and soul are to wait upon her, intent to forward the great work which she graciously
affords a day's leisure to direct. Seated in her chair of state, with her well-worn cushion
bristling with pins and needles at her side, her ready roll of patterns and her scissors, she
hears, judges, and decides ex cathedrâ on the possible or not possible, in that important art
on which depends the right presentation of the floral part of Nature's great horticultural
show. She alone is competent to say whether there is any available remedy for the stained breadth
in Jane's dress,--whether the fatal spot by any magical hocus-pocus can be cut out from the
fulness, or turned up and smothered from view in the gathers, or concealed by some new fashion
of trimming falling with generous appropriateness exactly across the fatal weak point. She
can tell you whether that remnant of velvet will make you a basque,--whether Mamma's old silk
can reappear in juvenile grace for Miss Lucy. What marvels follow her, wherever she goes! What
wonderful results does she contrive from the most unlikely materials, as everybody after her
departure wonders to see old things become so much better than new!

Among the most influential and happy of her class was Miss Prissy Diamond,--a little, dapper,
doll-like body, quick in her motions and nimble in her tongue, whose delicate complexion, flaxen
curls, merry flow of spirits, and ready abundance of gayety, song, and story, apart from her
professional accomplishments, made her a welcome guest in every family in the neighborhood.
Miss Prissy laughingly boasted being past forty, sure that the avowal would always draw down
on her quite a storm of compliments, on the freshness of her sweet-pea complexion and the brightness
of her merry blue eyes. She was well pleased to hear dawning girls wondering why with so many
advantages she had never married. At such remarks, Miss Prissy always laughed loudly, and declared
that she had always had such a string of engagements with the women that she never found half
an hour to listen to what any man living would say to her, supposing she could stop to hear
him. "Besides, if I were to get married, nobody else could," she would say. "What would become
of all the wedding-clothes for everybody else?" But sometimes, when Miss Prissy felt extremely
gracious, she would draw out of her little chest just the faintest tip-end of a sigh, and tell
some young lady, in a confidential undertone, that one of these days she would tell her something,--and
then there would come a wink of her blue eyes and a fluttering of the pink ribbons in her cap
quite stimulating to youthful inquisitiveness, though we have never been able to learn by any
of our antiquarian researches that the expectations thus excited were ever gratified.

In her professional prowess she felt a pardonable pride. What feats could she relate of wonderful
dresses got out of impossibly small patterns of silk! what marvels of silks turned that could
not be told from new! what reclaimings of waists that other dress-makers had hopelessly spoiled!
Had not Mrs. General Wilcox once been obliged to call in her aid on a dress sent to her from
Paris? and did not Miss Prissy work three days and nights on that dress, and make every stitch
of that trimming over with her own hands, before it was fit to be seen? And when Mrs. Governor
Dexter's best silver-gray brocade was spoiled by Miss Pimlico, and there wasn't another scrap
to pattern it with, didn't she make a new waist out of the cape and piece one of the sleeves
twenty-nine times, and yet nobody would ever have known that there was a joining in it?

In fact, though Miss Prissy enjoyed the fair average plain-sailing of her work, she might be
said to revel in difficulties. A full pattern with trimming, all ample and ready, awoke a moderate
enjoyment; but the resurrection of anything half-worn or imperfectly made, the brilliant success,
when, after turning, twisting, piecing, contriving, and, by unheard-of inventions of trimming,
a dress faded and defaced was restored to more than pristine splendor,--that was a triumph
worth enjoying.

