Then Honorius read the story of the burial, the resurrection, the appearance again to the disciples,
and the ascension. Nor did he end with this. He sought to give peace to the soul of his friend.
He read to him all the words of Jesus which invite the sinner, and assure to him a gracious
reception and complete forgiveness.

"It is the word of God," cried Marcellus, "it is a voice from heaven. My heart responds to
everything that I have heard, and I know that it must be eternal truth.

"But how can I be a sharer in these blessings? I am a sinner; I seem now to have my eyes cleared
of mist. I know myself at last. Before I thought I was a just and a righteous man. But beside
the Holy One of whom I have heard I sink down into the dust, I see that I am a sinner before him."

"He has atoned for all."

"But how can I be benefited?"

"He will pardon everything even to the uttermost."

"How can he pardon me?"

"Lift up your soul to him and pray for pardon. If you ask you shall receive."

"O, then, if I may dare to approach, if it be permitted for me to utter a word to him, teach
me the words, tell me the way."

In the dimness of the gloomy vault, in solitude and solemn silence, Honorius knelt down, and
Marcellus bowed himself by his side.

The venerable Christian lifted up his soul in prayer. Marcellus felt as though his own soul
was being lifted up to the courts of heaven, to the presence of the Saviour, by the power of
that, fervent and agonizing prayer. The words seemed to find an echo in his own soul. In his
deep abasement he rested his wants upon his companion so that he might present them in a more
acceptable manner.

But finally his own desires grew stronger. Hope came to him, timidly, tremblingly, yet still
it was hope, and his soul grew stronger at her presence. At, last, when Honorius ended, his
feelings burst forth. It was the prayer of the publican: "God be merciful unto me a sinner!"

Hours passed on. But who can fittingly describe the progress of a soul on its way to its God?
Enough, that when morning dawned on the earth above, a better day had dawned over the soul
of Marcellus in the vaults below. His longings were completely satisfied; the load was all
removed; the Christians; secret was his; and with rapture unfelt before, he could now sing
the song of the Christian:

    "Unto Him that loved us,
    To Him that washed us from our sins
    In his own blood,
    To Him be glory and dominion
    For ever and ever."

CHAPTER VI.

THE CLOUD OF WITNESSES.

    "These all died in faith."

The new convert soon learned more of the Christians. After a brief repose he rose and was joined
by Honorius, who offered to show him the nature of the place where they lived.

Those whom he had seen at the chapel service formed but a small part of the dwellers in the
catacombs. Their numbers rose to many thousands, and they were scattered throughout its wide
extent in little communities, each of which had its own means of communication with the city.

He walked far on, accompanied by Honorius. He was astonished at the numbers of people whom
he encountered; and though he knew that the Christians were numerous, yet he did not suppose
that so vast a proportion would have the fortitude to choose a life in the catacombs.

Nor was he less interested in the dead than in the living. As he passed along he read the inscriptions
upon their tombs, and found in them all the same strong faith and lofty hope. These he loved
to read, and the fond interest which Honorius took in these pious memorials made him a congenial
guide.

"There," said Honorius, "lies a witness for the truth."

Marcellus looked where he pointed, and read as follows:

    PRIMITIUS, IN PEACE, AFTER MANY TORMENTS, A MOST VALIANT MARTYR. HE
    LIVED ABOUT THIRTY-EIGHT YEARS. HIS WIFE RAISED THIS TO HER DEAREST
    HUSBAND, THE WELL-DESERVING.

"These men," said Honorius, "show us how Christians ought to die. Yonder is another who suffered
like Primitius."

    PAULUS WAS PUT TO DEATH IN TORTURES, IN ORDER THAT HE MIGHT LIVE IN
    ETERNAL BLISS.

"And there," said Honorius, "is the tomb of a noble lady, who showed that fortitude which Christ
can always bestow even to the weakest of his followers in the hour of need."

    CLEMENTIA, TORTURED, DEAD, SLEEPS, WILL RISE.

"We do not die," said Honorius; "we but sleep, and when the last trump shall sound we shall
awake to be forever with the Lord. Here," he continued, "lies Constans, doubly constant to
his God by a double trial. Poison was given to him first, but it was powerless over him, so
he was put to the sword:"

    THE DEADLY DRAUGHT DARED NOT PRESENT TO CONSTANS THE CROWN WHICH THE
    STEEL WAS PERMTTED TO OFFER.

Thus they walked along, reading the inscriptions which appeared on every side. New feelings
came to Marcellus as he read the glorious catalogue of names. It was to him a history of the
Church of Christ. Here were the acts of the martyrs portrayed before him in words that burned.
The rude pictures that adorned many of the tombs carried with them a pathos that the finest
works of the skillful artist could not produce. The rudely carved letters, the bad spelling
and grammatical errors, that characterized many of them, gave a touching proof of the treasure
of the Gospel to the poor and lowly. Not many wise, not many mighty are called; but to the
poor the Gospel is preached.

On many of them there was a monogram, which was formed of the initial letters of the name of
Christ, "X" and "P" being joined so as to form one cypher. Some bore a palm branch, the emblem
of victory and immortality, the token of that palm of glory which shall hereafter wave in the
hands of the innumerable throng that are to stand around the throne. Others bore other devices.

"What is this?" said Marcellus, pointing to a picture of a ship.

"It shows that the redeemed spirit has sailed from earth to the haven of rest."

"And what is the meaning of this fish that I see represented so often?"

"The fish is used because the letters that form its name in Greek are the initials of words
that express the glory and hope of the Christian. 'iota' stands for 'Jesus,' 'chi' for 'Christ,'
'theta' and 'gamma' for 'the Son of God,' and 'sigma' for 'Saviour,' so that the fish symbolizes
under its name 'iota chi theta gamma sigma,' 'Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Saviour.'"

"What means this picture that I see so often--a ship and a huge sea monster?"

"That is Jonah, a prophet of God, of whom as yet you are ignorant." Honorius then related the
story of Jonah, and showed him how the escape from the bowels of the fish reminded the Christian
of his deliverance from the darkness of the tomb. "This glorious hope of the resurrection is
an unspeakable comfort," said he, "and we love to bring it to our thoughts by different symbols.
There, too, is another symbol of the same blessed truth--the dove carrying an olive branch
to Noah." He related to his companion the story of the flood, so that Marcellus might see the
meaning of the representation. "But of all the symbols which are used," said he, "none is so
clear as this," and he pointed to a picture of the resurrection of Lazarus.

"There too," said Honorius, "is an anchor, the sign of hope, by which the Christian, while
tossing amid the stormy billows of life, holds on to his heavenly home.

"There you see the cock, the symbol for watchfulness; for our Lord has said, 'Watch and pray.'
There also is the lamb, the type of innocence and gentleness, which also brings to our mind
the Lamb of God, who bore our sins, and by whose sacrifice we receive pardon. There again is
the dove, which, like the lamb, represents innocence; and yet again you see it bearing the
olive branch of peace.

