The Collections in the Louvre have no such necessary organic connection with Paris itself as
Notre Dame and the Sainte-Chapelle, or even those in the rooms at Cluny. They may, therefore,
be examined by the visitor at any period of his visit that he chooses. I would advise him,
however, whenever he takes them up, to begin with the paintings and then to go on to the Classical
and Renaissance Sculpture. The last-named, at least, he should only examine in connection with
the rest of Renaissance Paris. Also, while it is unimportant whether he takes first Painting
or Sculpture, it is very doubtful that he should take each separately in the chronological order.

At least six days--far more, if possible--should be devoted to the Louvre Collections--by far
the most important objects to be seen in Paris. Of these, four should be assigned to the Paintings,
and one each to the Classical and Renaissance Sculpture. If this is impossible, do not try
to see all; see a little thoroughly. Confine yourself, for Painting, to the Salon Carre and
Gallery VII., and for Sculpture to the Classical Gallery and to the three Western rooms of
the Renaissance collection.

The Madeleine and Champs Elysees

By Nathaniel Hawthorne

[Footnote From "French and Italian Note-Books." By arrangement with the publisher, David McKay.
Copyright, 1880.]

We emerge from the Rue de Grenelle opposite the gardens to the north of the magnificent Hotel
des Invalides, planned by Henri IV., and begun by Louis XIV. in 1671, as a refuge for old soldiers,
who, before it was built, had to beg their bread on the streets.

The institution is under the management of the Minister of War, and nothing can be more comfortable
than the life of its inmates. The number of these is now small; in the time of Napoleon I.,
when the institution was called the "Temple of Mars," it was enormous.

On the terrace in front of the building are a number of cannon, trophies taken in different
campaigns. Standing before the hotel is the statue of Prince Eugene. On either side of the
entrance are statues of Mars and Minerva by Coustou the younger. In the tympanum of the semicircle
over the center of the facade is Louis XIV. on horseback. Behind the facade is a vast courtyard
surrounded by open corridors lined with frescoes of the history of France; those of the early
history on the left by Benedict Masson, 1865, have much interest. In the center of the facade
opposite the entrance is the statue of Napoleon I. Beneath this is the approach to the Church
of St. Louis, built 1671-79, from designs of Liberal Bruant, and in which many banners of victory
give an effect of color to an otherwise colorless building....

The Tomb of Napoleon, under the magnificent dome of the Invalides, which was added to the original
church by Jules Hardouin Mansart, and is treated as a separate building, is entered from the
Place Vauban at the back, or by the left cloister and a court beyond.

On entering the vast interior, a huge circular space is seen to open, beneath the cupola painted
by Charles de Lafosse and Jouvenet, and, in it, surrounded by caryatides and groups of moldering
banners, the huge tomb of Finland granite, given by the Emperor Nicholas. Hither the remains
of the great Emperor were brought back from St. Helena by the Prince de Joinville, in 1841,
tho Louis Philippe, while adopting this popular measure as regarded the dead, renewed the sentence
of exile against the living members of the Bonaparte family.

Four smaller cupolas encircle the great dome. In the first, on the right, is the tomb of Joseph
Bonaparte. On the left are the tombs of Jerome Bonaparte, with a statue, and of his eldest
son and the Princess Catherine of Wurtemberg. The other two cupolas are still empty.

