I was still wrestling on the pavement with the pram, the cot and the rest of it, when Billie's
cries from within the house suddenly ceased. Had the poor little chap burst something? I hurried
indoors and found him--all sunshine after showers--seated on the floor with rocking-horse and
Noah's ark and butcher's shop grouped around him.

"He's quite good now he's got his toys," he assured me, no doubt echoing something Miriam had
just said.

       *       *       *       *       *

I reached my study and collapsed into a chair. What a day! But little by little, shelf upon
shelf, I became aware of the books I had not seen for a whole month: LAMB, my Elizabethans,
a row of STEVENSON. I did not want to read; it was enough to feast one's eyes on their backs,
to take down a volume and handle it my old green-jacketed BROWNING, for instance. And the small
red MEREDITHS all needed rearranging.

A little later I turned round to see Miriam standing in the doorway. Remorse seized me; I put
an arm about her, with--"Tired, old thing?"

She looked down at my books and, half-smiling, she looked up again.

"He's quite good now he's got his toys," she said, and kissed me.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERY PERSONAL.

Just to see what it looks like with my name in it, I have been making a diary of my doings
(some real, some imaginary) in the approved language of the Society and Personal column.

I am Mr. James Milfly. This is how it looks:--

"Yesterday was the fortieth birthday of Mr. James Milfly. He passed it quietly at the office
and at home. No congratulatory messages were received and no replies will be sent."

"Among the outgoing passengers on the paddle steamer Solent Tortoise, on Tuesday, was Mr. James
Milfly. He returned to the mainland the same evening, and will be at Southsea four days longer,
after which, unless he can think of an adequate excuse, he will return to town."

"Mr. James Milfly, who recently sustained a laceration of the finger while cleaning his safety
razor after use, passed another good night. The injured member is healing satisfactorily, and
no further bulletins will be issued."

"The performance of The Bibulous Butler at the Corinthian Theatre last night was witnessed
by Mr. James Milfly and party, who occupied two seats in the eighth row of the pit."

"Mr. James Milfly is a guest for the week-end at Acacia Lodge, Clumpton, the residence of his
old friend, Mr. Albert Purges. Excellent sparrow- shooting was enjoyed after tea on Saturday
in the famous home coverts from which the lodge derives its title."

"Among those unable to be present at the Duchess of Dibdale's reception on Friday was Mr. James
Milfly, no invitation having reached him."

"Mr. James Milfly has been granted his wife's authority to wear on his watch-chain the bronze
medal of the Blimpham Horticultural Society, won by his exhibit of a very large marrow at the
society's recent show."

"Maria, Mrs. Murdon, is visiting her son-in-law, Mr. James Milfly. Her stay is likely to be
a lengthy one."

"Mr. James Milfly will spend the greater part of to-morrow in London. No letters will be forwarded."

Try this for yourself. You have no idea what a sense of pomp and well-fed importance it gives you.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "THE WEATHER.

    'Fair generally: night frosts,' is the forecast for the next 24
    months."--Provincial Paper.

The best news for a long time.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO BRIGHTEN VILLAGE LIFE.

    "The exterior painting of the day school has been completed by the
    Vicar, assisted by the caretaker. Their appearance is greatly improved
    as a result."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "---- HOTEL  DINING-ROOM.

  OPEN TO NON-RESIDENTS WITH ORCHESTRAL ACCOMPANIMENT."--Jersey Paper.

Residents, we understand, need only bring their mouth (and other) organs.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted, 'Cello (could reside in if desired)."--Provincial Paper.

The housing problem solved at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

Smith Minor says he would rather be called Smith Secundus. There is a pleasanter sound about
that qualification just now.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"A Night Out."

Everybody except myself seems to recall the fact that the late farce of this name, adapted
from L'Hôtel du Libre Echange, ran for five hundred nights before it expired. Some restorative
music has now been applied to it and the corpse has revived. Indeed there are the usual signs
of another long run. The trouble is that nearly all the cast at the Winter Garden Theatre seem
to think that, if the play is to run, they must run too. They don't keep still for a moment,
because they dare not. Even Mr. LESLIE HENSON, whose fun would be more effective if he didn't
try so hard, feels that he must be at top pressure all the while with his face and his body
and his words. Yet he could well afford to keep some of his strength in reserve, for he is
a born humourist (in what one might perhaps call the Golliwog vein). But, whether it is that
he underrates his own powers or that he can't contain himself, he keeps nothing in reserve;
and the others, less gifted, follow his lead. They persist in "pressing," as if they had no
confidence in their audience or their various authors or even themselves.

One is, of course, used to this with singers in musical comedy, who make a point of turning
the lyrics assigned to them into unintelligible patter. Perhaps in the present case we lost
little by that, though there was one song (of which I actually heard the words) that seemed
to me to contain the elements of a sound and consoling philosophy. It ran something like this:--

  For you won't be here and I won't be here
    When a hundred years are gone,
  But somebody else will be well in the cart*
    And the world will still go on.

          * Or, alternatively, soup.

Mr. LESLIE HENSON, as I have hinted, allowed himself--and us--no rest. His energy was devastating;
he gave the audience so much for their money that in the retrospect I feel ashamed of not having
paid for my seat. One's taste for him may need acquiring; but, once acquired, there is clearly
no getting away from it. Perhaps his most irresistible moment was when he laid out six policemen
and then meekly surrendered to a female constable who led him off by the ear.

Mr. FRED LESLIE (a name to conjure with!) was almost fiercely emphatic in the part of Paillard,
and I preferred the relatively quiet methods of Mr. AUSTIN MELFORD, who did without italics.
Mr. RALPH ROBERTS was droll as a waiter; and it may have been my fault that I found Mr. DAVY
BURNABY rather unfunny in the part of Matthieu.

Of the ladies, two could sing and two, or even three, could act (Miss LILY ST. JOHN could do
both); nearly all had good looks and a few of them were pleasantly acrobatic.

The scene of the Hotel Pimlico, with an alleged private sitting-room on one side, an alleged
bedroom on the other, and a hall and staircase in the middle, was extraordinarily unconvincing.
The partition walls came to an end at quite a long distance from the front; and, with the general
company spreading themselves at large over the whole width of the foreground, it was very difficult
to entertain any illusion of that privacy which is of the essence of the cabinet particulier.
I say nothing of the bedroom, whose tenancy was frankly promiscuous.

The fun, of course, is old-fashioned; if one may say it of a French farce, it is Victorian.
Apart from a few topical allusions worked in rather perfunctorily there is scarcely anything
said or done that might not have been said or done in the 'eighties. But for a certain type
of Englishman there is a perennial attraction in feeling that at any moment the proprieties
may be outraged. That they never actually are outraged does not seem very greatly to affect
his pleasure. He can always console himself with easy conjecture of the wickedness of the original.
So there will never be wanting a public for these Noctes Parisianæ.

Let us hope that somehow it all helps to keep the sacred flame of the Entente burning. Vive
MILLERAND!

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

BETTERING THE BANYOROS.

(By a Student of Anthropology.)

Sir JAMES FRAZER'S luminous résumé of the investigations of the MACKIE Expedition amongst the
Banyoros has only one defect. He omits all reference to the subsequent and even more fruitful
visit of the Expedition to the adjoining Noxas tribe, whose manners and customs are of extraordinary
interest. This remarkable race are noted not merely for their addiction to the dance, but for
the kaleidoscopic rapidity with which the dances themselves are changed from season to season.
Only a few years ago the entire tribe were under the spell of the Ognat, which in turn gave
place to the Tortskof and the Zaj, the last named being an exercise in which violent contortions
of the body were combined with the profoundest melancholy of facial expression. Curiously enough
the musicians who are employed at these dances are not of indigenous stock, but of a negroid
type and are imported from a distance at high salaries.

The literary gifts of this singular tribe are on a par with their saltatory talent, but are
at present mainly occupied in the keeping of personal records, led therein by a chieftainess
named Togram, in which the conversations, peculiarities, complexions and dresses of their friends
are set down and described with ferocious bonhomie. The tablets containing these records are
then posted up in conspicuous places of resort, with the most stimulating and entertaining results.

It is noteworthy that the ruler of the country is not chosen from the dancing or Bunihugoro
section of the community, but from the powerful Renim clan, who devote themselves intermittently
to the task of providing the country with fuel. The chieftain wields great power and is regarded
with reverence by his followers, but is in turn expected to devote himself entirely to their
interests, and if he fails to satisfy is promptly replaced by a more energetic leader. As the
great bulk of the community yield allegiance to an hereditary sovereign of strictly defined
powers this interesting country offers the agreeable spectacle of a state in which the dulness
of constitutional government is happily tempered by the delights of industrial dictatorship.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO CERTAIN CAUTIOUS PROPHETS.

(Suggested by the almost invariable form of the last sentence in the Weather Report.)

  Ye watchers of the wind and rain,
    Forgive me for becoming nettled
  By your monotonous refrain:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  When, on a bright and sunlit morn,
    I rise refreshed and finely fettled
  Your cue is not to cheer but warn:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  They are too rare, these halcyon days,
    When earth's a paradise  rose-petalled,
  For you to chill us with a phrase:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  Too often have I shirked the goal
    At which (as Scotsmen say) I ettled,
  Discouraged by your words of dole:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  For instance, lately I resigned
    A trip to Shetland to be shettled;
  Your menace made me change my mind:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  Henceforth I'm going to defy
    You and your breed, inert, unmettled,
  Who chant that sad Cassandra cry:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

  Ay, if I held untrammelled sway
    I'd have you bottled up and kettled
  Like djinns, until you ceased to say:
    "The further outlook is unsettled."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PIGS.

"Pigs pays," said Mrs. Pugsley.

"So I have heard."

"Pigs always pays; but Pugsley's pigs pays prodigious."

I rejoiced with her.

"Took 'em up sudden, he did; and now that interested! You'd never think that pigs 'ld twine
themselves round a man's heart, so to speak, would you?"

"No."

"That's how it is with Willum. Reads nothing but about pigs; they'm his only joy. In partnership
with Uncle Eli over them. First time Uncle Eli took to anything wholesome in his life. When
Willum loses a pig he's that low that he puts on a black tie. Wonnerful!"

It was. I knew Willum, otherwise Uncle Billy, and something about his tastes. I had the pleasure
of meeting him on the foreshore that afternoon. No doubt he was studying pigs; but the title
of the book he had in his hand was Form at a Glance.

"Pig form, I presume," said I politely.

"Now then, Missie, don't go giving me away. All's lovely at home. Me and Uncle Eli has clubbed
together to buy Bodger's racing tips. Bodger's got brain. Doing very well, we are. Sure, I
can't tell the missus, and she a Plymouth Rock."

"Isn't it Plymouth Sister?"

"Maybe; but I think there's a rock in it somewhere. Anyway we agreed when we married to keep
our purses in the same drawer, and mine's bulging."

"You are a brave man, Uncle Billy. What about the day she will want to see your pigs?"

"A thought that wakes me at night. We keep 'em out in the country, I'd have you know. There,
why take a fence before you come to it? There'll be wisdom given."

Apparently there was, but the address from which the wisdom came was indistinct.

"Willum," said Mrs. Pugsley one day, "to-morrow I'm coming to see they pigs of yours; bless
their fat sides!"

"You shall, my tender dear," said Uncle Billy. "Yes, to-morrow noon you'll see the blessed things."

Almost at dawn he presented himself at Farmer Dodge's and astonished that good man by asking
to be allowed to hire a few pigs for the day.

Farmer Dodge scratched his head.

"Well, I've been asked to loan out most things in my time, but never pigs before. Where be
taking them?"

"Home."

"That's a matter of better than two miles. Have 'ee thought of the wear and tear and the loss
of good lard? No, Uncle Billy, I won't fly against the will of Heaven. If pigs had been meant
to go for walks they'd have had legs according. Their legs hain't for walking; they'm for hams."

Uncle Billy drew near and explained. Farmer Dodge grinned.

"To do down your missus? Well, I like a jest as well as any, and to put females in their place
is meat and taties to me; but 'tis a luxury, and luxury is what you like but can do without."

In the end Uncle Billy drove a bargain by which he secured the use of six pigs for a few hours
and paid three shillings per pig. For three-and-six he also hired the help of a boy to drive
them; as he remarked, he could have had more than another pig for that money, but it would
be warm work for him alone.

The inhabitants of the houses on the terrace of the little sea-side town where the Pugsleys
lived were thrilled at noon by the arrival of a small herd of swine. The animals looked rather
tired but settled down contentedly in the front-garden of No. 3.

Mrs. Pugsley, hearing their voices, came to the door.

"Why, Willum, I was just making ready to come out with you to go and see them."

"My tender dear," he said with emotion, "would I let you be taken miles in this heat to see
the finest pigs ever littered? No. 'Tis not for my wife to go to see pigs, 'tis for pigs to
come to see my wife. Here they be. That's Spion Kop, the big black one--called because 'tis
the highest mountain in America and he's to make the highest price. The pink one is Square
Measure, for he'll eat his own size in meal any day. That's Diadem--no, it's not; Diadem lost--I
should say Diadem's lost to us." Uncle Billy lifted his hat reverently. "The ginger one is
Comrade--a fine name."

"Why, 'tis a little sow."

"And what better comrade than a blessed female, my loving dear, and who'd know that better
than me?"

"Don't you go mixing me up with the pigs, Willum; I won't have it. What's the name of that
perky black one?"

"Mount Royal," said Uncle Billy. "I'm a KING'S man and like to respect they set over me. Royal
just means one of the KING'S family."

The parade was dismissed; the herd returned to its home and Uncle Billy paid the cost of wear
and tear.

He sat smoking that evening in a state of blissful content. All had gone well; the dreaded
black moment was over. Mrs. Pugsley knitted furiously in silence.

"Now what might you be turning over in that mind of yours?" asked Uncle Billy.

"Pigs."

"Couldn't do better."

"And their names. Maybe you won't christen any more until after the Cesarewitch."

She folded up her knitting and went to bed, leaving Uncle Billy as if turned to stone. When
he recovered he sought out Uncle Eli and said:--

"Eli, she's known all along. She knowed when I was driving they brasted pigs here in the heat.
She's never been took in at all. And that's a woman. That's what married me."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It would be wrong to enter upon political questions in these pages,
    but there can be no harm in suggesting that prayer should be made as
    much for our rulers at Westminster as for people in Ireland. The
    Collect, with certain alterations, for Those at Sea would seem
    especially suitable."--Exeter Diocesan Gazette.

Very neatly and clerically put.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

Undeniably ours is an age in which fond memory fills not only the heart of man but the shelves
of the circulating libraries to a degree bordering upon excess. But, let reminiscences be even
more frequent than they are, there would yet remain a welcome for such a book as Mr. W.H. MALLOCK'S
attractive Memoirs of Life and Literature (CHAPMAN AND HALL). The reason of this lies not more
in the interest of what is told than in the fact that these memories have the advantage of
being recalled by one who is master of a singularly engaging pen. Nothing in the book better
displays its quality of charm than the opening chapters, with their picture of an old-world
Devonshire, and in particular the group of related houses in which the boyhood of the future
anti-socialist was so delightfully spent. Gracious homes have always had a special appeal to
the author of The New Republic, as you are here reminded in a score of happy recollections.
Then comes Oxford, and that meeting with SWINBURNE in the Balliol drawing-room that seems to
have been the common experience of memoir-writers. Some entertaining chapters give a cheerful
picture of London life when Mr. MALLOCK entered it, and Society, still Polite, opened its most
exclusive doors to the young explorer. The rest of the book is devoted to a record of friendships,
travel, an analysis of the writer's literary activities, and a host of good stories. A book
of singular fragrance and individuality.

The Victorians used to talk, perhaps do still, about the lure of the stage; but I am inclined
to suppose this was as nothing beside the lure of the stage-novel. All our writers apparently
feel it, and in most cases their bones whiten the fields of failure. But amongst those of whom
this certainly cannot be said is Mr. HORACE A. VACHELL, whose new book, The Fourth Dimension
(MURRAY), has both pleased and astonished me by its freedom from those defects that so often
ruin the theatrical story. For one thing, of course, the explanation of this lies in my sustaining
confidence that I was being handed out the genuine stuff. When a dramatist of Mr. VACHELL'S
experience says that stage-life is thus and thus, well, I have to believe him. As a fact I
seldom read so convincing a word-picture of that removed and esoteric existence. The title
(not too happy) means the world beyond the theatre, that which so many players count well lost
for the compensations of applause and fame; and the story is of a young and phenomenally successful
actress, Jess Yeo, in whom the claims of domesticity and the love of her dramatist husband
are shown in conflict with the attractions of West-End stardom and photographs in the illustrated
papers. Eventually--but I suppose I can hardly tell that without spoiling for you what goes
before the event. Anyhow, if I admit that the ending did not inspire me with any sanguine hope
of happiness ever after, it at least put a pleasant finish on an attractive and successful tale.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Mountains (MACMILLAN) is one of those pleasant books of which the best review would
be a long string of quotations, and that is a very complimentary thing to say about any novel.
Written in diary form, on the whole successfully, it tells little of doing and much of being,
and a great deal more of feeling than of either. It is scarcely necessary after that to add
that it is discursive. As a matter of fact I found that for me that half of its charm which
did not lie in being whisked off, as it were by magic, to sit in the sunshine of Switzerland
lay in its author's reflections upon subjects quite unconnected with her story, and as far
apart from each other as LAW'S Serious Call and the effect of different kinds of underclothing
on the outward demeanour of the wearer. From the human document point of view it is as a picture
of the convalescence of a soul sick with grief that In the Mountains deserves attention. I
cannot imagine that anyone who has ever got well again after sorrow will fail to recognise
its truth. The little mystery and the slender love-story which hold the discursiveness together
are just sufficient but so slight that they shall not even be hinted at here. For the rest
the book is whimsical, thoughtful, sentimental by turns and, in spite of its tolerance, a shade
superior; with now and then a phrase which left me wondering whether a blushing cheek would
deserve the Garter motto's rebuke; in fact it resembles more than anything else on earth what
the "German garden" of a certain "Elizabeth" might grow into if she transplanted it to a Swiss
mountain-top.

       *       *       *       *       *

Peregrine in Love (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is a story whose sentimental title does it considerably
less than justice. It gives no indication of what is really an admirably vivacious comedy of
courtship and intrigue, with a colonial setting that is engagingly novel. Miss C. FOX SMITH
seems to know Victoria and the island of Vancouver with the intimacy of long affection; her
pen-pictures and her idiom are both of them convincingly genuine. The result for the reader
is a twofold interest, half in seeing what will be to most an unfamiliar place under expert
guidance, half in the briskly moving intrigue supposed to be going on there. I say "supposed,"
because, to be frank, Miss FOX SMITH'S story, good fun as it is, hardly convinces like her
setting. You may, for example, feel that you have met before in fiction the lonely hero who
rescues the solitary maiden, his shipmate, from undesirable society, and falls in love with
her, only to learn that she is voyaging to meet her betrothed. At this point I suppose most
novel-readers would have given fairly long odds against the betrothed in question keeping the
appointment, and I may add that they would have won their money. Not that Peregrine was going
to find the course of his love run smooth in spite of this; being a hero and a gentleman he
had for one thing to try, and keep on trying, to bring the affianced pair together, and thus
provide the tale with another than its clearly predestined end. Of course he doesn't succeed,
but the attempt furnishes capital entertainment for everybody concerned, and proves that Mr.
Punch's "C.F.S." can write prose too.

       *       *       *       *       *

The title of Gold Must be Tried by Fire (MACMILLAN) might be called axiomatic for the precise
type of fiction represented by the story. Because, if gold hadn't to be tried by fire, you
might obviously marry the hero and heroine on the first page and save everybody much trouble
and expense. Mr. RICHARD AUMERLE MAHER, however, knows his job better than that. True, he marries
his heroine early, but to the wrong man, the Labour leader and crook, Will Lewis, who vanishes
just before the entrance of the strong but unsilent hero, only to reappear (under an alias)
in time to get shot in a strike riot. Mr. MAHER'S book comes, as you may already have guessed,
from that great country where they have replaced alcohol by sugar, and where (perhaps in consequence)
heroines of such super-sentimentality as Daidie Grattan have no terrors for them. Personally
I found her and her exploits on burning ships, besieged mills and the like a trifle sticky.
For the rest you have some interesting details of the workings of the paper industry; a style
that to the unfamiliar eye is at times startling (as when, on page 282, the hero's head "snapped
erect"); and lots and lots of love. As for the ending, to relieve any apprehensions on your
part, let me quote it. "Taking her swiftly in his arms, he questioned: 'Has the gold come free
from the fire at last, my darling?' 'Gold or dross,' she whispered as she yielded, 'it is your
own.'" Ah!

       *       *       *       *       *

Love's Triumph (METHUEN) is concerned to a great extent with the development of a raw Kentucky
lad into an attractive and resourceful man; but its chief interest lies rather with his trainer.
When Victor McCalloway arrived in Kentucky and took Boone Wellver under his wing it became
obvious enough that he was bent on reconstructing his own life as well as moulding Boone's.
McCalloway, when the seal of his past is broken, turns out to be Sir Hector Dinwiddie, D.S.O.,
K.C.B., a tradesman's son who was generally believed to have killed himself in Paris. I must
assume that Mr. CHARLES NEVILLE BUCK intended us to recognise in Sir Hector a certain General
whose name acquired a painful notoriety not so long ago. The reader may form what opinion he
likes of the good taste of all this, but there can be no question that the author has drawn
a fine character. At the outset his style is so jumpy that the story is difficult to follow,
but presently its course grows clearer and I fancy that you will follow it keenly, as I did,
to the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

STRENUOUS LIFE IN THE WEST.

    "At a charity concert at Clifton recently nearly 200 glass tumblers
    disappeared in the course of a week."--Daily Paper.

Very deplorable, of course. Still, towards the end of the sixth consecutive day would the audience
be fully responsible?