ADVENTURES OF A LONE WOMAN.

"I will go and see the oil," remarked Miselle, at the end of a reverie of ten minutes.

Caleb laid the "Morning Journal" upon the table, and prepared himself calmly to accept whatever
new dispensation Providence and Miselle had allotted him.

"Whaling?" inquired he.

"No, not whaling. I am going to the Oil Springs."

"By all means. They lie in the remotest portion of Pennsylvania; they are inaccessible by railway;
such conveyances and such wretched inns as are to be found are crowded with lawless men, rushing
to the wells to seek their fortunes, or rushing away, savage at having utterly lost them. At
this season the roads are likely to be impassable from mud, the weather to be stormy. When
do you propose going?"

"Next Monday," replied Miselle, serenely.

"And with whom? You know that I cannot accompany you."

"I did not dream of incurring such a responsibility. I go alone."

Caleb resumed the "Morning Journal." Miselle wrote a letter, signed her name, and tossed it
across the table, saying,--

"There, I have written to Friend Williams, who has, as his sister tells me, set up a shanty
and a wife on Oil Creek. I will go to them and so avoid your wretched inns, and at the same
time secure a guide competent to conduct my explorations. As for the conveyances, the roads,
and the lawless travellers, if men are not afraid to encounter them, surely a woman need not be."

"Be cautious, Miselle. This grain of practicability in the shape of Friend Williams is spoiling
the unity of your plan. At first it was a charmingly consistent absurdity."

"But now?"

"Now it is merely foolishly hazardous, and I suppose you will undertake it. It is your kismet;
it is Fate; and what am I, to resist Destiny? Go, child,--my blessing and my bank-book are
your own."

"And 'Je suis Tedesco!'" pompously quoted Miselle; so no more was said upon the subject, until
the young woman, having received an answer to her letter, claimed the treasures promised by
Caleb, and shortly after fared forth upon her adventurous way.

The journey from Boston to New York has for most persons lost the excitement of novelty; but
excitement of another sort is to be obtained by choosing a route where mile after mile of the
roadway is lined with wrecks of recent accidents, and the papers sold in the cars brim over
with horrible details of death and maiming in consequence. Nor can it be considered either
wholesome or comfortable to be removed in the middle of a November night from a warm car to
a ferry-boat, and thence to another train of cars without fire and almost without seats,--the
suggestive apology being, that so many carriages had been "smashed" lately that the enterprising
managers of the road had been obliged to buy an old excursion-train from another company. Meantime,
what became of the unfortunate women who had no kind companion to purvey for them blankets
and pillows from the mephitic sleeping-car, and cups of hot tea from unknown sources, Miselle
cannot conjecture.

New York at midday, from the standpoint of Fifth Avenue or Central Park, is a very splendid
and attractive place, we shall all agree; but New York involved in a wilderness of railway
station at six o'clock of a rainy autumn morning is quite the reverse. Cabmen, draymen, porters,
all assume a new ferocity of bearing, horses are more cruelly lashed, ignorant wayfarers more
crushingly snubbed, new trunks more recklessly smashed, than would be possible at a later hour
of the day; and that large class of persons who may be denominated intermittent gentlemen fold
up their politeness with their travelling-shawls and put it away for a future occasion.

Solaced by a breakfast and rest, Miselle bade good-bye to her attentive escort, and set forth
alone to view New York with the critical eye of a Bostonian.

Her first experience was significant; and in the course of a three-mile drive down Broadway,
she had time, while standing in the middle of an omnibus, where were seated nine young gentlemen,
for much complacent comparison of the manners of the two cities. Indeed, after twelve hours
of attentive study, Miselle discovered but two points of superiority in the New Babylon over
the Modern Athens, and these were chocolate-creams and policemen: the first were delicious,
the last civil.

Six o'clock arrived, and the "Lightning Express," over the Erie Railway, bore, among other
less important freight, Miselle and her fortunes. But, unfortunately for the interest of this
narrative, she had unwittingly selected an "off-night" for her journey; neither horrible accident
nor raid of bold marauders enlivened the occasion; and undisturbed, the reckless passengers
slept throughout the night, as men have slept who knew that a scaffold waited for them with
the morning's light.

Only Miselle could not rest. The steady rapidity of motion,--the terrible power of this force
that man has made his own, and yet not so wholly his own but that it may at any moment break
from his control, asserting itself master,--the dim light and motionless figures about her,--all
these things wrought upon her fancy, until, through the gray mist of morning, great round hills
stood up at either hand with deep valleys between, from whose nestling hamlets lights began
to twinkle out as if great swarms of fireflies sheltered there. Then, as morning broke, the
wild scenery, growing more distinct, told the traveller that she was far from home.

Gray and craggy hills, wild ravines, stormy mountain-streams, dizzy heights where the traveller
looking down remembered Tarpeia, gloomy caverns, suggesting Simms's theory of an interior world,--none
of these were homelike; and Miselle began to fancy herself an explorer, a Franklin, a Frémont,
a Speke, until the train stopped at Hornellsville for breakfast, and she was reminded, while
watching the operations of her fellow-passengers, of Du Chaillu peeping from behind tree-trunks
at the domestic pursuits of the gorilla.

About noon the cars stopped at Corry, Pennsylvania, the entrance of the oil region and terminus
of the Oil Creek Railway; and Miselle, stepping from the train into a dense cloud of driving
rain and oily men, felt one sudden pang of doubt as to her future course, and almost concluded
it should be to await upon the platform the Eastern-bound express due there in a few hours.
This dastardly impulse, however, was speedily put to flight by the superior terror of the ridicule
sure to greet such a return, and, assuming a determined mien, Miselle took possession of Corry.

Three years ago the census of this place would have given so many foxes, so many woodchucks,
so many badgers, raccoons, squirrels, and tree-toads; now it numbers four thousand men, women,
and children, and the "old families" have withdrawn to the aristocratic seclusion of the forest
beyond.

For the accommodation of these newcomers a thousand buildings of various sorts have been erected,--much
as a child takes his toy-village from the box and sets it here or there, as the whim of the
moment dictates. Here is also a large oil-refinery belonging to Mr. Downer of Boston, where
a good many of the four thousand find employment; and here, too, are several inns, the best
one called "The Boston House."

Hither Miselle betook herself, confidently expecting to find either Mr. Williams or a message
from him awaiting her; but, behold, no friend, no letter!

What was to be done next? Mr. Dick, asked a similar question by Miss Betsy Trotwood, replied,
"Feed him."

Miselle adopted the suggestion. The hour was one P. M., and the general repast was concluded;
but a special table was soon prepared, whereat she and a gentleman of imposing appearance,
called Viator Ignotus, were soon seated, before a dinner, of which the intention was excellent,
but the execution as fatal as most executions.

Viator ate in silence, occasionally startling his companion by wild plunges across the table,
knife in hand. At first she was inclined to believe him a dangerous madman; but finding that
the various dishes, and not herself, were the objects of attack, she refrained from flight,
and considerately pushed everything within convenient stabbing distance of the blade, which
unweariedly continued to wave in glittering curves from end to end of the table long after
she had finished.

The banquet over, Miselle found the drawing-room, and in company with a woman, a girl, a baby,
and a lawless stove, devoted herself to the study of Corry as seen through a window streaming
with rain. Tired at last of this exhilarating pursuit, she engaged in single combat with the
stove, and, being signally beaten, resolved to try a course of human nature as developed in
her companions.

She soon learned that the girl was in reality a matron of seventeen, and the actual proprietor
of the baby, whom, nevertheless, she appeared to regard as a mysterious phenomenon attached
to the elder woman, whom she addressed as "Mam." In this view the grandmother seemed to coincide,
and remarked, naïvely,--

"Why, lor, Ma'am, she and her husband a'n't nothing but two babies theirselves. She ha'n't
never been away from her folks, nor he from hisn, till t'other day he got bit with the ile-fever,
and nothing would do but to tote down here to the Crik and make his fortin. They was chirk
enough when they started; but about a week ago he come home, and I tell you he sung a little
smaller than when he was there last. He was clean discouraged; there wa'n't no ile to be had,
'thout you'd got money enough to live on, to start with; and victuals and everything else was
so awful dear, a poor man would get run out 'fore he'd realized the fust thing; wust of all
was, Clementiny was so homesick she couldn't neither sleep nor eat; and the amount was, he'd
stop 'long with father in the shop, and I should go and fetch home the two babies. So here
I be, and a time I've had gittin' 'em along, I tell you."

"It's hard travelling down Oil Creek, then?" asked Miselle, with a personal interest in the
question.

"Hard! Reckon you'll say that, arter you've tried it. How fur be you going?"

"To Tarr Farm."

"Lor, yes. Well now how d'y' allow to git there?"

"I am hoping to meet a friend here who will know all about the way; but if he fails me, I shall
ask the people at the railway station."

"No need to go so fur. I kin tell ye the hull story, for it's from Tarr Farm I fetched the
gal and young 'un this very morning."

"Indeed? What is the best route, then?"

"Well, you'll take the railroad down to Schaeffer's, and from there you start down the Crik
either in a stage or a boat. But I wouldn't recommend the stage nohow. You don't look so very
rugged, and if you wa'n't killed, you'd be scared to death. So you'll hev to look up a boat."

"What sort of boat?" asked Miselle, faintly.

"Oh, a flatboat. They come up loaded with ile, and going back they like fust rate to catch
a passenger. But don't you give 'em too much. They'd cheat you out of your eye-teeth, but I'll
bet you they found I was too many for 'em. Don't you give more than a dollar, nohow; and I
made 'em take the two of us for a dollar 'n' 'alf."

"How far is it from Schaeffer's to Tarr Farm? Perhaps I could walk," suggested Miselle, modestly
distrusting her own power in dealing with a rapacious flatboatman.

"Well, it's five mild, more or less. Think you could foot it that fur?"

"Oh, yes, very easily. Is the road pretty good?"

"My gracious goodness! Clementiny, she wants to know if the road down the Crik is 'pretty good'!"

"Reckon you ha'n't travelled round much in these parts. Where d'y' b'long?" asked the ingenuous
Clementina, after a prolonged stare at the benighted stranger.

Having satisfied herself for the time being with human nature, Miselle returned to the window,
and found the landscape mistier than ever.

She was still considering her probable success in finding an oil-boat and an oil-man to take
her down the Creek, and steadily turning her back upon the vision of the Eastern-bound Lightning
Express, when a lady followed by a gentleman ran up the steps of the Boston House, and presently
entered the dreary parlor, transforming it, as she did so, to a cheerful abiding-place, by
the magic of youth, beauty, and grace. Miselle devoured her with her eyes, as did Crusoe the
human footstep on his desert island. An answering glance, a suppressed smile on either side,
and an understanding was established, an alliance completed, a tie more subtile than Freemasonry
confessed.

In ten minutes Miselle and her new friend had conquered the lawless stove, had seated themselves
before it, and were confiding to each other the mischances that had left them stranded upon
the shore of Corry,--Miselle for the night, Melusina until two o'clock in the morning.

Tea-time surprised this interchange of ideas, and so sunny had Miselle's mood become that she
was able to eat and drink, even though confronted by the baby and its youthful mother, whose
knife impartially deposited in her own mouth and the infant's portions of beefsteak, potatoes,
short-cake, toast, pie, and cake, varied with spoonfuls of hot tea, at which the wretched little
victim blinked and choked, but still swallowed.

After tea, the infant, excited by refreshment nearly to the point of convulsions, was restored
to its grandmother, while the mother played upon a mournful instrument called a melodeon, and
sang various popular songs in a powerful, but uncultivated voice.

When she was done, Miselle persuaded Melusina to take her seat at the instrument, and straightway
the house was filled with such melody of sweet German love-songs, operatic morcaux, and stirring
battle-hymns, that the open doorway thronged with uncouth forms, gathering as did the monsters
to Arion's harp. But when at last the clear voice rang out the melody of the "Star-Spangled
Banner," the crowd took up the chorus, and rendered it with a heartfelt enthusiasm more significant
than any music; for it was almost election-day, and the old query of "How will Pennsylvania
go?" had all day been urged among every knot of men who gathered to talk of the country's prospects.
Then came the good old "John Brown Song," and the "Marseillaise," which should be snatched
from its Rebel appropriators, on the same principle by which Doctor Byles adapted sacred words
to popular melodies.

The music over, the little crowd dispersed, and the baby, with its brace of mothers, gone to
bed, the new friends sat cozily down and enjoyed an hour or two of feminine gossip, exchanged
kisses, cards, and photographs, and so bade good-bye.

It seems a trifling matter enough in the telling, but to the lonely Miselle this chance encounter
with a comrade was enough to change the whole aspect of affairs; and she sat down to breakfast
the next morning, strong in the faith of a brilliant victory over bad roads, oily boats, and
rapacious boatmen.

A plank walk from the hotel to the station elevates the foot-passenger in Corry above the mud
of the streets, through whose depths flounders a crowd of wagons laden with crude oil for the
refinery, with refined oil for the freight-trains, with carboys of chemicals, with merchandise,
and with building materials for yet more houses.

Everything here is new. Not one of the thousand buildings is yet five years old; and of the
four thousand people, not the most easily acclimated could yet tell how the climate agrees
with him. Indeed, it is so absolutely new that it has not yet reached the raw barrenness of
a new place.

Nature does not cede her royalty except under strong compulsion, and still does battle in the
streets of Corry with the four thousand, who have not yet found time to get out the stumps
of the hastily felled trees, to "improve" a wild water-course that dashes down from the bluff
and crosses the main street between a tailor's shop and a restaurant, or even to trample to
death the wildwood ferns and forest flowers which linger on its margin. When the Coriolanians
have attended to these little matters, their city will look even newer than at present. Then
shall their grandchildren bring other trees and set them along the streets, and dig wells and
fountains, where Kuhleborn may rise to bemoan the desolation of his ancient domain.

Probably from sympathy with the bulk of their freight, the passenger-cars upon the Oil Creek
Railway are so streaked with oil upon the outside, and so imbued with oil within, as to suggest
having been used on excursions to the bottoms of the various wells; but uninviting as is their
appearance, they are always crowded, and Miselle shared her seat with a portly gentleman, whom
at the second glance she recognized as Viator Ignotus, and he, presently alluding to the fact
of their having dined together the previous day, a conversation grew up, through which Miselle,
much to her amusement, was initiated into the cabinet secrets of the two or three railway companies
who divide the travel of the West, and who would appear to cherish very much the same jealousies
and avenge their grievances in much the same manner as Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Brown with their
neighborhood quarrels. Then Viator, producing from his pocket sundry maps and charts, foretold
the career of railways yet unborn, and discoursed learnedly upon their usefulness, or, as he
phrased it, their "paying prospects." Finally, the subject of railways exhausted, or rather
run out, Viator paid his companion the compliment of inquiring of her the condition of public
feeling in her native State as regarded the election; and the affairs of the nation were not
yet completely arranged when the train arrived at Titusville, and Viator departed.

The city of Titusville is probably the most forlorn and dreary looking place in these United
States. To describe the irregular rows of shanties bordering on impassable sloughs of mud,
the scenery, the pigs, and the people, were a thankless task, as the most eloquent words would
fall short of the reality. In one of the principal streets the blackened stumps still stand
so thickly that the laden wagons meander among them as sinuously as the path which foxes and
squirrels wore there only three years ago,--while in curious contrast with this avenue and
the surrounding buildings stands a handsome brick church, with a gilded cross upon its spire,
the one thing calm and steadfast in the dismal scene.

When the train again moved on, the seat vacated by Viator was taken by a young woman bound
for Oil City, where her husband awaited her; but the homesickness epidemic among the female
population of the Creek had already seized upon her so strongly as to unfit her for conversation;
and Miselle devoted herself to the dismal landscape, privately agreeing with her companion
that it was "the God-forsakenest-looking place she ever see."

On either side the road lay swamps, their gaunt trees festooned, or rather garroted, with vines,
and draped with gray moss; while all about and among them lay their comrades already prostrate
and decaying. On the higher lands fields had been fenced in, and cleared by burning the trees,
whose charred skeletons still stood, holding black and fleshless arms to heaven in mute appeal
against man's reckless abuse of Nature's dearest children.

Later Miselle took occasion to express her horror at the wholesale destruction of her beloved
forests to a land-owner of the region. He laughed, and stared at the sentimental folly, and
then said, conclusively,--

"Oh, but the land, you know,--we want to get at the land; and the quickest way of disposing
of the trees is the best."

"But even if they must be felled, it is wicked to destroy them entirely, when so many people
freeze to death every winter for want of fuel."

"Well, I suppose they do," said the land-owner, suppressing a yawn. "But we can't send them
this wood, you know, or even get it down Oil Creek, where there is a market."

"At least, the poor people about here need never be cold. I suppose fuel is very cheap through
all this country, isn't it?"

"Down the Creek we pay ten dollars a cord for all the wood, and a dollar a bushel for all the
coal we burn, and both grow within a mile of the wells; but the trouble is the labor. Every
man about here is in oil, somehow or another; and even the farmers back of the Creek prefer
bringing their horses down and teaming oil to working the land or felling wood. This is emphatically
the oil region."

Arrived at Schaeffer's or Shaffer's Farm, the present terminus of the Oil Creek Railway, Miselle
was relieved from much anxiety by seeing upon the platform Friend Williams, to whom she had,
in a fit of temporary insanity, written that she should leave home on Tuesday instead of Monday.

"And how shall we go down the Creek?" asked she, when the first greetings had been exchanged.

"In the packet-boat, to be sure. The hack-carriage will take us right down to the wharf."

Miselle opened her eyes. Here was metropolitan luxury! Here was ultra civilization in the heart
of the wilderness! Oil-boats and lumber-wagons, avaunt! Those women at Corry had evidently
been practising upon her ignorance, and amusing themselves with her terrors!

A sudden rush of citizens toward the edge of the platform interrupted these meditations.

"What is it?" asked Miselle, wildly, as her companion seized her arm, and hurried her along
with the crowd.

"The carriage. There is a rush for places. There! we're too late, I'm afraid."

They halted, as he spoke, beside a long, heavy wagon, such as is used in the Eastern States
for drawing wood, springless, with boards laid across for seats, and with no means of access
save the clumsy wheels. Upon an elevated perch in front sat the driver, grinning over his shoulder
at the scrambling crowd of passengers, most of whom were now loaded upon the wagon, while a
circle of disappointed aspirants danced wildly around it, looking for a yet possible nook or
cranny.

"Can't you make room for this lady? I will walk," vociferated Mr. Williams.

"Can't be did, Capting. Reckin, though, both on ye kin hitch on next load," drawled the driver,
turning his horses into the slough of mud extending in every direction.

"I will walk with you. How far is it?" asked Miselle, after a brief contemplation of the prospect.

"Not so very far; but the mud is about two feet deep all the way, and you might soil your feet,"
suggested Mr. Williams, with a quizzical smile.

The objection was unanswerable; and Miselle, folding herself in the mantle of resignation,
waited until the next troubling of the pool, when, rushing with the rest, she was safely hoisted
into the cart, and the drive commenced.

"You had better cling to my arm here; it's a mud-hole; don't be frightened," exclaimed Mr.
Williams, as the horses suddenly disappeared from view, and the wagon poised itself an instant
on the edge of a chasm, and then plunged madly after them.

"Heavens! what has happened? Have they run away? Didn't the driver see where they were going?
There! we're going o--ver!" shrieked Miselle.

"No, no; we're all right now, don't you see? The poor nags aren't likely to run much here;
and though the driver saw it well enough, he couldn't help going through. That's a fair specimen
of the road all down the Creek. Now here's a gully. Cling to me, and don't be frightened."

It is very easy to say, "Don't be frightened"; but when a wagon with four wheels travels for
a considerable distance upon only two, while those on the upper side are spinning round in
the air, and the whole affair inclines at a right angle toward a bottomless gulf of mud, it
is rather difficult for a nervous person to heed the injunction.

Miselle did not shriek this time; but she fancies the "sable score of fingers four remain on
the" arm "impressed," to which she clung during the ordeal.

Another plunge, a lurch, a twist, a sharp descent, and the breathless horses halted on the
bank of a stream whose shallow waters were crowded with flatboats, generally laden with oil.

"Here is the packet-boat," remarked Mr. Williams, with mischievous smile, as he lifted his
charge from the "hack-carriage," and led her toward one of these boats, a trifle dirtier than
the rest, with planks laid across for seats, and several inches of water in the bottom. In
shape and size it much resembled the mud-scows navigating the waters of Back Bay, Boston, and
was propelled by a gigantic paddle at either end.

Miselle's lingering vision of a neat little steamboat with a comfortable cabin died away; and
she placed herself without remark upon the board selected for her, accepting from her attentive
companion the luxury of a bit of plank for her feet,--an invidious distinction, regarded with
much disapproval by her fellow-passengers.

The sad and homesick lady was again Miselle's nearest neighbor, and now found her tongue in
expressions of dismay and apprehension so vehement and sincere that her auditor hardly knew
whether to weep with her or smile at her.

Fifty luckless souls, more or less decently clothed in bodies, having been crowded upon the
raft, the shore-line was cast off, and she drifted magnificently out into the stream, and stuck
fast about a rod from the landing.

The most terrific oaths, the most strenuous exertion of the paddles, failing to move her, "a
team" was loudly called for by the irate passengers, and presently appeared in the shape of
two horses with a small blue boy perched upon one of them. These were hitched to the forward
part of the boat, and the swearing and pushing recommenced, with an accompaniment of slashing
blows upon the backs of the unfortunate horses, who strained and plunged, but all to no effect,
until another boat appeared round the bend, slowly towed up against the stream by two more
horses with a placid driver, whose less placid wife sat upon a throne of oil-barrels in the
centre of the craft, alternately smoking a clay pipe and shouting profane instructions to her
husband touching the management of the boat. To this dual boatman the skipper of the packet
loudly appealed for aid, desiring him to "crowd along and give us a swell."

"What in nater was ye sich a cussed fool as ter git stuck fer?" replied the two heads; and
in spite of the disapproval conveyed by the question, the stranger boat was driven as rapidly
as possible close beside the packet, the result being a long wave or "swell," enabling that
luckless craft to float off into the deeper water.

"Now, gen'lemen, locate, if you please; please to locate, gen'lemen! You capting with the specs
on, ef yer don't sit down, I'll hev to ax yer to," vociferated the skipper; and the passengers
were nearly seated when the boat grounded again, and was this time got off only by the aid
of a double team, a swell, and the shoulders of the captain and several of the passengers,
who walked in and out of the boat as recklessly as Newfoundland dogs. After this style, the
passage of five miles was handsomely accomplished in six hours, and it was the gloaming of
a November day when Miselle, cold, wet, and weary, first set foot, or rather both her feet,
deep in the mud of Tarr Farm, and clambered through briers and scrub oak up the bluff, where
stood her friend's house, and where the panacea of "a good cup of tea and a night's rest" soon
closed the eventful day.

The next morning was meant for an artist, and it is to be hoped that there was one at Tarr
Farm to see the curtain of fog slowly lifting from the bright waters of the Creek, and creeping
up the bluff beyond it, until it melted into the clear blue sky, and let the sunshine come
glancing down the valley, where groups of derricks, long lines of tanks, engine-houses, counting-rooms
replaced the forest growth of a few years previous, and crowds of workmen, interspersed with
overseers and proprietors on foot or horseback, superseded the wild creatures hardly yet driven
from their lifelong haunt.

Through the whole extent of Oil Creek, one picturesque feature never fails: this is the alternation
of bluff and flat on the opposite sides of the Creek, so that the voyager never finds himself
between two of either,--but, as the bluff at his right hand sinks into a plain, he finds the
plain at the left rising sharply into a bluff.

It is in these flats that the oil is found; and each of them is thickly studded with derricks
and engine-buildings, each representing a distinct well, with a name of its own,--as the Hyena,
the Little Giant, the Phoenix, the Sca'at Cat, the Little Mac, the Wild Rabbit, the Grant,
Burnside, and Sheridan, with several hundred more. The flats themselves are generally known
as Farms, with the names of the original proprietors still prefixed,--as the Widow McClintock
Farm, Story Farm, Tarr Farm, and the rest.

Few of these god-parents of the soil are at present to be found upon it: many of them in the
beginning of the oil speculation having sold out at moderate prices to shrewd adventurers,
who made themselves rich men before the dispossessed Rip Van Winkles awoke to a consciousness
of what was going on about them. Some, more fortunate or more far-sighted, still hold possession
of the land, but enjoy their enormous incomes in the cities and places of fashionable resort,
where their manners and habits introduce a refreshing element of novelty.

Few proprietors can be persuaded to sell the golden goose outright; and the most usual course
is for the individual or company intending to sink a well to buy what is called a working interest
in the soil, the owner retaining a land interest or royalty, through which he claims half the
proceeds of the well, while the lessee may, after months of expense and labor, abandon the
enterprise with only his labor for his pains. These failures are also a great source of annoyance
to the proprietors: for many of these abandoned wells require only capital to render them available;
but the finances of the first speculator being exhausted, no new one will risk his money in
them, while the old lease would interfere with his right to the proceeds.

Even the land for building purposes is only leased, with the proviso that the tenant must move,
not only himself, but his house, whenever the landlord sees fit to explore his cellar or flower-garden
for oil.

A land interest obtained, the precise spot for breaking ground is selected somewhat by experience,
but more by chance,--all "oil territory" being expected to yield oil, if properly sought. An
engine-house and derrick are next put up, the latter of timber in the modern wells, but in
the older ones simply of slender saplings, sometimes still rooted in the earth. A steam-engine
is next set up, and the boring commences.

By means of a spile-driver, an iron pipe, sharp at the lower edge and about six inches in diameter,
is driven down until it rests upon the solid rock, usually at a depth of about fifty feet.
The earth is then removed from the inside of this pipe by means of a sand-pump, and the "tools"
attached to a cable are placed within it.

These tools, consisting of a centre-bit and a rammer, are each thirty or thirty-five feet in
length, and weigh about eight hundred pounds. At short intervals these are replaced by the
sand-pump, which removes the drillings.

The first three strata of rock are usually slate, sandstone, and soapstone. Beneath these,
at a depth of two hundred feet, lies the second sandstone, and from this all the first yield
of oil was taken; but, though good in quality, this supply was speedily exhausted, and the
modern wells are carried directly through this second sandstone, through the slate and soapstone
beneath, to the third sandstone, in whose crevices lies the largest yield yet discovered. The
proprietors of old wells are now reaming them out and sinking their shafts to the required
depth, which is about four hundred and fifty feet.

The oil announces itself in various ways: sometimes by the escape of gas; sometimes by the
appearance of oil upon the cable attached to the tools; sometimes by the dropping of the tools,
showing that a crevice has been reached; and in occasional happy instances by a rush of oil
spouting to the top of the derrick, and tossing out the heavy tools like feathers.

Such a well as this, known as a flowing well, is the best "find" possible, as the fortunate
borer has nothing more to do than to put down a tubing of cast-iron artesian pipe, lead the
oil from its mouth into a tank, and then, sitting under his own vine and fig-tree, leave his
fortune to accumulate by daily additions of thousands of dollars. A flowing well, struck while
Miselle was upon the Creek, yielded fifteen hundred barrels per day, the oil selling at the
well for ten dollars and a half the barrel.

But should the oil decline to flow, or, having flowed, cease to do so, a force-pump is introduced,
and, driven by the same engine that bored the well, brings up the oil at a rate varying from
three to three hundred barrels per day. The Phillips Well, on Tarr Farm, originally a flowing
well, producing two thousand barrels per day, now pumps about three hundred and thirty, and
is considered a first-class well.

Before reaching oil, the borer not unfrequently comes upon veins of water, either salt or fresh;
and this water is excluded from the shaft by a leathern case applied about the pipe and filled
with flax-seed. The seed, swollen by the moisture, completely fills the space remaining between
the tube and the walls of the shaft, so that no water reaches the oil. But whenever the tubing
with its seed-bags is withdrawn, the water rushing down "drowns" not only its own well, but
all such as have subterraneous communication with it. In this manner one of the most important
wells upon the Creek avenged itself some time ago upon a too successful rival by drawing its
tubing and letting down the water upon both wells. The rival retaliated by drawing its own
tubing, with a like result, and the proprietors of each lost months of time and hundreds of
thousands of dollars before the quarrel could be adjusted.

From the mouth of the shaft, elevated some fifteen feet above the surface of the ground, the
oil either flows or is pumped into an immense vat or tank, and from this is led to another
and another, until a large well will have a series of tanks connected like the joints of a
rattlesnake's tail. Into the last one is put a faucet, and the oil drawn into barrels is either
carried to the local refinery, or in its crude condition is boated to the railway, or to Oil
City, and thence down the Alleghany.

One of the principal perils attending oil-seeking is that of fire. Petroleum, in its crude
state, is so highly impregnated with gas and with naphtha, or benzine as to be very inflammable,--a
fact proved, indeed, many years ago, when, as history informs us,

    "General Clarke kindled the vapor,
    Stayed about an hour, and left it a-burning,"

unconsciously turning his back upon a fortune such as probably had never entered the worthy
knight's imagination.

The petroleum once ignited, it is very hard to extinguish the flames; and Mr. Williams told
of being one of a company of men who labored twenty-four hours in vain to subdue a burning
well. They tried water, which only aggravated the trouble; they tried covering the well with
earth, but the gas permeated the whole mass and blazed up more defiantly than ever; they covered
the mound of earth with a carpet, (paid for at the value of cloth of gold,) and the carpet
with wet sand, but a bad smell of burned wool was the only result. Finally, some incipient
Bonaparte hit upon the expedient of dividing the Allies, who together defied mankind, and,
bringing a huge oil-tank, inverted it over the sand, the carpet, the earth, and the well, by
this time one blazing mass. Fire thus cut off from Air succumbed, and the battle was over.

"There was no one hurt that time," pursued Friend Williams, in a tone of airy reminiscence;
"but mostly at our fires there'll be two or three people burned up, and more women than men,
I've noticed. Either it's their clothes, or they get scared and don't look out for themselves.
Now there was the Widow McClintock owned that farm above here. She was worth her hundreds of
thousands of dollars, but she would put kerosene on her fire to make it burn. So one day it
caught, and she caught, and in half an hour there was no such thing as Widow McClintock on
Oil Creek. Still all the women keep right on pouring kerosene into their stoves, and every
little while one of them goes after the Widow.

"Then there was a woman who sent to the refinery for a pail of alkali to clean her floor. The
man thought he'd get benzine instead; and just as he got into the house, the fire from his
pipe dropped into it, and the whole shanty was in a blaze before the poor woman knew what had
happened. The stupid fool that was to blame got off, but the woman burned up.

"Then there was a woman whose house was afire, and she would rush back, after she had been
dragged out, to look for her pet teacups, and she was burned up. And so they go."

Sometimes also the tanks of crude oil take fire, and these conflagrations are said to present
a splendid spectacle,--the resinous parts of the oil burning with a fierce deep-red flame and
sending up volumes of smoke, through which are emitted lightning-like flashes exploding the
ignited gas.

Like some other things, including people, this unappeasable substance conceals its terrors
beneath a placid exterior, and lies in its great tanks, or in shallow pits dug for it in the
earth, looking neither volcanic nor even combustible, but more like thin green paint than anything
else, except when it has become adulterated with water, when it assumes a bilious, yellow appearance,
exceedingly uninviting to the spectator. In this case it is allowed to remain undisturbed in
the tank until the oil and water have separated, when the latter is drawn off at the bottom.

Wandering one day among groves of derricks and villages of tanks, Miselle and her guide came
upon a building containing a pair of truculent monsters in a high state of activity. These
were introduced to her as a steam force-pump and its attendant engine; and she was told that
they were at that moment sucking up whole tanks of oil from the neighboring wells, and pumping
it up the precipitous bluff, through the lonely forest, over marsh and moor, hill and dale,
to the great Humboldt Refinery, more than three miles distant, in the town of Plummer, as it
is called,--although, in point of fact, Plummer, Tarr Farm, and several other settlements belong
to the township of Cornplanter.

There was something about this brace of monsters very fascinating to Miselle. They seemed like
subjected genii closed in these dull black cases and this narrow shed, and yet embracing miles
of territory in their invisible arms. Even the genius of Aladdin's lamp was not so powerful,
for he was obliged to betake himself to the scene of the wonders he was to enact,--and if imprisoned
as closely as these, could not have transferred enough oil from Tarr Farm to Plummer to fill
his own lamp.

Afterward, in rambling through the woods, Miselle often came upon the mound raised above the
buried pipe, and always regarded it with the same admiring awe with which the fisherman of
Bagdad probably looked at the copper vessel wherein Solomon had so cunningly "canned" the rebellious
Afrit.

Leaving the shed of the monsters, Miselle followed her guide out of the throng of derricks
and tanks, and a short distance up the hill, to the picturesque site of Messrs. Barrows and
Hazleton's Refinery, the only one now in operation on Tarr Farm.

Entering a low brick building called the still-house, she found herself in a passage between
two brick walls, pierced on either hand for five or six oven-doors, while overhead the black
roof was divided into panels by a system of iron pipes through which the crude oil was conducted
to the caldrons above the iron doors.

The presiding genius of the place was a very fat, dirty, but intelligent Irishman, known as
Tommy, who came forward with the politeness of his nation to greet the visitors, and explain
to them the mysteries under his charge.

"And give a guess, Ma'am, if ye plase, at what we've got a-burning undher our big pot here,"
suggested he, with a hand upon one of the oven-doors.

"Soft coal," ventured Miselle, remembering her experience at the glassworks.

"Not a bit of it. It's the binzole intirely. We makes the ile cook itself, an' not a hape of
fu'l does it git, but what it brings along itself."

"Seething the kid in its mother's milk," remarked Miselle to herself.

"It's this pipe fetches the binzole from the tank outside, and the mouth of it's widin the
door; and this is the stop-cock as lets it on."

So saying, Tommy threw open the oven-door, and pointed to the black end of a pipe just within.
At the same time he turned a handle on the outside, and let on a stream of benzine or naphtha,
which blazed fiercely up with a lurid flame strongly suggestive of the pictured reward of evil-doers
in another life.

Next, Tommy proceeded to explain, after his own fashion, how the oil in the caldrons above,
urged by these fires, departed in steam and agony through long pipes called worms, the only
outlet from the otherwise air-tight stills, which worms, wriggling out at the end of the building,
plunged into a bath of cold water provided for them in a huge square tank fed by a bright mountain-stream
winding down from the bluff above in a fashion so picturesque as to be quite out of keeping
with its ultimate destination.

Emerging from their cold bath, the worms, crawling along the ground behind the still-house,
arrived at the back of another building, called the test-room; and here each one, making a
sharp turn to enable him to enter, was pierced at the angle thus formed, and a vertical pipe
some ten feet in length inserted.

The object of these pipes was to carry off the gas still mingled with the oil; and, looking
attentively, Miselle could distinguish a flickering column ascending from each pipe and forming
itself so humanly against the evening sky as to vindicate the superstition of the Saxons, who
first named this ether geist.

"What a splendid illumination, if only those ten pipes were lighted some dark night!" suggested
Miselle.

"Phe-ew! An' yer lumernation wouldn't stop there long, I can tell yer, Ma'am," retorted Tommy.
"The whole works ud be in a swither 'fore iver we'd time to ax what was comin'."

"They would? And why?"

"The binzole, Ma'am, the binzole. It's the Divil's own stuff to manage, an' there's no thrustin'
it wid so much as the light uv a pipe nigh hand. The air is full of it; and if you was so much
as to sthrike a match here where we stand, it ud be all day wid us 'fore we'd time to think
uv it. You should know that yersilf, Sir," continued he, turning to Mr. Williams.

"Yes," returned that gentleman, with a grimace. "I learned the nature of benzine pretty thoroughly
when I first came on the Creek. I had been at work over one of the wells, and got my clothes
pretty oily, but thought I would not ask my wife to meddle with them. So I sent for a pail
of benzine, and, shutting myself up in my shop, set to work to wash my clothes. I succeeded
very well for a first attempt; and when I had done, and hung them up to dry, I felt quite proud.
Then, as it was pretty cold, I thought I would put a little fire in the stove, and get them
dried to carry away before my men came in to work the next morning. So I put some kindling
in the stove, and scraped a match on my boot; but I hadn't time to touch it to the shavings
before the whole air was aflame, not catching from one point to another, but flashing through
the whole place in an instant, and snapping all around my head like a bunch of fire-crackers.
I rushed for the door; but before I could get out I was pretty well singed, and there was no
such thing as saving a single article. All went together,--shop, stock, tools, clothes, and
everything else. That's benzine."

"That's binzole," echoed Tommy. "An' now, Ma'am, come in, if yer plase, to the tistin'-room."

Miselle complied, and, stepping into the little room, saw first two parallel troughs running
its entire length, and terminating at one end in a pipe leading through the side of the building.
Into each of these troughs half the pipes were at this moment discharging a colorless, odorless
fluid, the apotheosis, as it were, of petroleum.

Tommy, perching himself upon a high stool beside the troughs, regarded his visitors with calm
superiority, and was evidently disposed, in this his stronghold, to treat with them ex cathedra.

"There, thin, Ma'am," began he, "that's what I call iligant ile intirely. Look at it jist!"

And taking from its shelf a long tubular glass, he ladled up some of the oil, and held it to
the light for inspection.

When this had been duly admired, the professor informed his audience that the first product
of the still is the gas, which is led off as previously described. Next comes naphtha, benzine,
or, as Tommy and his comrades call it, "binzole." This dangerous substance is led from the
troughs of the testing-house to a subterraneous tank, the trap-cover of which was subsequently
lifted, that the visitors might peep, as into the den of some malignant wild creature. From
this it is again drawn, and, mixed with the heavy oil or residuum of the still, is principally
used for fuel, as before described.

"And how soon do you cut off for oil?" inquired Mr. Williams, carelessly.

The fat man gave him a look of solemn indignation, and proceeded without heeding the interruption.

"Whin I joodge, Ma'am, that the binzole is nigh run out, I tist it with a hyder-rometer, this
a-way."

And Tommy, descending from the stool, took from the shelf first a tin pot strongly resembling
a shaving-mug, and then a little glass instrument, with a tube divided into sections by numbered
lines, and a bulb half filled with quick-silver at the base.

Filling the shaving-mug with oil, the lecturer dropped into it his hydrometer, which, after
gracefully dancing up and down for a moment, remained stationary.

"It's at 55° you'll find it. Look for yersilf, Ma'am," he resumed, with the serene confidence
of the prestidigitateur who informs the audience that the missing handkerchief will be found
in "that gentleman's pocket."

Miselle examined the figures at high-oil mark, and found that they were actually 55°.

"The binzole, you see, Ma'am, is so thin that the hyder-rometer drops right down over head
an' ears in it; but as it gits to be ile, it comes heavier an' stouter, an' kind uv buoys it
up, until at lin'th an' at last the 60° line comes crapin' up in sight. Thin I thry it by the
fire tist. I puts some in a pan over a sperit-lamp, and keep a-thryin' an' a-thryin' it wid
a thermometer; an' whin it's 'most a-bilin', I puts a lighted match to the ile, an' if it blazes,
there's still too much binzole, an' I lets it run a bit longer. But if all's right, I cuts
off the binzole, and the nixt run is ile sech as you see it. The longer it runs, the heavier
it grows; and whin it gits so that the hyder-rometer stands at 42°, I cuts off agin. Thin the
next run is heavy ile, thick and yaller, and that doesn't come in here at all, but is drawn
from the still, and mixed wid crude ile, and stilled over agin; and whin no more good's to
be got uv it, it's mighty good along wid the binzole to keep the pot a-bilin' in beyant."

"You don't use the fire test in this building, I presume, do you?"

"Indade, no, Ma'am. There's niver a light nor yit a lanthern allowed here."

"But you run all night. How do you get light in this room?" inquired Mr. Williams.

"From widout. Did niver ye mind the windys uv this house?"

And the professor, dismounting from his stool, led the way to the outside of the building,
where he pointed to two picturesque little windows near the roof, each furnished with a deep
hood and a shelf, as if Tommy had been expected to devote his leisure hours to the cultivation
of mignonette.

"See now!"

And the burly lecturer pointed impressively to a laborer at this moment approaching with a
large lighted lantern in each hand. These, placed upon the mignonette shelves, and snugly protected
from wind and rain by the deep hoods, threw a clear light into the test-room, and brought out
in grotesque distinctness the arabesque pattern wrought with dust and oil upon Tommy's broad
visage.

"And that's how we gits light, Sir," remarked the professor, in conclusion, as, with a dignified
salutation of farewell, he disappeared in the still-house.

Admonished by the lanterns and the fading glory of the west, Miselle and her host now bent
their steps homeward, deferring, like Scheherezade, "still finer and more wonderful stories
until the next morning."

At their next visit to the Refinery, the visitors were committed to a little wiry old man,
called Jimmy, who first showed them a grewsome monster, own cousin to him who threw oil from
Tarr Farm to Plummer. This one was called an air-pump, and, with his attendant steam-engine,
inhabited a house by himself. His work will presently be explained.

The next building was the treating-house, where stand huge tanks containing the oil as drawn
from the testing-room. From these it is conducted by pipes to the iron vats, called treating-tanks,
and there mixed with vitriol, alkali, and other chemicals, in certain exact proportions. The
monster in the next building is now set in operation, and forces a stream of compressed air
through a pipe from top to bottom of the tank, whence, following its natural law, it loses
no time in ascending to the surface with a noisy ebullition, just like, as Jimmy remarked,
"a big pot over a sthrong fire."

This mixing operation was formerly performed by hand in a much less effectual manner, the steam
air-pump being a recent improvement.

The work of the chemicals accomplished, the oil is cleansed of them by the introduction of
water, and after an interval of quiet the mass separates so thoroughly that the water and chemicals
can be drawn off at the bottom of the vat with very little disturbance to the oil.

From the treating-house the perfected oil is drawn to the tanks of the barrelling-shed, and
filled into casks ready for exportation. A large cooper's shop upon the premises supplies a
portion of the barrels, but is principally used in repairing the old ones.

The oil is next teamed to the Creek, and either pumped into decked boats, to be transported
in bulk, or, still in barrels, is loaded upon the ordinary flatboats. During a large portion
of the year, however, neither of these can make the passage of the shallow Creek without the
aid of a "pond-fresh." This occurs when the millers near the head of the Creek open their dams,
and by the sudden influx of water give a gigantic "swell" to the boats patiently awaiting it
at every "farm," from Schaeffer's to Oil City.

Sometimes, however, the boatmen, like the necromancer's student who set the broomstick to bringing
water, but could not remember the spell to stop it, find that it is unsafe to set great agencies
at work without the power of controlling them. Last May, for instance, occurred a pond-fresh,
long to be remembered on Oil Creek, when the stream rose with such furious, rapidity that the
loaded boats became unmanageable, crowding and dashing together, staving in the sides of the
great oil-in-bulk boats, and grinding the floating barrels to splinters. Not even the thousands
of gallons of oil thus shed upon the stormy waters were sufficient to assuage either their
wrath or that of the boatmen, who, as their respective craft piled one upon another, sprang
to "repel boarders" with oaths, fists, boat-hooks, or whatever other weapons Nature or chance
had provided them. This scene of anarchy lasted several days, and some cold-blooded photographer
amused himself, "after" Nero, in taking views of it from different points. Copies of these
pictures, commemorating such destruction of property, temper, and propriety as Oil Creek never
witnessed before, are hung about the "office" of the Refinery, with which comfortable apartment
the visitors finished their tour.

Here they were offered the compliments of the season and locality in a collation of chestnuts;
and here also they were invited to inspect a stereoscope, which, with its accompanying views,
is considered on Tarr Farm as admirable a wonder as was, doubtless, Columbus's watch by the
aborigines of the New World. Dearer to Miselle than chestnuts or stereoscope, however, were
the information and the anecdotes placed at her service by the gentlemen of the establishment,
albeit involuntarily; and with her friends she shortly after departed from Barrows and Hazleton's
Refinery, filled with content and gratitude.

The noticeable point in the society of Tarr Farm, or rather in the human scenery, for society
there is none, is the absurd mingling of inharmonious material. As in the toy called Prince
Rupert's Drop, a multitude of unassimilated particles are bound together by a master necessity.
Remove the necessity, and in the flash of an eye the particles scatter never to reunite.

In her two days' tour of Tarr Farm, Miselle talked with gentlemen of birth and education, gentlemen
whose manners contrasted oddly enough with their coarse clothes and knee-high boots; also with
intermittent gentlemen, who felt Tarr Farm to be no fit theatre for the exercise of their acquired
politeness; also with men like Tommy and Jimmy, whose claims lay not so much in aristocratic
connection and gentle breeding as in a thorough appreciation of the matter in hand; also with
a less pleasing variety of mankind, men who, originally ignorant and debased, have through
lucky speculations acquired immense wealth without the habits of body and mind fitly accompanying
it.

Various ludicrous anecdotes are told of this last class, but none droller than that of the
millionnaire, who, after the growth of his fortune, sent his daughter, already arrived at woman's
estate, to school, that she might learn reading, writing, and other accomplishments. After
a reasonable time the father visited the school, and inquired concerning his daughter's progress.
This he was informed was but small, owing to a "want of capacity."

"Capacity! capacity!" echoed the father, thrusting his hands into his well-lined pockets; "well,
by ginger, if the gal's got no capacity, I've got the money to buy her one, cost what it may!"

Another young fellow, originally employed in a very humble position by one of the oil companies,
suddenly acquired a fortune, and removed to another part of the country. Returning for a visit
to the scene of his former labors, he stood inspecting the operations of a cooper at work upon
an oil-barrel. The two men had formerly been comrades, but this fact the rich man now found
it convenient to forget, and the poor one was too proud to remember.

"Pray, Cooper," inquired the former at last, tapping the barrel superciliously with his cane,
"are you able to make this thing oil-tight?"

"I believe so," retorted Cooper, dryly. "Was you ever troubled by their leaking, when you rolled
them through the mud from the well to the Creek?"

Through all this fungus growth it is rather difficult to come at the indigenous product of
the soil; and Miselle found none of whose purity she could be sure, except the youth who drove
her from Tarr Farm to Schaeffer's on her return. Arriving in sight of the railway, this puer
ingenuus, pointing to the track, inquired,--

"An' be thot what the keers rides on?"

"Yes," said Mr. Williams, "that's the track."

"An' yon's the wagons whar ye'll set?" pursued he, pointing to some platform-cars, waiting
to be loaded with oil-barrels.

"Hardly. Those are where the oil sits."

"Be? Then yon's for the fowks, I reckon?" indicating a line of box freight-cars a little farther
on.

"No, not exactly. Those are the passenger-cars, away up the track, with windows and steps."

"An' who rides in the loft up atop?" inquired the youth, after a prolonged stare.

This question, referring to the raised portion of the roof, universal in Western cars, being
answered, Mr. Williams inquired in his turn,--

"Did you never see the railway before?"

"Never seed 'em till this minute. Fact, I never went furder from home than Tarr Farm 'fore
to-day. 'Spect there's a many won'erful sights 'twixt here an' Eri', ben't there?"

Imagine a full-grown lad, in these United States, whose ideas are bounded by the city of Erie!

Not indigenous to the soil, but a firmly rooted, exotic growth, was the sonsy Scotch family
whom Miselle was taken to see, the Sunday after her arrival.

Two years ago their picturesque log-cabin stood almost in a wilderness, with the farm-house
of James Tarr its only neighbor. Now the derricks are crowding up the hill toward it, until
only a narrow belt of woodland protects it from invasion. In front, a small flower-garden still
showed some autumn blooms at the time of Miselle's visit, and was the only attempt at floriculture
seen by her on Oil Creek.

With traditional Scotch hospitality, the mistress of the house, seconded by Maggie and Belle,
the elder daughters, insisted that the proposed call should include dinner; and Miselle, nothing
loath, was glad that her friends allowed themselves to be prevailed upon to stay.

"It's no that we hae onything fit to gie ye, but ye maun just tak' the wull for the deed,"
said the good mother, as she bustled about, and set before her guests a plain and plentiful
meal, where all was good enough, and the fresh bread and newly churned butter something more.

"It's Maggie's baith baker and dairy-woman," said the well-pleased dame, in answer to a compliment
upon these viands. "And it's she'll be gay and proud to gie ye all her ways about it, gif ye'll
ask her."

So Maggie, being questioned, described the process of making "salt-rising" bread, and to the
recipe added a friendly caution, that, if allowed to ferment too long, the dough would become
"as sad and dour as a stane, and though you br'ak your heart over it, wad ne'er be itsel' again."

From a regard either to etiquette or convenience, only the heads of the family, and Jamie,
the eldest son, a fine young giant, of one-and-twenty, sat down with the guests: the girls
and younger children waiting upon table, and sitting down afterward with another visitor, an
intelligent negro farmer, one of the most pleasing persons Miselle encountered on her travels.

Dinner over, it was proposed that Maggie and Belle should accompany Mr. and Mrs. Williams and
Miselle on a visit to some coal-mines about a mile farther back in the forest, and, with the
addition of a young man named John, who chanced in on a Sunday-evening call to one of the young
ladies, the party set forth.

The day was the sweetest of the Indian summer, and the walk through woods of chestnut and hemlock
was as charming as possible, and none the less so for the rustic coquetries of pretty Belle
Miller, whose golden hair was the precise shade of a lock once shown to Miselle as a veritable
relic of Prince Charlie.

The forest road ended abruptly in a wide glade, where stood the shanty occupied by the miners,
a shed for the donkeys employed in dragging out the coal, and, finally, the ruinous tunnel
leading horizontally into a disused mine. The wooden tram-way on which the coal-car had formerly
run still remained; and cautiously walking upon this causeway through the quagmire of mud,
Miselle and Mr. Williams penetrated some distance into the mine, but saw nothing more wonderful
than mould and other fungi, bats and toads. Retracing their steps, they followed the tram-way
to its termination at the top of a high bank, down which the coals were shot into a cart stationed
below. This coal is of an inferior quality, bituminous, and largely mixed with slate. It sells
readily, however, upon the Creek, at a dollar a bushel, for use in the steam-engines.

The sight-seers having satisfied their curiosity with regard to the mine, and having paid a
short visit to the donkeys, were quietly resuming their walk, when out from the abode of the
miners poured a tumultuous crowd of men, women, and children, who surrounded the little party
in a menacing manner, while their leader, a stalwart fellow, called Brennan, seized John by
the arm, and, shaking a sledge-hammer fist in his face, inquired what he meant by coming to
"spy round an honest man's house, and make game of his betters?"

It was in vain that John attempted to disabuse the mind of his assailant of this view of his
visit to the old mine; and indeed his argument could not even have been heard, as Brennan was
now violently reiterating,--

"Tak' yer coorse, thin! Why don't ye tak' yer coorse?"

The advice was sensible, and the party left to themselves would undoubtedly have followed it;
in fact, the females of the party had already taken their "coorse" along the homeward path
as fast as their feet would carry them, excepting Miselle, who contented herself with stepping
behind a great pine-tree, and watching thence this new development of human nature.

From angry words the miners were not long in proceeding to blows, and a short joust ensued,
in which Williams and John gallantly held the lists against six or eight assailants, who would
have been more dangerous, had they not been all day celebrating the wedding of one of their
number. Suddenly, however, the leader of the colliers darted by John, who was opposing him,
and pounced upon poor Belle Miller, who with her companions had paused at a little distance
to give vent to their feelings in a chorus of dismal shrieks. Whether these irritated Mr. Brennan's
weakened nerves, or whether he had merely the savage instinct of reaching the strong through
the weak, cannot be certainly known; but the fact of her forcible capture was rendered sufficiently
obvious by the cries that rent the air, and the heart of the young man John, who, neglecting
his own safety in an attempt at rescue, received a stunning blow from his opponent, and fell
bleeding to the earth.

Satisfied with the result of his experiment, Brennan, leaving his captive in custody of his
own party, attempted another raid upon the defenceless flock; but this time Friend Williams,
summoned by the voice of his wife, darted to her rescue, and, with a happy blow, laid the giant
upon his back, where he lay for some moments admiring the evening sky.

Brave as were the two knights, however, and manifest as was the right, Victory would probably
have "perched upon the banners of the strongest battalions," had not an unexpected diversion
put a sudden end to the combat.

This came from the side of the assailants, in the pleasing shape of a pretty young woman, who,
rushing forward, flung her arms about the neck of one of the leaders of the mob, crying,--

"Patrick Maloney, didn't you stand before the altar with me this day, and vow to God to be
a true and faithful husband? And is this all the respect you show me on my wedding-day?"

The appeal was not without its force, and Patrick, pausing to consider of it, was surrounded
by the more pacific of his own party, among whom now appeared "Big Tommy" from the Refinery,
who loudly vouched for the character of the visitors, claiming them indeed as warm and dear
friends of his own.

During the stormy council of war ensuing among the attacking party, the womankind of the attacked
ventured to approach near enough to implore their champions to withdraw, while yet there was
time. This pacific counsel they finally consented to follow, and were led away breathing vengeance
and discontent, when John suddenly paused, exclaiming,--

"Where's Belle? They've got her. Come on, Williams! we aren't going to leave the girl among
'em, surely!"

At this Maggie and Mrs. Williams uplifted their voices in deprecation of further hostilities,
protesting that they should die at once, if their protectors were to desert them, and using
many other feminine and magnanimous arguments in favor of a speedy retreat.

But while yet the question of her rescue was undecided, Belle appeared, flushed, tearful, and
voluble in reproach against the friends who had deserted her. She attributed her final escape
to a free use of her tongue, and repeated certain pointed remarks which she had addressed to
her custodian, who finally shook her, boxed her ears, and bade her begone.

On hearing this recital, John was for returning at once and avenging the insult; but the rest
of the party, remembering the golden maxim of Hudibras,

    "He who fights and runs away
    May live to fight another day,"

prevailed on him to wait for retaliation until a more favorable opportunity.

It may be satisfactory to the reader to hear, that, after Miselle had left Oil Creek, she was
informed that Mr. Williams, John, and a body of men, equal in number to the colliers, paid
them a visit, with authority from the owner of the mine to pull down their house and eject
them from the premises. They also contemplated, it is supposed, a more direct and personal
vengeance; but, on making known their intentions, the pretty bride again appeared, and, assaulting
poor Williams with a whole battery of tearful eyes, trembling lips, and eloquent appeals, vindicated
once more the superiority of woman's wiles to man's determination. An abject apology from the
colliers, and a decided intimation from the "Regulators" of the consequences sure to follow
any future incivility to visitors, closed the affair, and the parties separated without further
hostilities.

The evening was so far advanced when the little party of fugitives were once more en route,
that a proposed visit to a working mine at some little distance was given up, and at the door
of the farm-house the party dispersed to their respective homes.

The next day had been appointed for a visit to Oil City, the farthest and most important station
upon the Creek; and one object in visiting the house was to engage Jamie, with his "team,"
for the expedition. It fortunately happened that the old Scotchman and his wife were going
to Oil City on the same day, and it was arranged that the two parties should unite.

At an early hour in the morning, therefore, Mr. and Mrs. Williams, with Miselle, once more
climbed the mountain to the little log-house, and found Jamie just harnessing a pair of fine
black horses to a wagon, similar to the "hack-carriage" of Schaeffer's Farm. In the bottom
was a quantity of clean hay, and across the sides were fastened two planks, covered with bedquilts.
Upon one of these were seated Mr. and Mrs. Williams, while Miselle was invited to the post
of honor beside Mrs. Miller, and the old Scotchman shared the driver's seat with his son.

"Dinna ye be feared now, dearie. Our Jamie's a car'fu' driver, wi' all his wild ways," said
the old woman kindly, as the wagon, with a premonitory lurch and twist, turned into the forest
road.

Road! Let the reader call to mind the most precipitous wooded mountain of his acquaintance,
and fancy a road formed over it by the simple process of cutting off the trees, leaving the
stumps and rocks undisturbed, and then fancy himself dragged over it in a springless wagon
behind two fast horses.

"Eh, then! It maks an auld body's banes ache sair, siccan a road, as yon!" said the Scotchwoman,
with a significant grimace, as the wagon paused a moment at the foot of a perpendicular ascent.

"I reckon ye wad nae ken whatten the Auld Country roads were med for, gin ye suld see them.
They're nae like this, ony way."

The dear old creature had entered the United States through the St. Lawrence and the Lakes,
and supposed Tarr Farm to be America. Miselle was so weak as to try to describe the aspect
of things about her native city, and was evidently suspected of patriotic romancing for her pains.

But such magnificent views! Such glimpses of far mountain-peaks, seen through vistas of rounded
hills! Such flashing streams, tumbling heels over head across the forest road in their haste
to mingle with the blue waters of the Alleghany! Such wide stretches of country, as the road
crept along the mountain-brow, or curved sinuously down to the far valley!

Pictures were there, as yet uncopied, that should hold Church breathless, with the pencil of
the Andes and Niagara quivering in his fingers,--pictures that Turner might well cross the
seas to look upon; but Miselle remembers them through a distracting mist of bodily terror and
discomfort,--as some painter showed a dance of demons encircling a maiden's couch, while above
it hung her first love-dream.

"Yon in the valley, where the wood looks so yaller, is a sulphur spring; an' here in the road's
the place where I'm going to tip you all over," suddenly remarked Jamie, twisting himself round
on the box to enjoy the consternation of his female passengers, while the wagon paused on the
verge of a long gully, some six feet in depth, occupying the whole middle of the road.

"Wull ye get out?" continued he, addressing Miselle for the first time.

"Had we better?" asked she, tremulously.

"If you're easy scared. But I'm no going to upset, I'll promise you."

"Then I'll stay in," said Miselle, in the desperate courage of extreme cowardice; and the wagon
went on, two wheels deep in the gully, crumbling down the clayey mud, two wheels high on the
mountain-side, crashing through brush and over stones. And yet there was no upset.

"Didn't I tell ye?" inquired Jamie, again twisting himself to look in Miselle's white face,
with a broad smile of delight at her evident terror.

"Be done, you bold bairn! Isn't he a sturdy, stirring lad, Ma'am?" said the proud mother, as
Jamie, addressing himself again to his work, shouted to the black nags, and put them along
the bit of level road in the valley at a pace precluding all further conversation.

Another precipitous ascent, where the road had been mended by felling a large tree across it,
over whose trunk the horses were obliged to pull the heavy wagon, and then an equally precipitous
descent, gave a view of the Alleghany River and Oil Creek, with Oil City at their confluence,
and a background of bluffs and mountains cutting sharp against the clear blue sky.

This view Miselle contemplated with one eye; but the other remained rigidly fixed upon the
road before her.

Even Jamie paused, and finally suggested,--

"Reckon, men, you'd best get out and walk alongside. The women can stay in; and if she's going
over, you can shore up."

Under these cheerful auspices the descent was accomplished, and, by some miracle, without accident.

At the foot of the bluff commences the slough in which Oil City is set; and as it deepened,
the horses gradually sank from view, until only their backs were visible, floundering through
a sea of oily mud of a peculiarly tenacious character. Miselle has the warning of Munchausen
before her eyes; but, in all sadness, she avers that in the principal street of Oil City, and
at the door of the principal hotel, the mud was on that day above the hubs of the wagon-wheels.

Having refreshed themselves in body and mind at the Petroleum House, where a lady in a soiled
print dress and much jewelry kindly played at them upon a gorgeous piano, the party went forth
to view the city.

The same mingling of urgent civilization and unsubdued Nature observable in Corry characterizes
Oil City to a greater extent. On one side of the street, crowded with oil-wagons, the freight
of each worth thousands of dollars, stand long rows of dwellings, shops, and warehouses, all
built within two years, and on the other impinges a bluff still covered with its forest growth
of shrubs and wood-plants,--while upon the frowning front of a cliff that has for centuries
faced nothing meaner than the Alleghany, with its mountain background, some Vandal has daubed
the advertisement of a quack nostrum.

Farther on, where the bluff is less precipitous, it has been graded after a fashion; and the
houses built at the upper side of the new street seem to be sliding rapidly across it to join
their opposite neighbors, which, in their turn, are sinking modestly into the mud.

A plank sidewalk renders it possible to walk through the principal streets of this city; but
temptation to do so is of the slightest.

Monotonous lines of frail houses, shops whose scanty assortment of goods must be sold at enormous
prices to pay the expense of transportation from New York or Philadelphia, crowds of oil-speculators,
oil-dealers, oil-teamsters, a clumsy bridge across the Creek, a prevailing atmosphere of petroleum,--such
is Oil City.

At the water-side the view is somewhat more interesting. No wharves have yet been built; and
the swarming flatboats "tie up" all along the bank, just as they used to do three years ago,
when, with a freight of lumber instead of oil, they stopped for the night at the solitary little
Dutch tavern then monopolizing the site of the present city.

A rakish little stern-wheel steamer lay in the stream, bound for Pittsburg, and sorely was
Miselle tempted to take passage down the Alleghany in her; but lingering memories of home and
the long-suffering Caleb at last prevailed, and, with a sigh, she turned her back upon the
beautiful river, and retraced her steps through yards crowded with barrels of oil waiting for
shipment,--oil in rows, oil in stacks, oil in columns, and oil in pyramids wellnigh as tall
and as costly as that of Cheops himself.

Returned to the Petroleum House, Miselle bade a reluctant good-bye to the kindly Scots, who
here took stage for Franklin, and watched them float away, as it appeared, upon the sea of
mud in a wagon-body whose wheels and horses were too nearly submerged to make any noticeable
feature in the arrangement.

Soon after, Jamie appeared at the door of the parlor nominally to announce himself ready to
return; but, after a fierce struggle with his natural modesty of disposition, he advanced into
the room, and silently laid two of the biggest apples that ever grew in the laps of Mrs. Williams
and Miselle. Putting aside all acknowledgments with "Ho! what's an apple or two?" the woodsman
next proceeded on a tour of inspection round the room, serenely unconscious of the magnificent
scorn withering him from the eyes of the jewelled lady, who now reclined upon a broken-backed
sofa, taking a leisurely survey of the strangers.

Jamie paused some time at the piano.

"And what might such a thing as that cost noo?" asked he, at length, giving the case a little
back-handed blow.

"About eight hundred dollars," ventured Miselle, to whom the inquiry was addressed.

Jamie opened his wide black eyes.

"Hoot! Feyther could ha' bought Jim Tarr's whole farm for that, three year ago," said he; and,
with one more contemptuous stare at the piano, he left the room, and was presently seen in
the stable-yard, shouldering from his path a wagon laden with coals.

Soon after, Miselle and her friends gladly bade farewell to Oil City, leaving the scornful
lady seated at the piano executing the charming melody of "We're a band of brothers from the
old Granite State."

Having entered the city by the hill-road, it was proposed to return along the Creek, although,
as Jamie candidly stated, the road "might, like enough, be a thought worser than the other."

And it was.

Before the oil fever swept through this region, a man might have travelled from the mouth of
the Creek to its head-waters, and seen no more buildings than he could have numbered on his
ten fingers. Now the line of derricks, shanties, engine-houses, and oil-tanks is continuous
through the whole distance; and thousands of men may be seen to-day accumulating millions of
dollars where three years ago the squirrel and his wife, hoarding their winter stores, were
the only creatures that took thought for the morrow.

After its incongruous mixture of society, the social peculiarity of Oil Creek is a total disregard
of truth.

A mechanic, a tradesman, or a boatman makes the most solemn promise of service at a certain
time. Terms are settled, a definite hour appointed for the fulfilment of the contract; the
man departs, and is seen no more. His employer is neither disappointed nor angry; he expects
nothing else.

A cart laden with country produce enters the settlement from the farms behind it. Every housewife
drops her broom, and rushes out to waylay the huckster, and induce him to sell her the provisions
already engaged to her neighbor. Happy she, if stout enough of arm to convey her booty home
with her; for if she trust the vendor to leave it at her house, even after paying him his price,
she may bid good-bye to the green delights, as eagerly craved here as on a long sea-voyage.

This "peculiar institution" is all very well, doubtless, for those who understand it, but is
somewhat inconvenient to a stranger, as Miselle discovered during the three days she was trying
to leave Tarr Farm.

On the third morning, after waiting two hours upon the bank of the Creek for a perjured boatman,
Mr. Williams rushed desperately into a crowd of teamsters and captured the youth whose first
impressions of a railway have been chronicled on a preceding page. Probably even he, had time
been allowed to consider the proposition at length, would have declined the journey; but, overborne
by the vehemence of his employer, he found himself well upon the road to Schaeffer's Farm before
he had by any means decided to go thither.

The pleasantest part of the "carriage exercise" on this road is fording the Creek, a course
adopted wherever the bluff comes down to the bank, and the flat reappears upon the opposite
side, no one having yet spent time to grade a continuous road on one side or the other. A railway
company has, however, made a beginning in this direction; and it is promised that in another
year the traveller may proceed from Schaeffer's to Oil City by rail.

At Titusville Miselle bade good-bye to her kind friend Williams, and once more took herself
under her own protection.

Spending the night at Corry, she next day found herself in the city of Erie, and could have
fancied it Heidelberg instead, the signs bearing such names as Schultz, Seelinger, Jantzen,
Cronenberger, Heidt, and Heybeck. Hans Preuss sells bread, Valentin Ulrich manufactures saddles,
and P. Loesch keeps a meat-market, with a sign representing one gentleman holding a mad bull
by a bit of packthread tied to his horns, while an assistant leisurely strolls up to annihilate
the creature with a tack-hammer.

Here, too, a little beyond the middle of the town, was a girl herding a flock of geese, precisely
as did the princess in the "Brüder Grimm Tales," while a doltish boy stared at her with just
the imbecile admiration of Kurdkin for the wily maiden who combed her golden, hair and chanted
her naughty spell in the same breath.

A little farther on stood a charming old Dutch cottage with cabbages in the front yard, and
a hop-vine clambering the porch. An infant Teuton swung upon the gate, who, being addressed
by Miselle, lisped an answer in High Dutch, while his mother shrilly exchanged the news with
her next neighbor in the same tongue.

Two hours sufficed to exhaust the wonders of Erie, and Miselle gladly took the cars for Buffalo,
and on the road thither fell in with a good Samaritan, who solaced her weary faintness with
delicate titbits of grouse, shot and roasted upon an Ohio prairie.

At Buffalo waited the Eastern-bound cars of the New-York Central Railway; but only twenty miles
farther on, thundered Niagara, and Miselle could not choose but obey the sonorous summons.
So, after spending the night at a "white man's" hotel in Buffalo, the next morning found her
standing, an insignificant atom, before one of the world's great wonders. One or two other
travellers, however, have mentioned Niagara; and Miselle refrains from expressing more than
her thanks for the kindness which enabled her to fulfil her darling wish of standing behind
the great fall on the Canada side.

Truly, it is no empty boast that places Americans preëminent over the men of every other nation
in their courtesy to women; and Miselle would fain most gratefully acknowledge the constant
attention and kindness everywhere offered to her, while never once was she annoyed by obtrusive
or unwelcome approach; and not the vast resources of her country, not the grandeur of Niagara,
give her such pride and satisfaction as does the new knowledge she has gained of her countrymen.

GRIT.

There is an influential form of practical force, compounded of strong will, strong sense, and
strong egotism, which long waited for a strong monosyllable to announce its nature. Facts of
character, indeed, are never at rest until they have become terms of language; and that peculiar
thing which is not exactly courage or heroism, but which unmistakably is "Grit," has coined
its own word to blurt out its own quality. If the word has not yet pushed its way into classic
usage, or effected a lodgement in the dictionaries, the force it names is no less a reality
of the popular consciousness, and the word itself no less a part of popular speech. Men who
possessed the thing were just the men to snub elegance and stun propriety by giving it an inelegant,
though vitally appropriate name. There is defiance in its very sound. The word is used by vast
numbers of people to express their highest ideal of manliness, which is "real grit." It is
impossible for anybody to acquire the reputation it confers by the most dexterous mimicry of
its outside expressions; for a swift analysis, which drives directly to the heart of the man,
instantly detects the impostor behind the braggart, and curtly declares him to lack "the true
grit." The word is so close to the thing it names, has so much pith and point, is so tart on
the tongue, and so stings the ear with its meaning, that foreigners ignorant of the language
might at once feel its significance by its griding utterance as it is shot impatiently through
the resisting teeth.

Grit is in the grain of character. It may generally be described as heroism materialized,--spirit
and will thrust into heart, brain, and backbone, so as to form part of the physical substance
of the man. The feeling with which it rushes into consciousness is akin to physical sensation;
and the whole body--every nerve, muscle, and drop of blood--is thrilled with purpose and passion.
"Spunk" does not express it; for "spunk," besides being petite in itself, is courage in effervescence
rather than courage in essence. A person usually cowardly may be kicked or bullied into the
exhibition of spunk; but the man of grit carries in his presence a power which spares him the
necessity of resenting insult; for insult sneaks away from his look. It is not mere "pluck";
for pluck also comes by fits and starts, and can be disconnected from the other elements of
character. A tradesman once had the pluck to demand of Talleyrand, at the time that trickster-statesman
was at the height of his power, when he intended to pay his bill; but he was instantly extinguished
by the impassive insolence of Talleyrand's answer,--"My faith, how curious you are!" Considered
as an efficient force, it is sometimes below heroism, sometimes above it: below heroism, when
heroism is the permanent condition of the soul; above heroism, when heroism is simply the soul's
transient mood. Thus, Demosthenes had flashes of splendid heroism, but his valor depended on
his genius being kindled,--his brave actions naming out from mental ecstasy rather than intrepid
character. The moment his will dropped from its eminence of impassioned thought, he was scared
by dangers which common soldiers faced with gay indifference. Erskine, the great advocate,
was a hero at the bar; but when he entered the House of Commons, there was something in the
fixed imperiousness and scorn of Pitt which made him feel inwardly weak and fluttered. Erskine
had flashes of heroism; Pitt had consistent and persistent grit. If we may take the judgment
of Sir Sidney Smith, Wellington had more grit than Napoleon had heroism. Just before the Battle
of Waterloo, Sir Sidney, at Paris, was told that the Duke had decided to keep his position
at all events. "Oh!" he exclaimed, "if the Duke has said that, of course t' other fellow must
give way."

And this is essentially the sign of grit, that, when it appears, t' other fellow or t' other
opinion must give way. Its power comes from its tough hold on the real, and the surly boldness
with which it utters and acts it out. Thus, in social life, it puts itself in rude opposition
to all those substitutes for reality which the weakness and hypocrisy and courtesy of men find
necessary for their mutual defence. It denies that it has ever surrendered its original rights
and aboriginal force, or that it has assented to the social compact. When it goes into any
company of civilized persons, its pugnacity is roused by seeing that social life does not rest
on the vigor of the persons who compose it, but on the authority of certain rules and manners
to which all are required to conform. These appear to grit as external defences, thrown up
to protect elegant feebleness against any direct collision with positive character, and to
keep men and women at a respectful distance from ladies and gentlemen. Life is carried on there
at one or more removes from the realities of life, on this principle, that, "I won't speak
the truth of you, if you won't speak the truth of me"; and the name of this principle is politeness.
It is impolite to tell foolish men that they are foolish, mean men that they are mean, wicked
men that they are wicked, traitorous men that they are traitors; for smooth lies cement what
impolite veracities would shatter. The system, it is contended, on the whole, civilizes the
individuals whose natures it may repress, and is better than a sincerity which would set them
by the ears, and put a veto on all social intercourse whatever. But strong as may be the argument
in favor of the system, it is certainly as important that it should be assailed as that it
should exist, and that it should be assailed from within; for, carried out unchecked to its
last consequences, it results in sinking its victims into the realm of vapors and vacuity,
its representative being the all-accomplished London man of fashion who committed suicide to
save himself from the bore of dressing and undressing. Besides, in "good society," so called,
the best sentiments and ideas can sometimes get expression only through the form of bad manners.
It is charming to be in a circle where human nature is pranked out in purple and fine linen,
and where you sometimes see manners as beautiful as the masterpieces of the arts; yet some
people cannot get rid of the uneasy consciousness that a subtle tyranny pervades the room and
ties the tongue,--that philanthropy is impolite, that heroism is ungenteel, that truth, honor,
freedom, humanity, strongly asserted, are marks of a vulgar mind; and many a person, daring
enough to defend his opinions anywhere else, by speech or by the sword, quails in the parlor
before some supercilious coxcomb,

        "Weak in his watery smile
    And educated whisker,"

who can still tattle to the girls that the reformer is "no gentleman."

Now how different all this is, when a man of social grit thrusts himself into a drawing-room,
and with an easy audacity tosses out disagreeable facts and unfashionable truths, the porcelain
crashing as his words fall, and saying everything that no gentleman ought to say, indifferent
to the titter or terror of the women and the offended looks and frightened stare of the men.
How the gilded lies vanish in his presence! How he states, contradicts, confutes! how he smashes
through proprieties to realities, flooding the room with his aggressive vitality, mastering
by main force a position in the most exclusive set, and, by being perfectly indifferent to
their opinion, making it impossible for them to put him down! He thus becomes a social power
by becoming a social rebel,--persecutes conventional politeness into submission to rude veracity,--establishes
an autocracy of man over the gentleman,--and practises a kind of "Come-Outerism," while insisting
on enjoying all the advantages of Go-Interism. Ben Jonson in the age of Elizabeth, Samuel Johnson
in the last century, Carlyle and Brougham in the present, are prominent examples of this somewhat
insolent manhood in the presence of social forms. It is, however, one of the rarest, as it
is one of the ugliest, kinds of human strength; it requires, perhaps, in its combination, full
as many defects as merits; and how difficult is its justifiable exercise we see in the career
of so illustrious a philanthropist as Wilberforce,--a man whose speech in Parliament showed
no lack of vivid conceptions and smiting words, a man whom no threats of personal violence
could intimidate, and who would cheerfully have risked his life for his cause, yet still a
man who could never forget that he was a Tory and a gentleman, who had no grit before lords
and ladies, whose Abolitionism was not sufficiently blunt and downright in the good company
of cabinet ministers, whose sensitive nature flinched at the thought of being conscientiously
impolite and heroically ill-natured, and whose manners were thus frequently in the way of the
full efficiency of his morals. In many respects a hero, in all respects benevolent, he still
was not like Romilly, a man of grit. Politeness has been defined as benevolence in small things.
To be benevolent in great things, decorum must sometimes yield to duty; and Draco, though in
the king's drawing-room, and loyally supporting in Parliament the measures of the ministry,
is still Draco, though cruelty in him has learned the dialect of fashion and clothed itself
in the privileges of the genteel.

Proceeding from social life to business life, we shall find that it is this unamiable, but
indomitable, quality of grit which not only acquires fortunes, but preserves them after they
have been acquired. Much has been said about the pleasures of a good conscience; and among
these I reckon the act of that man who, having wickedly lent certain moneys to a casual acquaintance,
was in the end called upon to advance a sum which transcended his honest means, with a dark
hint, that, if the money was refused, there was but one thing for the casual acquaintance to
do,--that is, to commit suicide. The person thus solicited, in a transient fit of moral enthusiasm,
caught at the hint, and with great earnestness advised the casual acquaintance to do it, on
the ground that it was the only reparation he could make to the numerous persons he had swindled.
And this advice was given with no fear that the guilt of that gentleman's blood would lie on
his soul, for the mission of that gentleman was to continue his existence by sucking out the
life of others, and his last thought was to destroy his own; and it is hardly necessary to
announce that he is still alive and sponging. Indeed, a courageous merchant must ever by ready
to face the fact that he will be called a curmudgeon, if he will not ruin himself to please
others, and a weak fool, if he does. Many a fortune has melted away in the hesitating utterance
of the placable "Yes," which might have been saved by the unhesitating utterance of the implacable
"No!" Indeed, in business, the perfection of grit is this power of saying "No," and saying
it with such wrathful emphasis that the whole race of vampires and harpies are scared from
you counting-room, and your reputation as unenterprising, unbearable niggard is fully established
among all borrowers of money never meant to be repaid, and all projectors of schemes intended
for the benefit of the projectors alone. At the expense of a little temporary obloquy, a man
can thus conquer the right to mind his own business; and having done this, he has shown his
possession of that nerve which, in his business, puts inexorable purpose into clear conceptions,
follows out a plan of operations with sturdy intelligence, and conducts to fortune by the road
of real enterprise. Many others may evince equal shrewdness in framing a project, but they
hesitate, become timid, become confused, at some step in its development. Their character is
not strong enough to back up their intellect. But the iron-like tenacity of the merchant of
grit holds on to the successful end.

You can watch the operation of this quality in every-day business transactions. Your man of
grit seems never deficient in news of the markets, though he may employ no telegraph-operator.
Thus, about two years ago, a great Boston holder of flour went to considerable expense in obtaining
special intelligence, which would, when generally known, carry flour up to ten dollars and
a half a barrel. Another dealer, suspecting something, went to him and said, "What do you say
flour's worth to-day?"--"Oh," was the careless answer, "I suppose it might bring ten dollars."--"Well,"
retorted the querist, gruffly, "I've got five thousand barrels on hand, and I should like to
see the man who would give me ten dollars barrel for it!"--"I will," said the other, quickly,
disclosing his secret by the eagerness of his manner, "Well," was the reply, "all I can say
is, then, that I have seen the man."

The importance of this quality as a business power is most apparent in those frightful panics
which periodically occur in our country, and which sometimes tax the people more severely than
wars and standing armies. In regard to one of the last of these financial hurricanes, that
of 1857, there can be little doubt, that, if the acknowledged holders of financial power had
been men of real grit, it might have been averted; there can be as little doubt, that, when
it burst, if they had been men of real grit, it might have been made less disastrous. But they
kept nearly all their sails set up to the point of danger, and when the tempest was on them
ignominiously took to their boats and abandoned the ship. And as for the crew and passengers,
it was the old spectacle of a shipwreck,--individuals squabbling to get a plank, instead of
combining to construct a raft.

Indeed, there was something pitiable in the state of things which that panic revealed in the
business centres of the country. Common sense seemed to be disowned by mutual consent; an infectious
fear went shivering from man to man; and a strange fascination led people to increase by suspicions
and reports the peril which threatened their own destruction. Men, being thus thrown back upon
the resources of character, were put to terrible tests. As the intellect cannot act when the
will is paralyzed, many a merchant, whose debts really bore no proportion to his property,
was seen sitting, like the French prisoner in the iron cage whose sides were hourly contracting,
stupidly gazing at the bars which were closing in upon him, and feeling in advance the pang
of the iron which was to cut into his flesh and crush his bones.

In invigorating contrast to the panic-smitten, we had the privilege to witness many an example
of the grit-inspired. Then it was that the grouty, taciturn, obstinate trader, so unpopular
in ordinary times, showed the stuff he was made of. Then his bearing was cheer and hope to
all who looked upon him. How he girded himself for the fight, resolved, if he died, to die
hard! How he tugged with obstacles as if they were personal affronts, and hurled them to the
right and to the left! How grandly, amid the chatter of the madmen about him, came his few
words of sense and sanity! And then his brain, brightened, not bewildered, by the danger, how
clear and alert it was, how fertile in expedients, how firm in principles, with a glance that
pierced through the ignorant present to the future, seeing as calmly and judging as accurately
in the tempest as it had in the sunshine. Never losing heart and never losing head, with as
strong a grip on his honor as on his property, detesting the very thought of failure, knowing
that he might be broken to pieces, but determined that he would not weakly "go to pieces,"
he performed the greatest service to the community, as well as to himself, by resolutely, at
any sacrifice, paying his debts when they became due. It is a pity that such austere Luthers
of commerce, trade-militant instead of church-militant, who meet hard times with a harder will,
had not a little beauty in their toughness, so that grit, lifted to heroism, would allure affection
as well as enforce respect. But their sense is so rigid, their integrity so gruff, and their
courage so unjoyous, that all the genial graces fly their companionship; and a libertine Sheridan,
with Ancient Pistol's motto of "Base is the slave that pays," will often be more popular, even
among the creditor portion of the public, than these crabbed heroes, and, if need be, surly
martyrs, of mercantile honesty and personal honor. The true motto for a party is neither "Measures,
not men," nor "Men, not measures," but "Measures in men,"--measures which are in their blood
as well as in their brain and on their lips.

Opinions embodied in men, and thus made aggressive and militant, are the opinions which mark
the union of thought with grit. A politician of this class is not content to comprehend and
wield the elements of power already existing in a community, but he aims to make his individual
conviction and purpose dominant over the convictions and purposes of the accredited exponents
of public opinion. He cares little about his unpopularity at the start, and doggedly persists
in his course against obstacles which seem insurmountable. A great, but mischievous, example
of this power appeared in our own generation in the person of Mr. Calhoun, a statesman who
stamped his individual mind on the policy and thinking of the country more definitely, perhaps,
than any statesman since Hamilton, though his influence has, on the whole, been as evil as
Hamilton's was, on the whole, beneficent. Keen-sighted, far-sighted, and inflexible, Mr. Calhoun
clearly saw the logical foundations and logical results of the institution of Slavery; and
though at first called an abstractionist and a fanatic by the looser thinkers of his own region,
his inexorable argumentation, conquering by degrees politicians who could reason, made itself
felt at last among politicians who could not reason; and the conclusions of his logic were
adopted by thousands whose brains would have broken in the attempt to follow its processes.
One of those rare deductive reasoners whose audacity marches abreast their genius, he would
have been willing to fight to the last gasp for a conclusion which he had laboriously reached
by rigid deduction through a score of intermediate steps, from premises in themselves repugnant
to the primal instincts both of reason and humanity. Always ready to meet anybody in argument,
he detested all reasoners who attempted to show the fallacy of his argument by pointing out
the dangerous results to which it led. In this he sometimes brought to mind that inflexible
professor of the deductive method who was timidly informed that his principles, if carried
out, would split the world to pieces. "Let it split," was his careless answer; "there are enough
more planets." By pure intellectual grit, he thus effected a revolution in the ideas and sentiments
of the South, and through the South made his mind act on the policy of the nation. The present
war has its root in the principles he advocated. Never flinching from any logical consequence
of his principles, Mr. Calhoun did not rest until through him religion, morality, statesmanship,
the Constitution of the United States, the constitution of man, were all bound in black. Chattel
slavery, the most nonsensical as well as detestable of oppressions, was, to him, the most beneficent
contrivance of human wisdom. He called it an institution: Mr. Emerson has more happily styled
it a destitution. At last the chains of his iron logic were heard clanking on the whole Southern
intellect. Reasoning the most masterly was employed to annihilate the first principles of reason;
the understanding of man was insanely placed in direct antagonism to his moral instincts; and
finally the astounding conclusion was reached, that the Creator of mankind has his pet races,--that
God himself scouts his colored children, and nicknames them "Niggers."

It is delicious to watch the exulting and somewhat contemptuous audacity with which he hurries
to the unforeseen conclusion those who have once been simple enough to admit his premises.
Towards men who have some logical capacity his tone is that of respectful impatience; but as
he goads on the reluctant and resentful victims of his reasoning, who loiter and limp painfully
in the steps of his rapid deductions, he seems to say, with ironic scorn, "A little faster,
my poor cripples!"

So confident was Mr. Calhoun in his capacity to demonstrate the validity of his horrible creed,
that he was ever eager to measure swords with the most accomplished of his antagonists in the
duel of debate. And it must be said that he despised all the subterfuges and evasions by which,
in ordinary controversies, the real question is dodged, and went directly to the heart of the
matter,--a resolute intellect, burning to grapple with another resolute intellect in a vital
encounter. In common legislative debates, on the contrary, there is no vital encounter. The
exasperated opponents, personally courageous, but deficient in clear and fixed ideas, mutually
contrive to avoid the things essential to be discussed, while wantoning in all the forms of
discussion. They assert, brag, browbeat, dogmatize, domineer, pummel each other with the argumentum
ad hominem, and abundantly prove that they stand for opposite opinions; we watch them as we
watch the feints and hits of a couple of pugilists in the ring; but after the sparring is over,
we find that neither the Southern champion nor the Northern bruiser has touched the inner reality
of the question to decide which they stripped themselves for the fight. In regard to the intellectual
issue, they are like two bullies enveloping themselves in an immense concealing dust of arrogant
words, and, as they fearfully retreat from personal collision, shouting furiously to each other,
"Let me get at him!" And this is what is commonly called grit in politics,--abundant backbone
to face persons, deficient brain-bone to encounter principles.

Not so was it when two debaters like Mr. Calhoun and Mr. Webster engaged in the contest of
argument. Take, for example, as specimens of pure mental manliness, their speeches in the Senate,
in 1833, on the question whether or not the Constitution is a compact between sovereign States.
Give Mr. Calhoun those two words, "compact" and "sovereign," and he conducts you logically
to Nullification and to all the consequences of Nullification. Andrew Jackson, a man in his
kind, of indomitable resolution, intended to arrest the argument at a convenient point by the
sword, and thus save himself the bother of going farther in the chain of inferences than he
pleased. Mr. Webster grappled with the argument and with the man; and it is curious to watch
that spectacle of a meeting between two such hostile minds. Each is confident of the strength
of his own position; each is eager for a close hug of dialectics. Far from avoiding the point,
they drive directly towards it, clearing their essential propositions from mutual misconception
by the sharpest analysis and exactest statement. To get their minds near each other, to think
close to the subject, to feel the griding contact of pure intellect with pure intellect, and,
as spiritual beings, to conduct the war of reason with spiritual weapons,--this is their ambition.
Conventionally courteous to each other, they are really in the deadliest antagonism; for their
contest is the tug and strain of soul with soul, and each feels that defeat would be worse
than death. No nervous irritation, no hard words, no passionate recriminations, no flinching
from unexpected difficulties, no substitution of declamatory sophisms for rigorous inferences--but
close, calm, ruthless grapple of thought with thought. To each, at the time, life seems to
depend on the issue--not merely the life which a sword-cut or pistol-bullet can destroy, but
immortal life, the life of immaterial minds and personalities, thus brought into spiritual
feud. They know very well, that, whatever be the real result, the Webster-men will give the
victory of argument to Webster, the Calhoun-men the victory of argument to Calhoun; but that
consideration does not enter their thoughts as they prepare to close in that combat which is
to determine, not to the world, but to each other, which is the stronger intellect, and which
is in the right Few ever appreciate great men in this hostile attitude, not of their passions,
but of their minds; and those who do it the least are their furious partisans. Most people
are contented with the argument that tells, and are apt to be bored with the argument which
refutes; but a true reasoner despises even his success, if he feels that two persons, himself
and his opponent, know that he is in the wrong. And the strain on the whole being in this contest
of intellect with intellect, and the reluctance with which the most combative enter it unless
they are consciously strong, is well illustrated by Dr. Johnson's remark to some friends, when
sickness had relaxed the tough fibre of his brain,--"If that fellow Burke were here now, he
would kill me."

A peculiar kind of grit, not falling under any of the special expressions I have noted, yet
partaking in some degree of all, is illustrated in the character of Lieutenant-General Grant.
Without an atom of pretension or rhetoric, with none of the external signs of energy and intrepidity,
making no parade of the immovable purpose, iron nerve, and silent, penetrating intelligence
God has put into him, his tranquil greatness is hidden from superficial scrutiny behind a cigar,
as President Lincoln's is behind a joke. When anybody tries to coax, cajole, overawe, browbeat,
or deceive Lincoln, the President nurses his leg, and is reminded of a story; when anybody
tries the same game with Grant, the General listens and--smokes.

It is curious to mark a variation of this intellectual hardihood and personal force when the
premises are not in the solidities, but in the oddities of thought and character, and whim
stands stiffly up to the remotest inferences which may be deduced from its insanest freaks
of individual opinion. Thus it is said that in one of our country towns there is an old gentleman
who is an eccentric hater of women; and this crotchet of his character he carries to its extreme
logical consequences. Not content with general declamation against the sex, he turns eagerly,
the moment he receives the daily newspaper, to the list of deaths; and if he sees the death
of a woman recorded, he gleefully exclaims,--"Good! good! there's another of 'em gone!"

We have heard of a man who had conceived a violent eccentric prejudice against negroes; and
he was not content with chiming in with the usual cant of the prejudice that they ought not
to be allowed in our churches and in our rail-road-cars, but vociferated, that, if he had his
way, they should not be allowed in Africa! The advantage of grit in this respect is in its
annihilating a prejudice by presenting a vivid vision of its theoretical consequences. Carlyle
has an eccentric hatred of the eighteenth century, its manners, morals, politics, religion,
and men. He has expressed this in various ways for thirty years; but in his last work, the
"Life of Frederick the Great," his prejudice reached its logical climax in the assertion, that
the only sensible thing the eighteenth century ever did was blowing out its own brains in the
French Revolution.

Again, in discussion, some men have felicity in replying to a question, others a felicity in
replying to the motive which prompted the question. In one case you get an answer addressed
to your understanding; in the other, an answer which smites like a slap in the face. Thus,
when a pert skeptic asked Martin Luther where God was before He created heaven, Martin stunned
his querist with the retort,--"He was building hell for such idle, presumptuous, fluttering,
and inquisitive spirits as you." And everybody will recollect the story of the self-complacent
cardinal who went to confess to a holy monk, and thought by self-accusation to get the reputation
of a saint.

"I have been guilty of every kind of sin," snivelled the cardinal.

"It is a solemn fact," replied the impassive monk.

"I have indulged in pride, ambition, malice, and revenge," groaned the cardinal.

"It is too true," answered the monk.

"Why, you fool," exclaimed the enraged dignitary, "you don't imagine that I mean all this to
the letter!"

"Ho! ho!" said the monk, "so you have been a liar, too, have you?"

This relentless rebuker of shams furnishes us with a good transition to another department
of the subject, namely, moral hardihood, or grit organized in conscience, and applying the
most rigorous laws of ethics to the practical affairs of life. Now there is a wide difference
between moral men, so called, and men moralized,--between men who lazily adopt and lazily practise
the conventional moral proprieties of the time, and men transformed into the image of inexorable,
unmerciful moral ideas, men in whom moral maxims appear organized as moral might. There are
thousands who are prodigal of moral and benevolent opinions, and honestly eloquent in loud
professions of what they would do in case circumstances called upon them to act; but when the
occasion is suddenly thrust upon them, when temptation, leering into every corner and crevice
of their weak and selfish natures, connects the notion of virtue with the reality of sacrifice,
then, in that sharp pinch, they become suddenly apprised of the difference between rhetoric
and rectitude, and find that their speeches have been far ahead of their powers of performance.
Thus, in one of Gerald Griffin's novels, there is a scene in which a young Irish student, fresh
from his scholastic ethics, amazes the company at his father's table, who are all devout believers
in the virtues of the hair-trigger, by an eloquent declamation against the folly and the sin
of duelling. At last one of the set gets sufficient breath to call him a coward. The hot Irish
blood is up in an instant, a tumbler is thrown at the head of the doubter of his courage, and
in ten seconds the young moralist is crossing swords with his antagonist in a duel.

But the characteristic of moral grit is equality with the occasions which exact its exercise.
It is morality with thews and sinews and blood and passions,--morality made man, and eager
to put its phrases to the test of action. It gives and takes hard blows,--aims not only to
be upright in deed, but downright in word,--silences with a "Thus saith the Lord" all palliations
of convenient sins,--scowls ominously at every attempt to reconcile the old feud between the
right and the expedient and make them socially shake hands,--and when cant taints the air,
clears it with good wholesome rage and execration. On the virtues of this stubborn conscientiousness
it is needless to dilate; its limitations spring from its tendency to disconnect morality from
mercy, and law from love,--its too frequent substitution of moral antipathies for moral insight,--and
its habit of describing individual men, not as they are in themselves, but as they appear to
its offended conscience. Understanding sin better than it understands sinners, it sometimes
sketches phantoms rather than paints portraits,--identifies the weakly wicked with the extreme
of Satanic wickedness,--and in its assaults, pitches at its adversaries rather than really
pitches into them. But, in a large moral view, the light of intellectual perception should
shine far in advance of the heat of ethical invective, and an ounce of characterization is
worth a ton of imprecations. Indeed, moral grit, relatively admirable as it is, partakes of
the inherent defect of other and lower kinds of grit, inasmuch as its force is apt to be as
unsympathetic as it is uncompromising, as ungracious as it is invincible. It drives rather
than draws, cuffs rather than coaxes. Intolerant of human infirmity, it is likewise often intolerant
of all forms of human excellence which do not square with its own conceptions of right; and
its philanthropy in the abstract is apt to secrete a subtile misanthropy in the concrete. Brave,
unselfish, self-sacrificing, and flinching from no consequences which its principles may bring
upon itself, it flinches from no consequences which they may bring upon others; and its attitude
towards the laws and customs of instituted imperfection is almost as sourly belligerent as
towards those of instituted iniquity.

Men of this austere and somewhat crabbed rectitude may be found in every department of life,
but they are most prominent and most efficient when they engage in the reform of abuses, whether
those abuses be in manners, institutions, or religion; and here they never shrink from the
rough, rude work of the cause they espouse. They are commonly adored by their followers, commonly
execrated by their opponents; but they receive the execration as the most convincing proof
that they have performed their duties, as the shrieks of the wounded testify to the certainty
of the shots. Indeed, they take a kind of grim delight in so pointing their invective that
the adversaries of their principles are turned into enemies of their persons, and scout at
all fame which does not spring from obloquy. As they thus exist in a state of war, the gentler
elements of their being fall into the background; the bitterness of the strife works into their
souls, and gives to their conscientious wrath a certain Puritan pitilessness of temper and
tone. In the thick of the fight, their battle-cry is, "No quarter to the enemies of God and
man!"--and as, unfortunately, there are few men who, tried by their standards, are friends
of man, population very palpably thins as the lava-tide of their invective sweeps over it,
and to the mental eye men, disappear as man emerges.

The gulf which yawns between uncompromising moral obligation and compromising human conduct
is so immense that these fierce servants of the Lord seem to be fanatics and visionaries. But
history demonstrates that they are among the most practical of all the forces which work in
human affairs; for, without taking into account the response which their inflexible morality
finds in the breasts of inflexibly moral men, their morality, in its application to common
life, often becomes materialized, and shows an intimate connection with the most ordinary human
appetites and passions. They commune with the mass of men through the subtile freemasonry of
discontent. Compelled to hurl the thunderbolts of the moral law against injustice in possession,
they unwittingly set fire to injustice smouldering in unrealized passions; and their speech
is translated and transformed, in its passage into the public mind, into some such shape as
this:--"These few persons who are dominant in Church and State, and who, while you physically
and spiritually starve, are fed fat by the products of your labor and the illusions of your
superstition, are powerful and prosperous, not from any virtue in themselves, but from the
violation of those laws which God has ordained for the beneficent government of the universe.
Their property and their power are the signs, not of their merits, but of their sins." The
instinctive love of property and power are thus addressed to overturn the present possessors
of property and power; and the vices of men are unconsciously enlisted in the service of the
regeneration of man. The motives which impel whole masses of the community are commonly different
from the motives of those reformers who urge the community to revolt; and their fervent denunciations
of injustice bring to their side thousands of men who, perhaps unconsciously to themselves,
only desire a chance to be unjust. The annals of all emancipations, revolutions, and reformations
are disfigured by this fact. Better than what they supplant, their good is still relative,
not absolute.

In the history of religious reforms, few men better illustrate this hard moral manliness, as
distinguished from the highest moral heroism, than the sturdy Scotch reformer, John Knox. Tenacious,
pugnacious, thoroughly honest and thoroughly earnest, superior to all physical and moral fear,
destitute equally of fine sentiments and weak emotions, blurting out unwelcome opinions to
queens as readily as to peasants, and in words which hit and hurt like knocks with the fist,
he is one of those large, but somewhat coarse-grained natures, that influence rude populations
by having so much in common with them, and in which the piety of the Christian, the thought
of the Protestant, and the zeal of the martyr are curiously blended with the ferocity of the
demagogue. Jenny Geddes, at the time when Archbishop Laud attempted to force Episcopacy upon
Scotland, is a fair specimen of the kind of character which the teachings and the practice
of such a man would tend to produce in a nation. This rustic heroine was present when the new
bishop, hateful to Presbyterian eyes, began the service, with the smooth saying, "Let us read
the Collect of the Day." Jenny rose in wrath, and cried out to the surpliced official of the
Lord,--"Thou foul thief, wilt thou say mass at my lug?" and hurled her stool at his head. Then
rose cries of "A Pope! a Pope! Stone him!" And "the worship of the Lord in Episcopal decency
and order" was ignominiously stopped. And in the next reign, when the same thing was attempted,
the Covenanters, the true spiritual descendants of Knox, opposed to the most brutal persecution
a fierce, morose heroism, strangely compounded of barbaric passion and Christian fortitude.
They were the most perfect specimens of pure moral grit the world has ever seen. In the great
theological humorist of the nineteenth century, the Reverend Sydney Smith, the legitimate intellectual
successor of the Reverend Rabelais and the Reverend Swift and the Reverend Sterne, their sullen
intrepidity excites a mingled feeling, in which fun strives with admiration. But from the graver
historian, developing the historic significance of their determined resistance to the insolent
claims of ecclesiastical authority, their desperate hardihood elicits a more fitting tribute.

But the man who, in modern times, stands out most prominently as the representative of this
tough physical and moral fibre is Oliver Cromwell, the greatest of that class of Puritans who
combined the intensest religious passions with the powers of the soldier and the statesman,
and who, in some wild way, reconciled their austere piety with remorseless efficiency in the
world of facts. After all the materials for an accurate judgment of Cromwell which have been
collected by the malice of his libellers and the veneration of his partisans, he is still a
puzzle to psychologists; for no one, so far, has bridged the space which separates the seeming
anarchy of his mind from the executive decision of his conduct. A coarse, strong, massive English
nature, thoroughly impregnated with Hebrew thought and Hebrew passion,--democratic in his sympathy
with the rudest political and religious feelings of his party, autocratic in the consciousness
of superior abilities and tyrannic will,--emancipated from the illusions of vanity, but not
from those of ambition and pride,--shrinking from no duty and no policy from the fear of obloquy
or the fear of death,--a fanatic and a politician,--a demagogue and a dictator,--seeking the
kingdom of heaven, but determined to take the kingdom of England by the way,--believing in
God, believing in himself, and believing in his Ironsides,--clothing spiritual faith in physical
force, and backing dogmas and prayers with pikes and cannon,--anxious at once that his troops
should trust in God and keep their powder dry,--with a mind deep indeed, but distracted by
internal conflicts, and prolific only in enormous, half-shaped ideas, which stammer into expression
at once obscure and ominous, the language a strange compound of the slang of the camp and the
mystic phrases of inspired prophets and apostles,--we still feel throughout, that, whatever
may be the contradictions of his character, they are not such as to impair the ruthless energy
of his will. Whatever he dared to think he dared to do. No practical emergency ever found him
deficient either in sagacity or resolution, however it might have found him deficient in mercy.
He overrode the moral judgments of ordinary men as fiercely as he overrode their physical resistance,
crushing prejudices as well as Parliaments, ideas as well as armies; and whether his task was
to cut off the head of an unmanageable king, or disperse an unmanageable legislative assembly,
or massacre an unmanageable Irish garrison, or boldly establish himself as the uncontrolled
supreme authority of the land, he ever did it thoroughly and unrelentingly, and could always
throw the responsibility of the deed on the God of battles and the God of Cromwell. In all
this we observe the operation of a colossal practical force rather than an ideal power, of
grit rather than heroism. However much he may command that portion of our sympathies which
thrill at the touch of vigorous action, there are other sentiments of our being which detect
something partial, vulgar, and repulsive even in his undisputed greatness.

In truth, grit, in its highest forms, is not a form of courage deserving of unmixed respect
and admiration. Admitting its immense practical influence in public and private life, conceding
its value in the rough, direct struggle of person with person and opinions with institutions,
it is still by no means the top and crown of heroic character; for it lacks the element of
beauty and the element of sympathy; it is individual, unsocial, bigoted, relatively to occasions;
and its force has no necessary connection with grandeur, generosity, and enlargement of soul.
Even in great men, like Cromwell, there is something in its aspect which is harsh, ugly, haggard,
and ungenial; even in them it is strong by the stifling of many a generous thought and tolerant
feeling; and when it descends to animate sterile and stunted natures, endowed with sufficient
will to make their meanness or malignity efficient, its unfruitful force is absolutely hateful.
It has done good work for the cause of truth and right; but it has also done bad work for the
cause of falsehood and wrong: for evil has its grit as well as virtue. As it lacks, suppresses,
or subordinates imagination, it is shorn of an important portion of a complete manhood; for
it not only loses the perception of beauty, but the power of passing into other minds. It never
takes the point of view of the persons it opposes; its object is victory, not insight; and
it thus fails in that modified mercy to men which springs from an interior knowledge of their
characters. Even when it is the undaunted force through which moral wrath expresses its hatred
of injustice and wrong, its want of imaginative perception makes it somewhat caricature the
sinners it inveighs against. It converts imperfect or immoral men into perfect demons, which
humanity as well as reason refuses to accept; and it is therefore not surprising that the prayer
of its indignant morality sometimes is, "Almighty God, condemn them, for they know what they
do!" But we cannot forget that there sounds down the ages, from the saddest and most triumphant
of all martyrdoms, a different and a diviner prayer,--"Father, forgive them, for they know
not what they do!"

Indeed, however much we may be struck with the startling immediateness of effect which follows
the exercise of practical force, we must not forget the immense agency in human affairs of
the ideal powers of the soul. These work creatively from within to mould character, not only
inflaming great passions, but touching the springs of pity, tenderness, gentleness, and love,--above
all, infusing that wide-reaching sympathy which sends the individual out of the grit-guarded
fortress of his personality into the wide plain of the race. The culmination of these ideal
powers is in genius and heroism, which draw their inspiration from ideal and spiritual sources,
and radiate it in thoughts beautifully large and deeds beautifully brave. They do not merely
exert power, they communicate it. If you are overcome by a man of grit, he insolently makes
you conscious of your own weakness. If you are overcome by genius and heroism, you are made
participants in their strength; for they overcome only to invigorate and uplift. They sweep
on their gathering disciples to the object they have in view, by making it an object of affection
as well as duty. Their power to allure and to attract is not lost even when their goal is the
stake or the cross. They never, in transient ignominy and pain, lose sight and feeling of the
beauty and bliss inseparably associated with goodness and virtue; and the happiest death-beds
have often been on the rack or in the flame of the hero-martyr. And they are also, in their
results, great practical influences; for they break down the walls which separate man from
man,--by magnanimous thought or magnanimous act shame us out of our bitter personal contentions,
and flash the sentiment of a common nature into our individual hatreds and oppositions. As
grit decomposes society into an aggregate of strong and weak persons, genius and heroism unite
them in one humanity. Thus, not many years ago, we were all battling about the higher law and
the law to return fugitive slaves. It was argument against argument, passion against passion,
person against person, grit against grit. The notions advanced regarding virtue and vice, justice
and injustice, humanity and inhumanity, were as different as if the controversy had not been
between men and men, but between men and cattle. There were no signs among the combatants that
they had the common reason and the common instincts of a common nature. Then came a woman of
genius, who refused to credit the horrible conceit that the diversity was essential, who resolutely
believed that the human heart was a unit, and whose glance, piercing the mist of opinions and
interests, saw in the deep and universal sources of humane and human action the exact point
where her blow would tell; and in a novel unexampled in the annals of literature for popular
effect, shook the whole public reason and public conscience of the country, by the most searching
of all appeals to its heart and imagination.

THE PETTIBONE LINEAGE.

ROBIN BADFELLOW.

    Four bluish eggs all in the moss!
     Soft-lined home on the cherry-bough!
    Life is trouble, and love is loss,--
     There's only one robin now!

    You robin up in the cherry-tree,
     Singing your soul away,
    Great is the grief befallen me,
     And how can you be so gay?

    Long ago when you cried in the nest,
     The last of the sickly brood,
    Scarcely a pin-feather warming your breast,
     Who was it brought you food?

    Who said, "Music, come fill his throat,
     Or ever the May be fled"?
    Who was it loved the wee sweet note
     And the bosom's sea-shell red?

    Who said, "Cherries, grow ripe and big,
     Black and ripe for this bird of mine"?
    How little bright-bosom bends the twig,
     Drinking the black-heart's wine!

    Now that my days and nights are woe,
     Now that I weep for love's dear sake,
    There you go singing away as though
     Never a heart could break!

ICE AND ESQUIMAUX.

CHAPTER IV.

AUTOCHTHONES

July 30.--At Hopedale, lat. 55° 30', we come upon an object of first-class interest, worthy
of the gravest study,--an original and pre-Adamite man. In two words I give the reader a key
to my final conclusions, or impressions, concerning the Esquimaux race.

Original: Shakspeare is a copyist, and England a plagiarism, in comparison with this race.
The Esquimaux has done all for himself: he has developed his own arts, adjusted himself by
his own wit to the Nature which surrounds him. Heir to no Rome, Greece, Persia, India, he stands
there in the sole strength of his native resources, rich only in the traditionary accomplishments
of his own race. Cut off equally from the chief bounties of Nature, he has small share in the
natural wealth of mankind. When Ceres came to the earth, and blessed it, she forgot him. The
grains, the domestic animals, which from the high plateaus of Asia descended with the fathers
of history to the great fields of the world, to him came not. The sole domestic animal he uses,
the dog, is not the same with that creature as known elsewhere; he has domesticated a wolf,
and made a dog for himself.

Not only is he original, but one of the most special of men, related more strictly than almost
any other to a particular aspect of Nature. Inseparable from the extreme North, the sea-shore,
and the seal, he is himself, as it were, a seal come to feet and hands, and preying upon his
more primitive kindred. The cetacean of the land, he is localized, like animals,--not universal,
like civilized man. He is no inhabitant of the globe as a whole, but is contained within special
poles. His needle does not point north and south; it is commanded by special attractions, and
points only from shore to sea and from sea to shore in the arctic zone. Nor is this relation
to particular phases of Nature superficial merely, a relation of expedient and convenience;
it penetrates, saturates, nay, anticipates and moulds him. Whether he has come to this correspondence
by original creation or by slow adjustment, he certainly does now correspond in his whole physical
and mental structure to the limited and special surroundings of his life,--the seal itself
or the eider-duck not more.

He is pre-Adamite, I said,--and name him thus not as a piece of rhetorical smartness, but in
gravest characterization.

The first of human epochs is that when the thoughts, imaginations, beliefs of men become to
them objects, on which further thought and action are to be adjusted, on which further thought
and action may be based. So long as man is merely responding to outward and physical circumstances,
so long he is living by bread alone, and has no history. It is when he begins to respond to
himself--to create necessities and supplies out of his own spirit,--to build architectures
on foundations and out of materials that exist only in virtue of his own spiritual activity,--to
live by bread which grows, not out of the soil, but out of the soul,--it is then, then only,
that history begins. This one may be permitted to name the Adamite epoch.

The Esquimaux belongs to that period, more primitive, when man is simply responding to outward
Nature, to physical necessities. He invents, but does not create; he adjusts himself to circumstances,
but not to ideas; he works cunningly upon materials which he has found, but never on material
which owes its existence to the productive force of his own spirit.

In going to look upon the man of this race, you sail, not merely over seas, but over ages,
epochs, unknown periods of time,--sail beyond antiquity itself, and issue into the obscure
existence that antedates history. Arrived there, you may turn your eye to the historical past
of man as to a barely possible future. Palestine and Greece, Moses and Homer, as yet are not.
Who shall dare to say that they can be? Surely that were but a wild dream! Expel the impossible
fancy from your mind! Go, spear a seal, and be a reasonable being!--Never enthusiast had a
dream of the future so unspeakably Utopian as actual history becomes, when seen from the Esquimaux,
or pre-Adamite, point of view.

Swiss lakes are raked, Belgian caves spaded and hammered, to find relics of old, pre-historical
races. Go to Labrador, and you find the object sought above ground. There he is, preserving
all the characters of his extinct congeners,--small in stature, low and smooth in cranium,
held utterly in the meshes of Nature, skilled only to meet ingeniously the necessities she
imposes, and meeting them rudely, as man ever does till the ideal element comes in: for any
fine feeling of even physical wants, any delicacy of taste, any high notion of comfort, is
due less to the animal than to the spiritual being of man.

A little sophisticated he is now, getting to feel himself obsolete in this strange new world.
He begins to borrow, and yet is unable radically to change; outwardly he gains a very little
from civilization, and grows inwardly poorer and weaker by all that he gains. His day wanes
apace; soon it will be past. He begins to nurse at the breasts of the civilized world; and
the foreign aliment can neither sustain his ancient strength nor give him new. Civilization
forces upon him a rivalry to which he is unequal; it wrests the seal from his grasp, thins
it out of his waters; and he and his correlative die away together.

       *       *       *       *       *

We reached Hopedale, as intimated above, on the morning of the 30th of July, at least a month
later than had been hoped. The reader will see by the map that this place is about half way
from the Strait of Belle Isle to Hudson's Strait. We were to go no farther north. This was
a great disappointment; for the expectation of all, and the keen desire of most, had been to
reach at least Cape Chudleigh, at the opening of Hudson's Strait. Ice and storm had hindered
us: they were not the only hindrances.

"The Fates are against us," said one.

"It is true," answered the Elder,--"the Fates are against us: I know of nothing more fatal
than imbecility."

However, we should be satisfied; for here we have fairly penetrated the great solitudes of
the North. Lower Labrador is visited by near forty thousand fishermen annually, and vessels
there are often more frequent than in Boston Bay. But at a point not far from the fifty-fifth
parallel of latitude you leave all these behind, and leave equally the white residents of the
coast: to fishermen and residents alike the region beyond is as little known as the interior
of Australia. There their world comes to an end; there the unknown begins. Knowledge and curiosity
alike pause there; toward all beyond their only feeling is one of vague dislike and dread.
And so I doubt not it was with the ordinary inhabitant of Western Europe before the discovery
of America. The Unknown, breaking in surf on his very shores, did not invite him, but dimly
repelled. Thought about it, attraction toward it, would seem to him far-fetched, gratuitous,
affected, indicating at best a feather-headed flightiness of mind. The sailors of Columbus
probably regarded him much as Sancho Panza does Don Quixote, with an obscure, overpowering
awe, and yet with a very definite contempt.

On our return we passed two Yankee fishermen in the Strait of Belle Isle. The nearer hailed.

"How far down [up] have you been?"

"To Hopedale."

"WHERE?"--in the tone of one who hears distinctly enough, but cannot believe that he hears.

"Hopedale."

"H-o-p-e-d-a-l-e! Where the Devil's that?"

"A hundred and fifty miles beyond Cape Harrison." (Cape Weback on the map.)

Inarticulate gust of astonishment in response.

"Where did he say?" inquires some one in the farther schooner.

"----! He's been to the North Pole!"

To him it was all North Pole beyond Cape Harrison, and he evidently looked upon us much as
he might upon the apparition of the Flying Dutchman, or some other spectre-ship.

The supply-ship which yearly visits the Moravian stations on this coast anchored in the harbor
of Hopedale ten minutes before us: we had been rapidly gaining upon her in our Flying Yankee
for the last twenty miles. Signal-guns had answered each other from ship and shore; the missionaries
were soon on board, and men and women were falling into each other's arms with joyful, mournful
kisses and tears. The ship returned some missionaries after long absence; it brought also a
betrothed lady, next day to be married: there was occasion for joy, even beyond wont on these
occasions, when, year by year, the missionary-exiles feel with bounding blood the touch of
civilization and fatherland. But now those who came on board brought sad tidings,--for one
of their ancient colaborers, closely akin to the new comers, had within a day or two died.
Love and death the world over; and also the hope of love without death.

Our eyes have been drawn to them; it is time to have a peep at Hopedale.

I had been so long looking forward to this place, had heard and thought of it so much as an
old mission-station, where was a village of Christian Esquimaux, that I fully expected to see
a genuine village, with houses, wharves, streets. It would not equal our towns, of course.
The people were not cleanly; the houses would be unpainted, and poor in comparison with ours.
I had taken assiduous pains to tone down my expectations, and felt sure that I had moderated
them liberally,--nay, had been philosophical enough to make disappointment impossible, and
open the opposite possibility of a pleasant surprise. I conceived that in this respect I had
done the discreet and virtuous thing, and silently moralized, not without self-complacency,
upon the folly of carrying through the world expectations which the fact, when seen, could
only put out of countenance. "Make your expectations zero," I said with Sartor.

I need not put them below zero. That would be too cold an anticipation to carry even to this
latitude. Zero: a poor, shabby village these Christian Esquimaux will have built, even after
nigh a century of Moravian tuition. Still it will be a real village, not a distracted jumble
of huts, such as we had seen below.

The prospect had been curiously pleasing. True, I desired much to see the unadulterated Esquimaux.
But that would come, I had supposed, in the further prosecution of our voyage. Here I could
see what they would become under loving instruction,--could gauge their capabilities, and thus
answer one of the prime questions I had brought.

A real Hopedale, after all this wild, sterile, hopeless coast! A touch of civilization, to
contrast with the impression of that Labradorian rag-tag existence which we had hitherto seen,
and which one could not call human without coughing! I like deserts and wilds,--but, if you
please, by way of condiment or sauce to civilization, not for a full meal. I have not the heroic
Thoreau-digestion, and grow thin after a time on a diet of moss and granite, even when they
are served with ice. Lift the curtain, therefore, and let us look forthwith on your Hopedale.

"Hopedale? Why, here it is,--look!"

Well, I have been doing nothing less for the last half-hour. If looking could make a village,
I should begin to see one. There, to be sure, is the mission-house, conspicuous enough, quaint
and by no means unpleasing. It is a spacious, substantial, two-story edifice, painted in two
shades of a peculiar red, and looking for all the world as if a principal house, taken from
one of those little German toy-villages which are in vogue about Christmas, had been enormously
magnified, and shipped to Labrador. There, too, and in similar colors, is the long chapel,
on the centre of whose roof there is a belfry, which looks like two thirds of immense red egg,
drawn up at the top into a spindle, and this surmounted by a weathercock,--as if some giant
had attempted to blow the egg from beneath, and had only blown out of it this small bird with
a stick to stand on! Ah, yes! and there is the pig-sty,--not in keeping with the rest, by any
means! It must be that they keep a pig only now and then, and for a short time, and house it
any way for that little while. But no, it is not a piggery; it is not a building at all; it
is some chance heap of rubbish, which will be removed to-morrow.

The mission-station, then, is here; but the village must be elsewhere. Probably it is on the
other side of this point of land on which the house and chapel are situated; we can see that
the water sweeps around there. That is the case, no doubt; Hopedale is over there. After dinner
we will row around, and have a look at it.

After dinner, however, we decide to go first and pay our respects to the missionaries. They
are entitled to the precedence. We long, moreover, to take the loving, self-sacrificing men
by the hand; while, aside from their special claims to honor, it will be so pleasant to meet
cultivated human beings once more! They are Germans, but their head-quarters are at London;
they will speak English; and if their vocabulary prove scanty, we will try to eke it out with
bits of German.

We row ashore in our own skiff, land, and--Bless us! what is this now? To the right of the
large, neat, comfortable mission-house is a wretched, squalid spatter and hotch-potch of--what
in the world to call them? Huts? Hovels? One has a respect for his mother-tongue,--above all,
if he have assumed obligations toward it by professing the function of a writer; and any term
by which human dwellings are designated must be taken cum grano salis, if applied to these
structures. "It cannot be that this is Christian Hopedale!" Softly, my good Sir; it can be,
for it is!

Reader, do you ever say, "Whew-w-w"? There were three minutes, on the 30th of July last, during
which that piece of interjectional eloquence seemed to your humble servant to embody the whole
dictionary!

To get breath, let us turn again to the mission-mansion, which now, under the effect of sudden
contrast, seems too magnificent to be real, as if it had been built by enchantment rather than
by the labor of man. This is situated half a dozen rods from the shore, at a slight elevation
above it, and looks pleasantly up the bay to the southwest. The site has been happily chosen.
Here, for a wonder, is an acre or two of land which one may call level,--broader toward the
shore, and tapering to a point as it runs back. To the right, as we face it, the ground rises
not very brokenly, giving a small space for the hunch of huts, then falls quickly to the sea;
while beyond, and toward the ocean, islands twenty miles deep close in and shelter all. To
the left go up again the perpetual hills, hills. Everywhere around the bay save here, on island
and main, the immitigable gneiss hills rise bold and sudden from the water, now dimly impurpled
with lichen, now in nakedness of rock surface, yet beautified in their bare severity by alternating
and finely waving stripes of lightest and darkest gray,--as if to show sympathy with the billowy
heaving of the sea.

Forward to the mansion. In front a high, strong, neat picket-fence incloses a pretty flower-yard,
in which some exotics, tastefully arranged, seem to be flourishing well. We knock; with no
manner of haste, and with no seeming of cordial willingness, we are admitted, are shown into
a neat room of good size, and entertained by a couple of the brethren.

One of these only, and he alone among the missionaries, it appeared, spoke English. This was
an elderly, somewhat cold and forbidding personage, of Secession sympathies. He had just returned
from Europe after two years' absence, was fresh from London, and put on the true Exeter-Hall
whine in calling ours "a n-dreadful n-war." He did not press the matter, however, nor in any
manner violate the rôle of cold courtesy which he had assumed; and it was chiefly by the sudden
check and falling of the countenance, when he found us thorough Unionist, that his sympathies
were betrayed. Wine and rusks were brought in, both delicious,--the latter seeming like ambrosia,
after the dough cannon-balls with which our "head cook at the Tremont House" had regaled us.
After a stay of civil brevity we took our leave, and so closed an interview in which we had
been treated with irreproachable politeness, but in which the heart was forbidden to have any
share.

First the missionaries; now the natives. The squat and squalid huts, stuck down upon the earth
without any pretence of raised foundation, and jumbled together, corner to side, back to front,
any way, as if some wind had blown them there, did not improve on acquaintance. The walls,
five feet high, were built of poles some five inches in diameter; the low roof, made of similar
poles, was heavily heaped with earth. What with this deep earth-covering, and with their grovelling
toward the earth in such a flat and neighborly fashion, they had a dreadfully under-foot look,
and seemed rather dens than houses. Many were ragged and rotten, all inconceivably cheerless.
No outhouses, no inclosures, no vegetation, no relief of any kind. About and between them the
swardless ground is all trodden into mud. Prick-eared Esquimaux dogs huddle, sneak, bark, and
snarl around, with a free fight now and then, in which they all fall upon the one that is getting
the worst of it. Before the principal group of huts, in the open space between them and the
mansion, a dead dog lies rotting; children lounge listlessly, and babies toddle through the
slutch about it. Here and there a full-grown Esquimaux, in greasy and uncouth garb, loiters,
doing nothing, looking nothing.

I, for one, was completely overcrowed by the impression of a bare and aimless existence, and
could not even wonder. Christian Hopedale! "Leave all hope, ye that enter here!"

At 5 P. M. the chapel-bell rings, and at once the huts swarm. We follow the crowd. They enter
the chapel by a door at the end nearest their dens, and seat themselves, the women at the farther,
the men at the hither extreme, all facing a raised desk at the middle of one side. Behind them,
opposite this pulpit, is an organ. Presently, from a door at the farther end, the missionaries
file in, some twelve in number; one enters the pulpit, the others take seats on either side
of him, facing the audience, and at a dignified remove. The conductor of the service now rises,
makes an address in Esquimaux a minute and a half long, then gives out a hymn,--the hymns numbered
in German, as numbers, to any extent, are wanting to the Esquimaux language. All the congregation
join in a solid old German tune, keeping good time, and making, on the whole, better congregational
music than I ever heard elsewhere,--unless a Baptist conventicle in London, Bloomsbury Chapel,
furnish the exception. After this another, then another; at length, when half a dozen or more
have been sung, missionaries and congregation rise, the latter stand in mute and motionless
respect, the missionaries file out with dignity at their door; and when the last has disappeared,
the others begin quietly to disperse.

This form of worship is practised at the hour named above on each weekday, and the natives
attend with noticeable promptitude. There are no prayers, and the preliminary address in this
case was exceptional.

Sunday, July 31.--I had inquired at what hour the worship would begin this day, and, with some
hesitancy, had been answered, "At half past nine." But the Colonel also had asked, and his
interlocutor, after consulting a card, said, "At ten o'clock." At ten we went ashore. Finding
the chapel-door still locked, I seated myself on a rock in front of the mission-house, to wait.
The sun was warm (the first warm day for a month); the mosquitoes swarmed in myriads; I sat
there long, wearily beating them off. Faces peeped out at me from the windows, then withdrew.
Presently Bradford joined me, and began also to fight mosquitoes. More faces at the windows;
but when I looked towards them, thinking to discover some token of hospitable invitation, they
quickly disappeared. After half an hour, the master of the supply-ship came up, and entered
into conversation; in a minute one of the brethren appeared at the door, and invited him to
enter, but without noticing Bradford and myself. I took my skiff and rowed to the schooner.
Fifteen minutes later the chapel-bell rang.

I confess to some spleen that day against the missionaries. When I expressed it, Captain French,
the pilot, an old, prudent, pious man, "broke out."

"Them are traders," said he. "I don't call 'em missionaries; I call 'em traders. They live
in luxury; the natives work for 'em, and get for pay just what they choose to give 'em. They
fleece the Esquimaux; they take off of 'em all but the skin. They are just traders!"

My spleen did not last. There was some cause of coldness,--I know not what. The missionaries
afterwards became cordial, visited the schooner, and exchanged presents with us. I believe
them good men. If their relation to the natives assume in some degree a pecuniary aspect, it
is due to the necessity of supporting the mission by the profits of traffic. If they preserve
a stately distance toward the Esquimaux, it is to retain influence over them. If they allow
the native mind to confound somewhat the worship of God with the worship of its teachers, it
is that the native mind cannot get beyond personal relations, and must worship something tangible.
That they are not at all entangled in the routine and material necessities of their position
I do not assert; that they do not carry in it something of noble and self-forgetful duty nothing
I have seen will persuade me.

August 1.--We go to push our explorations among the Esquimaux, and invite the reader to make
one of the party. Enter a hut. The door is five feet high,--that is, the height of the wall.
Stoop a little,--ah, there goes a hat to the ground, and a hand to a hurt pate! One must move
carefully in these regions, which one hardly knows whether to call sub- or supra-terranean.

This door opens into a sort of porch occupying one end of the den; the floor, earth. Three
or four large, dirty dogs lie dozing here, and start up with an aspect of indescribable, half-crouching,
mean malignity, as we enter; but a sharp word, with perhaps some menace of stick or cane, sends
the cowardly brutes sneaking away. In a corner is a circle of stones, on which cooking is done;
and another day we may find the family here picking their food out of a pot, and serving themselves
to it, with the fingers. Save this primitive fireplace, and perhaps a kettle for the dogs to
lick clean, this porch is bare.

From this we crouch into the living-room through a door two and a half or three feet high,
and find ourselves in an apartment twelve feet square, and lighted by a small, square skin
window in the roof. The only noticeable furniture consists of two board beds, with skins for
bed-clothes. The women sit on these beds, sewing upon seal-skin boots. They receive us with
their characteristic fat and phlegmatic good-nature, a pleasant smile on their chubby cheeks
and in their dark, dull eyes,--making room for us on the bedside. Presently others come in,
mildly curious to see the strangers,--all with the same aspect of unthinking, good-tempered,
insensitive, animal content. The head is low and smooth; the cheekbones high, but less so than
those of American Indians; the jowl so broad and heavy as sometimes to give the ensemble of
head and face the outline of a cone truncated and rounded off above. In the females, however,
the cheek is so extremely plump as perfectly to pad these broad jaws, giving, instead of the
prize-fighter physiognomy, an aspect of smooth, gentle heaviness. Even without this fleshy
cheek, which is not noticeable, and is sometimes noticeably wanting, in the men, there is the
same look of heavy, well-tempered lameness. The girls have a rich blood color in their swarthy
cheeks, and some of them are really pretty, though always in a lumpish, domestic-animal style.
The hands and feet are singularly small; the fingers short, but nicely tapered. Take hold of
the hand, and you are struck with its cetacean feel. It is not flabby, but has a peculiar blubber-like,
elastic compressibility, and seems not quite of human warmth.

See them in their houses, and you see the horizon of their life. In these fat faces, with their
thoughtless content, in this pent-up, greasy, wooden den, the whole is told. The air is close
and fetid with animal exhalations. The entrails and part of the flesh of a seal, which lie
on the floor in a corner,--to furnish a dinner,--do not make the atmosphere nor the aspect
more agreeable. Yet you see that to them this is comfort, this is completeness of existence.
If they are hungry, they seek food. Food obtained, they return to eat and be comfortable until
they are again hungry. Their life has, on this earth at least, no farther outlook. It sallies,
it returns, but here is the fruition; for is not the seal-flesh dinner there, nicely and neatly
bestowed on the floor? Are they not warm? (The den is swelteringly hot.) Are they not fed?
What would one have more?

Yes, somewhat more, namely, tobacco,--and also second-hand clothes, with which to be fine in
church. For these they will barter seal-skins, dog-skins, seal-skin boots, a casual bear-skin,
bird-spears, walrus-spears, anything they have to vend,--concealing their traffic a little
from the missionaries. Colored glass beads were also in request among the women. Ph---- had
brought some large, well-made pocket-knives, which, being useful, he supposed would be desired.
Not at all; they were fumbled indifferently, then invariably declined. But a plug of tobacco,--ah,
that now is something!

The men wear tight seal-skin trousers and boots, with an upper garment of the same material,
made like a Guernsey frock. In winter a hood is added, but in summer they all go bareheaded,--the
stiff, black hair chopped squarely off across the low forehead, but longer behind. The costume
of the females is more peculiar,--seal-skin boots, seal-skin trousers, which just spring over
the hips, and are there met by a body-garment of seal-skin more lightly colored. Over this
goes an astonishing article of apparel somewhat resembling the dress-coat in which unhappy
civilization sometimes compels itself to masquerade, but--truth stranger than fiction!--considerably
more ugly. A long tail hangs down to the very heels; a much shorter peak comes down in front;
at the sides it is scooped out below, showing a small portion of the light-colored body-garment,
which irresistibly suggests a very dirty article of lady-linen whereon the eyes of civilized
decorum forbear to look, while an adventurous imagination associates it only with snowy whiteness.
The whole is surmounted by an enormous peaked hood, in which now and then one sees a baby carried.

This elegant garment was evidently copied from the skin of an animal,--so Ph---- acutely suggested.
The high peak of the hood represents the ears; the arms stand for the fore legs; the downward
peak in front for the hind legs sewed together; the rear dangler represents the tail. I make
no doubt that our dress-coat has the same origin, though the primal conception has been more
modified. It is a bear-skin plus Paris.

Is the reader sure of his ribs and waistcoat-buttons? If so, he may venture to look upon an
Esquimaux woman walking,--which I take to be the most ludicrous spectacle in the world. Conceive
of this short, squat, chunky, lumpish figure in the costume described,--grease ad libitum being
added. The form is so plump and heavy as very much to project the rear dangler at the point
where it leaves the body, while below it falls in, and goes with a continual muddy slap, slap,
against the heels. The effect of this, especially in the profile view, is wickedly laughable,
but the gait makes it more so. The walk is singularly slow, unelastic, loggy, and is characterized
at each step by an indescribable, sudden sag or slump at the hip. As she thus slowly and heavily
churns herself along, the nether slap emphasizes each step, as it were, with an exclamation-point;
while, as the foot advances, the shoulder and the whole body on the same side turn and sag
forward, the opposite shoulder and side dragging back,--as if there were a perpetual debate
between the two sides whether to proceed or not. It was so laughable that it made one sad;
for this, too, was a human being. The gait of the men, on the contrary, is free and not ungraceful.

August 3.--An Esquimaux wedding! In the chapel,--Moravian ceremony,--so far not noticeable.
Costume same as above, only of white cloth heavily embroidered with red. Demeanor perfect.
Bride obliged to sit down midway in the ceremony, overpowered with emotion. She did so with
a simple, quiet dignity, that would not have misbecome a duchess.

When the ceremony was ended, the married pair retired into the mission-house, and half an hour
later I saw them going home. This was the curious part of the affair. The husband walked before,
taking care not to look behind, doing the indifferent and unconscious with great assiduity,
and evidently making it a matter of serious etiquette not to know that any one followed. Four
rods behind comes the wife, doing the unconscious with equal industry. She is not following
this man here in front,--bless us, no, indeed!--but is simply walking out, or going to see
a neighbor, this nice afternoon, and does not observe that any one precedes her. Following
that man? Pray, where were you reared, that you are capable of so discourteous a supposition?
It gave me a malicious pleasure to see that the pre-Adamite man, as well as the rest of us,
imposes upon himself at times these difficult duties, toting about that foolish face, so laboriously
vacant of precisely that with which it is brimming full.

To adjust himself to outward Nature,--that, we said, is the sole task of the primitive man.
The grand success of the Esquimaux in this direction is the kayak. This is his victory and
his school. It is a seal-skin Oxford or Cambridge, wherein he takes his degree as master of
the primeval arts. Here he acquires not only physical strength and quickness, but self-possession
also, mental agility, the instant use of his wits,--here becomes, in fine, a cultivated man.

It is no trifling matter. Years upon years must be devoted to these studies. Oxford and Cambridge
do not task one more, nor exhibit more degrees of success. Some fail, and never graduate; some
become illustrious for kayak-erudition.

This culture has also the merit of entire seriousness and sincerity. Life and death, not merely
a name in the newspapers, are in it. Of all vehicles, on land or sea, to which man intrusts
himself, the kayak is safest and unsafest. It is a very hair-bridge of Mohammed: security or
destruction is in the finest poise of a moving body, the turn of a hand, the thought of a moment.
Every time that the Esquimaux spears a seal at sea, he pledges his life upon his skill. With
a touch, with a moment's loss of balance, the tipsy craft may go over; over, the oar, with
which it is to be restored, may get entangled, may escape from the hand, may--what not? For
all what-nots the kayaker must preserve instant preparation; and with his own life on the tip
of his fingers, he must make its preservation an incidental matter. He is there, not to save
his life, but to capture a seal, worth a few dollars! It is his routine work. Different from
getting up a leading article, making a plea in court, or writing Greek iambics for a bishopric!

Probably there is no race of men on earth whose ordinary avocations present so constantly the
alternative of rarest skill on the one hand, or instant destruction on the other. And for these
avocations one is fitted only by a scholarship, which it requires prolonged schooling, the
most patient industry, and the most delicate consent of mind and body to attain. If among us
the highest university-education were necessary, in order that one might live, marry, and become
a householder, we should but parallel in our degree the scheme of their life.

Measured by post-Adamite standards, the life of the Esquimaux is a sorry affair; measured by
his own standards, it is a piece of perfection. To see the virtue of his existence, you must,
as it were, look at him with the eyes of a wolf or fox,--must look up from that low level,
and discern, so far above, this skilled and wondrous creature, who by ingenuity and self-schooling
has converted his helplessness into power, and made himself the plume and crown of the physical
world.

In the kayak the Esquimaux attains to beauty. As he rows, the extremes of the two-bladed oar
revolve, describing rhythmic circles; the body holds itself in airy poise, and the light boat
skims away with a look of life. The speed is greater than our swiftest boats attain, and the
motion graceful as that of a flying bird. Kayak and rower become to the eye one creature; and
the civilized spectator must be stronger than I in his own conceit not to feel a little humble
as he looks on.

We had racing one calm evening. Three kayaks competed: the prize--O Civilization!--was a plug
of tobacco. How the muscles swelled! How the airy things flew! "Hi! Hi!" jockey the lookers-on:
they fly swifter still. Up goes another plug,--another!--another!--and the kayaks half leap
from the water. It was sad withal.

The racing over, there was a new feat. One of the kayakers placed himself in his little craft
directly across the course; another stationed himself at a distance, and then, pushing his
kayak forward at his utmost speed, drove it directly over the other! The high sloping bow rose
above the middle of the stationary kayak on which it impinged, and, shooting up quite out of
water, the boat skimmed over.

The Esquimaux is an honest creature. I had engaged a woman to make me a pair of fur boots,
leaving my name on a slip of paper. L----, next day, roaming among the huts, saw her hanging
them out to dry. Enamored of them, and ignorant of our bargain, he sought to purchase them;
but at the first token of his desire, the woman rushed into the hut, and brought forth the
slip of paper, as a sufficient answer to all question on that matter. L---- having told me
of the incident, and informed me that he had elsewhere bargained for a similar pair, I was
wicked enough to experiment upon this fidelity, desirous of learning what I could. Taking,
therefore, some clothes, which I knew would be desired, and among them a white silk handkerchief
bordered with blue, which had been purchased at Port Mulgrave, all together far exceeding in
value the stipulated price, I sought the hut, and began admiring the said boots, now nearly
finished. Instantly came forth the inevitable slip with L----'s name upon it. Making no sign,
I proceeded to unroll my package. The good creature was intensely taken with its contents,
and gloated over them with childish delight. But though she rummaged every corner to find somewhat
to exchange with me for them, it evidently did not even enter her thoughts to offer me the
boots. I took them up and admired them again; she immediately laid her hand on the slip of
paper. So I gave her the prettiest thing I had, and left with a cordial okshni (good-bye).

This honesty is attributed to missionary instruction, and with the more color as the untaught
race is noted for stealing from Europeans everything they can lay hands on. It is only, however,
from foreigners that they were ever accustomed to steal. Toward each other they have ever been
among the most honest of human beings. Civilization and the seal they regarded as alike lawful
prey. The missionaries have not implanted in them a new disposition, but only extended the
scope of an old and marked characteristic.

At the same time their sense of pecuniary obligation would seem not to extend over long periods.
Of the missionaries in winter they buy supplies on credit, but show little remembrance of the
debt when summer comes. All must be immediate with them; neither their thought nor their moral
sense can carry far; they are equally improvident for the future and forgetful of the past.
The mere Nature-man acts only as Nature and her necessities press upon him; thought and memory
are with him the offspring of sensation; his brain is but the feminine spouse of his stomach
and blood,--receptive and respondent, rather than virile and original.

Partly, however, this seeming forgetfulness is susceptible of a different explanation. They
evidently feel that the mission-house owes them a living. They make gardens, go to church and
save their souls, for the missionaries; it is but fair that they should be fed at a pinch in
return.

This remark may seem a sneer. Not so; my word for it. I went to Hopedale to study this race,
with no wish but to find in them capabilities of spiritual growth, and with no resolve but
to see the fact, whatever it should be, not with wishes, but with eyes. And, pointedly against
my desire, I saw this,--that the religion of the Esquimaux is, nine parts in ten at least,
a matter of personal relation between him and the missionaries. He goes to church as the dog
follows his master,--expecting a bone and hoping for a pat in return. He comes promptly at
a whistle (the chapel-bell); his docility and decorum are unimpeachable; he does what is expected
of him with a pleased wag of the tail; but it is still, it is always, the dog and his master.

The pre-Adamite man is not distinctively religious; for religion implies ideas, in the blood
at least, if not in the brain, as imagination, if not as thought; and ideas are to him wanting,
are impossible. His whole being is summed and concluded in a relationship to the external,
the tangible, to things or persons; and his relation to persons goes beyond animal instinct
and the sense of physical want only upon the condition that it shall cling inseparably to them.
The spiritual instincts of humanity are in him also, but obscure, utterly obscure, not having
attained to a circulation in the blood, much less to intellectual liberation. Obscure they
are, fixed, in the bone, locked up in phosphate of lime. Ideas touch them only as ideas lose
their own shape and hide themselves under physical forms.

Will he outgrow himself? Will he become post-Adamite, a man to whom ideas are realities? I
desire to say yes, and cannot. Again and again, in chapel and elsewhere, I stood before a group,
and questioned, questioned their faces, to find there some prophecy of future growth. And again
and again these faces, with their heavy content, with their dog-docility, with their expression
of utter limitation, against which nothing in them struggled, said to me,--"Your quest is vain;
we are once and forever Esquimaux." Had they been happy, had they been unhappy, I had hoped
for them. They were neither: they were contented. A half-animal, African exuberance, token
of a spirit obscure indeed, but rich and effervescent, would open for them a future. One sign
of dim inward struggle and pain, as if the spirit resented his imprisonment, would do the same.
Both were wanting. They ruminate; life is the cud they chew.

The Esquimaux are celebrated as gluttons. This, however, is but one half the fact. They can
eat, they can also fast, indefinitely. For a week they gorge themselves without exercise, and
have no indigestion; for a week, exercising vigorously, they live on air, frozen air, too,
and experience no exhaustion. Last winter half a dozen appeared at Square-Island Harbor, sent
out their trained dogs, drove in a herd of deer, and killed thirteen. They immediately encamped,
gathered fuel, made fires, began to cook and eat,--ate themselves asleep; then waked to cook,
eat, and sleep again, until the thirteenth deer had vanished. Thereupon they decamped, to travel
probably hundreds of miles, and endure days on days of severe labor, before tasting, or more
than tasting, food again.

The same explanation serves. These physical capabilities, not to be attained by the post-Adamite
man, belong to the primitive races, as to hawks, gulls, and beasts of prey. The stomach of
the Esquimaux is his cellar, as that of the camel is a cistern, wherein he lays up stores.

August 4.--This day we sailed away from Hopedale, heading homeward,--leaving behind a race
of men who were, to me a problem to be solved, if possible. All my impressions of them are
summed in the epithet, often repeated, pre-Adamite. In applying, this, I affirm nothing respecting
their physical origin. All that is to me an open question, to be closed when I have more light
than now. It may be, that, as Mr. Agassiz maintains, they were created originally just as they
are. For this hypothesis much may be said, and it may be freely confessed that in observing
them I felt myself pressed somewhat toward the acceptance of it as a definite conclusion. It
may be that they have become what they are by slow modification of a type common to all races,--that,
with another parentage, they have been made by adoption children of the icy North, whose breath
has chilled in their souls the deeper powers of man's being. This it will be impossible for
me to deny until I have investigated more deeply the influence of physical Nature upon man,
and learned more precisely to what degree the traditions of a people, constituting at length
a definite social atmosphere, may come to penetrate and shape their individual being. I do
not pronounce; I wait and keep the eyes open. Doubtless they are God's children; and knowing
this, one need not be fretfully impatient, even though vigilantly earnest, to know the rest.

In naming them pre-Adamite I mean two things.

First, that they have stopped short of ideas, that is, of the point where human history begins.
They belong, not to spiritual or human, but to outward and physical Nature. There they are
a great success.

Secondly, in this condition of mere response to physical Nature, their whole being has become
shapen, determined, fixed. They have no future. Civilization affects them, but only by mechanical
modification, not by vital refreshment and renewal. The more they are instructed, the weaker
they become.

They change, and are unchangeable.

Unchangeable: if they assume in any degree the ideas and habits of civilization, it is only
as their women sometimes put on calico gowns over their seal-skin trousers. The modification
is not even skin-deep. It is a curious illustration of this immobility, that no persuasion,
no authority, can make them fishermen. Inseparable from the sea-shore, the Esquimaux will not
catch a fish, if he can catch a dinner otherwise. The missionaries, both as matter of paternal
care and as a means of increasing their own traffic,--by which the station is chiefly sustained,--have
done their utmost to make the natives bring in fish for sale, and have failed. These people
are first sealers, then hunters; some attraction in the blood draws them to these occupations;
and at last it is an attraction in the blood which they obey.

Yet on the outermost surface of their existence they change, and die. At Hopedale, out of a
population of some two hundred, twenty-four died in the month of March last! At Nain, where
the number of inhabitants is about the same, twenty-one died in the same month; at Okkak, also
twenty-one. More than decimated in a month!

The long winter suffocation in their wooden dens, which lack the ventilation of the igloe that
their untaught wit had devised, has doubtless much to do with this mortality. But one feels
that there is somewhat deeper in the case. One feels that the hands of the great horologe of
time have hunted around the dial, till they have found the hour of doom for this primeval race.
Now at length the tolling bell says to them, "No more! on the earth no more!"

Farewell, geological man, chef-d'oeuvre, it may be, of some earlier epoch, but in this a grotesque,
grown-up baby, never to become adult! As you are, and as in this world you must be, I have
seen you; but in my heart is a hope for you which is greater than my thought,--a hope which,
though deep and sure, does not define itself to the understanding, and must remain unspoken.
There is a Heart to which you, too, are dear; and its throbs are pulsations of Destiny.

DOCTOR JOHNS.

XI.

There were scores of people in Ashfield who would have been delighted to speak consolation
to the bereaved clergyman; but he was not a man to be approached easily with the ordinary phrases
of sympathy. He bore himself too sternly under his grief. What, indeed, can be said in the
face of affliction, where the manner of the sufferer seems to say, "God has done it, and God
does all things well"? Ordinary human sympathy falls below such a standpoint, and is wasted
in the utterance.

Yet there are those, who delight in breaking in upon the serene dignity which this condition
of mind implies with a noisy proffer of consolation, and an aggravating rehearsal of the occasion
for it; as if such comforters entertained a certain jealousy of the serenity they do not comprehend,
and were determined to test its sufficiency. Dame Tourtelot was eminently such a person.

"It's a dreadful blow to ye, Mr. Johns," said she, "I know it is. Almiry is a'most as much
took down by it as you are. 'She was such a lovely woman,' she says; and the poor, dear little
boy,--won't you let him come and pass a day or two with us? Almiry is very fond of children."

"Later, later, my good woman," says the parson. "I can't spare the boy now; the house is too
empty."

"Oh, Mr. Johns,--the poor lonely thing!" (And she says this, with her hands in black mits,
clasped together.) "It's a bitter blow! As I was a-sayin' to the Deacon, 'Such a lovely young
woman, and such a good comfortable home, and she, poor thing, enjoyin' it so much!' I do hope
you'll bear up under it, Mr. Johns."

"By God's help, I will, my good woman."

Dame Tourtelot was disappointed to find the parson wincing so little as he did under her stimulative
sympathy. On returning home, she opened her views to the Deacon in this style:--

"Tourtelot, the parson is not so much broke down by this as we've been thinkin'; he was as
cool, when I spoke to him to-day, as any man I ever see in my life. The truth is, she was a
flighty young person, noways equal to the parson. I've been a-suspectin' it this long while;
she never, in my opinion, took a real hard hold upon him. But, Tourtelot, you should go and
see Mr. Johns; and I hope you'll talk consolingly and Scripterally to him. It's your duty."

And hereupon she shifted the needles in her knitting, and, smoothing down the big blue stocking-leg
over her knee, cast a glance at the Deacon which signified command. The dame was thoroughly
mistress in her own household, as well as in the households of not a few of her neighbors.
Long before, the meek, mild-mannered little man who was her husband had by her active and resolute
negotiation been made a deacon of the parish,--for which office he was not indeed ill-fitted,
being religiously disposed, strict in his observance of all duties, and well-grounded in the
Larger Catechism. He had, moreover, certain secular endowments which were even more marked,--among
them, a wonderful instinct at a bargain, which had been polished by Dame Tourtelot's superior
address to a wonderful degree of sharpness; and by reason of this the less respectful of the
townspeople were accustomed to say, "The Deacon is very small at home, but great in a trade."
Not that the Deacon could by any means be called an avaricious or miserly man: he had always
his old Spanish milled quarter ready for the contribution-box upon Collection-Sundays; and
no man in the parish brought a heavier turkey to the parson's larder on donation-days: but
he could no more resist the sharpening of a bargain than he could resist a command of his wife.
He talked of a good trade to the old heads up and down the village street as a lad talks of
a new toy.

"Squire," he would say, addressing a neighbor on the Common, "what do you s'pose I paid for
that brindle ye'rlin' o' mine? Give us a guess."

"Waäl, Deacon, I guess you paid about ten dollars."

"Only eight!" the Deacon would say, with a smile that was fairly luminous,--"and a pootty likely
critter I call it for eight dollars."

"Five hogs this year," (in this way the Deacon was used to soliloquize,)--"I hope to make 'em
three hundred apiece. The price works up about Christmas: Deacon Simmons has sold his'n at
five,--distillery-pork; that's sleezy, wastes in bilin'; folks know it: mine, bein' corn-fed,
ought to bring half a cent more,--and say, for Christmas, six; that'll give a gain of a cent,--on
five hogs, at three hundred apiece, will be fifteen dollars. That'll pay half my pew-rent,
and leave somethin' over for Almiry, who's always wantin' fresh ribbons about New-Year's."

The Deacon cherished a strong dread of formal visits to the parsonage: first, because it involved
his Sunday toilet, in which he was never easy, except at conference or in his pew at the meeting-house;
and next, because he counted it necessary on such occasions to give a Scriptural garnish to
his talk, in which attempt he almost always, under the authoritative look of the parson, blundered
into difficulty. Yet Tourtelot, in obedience to his wife's suggestion, and primed with a text
from Matthew, undertook the visit of condolence,--and, being a really kind-hearted man, bore
himself well in it. Over and over the good parson shook his hand in thanks.

"It'll all be right," says the Deacon. "'Blessed are the mourners,' is the Scripteral language,
'for they shall inherit the earth.'"

"No, not that, Deacon," says the minister, to whom a misquotation was like a wound in the flesh;
"the last thing I want is to inherit the earth. 'They shall be comforted,'--that's the promise,
Deacon, and I count on it."

It was mortifying to his visitor to be caught napping on so familiar a text; the parson saw
it, and spoke consolingly. But if not strong in texts, the Deacon knew what his strong points
were; so, before leaving, he invites a little offhand discussion of more familiar topics.

"Pootty tight spell o' weather we've been havin', Parson."

"Rather cool, certainly," says the unsuspecting clergyman.

"Got all your winter's stock o' wood in yit?"

"No, I haven't," says the parson.

"Waäl, Mr. Johns, I've got a lot of pastur'-hickory cut and corded, that's well seared over
now,--and if you'd like some of it, I can let you have it very reasonable indeed."

The sympathy of the Elderkins, if less formal, was none the less hearty. The Squire had been
largely instrumental in securing the settlement of Mr. Johns, and had been a political friend
of his father's. In early life he had been engaged in the West India trade from the neighboring
port of Middletown; and on one or two occasions he had himself made the voyage to Porto Rico,
taking out a cargo of horses, and bringing back sugar, molasses, and rum. But it was remarked
approvingly in the bar-room of the Eagle Tavern that this foreign travel had not made the Squire
proud,--nor yet the moderate fortune which he had secured by the business, in which he was
still understood to bear an interest. His paternal home in Ashfield he had fitted up some years
before with balustrade and other architectural adornments, which, it was averred by the learned
in those matters, were copied from certain palatial residences in the West Indies.

The Squire united eminently in himself all those qualities which a Connecticut observer of
those times expressed by the words, "right down smart man." Not a turnpike enterprise could
be started in that quarter of the State, but the Squire was enlisted, and as shareholder or
director contributed to its execution. A clear-headed, kindly, energetic man, never idle, prone
rather to do needless things than to do nothing; an ardent disciple of the Jeffersonian school,
and in this combating many of those who relied most upon his sagacity in matters of business;
a man, in short, about whom it was always asked, in regard to any question of town or State
policy, "What does the Squire think?" or "How does the Squire mean to vote?" And the Squire's
opinion was sure to be a round, hearty one, which he came by honestly, and about which one
who thought differently might safely rally his columns of attack. The opinion of Giles Elderkin
was not inquired into for the sake of a tame following-after,--that was not the Connecticut
mode,--but for the sake of discussing and toying with it: very much as a sly old grimalkin
toys with a mouse,--now seeming to entertain it kindly, then giving it a run, then leaping
after it, crunching a limb of it, bearing it off into some private corner, giving it a new
escape, swallowing it perhaps at last, and appropriating it by long process of digestion. And
even then, the shrewd Connecticut man, if accused of modulating his own opinions after those
of the Squire, would say, "No, I allers thought so."

Such a man as Giles Elderkin is of course ready with a hearty, outspoken word of cheer for
his minister. Nay, the very religion of the Squire, which the parson had looked upon as somewhat
discursive and human,--giving too large a place to good works,--was decisive and to the point
in the present emergency.

"It's God's doing," said he; "we must take the cup He gives us. For the best, isn't it, Parson?"

"I do, Squire. Thank God, I can."

There was good Mrs. Elderkin--who made up by her devotion to the special tenets of the clergyman
many of the shortcomings of the Squire--insisted upon sending for the poor boy Reuben, that
he might forget his grief in her kindness, and in frolic with the Elderkins through that famous
garden, with its huge hedges of box,--such a garden as was certainly not to be matched elsewhere
in Ashfield. The same good woman, too, sends down a wagon-load of substantial things from her
larder, for the present relief of the stricken household; to which the Squire has added a little
round jug of choice Santa Cruz rum,--remembering the long watches of the parson. This may shock
us now; and yet it is to be feared that in our day the sin of hypocrisy is to be added to the
sin of indulgence: the old people nestled under no cover of liver specifics or bitters. Reform
has made a grand march indeed; but the Devil, with his square bottles and Scheidam schnapps,
has kept a pretty even pace with it.

XII.

The boy Reuben, in those first weeks after his loss, wandered about as if in a maze, wondering
at the great blank that death had made; or, warming himself at some out-door sport, he rushed
in with a pleasant forgetfulness,--shouting,--up the stairs,--to the accustomed door, and bursts
in upon the cold chamber, so long closed, where the bitter knowledge comes upon him fresh once
more. Esther, good soul that she is, has heard his clatter upon, the floor, his bound at the
old latch, and, fancying what it may mean, has come up in time to soothe him and bear him off
with her. The parson, forging some sermon for the next Sabbath, in the room at the foot of
the stairs, hears, may-be, the stifled sobbing of the boy, as the good Esther half leads and
half drags him down, and opens his door upon them.

"What now, Esther? Has Reuben caught a fall?"

"No, Sir, no fall; he's not harmed, Sir. It's only the old room, you know, Sir, and he quite
forgot himself."

"Poor boy! Will he come with me, Esther?"

"No, Mr. Johns. I'll find something'll amuse him; hey, Ruby?"

And the parson goes back to his desk, where he forgets himself in the glow of that great work
of his. He has taught, as never before, that "all flesh is grass." He accepts his loss as a
punishment for having thought too much and fondly of the blessings of this life; henceforth
the flesh and its affections shall be mortified in him. He has transferred his bed to a little
chamber which opens from his study in the rear, and which is at the end of the long dining-room,
where every morning and evening the prayers are said, as before. The parishioners see a light
burning in the window of his study far into the night.

For a time his sermons are more emotional than before. Oftener than in the earlier days of
his settlement he indulges in a forecast of those courts toward which he would conduct his
people, and which a merciful God has provided for those who trust in Him; and there is a coloring
in these pictures which his sermons never showed in the years gone.

"We ask ourselves," said he, "my brethren, if we shall knowingly meet there--where we trust
His grace may give us entrance--those from whom you and I have parted; whether a fond and joyous
welcome shall greet us, not alone from Him whom to love is life, but from those dear ones who
seem to our poor senses to be resting under the sod yonder. Sometimes I believe that by God's
great goodness," (and here he looked, not at his people, but above, and kept his eye fixed
there)--"I believe that we shall; that His great love shall so delight in making complete our
happiness, even by such little memorials of our earthly affections (which must seem like waifs
of thistle-down beside the great harvest of His abounding grace); that all the dear faces of
those written in the Golden Book shall beam a welcome, all the more bounteous because reflecting
His joy who has died to save."

And the listeners whispered each other as he paused, "He thinks of Rachel."

With his eyes still fixed above, he goes on,--

"Sometimes I think thus; but oftener I ask myself, 'Of what value shall human ties be, or their
memories, in His august presence whom to look upon is life? What room shall there be for other
affections, what room for other memories, than those of 'the Lamb that was slain'?

"Nay, my brethren," (and here he turns his eyes upon them again,) "we do know in our hearts
that many whom we have loved fondly--infants, fathers, mothers, wives, may-be--shall never,
never sit with the elect in Paradise; and shall we remember these in heaven, going away to
dwell with the Devil and his angels? Shall we be tortured with the knowledge that some poor
babe we looked upon only for an hour is wearing out ages of suffering? 'No,' you may say, 'for
we shall be possessed in that day of such sense of the ineffable justice of God, and of His
judgments, that all shall seem right.' Yet, my brethren, if this sense of His supreme justice
shall overrule all the old longings of our hearts, even to the suppression of the dearest ties
of earth, where they conflict with His ordained purpose, will they not also overrule all the
longings in respect of friends who are among the elect, in such sort that the man we counted
our enemy, the man we avoided on earth, if so be he have an inheritance in heaven, shall be
met with the same yearning of the heart as if he were our brother? Does this sound harshly,
my brethren? Ah, let us beware,--let us beware how we entertain any opinions of that future
condition of holiness and of joy promised to the elect, which are dependent upon these gross
attachments of earth, which are colored by our short-sighted views, which are not in every
iota accordant with the universal love of Him who is our Master!"

"This man lives above the world," said the people; and if some of them did not give very cordial
assent to these latter views, they smothered their dissent by a lofty expression of admiration;
they felt it a duty to give them open acceptance, to venerate the speaker the more by reason
of their utterance. And yet their limited acceptance diffused a certain chill, very likely,
over their religious meditations. But it was a chill which unfortunately they counted it good
to entertain,--a rigor of faith that must needs be borne. It is doubtful, indeed, if they did
not make a merit of their placid intellectual admission of such beliefs as most violated the
natural sensibilities of the heart. They were so sure that affectionate instincts were by nature
wrong in their tendencies, so eager to cumulate evidences of the original depravity, that,
when their parson propounded a theory that gave a shock to their natural affections, they submitted
with a kind of heroic pride, however much their hearts might make silent protest, and the grounds
of such a protest they felt a cringing unwillingness to investigate. There was a determined
shackling of all the passional nature. What wonder that religion took a harsh aspect? As if
intellectual adhesion to theological formulas were to pave our way to a knowledge of the Infinite!--as
if our sensibilities were to be outraged in the march to Heaven!--as if all the emotional nature
were to be clipped away by the shears of the doctors, leaving only the metaphysic ghost of
a soul to enter upon the joys of Paradise!

Within eight months after his loss, Mr. Johns thought of Rachel only as a gift that God had
bestowed to try him, and had taken away to work in him a humiliation of the heart. More severely
than ever he wrestled with the dogmas of his chosen divines, harnessed them to his purposes
as preacher, and wrought on with a zeal that knew no abatement and no rest.

In the spring of 1825 Mr. Johns was invited by Governor Wolcott to preach the Election Sermon
before the Legislature convened at Hartford: an honorable duty, and one which he was abundantly
competent to fulfil. The "Hartford Courant" of that date said,--"A large auditory was collected
last week to listen to the Election Sermon by Mr. Johns, minister of Ashfield. It was a sound,
orthodox, and interesting discourse, and won the undivided attention of all the listeners.
We have not recently listened to a sermon more able or eloquent."

In that day even country editors were church-goers and God-fearing men.

XIII.

In the latter part of the summer of 1826,--a reasonable time having now elapsed since the death
of poor Rachel,--the gossips of Ashfield began to discuss the lonely condition of their pastor,
in connection with any desirable or feasible amendment of it. The sin of such gossip--if it
be a sin--is one that all the preaching in the world will never extirpate from country towns,
where the range of talk is by the necessity of the case exceedingly limited. In the city, curiosity
has an omnivorous maw by reason of position, and finds such variety to feed upon that it is
rarely--except in the case of great political or public scandal--personal in its attentions;
and what we too freely reckon a perverted and impertinent country taste is but an ordinary
appetite of humanity, which, by the limitation of its feeding-ground, seems to attach itself
perversely to private relations.

There were some invidious persons in the town who had remarked that Miss Almira Tourtelot had
brought quite a new fervor to her devotional exercises in the parish within the last year,
as well as a new set of ribbons to her hat; and two maiden ladies opposite, of distinguished
pretensions and long experience of life, had observed that the young Reuben, on his passage
back and forth from the Elderkins, had sometimes been decoyed within the Tourtelot yard, and
presented by the admiring Dame Tourtelot with fresh doughnuts. The elderly maiden ladies were
perhaps uncharitable in their conclusions; yet it is altogether probable that the Deacon and
his wife may have considered, in the intimacy of their fireside talk, the possibility of some
time claiming the minister as a son-in-law. Questions like this are discussed in a great many
families even now.

Dame Tourtelot had crowned with success all her schemes in life, save one. Almira, her daughter,
now verging upon her thirty-second year, had long been upon the anxious-seat as regarded matrimony;
and with a sentimental turn that incited much reading of Cowper and Montgomery and (if it must
be told) "Thaddeus of Warsaw," the poor girl united a sickly, in-door look, and a peaked countenance,
which had not attracted wooers. The wonderful executive capacity of the mother had unfortunately
debarred her from any active interest in the household; and though the Tourtelots had actually
been at the expense of providing a piano for Almira, (the only one in Ashfield,)--upon which
the poor girl thrummed, thinking of "Thaddeus," and, we trust, of better things,--this had
not won a roseate hue to her face, or quickened in any perceptible degree the alacrity of her
admirers.

Upon a certain night of later October, after Almira has retired, and when the Tourtelots are
seated by the little fire, which the autumn chills have rendered necessary, and into the embers
of which the Deacon has cautiously thrust the leg of one of the fire-dogs, preparatory to a
modest mug of flip, (with which, by his wife's permission, he occasionally indulges himself,)
the good dame calls out to her husband, who is dozing in his chair,--

"Tourtelot!"

But she is not loud enough.

"TOURTELOT! you're asleep!"

"No," says the Deacon, rousing himself,--"only thinkin'."

"What are you thinkin' of, Tourtelot?"

"Thinkin'--thinkin'," says the Deacon, rasped by the dame's sharpness into sudden mental effort,--"thinkin',
Huldy, if it isn't about time to butcher: we butchered last year nigh upon the twentieth."

"Nonsense!" says the dame; "what about the parson?"

"The parson? Oh! Why, the parson'll take a side and two hams."

"Nonsense!" says the dame, with a great voice; "you're asleep, Tourtelot. Is the parson goin'
to marry, or isn't he? that's what I want to know"; and she rethreads her needle.

(She can do it by candle-light at fifty-five, that woman!)

"Oh, marry!" replies the Deacon, rousing himself more thoroughly,--"waäl, I don't see no signs,
Huldy. If he doos mean to, he's sly about it; don't you think so, Huldy?"

The dame, who is intent upon her sewing again,--she is never without her work, that woman!--does
not deign a reply.

The Deacon, after lifting the fire-dog, blowing off the ashes, and holding it to his face to
try the heat, says,--

"I guess Almiry ha'n't much of a chance."

"What's the use of your guessin'?" says the dame; "better mind your flip."

Which the Deacon accordingly does, stirring it in a mild manner, until the dame breaks out
upon him again explosively:--

"Tourtelot, you men of the parish ought to talk to the parson; it a'n't right for things to
go on this way. That boy Reuben is growin' up wild; he wants a woman in the house to look arter
him. Besides, a minister ought to have a wife; it a'n't decent to have the house empty, and
only Esther there. Women want to feel they can drop in at the parsonage for a chat, or to take
tea. But who's to serve tea, I want to know? Who's to mind Reuben in meetin'? He broke the
cover off the best hymn-book in the parson's pew last Sunday. Who's to prevent him a-breakin'
all the hymn-books that belong to the parish? You men ought to speak to the parson; and, Tourtelot,
if the others won't do it, you must."

The Deacon was fairly awake now. He pulled at his whiskers deprecatingly. Yet he clearly foresaw
that the emergency was one to be met; the manner of Dame Tourtelot left no room for doubt;
and he was casting about for such Scriptural injunctions as might be made available, when the
dame interrupted his reflections in more amiable humor,--

"It isn't Almiry, Samuel, I think of, but Mr. Johns and the good of the parish. I really don't
know if Almiry would fancy the parson; the girl is a good deal taken up with her pianny and
books; but there's the Hapgoods, opposite; there's Joanny Meacham"----

"You'll never make that do, Huldy," said the Deacon, stirring his flip composedly; "they're
nigh on as old as parson."

"Never you mind, Tourtelot," said the dame, sharply; "only you hint to the parson that they're
good, pious women, all of them, and would make proper ministers' wives. Do you think I don't
know what a man is, Tourtelot? Humph!" And she threads her needle again.

The Deacon was apt to keep in mind his wife's advices, whatever he might do with Scripture
quotations. So when he called at the parsonage, a few days after,--ostensibly to learn how
the minister would like his pork cut,--it happened that little Reuben came bounding in, and
that the Deacon gave him a fatherly pat upon the shoulder.

"Likely boy you've got here, Mr. Johns,--likely boy. But, Parson, don't you think he must feel
a kind o' hankerin' arter somebody to be motherly to him? I 'most wonder that you don't feel
that way yourself, Mr. Johns."

"God comforts the mourners," said the clergyman, seriously.

"No doubt, no doubt, Parson; but He sometimes provides comforts ag'in which we shet our eyes.
You won't think hard o' me, Parson, but I've heerd say about the village that Miss Meacham
or one of the Miss Hapgoods would make an excellent wife for the minister."

The parson is suddenly very grave.

"Don't repeat such idle gossip, Deacon. I'm married to my work. The Gospel is my bride now."

"And a very good one it is, Parson. But don't you think that a godly woman for helpmeet would
make the work more effectooal? Miss Meacham is a pattern of a person in the Sunday school.
The women of the parish would rather like to find the doors of the parsonage openin' for 'em
ag'in."

"That is to be thought of certainly," said the minister, musingly.

"You won't think hard o' me, Mr. Johns, for droppin' a word about this matter?" says the Deacon,
rising to leave. "And while I think on 't, Parson, I see the sill under the no'theast corner
o' the meetin'-house has a little settle to it. I've jest been cuttin' a few sticks o' good
smart chestnut timber; and if the Committee thinks best, I could haul down one or two on 'em
for repairs. It won't cost nigh as much as pine lumber, and it's every bit as good."

Even Dame Tourtelot would have been satisfied with the politic way of the Deacon, both as regarded
the wife and the prospective bargain. The next evening the good woman invited the clergyman--begging
him "not to forget the dear little boy"--to tea.

This was by no means the first hint which the minister had had of the tendency of village gossip.
The Tew partners, with whom he had fallen upon very easy terms of familiarity,--both by reason
of frequent visits at their little shop, and by reason of their steady attendance upon his
ministrations,--often dropped hints of the smallness of the good man's grocery account, and
insidious hopes that it might be doubled in size at some day not far off.

Squire Elderkin, too, in his bluff, hearty way, had occasionally complimented the clergyman
upon the increased attendance latterly of ladies of a certain age, and had drawn his attention
particularly to the ardent zeal of a buxom, middle-aged widow, who lived upon the skirts of
the town, and was "the owner," he said, "of as pretty a piece of property as lay in the county."

"Have you any knack at farming, Mr. Johns?" continued he, playfully.

"Farming? why?" says the innocent parson, in a maze.

"Because I am of opinion, Mr. Johns, that the widow's little property might be rented by you,
under conditions of joint occupancy, on very easy terms."

Such badinage was so warded off by the ponderous gravity which the parson habitually wore,
that men like Elderkin loved occasionally to launch a quiet joke at him, for the pleasure of
watching the rebound.

When, however, the wide-spread gossip of the town had taken the shape (as in the talk of Deacon
Tourtelot) of an incentive to duty, the grave clergyman gave to it his undivided and prayerful
attention. It was over-true that the boy Reuben was running wild. No lad in Ashfield, of his
years, could match him in mischief. There was surely need of womanly direction and remonstrance.
It was eminently proper, too, that the parsonage, so long closed, should be opened freely to
all his flock; and the truth was so plain, he wondered it could have escaped him so long. Duty
required that his home should have an established mistress; and a mistress he forthwith determined
it should have.

Within three weeks from the day of the tea-drinking with the Tourtelots, the minister suggested
certain changes in the long-deserted chamber which should bring it into more habitable condition.
He hinted to his man Larkin that an additional fire might probably be needed in the house during
the latter part of winter; and before January had gone out, he had most agreeably surprised
the delighted and curious Tew partners with a very large addition to his usual orders,--embracing
certain condiments in the way of spices, dried fruits, and cordials, which had for a long time
been foreign to the larder of the parsonage.

Such indications, duly commented on, as they were most zealously, could not fail to excite
a great buzz of talk and of curiosity throughout the town.

"I knew it," says Mrs. Tew, authoritatively, setting back her spectacles from her postal duties;--"these
'ere grave widowers are allers the first to pop off, and git married."

"Tourtelot!" said the dame, on a January night, when the evidence had come in overwhelmingly,--"Tourtelot!
what does it all mean?"

"D'n' know," says the Deacon, stirring his flip,--"d'n' know. It's my opinion the parson has
his sly humors about him."

"Do you think it's true, Samuel?"

"Waäl, Huldy,--I du."

"Tourtelot! finish your flip, and go to bed; it's past ten."

And the Deacon went.

XIV

Toward the latter end of the winter there arrived at the parsonage the new mistress,--in the
person of Miss Eliza Johns, the elder sister of the incumbent, and a spinster of the ripe age
of three-and-thirty. For the last twelve years she had maintained a lonely, but matronly, command
of the old homestead of the late Major Johns, in the town of Canterbury. She was intensely
proud of the memory of her father, and of his father before him,--every inch a Johns. No light
cause could have provoked her to a sacrifice of the name; and of weightier causes she had been
spared the trial. The marriage of her brother had always been more or less a source of mortification
to her. The Handbys, though excellent plain people, were of no particular distinction. Rachel
had a pretty face, with which Benjamin had grown suddenly demented. That source of mortification
and of disturbed intimacy was now buried in the grave. Benjamin had won a reputation for dignity
and ability which was immensely gratifying to her. She had assured him of it again and again
in her occasional letters. The success of his Election Sermon had been an event of the greatest
interest to her, which she had expressed in an epistle of three pages, with every comma in
its place, and full of gratulations. Her commas were always in place; so were her stops of
all kinds: her precision was something marvellous. This precision had enabled her to manage
the little property which had been left her in such a way as to maintain always about her establishment
an air of well-ordered thrift. She concealed adroitly all the shifts--if there were any--by
which she avoided the reproach of seeming poor.

In person she was not unlike her father, the Major,--tall, erect, with a dignified bearing,
and so trim a figure, and so elastic a step even at her years, as would have provoked an inquisitive
follower to catch sight of the face. This was by no means attractive. Her features were thin,
her nose unduly prominent; and both eye and mouth, though well formed, carried about them a
kind of hard positiveness that would have challenged respect, perhaps, but no warmer feeling.
Two little curls were flattened upon either temple; and her neck-tie, dress, gloves, hat, were
always most neatly arranged, and ordered with the same precision that governed all her action.
In the town of Canterbury she was an institution. Her charities and all her religious observances
were methodical, and never omitted. Her whole life, indeed, was a discipline. Without any great
love for children, she still had her Bible-class; and it was rare that the weather or any other
cause forbade attendance upon its duties. Nor was there one of the little ones who listened
to that clear, sharp, metallic voice of hers but stood in awe of her; not one that could say
she was unkind; not one who had ever bestowed a childish gift upon her,--such little gifts
as children love to heap on those who have found the way to their hearts.

Sentiment had never been effusive in her; and it was now limited to quick sparkles, that sometimes
flashed into a page of her reading. As regarded the serious question of marriage, implying
a home, position, the married dignities, it had rarely disturbed her; and now her imaginative
forecast did not grapple it with any vigor or longing. If, indeed, it had been possible that
a man of high standing, character, cultivation,--equal, in short, to the Johnses in every way,--should
woo her with pertinacity, she might have been disposed to yield a dignified assent, but not
unless he could be made to understand and adequately appreciate the immense favor she was conferring.
In short, the suitor who could abide and admit her exalted pretensions, and submit to them,
would most infallibly be one of a character and temper so far inferior to her own that she
would scorn him from the outset. This dilemma, imposed by the rigidity of her smaller dignities,
that were never mastered or overshadowed either by her sentiment or her passion, not only involved
a life of celibacy, but was a constant justification of it, and made it eminently easy to be
borne. There are not a few maiden ladies who are thus lightered over the shoals of a solitary
existence by the buoyancy of their own intemperate vanities.

Miss Johns did not accept the invitation of her brother to undertake the charge of his household
without due consideration. She by no means left out of view the contingency of his possible
future marriage; but she trusted largely to her own influences in making it such a one, if
inevitable, as should not be discreditable to the family name. And under such conditions she
would retire with serene contentment to her own more private sphere of Canterbury,--or, if
circumstances should demand, would accept the position of guest in the house of her brother.
Nor did she leave out of view her influence in the training of the boy Reuben. She cherished
her own hopes of moulding him to her will, and of making him a pride to the family.

There was of course prodigious excitement in the parsonage upon her arrival. Esther had done
her best at all household appliances, whether of kitchen or chamber. The minister received
her with his wonted quietude, and a brotherly kiss of salutation. Reuben gazed wonderingly
at her, and was thinking dreamily if he should ever love her, while he felt the dreary rustle
of her black silk dress swooping round as she stooped to embrace him. "I hope Master Reuben
is a good boy," said she; "your Aunt Eliza loves all good boys."

He had nothing to say; but only looked back into that cold gray eye, as she lifted his chin
with her gloved hand.

"Benjamin, there's a strong look of the Handbys; but it's your forehead. He's a little man,
I hope," and she patted him on the head.

Still Reuben looked--wonderingly--at her shining silk dress, at her hat, at the little curls
on either temple, at the guard-chain which hung from her neck with a glittering watch-key upon
it, at the bright buckle in her belt, and most of all at the gray eye which seemed to look
on him from far away. And with the same stare of wonderment, he followed her up and down throughout
the house.

At night, Esther, who has a chamber near him, creeps in to say good-night to the lad, and asks,--

"Do you like her, Ruby, boy? Do you like your Aunt Eliza?"

"I d'n know," says Reuben, "She says she likes good boys; don't you like bad uns, Esther?"

"But you're not very bad," says Esther, whose orthodoxy does not forbid kindly praise.

"Didn't mamma like bad uns, Esther?"

"Dear heart!" and the good creature gives the boy a great hug; it could not have been warmer,
if he had been her child.

The household speedily felt the presence of the new comer. Her precision, her method, her clear,
sharp voice,--never raised in anger, never falling to tenderness,--ruled the establishment.
Under all the cheeriness of the old management, there had been a sad lack of any economic system,
by reason of which the minister was constantly overrunning his little stipend, and making awkward
appeals from time to time to the Parish Committee for advances. A small legacy that had befallen
the late Mrs. Johns, and which had gone to the purchase of the parsonage, had brought relief
at a very perplexing crisis; but against all similar troubles Miss Johns set her face most
resolutely. There was a daily examination of butchers' and grocers' accounts, that had been
previously unknown to the household. The kitchen was placed under strict regimen, into the
observance of which the good Esther slipped, not so much from love of it, as from total inability
to cope with the magnetic authority of the new mistress. Nor was she harsh in her manner of
command.

"Esther, my good woman, it will be best, I think, to have breakfast a little more promptly,--at
half past six, we will say,--so that prayers may be over and the room free by eight; the minister,
you know, must have his morning in his study undisturbed."

"Yes, Marm," says Esther; and she would as soon have thought of flying over the house-top in
her short gown as of questioning the plan.

Again, the mistress says,--"Larkin, I think it would be well to take up those scattered bunches
of lilies, and place them upon either side of the walk in the garden, so that the flowers may
be all together."

"Yes, Marm," says Larkin.

And much as he had loved the little woman now sleeping in her grave, who had scattered flowers
with an errant fancy, he would have thought it preposterous to object to an order so calmly
spoken, so evidently intended for execution. There was something in the tone of Miss Johns
in giving directions that drew off all moral power of objection as surely as a good metallic
conductor would free an overcharged cloud of its electricity.

The parishioners were not slow to perceive that new order prevailed at the quiet parsonage.
Curiosity, no less than the staid proprieties which governed the action of the chief inhabitants,
had brought them early into contact with the new mistress. She received all with dignity and
with an exactitude of deportment that charmed the precise ones and that awed the younger folks.
The bustling Dame Tourtelot had come among the earliest, and her brief report was,--"Tourtelot,
Miss Johns's as smart as a steel trap."

Nor was the spinster sister without a degree of cultivation which commended her to the more
intellectual people of Ashfield. She was a reader of "Rokeby" and of Miss Austen's novels,
of Josephus and of Rollin's "Ancient History." The Miss Hapgoods, who were the blue-stockings
of the place, were charmed to have such an addition to the cultivated circle of the parish.
To make the success of Miss Johns still more decided, she brought with her a certain knowledge
of the conventionalisms of the city, by reason of her occasional visits to her sister Mabel,
(now Mrs. Brindlock of Greenwich Street,) which to many excellent women gave larger assurance
of her position and dignity than all besides. Before the first year of her advent had gone
by, it was quite plain that she was to become one of the prominent directors of the female
world of Ashfield.

Only in the parsonage itself did her influence find its most serious limitations,--and these
in connection with the boy Reuben.

XV.

There is a deep emotional nature in the lad, which, by the time he has reached his eighth year,--Miss
Eliza having now been in the position of mistress of the household a twelvemonth,--works itself
off in explosive tempests of feeling, with which the prim spinster has but faint sympathy.
No care could be more studious and complete than that with which she looks after the boy's
wardrobe and the ordering of his little chamber; his supply of mittens, of stockings, and of
underclothing is always of the most ample; nay, his caprices of the table are not wholly overlooked,
and she hopes to win upon him by the dishes that are most toothsome; but, however grateful
for the moment, his boyish affections can never make their way with any force or passionate
flow through the stately proprieties of manner with which the spinster aunt is always hedged about.

He wanders away after school-hours to the home of the Elderkins,--Phil and he being sworn friends,
and the good mother of Phil always having ready for him a beaming look of welcome and a tender
word or two that somehow always find their way straight to his heart. He loiters with Larkin,
too, by the great stable-yard of the inn, though it is forbidden ground. He breaks in upon
the precise woman's rule of punctuality sadly; many a cold dish he eats sulkily,--she sitting
bolt upright in her place at the table, looking down at him with glances which are every one
a punishment. Other times he is straying in the orchard at the hour of some home-duty, and
the active spinster goes to seek him, and not threateningly, but with an assured step and a
firm grip upon the hand of the loiterer, which he knows not whether to count a favor or a punishment,
(and she as much at a loss, so inextricably interwoven are her notions of duty and of kindness,)
leads him homeward, plying him with stately precepts upon the sin of negligence, and with earnest
story of the dreadful fate which is sure to overtake all bad boys who do not obey and keep
"by the rules"; and she instances those poor lads who were eaten by the bears, of whom she
has read to him the story in the Old Testament.

"Who was it they called 'bald-head,' Reuben? Elisha or Elijah?"

He, in no mood for reply, is sulkily beating off the daisies with his feet, as she drags him
on; sometimes hanging back, with impotent, yet concealed struggle, which she--not deigning
to notice--overcomes with even sharper step, and plies him the more closely with the dire results
of badness,--has not finished her talk, indeed, when they reach the door-step and enter. There
he, fuming now with that long struggle, fuming the more because he has concealed it, makes
one violent discharge with a great frown on his little face, "You're an ugly old thing, and
I don't like you one bit!"

Esther, good soul, within hearing of it, lifts her hands in apparent horror, but inwardly indulges
in a wicked chuckle over the boy's spirit.

But the minister has heard him, too, and gravely summons the offender into his study.

"My son, Reuben, this is very wrong."

And the boy breaks into a sob at this stage, which is a great relief.

"My boy, you ought to love your aunt."

"Why ought I?" says he.

"Why? why? Don't you know she's very good to you, and takes excellent care of you, and hears
you say your catechism every Saturday? You ought to love her."

"But I can't make myself love her, if I don't," says the boy.

"It is your duty to love her, Reuben; and we can all do our duty."

Even the staid clergyman enjoys the boy's discomfiture under so orthodox a proposition. Miss
Johns, however, breaks in here, having overheard the latter part of the talk:--

"No, Benjamin, I wish no love that is given from a sense of duty. Reuben sha'n't be forced
into loving his Aunt Eliza."

And there is a subdued tone in her speech which touches the boy. But he is not ready yet for
surrender; he watches gravely her retirement, and for an hour shows a certain preoccupation
at his play; then his piping voice is heard at the foot of the stairway,--

"Aunt Eliza! Are you there?"

"Yes, Master Reuben!"

Master! It cools somewhat his generous intent; but he is in for it; and he climbs the stair,
sidles uneasily into the chamber where she sits at her work, stealing a swift, inquiring look
into that gray eye of hers,--

"I say--Aunt Eliza--I'm sorry I said that--you know what."

And he looks up with a little of the old yearning,--the yearning he used to feel when another
sat in that place.

"Ah, that is right, Master Reuben! I hope we shall be friends, now."

Another disturbed look at her,--remembering the time when he would have leaped into a mother's
arms, after such struggle with his self-will, and found gladness. That is gone; no swift embrace,
no tender hand toying with his hair, beguiling him from play. And he sidles out again, half
shamefaced at a surrender that has wrought so little. Loitering, and playing with the balusters
as he descends, the swift, keen voice comes after him,--

"Don't soil the paint, Reuben!"

"I haven't."

And the swift command and as swift retort put him in his old, wicked mood again, and he breaks
out into a defiant whistle. (Over and over the spinster has told him it was improper to whistle
in-doors.) Yet, with a lingering desire for sympathy, Reuben makes his way into his father's
study; and the minister lays down his great folio,--it is Poole's "Annotations,"--and says,--

"Well, Reuben!"

"I told her I was sorry," says the boy; "but I don't believe she likes me much."

"Why, my son?"

"Because she called me Master, and said it was very proper."

"But doesn't that show an interest in you?"

"I don't know what interest is."

"It's love."

"Mamma never called me Master," said Reuben.

The grave minister bites his lip, beckons his boy to him,--"Here, my son!"--passes his arm
around him, had almost drawn him to his heart,--

"There, there, Reuben; leave me now; I have my sermon to finish. I hope you won't be disrespectful
to your aunt again. Shut the door."

And the minister goes back to his work, ironly honest, mastering his sensibilities, tearing
great gaps in his heart, even as the anchorites once fretted their bodies with hair-cloth and
scourgings.

In the summer of 1828 Mr. Johns was called upon to preach a special discourse at the Commencement
exercises of the college from which he had received his degree; and so sterlingly orthodox
was his sermon, at a crisis when some sister colleges were bolstering up certain new theological
tenets which had a strong taint of heresy, that the old gentlemen who held rank as fellows
of his college, in a burst of zeal, bestowed upon the worthy man the title of D. D. It was
not an honor he had coveted; indeed, he coveted no human honors; yet this was more wisely given
than most: his dignity, his sobriety, his rigid, complete adherence to all the accepted forms
of religious belief made him a safe recipient of the title.

The spinster sister, with an ill-concealed pride, was most zealous in the bestowal of it; and
before a month had passed, she had forced it into current use throughout the world of Ashfield.

Did a neglectful neighbor speak of the good health of "Mr. Johns," the mistress of the parsonage
said,--"Why, yes, the Doctor is working very hard, it is true; but he is quite well; the Doctor
is remarkably well."

Did a younger church-sister speak in praise of some late sermon of "the minister," Miss Eliza
thanked her in a dignified way, and was sure "the Doctor" would be most happy to hear that
his efforts were appreciated.

As for Larkin and Esther, who stumbled dismally over the new title, the spinster plied them
urgently.

"Esther, my good woman, make the Doctor's tea very strong to-night."

"Larkin, the Doctor won't ride to-day; and mind, you must cut the wood for the Doctor's fire
a little shorter."

Reuben only rebelled, with the mischief of a boy:--

"What for do you call papa Doctor? He don't carry saddle-bags."

To the quiet, staid man himself it was a wholly indifferent matter. In the solitude of his
study, however, it recalled a neglected duty, and in so far seemed a blessing. By such paltry
threads are the colors woven into our life! It recalled his friend Maverick and his jaunty
prediction; and upon that came to him a recollection of the promise which he had made to Rachel,
that he would write to Maverick.

So the minister wrote, telling his old friend what grief had stricken his house,--how his boy
and he were left alone,--how the church, by favor of Providence, had grown under his preaching,--how
his sister had come to be mistress of the parsonage,--how he had wrought the Master's work
in fear and trembling; and after this came godly counsel for the exile.

He hoped that light had shone upon him, even in the "dark places" of infidel France,--that
he was not alienated from the faith of his fathers,--that he did not make a mockery, as did
those around him, of the holy institution of the Sabbath.

"My friend," he wrote, "God's word is true; God's laws are just; He will come some day in a
chariot of fire. Neither moneys nor high places nor worldly honors nor pleasures can stay or
avert the stroke of that sword of divine justice which will 'pierce even to the dividing asunder
of the joints and marrow.' Let no siren voices beguile you. Without the gift of His grace who
died that we might live, there is no hope for kings, none for you, none for me. I pray you
consider this, my friend; for I speak as one commissioned of God."

Whether these words of the minister were met, after their transmission over seas, with a smile
of derision,--with an empty gratitude, that said, "Good fellow!" and forgot their burden,--with
a stitch of the heart, that made solemn pause and thoughtfulness, and short, in struggle against
the habit of a life, we will not say; our story may not tell, perhaps. But to the mind of the
parson it was clear that at some great coming day it would be known of all men where the seed
that he had sown had fallen,--whether on good ground or in stony places.

The cross-ocean mails were slow in those days; and it was not until nearly four months after
the transmission of the Doctor's letter--he having almost forgotten it--that Reuben came one
day bounding in from the snow in mid-winter, his cheeks aflame with the keen, frosty air, his
eyes dancing with boyish excitement:--

"A letter, papa! a letter!--and Mr. Troop" (it is the new postmaster under the Adams dynasty)
"says it came all the way from Europe. It's got a funny post-mark."

The minister lays down his book,--takes the letter,--opens it,--reads,--paces up and down the
study thoughtfully,--reads again, to the end.

"Reuben, call your Aunt Eliza."

There is matter in the letter that concerns her,--that in its issues will concern the boy,--that
may possibly give a new color to the life of the parsonage, and a new direction to our story.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] Read at the meeting of the Massachusetts Historical Society, Jan. 30, 1865.

CHAPTER IV.

I quitted the sewing-school on a Friday evening, intending to put my things in order the following
day: for Monday was my birthday,--I should then be eighteen, and was to go with my father and
select a sewing-machine.

As before mentioned, he had usually employed all his spare time in winter, when there was no
garden-work to be done, in making seines for the fishermen. These were very great affairs,
being used in the shad-fishery on the Delaware; and as they were many hundred yards in length,
they required a large gang of men to manage them. This employment naturally brought him an
extensive acquaintance among the fishermen, by whom he was always invited to participate in
their first hauling of the river, at the breaking up of winter. As he was quite as fond of
this exciting labor as we had been of fishing along the ditches, he never failed to accept
these invitations. He not only enjoyed the sport, but he was anxious to see how well the seines
would operate which he had sat for weeks in making. In addition to this, there was the further
gratification of being asked to accept of as many of the earliest shad as he could carry away
in his hand. It was a perquisite which we looked for and prized as much as he did himself.
This recreation was of course attended with much exposure, being always entered on in the gusty,
chilly weather of the early spring.

The morning after my quitting school saw him leaving us by daybreak to go on one of these fishing-excursions,
taking my brother with him. It was in April, a cold, raw, and blustering time, and they would
be gone all day. I had put my little matters in order,--though there was really very little
to do in this way, as neither my wardrobe nor chamber was crowded with superfluities,--and
having decided among ourselves where the machine should stand, I sat down with my mother and
sister to sew. The weather had changed to quite a snow-storm, with angry gusts of wind; but
our small sitting-room was warm and cheerful. We drew round the stove, and discussed the events
of the coming week. We were to try the machine on the work which my mother and sister then
had in the house,--for Jane had long since left school, and was actively employed at home.
She had gone through a similar training with myself. I was to teach both mother and her the
use of the machine; and we had determined, that, as soon as Jane had become sufficiently expert
as an operator, she was to obtain a situation in some establishment, and our earnings were
to be saved, until, with father's assistance, we could purchase machines for her and mother.
We made up our minds that we could accomplish this within a year at farthest. Thus there was
much before and around us to cheer our hearts and fill them with the brightest anticipations.
It seemed to me, that, if I had been travelling in a long lane, I was now approaching a delightful
turn,--for it has been said that there is none so long as to be without one.

We had dined frugally, as usual, and mother had set away an ample provision for the two absentees,
who invariably came home with great appetites. Our work had been resumed around the stove,
and all was calm and comfortable within the little sitting-room, though without the wind had
risen higher and the snow fell faster and faster, when the door was suddenly opened, and as
suddenly shut, by the wife of a neighbor, who, with hands clasped together, as if overcome
by some terrible grief, rushed toward where my mother was sitting, and exclaimed,--

"Oh, Mrs. Lacey! how can I tell you?"

"What is it?" eagerly inquired my mother, starting from her seat, and casting from her the
work on which she had been engaged. "What is it? Speak! What has happened?" she cried, wild
at the woman's apparent inability to communicate the tidings she had evidently come to relate.

Regaining her composure in some measure, the latter, covering her face with her hands, and
bursting into tears, sobbed out,--

"He's drowned!"

"Oh! which of them?" shrieked my mother, wringing her hands, and every vestige of color in
her cheeks supplanted by a pallor so frightful that it struck dismay to my heart.

A mysterious instinct had warned her, the moment the woman spoke the first words, that some
calamity had overtaken us.

"Which of them?" she repeated, with frantic impetuosity, "Is it my husband or my son? Speak!
speak! My heart breaks!"

"Your husband, Mrs. Lacey," the woman replied; and as if relieved from the crushing burden
she had thus transferred from her own spirit to ours, she sank back exhausted into a chair.

"Oh! when, where, and how?" demanded my mother. "Are you sure it is true? Who brought the news?"

"Your own son, Ma'am; he sent me here to tell you," answered the woman.

The door opened at the moment, and Fred, accompanied by several of the neighbors, entered the
room. Crying as if his heart would break, he called out,--

"Oh, mother! it's too true,--father is gone!"

This confirmation of the withering blow broke her down. I saw that she was tottering to a fall,
and threw my arms round her just in time to prevent it. We laid her on the settee, insensible
to everything about her.

As the news of our great bereavement spread, the neighbors crowded in, offering their sympathy
and aid. It was very kind of them, but, alas! could do nothing towards lightening its weight.
The story of how my dear father came to his untimely end was at length related to us. He had
gone out upon the river in a boat from which a seine was being cast, and by accident, no one
could tell exactly how, had fallen overboard. Being no swimmer, and the water of icy coldness,
he sank immediately, without again coming to the surface. Strong arms were waiting to seize
him, upon rising, but the deep had closed over him.

I know not how it was, but the prostration of my poor mother seemed to give me new strength
to bear up under this terrible affliction. Oh! that was a sad evening for us, and the birthday
to which all had looked forward with so much pleasure as the happiest of my life was to be
the saddest. Morning--it was Sunday--brought comparative calmness to my mother. But she was
broken down by the awful suddenness of the blow. She wept over the thought that he had died
without her being near him,--that there had been no opportunity for parting words,--that she
was not able to close his dying eyes. She could have borne it better, if she had been permitted
to speak to him, to hear him say farewell, before death shut out the world from his view. Then
there was the painful anxiety as to recovering the body. It had sunk in deep water, in the
middle of the river, and it was uncertain how far the strong current might have swept it away
from the spot where the accident occurred. The neighbors had already begun to search for it
with drags, and all through that gloomy Sunday had continued their labor without success; for
they were not watermen, and therefore knew little of the proper methods of procedure.

Days passed away in this distressing uncertainty. Our pastor, Mr. Seeley, missing Fred and
Jane from Sunday-school, as well as myself from the charge of my class, and learning the cause
of our absence, came down to see us. His consolations to my mother, his sympathy, his prayers,
revived and strengthened her. Finding that her immediate anxiety was about the recovery of
the body, he told her that the bodies of drowned persons were seldom found without a reward
being offered for them, and that one must be promised in the present case. This suggestion
brought up the question of payment, and for the first time in our affliction it was recollected
that my father had always persisted in carrying in his pocket-wallet all the money he had saved,
and thus whatever he might have accumulated was with him at the time of his death. Following,
nevertheless, the advice of our excellent pastor, a reward of fifty dollars was advertised,
and just one week from the fatal day the body was brought to our now desolated home. But the
wallet, with its contents, had been abstracted. The little fund my mother had always managed
to keep on hand was too small to meet this heavy draft of the reward in addition to that occasioned
by the funeral, so that, when that sad ceremony was over, we found ourselves beginning the
world that now opened on us incumbered with a debt of fifty dollars.

But though borne down by the weight of our affliction, we were far from being hopelessly discouraged.
It is true that my young hopes had been suddenly blasted. The bright pictures of the future
which we had painted in our little sitting-room the very morning of the day that our calamity
overtook us had all faded from sight, and were remembered only in contrast with the dark shadows
that now filled their places. The cup, brimming with joyous anticipations, had been dashed
from my lips. My birthday passed in sorrow and gloom. But I roused myself from a torpor which
would have been likely to increase by giving way to it, and put on all the energy of which
I was capable. I felt, that, while I had griefs for the dead, I had duties to perform to the
living. The staff on which we had mainly leaned for support had been taken away, and we were
now left to depend exclusively on our own exertions. I saw that the condition of my mother
devolved the chief burden on me, and I determined that I would resolutely assume it.

I had Fred immediately apprenticed to an iron-founder in the neighborhood; and thenceforward,
by his weekly allowance for board, he became a contributor to the common support. My knowledge
of the sewing-machine secured for me a situation in a large establishment, in which more than
thirty other girls were employed in making bosoms, wristbands, and collars for shirts; and
I gradually recovered from what at first was the bitter disappointment of having no machine
of my own.

I have seen it stated in the newspaper, that, when some cotton had been imported into a certain
manufacturing town in England, where all the mills had long been closed for want of a supply
from this country, the people, who were previously in the greatest distress, went out to meet
it as it was approaching the town, and the women wept over the bales, and kissed them, and
then sang a hymn of thanksgiving for the welcome importation. It would give them work! It was
with a feeling akin to this that I took my position in the great establishment referred to,
having also succeeded in obtaining a situation for my sister, whom I instructed in the use
of the machine until she became as expert an operator as myself.

The certainty of employment, even at moderate wages, relieved my mind of many domestic cares,
while the employment itself was a further relief. It was, moreover, infinitely more agreeable
than working for the slop-shops, or even for the most fashionable tailors. Our duties were
defined and simple, and there was no unreasonable hurry, and no night-work: we had our evenings
to ourselves. As usual with sewing-women, the pay was invariably small. The old formula had
been adhered to,--that because the cost of a sewing-woman's board was but trifling, therefore
her wages should be graduated to a figure just above it. She was not permitted, as men are,
to earn too much. My sister and I were sometimes able to earn eight dollars a week between
us, sometimes only six. But this little income was the stay of the family. And it was well
enough, so long as we had no sickness to interrupt our work and lessen the moderate sum.

They paid off the girls by gas-light on Saturday evening. As we had a long walk to reach home,
the streets through which we passed presented, on that evening, an animated appearance. A vast
concourse of work-women, laborers, mechanics, clerks, and others, who had also received their
weekly wages, thronged the streets. There were crowds of girls from the binderies, mostly well
dressed, and sewing-women carrying great bundles to the tailors, many of them, without doubt
uncertain as to whether their work would be accepted, just as we had been in former days. As
the evening advanced, the shops of all descriptions for the supply of family-stores were crowded
by the wives of workmen thus paid off, and the sewing-girls or their mothers, all purchasing
necessaries for the coming week, thus immediately disbursing the vast aggregate paid out on
Saturday for wages.

The quickness with which I secured employment on the sewing-machine, because of my having qualified
myself to operate it, was a new confirmation of my idea that women are engaged in so few occupations
only because they have not been taught. Employers want skilful workers, not novices to whom
they are compelled to teach everything. But what was to be the ultimate effect on female labor
of the introduction of this machine had been a doubtful question with me until now, I worked
so steadily in this establishment, the occupation was so constant, as well as so light, with
far more bodily exercise than formerly when sitting in one position over the needle, and the
wages were paid so punctually, with no mean attempts to cut us down on the false plea of imperfect
work, that I came insensibly to the conclusion that a vast benefit had been conferred on the
sex by its introduction. Yet the apprehensions felt by all sewing-women, when the new instrument
was first brought out, were perfectly natural. I have read that similar apprehensions were
entertained by others on similar occasions. When the lace-machines were first introduced in
Nottingham, they were destroyed by riotous mobs of hand-loom weavers, who feared the ruin of
their business. But where, fifty years ago, there were but a hundred and forty lace-machines
in use in England, there are now thirty-five hundred, while the price of lace has fallen from
a hundred shillings the square yard to sixpence. Before this lace-machinery was invented, England
manufactured only two million dollars' worth per annum, and in doing so employed only eight
thousand-hands; whereas now she produces thirty million dollars' worth annually, and employs
a hundred and thirty thousand hands. It has been the same with power-looms, reapers, threshing-machines,
and every other contrivance to economize human labor. I am sure that my brother would be thrown
out of employment, if there were no steam-engine to operate the foundry where he is at work,
and that, if there were no sewing-machines, my sister and myself would be compelled to join
the less fortunate army of seamstresses who still labor so unrequitedly for the slop-shops.

To satisfy my mind on this subject, I have looked into such books as I have had time and opportunity
to consult, and have found evidence of the fact, that, the more we increase our facilities
for performing work with speed and cheapness, the more we shall have to do, and so the more
hands will be required to do it. The time was when it was considered so great an undertaking
for a man to farm a hundred acres, that very few persons were found cultivating a larger tract.
But now, with every farming process facilitated by the use of labor-saving machines, there
are farms of ten thousand acres better managed than were formerly those of only a hundred acres.
There would be no penny paper brought daily to our door, unless the same wonderful revolution
had been made in all the processes of the paper-mill, and in the speed of printing-presses.
If I had doubted what was to be the consequence of bringing machinery into competition with
the sewing-women, it was owing to my utter ignorance of how other great revolutions had affected
the labor of different classes of workers.

This doubt thus satisfactorily resolved, it very soon became with me a question for profound
wonder, what became of the immensely increased quantity of clothing which was manufactured
by so many thousands of machines. I could not learn that our population had suddenly increased
to an extent sufficient to account for the enlarged consumption that was evidently taking place.
I had heard that there were nations of savages who considered shirts a sort of superfluity,
and who moved about in very much the same costume as that in which our primal mother clothed
herself just previously to indulging in the forbidden fruit. But they could not have thus suddenly
taken to the wearing of machine-made shirts. There was a paragraph also in our paper which
stated that the usual dress in hot weather, in some parts of our own South, was only a hat
and spurs. This, however, I regarded as a piece of raillery, and was not inclined to place
much faith in it. But I had never heard that any other portion of our people were in the habit
of going without shirts or pantaloons. If such had been the practice, and if it had on the
instant been renounced, it would have accounted for the sudden and unprecedented demand which
now sprang up for these indispensable articles of dress. Or if the fashion had so changed that
men had taken to wearing two shirts instead of one, that also might account for it,--though
the wearing of two would be considered as great an eccentricity as the wearing of none.

I found that others with whom I conversed on the subject were equally surprised with myself.
Even some who were concerned in carrying on the establishment in which we were employed could
not account for the immediate absorption of the vastly increased quantities of work that were
turned out. Few could tell exactly why more was wanted than formerly, nor where it went. The
only fact apparent was that there was a demand for thrice as much as before sewing-machines
were brought into use. My own conclusion was eventually this,--that distant sections of our
country were supplied exclusively from these manufactories in the great cities, which combined
capital, energy, and enterprise in the creation of an immense business. Yet I could not understand
why people in those distant sections did not establish manufactories of their own. They had
quite as much capital, and could procure machines as readily, while the population to be supplied
was immediately at their doors.

I had always heard that the South and West had never at any time manufactured their own clothing.
I knew that the Southern women, particularly, were so ignorant and helpless that they had always
been dependent on the North for almost everything they wore, from the most elaborate bonnet
down to a pocket pin-cushion, and that the supplying of their wardrobes, by the men-milliners
of this section, was a highly lucrative employment. As it is a difficult matter to divert any
business from a channel in which it has long flowed, I concluded that our Northern dealers,
having always commanded these distant markets, would easily retain them by adapting their business
to the change of circumstances. They had the trade already, and could keep it flowing in its
old channels by promptly availing themselves of the new invention.

They did so without hesitation,--indeed, the great struggle was as to who should be first to
do it,--and not only kept their business, but obtained for it an unprecedented increase. In
doing this they must have displaced thousands of sewing-women all over the country, as their
cheaper fabrics enabled them to undersell the latter everywhere. I know that this was the first
effect here, and it is difficult to understand how in other places it should have been otherwise.
These sewing-women must have been deprived of work, or the consumers of clothing must have
immediately begun to purchase and wear double or treble as much as they had been accustomed
to. I do not doubt that the consumption increased from the mere fact of increased cheapness.
I believe it is an invariable law of trade, that consumption increases as price diminishes.
If silks were to fall to a shilling a yard, everybody would turn away from cotton shirts. As
it was, shirts were made without collars, and the collars were produced in great manufactories
by steam. They were made by millions, and by millions they were consumed. They were sold in
boxes of a dozen or a hundred, at two or three cents apiece, according to the wants of the
buyer. He could appear once or twice a day in all the glory of an apparently clean shirt, according
to his ambition to shine in a character which might be a very new one. Judging by the consumption
of these conveniences, it would seem, that, if one had only a clean collar to display, it was
of little consequence whether he had a shirt or not.

