He entered the Grand Master's palace, and through the vast marble hall, where the banners hung
against the walls, and devices and armorial bearings testified to the antiquity and gallantry
of his race. The lofty roof, supported by vast ashen beams, echoed to each step as it rang
on the pavement. Sculpture and painting decorated the several galleries; but he passed by all
unnoticed, for he had one object in view which absorbed all others, and rendered him now indifferent
to the luxuries and grandeur by which he was surrounded. To his surprise when he entered a
colonnade full of the choicest flowers, which united the extreme wings of the vast building,
he found his father walking there with an anxious, timid step, his manner was nervous and uneasy.

"Frederick," said the old man, one of those dignified, astute, tall, gray-bearded, and keen-eyed
men, whom we find in the picture galleries of the middle ages, dressed in a suit of stately
black, with the golden chain of his order, and riband of the Fleece, "I was very anxious to
see you, my son. The influence of our house is deserting us; you have not attended the council
lately--there is a majority organizing against us. You should be at your post my son. The first
element of success in life is industry--patient, untiring industry; it is to this we owe the
fortunes of our house the very decorations which I wear, the consideration with which I am
treated," and the old man curled the long, tapering moustache, partly in pride, partly in anger.

"But, my father, you forget that I am wholly occupied in my studies--that you yourself urged
me to contend for the prize which the city gives--that you considered this would be the readiest
means of extending your family influence."

"Forget!" exclaimed the old man indignantly. "Forget!" and his spurs clanged upon the pavement.
"I am not quite so old as to forget thus--neither do I forget that you wasted three months
in making love to that jungfrau Marguerite, and three more months in lamenting her loss, even
after she had spurned you, you son of the chief citizen of Dantzic. You succeed in nothing,
sir; unstable as water, you trifle away all existence. Now tell me, you solitary student, where
have you been to-night? Of course not wasting every moment in the holiday with your boon companions,
and making love to all the peasants? Speak, sir."

"It is true, my father; I was at the fair," replied Frederick, submissively.

"You tell the truth at any rate," continued the Count, somewhat touched by his frankness. "Well,
then, we won't say anything more about the past and Marguerite; but tell me as frankly what
prospect you have of success in the competition for this famous clock, for on that will greatly
depend the power of sustaining our family influence."

So appealed to, Frederick thought it wise at once to prepare his father for the truth. He told
him that until that evening he had imagined that he possessed every prospect of obtaining the
prize, and then he repeated all that he had overheard Dumiger asserting. In the bitterness
of his spirit he inveighed against him as a personal enemy, and as he spoke vehemently and
earnestly, his father's eyes glistened with vengeance and pleasure, for he saw that the dignity
of the father had passed into his son; he had never seen the youth so excited, he now felt
that he was worthy of the old time-honored race.

"Ah," he said, "Dumiger again; and his scheme and plan seem well founded. However, neither
the man nor his production will find great favor in the council while I have influence there;
he may exaggerate his merits."

"I think not," said Frederick. "But there is one way to get rid of his competition," said Frederick,
laying his hand on the hilt of his sword.

"No, no, young man; take your hand from your sword: I will have no brawling, no bloodshed,
like those common burghers, whose sons are even now rustling through the market-place. But
wait a little; night gives counsel. I think I have a way far more practical and less hazardous
than that which you propose--leave the matter in my hands, Frederick. I am glad to find you
have some spirit, that it has not all been dissipated on that foolish girl; there is always
hope in man where there is energy. What I feared was that you might become a mere dreamer,
and struggle through an idle, vaporing existence: now I hold that you are worthy of your name,
although the conviction has reached me in an unpleasant form. But leave this to me, all will
be right; you have only one thing to do, to send Hoffman to me to-morrow morning."

"Hoffman the silversmith, who lives at the corner near the senate house?" asked Frederick.

"Precisely," replied the Count, and soon his firm unbroken step was heard ringing in the distance.

Frederick went out on the balcony to meditate on what possible steps his father proposed taking
to overrule the opposition of Dumiger. With all his frivolity and dissipation he was greatly
ambitious, and most anxious to sustain a reputation he had long enjoyed of having it in his
power to command success in any pursuit to which he chose to direct his attention--that Alcibiades
and Admirable Crichton character which is the principal source of failure to many men in life.
With the exception of the hours wasted in the useless pursuit of Marguerite, he certainly had
not in the present instance been wanting in exertion, and he also had, like many other chief
burghers in Dantzic, turned his attention to mechanical pursuits; it was the first time, he
now felt convinced, that those exertions would be all thrown away. As he looked down from the
lofty gallery in which he was standing on the dense circle of happy dancers, who were whirling
round and round in the center of the square; as he heard the joyous laugh from the numerous
groups who thronged the coffee-houses; as the plumes of the guards waved in the moonlight,
and the light flashed on the bright uniforms and brighter checks which reposed upon them, he
began to think how idle was a life of ambition, how far happier he was when as a boy he joined
in the merry supper; when the clear, bright, sparkling wine represented the free spirits of
those who drank it; when maidens, with gay hearts and light golden hair, sought his love. "Give
me back these joys," he exclaimed in agony; "give me that youth which graced the pursuits of
love, and which dignified every enjoyment: take from me that ambition, which only leads to
misery in its failure and to disappointment in its fulfillment."

CHAPTER III.

Hoffman, the silversmith, whom the count desired to see, was one of those men who have existed
at all times and in all countries, who trade on the exertions of those who possess more energy
and perseverance than themselves, and who really do seem essential to the great mechanism of
society. He had from time to time rendered assistance to Dumiger, who, unfortunately at the
present moment owed him a large sum of money, which it would take a long time to liquidate.
The count also had dealings with the silversmith; for in the quartier Juif all classes meet
and jostle each other. But Hoffman was a superior man of his order, he knew the secret history
of most of the important burghers, was consulted on many very delicate subjects, and could
have published more scandal than any Sunday Chronicle of these more modern days. The count
was like all other counts, incessantly in debt; so, when Hoffman was ordered to attend on the
Grand Master, he did not doubt that the mandate originated in the ordinary necessity, and he
prepared himself accordingly to evade or concede. Some time previously the count had found
it necessary to part with a great portion of his old family plate, and as it was during the
passion of his son for Marguerite, and after Dumiger had carried off the prize, he had discovered
from the loquacious goldsmith all the particulars relative to Dumiger, and amongst others the
account of his pecuniary obligations, and that Hoffman had a bond from him for a very large
sum in his possession. The object of the count's present interview with Hoffman was to know
on what terms he could purchase the bond; and when the jeweler arrived, the bargain was soon
concluded. Hoffman thought the bond would never be paid, and so the count purchased it for
three times its apparent value.

On the previous evening Dumiger returned flushed and excited to his house. The moment his friends
had left him, he began to regret the confidence he had placed in them, and the frankness with
which he had expressed himself. He retained but a very slight recollection of all that he had
said, but he thought it was quite sufficient to have aroused the ridicule of those around him.
Most painful of all sensations, the vague sense of a folly committed, the extent and the consequences
of which are alike unknown to us! As he approached his home it seemed to him that he had profaned
his affection for Marguerite by mentioning her name in that rude society, and broken her confidence
by alluding to his hopes and his fears. While his secret had been confined to his own breast,
or communicated only to Marguerite, his confidence in himself had never for a moment been weakened;
but now that others were made acquainted with his convictions and his hopes, they seemed to
him exaggerated and unfounded. He had for a moment forgotten that the chief secret of success
in all undertakings in life is Silence. Silence in the scheming, silence in the execution,
silence in the fulfillment; half the charm that had given him strength was lost now that he
had opened his breast and disclosed its secrets to others. And it was with a feeling approaching
to disgust that he entered his workroom, and saw all the material of his great enterprise scattered
about the floor.

He went to Marguerite's room. She was sleeping with all the freshness of youthful dreams glowing
on her cheek; after the tumult of the day the stillness of that room soothed his spirit. He
reflected how little satisfactory were all these pursuits compared to the tranquillity of home,
but then, even as he sat by the bedside, and with her hand in his, pondered on the past and
future--a pageant as it were, robed in cloth of gold and purple, and laurel-crowned, swept
by him; and the glory of being preëminent among his fellow-men flashed upon his soul. If he
should fail--. A cold damp settled on his brow at the thought, for in that event all his time
had been thrown away, and there was no possibility of his meeting his various engagements.
It was not one Hoffman but many that beset him, although Hoffman was truly the most avaricious
of his tribe, where all were greedy. And then, as he gazed on the lovely countenance by his
side, he thought of the affection which had resigned all luxury, and, far above all luxury,
that consideration which women so prize, for him, and that he had brought her to a home where
she had to deny herself many of those comforts to which she had been accustomed. He regretted
the deed. Still more did he regret the time that he had that night wasted, and the money that
he had squandered; but it was too late for repentance. All that he could now do was to nerve
his energies for the toil of the morrow--that morrow which comes to all men, the faith of the
procrastinator, the hope of the sufferer, the mercy of the unbeliever.

He awoke in the morning with renewed resolution, but his brow was still heated with the dissipation
of the previous night, and his hand shook as he applied himself to his work. After a couple
of hours, however, when Marguerite had taken her place by his side, he forgot Dantzic, Carl,
and Krantz, all the annoyances which threatened him. He was absorbed in his pursuit, and Marguerite
was looking over with her attention not less absorbed than his own, when to their astonishment
the magnificent carriage, with the heavy, sleek, overfed horses, of the Count Albrecht, rolled
up to the door.

"Look here, Dumiger," exclaimed Marguerite, running to the window with a woman's curiosity
flushing her cheek. "Here is the Grand Master's carriage--what can he be doing at this house?"

"He must be calling on the new arrivals who took the apartments on the first-floor yesterday,"
said Dumiger, scarcely looking up from his work, on which all his attention was concentrated.

"They are beautiful horses, and the manes and tails are decorated with ribands which would
furnish me with sashes for a whole life," thought Marguerite; but she avoided giving utterance
to her feeling, lest Dumiger should interpret it into an expression of regret at having given
up the prospect of ever obtaining all these luxuries.

Marguerite had just left the window when a heavy step was heard on the stair, and loud knock
at the door roused Dumiger from his fit of abstraction, nearly making him jump from his chair.
The impulsive "Come in!" which he uttered, was immediately succeeded by the appearance of the
Count.

Dumiger, like most men of deep thought and habits of abstraction, was diffident. He stood for
some moments thunderstruck without performing any of the usual courtesies of society. Marguerite
in her surprise imagined that she must have been guilty of some great negligence while residing
in the palace, with which the Count now came to reproach her.

The silence was broken by the Count himself, who nodded kindly, almost familiarly to Marguerite,
and without any further ceremony took the chair from which Dumiger had just risen.

"I called to see whether you were comfortable, Marguerite, in your new abode. It is small,"
continued the Count, as lolling back in his chair he touched the wall with the back of his
head: "I suppose, however, that you will some day be able to afford a larger. I do not wish
to trespass upon your confidence, but as I have the liveliest gratitude for the admirable manner
in which you, Marguerite, discharged all your duties while you were with me, you must let me
evince my recollection of them by a small wedding present." And the Count laid a rouleau of
gold pieces on the table.

"Oh, sir!" exclaimed Dumiger, seizing the Count's hand with effusion, "you are so kind but
I can assure you that we are quite happy here. When one is truly attached to another, the little
sacrifices of life become a pleasure," and Dumiger's eyes so filled with tears, that he did
not perceive the quiet, cold sneer on the Count's upper lip; but Marguerite remarked it. Moreover,
she knew the Count well--his vast ambition, his supercilious pride; she had caught the inflection
of his tone when he spoke to Dumiger, and she knew that when he affected that winning, cajoling
manner, he was always the most dangerous, and most to be suspected. So her only answer or acknowledgment
was a low courtesy, and the blood mantled in her cheek, but whether from gratitude or some
sterner feeling the Count was unable to divine.

He looked at her for some time under his long gray eyelash; Marguerite met the look calmly
and composedly. Dumiger was bustling about quite in an ecstacy of delight, and for the time
entirely forgot the clock and the Dom. Not so the Count, he was curiously scanning all the
various parts of the complicated machinery which were lying round him. He waited until Marguerite
should retire before he judged it right to commence speaking to Dumiger on the subject that
was next his heart, but Marguerite did not seem at all disposed to give him the opportunity.

Woman's prescience of danger for those she loves is wonderful. Without being able to assign
any definite reason, Marguerite felt that the man's presence boded her no good; and it was
therefore with a troubled spirit that she heard the Count, after looking several times at his
watch, suggest that he wished to speak to Dumiger alone.

Dumiger looked at Marguerite, who thought it wiser at once to take the hint than to allow the
Count to suppose that she at all questioned the sincerity of the kind interest which he affected
to take in her. He waited until the door was fairly closed, and then drew his chair near to
Dumiger's. The latter, quite unaccustomed to the neighborhood of so great a man, immediately
withdrew his seat to a more deferential distance; but the dimensions of the room speedily put
a stop to the retrogression and his modesty by arresting his chair.

"Don't be afraid," said the Count to Dumiger, in a somewhat harsher tone than he had yet used,
for he was an impatient and testy old man. "Don't draw your chair back in that way. I wish
to speak to you privately and confidentially."

Dumiger held his breath. What could the Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights have to say to
him? for, whatever might be his future greatness, at all events its promise could be known
but to few others.

"You were out last night," continued the Count. "You went to a wine-shop--you spoke loudly--you
drank deeply."

As the Count continued Dumiger's cheeks glowed. The Count must have heard all that he said.
His heart sank within him as he recalled his weakness; but his mind was soon settled on that
point by the Count.

"And when you spoke," continued he, you talked very wildly of becoming a great man; of obtaining
more enduring fame than any of our noblest citizens. By the bye, you did me the honor to class
me amongst those you were destined to triumph over."

"It was a wild, idle thought," said Dumiger, faltering forth a thousand apologies. "I did not
know what I said. Two friends led me into this error. I am sure you will forgive me, sir: I
was excited; my brain was in that state I really did not know what I said. Who ever could have
repeated this to your Excellency?"

"No one repeated it." said the Count, "so you need not entertain any mistrust of your friends.
One of my household overheard you; and his ear having caught the sound of my name, he listened
attentively, that is all. But what does it signify? You did just as all young men--ay, and
the best of our young men, do--drank deep of the Rhenish. I like you the better for it. And
then, by all accounts, you had some cause for excitement, for you believe you are to win the
greatest prize that Dantzic has ever proposed for one of her citizens."

The scene of the last night passed from Dumiger's memory when the hope of fame and the prospect
of success were mentioned. His whole countenance changed, his eye brightened, and the nostril
dilated.

"You heard that, also, your Excellency!" he said. "Well, then, I need not scruple to tell you
the truth. Yes, I have labored night and day, and I hope to obtain the reward of all this self-sacrifice;
and now I draw near the goal my blood is excited--I am fevered by my hopes. Look here, sir,"
and forgeting all his fears and etiquettes, he took the Count by the arm and led him to a curtain
which was drawn across a corner of the room where the model-clock was placed. "Here is the
work; it approaches completion; is it not worthy of the prize?"

