They also aid in the growth of the imaginative faculty, which is very early developed in the
child, and requires its natural food. "Imagination," says Dr. Seguin, "is more than a decorative
attribute of leisure; it is a power in the sense that from images perceived and stored it sublimes
ideals." "If I were to choose between two great calamities for my children," he goes on to
say, "I would rather have them unalphabetic than unimaginative."

There is a great difference of opinion concerning the value of fairy stories. The Gradgrinds
will not accept them on any basis whatever, but they are invariably so fascinating to children
that it is certain they must serve some good purpose and appeal to some inherent craving in
child-nature. But here comes in the necessity of discrimination. The true meaning of the word
"faerie" is spiritual, but many stories masquerade under that title which have no claim to
it. Some universal spiritual truth underlies the really fine old fairy tale; but there can
be no educative influence in the so-called fairy stories which are merely jumbles of impossible
incidents, and which not unfrequently present dishonesty, deceit, and cruelty in attractive
or amusing guise.

When the fairy tale carries us into an exquisite ideal world, where the fancy may roam at will,
creating new images and seeing truth ever in new forms, then it has a pure and lovely influence
over children, who are natural poets, and live more in the spirit and less in the body than
we. The fairy tale offers us a broad canvas on which to paint our word-pictures. There are
no restrictions of time or space; the world is ours, and we can roam in it at will; for spirit,
there, is ever victorious over matter.

"Once upon a time," saith the Story-Teller, "there was a beautiful locust tree, that bent its
delicate fans and waved its creamy blossoms in the sunshine, and laughed because its flowers
were so lovely and fragrant and the world was so fresh and green in its summer dress."

"It's queer for a tree to laugh," said Bright-Eye.

"But queerer if it didn't laugh, with such lovely blossoms hanging all over it," replied Fine-Ear.

Everything is real to the happy child. Life is a sort of fairy garden, where he wanders as
in a dream.

Stories offer a valuable field for instruction, and for introducing in simple and attractive
form much information concerning the laws of plant and flower and animal life.

A story of this kind, however, must be made as well as told by an artist; for in the hands
of a bungler it is quite as likely to be a failure as a success. It must be compounded with
the greatest care, and the scientific facts must be generously diluted and mixed in small proportions
with other and more attractive elements, or it will be rejected by the mental stomach; or,
if received in one ear, will be unceremoniously ushered from the other with an "Avaunt! cold
fact! What have thou and I in common!"

Did you ever tell a story of this kind and watch its effect upon children? Did you ever note
that fatal moment when it BEGAN to BEGIN to dawn upon the intelligence of the dullest member
of your flock that your narrative was a "whited sepulchre," and that he was being instructed
within an inch of his life?

"Treat me at least with honesty, my good woman!" he cries in his spirit. "Read me lessons if
you will, but do not make a pretense of amusing me at the same moment!"

This obvious attitude of criticism is very disagreeable to you, but never mind, it will be
a salutary lesson. Did you think, O clumsy visitor in childhood land, that simply because you
called your stuffed dolls "Prince" and "Princess" you could conduct them straight through the
mineral kingdom, and allow them to converse with all the metals with impunity? Nest time make
your scientific fact an integral part of the story, and do not try to introduce too much knowledge
in one dose.

Stories bring the force of example to bear upon children in the very best possible way. Here
we can speak to the newly awakened soul and touch it to nobler issues. This can be done with
very little of that abstract moralizing which is generally so ineffective. A moral "lugged
in" by the heels, so to speak, without any sense of perspective on the part of the Story-Teller,
can no more incline a child to nobler living than cold victuals can serve as a fillip to the
appetite. The facts themselves should suffice to exert the moral influence; the deeds should
speak louder than the words, and in clearer, fuller tones. At the end of such a story, "Go
thou and do likewise" sounds in the child's heart, and a new throb of tenderness and aspiration,
of desire to do, to grow, and to be, stirs gently there and wakes the soul to higher ideals.
In such a story the canting, vapid, or didactic little moral, tacked like a tag on the end,
for fear we shall not read the lesson aright, is nothing short of an insult to the better feelings.
It used to be very much in vogue, but we have learned better nowadays, and we recognize (to
paraphrase Mrs. Whitney's bright speech) that we have often vaccinated children with morality
for fear of their taking it the natural way.

It is a curious fact that children sympathize with the imaginary woes of birds and butterflies
and plants much more readily than with the sufferings of human beings; and they are melted
to tears much more quickly by simple incidents from the manifold life of nature, than by the
tragedies of human experience which surround them on every side. Miss Anna Buckland quotes
in this connection a story of a little boy to whom his mother showed a picture of Daniel in
the lions' den. The child sighed and looked much distressed, whereupon his mother hastened
to assure him that Daniel was such a good man that God did not let the lions hurt him. "Oh,"
replied the little fellow, "I was not thinking of that; but I was afraid that those big lions
were going to eat all of him themselves, and that they would not give the poor little lion
down in the corner any of him!"

It is well to remember the details with which you surrounded your story when first you told
it, and hold to them strictly on all other occasions. The children allow you no latitude in
this matter; they draw the line absolutely upon all change. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees,
if you speak of Jimmy when "his name was Johnny;" or if, when you are depicting the fearful
results of disobedience, you lose Jane in a cranberry bog instead of the heart of a forest!
Personally you do not care much for little Jane, and it is a matter of no moment to you where
you lost her; but an error such as this undermines the very foundations of the universe in
the children's minds. "Can Jane be lost in two places?" they exclaim mentally," or are there
two Janes, and are they both lost? because if so, it must be a fatality to be named Jane."

Perez relates the following incident: "A certain child was fond of a story about a young bird,
which, having left its nest, although its mother had forbidden it to do so, flew to the top
of a chimney, fell down the flue into the fire, and died a victim to his disobedience. The
person who told the story thought it necessary to embellish it from his own imagination. 'That's
not right,' said the child at the first change which was made, 'the mother said this and did
that.' His cousin, not remembering the story word for word, was obliged to have recourse to
invention to fill up gaps. But the child could not stand it. He slid down from his cousin's
knees, and with tears in his eyes, and indignant gestures, exclaimed, 'It's not true! The little
bird said, coui, coui, coui, coui, before he fell into the fire, to make his mother hear; but
the mother did not hear him, and he burnt his wings, his claws, and his beak, and he died,
poor little bird.' And the child ran away, crying as if he had been beaten. He had been worse
than beaten; he had been deceived, or at least he thought so; his story had been spoiled by
being altered." So seriously do children for a long time take fiction for reality.

If you find the attention of the children wandering, you can frequently win it gently back
by showing some object illustrative of your story, by drawing a hasty sketch on a blackboard,
or by questions to the children. You sometimes receive more answers than you bargained for;
sometimes these answers will be confounded with the real facts; and sometimes they will fall
very wide of the mark.

I was once telling the exciting tale of the Shepherd's Child lost in the mountains, and of
the sagacious dog who finally found him. When I reached the thrilling episode of the search,
I followed the dog as he started from the shepherd's hut with the bit of breakfast for his
little master. The shepherd sees the faithful creature, and seized by a sudden inspiration
follows in his path. Up, up the mountain sides they climb, the father full of hope, the mother
trembling with fear. The dog rushes ahead, quite out of sight; the anxious villagers press
forward in hot pursuit. The situation grows more and more intense; they round a little point
of rocks, and there, under the shadow of a great gray crag, they find--

"What do you suppose they found?"

"FI' CENTS!!" shouted Benny in a transport of excitement. "BET YER THEY FOUND FI' CENTS!!"

You would imagine that such a preposterous idea could not find favor in any sane community;
but so altogether seductive a guess did this appear to be, that a chorus of "Fi' cents!" "Fi'
cents!" sounded on every side; and when the tumult was hushed, the discovery of an ordinary
flesh and blood child fell like an anti-climax on a public thoroughly in love with its own
incongruities. Let the psychologist explain Benny's mental processes; we prefer to leave them
undisturbed and unclassified.

If you have no children of your own, dear Person with a Story, go into the highways and by-ways
and gather together the little ones whose mothers' lips are dumb; sealed by dull poverty, hard
work, and constant life in atmospheres where graceful fancies are blighted as soon as they
are born. There is no fireside, and no chimney corner in those crowded tenements. There is
no silver-haired grandsire full of years and wisdom, with memory that runs back to the good
old times that are no more. There is no cheerful grandame with pocket full of goodies and a
store of dear old reminiscences all beginning with that enchanting phrase, "When I was a little
girl."

Brighten these sordid lives a little with your pretty thoughts, your lovely imaginations, your
tender pictures. Speak to them simply, for their minds grope feebly in the dim twilight of
their restricted lives. The old, old stories will do; stories of love and heroism and sacrifice;
of faith and courage and fidelity. Kindle in tired hearts a gentler thought of life; open the
eyes that see not and the ears that hear not; interpret to them something of the beauty that
has been revealed to you. You do not need talent, only sympathy, "the one poor word that includes
all our best insight and our best love."

                        KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN.

PREFACE.

The fourteen little stories in this book are not offered as a collection ample enough to satisfy
all needs of the kindergartner.

Such a collection should embrace representative stories of all classes--narrative, realistic,
imaginative, scientific, and historical, as well as brief and simple tales for the babies.

An experience of twelve years among kindergartners, however, has shown us that there is room
for a number of books like this modest example; containing stories which need no adaptation
or arrangement; which are ready for the occasion, and which have been thoroughly tried before
audience after audience of children.

The three adaptations, "Benjy in Beast-Land," "Moufflou," and the "Porcelain Stove," have been
made as sympathetically as possible. Their introduction needs no apology, for they are exquisite
stories, and in their original form much too advanced for children of the kindergarten age.

                     KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN.
                     NORA A. SMITH.

THE ORIOLE'S NEST.

"See how each boy, excited by the actual event, is all ear."--Froebel.

There it hangs, on a corner of the picture frame, very much as it hung in the old willow-tree
out in the garden.

It was spring time, and I used to move my rocking-chair up to the window, where I could lean
out and touch the green branches, and watch there for the wonderful beautiful things to tell
my little children in the kindergarten. There I saw the busy little ants hard at work on the
ground below; the patient, dull, brown toads snapping flies in the sunshine; the striped caterpillars
lazily crawling up the trunk of the tree; and dozens of merry birds getting ready for housekeeping.

Did you know the birdies "kept house"? Oh, yes; they never "board" like men and women; indeed,
I don't think they even like to RENT a house without fixing it over to suit themselves, but
they 'd much rather go to work and build one,

    "So snug and so warm, so cosy and neat,
     To start at their housekeeping all complete."

Now there hung just inside my window a box of strings, and for two or three days, no matter
how many I put into it, when I went to look the next time none could be found. I had talked
to the little girls and scolded the little boys in the house, but no one knew anything about
the matter, when one afternoon, as I was sitting there, a beautiful bird with a yellow breast
fluttered down from the willow-tree, perched on the window-sill, cocked his saucy head, winked
his bright eye, and without saying "If you please," clipped his naughty little beak into the
string box and flew off with a piece of pink twine.

I sat as still as a mouse to see if the little scamp would dare to come back; he didn't, but
he sent his wife, who gave a hop, skip, and a jump, looked me squarely in the eye, and took
her string without being a bit afraid.

Now do you call that stealing? "No," you answer. Neither do I; to be sure they took what belonged
to me, but the window was wide open, and I think they must have known I loved the birds and
would like to give them something for their new house. Perhaps they knew, too, that bits of
old twine could not be worth much.

Then how busily they began their work! They had already chosen the place for their nest, springing
up and down in the boughs till they found a branch far out of sight of snakes and hawks and
cruel tabby cats, high out of reach of naughty small boys with their sling-shots, and now everything
was ready for these small carpenters to begin their building. No hammer and nails were needed,
claw and bill were all the tools they used, and yet what beautiful carpenter work was theirs!

Do you see how strongly the nest is tied on to those three slender twigs, and how carefully
and closely it is woven, so that you can scarcely pull it apart? Those wiry black hairs holding
all the rest together were dropped from Prince Charming's tail (Prince Charming is the pretty
saddle-horse who crops his grass, under the willow-tree). Those sleek brown hairs belonged
to Dame Margery, the gentle mooly cow, who lives with her little calf Pet in the stable with
Prince Charming; and there is a shining yellow spot on one side. Ah, you roguish birds, you
must have been outside the kitchen window when baby Johnny's curls were cut! We could only
spare two from his precious head, and we hunted everywhere for this one to send to grandmamma!

Now just look at this door in the side of the nest, and tell me how a bird could make such
a perfect one; and yet I've heard you say, "It's only a bird; he doesn't know anything." To
be sure he cannot do as many things as you, but after all you are not wise enough to do many
of the things that he does. What would one of my little boys do, I wonder, if he were carried
miles away from home and dropped in a place he had never seen? Why, he would be too frightened
to do anything but cry; and yet there are many birds, who, when taken away a long distance,
will perch on top of the weather-vane, perhaps, make up their little bits of minds which way
to go, and then with a whir-r-r-r fly off over house-tops and church-steeples, towns and cities,
rivers and meadows, until they reach the place from which they started.

Look at the nest for the last time now, and see the soft, lovely lining of ducks' feathers
and lambs' wool.

Why do you suppose it was made so velvet soft and fleecy? Why, for the little birds that were
coming, of course; and sure enough, one morning after the tiny house was all finished, I leaned
far out of the window and saw five little eggs cuddled close together; but I did not get much
chance to look at those precious eggs, I can tell you; for the mamma bird could scarcely spare
a minute to go and get a drink of water, so afraid was she that they would miss the warmth
of her downy wings.

There she sat in the long May days and warm, still nights: who but a mamma would be so sweet
and kind and patient?--but SHE didn't mind the trouble--not a bit. Bless her dear little bird-heart,
they were not eggs to her: she could see them even now as they were going to be, her five cunning,
downy, feathery birdlings, chirping and fluttering under her wings; so she never minded the
ache in her back or the cramp in her legs, but sat quite still at home, though there were splendid
picnics in the strawberry patches and concerts on the fence rails, and all the father birds,
and all the mother birds that were not hatching eggs, were having a great deal of fun this
beautiful weather. At last all was over, and I was waked up one morning by such a chirping
and singing--such a fluttering and flying--I knew in a minute that where the night before there
had been two birds and five eggs, now there were seven birds and nothing but egg-shells in
the green willow-tree!

The papa oriole would hardly wait for me to dress, but flew on and off the window-sill, seeming
to say, "Why don't you get up? why don't you get up? I have five little birds; they came out
of the shells this very morning, so hungry that I can't get enough for them to eat! Why don't
you get up, I say? I have five little birds, and I am taking care of them while my wife is
off taking a rest!"

They were five scrawny, skinny little things, I must say; for you know birds don't begin by
being pretty like kittens and chickens, but look very bare and naked, and don't seem to have
anything to show but a big, big mouth which is always opening and crying "Yip, yip, yip!"

Now I think you are wondering why I happen to have this nest, and how I could have taken away
the beautiful house from the birds. Ah, that is the sad part of the story, and I wish I need
not tell it to you.

When the baby birds were two days old, I went out on a long ride into the country, leaving
everything safe and happy in the old green willow-tree; but when I came back, what do you think
I found on the ground under the branches?----A wonderful hang-bird's nest cut from the tree,
and five poor still birdies lying by its side. Five slender necks all limp and lifeless,--five
pairs of bright eyes shut forever! and overhead the poor mamma and papa twittering and crying
in the way little birds have when they are frightened and sorry--flying here and there, first
down to the ground and then up in the tree, to see if it was really true.

While I was gone two naughty boys had come into the garden to dig for angle-worms, and all
at once they spied the oriole's nest.

"O Tommy, here's a hang-bird's nest, such a funny one! there's nobody here, let's get it,"
cried Jack.

Up against the tree they put the step-ladder; and although it was almost out of reach, a sharp
jack-knife cut the twigs that held it up, and down it fell from the high tree with a heavy
thud on the hard earth, and the five little orioles never breathed again! Of course the boys
didn't know there were any birdies in the nest, or they wouldn't have done it for the world;
but that didn't make it any easier for the papa and mamma bird.

Now, dear children, never let me hear you say, "It's no matter, they're only birds, they don't
care."

Think about this nest: how the mother and father worked at it, weaving hair and string and
wool together, day by day! Think how the patient mamma sat on the eggs, dreaming of the time
when she should have five little singing, flying birds to care for, to feed and to teach! and
then to have them live only two short days! Was it not dreadful to lose her beautiful house
and dear little children both at once?

Never forget that just as your own father and mother love their dear little girls and boys,
so God has made the birds love their little feathery children that are born in the wonderful
nests he teaches them to build.

DICKY SMILEY'S BIRTHDAY.

"In order to be especially beneficial and effective, story-telling should be connected with
the events and occurrences of life."-- Froebel.

Dicky Smiley was eight years old when all these things happened that I am going to tell you;
eight years old, and as bright as a steel button. It was very funny that his name should be
Smiley, for his face was just like a sunbeam, and if he ever cried at all it was only for a
minute, and then the smiles would creep out and chase the tear-drops away from the blue sky
of his eyes.

Dicky's mother tried to call him Richard, because it was his papa's name, but it never would
say itself somehow, and even when she did remember, and called him "Richard," his baby sister
Dot would cry, "Mamma, don't scold Dicky."

He had once a good, loving papa like yours, when he was a tiny baby in long white clothes;
but the dear papa marched away with the blue- coated soldiers one day, and never came back
any more to his little children; for he died far, far away from home, on a green battlefield,
with many other soldiers. You can think how sad and lonely Dicky's mamma was, and how she hugged
her three babies close in her arms, and said:--

"Darlings, you haven't any father now, but the dear God will help your mother to take care of you!"

And now she was working hard, so very hard, from morning till night every day to get money
to buy bread and milk and clothes for Bess and Dot and Dicky.

But Dicky was a good little fellow and helped his mamma ever so much, pulling out bastings
from her needlework, bringing in the kindling and shavings from the shed, and going to the
store for her butter and potatoes and eggs. So one morning she said:--

"Dicky, you have been such a help to me this summer, I'd like to give you something to make
you very happy. Let us count the money in your bank--you earned it all yourself--and see what
we could buy with it. To be sure, Bess wants a waterproof and Dot needs rubbers, but we do
want our little boy to have a birthday present."

"Oh, mamma," cried he, clapping his hands, "what a happy day it will be! I shall buy that tool-box
at the store round the corner! It's such a beauty, with a little saw, a claw-hammer, a chisel,
a screw-driver, and everything a carpenter needs. It costs just a dollar, exactly!"

Then they unscrewed the bank and found ninety-five cents, so that it would take only five cents
more to make the dollar. Dicky earned that before he went to bed, by piling up wood for a neighbor;
and his mamma changed all the little five and ten cent pieces into two bright half- dollars
that chinked together joyfully in his trousers pocket.

The next morning he was up almost at the same time the robins and chimney-swallows flew out
of their nests; jumped down the stairs, two at a time, and could scarcely eat his breakfast,
such a hurry as he was in to buy the precious tool-box. He opened the front door, danced down
the wooden steps, and there on the curb in front of the house stood a little girl, with a torn
gingham apron, no shoes, no hat, and her nut-brown curls flying in the wind; worse than all,
she was crying as if her heart would break.

"Why, little girl, what's the matter?" asked Dicky, for he was a kind- hearted boy, and didn't
like to see people cry.

She took down her apron and sobbed:--

"Oh, I've lost my darling little brown dog, and I can never get him back!"

"Why, has somebody poisoned him--is he dead?" said Dicky.

She shook her head.

"No, oh no! The pound-man took him away in his cart--my sweet little bit of a dog; he has such
a cunning little curly tail, and long, silky ears; he does all kinds of tricks, and they'll
never let me in at home without Bruno."

And then she began to cry harder than ever, so that Dicky hardly knew what to say to her.

Now the pound, children, is a very large place somewhere near the city, with a high fence all
around it, and inside are kept colts and horses, the little calves and mother cows, and the
sheep and goats that run away from home, or are picked up by the roadside. The pound- man rides
along the street in a big cart, which has a framework of slats built over it, so that it looks
something like a chicken-coop on wheels, and in it--some of you have seen him do it--he puts
the poor dogs that haven't collars on, and whose masters haven't paid for them. Then he rides
away and locks them up in the great place inside the high fence, and they have to stay awhile.
The dogs are killed if nobody comes for them.

"Well," said Dicky, "let us go and see the pound-man. Do you know where he lives?"

"Yes, indeed," answered the little girl, whose name was Lola. "I ran behind the cart all the
way to the pound. I cried after Bruno, and Bruno whined for me, and poked his nose between
the bars and tried to jump out, but he couldn't. It's a pretty long way there, and the man
is as cross as two sticks."

But they started off, and on and on they walked together, Dicky having tight hold of Lola's
hand, while she told him about the wonderful things Bruno could do; how he could go up and
down a ladder, play the fife and beat the drum, make believe go to sleep, and dance a jig.
It was by these tricks of his that Lola earned money for her uncle, with whom she lived; for
her father and mother were both dead, and there was no one in the whole world who loved the
little girl. The dear mother had died in a beautiful mountain country far across the ocean,
and Lola and Bruno had been sent in a ship over to America. Now this dear, pretty mamma of
Lola's used to sing to her when she rocked her to sleep, and as she grew from a baby to a tiny
girl she learned the little songs to sing to Bruno when he was a little puppy. Would you like
to hear one of them? She used to sing it on the street corners, and at the end of the last
verse that knowing, cunning, darling Bruno would yawn as if he could not keep awake another
minute, tuck his silky head between his two fore paws, shut his bright eyes, give a tired little
sigh, and stay fast asleep until Lola waked him.

When the two children came to the pound and saw the little house at the gate where the pound-man
lived, Dicky was rather frightened and hardly dared walk up the steps; but after a moment he
thought to himself, "I won't be a coward; I haven't done anything wrong." So he gave the door
a rousing knock, for an eight-year-old boy, and brought the man out at once.

"What do you want?" said he, in a gruff voice, for he did seem rather cross.

"Please, sir, I want Lola's little brown dog. He's all the dog she has, and she earns money
with him. He does funny tricks for ten cents."

"How do you think I know whether I've got a brown dog in there or not?" growled he. "You'd
better run home to your mothers, both of you."

At this Lola began to cry again, and Dicky said quickly:--

"Oh, you 'd know him soon as anything,--he has such a cunning curly tail and long silky ears.
His name is Bruno."

"Well," snapped the man, "where's your money? Hurry up! I want my breakfast."

"Money!" cried Dicky, looking at Lola.

"Money!" whispered little Lola, looking back at Dicky.

"Yes," said he, "of course! Give me a dollar and I will give you the dog."

"But," answered Lola, "I haven't a bit of money; I never have any."

"Neither have"--began Dicky; and then his fingers crept into his trousers pocket and felt the
two silver half-dollars that were to buy his tool-box. He had forgotten all about that tool-box
for an hour, but how could he--how could he ever give away that precious money which he had
been so long in getting together, five cents at a time? He remembered the sharp little saw,
the stout hammer, the cunning plane, bright chisel, and shining screw-driver, and his fingers
closed round the money tightly; but just then he looked at pretty little Lola, with her sad
face, her swollen eyes and the brave red lips she was trying to keep from quivering with tears.
That was enough; he quickly drew out the silver dollar, and said to the pound-man:--

"Here's your dollar--give us the dog!"

The man looked much surprised. Not many little eight-year-old boys have a dollar in their trousers
pocket.

"Where did you get it?" he asked.

"I earned every cent of it," answered poor Dicky with a lump in his throat and a choking voice.
"I brought in coal and cut kindlings for most six months before I got enough, and there ain't
another tool-box in the world so good as that one for a dollar--but I want Bruno!"

Then the pound-man showed them a little flight of steps that led up to a square hole in the
wall of the pound, and told them to go up and look through it and see if the dog was there.
They climbed up and put their two rosy eager faces at the rough little window. "Bruno! Bruno!"
called little Lola, and no Bruno came; but every frightened homesick little doggy in that prison
poked up his nose, wagged his tail, and started for the voice. It didn't matter whether they
were Fidos, or Carlos, or Rovers, or Pontos; they knew that they were lonesome little dogs,
and perhaps somebody had remembered them. Lola's tender heart ached at the sight of so many
fatherless and motherless dogs, and she cried,--

"No, no, you poor darlings! I haven't come for you; I want my own Bruno."

Now Bruno was so tired with running from the pound-man, so hungry, so frightened, and so hoarse
with barking that he had gone to sleep; but when he heard Lola's voice singing the song he
knew so well, he started up, and out he bounded half awake--the dearest, loveliest little brown
dog in the world, with a cunning curly tail sticking up in a round bob behind, two long silky
ears that almost touched the ground, and four soft white feet.

Then they were two such glad children, and such a glad little brown dog was Bruno! Why, he
kissed Lola's bare feet and hands and face, and nearly chewed her apron into rags, he was so
delighted to see his mistress again. Even the cross pound-man smiled and said he was the prettiest
puppy, and the smartest, he had ever had in the pound, and that when he had shut him up the
night before he had gone through all his funny tricks in hopes that he would be let out.

Then Dicky and Lola walked back home over the dusty road, Bruno running along beside them,
barking at the birds, sniffing at the squirrels, and chasing all the chickens and kittens he
met on the way, till at last they reached the street corner, where Lola turned to go to her
home, after kissing her new friend and thanking him for being so good and kind to her.

But what about Master Dicky himself, who had lost his tool-box? He didn't feel much like a
smiling boy just then. He crept in at the back door, and when he saw his dear mother's face
in the kitchen he couldn't stand it a minute longer, but burst out crying, and told her all
about it.

"Well, my little son," said she, "I'm very, very sorry. I wish I could give you another dollar,
but I haven't any money to spare. You did just right to help Lola find Bruno, and buy him back
for her, and I'm very proud of my boy; but you can't give away the dollar and have the tool-box
too. So wipe your eyes, and try to be happy. You didn't eat any breakfast, dear, take a piece
of nice bread and sugar."

So Dicky dried his tears and began to eat.

After a while he wanted to wipe his sticky, sugary little mouth, and as he took his clean handkerchief
out of his pocket, two shining, chinking, clinking round things tumbled out on the floor and
rolled under the kitchen table! What could they have been! Why, his two silver half-dollars,
to be sure. And where in the world did they come from, do you suppose? Why, it was the nicest,
funniest thing! The pound-man was not so cross after all, for he thought Lola and Dicky were
two such kind children, and Bruno such a cunning dog, that he could not bear to take Dicky's
dollar away from him; so while the little boy was looking the other way the pound-man just
slipped the money back into Dick's bit of a pocket without saying a word. Wasn't that a beautiful
surprise?

So Dicky ran to the corner store as fast as his feet could carry him, and bought the tool-box.

Every Saturday afternoon he has such a pleasant time playing with it! And who do you suppose
sits on the white kitchen floor with Dot and Bess, watching him make dolls' tables and chairs
with his carpenter's tools? Why, Lola, to be sure, and a little brown dog too, with a cunning
curly tail turned up in a round bob behind, and two long silky ears touching the floor. For
Dick's mamma had such a big heart that I do believe it would have held all the children in
the world, and as Lola's uncle didn't care for her the least little bit, he gave her to this
mamma of Dicky's, who grew to love this little girl almost as well as she loved her own Dicky
and Dot and Bess.

AQUA; OR, THE WATER BABAY. [Footnote: The plan of this story was suggested to me many years
ago; so many, indeed, that I cannot now remember whether it was my friend's own, or whether
he had read something like it in German.--K. D. W.]

"This standing above life, and yet grasping life, and being stirred by life, is what makes
the genuine educator."--Froebel

It was a clear, sunshiny day, and out on the great, wide, open sea there sparkled thousands
and thousands of water-drops. One of these was a merry little fellow who danced on the silver
backs of the fishes as they plunged up and down in the waves, and, no matter how high he sprung,
always came down again plump into his mother's lap.

His mother, you know, was the Ocean, and very beautiful she looked that summer day in her dark
blue dress and white ruffles.

By and by the happy water-drop tired of his play, and looking up to the clear sky above him
thought he would like to have a sail on one of the white floating clouds; so, giving a jump
from the Ocean's arms, he begged the Sun to catch him up and let him go on a journey to see
the earth.

