[1] I discharge a duty in disclosing to the public the names of the persons to whom I am indebted
for the biography of this estimable African, concerning whom Dr. Gall was the first to speak
to me. Upon the request of my fellow-citizens, D'Hautefort, attaché to the embassy, and Dudon,
First Secretary to the French legation in Austria, they hastened to satisfy my curiosity. Two
estimable ladies of Vienna, Mme. Stief and Mme. Picler, worked at it with great zeal. All the
details furnished by the defunct Angelo's friends were carefully collected. From this material
has been written the interesting account which follows. In the French translation it loses
in delicacy of style, for Mme. Picler, who wrote it down in German, possesses the rare talent
of writing equally well in prose and in poetry. I take great pleasure in expressing to these
kind persons my just gratitude.

DOCUMENTS

LETTERS OF NEGRO MIGRANTS OF 1916-1918[1]

The exodus of the Negroes during the World War, the most significant event in our recent internal
history, may be profitably studied by reading the letters of the various migrants. The investigator
has been fortunate in finding letters from Negroes of all conditions in almost all parts of
the South and these letters are based on almost every topic of concern to humanity. These documents
will serve as a guide in getting at the motive dominant in the minds of these refugees and
at the real situation during the upheaval. As a whole, these letters throw much light on all
phases of Negro life and, in setting forth the causes of unrest in the South, portray the character
of the whites with whom the blacks have had to do.

These letters are of further value for information concerning the Negroes in the North. From
these reliable sources the student can learn where the Negroes settled, what they engaged in,
and how they have readjusted themselves in a new situation. Here may be seen the effects of
the loss resulting from the absence of immigrants from Europe, the conflict of the laboring
elements, the evidences of racial troubles and the menace of mob rule.

LETTERS ASKING FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE NORTH

                                   GALVESTON, TEXAS,
                                   this 24th day of May, 1917.

     Sir: Please inform me of a situation, please ans. if fill out
     or not so I will no. answer at once.

                                   DALLAS, TEX.,
                                   April 23, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Having been informed through the Chicago Defender
     paper that I can secure information from you. I am a constant
     reader of the Defender and am contemplating on leaving here for
     some point north. Having your city in view I thought to inquire
     of you about conditions for work, housing, wages and everything
     necessary. I am now employed as a laborer in a structural shop,
     have worked for the firm five years.

     I stored cars for Armour packing co. 3 years, I also claims to
     know something about candy making, am handy at most anything for
     an honest living. I am 31 yrs. old have a very industrious wife,
     no children. If chances are available for work of any kind let me
     know. Any information you can give me will be highly appreciated.

                                   SAVANNAH, GA., April 24, 1917.

     Sir: I saw an advertisement in the Chicago Ledger where you
     would send tickets to any one desireing to come up there. I am a
     married man with a wife only, and I am 38 years of age, and both
     of us have so far splendid health, and would like very much to
     come out there provided we could get good employment regarding
     the advertisement.

                                   WINSTON-SALEM, N. N., April 23, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Colored people of this place who know you by note of
     your great paper the Age and otherwise desire to get information
     from you of jobs of better opportunities for them and better
     advantages.

     You will do us a great favor to answer us in advance.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., June 11, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Will you please send me the name of the society in
     Chicago that cares for colored emigrants who come north
     seeking-employment sometime ago I saw the name of this society in
     the defender but of late it does not appear in the paper so I
     kindly as you please try and get the name of this society and
     send the same to me at this city.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 27, 1917.

     Sir: Your advertisement appearing in the Chicago Defender have
     influenced me to write to you with no delay. For seven previous
     years I bore the reputation of a first class laundress in Selma.
     I have much experience with all of the machines in this laundry.
     This laundry is noted for its skillful work of neatness and ect.
     We do sample work for different laundries of neighboring cities,
     viz. Montgomery, Birmingham and Mobile once or twice a year. At
     preseant I do house work but would like to get in touch with the
     Chicago ----. I have an eager desire of a clear information how
     to get a good position. I have a written recommendation from the
     foreman of which I largely depend upon as a relief. You will do
     me a noble favor with an answer in the earliest possible moment
     with a description all about the work.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., 4-25-17.

     Dear Sir: in reading a copy of the Chicago defender note that
     if i get in touch with you you would assist me in getting
     imployment. i am now imployed in Florida East coast R R service
     road way department any thing in working line myself and friends
     would be very glad to get in touch with as labors. We would be
     more than glad to do so and would highly appreciate it the very
     best we can advise where we can get work to do, fairly good wages
     also is it possible that we could get transportation to the
     destination. We are working men with familys. Please answer at
     once, i am your of esteem. We are not particular about the
     electric lights and all i want is fairly good wages and steady
     work.

                                   Pensacola, Fla., April 28, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I seen in the Chicago Defender where men was wanted
     in small towns near Chicago at fair wages. As i want to lokate in
     the north i thought it very nessary to consult you in the
     direction of this work, hoping to receive from you full
     pertikulars i a wate a reply.

                                   ATLANTA, GA., April 30, 1917.

     Sir: I would thank you kindly to explain to me how you get work
     and what term I am comeing to Chicago this spring and would like
     to know jest what to do would thank and appreciate a letter from
     you soon telling me the thing that I wont to know.

                                   VICKSBURG, MISS., May the 5th, 1917.

     Sir: Just wants you to give me a few words of enfermation of
     labor situations in your city or south Dakota grain farms what is
     their offers and their adress. Will thank you for any enfermation
     given of same.

                                   FULLERTON, LA., April 28, 1917.

     Dear sir: I was reading about you was neading labor ninety
     miles of Chicago what is the name of the place and what R R
     extends ther i wants to come north and i wants a stedy employment
     ther what doe you pay per day i dont no anything about molding
     works but have been working around machinery for 10 years. Let me
     no what doe you pay for such work and can you give me a job of
     that kind or a job at common labor and let me no your prices and
     how many hours for a day.

                                   MARCEL, MISS., 10/4/17.

     Dear Sir: Although I am a stranger to you but I am a man of the
     so called colored race and can give you the very best or
     reference as to my character and ability by prominent citizens of
     my community by both white and colored people that knows me
     although am native of Ohio whiles I am a northern desent were
     reared in this state of Mississippi. Now I am a reader of your
     paper the Chicago Defender. After reading your writing ever wek I
     am compell & persuade to say that I know you are a real man of my
     color you have I know heard of the south land & I need not tell
     you any thing about it. I am going to ask you a favor and at the
     same time beg you for your kind and best advice. I wants to come
     to Chicago to live. I am a man of a family wife and 1 child I can
     do just any kind of work in the line of common labor & I have for
     the present sufficient means to support us till I can obtain a
     position. Now should I come to your town, would you please to
     assist me in getting a position I am willing to pay whatever you
     charge I dont want you to loan me not 1 cent but help me to
     find an occupation there in your town now I has a present
     position that will keep me employed till the first of Dec. 1917.
     now please give me your best advice on this subject. I enclose
     stamp for reply.

                                   BEAUMONT, TEX., May 14, 1917.

     My dear Sir: Please write me particulars concerning emigration
     to the north. I am a skilled machinist and longshoreman.

                                   ST. PETERSBURG, FLA., May 31, 1917.

     Dear Sir: pleas inform me of the best place in the north for
     the colored people of the South, I am coming north and I want to
     know of a good town to stop in. I enclose stamp for reply.

                                   SANFORD, FLA., April 27, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I have seen through the Chicago Defender that you and
     the people of Chicago are helping newcomers. I am asking you for
     some information about conditions in some small town near
     Chicago.

     There are some families here thinking of moving up, and are
     desirous of knowing what to expect before leaving. Please state
     about treatment, work, rent and schools. Please answer at some
     spare time.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., April 30, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Seeing you ad in the defender I am writing you to
     please give me some information concerning positions--unskilled
     labor or hotel work, waiter, porter, bell boy, clothes cleaning
     and pressing. I am experienced in those things, especially in the
     hotel line. am 27 years of age, good health--have a wife--wish
     you could give me information as I am not ready to come up at
     present. would be thankful if you could arrange with some one who
     would forward transportation for me and wife. would be very glad
     to hear from you as soon as convenient. Thanking you in advance
     for interest shown me.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., April 23, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Reading a article in the 21st issue of the Chicago
     Defender about the trouble you had to obtain men for work out of
     Chicago and also seeing a advertisement for men in Detroit saying
     to apply to you I beg to state to you that if your could secure
     me a position in or around Chicago or any northern section with
     fairly good wages & good living conditions for myself and family
     I will gladly take same and if ther could be any ways of sending
     me transportation I will gladly let you or the firm you get me
     position with deduct transportation fee out of my salary. as I
     said before I will gladly take position in northern city or
     county where a mans a man here are a few positions which I am
     capable of holding down. Laborer, expirance porter, butler or
     driver of Ford car. Thaking you in advance for your kindness, beg
     to remain.

                                   CEDAR GROVE, LA., April 23, 1917.

     Dear Sir: to day I was advise by the defendent offices in your
     city to communicate with you in regards to the labor for the
     colored of the south as I was lead to beleave that you was in
     position of firms of your city & your near by surrounding towns
     of Chicago. Please state me how is the times in & around Chicago
     for the colored laboring man of the south & the average salary of
     the labor man & the rates of room & ordanary board. Kindly state
     to me just in every prticly that you no of that I have asked. I
     will be in your city on or before six weeks from date above and
     desire to becom a citizen of same. Please reply me at wonce. i
     enclos stamp for quick action. When i arive you city i will be
     more than glad to apply at your place as i wish to thank you in
     advance for any asistance that you will do for me or tell me.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., 5-5-17.

     Dear Sir: Am applying for a position in your city if there be
     any work of my trade. I am a water pipe corker and has worked
     foreman on subservice drainage and sewer in this city for ten
     (10) years. I am now out of work and want to leave this city. I
     am a man of family therefore I am very anxious for an immediate
     reply. Please find enclosed self addressed envelop for return
     answer.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., 5-5-17.

     Dear Sirs: I was advised by the Chicago Defender to get in
     touch with you if I desired to locate in or around Chicago. I
     write this to find out what kind of work that you have on slate.
     I expect to locate in or around Chicago by the first of June.

                                   ANNISTON, ALA., April 29, 1918.

     Dear sir: I read a peas in the defender about the member com
     north I shall be vary glad to com in touch with you, as am
     planing on coming north and I riting you that you mite no of som
     good town in that secson I am a carpenter by traid and I would
     like for you to locate in me as I should not like to com in that
     secson with out no enfremation.

                                   CHARLESTON, S. C., Feb. 10, 1917.

     Gentlemen: Upon reading the N. Y. age, have seen where there
     are need of employees in some sugar concern in New York. Kindly
     answer this letter, and tell me the nature of the work.

     As I am from the south and it is an average difficulty for a
     southerner to endure the cold without being climatize. If it is
     possiable for you to get any other job for me regardless to its
     nature just since the work is indoor I'll appreciate the same.

     As it is understood the times in the south is very hard and one
     can scarcely live. Kindly take the matters into consideration,
     and reply to my request at your earliest convenience.

                                   CHARLESTON, S. C., May 25, 1917.

     Sir: Having been informed that you can secure jobs for people
     who desire to leave the south, I would like to get information
     about the conditions and wages either in Niagra or Detroit. I
     would prefer work in a factory in either town. Also advise as to
     climate.

     Dear Sirs: Having heard of you through a friend of mine, I
     thought that I would write asking you to please send me full
     information as to conditions and chances for the advancement of
     the negro in the north.

     I am seeking for the opportunity and chance of advancement as far
     as my ability is capable as I am a negro my self.

     I would like very much to get in touch with you if think that you
     can give me some assistance along the line which I have spoken.

                                   MIAMI, FLA., May 4, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Some time ago down this side it was a rumour about
     the great work going on in the north. But at the present time
     every thing is quite there, people saying that all we have been
     hearing was false until I caught hold of the Chicago Defender I
     see where its more positions are still open. Now I am very
     anxious to get up there. I follows up cooking. I also was a
     stevedor. I used to have from 150 to 200 men under my charge.
     They thought I was capable in doing the work and at the meantime
     I am willing to do anything. I have a wife and she is a very good
     cook. She has lots of references from the north and south. Now
     dear sir if you can send me a ticket so I can come up there and
     after I get straightened out I will send for my wife. You will
     oblige me by doing so at as early date as possible.

     Dear Sirs: I am now looking for a location and am a man hunting
     work and there is so many has left the South for the north and
     Seemes as they are all gone to one place now please send the
     names of some firms that wants labor i am a Man who Beleave in
     right and Beleave in work and has worked all of my days and mean
     to work till i die and Never been No kind of trouble and never
     has to be made work.

     Now i will Cloes, hoping to here from you Soon Yours Very Truly,

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., 4/24/17

     Dear Sirs: Being desirous of leaving the South for the
     beterment of my condition generaly and seeking a Home Somewhere
     in Ill' Chicago or some other prosperious Town I am at sea about
     the best place to locate having a family dependent on me for
     support. I am informed by the Chicago Defender a very valuable
     paper which has for its purpose the Uplifting of my race, and of
     which I am a constant reader and real lover, that you were in
     position to show some light to one in my condition.

     Seeking a Northern Home. If this is true Kindly inform me by next
     mail the next best thing to do Being a poor man with a family to
     care for, I am not coming to live on flowry Beds of ease for I am
     a man who works and wish to make the best I can out of life I do
     not wish to come there hoodwinked not knowing where to go or what
     to do so I Solicite your help in this matter and thanking you in
     advance for what advice you may be pleased to Give I am yours for
     success.

     P.S. I am presently imployed in the I C RR. Mail Department at
     Union Station this city.

                                   PALESTINE, TEX., Mar. 11th, 1917.

     Sirs: this is somewhat a letter of information I am a colored
     Boy aged 15 years old and I am talented for an artist and I am in
     search of some one will Cultivate my talent I have studied
     Cartooning therefore I am a Cartoonist and I intend to visit
     Chicago this summer and I want to keep in touch with your
     association and too from you knowledge can a Colored boy be an
     artist and make a white man's salary up there I will tell you
     more and also send a fiew samples of my work when I rec an answer
     from you.

                                   TOPEKA, KANSAS, May 1st, 1917.

     The Editor of The Chicago Defender.

     My Dear Sir: Being a regular reader of your most valuable paper
     (The Defender) I am impressed with the seeming unlimited interest
     that paper is taking in the welfare of the army of emigrants
     comeing from the south.

     This alone without the knowledge of its incomparable service as a
     link in the chain that should bind our people together more
     closely through out the country, should demand its presence in
     every negro home of this country. In keeping in touch with the
     doings of our people in the east and northern states through the
     Defender. To the Majority of the Middle western race people it
     seem quite improbable that opportunities for good wage earning
     positions such as factory work and too a chance for advancement
     would be given to the workers of our race.

     Such conditions in this part of the country to my knowledge is
     rare. Noteing in the issue of last weeks paper through the
     investigation into certain matter concerning our people some
     appearantly well organized league found openings for negro
     workmen in some parts of Wis. and Ill. that could not be filled.

     As I for one that am not satisfied to content myself with little
     and to remain in the same old rut for the sake of lengthy
     assiation and fair treatment I am making My appeal to you in your
     wide aquaintence with conditions to help me to take advangage of
     an oppertunity that I might other wise miss.

     I am mechanically inclined also with the advantage of a course
     with the International Correspondance School in Automobile work
     and with several years experience. I am not afraid of any kind of
     work that pays.

     Will kindly ask you to help me all you can at my expense and I
     will be very grateful to you.

                                   GONZALES, TEXAS, May 28, 1917.

     NEW YORK AGE, New York, N. Y.

     Gentlemen: I wish to know if a man from the south come north,
     such as common laborer, stationery engineer, gasoline engineer,
     fireman or janitor able to care for heating plants ets. and able
     to pay his own way there, is there a likelihood of finding
     lucrative employment?

     I would be plased to have you advise me on the same as myself and
     several other men of good morals and sober habits and who are
     able to bear our own expenses would like to better our conditions
     by coming North.

     If you can advise us or Know of any one or place that we can get
     the desired information please give us the benefit of the same.

     Find stamp enclosed for answer.

                                   HOUSTON, TEXAS, April 20, 1917.

     Dear Sir: wanted to leave the South and Go and Place where a
     man will Be any thing Except A Ker I thought would write you for
     Advise As where would be a Good Place for a Comporedly young man
     That want to Better his Standing who has a very Promising young
     Family.

     I am 30 years old and have Good Experence in Freight Handler and
     Can fill Position from Truck to Agt.

     would like Chicago or Philadelphia But I dont Care where so long
     as I Go where a man is a man Hopeing hear of you soon as I want
     to leave on or about 15 day of May I am yours as Ever.

                                   TEMPLE, TEXAS, April 29, 1917.

     MR. T. ARNOLD HILL, 3719 State St., Chicago, Ill.

     Dear Sir: Being a reader of the Defender and young man seeking
     to better my conditions in the business world, I have decided to
     leave this State for North or West. I would like to get in touch
     with a person or firm that I might know where I can secure steady
     work. I would certainly appericate any information you might be
     able to give. I finished the course in Blacksmithing and
     horseshoeing at Prairie View College this State and took special
     wood working in Hampton Institute Hampton Va. Have been in
     practical business for several years also I am specializing auto
     work. I am a married man a member of the church. Thanking you in
     advance for any favors Am very truly

                                   ROME, GA., 5/16/17

     Dear Sir: "Ive" just read your ad in the Chicago Definder on
     getting employment. So I will now ask you to do the best you can
     for me. Now, Mr. ----, I am not a tramp by any means, I am a high
     class churchman and business man.

     I am the Daddy of the Transfer Business in this city. And carried
     it on for teen years. Seven years ago I sold out to a white
     Concern.

     I prefer a job in a Retail furniture store if I can be placed
     "Ill' now name a few things that I do. Viz I can repair and
     Finish furniture, I am an Exspert packer & Crater of furniture, I
     pack China, Cut Glass & Silver ware.

     I can Enamel, Grain & paint furniture. I can repair Violins,
     Guitars, & Mandolins, I am a first-class Umbrella Man, I can do
     any thing that can be do to Umbrella & parasol, I can manage a
     Transfer Business, I understand all about Shipping H. H. Goods &
     gurniture, I can make out Bills of Lading & write tags for the
     same.

     Now if you can place me on any of these Trades it will be all
     O.K.

                                   HOUSTON TEX April., 30, 1917.

     Sir: I read in the Chicago Defender April the 28 inst that you
     wonted men to labor in mills sir Eff you Cand Get me a joB to doo
     it will be Hiley orpresheAted I am A masster firman I cand handle
     oil or I cand Burn Cole Keep up my pumps in Good order and i is
     A no. 1 masheane helper I cand doo moste eny thange around the
     mill and if you cand Get me a joB I Will hiley orpresheate it

     And I Will Ask you to send me a pass for self and wife and when I
     Come take out my fare out off my work so pleas let me here from
     You at once I wonter com at once Cand Come recker-mended pleaS
     oBlige

                                   ATLANTA, GA., May 1/1917.

     MR. ARNOLD HILL.

     Dear Sire: I am a glazer and want information on My line of
     work. I am a cutter and can do anything in a glazing room.

     I reads the Defender and like it so much, hoping to hear from you
     soon

                                   BROOK HAVEN, MISS., 4/24/1917.

     CHICAGO URBAN LEAGUE.

     Sirs: I was reading in the defender that theare was good
     openings for Men in Smalle towns near Chicago would like to know
     if they are seeking loborers or mechanics I am going to come
     north in a few days and would rather try to have me a position in
     view would you kindly advise me along this line as I am not
     particular about locateing in the city all I desire is a good
     position where I can earn a good liveing I am experienced in
     plumbing and all kinds of metal roofing and compositeon roofing
     an ans from you on this subject would certainly be appreciated
     find enclosed addressed envelop for reply I wait your early reply
     as I want to leave here not later than May 8th I remain
     respectfully yours,

     P. S. will say that I am a Man of family dont think that I am
     picking my Job as any position in any kind of shop would be
     appreciated have had 12 years experience in pipe fitting.

                                   PINE BLUFF, ARK., 4/23-17.

     MR. R. S. ABBOTT

     Kine frind: I am riting you asting you to see if you can get me
     a job with some of the ship bilders I am a carpenter & can Do
     most iny thing so if you can get me a job pleas rite me at once.

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., 4-29/17.

     Dear Sir: I was looking over The Chicago Defender & I saw where
     you wanting mins to work & the meantime was advanceing
     transportation if it is so i would thank you kindly if you will
     aid me with a Transportation that i may come and get some of
     thoes jobs thae i am a painter by traid but i will & can do eny
     kind of worke i am a sober and hard working Man my weight is 179
     Lbs heigth 6 ft 2 in i see where you can use sum moulders i am
     not a Moulder but I am a moulder son I can do that worke till the
     Moulder Come very skilful at eny kind of work Hoping to here from
     you Soon for more rezult.

                                   PATTERSON, LA., May 1, 1917.

     Kind Sir: I saw your ad in the Defender for Laborers I am
     anxious to get north to do something I am a Cleaner and Presser
     by Trade exprence Hoffman Pressing mashine oppreator of this
     Trade is Not in your line. I would be very glad if you could get
     me a Transportation Advanced from Chicago to woek with the
     Molders I am anxious to lean That Trade I hope you with them and
     I would like to learn the Trade.

     I hope you will attend to the above matter as I am in Eanest
     about this matter.

                                   ATLANTA, GA.

     TO THE URBAN COMMITTY--

     Dear Sir: I am comming north and have read advice in the
     Chicago Defender and I would be very much obliged to you if you
     would direct me to some firm that is in need of brick layers for
     that is my Professical trade and can do any class of work and if
     I can't get Brick Work now I will consider any other good Job as
     I want to come right away I have 3 in fambly and I have no
     objection to work in other small towns I will be very glad to
     hear from you right away as I have never been north and advice
     will be excepted yours truly and friend of the race.

                                   HATTIESBURG, MISS., 12/4/16.

     HON. JOHN T. CLARK, Sec. National League on Urban Conditions,
     New York City, N.Y.

     Sir: I am writing you on matters pertaining to work and
     desirable locations for industrous and trust worthy laborers. Me
     for myself and a good number of Friends especially thousand of
     our people are moving out from this section of whom all can be
     largely depended upon for good service, for the past 15 years I
     have been engaged in insurance work of which I am at the head of
     one now, And have a large host of people at my command. I have
     had a deal of experience in the lumbering business, Hotel, Agency
     of most any kind. Any information as to employment and desirable
     locations especially for good School Conditions Church Etc., will
     be appreciated.

                                   FAYETTE, GA., January 17, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I have learned of the splendid work which you are
     doing in placing colored men in touch with industrial
     opportunities. I therefore write you to ask if you have an
     opening anywhere for me. I am a college graduate and understand
     Bookkeeping. But I am not above doing hard labor in a foundry or
     other industrial establishment. Please let me know if you can
     place me.

                                   NATCHEZ, MISS., Sept. 22-17.

     MR. R. S. ABBOTT, Editor.

     Dear Sir: I thought that you might help me in Some way either
     personally or through your influence, is why I am worrying you
     for which I beg pardon.

     I am a married man having wife and mother to support, (I mention
     this in order to properly convey my plight) conditions here are
     not altogether good and living expenses growing while wages are
     small. My greatest desire is to leave for a better place but am
     unable to raise the money.

     I can write short stories all of which potray negro characters
     but no burlesque can also write poems, have a gift for cartooning
     but have never learned the technicalities of comic drawing, these
     things will never profit me anything here in Natchez. Would like
     to know if you could use one or two of my short stories in serial
     form in your great paper they are very interesting and would
     furnish good reading matter. By this means I could probably leave
     here in short and thus come in possession of better employment
     enabling me to take up my drawing which I like best.

     Kindly let me hear from you and if you cannot favor me could you
     refer me to any Negro publication buying fiction from their race.

                                   BATON ROUGE, LA., 4/26/17.

     Dear Sir: I saw your advertisement in the Chicago Defender. I
     am planning to move North this summer. I am one of the R. F. D.
     Mail Carriers of Baton Rouge. As you are in the business of
     securing Jobs for the newcomers, I thought possibly you could
     give some information concerning a transfer or a vacancy, in the
     government service, such, as city carrier, Janitor, or something
     similar that requires an ordinary common school education.
     Possibly you could give me information about some good firm, that
     pays from, $3.50 upwards. If I could get a Job with a good
     reliable firm I would not mind quitting the government service, I
     have been a Mail carrier for 11 years.

     I want to buy property and locate in Chicago permently with my
     family.

     Please let me know what are your charges for securing positions.

                                   DECATUR, ALA., 4/25/17.

     THE CHICAGO URBAN LEAGUE

     Gentlemen: Gentlemens desious of Settling in some Small
     Northern Town With a modrate Population & also Where a Colored
     man may open a business Also where one may receive fairly good
     wedges for a While ontill well enough, azainted with Place to do
     a buiseness in other words Wonts to locate in Some Coming town
     Were agoodly no, of colard People is. Wonts to Work At Some
     occupation ontill I can arrange for other buiseness Just Give Me
     information As to the best placers for a young buiseness Negro to
     locate & make good. in. Any Northern State

     Thanking you inavance any information you may give in regards to
     Laber & buiseness Location Also when good Schools or in opration
     Please adress

     P. S. answer this at once as I plain to leave the South by May
     the 3rd. I can furnish best reffreces.

                                   DYERSBURG, TENNESSEE, 5/20, 1917.

     THE DEFENDER, NEGRO NEWS JOURNAL,

     My dear Sir: Please hand this letter to the Agency of the negro
     Employment Bureau--connected with your department--that I may
     receive a reply from the same--I am a practical fireman--, or
     stoker as the yankee people call it--have a good knowledge of
     operating machinery--have been engaged in such work for some 20
     yrs--will be ready to call--or come on demand--I am a married
     man--just one child, a boy about 15 yrs--of--age--a member of the
     Methodist Episcopal Church--and aspire to better my condition in
     life--Do me the kindness to hand this to the agent.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA.

     I seen your advertisement in the Chicago defender where you would
     direct men with families where to go in order to find good work.
     I am a Southern cook, butler or Janitor I have two boys age 15
     yrs & 13 yrs, and wife that does maid work now I would like for
     you to help me locate myself & family some where up there for
     work I can furnish reference to thirteen years of service at one
     place I am anxious to come right away.

                                   LEXINGTON, MISS., May 12-17.

     My dear Mr. H----:--I am writing to you for some information
     and assistance if you can give it.

     I am a young man and am disable, in a very great degree, to do
     hard manual labor. I was educated at Alcorn College and have been
     teaching a few years: but ah: me the Superintendent under whom we
     poor colored teachers have to teach cares less for a colored man
     than he does for the vilest beast. I am compelled to teach 150
     children without any assistance and receives only $27.00 a month,
     the white with 30 get $100.

     I am so sick I am so tired of such conditions that I sometime
     think that life for me is not worth while and most eminently
     believe with Patrick Henry "Give me liberty or give me death." If
     I was a strong able bodied man I would have gone from here long
     ago, but this handicaps me and, I must make inquiries before I
     leap.

     Mr. H----, do you think you can assist me to a position I am good
     at stenography typewriting and bookkeeping or any kind of work
     not to rough or heavy. I am 4 feet 6 in high and weigh 105
     pounds.

     I will gladly give any other information you may desire and will
     greatly appreciate any assistance you may render me.

                                   PASCA GOULA, MISS., May the 8, 1917.

     Dear Sir & frend: as understand that you ar the man for me to
     con for to & i want to Com to you & my frend & i has not got the
     money to Com Will you pleas Sir send me & my frend a ticket to
     Com an if you will I will glad La Com at onC & will worK et out
     will Be glad to do so I will not ask you to send the redey Casch
     for you dont nae me & if you Will Send me 2 tickets i will gladly
     take the, & i will Com Jest now hoping to hear from you by re
     torn male Yors Evor.

                                   MEMPHIS, TENN., May 5, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I saw your add in the Chicago Defender papa and me
     being a firman and a all around man I thought I would write you.
     prehaps You might could do me lots of good, and if you can use me
     any way write me and let me No. in my trade or in foundry work.
     all so I got a boy 19 years old he is pretty apt in Learning I
     would Like to get him up there and Learn him a trade and I have
     several others would come previding if there be an opening for
     them. So this is all ans. soon

                                   ALGIERS, LA., May 16-17.

     Sir: I saw sometime ago in the Chicago Defender, that you
     needed me for different work, would like to state that I can
     bring you all the men that you need, to do anything of work. or
     send them, would like to Come my self Con recomend all the men I
     bring to do any kind of work, and will give satisfaction; I have
     bin foreman for 20 yrs over some of these men in different work
     from R. R. work to Boiler Shop machine shop Blacksmith shop
     Concreet finishing or puting down pipe or any work to be did.
     they are all hard working men and will work at any kind of work
     also plastering anything in the labor line, from Clerical work
     down, I will not bring a man that is looking for a easy time only
     hard working men, that want good wages for there work, let me
     here from you at once,

                                   ELLISVILLE, MISS., 5/1/17.

     Kind Sir: I have been takeing the Defender 4 months I injoy
     reading it very much I dont think that there could be a grander
     paper printed for the race, then the defender. Dear Editor I am
     thinking of leaving for Some good place in the North or West one
     I dont Know just which I learn that Nebraska was a very good
     climate for the people of the South. I wont you to give me some
     ideas on it, Or Some good farming country. I have been public
     working for 10 year. I am tired of that, And want to get out on a
     good farm. I have a wife and 5 children and we all wont to get
     our from town a place an try to buy a good home near good Schools
     good Churchs. I am going to leave here as soon as I get able to
     work. Some are talking of a free train May 15 But I dont no
     anything of that. So I will go to work an then I will be sure, of
     my leaving Of course if it run I will go but I am not depending
     on it Wages here are so low can scarcely live We can buy enough
     to eat we only buy enough to Keep up alive I mean the greater
     part of the Race. Women wages are from $1.25 Some time as high
     as $2.50. just some time for a whole week.

     Hoping Dear Editor that I will get a hearing from you through
     return mail, giving me Some ideas and Some Sketches on the
     different Climate suitable for our health.

     P. S. You can place my letter in Some of the Defender Colums but
     done use my name in print, for it might get back down here.

                                   TALLADEGA, ALA., Apri 29, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I am a subscriber for the Chicago Defender and have
     been reading in your paper of occupations waiting to be filled.
     And as I understand you want the person writting to state just
     what kind of work they can do. I can car petter work and have
     been off and own for some years. I am not a finished up
     carpenter, I can do ware-house work, I can work in a wholesale, I
     have not sufficient money to come on will you be obliging to send
     me my transportation. I am near thirty eight (38) years old and
     weighs about one hundred and ninety five (195) pounds. If you
     will send a transportation please write me at once at Talladega.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 21. 17.

     Dear Sirs: I am a man that would like to get work in some place
     where I can elevate my self & family & I think some where in the
     north is the place for me & I would like to get you gentlemen to
     advise me in getting a location my trade is cook rail Road camp
     cars pre fered but will do enything els that I can do. so if you
     all can help me out in eny way I will Sure take it as a favor.

                                   PALESTINE, TEX., Mar. 24, 17.

     MR. EDITOR--

     My dear Sir: I have been reading your paper for some time my
     farther is a subscriber for the New York age I have read a few
     letters in your paper asking for help of securing a position in
     the North I am trying to make a man of myself I can get any work
     down here in the South and owing to prejudice I cant get a start
     I am 18 yrs. of age weighs 152 lbs. and any position that you can
     get me will work at any job--untill I can get better I am asking
     how can I get transportation from here it can be deducted from
     salary and I will certainly appreciate any thing you do for me
     toward helping me leave the south a gol any where in the
     north--please help me if you possible can

     I am hoping to hear from you some time soon Your agent of
     Palestine Mr. ---- is a cousin to me my farther is principle of
     D---- School but refuses to help me any I havent any special
     trade a little expierence in stage work and drawing.

                                   BESSEMER, ALA., 5/14/17.

     Sirs: Noticing an ad in Chicago Defender of your assitance to
     those desiring employment there I thought mayhaps you could help
     me secure work in your Windy City I'm a married man have one
     child. I have common school education this is my hand write. I am
     presently employed as a miner has been for 14 years but would
     like a Change I'm apt to learn would like to get where I could go
     on up and support myself and family. You know more about it than
     I but in your opinion could I make anything as pullman porter
     being inexsperienced? I'd be so grateful to U. to place me in
     something Ive worked myself too hard for nothing. I'm sober and
     can adjust my life with any kind and am a quiet Christian man.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, 4/25/17.

     Kind Sir: I noticed in last weeks Defender an issieu relating
     to ocupations in your territory I am a Laborer of N.O. and desire
     to get information concerning Best ways and means of securing a
     Position I am absolutely willing to do manual Labor any-where
     will you--Kindly inform me as to what step can be taken for
     further reference if necessary apply to ---- Hoping this will
     meet with your generous approval I remain

                                   NEW ORLEANS, April 22, 1917.

     under the head lines in the Chicage Defender of Saturday April
     22-17 I red how some of us that goes up north are being treated.
     there is a few that have gone from this city north, and came back
     a few weeks. some say they came back on account of being to cold
     "The others Say they ware to pay so much to get work etc" I would
     like to go north. and would rather be in some place. other then
     Chicago. or near Chicago. I am a union man" but dont exspect to
     work at union only" there is a few of us union men that are
     planing to go north and Kindly please write me" all so I mail you
     one of my union cards hoping to heare from you soon I am
     respectfully, Yours.

                                   MEMPHIS, TENN., May 12 8 17.

     Dear Sir: I am a constant reader of your paper which can be
     purchased here at the Panama Cafe news stand. Mr. ---- at present
     I am employed as agent for the Interstate Life and acc'd ins. Co.
     but on account of the race people leaving here so very fast my
     present job is no longer a profitable one. I have a number of
     young friends in your city who are advising me to come to Chicago
     and I have just about made up my mind to come. but before leaving
     here I wanted to ask Some advice from you along certain lines. I
     am buying property here and taking up notes each month on Same
     these notes now are aroun $14 per month. and with my present
     Salary and the unusual high price on everything I can't possibly
     protect myself very long against a foreclosure on above mentioned
     property on account of my Salary being less than $50.00 per
     month. Mr. ---- do you think I could come to your city with
     myself and wife rent this place out here and better my condition
     financially? I am strong and able to do anything kind of work so
     long as the Salary is O. K. I have a fair experience as a meat
     cutter and can furnish the best of reference from business houses
     one of them is Swift & Co of this city. I hope you can understand
     me clearly, it is my aim to make an honest living and would not
     dream of any other method. I am prepared to leave here at any
     time and must go Some place but Chicago is the place that impress
     me most. and having the confidence in you as a great race man I
     am writing you for your honest opinion concerning the facts in
     the matter. Many thanks for the information in today's paper
     under the Caption ("Know thyself") hoping this will meet with
     your hearty Cooperation.

     P. S. What is about the average salaries paid there for unskilled
     laborers and what is board and room rent? if I come would it be
     advisable to come alone and Secure location and everything and
     then have my wife come later?

                                   JACKSON, MISS., May 10-17.

     Kind Sir: I saw your ad., in the Chicago Defender. Where you
     wonted 15 or 20 good men. So I am Writing you asking you do you
     still wont them. Also you said that you would send transportation
     for them. If you still wont them I can get good steady working
     men that wount to work and not gambling no rounders but working
     men. I am working man can work at anything not a left hand man
     but work both right and left. So please let me hear from you at
     once. For I wont to work and wont to work now. So if you Can not
     send transportation for all send me one. Please Oblige me.

     P.S. Please let me hear from you at once.

                                   MEMPHIS, TENN., May 22nd, 1917.

     Sir: As you will see from the above that I am working in an
     office somewhat similar to the one I am addressing, but that is
     not the purpose with which I sat out to write.

     What I would like best to know is can you secure me a position
     there? I will not say that I am capable of doing any kind of
     labor as I am not. Have had an accidental injury to my right
     foot; hence I am incapable of running up and down stairs, but can
     go up and down by taking my time. I can perform janitors duties,
     tend bar, or grocery store, as clerk. I am also a graduate of the
     Law Department, Howard University, Washington, D. C. Class of '85
     but this fact has not swelled my head. I am willing to do almost
     any thing that I can do that there is a dollar to it. I am a man
     of 63 years of age. Lived here all of my life, barring 5 or 6
     years spent in Washington and the East. Am a christian, Bapitst
     by affiliation.

     Have been a teacher, clerk in the government department, Law and
     Pension offices, for 5 years, also a watchman in the War Dept.
     also collector and rental agent for the late R. R. Church, Esq.
     Member of Canaan Baptist Church, Covington, Tenn. Now this is the
     indictment I plead to.

     Sir, If you can place me I will be willing to pay anything in
     reason for the service. I have selected a place to stop with a
     friend of earlier days at ----, whenever I can get placed there.
     An early reply will be appreciated by yours respectfully.

                                   PASCOQOULA, MISS., April 8 17,

     Dear Sir: As you have charge of the Urban League, I want to
     know if the League can locate work for about 8 or 10 men. We are
     all middle-aged men and would like to have our faires paid and
     deducted from our wages.

     We will work in any small town in Illinois. All of these men are
     property owners and have large families. We'll leave families
     'till later on.

     Any good you can do for us Will be highly appreciated.

     P.S. Some of these men have trades and are capable of working in
     railroad shops.

                                   HAMLET, N. C., May 29, 1917.

     Gentlemen: I am very desirous of changing my location and am
     writing to know whether or not you can find a lucrative opening
     for me somewhere in the North.

     I am 42 years old, married, wife and four children and a public
     school teacher and printer by profession and trade. Will accept
     any kind of work with living wages, on tobacco farm or factory. I
     am a sober, steady worker and shall endeavor to render
     satisfaction in any position in which I am placed.

                                   BEAUMONT, TEXAS, July 16, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I am a colored, am desiring work in New York or some
     of the adjoining states. I am not a skilled workman but I can do
     most any kind of common labor. I have spent several years in the
     plaining mills of the south. I know all about feeding planers and
     I can also keep them up very well. I have checked lumber and in
     fact, I can do a number of different things.

     Will you be kind enough to put me in correspondence with some one
     who would like to employ a good conscientious steady laborer.

     I have a family and I would be glad to come north to live. So
     please be so kind as to do me the favor above asked. I have a
     little education too if it could be used to any advantage.

     Hoping an early reply.

                                   COLLINS, MISS., May 1st, 1917.

     Dear Sir: By being a Subscriber and reader of the Chicago
     Defender, I read an advertisement where they are wanting and
     needing help. Needing Moulders and Machinist of course I do not
     know anything about the trade. But they Said they would pay men
     $2.25 begin with and Learn the trade And transportation forworded
     and they would deduct it Out of their wages.

     I am Very Anxious to Come Up North. And I would put all of my
     energy and mind on my work. And try in every way to please the
     One for whom I am working for. They could get about five men from
     here. One that is a Pretty good Machinist I am Writting you as
     they Gave two branches for Colored and that you is the head of
     the ---- So Any favors extended towards Me will be highly
     Appreciated hoping to hear from you at an early Date I remain
     yours truly.

                                   MCDONOGHVILL, LA., May 1--1917.

     dear Mr. ----: it afford me With pleasur to right to you on
     Some infermashian how to get me a transportation to Some town in
     the North as i Would like to Come out there to Live and better my
     condition as i am A young Man and desire to get With the good
     Clase of Laboring people i have not got a trade but i have Work
     all My time around oil Mill and Coopper Shop for the Last 8 years
     and i cand work at Moust enj thing if i get A Little experence.

     My age is--24--years good healt good behaver goof record in the
     south this is all to tell now but if you would Like to no My
     record i caNd give it to you from my Lodge--are from my
     church--good by

                                   HATTIESBURG, MISS., May 27th, 1917.

     Gentlemen: by reading in the defender of the position you are
     in for securing jobs. I thought I would write, and see if you
     could place me. Now my job pay me well, but as my wife and
     Children are anxious to come north I would try and get a job now
     I am a yellow Pine Lumber inspector and checker can furnish
     recomdation from some reliable Saw Mill Firms as there is in
     South Miss. As Gradeing Triming & Checking yellow pine lumber.

     P. S. I know I can make good in any Lumber Yard such as checking
     & stowing Lumber if you Will place me write on what terms  to--

                                   WINONA, MISS., 4/13/17.

     In reading the defender I saw your advertising for more men I
     would like very much to come up their I wants to leave the South
     and go whear I can make a support for myself and Family. I have a
     wife and six children to take cair of and I would like to bee
     whair I could cair for Them my occupation is Carpenter but I can
     do most any kind of work will you furnish me a Transportation to
     com up thair on

                                   GREENWOOD, MISS., Apr. 22nd, 17.

     Sir: I noticed in the Defender about receiving some information
     from you about positions up there or rather work and I am very
     anxious to know what the chances are for business men. I am very
     anxious to leave the South on account of my children but mu
     husband doesn't seem to think that he can succeed there in
     business, he is a merchant and also knows the barber trade what
     are the chances for either? Some of our folks down here have the
     idea that this Northern movement means nothing to any body but
     those who go out and labor by the day. I am willing to work
     myself to get a start. Tell me what we could really do. I will do
     most anything to get our family out of Bam. Please let this be
     confidential.

                                   WININA, MISS., Mar the 19 1917.

     My dear driend: it is With murch pleaser that i rite to You to
     let You no i reed Your letter & Was glad to hear from you all so
     i excepts all you Said that you wood do for me so i am a Painter
     and Carter to So i am willing to learn in neything in works kind
     So mr. ---- i thank You for Your kindes for all of Your aid so i
     am a Barber to so i am a good farmer to al all kind So i am not
     Set do Wn at all so if You Can healp pleas do So So i hay niCe
     famely so i will tell you i am a Curch member for 38 years i and
     all of my famely but 3 children so i am not a de Sever So mr.
     ---- i wood ask you for if the monney So i Was so glad to get
     your letter dear Sit When I com up thire look for me at your
     offes Pleas so mr ---- i all waYs hold gob When i get wone So in
     god name pleas healp me up there and i will pay you When i com up
     thire mr ---- i Cant raise my famely hear i wanter to So this all
     Your friend

                                   KNOXVILLE, TENN., Apr. 30, '17.

     Dear Sir: I am anxious to come to Chicago. I have thirteen
     years experiance as janitor in large residence apartment house,
     am also handy with tools.

     I have a wife and four children. If you can place me where I can
     earn a decent living for my family will appreciate it.

                                   MONTGOMERY, ALA., Dec. 3rd, 1916.

     Dear Sir: in Reading The Defender I See Where you are Disirious
     of Communicating With a better class of working men To supply the
     different trades. Please advise Some place by which I could
     better my condition North or East.

     I would be glad To come in to a better Knowing by writting you
     before Starting

                                   JAZOO CITY, MISS., 4/3/17.

     dear sir: I owe in Con sist to write you a few lines as in the
     regards of my ability as I am anxus to get some work to do I have
     a famely to work for and I habe bin workin as helper and bon do
     most any Kind of work. Has been in the Bixness as MoChinest
     helper for 7 years and Have fally good ExpernCe in it and would
     like for you to Help me out if possibl to do so I Would like to
     work in some Shop or Millplant and I Would lik for you to send me
     a transpotation and I will pay out of my salry so answer soon and
     let me no what yo Can do for me I Will Close.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., May the 4, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I write you a few line to find out about the Work and
     if I could get you to Send me and Wife and Son a transportation I
     am not a loafer and can send references that I will work.

     P. S. Please rite me at once I am anxious to here from you.

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., 30th, 1917.

     Dear Sir: in answer to your advertisment for labors I am a man
     want to work am noes a opertunity Please notiefie me at ane as I
     Want to get Job with you I Will Ask a Transportation an will leve
     when its reaches me Please take my letter in canceration ans me
     at once as I very anxious to from I am stiedy drink no whiskey or
     eny thing that is intosicating an can give fot the infomation
     Right soon

                                   MACON, GA., 4/30/17.

     Mr. ----: i War took and Read the Chicago Defender and i read
     for the Wanted laborers and i am rinten to you to let you here
     from we all that Wold liKe to taKe a laborers part with this
     Manufacturing and We or Willing to do ennery kind of Work and We
     or men Will Work and or Glad that me seet With this canne and We
     will gladly come if you will Send us transportation fore 9 Mens
     and We Will Come at once and these Mens is Men With Famly and We
     all or hard work men and i Will Say A Gin that Me Will do enny
     Kind of Work dut Me thave a tirde Some us

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., April 29-1917.

     Sir: While sitting reading the Chicago defender I found that
     you are in need labering mens that will work sir I am a labering
     man and I womts to came but are able to pay my way so I ask you
     to send me a transportation and I will come Just as soon as I get
     it I am a married man have a wife and six childrens and I wonte
     to take car of them but con not here in the south so let me here
     from you in return mail.

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., 4-25-17.

     Dear Sir: Having read in the "Chicago Defender" are helping the
     negroes of the South to secure employment I am writing you this
     note asking you to please put me & my friend in touch with some
     firm that are employing men.

     Please do what you can for us.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., June 12, 1917.

     dear sir: I am writing to you for information concerning a Job
     I have a wife and 2 children and who so ever my employer may Be I
     would ask that they may send trancipertation for me and my family
     and I will pay as i work I am a come laber man my wife is a good
     launders all So my daughter and My Son is a laber all so I am a
     railroad mon By trade please aBlige mr  ----

                                   Port Arthur, Texas.

     Kind sir: inclose you will find Just a word to you in reading
     the News I found your address and was very glad to see it Kind
     sir I write you with my hole heart and I do not mean Just to pass
     off time my brothers and I are now writing you to please send 2
     tickets one for ---- and one for ----

     we are Very Well Experence long many lines so long as publice
     work I am now employed in the largest Company in the south it is
     the Gulf Refining Co. I have ben Working for them for a number of
     years Write soon I remain yours very truly.

                                   BEAUMONT, TEXAS, May 7, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I see in one of your recent issue of collored men
     woanted in the North I wish you would help me to get a position
     in the North I have no trade I have been working for one company
     eight years and there is no advancement here for me and I would
     like to come where I can better my condition I woant work and not
     affraid to work all I wish is a chance to make good. I believe I
     would like machinist helper or Molder helper. If you can help me
     in any way it will be highly appreciate hoping to hear from you
     soon

                                   BEAUMONT, TEXAS, May 8th, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I wrote you some time ago, and never received any
     answer. I learn you can assist me in bettering my condition. I
     would like very much to come North. I have no trade but Im a
     willing worker, and the Job I have now I have had it for eight
     years and there is no advancement here for me. I can give eight
     year refference I would like mechinist helper or some thing where
     I could learn a trade I have a fair education and I wish is a
     chance I need no transportation Im very well fix financial Im
     single and 29 years old if you can help me in any way it will be
     highly appreciate. hoping to hear from you soon.

                                   HOUSTON, TEXAS, April 21, 17.

     Dear Sir: As I was looking over your great news paper I would
     like very mutch to get Some information from you about Comeing to
     your great City, I have a famile and Can give you good Referns
     about my Self. I am a Working man and will Prove up to what I say
     and would be very glad to Know from you, about a Job Allthough I
     am at work But, If I Could get Something to do I would be very
     glad to leave the South, as I Read in the Chicago Defender about
     Some of my Race going north and makeing good.--well I would like
     to be on the List not with Standing my reputation is all O.K.

     I thank you.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., May 22, 1917.

     Chicago Defender: I wish to go North haven got money enuff to
     come I can do any kind of housework laundress nurse good cook has
     cook for northen people I am 27 years of age just my self would
     you kindly inderseed for me a job with some rich white people who
     would send me a ticket and I pay them back please help me. I am
     brown skin just meaden size.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., August 27, 1917.

     Dear Sir: i am wrighting you for help i haird of you by telling
     my troble i was told to right you. I wont to come there and work
     i have ben looking for work here for three month and cand find
     any i once found a place $1 a week for a 15 year old girl and i
     did not take that, now you may say how can that be but New
     Orleans is so haird tell some have to work for food and the only
     help i have is my mother and she have work 2 week now and she
     have four children young then me and i am 15teen and she have
     such a hard time tell she is willing for me to go and if you will
     sin me a pass you will not be sorry i am not no lazy girl i am
     smart i have got very much learning but i can do any work that
     come to my hand to do i am set here to day worry i could explane
     it to you i have ben out three time to day and it only 12 oclock.
     and if you please sire sine me a pass, it more thin i am able to
     tell you how i will thank you i have clothes to bring wenter
     dress to ware, my grand mama dress me but now she is dead and all
     i have is my mother now please sire sin me a pass and you wont be
     sorry of it and if you right and speake mean please ancer i will
     be glad of that but if you would sin a pass i would be so much
     glader i will work and pay for my pass if you sin it i am so
     sorry tell i cant talk like i wont to and if you and your famely
     dont wont to be worry with me I will stay where i work and will
     come and see you all and do any think i can for you all from
     little A---- V---- excuse bad righting.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., April 29, 1917.

     My dear Sir: I take grate pleazer in writing you. as I found in
     your Chicago Defender this morning where you are secur job for
     men as I realey diden no if you can get a good job for me as am a
     woman and a widowe with two girls and would like to no if you can
     get one for me and the girls. We will do any kind of work and I
     would like to hear from you at once not any of us has any
     husbands.

                                   MOSS POINT, MISS., May 5, 1917.

     Dear Sirs: Will you please send me in formation towards a first
     class cookeing job or washing job I want a job as soom as you can
     find one for me also I want a job for three young girls ages 13
     to 16 years. Pease oblidge.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., May 7, 1917.

     Gentlemen: I read Defender every week and see so much good
     youre doing for the southern people & would like to know if you
     do the same for me as I am thinking of coming to Chicago about
     the first of June, and wants a position. I have very fine
     references if needed. I am a widow of 28. No children, not a
     relative living and I can do first class work as house maid and
     dining room or care for invalid ladies. I am honest and neat and
     refined with a fairly good education. I would like a position
     where I could live on places because its very trying for a good
     girl to be out in a large city by self among strangers is why I
     would like a good home with good people. Trusting to hear from
     you.

                                   SELMA, ALA., May 19, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I am a reader of the Chicago Defender I think it is
     one of the Most Wonderful Papers of our race printed. Sirs I am
     writeing to see if You all will please get me a job. And Sir I
     can wash dishes, wash iron nursing work in groceries and dry good
     stores. Just any of these I can do. Sir, who so ever you get the
     job from please tell them to send me a ticket and I will pay
     them. When I get their as I have not got enough money to pay my
     way. I am a girl of 17 years old and in the 8 grade at Knox
     Academy School. But on account of not having money enough I had
     to stop school. Sir I will thank you all with all my heart. May
     God Bless you all. Please answer in return mail.

                                   NATCHEZ, MISS., Oct. 5, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Now I am writing you to oblige me to put my
     application in the papers for me please. I am a body servant or
     nice house maid. My hair is black and my eyes are black and
     smooth skin and clear and brown, good teeth and strong and good
     health and my weight is 136 lb.

                                   CORINTH, MISS., April 30, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I am a good cook age 35 years. I can bring my
     recermendation with me my name is ---- ----. I am in good health
     so I would like for you to send me a transportation I have got a
     daughter and baby six months old so she can nurse so I would like
     to come up there and get a job of some kind I can wait table
     cook housegirl nurse or do any work I am ready to come just as
     soon as you send the passes to us I want to bring a box of quilts
     and a trunk of clothes so you please send us the passes for me
     and daughter. Write me at once I am a negro woman. We will leave
     her Sat. if you send the passes if you are not the man please
     give me some infamation to whom to write to a negro friend.

                                   BILOXI, MISS., April 27, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I would like to get in touch with you a pece of
     advise I am unable to under go hard work as I have a fracture
     ancle but in the mene time I am able to help my selft a great
     dele. I am a good cook and can give good recmendation can serve
     in small famly that has light work, if I could get something in
     that line I could work my daughters a long with me. She is 21
     years and I have a husban all so and he is a fireman and want a
     positions and too small boy need to be in school now if you all
     see where there is some open for me that I may be able too better
     my condission anser at once and we will com as we are in a land
     of starvaten.

     From a willen workin woman. I hope that you will healp me as I
     want to get out of this land of sufring I no there is som thing
     that I can do here there is nothing for me to do I may be able to
     get in some furm where I dont have to stand on my feet all day I
     dont no just whah but I hope the Lord will find a place now let
     me here from you all at once.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., April 28, 1917.

     Kind sir: I seen your name in the Chicago Defender I am real
     anxious to go north I and my family I am a married womon with
     family my husbon and 3 children my olders boy 15 younger 13 baby
     4 my sister 20. I can wash chamber mad dish washer nurse or wash
     and my boy can work my sister can cook or wash or nurse my
     husband is a good work and swift to lern we are collored pepel a
     good family wonts a job with good pepel pleas anser soon

     Kind Sir: We have several times read your noted paper and we
     are delighted with the same because it is a thorough Negro paper.
     There is a storm of our people toward the North and especially to
     your city. We have watched your want ad regularly and we are
     anxious for location with good families (white) where we can be
     cared for and do domestic work. We want to engage as cook, nurse
     and maid. We have had some educational advantages, as we have
     taught in rural schools for few years but our pay so poor we
     could not continue. We can furnish testimonial of our honesty and
     integrity and moral standing. Will you please assist us in
     securing places as we are anxious to come but want jobs before we
     leave. We want to do any kind of honest labor. Our chance here is
     so poor.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 30, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I after seeing your jobs advertised in the Defender
     was moved to write to you for clear information of the ---- ----.
     I am a laundress wanting a position in some place where I can get
     pay for what I do, work here are too scarce to support me
     necessarily so I humbly wish you to favor me with an early answer
     stateing the entire nature of the great colored society. Your
     answer are daily and impatiently expected by your humble servant.

                                   VICKSBURG, MISS., May 7, 1917.

     Dear Sir: This comes to say to you will you please inform us of
     some place of employment. We are working here at starvation wages
     and some of us are virtually without employment willing to accept
     any kind of work such as cooking, laundering or as domestics no
     objection to living in a small town, suburb or country. There are
     fifteen wants work. You can just write me and I will notify them
     please let me hear from you at your earliest convenience.

LETTERS ABOUT CLUBS AND GROUPS FOR THE NORTH

                                   SAUK, GA., May 1, 1917.

     Dear Sir: There are about 15 or 20 of us hard working mans
     seeking employment an we would be more than glad if you assis us
     in finding work i see here in the Chicago Defender laborers
     wanted i am a skill labor at most anything except molder but i am
     willing to learn the trade we are hard working mans no lofers
     neather crap shooters work is what we want and can not get it
     without you assistant, if you will assis us with transportation
     please rite and let us no what way to came to you these white
     folks here having meeting trying to stop us from going off to
     seek work an noing they haven got work nor wagers for us here.

     We have had jobs but loose it and have not the money to get away
     if you except my letter please give us some assistant to leave
     because is send you a letter Monday but i see afterward that it
     was send rong so i send you this one. have you got employment up
     there for female if so let us no please if you send me a speciel
     please dont put 15 or 20 men and i will under stand if you say 15
     or 20 mans they will put me in jail. please answer just as soon
     can as i want to get away as soon as i can there nothing here to
     do. some industrious female want employment answer at once
     please.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 21, 1917.

     Dear Sirs: We have a club of 108 good men wants work we are
     willing to go north or west but we are not abel to pay rail road
     fare now if you can help us get work and get to it please answer
     at once. Hope to hear from you.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., May 11, 1917.

     Dear sir and brother: on last Sunday I addressed you a letter
     asking you for information and I have received no answer, but we
     would like to know could 300 or 500 men and women get employment?
     and will the company or thoes that needs help send them a ticket
     or a pass and let them pay it back in weekly payments? We have
     men and women here in all lines of work we have organized a
     association to help them through you.

     We are anxiously awaiting your reply.

                                   ATLANTA, GA., April 29, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I was reading you advertisement in the Chicago
     Defender and it come intresting to me and I thought I would rite
     you to get information about it. There are 5 or six families of
     us wants to know would you send us a ticket if you would we would
     like to heare from you at once and we will explain our statement
     in my next letter. I am looking for reply soon.

                                   JACKSON, MISS., May the first, 1917.

     sir: I was looking over the Chicago Defender and seen ad for
     labers both woman an men it is a great lots of us woud come at
     once if we was only abel but we is not abel to come but if you
     will send me a pas for 25 women and men I will send them north at
     once men an women

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 29, 1917.

     Dear Sir: In reading the defender I seen where you are acting
     as agent for some big concerns and that you are in need of men.
     I am a married man and would like to get up there to work but it
     seems a hard proposition to get enough money to pay my fare and
     there are a lots more men around here that follow the very work
     that you want men for but cant get away upon that reason. but if
     you could plan to get us up there and let us pay after we got
     there we will be very thankful. At present I am employed as a
     boiler makers helper and all the men I speak of are boiler makers
     and machinists helpers and all are hard working men and have
     families but we want to come north. Let me hear from you please
     and I can get (12) twelve men at least that have reputation.
     Looking for an early reply, I am, Your friend for betterment.

                                   CHARLESTON, S. C., April 2, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I saw your want in the paper and I thought i would
     right you and find out about it and if you have work for me and
     my wife I will be glad to come and if you have no work for her
     you can send for me and I will be glad to come and bring along
     manny more if you want them. You can let me know at once and i
     will be glad to do so. so you can write me at once and I will
     know just what to do.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 23, 1917.

     Dear Sirs: You will find my full name and address from which
     please give infermation about jobs and also tell me will you pay
     my fare up there and take it out of my work after geting to work
     and i can get a great many men and family if you want them. they
     wants to come but they cant get no work to do so they can get the
     money to come on. I can get men women and families so please
     answer and let me me no what you will do if you need them.

                                   PASCAGOULA, MISS., May 3, 1917.

     Dear Sirs: Whilse reading over the want adv. of the Defender I
     find where you wants bench molders 20 not saying I am one but I
     am a labering man and verry apt to lern anything in a short while
     and desires to come and give it a trile or something else I can
     do eny thing in common labor hoping you will send me a
     transportation and give me a trile and I can all so bring you as
     meny men as you want if you dont want me to bring eny men send me
     a transportation for my self. hopeing to hear from you by return
     mail.

                                   HATTIESBURG, MISS., April 13, 1917.

     Sir: Please oblige me in getting me a pass to Chicago to some
     firm that are in need of labors I have three in family besides
     myself I have four or five other men with me now want to know if
     you can secure that pass we will come at once this would be about
     eight passes, my self and two in family and five men which will
     be eight passes. these are able and good work man if you can
     arrange this & let the list of passes bear each name so as to
     form a club. let hear from you soon.

                                   DE RIDDER, LA., April 29, 1917.

     Dear Sir: there is lots of us southern mens wants
     transportation and we want to leave ratway as soon as you let us
     here from you some of us is married mens who need work we would
     like to bring our wife with us there is 20 head of good mens want
     transportation and if you need us let us no by return mail we all
     are redy only wants here from you there may be more all of our
     peoples wont to leave here and I want you to send as much as 20
     tickets any way I will get you up plenty hands to do most any
     kind of work all you have to do is to send for them. looking to
     here from you. This is among us collerd.

                                   PLAQUEMINE, LA., April 288, 1917.

     Der sir: only a few lines in regards you advertismen this week
     Chicago Defender and it verry intresting to me and other that why
     Im wrighten you because it my benifit me in the futur I know
     about twenty five young men would like to go north but accorden
     to present conditions in the south wont allow them to save enough
     to go if their a possible chance of you doing enything we all
     good worker and think if you will give us a chance will proof to
     you that we can work and if you give us transportation we will
     work and pay it back from the start. I will close hope you will
     kindly except our offer and give it your persinel intrest.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, April 27, 1917.

     Dear Sirs: I have been engaged in the hotel business for
     eighteen years. And I am personally acquainted with at least
     fifty of our leading citizens of your city. And in my home I
     would refer you to Mr. ----, asst. Depot Ticket agent of the ----
     R. R. He told me that any corporation that was in need of Labor
     and placed passes with them for the same, that they would haul
     the people. I could furnish you at least one thousand in the
     next sixty days. And you will not have sixty dead beats. I will
     furnish the names, and each pass should have the name of the user
     on it before leaving Chicago. The greater number that I know have
     families and do not wish to leave without them. Let me hear from
     you at once. I can give you the business and my people will go
     any where sent and do any kind of work, if the wages are right.

                                   PATTERSON, LA., May 1, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I was reading one of the Chicago Defender papers and
     I seen a splendid opportunity to grasp a good job. I might can get you
     some more from here. I will close hope I will hear from you at
     once. Before sending the transportation write me a letter.

                                   CHATTANOOGA, TENN., May 1, 1917.

     Dear Sur: will you send me a transportation i am a foundry man
     i want to come where i can get same pay for my work and you plese
     send me a transportation for 4 good hard labore man please send
     and i can get you some good mens here i am down here working hard
     and gett nothing for it so i hop you will ancer soon and let me
     here from you i have had 7 years exprense in foundry works i noes
     my jobe well i will expet to here from you rat way so good by.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 30, 1917.

     Dear Sir: In answer to your Ad. which apeared in the Chicago
     Defender for laborer wanted to work in Foundry warehouse and yard
     work I can recruit 15 good honest men whom I believe would make
     good and can leave as soon as transportation for same is
     provided. Hopeing to hear from you soon I remain Yours truly.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., 4/30/17.

     Kind sir: only a few lines wanting to get some information
     concerning of work i want to find out when could you send
     transportations for fifteen men eight of them is molders and the
     balance of them is experienced warehouse men and experienced
     firemen if required i saw your ad in the CHicago Defender.

     This is all at present hopeing to get an early reply.

                                   CHATTANOGGA, TENN., 5-2-17.

     Dear sir: i only had the chance to see your ad to day at noon.
     i was to glad to see it and hop that i am not to lat to full it i
     am fuly sattisfied i can get as many as 10 or 15 reddy by the 7
     or 8 and we will be reddy by that time if you will tret us rite
     we will stand by you to the las

                                   CHATTANOOGA, TENN., May 2, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I beg to call you tension of some employment in your
     country. I has been inform that you will give instruction an get
     work any wher in the northern stats. I have some of the best
     labor that is in south an some of the best molders if we can get
     employment in north we wil go.

     a waiting your reply.

                                   SAVANNAH, GA., March 16, 1917.

     Gentlemen: Having learned that you ar short of laborers, I
     respectfully offer myself as an applicant for a situation, and
     would be glad to get a hearing from you as soon as it would be
     convenient for you to reply. There are also many of my friends
     that would be glad to get a situation. I am willing to do most
     eny kind of earnest work. I am 36 years of age and can read and
     wright the english language. and have good experance in busness.
     Any communication whitch you may be pleased to make addressed as
     above will receive prompt attention.

                                   ST. PETERSBURG, FLA., May 1, 1917.

     Dear sir: I am in receipt of your letter of the 16th of April
     in reply to a letter I written to you. I will say at this
     junction that there are more than 250 men desire to come north
     but is not able to come if your manufacture men would like to
     have 75 men labores from the south why he can get them for the
     fair from here to New York is only 19.00 nineteen dollars and I
     do not think that is a high transportation cost to get good
     labor. Now there are men here that will work that can and have
     10.00 ten dollars on there fair and for a little assistance they
     will come at once for the condishion there is terrible the low
     wage and high cost of living and bad treatment is causing all to
     want to come north. Now I have a family of 8 only, one boy that
     can work in the north for he is 18 years the others is school
     children and I would like to get them up there with me for I was
     raise in the eastern state Massachusett Cambridge and pass as a
     master workman in Denver Colorader making brick. Now if there is
     any way to assist why do so now if you can only assist me why
     just do it as a brother & friend I have 5 to pay for but I have a
     little moeny but not enough to pay all way 3 full and 2 half fair
     so you can readily see just where Im at but I got my fare but
     rather bring my family with me.

                                   ASHFORD, ALA., Dec. 8, 1916.

     Dear sir: I take great pleasure in writing you and replying to
     your advertiser that you all wanted colored laborers and I want
     to come up north and could get you 75 more responsible hands if
     you want them so if you please send me 3 passes are as manny as
     you like and I garontee you that I will fill them out with
     responsible hands and good ones so please let me here from you at
     once.

                                   ORANGEBURG, S. C., June 14, 1917.

     Dear Sir: your addess was gave to me this after noon by a young
     man by the name of Mr. ---- who is now in Conn. and I write him
     to see if he could get me a good job so he said to me on his card
     that he was listening for a vacan place to apply for but hesen
     found any thing not as yet but he said he wood do his very best
     for me. This time of the year most people are now goeing north so
     much I thought I wood come two so he told me to write you and see
     if I could get you to get me a good job and have the people to
     write me and advance me a transportation from Orangeburg to New
     York. He said you are the best man in New York to assist good
     fellow in to good paying jobs. I will look two here from you very
     soon.

                                   GRAHAM, LA., May 18, 1917.

     Dear sir: a word of infermation and a ancer from you please
     there are about 12 or 15 of us with our famlys leaving the south
     and we can hear of collored peples leaving the south but we are
     not luckey enough to leave hear. Dr. ---- clame to be an agent to
     sind peples off and we has bin to him so minnie times and has
     fail to get off untill we dont no what to do so if you will place
     us about 15 tickets or get some one else to do so we are honest
     enough to come at once and labor for you or the one that sind
     them untill we pay you if so requir. If we war able we wood sur
     leave this torminting place but the job we as got and what we get
     it we do well to feed our family so please let me here from you
     at once giveing full detale of my requess.

                                   SAVANNAH, GA., May 3, 1917.

     Dare sier: I understand that you wont some mens and if you wood
     sen me transportation for ten mens wood bee turly glad and please
     write to me at wonce and lete me hir form you.

                                   MEMPHIS, TENN., May 3, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Seeing you add in the Chicago definder that you are
     in need of labor I write you for full information at once hope
     you will please give me. I am willing to come & if you kneed any
     more labor I am sufficient to bring them.

     Now my dear sir if you can give me a steady job please send me a
     pass hope you will write me at once.

                                   SAVANNAH, GA., 4-30-17.

     Dear sir: in reply to the labor wanted I write you let you know
     I am a poor afflicted man can not do anything come to hand but am
     willing to work and do need something to make a support now will
     you please look up a job for me I could sweep or do any thing
     light like that could watch act as janitor if you will send me a
     transportation when I get there you see my willingness you would
     make me a job now if you will except I will get you some men and
     bring with me because I know numbers of men want to come and can
     get as many as you want. Just give me a trial.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., May 2, 1917.

     Deer sir: i reed in the Chicago Defender that you wanted some
     molder in your city i dont no wheather you mene lumber are iron
     moulder but i am 4 years experence in lumber but if you mene iron
     molder i dont think i will be many days learning the trade if it
     is any chance that i can get a good job eith you i would like to
     hear from you at once i am maried and would like to get 2
     transportation if i can and if you want some hard working mens
     let me no and i will do all that i can for you and bring them on
     with me if you will make same range ment to get them there i mean
     that i will get you some good men hard working mens like myself
     so let me here from you at once Please

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., 5/21/17.

     Dear sir: i am today righting you a few lines asking you to
     please give me some information and that is this if you know of
     any one that wants help of any kind men or women and one that
     would send a few tickets would you please give me they address i
     was told to right to you for information please lead me in the
     light as i could get five familys and 8 or 9 good men for any
     firm that wanted help, so I am awaiting your promp reply.

                                   PORT ARTHUR, TEXAS, 5/5th/17.

     Dear Sir: Permitt me to inform you that I have had the pleasure
     of reading the Defender for the first time in my life as I never
     dreamed that there was such a race paper published and I must say
     that its some paper.

     However I can unhesitatingly say that it is extraordinarily
     interesting and had I know that there was such a paper in my town
     or such being handled in my vicinity I would have been a
     subscriber years ago.

     Nevertheless I read every space of the paper dated April 28th
     which is my first and only paper at present. Although I am
     greatfully anticipating the pleasure of receiving my next
     Defender as I now consider myself a full fledged defender fan and
     I have also requested the representative of said paper to deliver
     my Defender weekly.

     In reading the Defenders want ad I notice that there is lots of
     work to be had and if I havent miscomprehended I think I also
     understand that the transportation is advanced to able bodied
     working men who is out of work and desire work. Am I not right?
     with the understanding that those who have been advanced
     transportation same will be deducted from their salary after they
     have begun work. Now then if this is they proposition I have
     about 10 or 15 good working men who is out of work and are dying
     to leave the south and I assure you that they are working men and
     will be too glad to come north east or west, any where but the
     south.

     Now then if this is the proposition kindly let me know by return
     mail. However I assure you that it shall be my pleasure to
     furnish you with further or all information that you may
     undertake to ask or all information necessary concerning this
     communication.

     Thanking you in advance for the courtesy of a prompt reply with
     much interest, I am

                                   COLUMBUS, GA., April 29, 1917.

     Dear sir: I seen your adds in the paper & after reading I saw
     where I could do some business for you & if you will write & let
     me know promply what you will allow me for heads & let me know
     right away I can get you as many as thirty at once & I know that
     you do not want nothing but able bodied men if you will as soon
     as you get this mail let me know by wireing me & I can get the
     men ready by Thursday wire me as soon as your early convenence.
     will also send you my recamendation that I am a true and reliable
     negro if you take the notion to send the ticket send me money
     emough to feed them until we get there you can estamate about how
     much it will take to feed thirty all of them is anxious to go &
     will go at the word from you please return the recamendation
     back.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 21, 1917.

     Gentlemen: Please have the kindness to let me know if you can
     handle any labor as I wish to come north but would like to know
     just who I am going to work for before starting so as to not be
     there on expences and in the main time I have other friends that
     would like to have a steady imployment while they are unable to
     raise the money for transportation. Let me know what disposition
     you could make in regards to the same.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., May 15, 1917.

     Dear Sir and Brother: I am in the information of your labores
     league and while in this city I have been asked about the
     conditions of work in the north and at the same time we have
     about 300 men here in this city of different trades. Some are
     farmers, mail men iron and stell workers, mechanics and of all
     classes of work. They ask me in their union to find out just the
     conditions of the afair. They wants to know if they can go to
     work in one or two days after they get there? if so some of them
     can pay all of their fair some half and some wants to come on
     conditions. will the company send them a pass and let them pay
     them back weekly? if so I can send 500 more or less in order that
     you may know who I am I will send you some of my papers that you
     may know what I stand for and what I have been taking along,
     please let me hear from you at once and what you think about it.

LETTERS ABOUT LABOR AGENTS

                                   MOBILE, ALA., 4-26-17.

     Dear Sir Bro.: I take great pane in droping you a few lines
     hopeing that this will find you enjoying the best of health as it
     leave me at this time present. Dear sir I seen in the Defender
     where you was helping us a long in securing a posission as
     brickmason plaster cementers stone mason. I am writing to you for
     advice about comeing north. I am a brickmason an I can do cement
     work an stone work. I written to a firm in Birmingham an they
     sent me a blank stateing $2.00 would get me a ticket an pay 10
     per ct of my salary for the 1st month and $24.92c would be paid
     after I reach Detorit and went to work where they sent me to
     work. I had to stay there until I pay them the sum of $24.92c so
     I want to leave Mobile for there, if there nothing there for me
     to make a support for my self and family. My wife is seamstress.
     We want to get away the 15 or 20 of May so please give this
     matter your earnest consideration an let me hear from you by
     return mail as my bro. in law want to get away to. He is a
     carpenter by trade. so please help us as we are in need of your
     help as we wanted to go to Detroit but if you says no we go where
     ever you sends us until we can get to Detroit. We expect to do
     whatever you says. There is nothing here for the colored man but
     a hard time wich these southern crackers gives us. We has not had
     any work to do in 4 wks. and every thing is high to the colored
     man so please let me hear from you by return mail. Please do this
     for your brother.

                                   ANNINSTON, ALA., April 26, 1917.

     Dear sir: Seeing in the Chicago Defender that you wanted men to
     work and that you are not to rob them of their half loaf;
     interested me very much. So much that I am inquiring for a job;
     one for my wife, auntie and myself. My wife is a seamster, my
     auntie a cook I do janitor work or comon labor. We all will do
     the work you give us. Please reply early.

                                   SHREVEPORT, LA., May 22, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I want to get some infirmation about getting out up
     there I did learn that they had a man here agent for to send
     people up there I have never seen him yet and I want you to tell
     me how to get up there. they are passing people out up there that
     are unable to come I would like to hear from you at once from
     your unknown friend.

                                   DERIDDER, LA., April 18, 1917.

     Dear Sir: in regards of helth and all so in need that I am
     riting you these fue lines to day to you. this few lines leves
     famly and I well at the present an doe trus by the help of God
     these will find you the same. Now what I want you to doe for me
     is this will you please give this letter to the Chicago Defender
     printers and I will bee oblige to you. I wood of back this letter
     to the Chicago defenders but they never wood of receve it from
     here.

     I am to day riting you jus a fue lines for infermasion I wil
     state my complant is this. now her is 18 hundred of the colored
     race have paid to a man $2.00 to be transfered to Chicago to
     work, he tel us that thire is great demand in the north for labor
     and wee no it is true bee cors ther is thousands of them going
     from Alabama and fla. and Gergia and all so other states and this
     white man was to send us to Chicago on the 15 of march and eavery
     time we ask him about it he tell us that the companys is not redy
     for us and we all wants to get out of the south, wee herd that
     this man have fould wee people out of this money, wee has a
     duplicate shorn that wee have paid him this money and if ther is
     iny compnys that wants these men and will furnis transpertashion
     for us wil you please notifie me at once bee cors I am tired of
     bene dog as I was a beast and wee will come at wonce. So I will
     bee oblige to you if you will help us out of the south.

                                   LIVE OAK, FLA., 4-25-17.

     Dear sir: I wish to become in touch with you. I have been
     thinking of leaving the south and have had several ofers
     presented to me if only would say I would go and pay down so
     mutch money until a certain date but dont aprove of sutch. Know
     would be glad to have you relate to me weather I can get a job in
     or near the city.

     I am now working at a commission house. Listen there have been
     several crooks out saying they are getting men for difrent works
     in the north, all you had to do pay them $2 or $3 dollars and
     meet him on a certain day and that would be the last. Will you
     relate to me some of the difrent kinds of works & prices.

     Nothing more, I remain.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., April 22, 1917.

     Dear sir: with the greatest of pleasure for me to address you a
     few lines, concerning of labor as I was reading and advertisement
     of yours in the Chicago Defender stateing that those who wish to
     locate in smaller towns with fairly good wages and to bring their
     children up with the best of education will kindly get in touch
     with you. However if you are in a business of that kind it just
     fitted me. While I am a man with a very large family most all are
     boys and it is my desires to get in touch with some good firms to
     works. Kind sir if you are in that kind of position please let me
     hear from you at once I've get no confidence in some of these so
     called agents. Ill be to glad to hear from you at once.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., 12-4-16.

     Dear Sir: While reading Sunday's Defender I read where you was
     coming south looking for labor I see you want intelligent
     industrious men to work in factories so I thought I would write
     and get a little information about it. there are a lot of idle
     men here that are very anxious to come north. every day they are
     fooled about go and see the man. pleanty of men have quit thier
     jobs with the expectation of going but when they go the man that
     is to take them cant be found. last week there was a preacher
     giving lecturers on going. took up collection and when the men
     got to the depot he could not be found, so if you will allow me
     the privaledge I can get you as many men as you need that are
     hard working honest men that will be glad to come. I will send
     you these names and address if you will send for them to come.
     there is not work here every thing is so high what little money
     you make we have to eat it up. so if what I say to you is
     agreeable please answer.

LETTERS ABOUT THE GREAT NORTHERN DRIVE OF 1917

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., 4-21-17.

     Sir: You will please give us the names of firms where we can
     secure employment. Also please explain the Great Northern Drive
     for May 15th. We will come by the thousands. Some of us like farm
     work. The colored people will leave if you will assist them.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., April 25, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Would you kindely advise me of a good place where I
     can get a good job out in some of the small places from Chicago
     about 50 or 60 miles. I am expecting to leave the south about the
     15th of May and will bring my family later on. Answer soon.

                                   PASS CHRISTIAN, MISS., April 30, 1917.

     Sir: I want to come north on 15th of May, & I would like to get
     a job at once. & if you will please locate one for me & let me
     know in return mail & oblige. Will except a job on farm or in
     town. I have a little education & I am aquainted with work all
     right. Hope to here from you soon.

                                   MOBILE, ALA., April 25, 1917.

     Sir: I was reading in theat paper atoout the Colored race and
     while reading it I seen in it where cars would be here for the 15
     of May which is one month from to day. Will you be so kind as to
     let me know where they are coming to and I will be glad to know
     because I am a poor woman and have a husband and five children
     living and three dead one single and two twin girls six months
     old today and my husband can hardly make bread for them in
     Mobile. This is my native home but it is not fit to live in just
     as the Chicago Defender say it says the truth and my husband only
     get $1.50 a day and pays $7.50 a month for house rent and can
     hardly feed me and his self and children. I am the mother of 8
     children 25 years old and I want to get out of this dog hold
     because I dont know what I am raising them up for in this place
     and I want to get to Chicago where I know they will be raised and
     my husband crazy to get there because he know he can get more to
     raise his children and will you please let me know where the cars
     is going to stop to so that he can come where he can take care of
     me and my children. He get there a while and then he can send for
     me. I heard they wasnt coming here so I sent to find out and he
     can go and meet them at the place they are going and go from
     there to Chicago. No more at present. hoping to hear from you
     soon from your needed and worried friend.

                                   MONTGOMERY, ALA., May 7, 1917.

     My dear Sir: I am writing to solicit your aid and advice as to
     how I may best obtain employment at my trade in your city. I
     shall be coming that way on the 15th of May and I wish to find
     immediate employment if possible.

     I have varied experience as a compositor and printer. Job
     composition is my hobby. I have not experience as linotype
     operator, but can fill any other place in a printing office.
     Please communicate with me at the above address at once. Thanking
     you in advance for any assistance and information in the matter.

                                   ROME, GA., May 13, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I am writing you in regards to present conditions in
     Chicago in getting employment. I am an experienced hotel man--in
     all departments, such as bellman, waiter, buss boy, or any other
     work pertaining to hotel and would like to know in return could
     you furnish me transportation to Chicago as you advertise in the
     Chicago Defender. Am good honest and sober worker, can furnish
     recermendations if necessary. Have worked at the Palmer House
     during year 1911 as bus boy in Cafe. But returned South for
     awhile and since the Northern Drive has begun I have decided to
     return to Chicago as I am well acquainted with the city. Hope to
     hear from you soon on this matter as it is of great importance to
     me.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., 4-23-17.

     Dear Editor: I am a reader of the Defender and I am askeso much
     about the great Northern drive on the 15th of May. We want more
     understanding about it for there is a great many wants to get
     ready for that day & the depot agents never gives us any
     satisfaction when we ask for they dont want us to leave here, I
     want to ask you to please publish in your next Saturdays paper
     just what the fair will be on that day so we all will know & can
     be ready. So many women here are wanting to go that day. They are
     all working women and we cant get work here so much now, the
     white women tell us we just want to make money to go North and we
     do so please kindly ans. this in your next paper if you do I will
     read it every word in the Defender, had rather read it then to
     eat when Saturday comes, it is my hearts delight & hope your
     paper will continue on in the south until every one reads it for
     it is a God sent blessing to the Race. Will close with best
     wishes.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., May 2, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Please Sir will you kindly tell me what is meant by
     the great Northern Drive to take place May the 15th on tuesday.
     It is a rumor all over town to be ready for the 15th of May to go
     in the drive. the Defender first spoke of the drive the 10th of
     February. My husband is in the north already preparing for our
     family but hearing that the excursion will be $6.00 from here
     north on the 15 and having a large family, I could profit by it
     if it is really true. Do please write me at once and say is there
     an excursion to leave the south. Nearly the whole of the south is
     getting ready for the drive or excursion as it is termed. Please
     write at once. We are sick to get out of the solid south.

LETTERS CONCERNING WHICH SECRECY WAS ENJOINED

                                   ORANGE CITY, FLA., May 4, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Being a reader of the Chicago Defender, I finds a
     add, stateing laborers wanted. I would like to ask if the add is
     refering to persons of that state only. Could a person secure a
     position until he could reach said state?

     Now if you would answer this letter of information I would highly
     appreciate it. During your letter please give information about
     advanced transportation, etc. This is not as a testimony--don't
     publish.

                                   MEMPHIS, TENN., June 1, 1917.

     Sir: as I being one of the readers of your great News paper and
     if I am not to imposeing I want to ask you this information as to
     what steps I should take to secure a good position as a first
     class automobeal blacksmith or any kind pretaining to such and to
     say that I have been opporating a first class white shop here for
     quite a number of years one of the largest in the south and if I
     must say the only colored man in the city that does.

     now I never knew any other way to find out as I want to leave the
     south and I feel very much confidential that you would give
     information if in your power. So if you know of such why please
     inform me at your leasure time. Any charges why notify me in
     return but do not publish.

                                   VICKSBURG, MISS., May 2, 1917.

     Sir: I am a reader of the Chicago Defender I am asking you a
     little information. So many people are leaving south for north
     and it is too big families and we want to come north or middle
     west for better wages. We all have trade and if you think we all
     can get position just as we get north if not the middle west.
     Better please dont publish this is no paper. here is a stamp
     envelop for reply.

                                   LAUREL, MISS., 4-30-17.

     Dear Sir: In reading your defender paper every week find every
     thing so true makes me want to come more every day. so i am
     thinking of coming in a few days decided to write you in regards
     to getting a job that will suit my age. I am 48 years old am in
     very good helth and likes to work just like the days come. Have
     farm the biggest position of my life untill seven years ago. i
     follow publick work untill now would not like for my name to be
     publish in the paper.

                                   FULLERTON, LA., May 7, 1917.

     Dear sir: This comes to inform you that I would like very much
     to come up and locate in your town, but would like to have a
     little advise before I leave the sunny south. I am a railroad man
     by trade. Of course I am a Colored man but I have been Conductor
     for the G. & S. R. Ry. of the past eight years. I have acted as
     yard master, and manager of the switch engine and had charge of
     the local freight department. Please advise if you think I can
     secure a fairly good paying position up there and I am ready to
     come up and take hold. I can furnish good reference, and have my
     own typewriter and equipment.

     I am not particular about working for the rail-road, but I would
     like to get something respectable if possible.

     I think my reference will satisfy the most interogator. Kindly
     advise privately and do not publish.

                                   GREENVILLE, MISS., May 12, 1917.

     Dear sir: Please inform me as to wether there is imployment for
     col. insurance agents by Company as industrial writers sick and
     acc. and deth if thair is such co. handling coolored agents in
     Chicago or suburban towns, please see suptender as to wether he
     could youse a good relible live agent. I am contemplating moving
     to Ill. This is confidential.

     My experience as ins. agent 15 year industrial and ord. life and
     prefered.

LETTERS EMPHASIZING RACE WELFARE

                                   AUGUST, GA., May 12, 1917.

     Dear Sir: Just for a little infermation from you i would like
     to know wheather or not i could get in tuch with some good people
     to work for with a firm because things is afful hear in the south
     let me here from you soon as poseble what ever you do dont
     publish my name in your paper but i think peple as a race oguht
     to look out for one another as Christians friends i am a
     schuffur and i cant make a living for my family with small pay
     and the people is getting so bad with us black peple down south
     hear. now if you ever help your race now is the time to help me
     to get my family away. food stuf is so high. i will look for
     answer by return mail, dont publish my name if your paper but let
     me hear from you at once.

                                   DELAND, FLA., 5/1. 17.

     Dear sir: I being onknon to you in personnal but by reading the
     Chicago Defender I notice in its ad that there is chance for all
     kind of imployment that a men that will work can get and as I am
     one of the negro race that dont mind working study so it is
     understand that you will please let me no as to wheather you can
     place me in some of those positions for I sopose to be in this
     town about 5 more weeks. after leving her stopping in Savannah my
     home city to see my too bro. and mother I will then leve for the
     northern states I will thank you for some information.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., May 1, 1917.

     Dear sir: i am a reader of the Chicago defender and i seen in
     the defender that you are interrested in the well fair of the
     colored people those of the classe that is interested in
     themselves and coming to the north for a better chance so i take
     pleashure in riting to you that i may get some under standing
     about conditions of getting work as i see that you are in turch
     with the foundrys warehouses and the manufacturing concerns that
     is in need of laborers and i thought it was best to rite you and
     get some understanding as it is 4 of us expecting to leave here
     in a few days to come north but we are not coming for pleasure we
     are looking for wirk and better treatment and more money and i
     ask your aid in helping us to secure a good position of work as
     we are men of familys and we canot aford to loaf and i will be
     very glad to hear from you and an my arival i will call at your
     place to see you.

                                   COLUMBIA, S. C., May 7, 1917.

     Dir sur: i saw in one of our colord papers your ad i now seat
     my selft to seak work thru your ade of which i beleve is ernest
     devotion to our betterment i am a brick layer and plastrer i rite
     to no if i can get or you can get work for me please let me know
     detales plese.

                                   MEMPHIS, TENN., 4-23-17.

     Gentlemen: I want to get in tuch with you in regard of a good
     location & a job I am for race elevation every way. I want a job
     in a small town some where in the north where I can receive verry
     good wages and where I can educate my 3 little girls and demand
     respect of intelegence. I prefer a job as cabinet maker or any
     kind of furniture mfg. if possible.

     Let me hear from you all at once please. State minimum wages and
     kind of work.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., May 2, 1917.

     Dear sir: I am writing you a few lines seacking information
     about some work as i was read a Chicago Defender i saw where
     labarers wanted very much I am a labarer now have not no work
     here to do i am married man have one child and would like for yo
     to give me work to do anything I am well expereinced in ware
     house and foundry and if there any way for you to fearnish me a
     transportation to come at once do i can go so i can make my
     family a desen living you will please let me know and if you
     would help a poor need man i am willing to come any time if I had
     the money i would pay my own way but i realy ain got it so i am
     asking you to please do this for me i am realy in need if you can
     do a poor negro any good please do this for me.

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., April 25, 1917.

     My dear Sir: I noticed an anticle in the Chicago Defender that
     officers and members of your organization officer to assist any
     member of the race to secure steady employment in small cities
     near Chicago. I am verry anxious to secure a job the year round
     at any kind of honest work, trusting that I may hear from you at
     an early date, I beg to remain.

                                   ATLANTA, GA., April 11, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I am a reader of you paper and we are all crazy about
     it and take it every Saturday and we raise a great howl when we
     dont get it. Now since I see and feel that you are for the race
     and are willing to assist any one so I will ask you to please
     assist me in getting imployment and some place to stop with some
     good quiet people or with a family that would take some one to
     live with them. I will do any kind of work. I am a hair dresser
     but I will do any kind of work I can get to do I am a widow and
     have one child a little girl 6 years years old I dont know any
     body there so if you can assist me in any way will be greatly
     appreciated now this letter is personal please dont print it in
     your paper. I hope to hear from you soon.

                                   ROME, GA., April 28, 1917.

     My dear Northern friend: I saw in the Chicago Defender where
     llabors are wanted I am sure a man that wants to get out of the
     south and would do most any kind of work I has a wife she works
     all the time We has a boy age 13 years he has been working with
     me 5 years I has been working at the pipe shop 11 year but I can
     do other work you said you will sind a transportation after
     labores please send after me I can get 10 more mens if you want
     them. ans. soon so that I will no what to do but I hope you will
     say yes. hope you will say get the mens and let us sind for you
     all I am a man woks all the time I has a wife and 4 childrens.

                                   HOUSTON, TEX., April 27, 1917.

     Dear Sirs: I am a reader of the Chicago Defender and I seen
     where you are in need of men and are also in the position for
     firms to seek you. I see where you are in the lines of work for
     the betterment of the race.

                                   NEW ORLEANS, LA., April 22, 1917.

     Dear sir: in reading the defender I seen where this was an
     oportunity for work, for the betterment of the race. Just out of
     the city and i thought to get in touch with you to see if their
     would be a chance for me an my brother, i dident no if you meant
     any one this far from Chicago or not but i rite to find out. but
     i hope you will except me please and let me no your wages, i hope
     to hear from you and if you will except me i can pick you up some
     responseful families mens but if you dont want them take me
     because i wants work, so good by.

                                   SHERMAN, GA., Nov. 28, 1916.

     Dear sir: This letter comes to ask for all infirmations concern
     emplyoment in your conection in the warmest climate. Now I am in
     a family of (11) eleven more or less boys and girls (men and
     women) mixed sizes who want to go north as soon as arrangements
     can be made and employment given places for shelter an so en
     (etc) now this are farming people they were raised on the farm
     and are good farm hands I of course have some experence and
     qualefication as a coman school teacher and hotel waiter and
     along few other lines.

     I wish you would write me at your first chance and tell me if you
     can give us employment at what time and about what wages will you
     pay and what kind of arrangement can be made for our shelter.
     Tell me when can you best use us now or later.

     Will you send us tickets if so on what terms and at what price
     what is the cost per head and by what route should we come. We
     are Negroes and try to show ourselves worthy of all we may get
     from any friendly source we endeavor to be true to all good
     causes, if you can we thank you to help up to come north as soon
     as you can.

                                   SAVANNAH, GA., 4/21/17/

     Dear Sir: I was very much impressed when I read the Defender
     where you are taking so much interest securing jobs for the race
     from the south. Please secure a job for man & wife in some small
     town and write me all information at once.

                                   KISSIMMEE, FLA., May 1, 1917.

     Dear Sir: I am a subscriber for the Chicago Defender have read
     of the good work you are doing in employing help for your large
     factories and how you are striving to help get the better class
     of people to the north. I am a teacher and have been teaching
     five years successful, and as our school here has closed my
     cousin and I have decided to go north for the summer who is also
     a teacher of this county. I am writing you to secure for us a
     position that we could fit and one that would fit us, if there be
     any that is vacant.

     We can furnish you with the best of reference. We would not like
     to advertise through a paper. Hoping to hear from you at an early
     date, I am

                                   SANFORD, FLA., 4-29-17.

     Dear sir: as a member of the Race who desire to join in and
     with and be among the better side of our Race I ask that you
     surcue me a job and have me a ticket sent or please send
     transportation fees at once. Write soon as I will watch for
     answer from you.

                                   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., 4/29/17.

     Dear sir: i was reading the Chicago Defender to day and i find
     that you is mutch enterrested in our negro race i have sevrul
     years in laundry business as a wash man and stationery boilers
     fireing at this time i have charge of wash room, i am a fire man
     and all so a laundry wash man too. hopeing that you will do all
     you can for me in getting a plase of theas persisons please giv
     this your attenson estateing salery per week pleas let me heare
     from you soon i remain yours truly

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., May 1, 1917.

     dear sirs: I sene in Defender wher more positions open then men
     for them I am colord an do woork hard for my living an dont mind
     it is not no bad habits I work but dont get but small wedges I am
     up bilder of my colord race an love to help one when he dezirs to
     better his condishon I want to ast you for a favor of helping me
     to get to you an your office to get me a woork to do I want to
     learn a trade and I will pay you to look out for me an get me a
     job if you kindly will. Please an send me 3 tickets as we three
     good woorking mens make the time you can corleck ever weeak pay
     for yo at once be cause we meanse buisness now.

                                   MONTGOMERY, ALA., May 19, 1917.

     Dear sir: I notice in the Chicago defender that you are working
     to better the condiction of the colored people of the south. I am
     a member of the race & want too come north for to better the
     condiction of my famely I have five children my self and a wife &
     I want you to seek for me a job please. I will send you the trade
     I follows while here in the south. I works in the packing houses
     & also wholesale grocers houses. Either one I can do but I rather
     the packing the best. you can get a half of dozen womens from
     here that want work & wants information about jobs such as
     cooking, nurseing & cleaning up or anything else they can do.

                                   PENSACOLA, FLA., April 13, 1917.

     Dear sur: I ritting to you in order to get in touch with you
     about the work for the betterment of the race I shure want to
     better my condeshon in the Chicago Defender I seen whear that you
     say those wishing to locate in smaller towns with fairly good
     wages that what I want to suner the better for me. Answer at
     wonce.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Collected under the direction of Emmett J. Scott.

BOOK REVIEWS

A Century of Negro Migration. By CARTER G. WOODSON. The Association for the Study of Negro
Life and History, Washington, D. C. Pp. 221.

The increasingly numerous articles, inquiries and investigations into the nature, extent, causes
and results of the recent migratory movement among the Negroes in America demonstrate the great
interest which has been manifested in this subject. At a period when so much personal opinion,
ill-digested information and controversial literature, on racial problems are being flung at
the public, it is a real pleasure for the sincere student of human affairs to welcome such
an instructive work as this both because of its point of view and its valuable research. This
volume is an unusual contribution in this field. It is an historical treatise, a study in economic
progress and a survey of contemporary movements. As suggested by its title, the book examines
with scholarly comprehension the continued migrations of the nineteenth century. The point
of view which the volume presents is that of the new historical school, which holds that movements
of the present have their roots in the past; and the present may not be properly understood
without comprehending the foundations of the past. The book is replete with facts organized
and interpreted with a scientific spirit, and the discussions are modern and scholarly.

After reading the book one ceases to speak of "a" migration, or of "the" migration, for Negro
migration ceases to be a new development. It becomes an old movement, begun a century ago,
but now heightened and intensified by the factors growing out of the World War. The author
in his preface especially disclaims any distinctly new contribution of fact. The specific value
of the volume rests then in its collection of isolated historical data culled from many known
sources, and its presentation of a new vantage ground from which the whole subject may be regarded.
An introductory section on the migrations at the close of the eighteenth century and in the
opening years of the nineteenth century leads to the main chapters which follow under the headings:
A Transplantation to the North; Fighting it out on Free Soil; Colonization as a Remedy for
Migration; The Successful Migrant; Confusing Movements; The Exodus to the West; The Migration
of the Talented Tenth, and The Exodus during the World War.

In the discussion of the Successful Migrant much information is given us of individuals who
succeeded by sheer grit in making their way to freedom, and in some cases in building neat
fortunes for themselves and their families. The charge that the Negro appears to be naturally
migratory, an assertion which comes to light in recent studies in economic progress, is declared
untrue. To the reviewer, this statement, typical of others, seems to be the more reasonable
conclusion from the facts, which others regard as only facts and by inference as racial tendencies.
In the majority of instances the author finds, as other investigators have found, that the
migrants belonged to the intelligent laboring class.

The best discussion is given in the closing chapter on The Exodus during the World War. This
is made to differ from other migrations on the ground that the Negro has opportunity awaiting
him, whereas formerly he had "to make a place for himself upon arriving among enemies." The
effects upon the whites and the Negroes, North and South, are noted with unbiased attitude.
The perspective of the trained historian appears to have its influence in this section. The
earlier chapters are concerned primarily with the Negro in the Northwest, and so completely
does the information center in this section of the country that it appears easily possible
to expand this part into a larger work treating this phase in particular. The author's comment
and criticism are suggestive to both races and particularly to the Negroes who furnish the
subject-matter of the book. The book will have not only historical interest, but it will serve
to point out the paramount unsettled condition of the race problem during the past century
and the disturbing future which must face America. The volume is heartily commended to all
readers and students, and it cannot fail to be informing upon this unsettled aspect of Negro
life and history. No serious student should be without it.

                                        CHARLES H. WESLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Negro Migration in 1916-17. By R. H. LEAVELL, T.R. SNAVELY, T. J. WOOFTER, JR., W. T. B. WILLIAMS,
and FRANCIS D. TYSON, with an introduction by J. H. DILLARD. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C., 1919. Pp. 158.

This is a report of the Department of Labor issued from the office of the Secretary through
the Division of Negro Economics, under the direction of Dr. George E. Haynes. The task was
divided among a number of investigators. Mr. Leavell directed his attention to the migration
from Mississippi, Mr. Snavely to that from Alabama and North Carolina, and Mr. Woofter to that
from Georgia. Mr. Williams sketches in general the Exodus from the South and Mr. Tyson gives
a survey of the Negro Migrant in the North. Submitted in this condition the report is much
less valuable than it would have been, had the investigation been directed by a single man
to work out of these individual reports a scientific presentation of the whole movement. As
this was not the case, there is found throughout the report numerous duplications of discussions
of causes and effects which might have given place to more valuable information.

The conclusion of Mr. Leavell, himself a Mississippian, as to measures for the rehabilitation
of Mississippi labor conditions, are very interesting. He believes that a permanent surplus
of Negro laborers outside of the upper delta can be created by reorganizing agriculture with
emphasis on live stock and forage, that this surplus could then be directed to the delta and
to Arkansas so far as needed for producing cotton and food stuffs, that the balance of this
surplus labor should be drawn permanently to northern industries, and that the older communities
along the Mississippi could attract the necessary additional labor from the surplus created
in the hills. He believes also that there should be schools emphasizing education toward the
farm, fair dealing in all business transactions, equal treatment in the distribution of public
utilities, equal treatment in the courts and the encouragement of Negro farm ownership, the
abolition of the fee system in courts of justice, the insistence of white public opinion on
full settlement with Negroes on plantations, and, above all else, that the fundamental need
is for frequent and confidential conferences upon community problems and for active cooperation
between the local leaders of the two races.

Mr. Snavely counts among the causes of the migration from Alabama and North Carolina, the changed
conditions incident to the transition from the old system of cotton planting to stock raising
and the diversification of crops. Mr. Williams undertakes to estimate the size of the exodus,
some of its effects and the initial remedies for keeping the Negroes in the South. Some of
these are better pay, greater care for the employees, better educational facilities, the opportunity
to rent and purchase sanitary homes, justice in the courts, the abolition of "jim crowism"
and segregation.

One of the most interesting parts of the report is that which deals with the Negro migrant
in the North. It is doubtful, however, that the author has done his task so well as Mr. Epstein
did in treating intensively the same situation in Pittsburgh. This part of the report is too
brief to cover the field adequately. There are few statistics taken from the censuses of 1900
and 1910 to show the increase of Negro population in the North during this period. Then comes
a rapid survey of the districts receiving large numbers of Negroes during the migration. Attention
is directed also to the adjustment of the Negroes to northern industry, race friction and the
bearing of the Negro migration on the labor movement culminating in the riot of East St. Louis.
Delinquency in the migrant population and the reports on the crime, health and housing conditions
of the Negroes in the North are also discussed. That part of the report on constructive efforts
toward adjustment of the migrant population in the North gives much information as to how the
leading citizens of both races have coöperated in trying to solve the problems resulting from
this sudden shifting of large groups of people.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty-Five Years in the Black Belt. By WILLIAM J. EDWARDS. The Cornhill Company, Boston, 1918.
Pp. 143.

This is a valuable biographical work in that the reader gets a view of conditions in the South
as experienced and viewed by a Negro educated at Tuskegee and inspired thereby to spend his
life in another part of the State of Alabama, doing what he learned at this institution. The
author mentions his growth, the founding of the Snow Hill School, the assistance of the Jeannes
Fund, and the ultimate solutions of his more difficult problems. The book becomes more interesting
when he discusses the Negro problem, the exodus of the blacks and the World War.

The aim of the author, however, is to acquaint the public with the problems and difficulties
confronting those who labor for the future of the Negro race. He complains of the land tenure,
the credit system by which the Negroes become indebted to their landlords, the lack of educational
facilities, and the consequent ignorance of the masses of the race. To enlist support to remedy
these evils wherever this condition obtains, the life of the author who for twenty-five years
has had to struggle against hardships is hereby presented as typical of the thousands of teachers
white and black now suffering all but martyrdom in the South that the Negroes may after all
have a chance to toil upward.

The book is not highly literary. The style is generally rough. Interesting facts appear here
and there, but they did not reach the stage of organization in passing through the author's
mind. The value of the book, however, is not materially diminished by its style. It certainly
reflects the feelings and chronicles the deeds of a large group of the American people during
one of the most critical periods of our history and must therefore be read with profit by those
interested in the strivings of the people of low estate. Persons primarily concerned with industrial
education will find this sketch unusually valuable. To throw further light on this systematic
effort to elevate the Negroes of Alabama the author has given numerous illustrations. Among
these are Uncle Charles Lee and His Home in the Black Belt, Partial View of the Snow Hill Institute,
A New Type of Home in the Black Belt, Typical Log Cabin in the Black Belt, the Home of a Snow
Hill Graduate, Graduates of Snow Hill Institute and Teachers of Snow Hill Institute.

       *       *       *       *       *

Women of Achievement. By BENJAMIN BRAWLEY. Woman's American Baptist Home Mission Society, Chicago,
1919. Pp. 92.

Glancing at the title of this volume one would expect to find therein the sketches of a number
of women of color known to be useful in the uplift of the Negro race. Instead of this, however,
there is the disappointment in tho restriction of these sketches to Harriet Tubman, Nora Gordon,
Meta Warrick Fuller, Mary McLeod Bethune, and Mary Church Terrell. No one will question the
claims of some of these women to honorable mention, but when Nora Gordon, an unknown but successful
missionary to Africa, is given precedence to the hundreds of women of color who have influenced
thought and contributed to the common good of the race and country the historian must call
for an explanation.

It is equally clear that in choosing the other four of these women as representative of the
achievements of their race the biographer has done other distinguished women of the Negro race
considerable injustice, if his book is to be taken seriously. Harriet Tubman was truly a great
character and her life is an interesting chapter in the history of this country. Meta Warrick
Fuller has distinguished herself in art and so have several other women of color. Mary McLeod
Bethune is generally considered an enterprising educator and public spirited woman, but one
can here raise the question as to whether she leads her companions. Mary Church Terrell has
very well established herself as an acceptable speaker on the race problem and so have many others.

In giving the facts which entitle these characters to honorable mention the author did not
do his task well. He mentioned too few incidents in the lives of these persons to make them
interesting. In other words, instead of presenting facts to speak for themselves the author
too easily yielded to the temptation to indulge in mere eulogy. These mistakes cannot be excused,
even if the book is intended for children. On the whole, however, the work indicates effort
in the right direction and it is hoped that more extensive and numerous sketches of women of
achievement of the Negro race may be found in the literature of our day.

NOTES

At the close of this the fourth year of its existence the Association for the Study of Negro
Life and History convened in biennial session in Washington, D. C., on the 17th and 18th of
June at the 12th Street Branch Y. M. C. A. The reports for the year were heard, new officers
were elected, and the plans for the coming year were formulated. The proceedings in full will
appear in the October number.

The chief interest of the meeting centered around the informing addresses on the Negro in the
World War. Every phase of the war history which the Negro helped to make was treated.

The Association worked out also the plans by which it will collect data to write a scientific
History of the Negro in the World War just as soon as the treaty of peace is signed and documents
now inaccessible because of the proximity to the conflict become available. The coöperation
of all seekers after the truth is earnestly solicited.

During the past two years the Association has been able to move steadily forward in spite of
the difficulties incident to the war. The subscriptions to the JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY have
gradually increased and a number of philanthropists have liberally contributed to the fund
now being used to extend the work into all parts of the country. This work is being done by
a Field Agent who organizes clubs for the study of Negro life and history and, through local
agents, sells the publications of the Association and solicits subscriptions to the JOURNAL
OF NEGRO HISTORY.

In addition to publishing for four years the JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY, a repository of truth
now available in bound form, the association has brought out also Slavery in Kentucky, an interesting
portraiture of the institution in that State; The Royal Adventurers Trading into Africa, one
of the best studies of the early slave trade; and A Century of Negro Migration, the only scientific
treatment of this movement hitherto published.

