The overseer of one of the workhouses in the vicinity of London is to receive an additional
four pounds a year in place of beer. It is hoped that this sum will buy him a nice glass of
stout for his next Christmas dinner.

       ***

In justice to the thieves who removed 1-1/2 cwt. of sugar from a grocer's shop in Kentish Town
it should be stated that had it not been for an untimely alarm it was their intention to have
taken a sufficient quantity of other articles to justify their appropriation of that amount
of sugar.

       ***

    "Only the older generation recalls the glass of sherry and slice of
    Madeira that used to be the invariable refreshment offered in the
    farmhouses of the Southwest."--Daily Telegraph.

Our own recollection is that it was sometimes a glass of Madeira and a hunk of sherry.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SCHOOL FOR STATESMEN.

    [The Hamburger Fremdenblatt, in an article on our Ambassador at
    Petrograd, ascribes his success as a diplomat to his passion for golf--
    "if one can speak of passion in connection with this cold game of
    meadow billiards." "The conditions," it goes on to say, "in which this
    rather tiresome game is played do really produce the qualities
    necessary for any statesmanlike or diplomatic work.... Silent, tough,
    resigned, unbroken ... the good golfer walks round his field, keeps his
    eye on the ball and steers for his goal.... Sir George Buchanan walked
    round the whole golf field of Europe for years until at last he was
    able in Petrograd to hurl the ball into the goal."]

  Oft have I wondered as my weapon's edge
    Disintegrated solid chunks of greenery,
  Or as my pillule flew the bounding hedge
    Into outlying sections of the scenery,
      What moral value might accrue
      From billiards played beneath the blue.

  Little I fancied when I topped the sphere
    And on its candour left a coarse impression,
  Or in the bed of some revolting mere
    Mislaid three virgin globes in swift succession,
      That I was learning how to grip
      The rudiments of statesmanship.

  Yet so it was. I schooled myself to gaze
    Upon the object with a firmly glued eye,
  And, though I moved by strange and devious ways,
    To keep in view the goal, or finis ludi,
      And ever let my language be
      The language of diplomacy.

  Thus BALFOUR learned the politician's game,
    And thus LLOYD GEORGE was trained to be a Premier;
  Thence many a leader who has leapt to fame
    Got self-control, grew harder, tougher, phlegmier,
      Reared in the virtues which prevail
      At Walton Heath and Sunningdale.

  Golf being then the source of so much good,
    I own my conscience suffers certain wrenches
  Recalling how the links of Chorley Wood
    Have seen me on the Sabbath carving trenches,
      Where Tommies might be taught to pitch
      The deadly bomb from ditch to ditch.

  For I reflect that my intruding spade,
    That blocked the foursome and debarred the single,
  May well have cheeked some statesman yet unmade,
    Some budding HOGGE, some mute inglorious PRINGLE;
      And that is why my shovel shrinks
      From excavating other links.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In reply to your valued inquiry, we enclose illustration of Dining
    Tables of Oak seating fourteen people with round legs and twelve people
    with square legs, with prices attached. Hoping to have your order."--
    The Huntly Express.

Mr. Punch is now engaged upon an exhaustive examination of the extremities of his staff before
deciding whether to replace his existing Round Table.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BRITISH PRESS BACK HUN REARGUARDS."--Newspaper headline.

Happily it is only a small section of the British Press that adopts this unpatriotic attitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE on the FOOD CONTROLLER:--

          "No man's pie is free'd
  From his ambitious finger."--Henry VIII., Act I. Scene I.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEART-TO-HEART TALKS.

(The GERMAN CROWN PRINCE and Marshal HINDENBURG).

Hindenburg. So your Royal Highness proposes to leave us again?

The Prince.Yes, Marshal, I'm going to leave you for a short time. I have made arrangements
which will render my absence from the Front as little disadvantageous as may be possible. My
orders have been carefully drawn up so as to provide for every contingency, and I trust that
nothing the enemy can do will find my stout fellows unprepared, while I am devising fresh triumphs
for them in my temporary retirement.

Hindenburg. We shall all regret the absence of your Royal Highness from those fields in which
you have planted new proofs both of German courage and of German intellectual superiority;
but no doubt your Highness will be all the better for a short rest. May I, perhaps, ask the
immediate cause of your Highness's departure from the Front?

The Prince. No, Marshal, you mustn't, for if you do I shall not answer you fully. (Hums) Souvent
femme varie; fol qui s'y fie--do you know what that means, you rogue?

Hindenburg. I know your Highness spoke in French, which is not what I should have expected
from one who stands so near to the throne.

The Prince. Now, you mustn't be angry; only dull people ever get angry.

Hindenburg. Your Royal Highness means to say--?

The Prince. I mean to say that you're not dull--not really dull, you know, and that therefore
you can't be allowed to get angry about a mere trifle. Besides, our predecessor, the GREAT
FREDERICK, always spoke in French and wrote his poetry in French--very poor stuff it was too--and
had a violent contempt for the German language, which he considered a barbarous jargon.

Hindenburg. I care not what the GREAT FREDERICK may have thought as to this matter--there are
other points in which it might be well to imitate him first rather than to remember what he
thought and said about our noble German language--but for me it is enough to know that the
Emperor and King whom I serve holds no such ideas.

The Prince. Of course he doesn't; he holds no ideas at all of any kind.

Hindenburg. At least he would be angry to hear such--

The Prince. Of course he would; he's dull enough in all conscience for that or anything else.

Hindenburg (after a pause). Your Royal Highness will, perhaps, forgive me if I draw your gracious
attention to the fact that I have much work to do and but little time to do it in.

The Prince. Of course, my dear Marshal, of course. They're making things warm for you, aren't
they, in the direction of Arras? I was saying to myself only this morning, "How annoying for
that poor old HINDENBURG to have his masterly retreat interrupted by those atrocious English,
and to lose thirteen thousand prisoners and one hundred-and-sixty guns, and I don't know how
many killed and wounded. Where's his wall of steel now, poor old fellow, and his patent plan
for luring the enemy on?" That's what I said to myself, and now that we have met I feel that
I must offer you my condolences. I know what it is, though of course it wasn't my fault that
we failed to bring it off against the French at Verdun. Heigho! I'm really beginning to believe
that I shall never see Paris.

Hindenburg. !!!   !!!   !!!

The Prince. You needn't look so stuffy, dear old thing. I'm going. But remember I shall be
your Emperor some day; and then what shall I do with you? I know; I shall have you taught French.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CAUTIONARY TALES FOR THE ARMY.

I.

    Sergt.-Instructor George Bellairs, who imagined himself to be a master
    of strong language.

  Sergt.-Instructor George Bellairs
  Prided himself on dreadful swears,
  And half the night and all the day
  He thought of frightful things to say.
  On his recruits in serried squad
  He'd work them off; he said, "You clod!"
  "You put!" "You closhy put!" (a curse he
  Got from The Everlasting Mercy,
  Which shows one can't take care enough,
  Not knowing who may read one's stuff).
  With joy he saw his victims quiver,
  With wicked joy beheld them shiver.
  Six stretchers in attendance waited
  To carry off the men he slated.

  But early in the War there came
  A squad of men of rowing fame.
  With them, his choicest oaths he found
  Fell upon bored and barren ground.
  He lavished all his hoard, full tale;
  They did not blench, they did not quail.
  His plethora of plums he spilt;
  They did not wince, they did not wilt.
  Poor fellow! As they left him there,
  He heard one beardless boy declare,
  "Jove! what a milk-and-water chap!
  I thought non-coms. had oaths on tap."
  Another said, "We'd soon be fit
  If we were only cursed a bit!"

  Sergt.-Instructor George Bellairs,
  He stands and stares, and stares and stares;
  Then (he who late so freely cursed)
  Tried to express himself and--burst!

       *       *       *       *       *

SPRING FASHIONS FOR MEN.

    "Lord ----, who managed to be present, wore a festive air with a
    button-hole of lilies of the valley."--Ramsey Courier.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "LOST, between Huddersfield and Saddleworth, on the 7th inst, Two Swing
    Doors."--Provincial Paper.

What became of the rest of the storey?

       *       *       *       *       *

The SULTAN has presented the GERMAN KAISER with a sword of honour--"Same I massacred the Armenians,"
as Rawdon Crawley would have said.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The launching of the first great Allied offensive of this year has
    fallen at such a time in the week that it is unfortunately impossible
    to deal with it at all thoroughly in the present number."--Land and
    Water.

Sir DOUGLAS HAIG ought to be more considerate.

       *       *       *       *       *

A RATIONAL QUESTION.

Dear Mr. Punch,--Seeing from your cartoon that you have views of your own on Food Control,
may I put a puzzling case to you? The other evening, after the theatre, I wished to give some
supper to a hungry young soldier friend who any day now may be summoned to France. It was a
quarter past eleven and I led him to a restaurant near Piccadilly Circus which was still open
and busy. But the door-keeper refused to admit him. I might go in--oh, yes--but not a soldier.
Now I am an elderly civilian, doing very little for my country except carrying on my own business
and paying my way and my taxes; but this boy is a fighter, prepared to die for England if need
be. Yet it is I who am allowed to eat at night, and not he, however much in need of food he
may be! Surely there is some want of logic here?

  I am,     Yours faithfully,
      PERPLEXED CIVILIAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "April came in yesterday with none of the mildness
    eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll xfifl vbg emf shr tao hr which is proverbially
    associated with that month."--Glasgow Evening Times.

We can almost hear the printer's teeth chattering.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST LINES.

After having spent an hour or so with WORDSWORTH'S sonnets I found my head so full of his sonorous
adjuratory music that when in the middle of the night I woke as usual--from three to four is
the worst time--my wooing of reluctant sleep took on a new fashion, and instead of repeating
verses I made them. But I only once proceeded farther than the first line. Anybody who finds
pleasure in poetic pains may add the other thirteen; to me such a task would savour of bad
luck. Here, however, are some of my brave Rydalesque beginnings, with titles:--

To the ASSISTANT CONTROLLER of FOOD, wishing him success.

JONES, who wouldst keep potatoes for the poor--

To the Ex-PREMIER, now in very active retirement.

ASQUITH, till recently our honoured head--

To a prominent K.C. who has become First Lord of the Admiralty.

CARSON, who latterly hast taken salt--

To an Ex-Minister for Foreign Affairs, on a bed of sickness.

GREY, who wouldst Represent Proportionally--

To a Second-in-Command.

BONAR, who speakest for the absent GEORGE--

To the PRIME MINISTER, on a notable innovation.

GEORGE, who receivest Yankee journalists--

To the KAISER.

WILHELM, who dost thy damnedst every day--

To the CROWN PRINCE.

Namesake of mine, but O how different!

To an Ex-Colonel.

WINSTON, whose fighting days, alas! seem o'er--

To an assiduous Watcher of the literary skies.

SHORTER, who tellest readers what to think--

I then essayed two lines:--

          To an Incorrigible Wag.

  SHAW, who, in khaki, with that gingery beard,
  Joyous and independent scann'dst the Front--

With this effort I fell asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

DAWN OF HUMOUR IN SCOTLAND.

    "Summer time begins at 2 a.m. on Sunday morning. Clocks should be put
    back an hour on Saturday night."--Ross-shire Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SECRET OF LONGEVITY.

    "The death occurred on Friday of Mr. ----, at the age of 94. Deceased
    had liver through the reigns of George IV., William IV., Victoria,
    Edward VII."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a picture-dealer's advertisement:--

    "Corot got originally 500 francs for his painting of 'The Angelus,'
    which ultimately brought 800,000 francs."--The British Magazine
    (Buenos Aires).

Poor MILLET, it appears, got nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

WEIGHED IN THE BALANCE.

PART I.

Angelo Armstrong was a man of thirty. He had no capital, but by dint of honest and meritorious
toil he found himself eventually earning a moderate salary as clerk in a London Insurance Office.
He had been rejected for the Army on account of a defective knee-cap. Outside his work his
tastes lay in the direction of botany and bibliomancy, which latter, according to the dictionary,
is "Divination performed by selecting passages of Scripture at hazard." He also indulged in
good works and was President of the Society for the Preservation of the Spiritual Welfare of
the Deputy Harbour Masters at our English Seaports. Thus he was worthy of the name of Angelo
by which his mother had insisted that he should be christened, after seeing a picture of the
famous historical incident of "Non Angli sed Angeli."

Strangely enough he had never yet come under the influence of love. The three diversions given
above had filled his spare hours, and woman was to him a sealed book. One morning he found
a letter on his breakfast-table from an old family friend; it read as follows:--

  "Ton Répos," Woking,
  December 11th, 1916.

"DEAR MR. ARMSTRONG,--Do tear yourself away from grimy London and come and spend the Christmas
holidays with us. Only a small party and one of War-workers. We are all workers nowadays, aren't
we? You must come!

  Sincerely yours,
  AUGUSTA POGSON-DELABERE.

N.B.--Our house is a long way from the Crematorium!

This settled it; he decided to go.

PART II.

The Pogson-Delaberes' party at "Ton Répos" consisted of four guests: Col. Maxton, from Aldershot,
commanding the 106th Battalion of the Drumlie Highlanders; Miss Agatha Simson, a middle-aged
munition-worker; our hero, and, oh! the lovely Miss Sylvia Taunton, another War-worker, aged
22. The result may be easily guessed. For two days the young people were left, naturally, very
much together. They quickly fell into an easy intimacy, and on the third and last day of the
holiday Angelo was profoundly in love. Gone were the botanizers, gone the bibliomants, gone
the Deputy Harbour Masters. There was but one thought in his evacuated brain, to make the fair
Sylvia his own.

His opportunity came after dinner that night when the rest of the party had gone out to look
at some condemned pheasants which were to be shot at dawn. She was at the piano playing that
deservedly popular song, "I've chipped my chip for England," by Nathaniel Dayer, when he suddenly
leant over her. "Miss Taunton--Sylvia," he ejaculated, "you will be surprised at this suddenness,
I know, but I cannot keep it in any longer; I love you enormously. Is there any chance for me?"

She had just reached that passage in Nathaniel's song where a triumphant ascending scale in
G rings out. She faltered and played D-flat instead of D-natural, the first dissonance that
night--would it had been the last! Quickly she turned on the music-stool and on him, and spoke
with averted head.

"Mr. Armstrong, I will own frankly that I like you more than a little. Though we only met three
days ago I am more drawn to you than I have ever been to any other man."

"Aha," he cried exultingly.

"But," she said, "I must say something about myself. While I am a War-worker, I have never
told you yet what I am doing. I am a clerk in Marr's Bank, in Cheapside."

"There is nothing dishonourable in that," he almost shouted.

"There is not," she answered, haughtily drawing herself up.

"I keep my account there," he said.

"I know," she replied; "I am in the Pass-book department."

He stood quite still, but the lapels of his dinner-jacket shook slightly.

"My duties," she went on quietly, "are to report each evening to my chief, Mr. Hassets, on
our clients' balances. Yours has never been higher than £24 7s. 9d. during the eighteen months
that I have been there. I am very sorry, but I cannot marry you."

He looked straight into her inscrutable eyes and the right repartee froze on his lips.

On the morrow he left at dawn, just as the birds were beginning to drop; and before the day
was over he had transferred his account from Marr's Bank to Parr's.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "CHAPLAIN ---- ASKS GUIDANCE FOR THE AUTHORITIES.

    Prays that recent events may be prevented."--Baltimore News.

Surely this is asking too much.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "British troops in Macedonia are now in possession of Deltawah and
    Sindiyah, some thirty-five miles north of Bagdad, and of Falluyah on
    the Euphrates, thirty-six miles west of Bagdad."--Sunday Paper.

We know on Fluellen's authority that Macedon and Monmouth are very much alike; and so, it seems,
is Mesopotamia.

       *       *       *       *       *

BACK TO THE LAND.

  The wintry days are with us still;
    The roads are deep in liquid dirt;
  The rain is wet, the wind is chill,
    And both are coming through my shirt;
  And yet my heart is light and gay;
    I shout aloud, I hum a snatch;
  Why am I full of mirth? To-day
    I'm planting my potato patch.

  The KAISER sits and bites his nails
    In Pots- (or some adjoining) dam;
  He wonders why his peace talk fails
    And how to cope with Uncle Sam;
  The General Staff has got the hump;
    In vain each wicked scheme they hatch;
  I've handed them the final thump
    By planting my potato patch.

  The U-boat creeps beneath the sea
    And puts the unarmed freighters down;
  It fills the German heart with glee
    To see the helpless sailors drown;
  But now and then a ship lets fly
    To show that Fritz has met his match!
  She's done her bit, and so have I
    Who dig in my potato patch.

  And later, when the War is won
    And each man murmurs, "Well, that's that,"
  And reckons up what he has done
    To put the Germans on the mat,
  I'll say, "It took ten myriad guns
    And fighting vessels by the batch;
  But we too served, we ancient ones,
    Who dug in our potato patch."

ALGOL.

       *       *       *       *       *

"IT."

PHASE I.

The doctor says, perfectly cheerfully and as though it were really not a matter of vital importance,
that there is no doubt that I have got IT. He remarks that IT is all over the place, and that
he has a couple of hundred other cases at the present time.

I resent his attitude as far as I have strength to do anything at all. I did not give permission
for him to be called in just to have my sufferings brushed aside like this. He only stays about
three minutes altogether, during which time he relates two funny stories (at least I suppose
they are funny, because my nurse laughs; I can't see any point in them myself), and makes several
futile remarks about the War. As though the War were a matter of importance by comparison!
Then he goes, talking breezily all the way down the stairs.

Well, I think darkly, they will be sorry presently. I have no intention or expectation of getting
better, and when they see me a fair young corpse then they'll know.

Already I loathe the Two Hundred. Not that I believe for a minute the story of my own disease
being the same as their miserable little complaints. In recurring periods of conscious thought
I go through the list of things I know for a fact I have got--rheumatic fever, sciatica, lumbago,
toothache, neuritis, bronchitis, laryngitis, tonsilitis, neuralgia, gastritis, catarrh of several
kinds, heart disease and inflammation (or possibly congestion) of the lungs. I shall think
of some more presently, if my nurse will let me alone and not keep on worrying me with her
"Just drink this." Bother the woman! Why doesn't she get off the earth? What's the use of my
swallowing that man's filthy medicine when he doesn't know what's the matter with me?

I hate everybody and everything, especially the eider-down quilt, which rises in slow billows
in front of my eyes and threatens to engulf me. When in a paroxysm of fury I suddenly cast
it on the floor, it lies there still billowing, and seems to leer at me. There is something
fat and sinister and German about that eiderdown. I never noticed it before. Two Hundred German
eider-downs!

The firelight flickers weirdly about the room and I try to count the shadows. But before I
begin I know the answer--TWO HUNDRED.

I drift into a nightmare of Two Hundred elusive cabbages which I am endeavouring to plant in
my new allotment, where a harsh fate forces me to dig and dig and DIG, and, as a natural consequence,
also to ache and ache and ACHE.

PHASE II.

I can stand up with assistance from the bed-post and totter feebly to an arm-chair by the fire,
where I sit in a dressing-gown and weep. What for? I couldn't say, except that it seems a fit
and proper thing to do.

I am still of opinion that I am not long for this world, and my favourite occupation at present
is counting up the number of wreaths that I might justifiably expect to have sent to my funeral.
I don't tell my nurse, who would immediately try to "cheer me up" by talking to me or giving
me a magazine to look at. And I would much rather count wreaths. The Smiths probably would
not be able to afford one....

My thoughts are distracted by the sudden apparition of a little meal. I begin to take an interest
in these little meals, which are of such frequent occurrence that I am reduced to tears again,
this time at the thought of the extra expense I am causing. And all for nothing. Why don't
they save the money for wreaths?

The doctor comes while I am swallowing my egg, miserably yet with a certain gusto, and I dry
my eyes hastily as I hear him bounding up the stairs.

"Hullo," he calls out before he is well through the door, "how are we to-day, eh? Beginning
to sit up and take notice? I think we'll change your medicine."

"I think," I remark resignedly, "that it will be best for someone to dig a hole and bury me."

"Jolly good idea," he agrees heartily. "In fact why not do it to all of us? Please the Germans
so too. But it can't be done, you know--there's a shortage of grave-diggers."

Heartless brute!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "By fixing five potatoless days hope is entertained that supplies,
    which are scent, will be left to poor people who most require them."--
    Daily Chronicle.

This explains the remark of the Irishman who protested that it was weeks since he had tasted
even "the smell of a potato."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It will take years to cleanse the Ægean stables."--Civil and Military
    Gazette.

Still, M. VENEZELOS has made a good beginning with Samos, Lemnos and several other 'osses.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the report of a prohibition meeting at Peebles:--

    "A pleasant and most enjoyable addendum was a series of lantern slides
    depicting the havoc wrought by the Huns in Belgium."--Peebleshire
    Advertiser.

It is still "Peebles for pleasure" at any cost.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HINDENBURG LINE.

In our earnest endeavour to discover exactly where this impregnable barrier is likely to be
encountered we have collected the following references to it in the German Press of the next
few months:--

... Our troops, according to plan, are now operating to the east of the Vimy Ridge where the
fighting is taking the direction intended by us. We have succeeded in restoring a condition
of voluntary elasticity, preparatory to the occupation of the famous Hindenburg Line, which
covers Douai, St. Quentin and La Fère.

... Our rearguard actions to the east of St. Quentin are developing in accordance with our
wildest dreams, our troops, after their brief respite in the so-called Wotan Line, displaying
their ability in a war of rapid movement. The hesitating British are disconcerted by the recrudescence
of fluidity on the front. We learn with satisfaction that our Northern divisions are now safely
established in the Hindenburg Line--to the east of Douai.

... We learn to-day with the very keenest emotion of the complete and brilliant evacuation
of the Siegfried Line, to the east of Douai, and the re-establishment of a new measure of liquidity.
British aeroplanes (of which 133 have been brought down according to plan) have been making
long flights over our territory with a view to observation of the Hindenburg Line--on the left
bank of the Meuse. It is said that two of our machines are missing, but a recount has been
ordered. There must be some mistake.

... A shrewd blow has been dealt to the British by our abandonment, in agreement with the prospectus,
of the Beckmesser Line. All has gone according to our hopes, our longings and our prayers.
We have crossed the Meuse.

... The secret is out at last. The Hindenburg Line, about which there has been so much speculation,
is now known to run through Liége, Luxemburg and Metz. According to schedule we are now approaching
this position, which has only been attained by an amazing display of spontaneous volatility
on our part. The fighting of the last few weeks, in the neighbourhood of the Pogner, Sieglinda,
Kurvenal and Lohengrin Lines, fell out as had been prognosticated by us.

... The importance of Cologne, as the main bastion of the impregnable Hindenburg Line, cannot
be over-rated. Our strategical, voluntary and gratuitous crossing of the Rhine was carried
out according to agenda....

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IMPERFECT ECONOMIST.

  "I wear my very oldest suits,
  I go about in shocking boots,
  And (bar potatoes) feed on roots
  And various cereal substitutes
  For wheat, and non-imported fruits.
  No meat my table now pollutes,
  But, though I spare warm-blooded brutes,
  I sometimes sup on frogs and newts.

  I often spend laborious days
  Supported by a little maize;
  And rice prepared in divers ways
  My appetite at luncheon stays.
  From sugar I avert my gaze;
  Unsweetened tea my thirst allays;
  I never go to any plays
  Or smoke expensive Henry Clays."

  Our excellent Economist
    His pet extravagance forgets,
  Which rather spoils his little list--
    His fifty daily cigarettes.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENERAL.

  Last night, as I was washing up,
  And just had rinsed the final cup,
  All of a sudden, 'midst the steam,
  I fell asleep and dreamt a dream.
  I saw myself an old, old man,
  Nearing the end of mortal span,
  Bent, bald and toothless, lean and spare,
  Hunched in an ancient beehive chair.
  Before me stood a little lad
  Alive with questions. "Please, Granddad,
  Did Daddy fight, and Uncle Joe,
  In the Great War of long ago?"
  I nodded as I made reply:
  "Your Dad was in the H.L.I.,
  And Uncle Joseph sailed the sea,
  Commander of a T.B.D.,
  And Uncle Jack was Major too----"
  "And what," he asked me, "what were you?"
  I stroked the little golden head;
  "I was a General," I said.
  "Come, and I'll tell you something more
  Of what I did in the Great War."
  At once the wonder-waiting eyes
  Were opened in a mild surmise;
  Smiling, I helped the little man
  To mount my knee, and so began:
  "When first the War broke out, you see,
  Grandma became a V.A.D.;
  Your Aunties spent laborious days
  In working at Y.M.C.A.'s;
  The servants vanished. Cook was found
  Doing the conscript baker's round;
  The housemaid, Jane, in shortened skirt
  (She always was a brazen flirt),
  Forsook her dusters, brooms and pails
  To carry on with endless mails.
  The parlourmaid became a vet.,
  The tweeny a conductorette,
  And both the others found their missions
  In manufacturing munitions.
  I was a City man. I knew
  No useful trade. What could I do?
  Your Granddad, boy, was not the sort
  To yield to fate; he was a sport.
  I set to work; I rose at six,
  Summer and winter; chopped the sticks,
  Kindled the fire, made early tea
  For Aunties and the V.A.D.
  I cooked the porridge, eggs and ham,
  Set out the marmalade and jam,
  And packed the workers off, well fed,
  Well warmed, well brushed, well valeted.
  I spent the morning in a rush
  With dustpan, pail and scrubbing-brush;
  Then with a string-bag sallied out
  To net the cabbage or the sprout,
  Or in the neighbouring butcher's shop
  Select the juiciest steak or chop.
  So when the sun had sought the West,
  And brought my toilers home to rest,
  Savours more sweet than scent of roses
  Greeted their eager-sniffing noses--
  Savours of dishes most divine
  Prepared and cooked by skill of mine.
  I was a General. Now you know
  How Generals helped to down the foe."
  The little chap slipped off my knee
  And gazed in solemn awe at me,
  Stood at attention, stiff and mute,
  And gave his very best salute.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Prescriptions (C.P.--197/30).--The replies to your queries are as
    follows:--(a) Refuse; (b) refuse; (c) refuse; (d) refuse; (e) No."--
    Pharmaceutical Journal.

We have often felt like that about prescriptions ourselves, but have never ventured to say so.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

JOLLYMOUSE.

