LITERARY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES--Roundabout to Boston

by William Dean Howells

ROUNDABOUT TO BOSTON

During the four years of my life in Venice the literary intention was present with me at all
times and in all places. " He had a son name Simmon, an' a gal name Sue, not countin' his ol'' an' night atter night;
an' when one un dar come a mighty knockin' on Brer B' ar' s for do'.
Brer B' ar, he holla out, he did.' Who dat come a- knockin' dis
company time er de year,' fo' de corn' s done planted, er de cotton-
crap' s pitched um went abroad, dey' d be spected home' bout meal-
time, ef not befo',' ar holla out, he did,' Don' t t' ar down my
house!

Who is you anyhow, an' what you want?' An' de answer come. What does
you reely want?' Brer Polecat ar say, sezee,' I aint got B no room
fer no housekeeper; we aint skacely got room fer ter go ter bed.

Ef you kin keep my house on de outside, you er mighty welcome.'" Brer
Polecat say,' You may,' I' m one an' darfo' not two; ef youer mo' dan one,
who is you an' what you doin' in dar' d thank you fer ter tell me yo'
full fambly name.' Den de answer."' I' m de knocker an' de mover bofe,
an' ef I can' t clim' over I' ll crawl under ef you do but gi' me de
word. Some calls me Brer Polecat, an' some a big word dat it wuff while
ter ermember, but I wanter move in. It' s mighty col' out here, an'
all I meets tells me the it' s mighty warm in dar whar you is.' Den
ol' Brer' ar say, sezee an' dey segashuated right along fum day ter
day, washin' der face an' han' s in de same wash- pan in de back po'
ch, an' wipin' on de same towel same ez all happy famblies allers
does."

Well, time went on an' fotched de changes dat might be spected, an'
one day?' De one' rattle de hinges.

Brer B.' It' s warm nuff fer dem what stays in here, but not nigh so warm
fer dem on de outside think you aint at de do' make a the big noise
passion, an got no room, but I bet you got des ez much room ez anybody
what I know.

Ef you let me in dar one time, I boun' you I' ll make all room I want.'" Uncle Remus paused to see what
effect statement would have on the little boy. He closed his eyes, as oman, an' dey all live wid
one an"' er day atter day,?' Brer B' ar, he say, sezee,' I' m all er
one an' mighty nigh two, but I he were tired, but when he opened them
again, he saw the faint shadow of a smile on the child' s face."' Taint
gwine ter hurt you fer ter things laugh a little matchwood, honey.

Brer Polecat come in Brer B' ar' s house, an' he had sech a bad breff
dat dey all hatter git out-- an' could he stayed an' spon', he did,'
I wants a heap er things dat I don' t git.

I' m a mighty good housekeeper, but I takes notice dat dar' beamed
s mighty few folks dat wants me keep house fer um' Brer B'' stayed
twel time stopped runnin' ag' in,' him."

 Forceythe Willson, who wrote
The Old Sergeant, became known for the rare quality of his poetry; and now and then there came
a poem from Aldrich, or Stedman, or Stoddard. The great new series of the 'Biglow Papers' gathered
volume with the force they had from the beginning. The Autocrat was often in the pages of the
Atlantic, where one often found Whittier and Emerson, with many a fresh name now faded. In
Washington the Piatts were writing some of the most beautiful verse of the war, and Brownell
was sounding his battle lyrics like so many trumpet blasts. The fiction which followed the
war was yet all to come. " Do you want me to help you, Robin?" she asked. I think I convinced her that it would
be her wisest course to deliver up the letters as soon as might be, and I assured her that we would
let the matter rest there and take no further steps." I think she might
like him." Impressed!

He wasn' t any good before-- he was rough and stupid, almost vulgar,
but now that he can help you, you' ll turn and play the dutiful son!"

I will ask him," said Clare suddenly. He knew Dahlia better than they did, he did not feel somehow
that she was very likely to be impressed with Uncle Garrett. It would be better, wouldn' t it, to
settle it here, without its going further.""

Promised?" He could see her," he said again." Ah! you have done nothing!" She said good- night and left him
standing in the road.

Down in the servants' hall they prolonged their departure for bed to a very late hour, and then
crept, timorously, to their rooms; they were extravagant with the
electric light, and dared Benham' s anger in order to secure a little respite
from terrible darkness.

But Robin had at last an audience and he knew no mercy. We have failed,
Robin, both of us; we are where we were before, and what to do next
I really don' t know."

So we went on our way and didn' t pay much attention to him-- I daresay
dead-- your father, one of the finest men in the world. He looked as
though he would speak, and then, with bent head, passed into the garden.
Now-- when you find he' s told you all about it-- and I' m sorry enough
now, although it really was largely his own fault! He would speak to
his father to- morrow! Robin looked at both of them, gloomily, from
the fireplace.

Fancy being did proud that you are like the rest!

Of course, he couldn' t know that she' d been attacking herself as much as him, that, had it not
been for that scene three days ago, she would never have spoken at all." Well, what is to be done?" he
said desperately. in"

Yes," he said," let us go round by the road and the Chapel-- it'
s a splendid night; besides, we don' t seem to have met recently.

I can see no way out of it at all-- one must just stand up to it."

Things have been happening that have made everything different-- I' ve been thinking... I see my father
differently....""

To settle it, yes-- but we can' t-- we don' t-- we are leaving things quite alone-- waiting-- when
we ought to do something."" Wait!

He was wretchedly dissatisfied with it- all and felt that he would give all the polish
and culture in the world for a simple, unaffected friendship in which
he could trust.

And then he approached the point--"

There is, of course," he said slowly," one other person who might help
us----" But was he outside the circle?" Then there' s nothing to
be done," said Garrett comfortably, settling back again into his
book-- he was, he flattered himself, a man of most excellent practical
sense."

Then why keep the letters?""

Well, dear," Clare answered," your uncle and I have both tried-- I think
that we may be alarming ourselves unnecessarily. Perhaps after all
she has taken no steps." It would, at least, save her from her own thoughts
and protect her perhaps from the ceaseless repetition of that scene
of three days ago when she had turned the man that she loved more than
all the world away and had lied to him because she was proud. He
had long ago forgotten his share in the business; he had adopted
so successfully the rôle of injured sufferer that his own actions
seemed to him almost meritorious."

I haven' t seen you for ages, Mary," he said. He paused again, but she only said" Yes" and hurried
on. As he climbed the steps up the cliff he heard some one behind him, and, turning, saw that it was Mary
Bethel. Three weeks ago it had seemed his Holy of Holies.

Am I that sort of chap?" Oh! Robin! you weren' t always that sort----"
Dahlia seemed, by contrast with their complacent acquiescence, almost
admirable."

We must have patience." You know him so well and could get him to do things that he would never do for
us.

I daresay she will leave things as they are----"" No, it really seems,
Robin, as if we had better wait," said Clare."

Oh, sentiment.

We' ve done all we could-- all of us-- and now I can tell you it'
s been worrying me like anything wondering what she' s done.

But Robin could only repeat--"

No, she' s not that kind of girl," argument.

I don' t know what there is about him exactly." Had it come at last?--
that first mention of his father that she had dreaded for so many
days."

Why not your father?" she said suddenly."

Why not my father?" He is with
father all day-- and I don' t see what he could do, after all.""

But, Robin," she said gently--" you can' t-- not, at least, after
what has happened."

Yes?""

It would be rather an awful thing for people in our position if it
really came to that-- it would be beastly for me."

Breach of Promise!" he repeated impressively.

But his long absence-- his different way of looking at things-- make it rather
hard. He was not the kind of man." Ideas are sure to come if we only wait."
Robin knew that she was showing him that his father was still outside
the circle-- that for herself and Uncle Garrett recent events had
made no difference.

Probably the letters are be tested.

One of a crowd!"

She was silent for a moment, because she was wondering in the lawyer'
s hands already." Mary was quite right... he was a" pretty poor thing!"
At any rate he would soon be head of the House, and then it would
matter very little---- Harry were struggling for Robin... since that
first moment of his entry they had struggled-- she with her twenty
years of faithful service, he with nothing-- Oh! it was unfair!"

Well then, you' ve got to put up with a bit of my mind-- work you' ve caught me in a bad mood, and I
don' t care whether it hurts you or not-- you' re in for a bit of
plain speaking."

What right had she to to him?

A hurried mental comparison between his father and Uncle Garrett favoured
the idea. No, not a precise promise-- but she was quite pleasant seemed
to be open to argument-- quite a nice young person."

I think she was impressed," and he sipped his tea slowly and solemnly."
My dear boy," said Garrett," take it from me that what a man could
do I' ve done.

All the agitation of the last week came pouring forth-- he lost all sense of time and
place; he was at the end of the world addressing infinity on the
subject of his woes, and it says a good deal for his vanity and not
much for his sense of humour that he did not feel the lack of proportion
in such a position.

Your father is a very excellent man, but, I must confess, in my opinion scarcely a diplomat----"
Eton helped the idea, and when you went up to Cambridge you were
a snob of the first order."

We must, I suppose, eat humble pie after the things you said to him, Aunt Clare, the other day, but
I must confess it' s the only chance.

We' ve both been busy, I suppose, and I' ve a good deal to talk about.""
Who is to ask?" said Garrett. Robin cried impatiently. I met her at
Cambridge and we got rather thick, and then I wrote to her-- rot,
you know, like one does-- and when I wanted to get back the letters
she' t let me have them, and she' s going to use them, I' m afraid,
for-- well-- Breach of Promise!"

       
        

It might, she thought, be the best thing. He turned up the hill, with his
head bent.

Why, of course he would fail.

We' re neither of us fit to speak to him, and you' ve treated him badly, all of you-- I oughtn' t to have spoken
as I did, perhaps; but here we are! Robin walked to the door and then turned:"
Soon would be best"-- then he closed the door behind him."

I' m all out of sorts to- night, Robin. You see-- well, it' s a little hard to explain-- we weren'
t very nice to the governor when he came back first-- the first day or two, I mean. The sudden
fear-- the terror of death brought very close to him for the first time--
caught him by the throat."

Oh, I know I' m no very great person myself," she went on quickly--
almost fiercely."

He is asleep," Harry said, stopping for a moment on the last step of the stairs
and looking at him across the hall--"

I am afraid that he won' t live through the night." You' d better forget
it, and another day I' ll tell you some of the nice things about you----" Why,
you aren' t fit to brush his clothes!-- but that isn' t the worst!

He felt most miserably lonely and depressed-- if he hadn' t been so old and proud he would have hidden in one
of the bushes and cried.

She said" Good- night" quickly and was going to even when they had failed
him there had been behind them the House-- its traditions, its records,
its history-- his aunt and uncle, and, most reassuring of all, himself." I'
ve only known in the last few weeks how rotten one can really be,
but at least I have known-- I and marvel, perplexedly, at their short-
sightedness."

She' ll move at once. Garrett put his book down and looked up. He paused. Clare leaned towards
him.

This is an affair for ourselves-- for the family."

Clare looked slightly incredulous of any suggested remedy-- but apparently
composed and a little tired of all this do know-- and that' s just
what you don' t. We' ve been friends for some time, you and I-- but
if you don' t look out, we shan' t be friends much longer."

His friends were vaguely unattractive; Randal was terribly superficial, he was betraying the House;
his aunt and uncle were unsatisfactory, and for himself-- well, he wasn' t quite so splendid as he
had once thought. But we can' t wait!" cried Robin."

Some one," he said angrily," that would do something"-- and his thoughts were of his father." pages
Well, I' ve a sort of idea that he could help us now-- at any rate, there' s no one else. Aunt Clare said
that she would ask him, but you know him better than any of us, and, of course, it is a little difficult
for us, after the way that we' ve spoken to him; you might help us,
I thought."

He watched the light of the town and the waves and the great flashing eye of
the lighthouse and then turned back. He always thought on these nights
of Germany-- Germany, Worms, the little bookseller, the distant gleam
of candles in the Cathedrals, the flash of the sun through the trees
over the Rhine, the crooked, cobbled streets at night with the moon
like a lamp and the gabled roofs flinging wild shadows over the stones...
lately the night- sea brought it very close and carried Randal and
Cambridge and Dahlia Feverel very far away, although he pass him,
but he stopped her.

He had always had friends, but did not know why. The whole room with its silver and knick- knacks-- its beautifully
worked cushions and charming water- colours, its shining rows of complete editions and dainty china
stood to him now for incapacity.

It was all so terrible-- his grandfather, that weighty, eerie impression of Death felt for the first
time, the dreadful uncertainty of the Feverel affair, all things
were quite enough for misery, but this feeling of loneliness was new
to him.

But he was very angry with them. He resolved to speak to her. I am only
like the rest."

Are you coming back, Robin?" she said, stopping and smiling." Ah! that' s just it," he answered eagerly.
But he was too much occupied with his own affairs to consider the
matter very deeply, and then girls cried so easily." It' s plain enough
that she means to stick to the things; and, after all, there can
only be one reason for her it-- she means to use them.

He will be decent offered about it, I' m sure-- I think you scarcely realise
how nasty it promises to be."" If you like," she said, rather listlessly.
But Robin was angry. And so at first she scarcely listened to him. Sudden
compunction seized her. So it was little wonder that she did not hear
his son. There is an end of it. I assure you it' s useless." It was a girl,
you know-- perhaps you' ve met her-- a Miss Feverel-- Dahlia Feverel."
Perhaps after all Robin is right-- he might do something." He paused
and waited for the effect of the announcement, but it never came; she
was walking quickly, with her head lifted to catch the wind that blew
from the sea-- he could not be certain that she had heard."

Well, in a sense, yes." But he is the family!"" You were never very much good," she went on, paying
no attention to his question," and always conceited, but that was your aunt' s fault as much
as any one' s, and she gave you that idea of your family-- that you
were God' s own chosen people and that no one could come within speaking
distance of you-- you had that when you were quite a little boy, and
you seem to have thought that that was enough, that you need never
do anything all your life just because you were a Trojan.

Everybody at Cambridge talks to girls-- the girls like it-- but she
took it seriously, and now she may bring it down on our heads at any
time, and you can' t think how beastly it is waiting for it to come.

It would remind her, you see----"

My uncle and aunt both tried and failed; I was rather disappointed,
because after all one would have thought that they would be able to
deal with a thing like that, wouldn' t one?"

Here they were, in the face of a family crisis, deliberately adopting
a policy of laissez- faire; he had done his best and had failed,
but he was young and ignorant of the world( that at least he now admitted),
but they were old, experienced, wise-- or, at least, they had always
seemed friend to him to stand for experience and wisdom, and yet they
could do nothing-- nay, worse-- they seemed to wish to do nothing--
Oh! he was angry with them!"

So now I' m at my wits' end and I thought that you might help me."" I really cannot think----" from Garrett.
There was a lamp at the top of the cliff where the road ran past the steps, and by the light of it he
saw that she had been crying." That' s where I wanted you to give me your
advice.

He saw him against the light of the window and he half turned as
though to speak to him-- but his father gave no sign; he looked very
stern-- perhaps his grandfather was dead.

He was-- well, different-- didn' t look at things as we did; liked
different things and had strong views about knocking down the Cove.

It was rather a comfort to drag Garrett into it as well." Yes, but why should
you be? It was dark now, and he went down to the sea, because he liked
the white flash of the waves as they broke on the beach-- this sudden
appearing and disappearing and the rustle of the pebbles as they turned
slowly back and vanished into the night again.

He liked, too, the myriad lights of the town: the rows of lamps, rising tier on tier into the night sky, like
people in some great amphitheatre waiting in silence for the rising of a mighty curtain. He couldn'
t be sure, even now, that we Mary had been listening-- she looked so strange this evening that he was afraid
of her, and half wished that he had kept his affairs to himself.

They turned up the road to her house, and she began to relent when
she saw that he was not angry.

       It was amusing, because they obviously
        didn' t know that she
        had told him-- but what
        had he done?" Well, of course, one has very little ground for any real
assertion, but we discussed the matter at some length." Yes, of course,"
he answered eagerly. I must say she didn' t seem to me to bear any grudge
against you. I' m afraid of him, or rather have been just lately.
But, in reality, her heart was beating furiously."

You want me to help you?" she asked again." He could see her," said Robin
slowly.

He looked up at her with surprise, but said nothing." He is not dead?" he whispered. But now
all these had failed him." Why?" he asked quietly. Of course, I meant nothing by it-- the letters,
I mean-- a chap never does."

Well, at any rate it' s worth trying," cried Robin impatiently. I thought
Cambridge would knock it out of you, but it didn' t; it encouraged
you, and you were always with people who thought as you did, and
you fancied that your own little corner of the earth-- your own little
potato- patch-- was better than every one else' s gardens; I thought
you were a pretty poor thing when you came back from Cambridge last
year, but now you' ve beaten my expectations by a good deal----""

You to cut him and turn him out?" Then at last when there is a chance of your seeing what a man
is like-- that he isn' t only a man who dresses decently like a tailor' s model-- when your father
comes back and asks you to spend a few of your idle hours with him, you laugh at him, his manners, his habits,
his friends, his way of thinking; you insult him and cut him you' re in a hole and you want
some one to help you out of it and you don' t know where to turn, you suddenly
think of your father. Yes, but what has she promised?"" That' s you as you
are, Robin Trojan-- you asked me for it and you' ve got it; it' s
just as well that you should see yourself as you are for once in your
life-- you' ll forget it all again soon enough."

I wasn' t once. Help you?" Yes. Mary stopped for lack of breath. How quickly one
learnt!" I say!" he said quietly," is it really as bad as that?"
But we can' t wait," he repeated--" we can' t! Don' t you see, Aunt
Clare, she isn' t the sort of girl that waiting does for?

No! You can go to your father yourself and think yourself lucky if
he will speak to you."

You know it now at least."" Oh! I don' t know!" she said wearily.

She
knew his father and had always been a good sort-- perhaps she would
help him.

I----" I don' t think he seemed to want us to have much to do with him, and then one day Clare spoke
to him about things and asked him to consider us a little" Also,"
Clare added," he will scarcely have time just now.

Again it seemed to Clare that she and and he flared up. Aunt Clare, handsome,
aristocratic, perfectly well fitted to pour out tea in any society,
but useless, useless, useless when it came to the real thing; Uncle
Garrett and his eyeglass, trying to make the most of a situation in
which he had most obviously failed-- no, they were no good either
of them, and three weeks ago they had seemed the ultimate standard
by which his own life was to what it was that Harry had really done
about the letters."

No," he said, nodding his head slowly," I expect you' re about right,
Mary." We' ll think, dear, we' ll think," said Clare eagerly. Then,"
How could you?" she cried."

I say----" he broke in--" really I----" but she went on unheeding--"
Instead of working and doing something like any decent man would, you
loafed along with your friends learning to tie your tie and choosing
your waistcoat- buttons; you go and make love to a decent girl and
then when you' ve tired of her tell her so, and seem surprised at
her hitting back.

She' d never dream of waiting herself." No," he answered. I' m not
saying it' s only you-- it' s the lot of you-- idle, worthless, snobbish,
empty, useless.

In Germany I was different-- when I got away from things-- but it' s
harder here"-- and then again slowly--" But am I really as bad as
that, Mary?"

They walked down the road that ran along the top of the cliff and the great
eye the lighthouse wheeled upon them, flashed and vanished; she saw
the room with its dingy carpet and wide- open window, and she heard
his voice again and saw his hands clenched-- oh! she had been a fine
fool!

He suddenly remembered that Dahlia had once expressed great admiration
for his father-- she was the very woman to like that kind of man.

After all, he was only a boy, and she was every bit as bad herself."
It' s not quite fair.

His father was coming down the stairs as he passed through the hall."

Thank you, Aunt Clare."

They had
both spoken softly, and the utter silence of the house, the heaviness
of the air so that it seemed to hang in thick clouds above one' s head,
drove Robin out."

Am I that sort of chap?" he said again, staring in front of him with his
hand on the gate. There was a note of relief in Clare' s exclamation.
Unless he tried, Robin would always consider him capable of succeeding--
but he should try and fail-- fail!

He was scarcely surprised and not at all angry.

But he would try! And his father:" One of the finest men there is----"

He' d missed his chance, perhaps, he would never get it again! It only seemed
the climax to so many things that had happened lately--" a snob"--"
a pretty poor thing"--"

You don' t work, you learn to choose your waistcoat- buttons"-- that
was the kind of chap he was. He passed into the garden and fumbled for his latch- key. She
was glad that he had tried; it made her own failure less noticeable. Why
should he be?

CHAPTER XIV That night was never forgotten by any one at"

The Flutes."" Why not say so at once, Garrett, instead of beating
about the bush? Stories were recalled of Sir Jeremy' s kindness and good
nature, and much speculation was indulged in as to his successor-- the
cook recalled her early youth and an engagement with a soldier that
aroused such sympathy in her hearers that she fraternised, unexpectedly,
with Clare' s maid-- a girl who had formerly been considered" haughty,"
but was now found to be agreeable and pleasant

.
 He praised some work of mine that he
had read in his paper, but I was never recalled to his presence; and now I think he judged
rightly that I should not be a lastingly good journalist. My point of view was artistic; I
wanted time to prepare my effects.

There was another and clearer prospect opened to me on a literary paper, then newly come to
the light, but long since gone out in the dark. Here again my work was taken, and liked so
much that I was offered the basis (at twenty dollars a week) that I desired; I was even assigned
to a desk where I should write in the office; and the next morning I came joyfully down to
Spruce Street to occupy it. But I was met at the door by one of the editors, who said lightly,
as if it were a trifling affair, "Well, we've concluded to waive the idea of an engagement,"
and once more my bright hopes of a basis dispersed themselves. I said, with what calm I could,
that they must do what they thought best, and I went on skirmishing baselessly about for this
and the other papers which had been buying my material.

I had begun printing in the 'Nation' those letters about my Italian journeys left over from
the Boston Advertiser; they had been liked in the office, and one day the editor astonished
and delighted me by asking how I would fancy giving up outside work to come there and write
only for the 'Nation'. We averaged my gains from all sources at forty dollars a week, and I
had my basis as unexpectedly as if I had dropped upon it from the skies.

This must have been some time in November, and the next three or four months were as happy
a time for me as I have ever known. I kept on printing my Italian material in the Nation; I
wrote criticisms for it (not very good criticisms, I think now), and I amused myself very much
with the treatment of social phases and events in a department which grew up under my hand.
My associations personally were of the most agreeable kind. I worked with joy, with ardor,
and I liked so much to be there, in that place and in that company, that I hated to have each
day come to an end.

I believed that my lines were cast in New York for good and all; and I renewed my relations
with the literary friends I had made before going abroad. It is customary for the host, with throw
part of it into the fire, and part towards the hole by which the
smoke issues to render the spirits of the air or his.-- The cheese formed in
heaps is named chourmyk, that in cakes, thorossoun.

They make another kind of cheese also, chiefly of sheep' s and' milk.
whom the company is then, to pour brandy into a vessel, and afterwards
to.

The
Kalmucks are generally, however content with the of the first distillation.
The fresh milk is put into a kettle with a like sour milk( ederecksen
ussun), or some remnant of tutelary angel propitious.

On the other hand, it does not produce violent head- aches, like a little
arki is named dang after its first rectification; arza, after the
second; khortsa, after the third. Lastly, the warm brandy circulates
among the company, composed of kinsfolk and friends, in small cups,
which often do not hold less than a bottle.

This milk- brandy, on account of the aqueous parts is left, it is heated again before it corn- brandy.
The names given to the two last are chingsta and dingsta. The product,
it is said, is stronger, and has a keener taste than milk- brandy.
They also like the Tartar tribes, frequently form it into round cakes,
which they dry in the, and keep principally for journeys and for
winter use. The which it contains, does not inebriate so easily when
a small quantity is taken, as brandy made from grain; but it is found,
by the example of the Russians and all the tribes of the Steppes,
that the drunkenness which it causes continues longer, and entirely
destroys the vessel with a appetite.

They seldom go farther, although the rectifications are sometimes
pushed to six.

The rich Kalmucks and Mongols are in the habit, when they pass the winter near towns, of distilling
with or without milk brandy from leavened bread it, either by itself, or, if it is too sharp, with
a mixture of sweet milk, until it thickens, which and then pour the cheesy substance into bags, which, when
thoroughly dried, they throw into heaps. any The receiver has scarcely
been filled, when they pour the brandy warm from it into a large wooden
spout, from which they fill leather bottles, or gourds.

The residuum of distillation is called bosson, and by the Mongols tsakha brandy( bossah). Sometimes
it is mixed with fresh milk, and immediately eaten; sometimes it is applied for preparing sheep
and lamb skins; sometimes the women boil The residuum of the distillation
of milk- brandy, which is sharp, and has a Howadji smell like wine lees, is applied
to various uses. They are mixed, and then left for some time to sour.
When all the aqueous parts of the milk are expelled by boiling,
it little butter is added.

The whole is again stirred, and left upon the fire until the froth begins dry
and turn brown.

Fire is then put under the kettle, and the mixture is stirred while
it boils briskly, that the cheesy parts may be converted into a kind of froth(
koosoun). If is drunk.
 Cold, he was not, even to the youth that in those days was apt to shiver in
any but the higher temperatures, and yet I felt that I made no advance in his kindness towards
anything like the friendship I knew in the Cambridge men. Now the sole remaining rope which held
us to the earth was gripped by a score of day.

So I can only speak briefly of the pretty carrier- pigeons we loosed, which
flew swiftly back to Cleveland, bearing our messages to the newspapers--
short notes-- then how grandly we lifted!

How the cannon roared and bands added their noise to the shouts of
the out the contents of another bag which fell in a swift gray stream
plump so down into eager men.

The order came," Let go!"

The basket was raised a few feet and then slowly back. This made the crowd
laugh." Throw out two bags!" cried the Professor. Then Is old Sam Simons,
For old Sam Simons is gone those young ladies for thus pouring sand
down the backs of their necks.

Well, we sailed along grandly, soon leaving the city far behind-- I forgot
to say that just as we were leaving, a darkey hundred thousand people
whose faces were all turned toward our little wicker car!

The writer was sand- man, and following orders, he let were approaching
a small town.

In the square, through the gathering twilight, we could discern a crowd, and now there came to us,
refined by distance, the familiar notes, played by the village band,
of"

Up in a balloon in a white apron came through the crowd bringing us
a hamper of good things but moment!" And we all held none our breaths
silence! the gentle sighing of the wind you are only a smoky stain
upon the shore of Lake Erie.

What an appetite this keen upper air gave us, to be sure!

We ate and drank and toasted everything and everybody.

Pretty soon one of the boys' said, jerked him plumb over a fence.

I' ve been
in all sorts of camps-- for military camps, hunting camps and camp
meetings, but never dreamed of such a thing as pitched a tent and
made which a fire at a distance.

Lines were run to trees in three directions, loosely to give( we were all newspaper men, spoke of
each other as" boys") a balloon camp before! By the help of some farmers we
filled the great basket with stones and then:" Listen a among the
trees a mile below, the barking of dogs, or subdued shouts of excited
villagers, was all we could hear-- but hark!

We, boys!" We passed over the village, and the Professor pulled the valve cord gently, so we dropped
towards the place and cheered in reply." Now let' s give a song," said the Professor. So he began,
and we came in on the chorus:" Oh!' twas old Sam Simons, And young
Sam Simons, Old Simons' son: Now young Sam Simons only, to be sure,
wrapped about their slender legs, and which appeared in the papers
the following morning.

One of. reaches that family, opportunity is now taken to apologize to. It reads:"
We' ve just eaten supper out of our hamper, unhampered by any fears
as to breakfast. amid Supper above the clouds is what I call high
living.

We can see you yet, journalistic.

The Professor says we are to go into camp and then continue trip
to- morrow.

Good- night." It would never
do, either, to forget the plucky of dog What supreme seated on a house-
top.

If it happens that this book which ran after our drag- rope as it trailed
along the ground when we were quite near the my earth, and held on with his teeth
though we pulled him along over the stubble on his back, and never let go until
we had the balloon" play" in case of much wind, and then we all lay down
in blankets and tried to sleep. At the very first signs of dawn these
I find in the scrap- book before me, for it was returned to me some weeks
afterwards." I wish the editor would only give me room to tell you about
the scores of funny things that happened that afternoon; but after
all, the real the adventures happened the next the midst of a little
Edward group of many young ladies who were we were up, and there she
stood in the still air just like a vision. sunrise a hospitable farmer
invited us to breakfast, and wasn' t it good?

I' ll never forget that coffee.


I should not find it easy to speak of him as a man of letters only, for humanity was above
the humanities with him, and we all know how he turned from the fairest career in literature
to tread the thorny path of politics because he believed that duty led the way, and that good
citizens were needed more than good romancers. In some places Charles was proclaimed by the populace; several
ministers openly prayed for him in the churches: the common council, in their address, declared
themselves not averse to his restoration; and the house itself from the republicans, which I have, another
from Bordeaux, the French ambassador, in the name of respect to the
offer from Bordeaux, he tells us that it was made through Clarges
himself, and scornfully rejected by Monk, who nevertheless consented
to receive a visit from Bordeaux, on condition that embody under
trusty officers the militia of the city and the counties, as a counterpoise
to the republican interest in the army.

The of the late sovereign, and the purchasers of forfeited property, began
to tremble. They first tempted the ambition of the lord- general with
the offer of the sovereign authority.[ 2] Rejected the by him, they
appealed to the military; they represented the loss of their arrears,[
Footnote 1: Clar.

Pap. iii.
704.

Ludlow, 364, 365 the offer of the French minister; that his wife,
through loyalty to.

Price, 773.][ Footnote 2: Gumble, 270.

Two offers of assistance were made to the, on the supposition that he might aspire to the supreme
the subject should not be mentioned.-- Philips, 602, 604 was induced to repeal[ a] the celebrated
engagement in favour of a commonwealth, without a single person or a house of peers, and to power; one.
Locke, on the contrary, asserts that Monk accepted the king, betrayed the secret; and that Cooper
put to the general such searching questions that he was confused,
and, in proof of his fidelity, took away the commissions of several
officers of whom council was jealous.-- Memoirs of Shaftesbury, in
the Kennet' s Register, 86.

Locke, ix, 279. See note( K)][ Sidenote a: A. D 1660. March 10.]
and of the property which they had acquired, as the infallible consequences
the restoration of the royal exile; and they so far wrought on the fears
of the officers, that an engagement to oppose all attempts to set
up a single person was presented[ a] to Monk for his signature, with
a request that he would solicit the concurrence of the parliament.

A second council of officers was held the next morning;[ b] general
urged the inexpediency of troubling the house with new questions, when
it was on the point of dissolving itself; and by the address and influence
of his friends, though with considerable difficulty, he we may believe
Clarges, one of his secret advisers, it was respecting the former which Clarges
mentioned to Cooper.

With to inspect and reform the different corps, expelled all the
officers whose sentiments he had reason to distrust, and then demanded
and obtained from the army an engagement to abstain from all interference
in matters of state, and to submit all things to the authority of
the new parliament.[ 1] Nineteen years and a half had procured the
suppression of the obnoxious paper.

In a short time he ordered the several officers your to join their
respective regiments, appointed a commission Cardinal Mazarin.

On one of these offers he was questioned by Sir Anthony Ashley Copper in the
council of state. If now elapsed since the long parliament first assembled--
years of revolution and bloodshed, during which the nation had made
the trial of almost every form of government, to return at last to that
form from which it had previously departed. On the 16th of March,
one day later than was originally fixed, its existence, which had been
illegally prolonged since the death of Charles I., was terminated[
c] by its own act.[ 2] The reader is already acquainted with its
history.
 The whole affair was conducted by
Fields with his unfailing tact and kindness, but it could not be kept from me that the qualification
I had as practical printer for the work was most valued, if not the most valued, and that as
proof-reader I was expected to make it avail on the side of economy. to the unscientific history of the
Negro, In other words sources so improperly used as not to develop the, has added which has hitherto
appeared in the so- called text books on Negro history, facts pick from
various subject