THEIR PILGRIMAGE

By Charles Dudley Warner

I. FORTRESS MONROE

When Irene looked out of her stateroom window early in the morning of the twentieth of March,
there was a softness and luminous quality in the horizon clouds that prophesied spring. The
steamboat, which had left Baltimore and an arctic temperature the night before, was drawing
near the wharf at Fortress Monroe, and the passengers, most of whom were seeking a mild climate,
were crowding the guards, eagerly scanning the long facade of the Hygeia Hotel.

"It looks more like a conservatory than a hotel," said Irene to her father, as she joined him.

"I expect that's about what it is. All those long corridors above and below enclosed in glass
are to protect the hothouse plants of New York and Boston, who call it a Winter Resort, and
I guess there's considerable winter in it."

"But how charming it is--the soft sea air, the low capes yonder, the sails in the opening shining
in the haze, and the peaceful old fort! I think it's just enchanting."

"I suppose it is. Get a thousand people crowded into one hotel under glass, and let 'em buzz
around--that seems to be the present notion of enjoyment. I guess your mother'll like it."

And she did. Mrs. Benson, who appeared at the moment, a little flurried with her hasty toilet,
a stout, matronly person, rather overdressed for traveling, exclaimed: "What a homelike looking
place! I do hope the Stimpsons are here!"

"No doubt the Stimpsons are on hand," said Mr. Benson. "Catch them not knowing what's the right
thing to do in March! They know just as well as you do that the Reynoldses and the Van Peagrims
are here."

The crowd of passengers, alert to register and secure rooms, hurried up the windy wharf. The
interior of the hotel kept the promise of the outside for comfort. Behind the glass-defended
verandas, in the spacious office and general lounging-room, sea-coal fires glowed in the wide
grates, tables were heaped with newspapers and the illustrated pamphlets in which railways
and hotels set forth the advantages of leaving home; luxurious chairs invited the lazy and
the tired, and the hotel-bureau, telegraph-office, railway-office, and post-office showed the
new-comer that even in this resort he was still in the centre of activity and uneasiness. The
Bensons, who had fortunately secured rooms a month in advance, sat quietly waiting while the
crowd filed before the register, and took its fate from the courteous autocrat behind the counter.
"No room," was the nearly uniform answer, and the travelers had the satisfaction of writing
their names and going their way in search of entertainment. "We've eight hundred people stowed
away," said the clerk, "and not a spot left for a hen to roost."

At the end of the file Irene noticed a gentleman, clad in a perfectly-fitting rough traveling
suit, with the inevitable crocodile hand-bag and tightly-rolled umbrella, who made no effort
to enroll ahead of any one else, but having procured some letters from the post-office clerk,
patiently waited till the rest were turned away, and then put down his name. He might as well
have written it in his hat. The deliberation of the man, who appeared to be an old traveler,
though probably not more than thirty years of age, attracted Irene's attention, and she could
not help hearing the dialogue that followed.

"What can you do for me?"

"Nothing," said the clerk.

"Can't you stow me away anywhere? It is Saturday, and very inconvenient for me to go any farther."

"Cannot help that. We haven't an inch of room."

"Well, where can I go?"

"You can go to Baltimore. You can go to Washington; or you can go to Richmond this afternoon.
You can go anywhere."

"Couldn't I," said the stranger, with the same deliberation--"wouldn't you let me go to Charleston?"

"Why," said the clerk, a little surprised, but disposed to accommodate--"why, yes, you can
go to Charleston. If you take at once the boat you have just left, I guess you can catch the
train at Norfolk."

As the traveler turned and called a porter to reship his baggage, he was met by a lady, who
greeted him with the cordiality of an old acquaintance and a volley of questions.

"Why, Mr. King, this is good luck. When did you come? have you a good room? What, no, not going?"

Mr. King explained that he had been a resident of Hampton Roads just fifteen minutes, and that,
having had a pretty good view of the place, he was then making his way out of the door to Charleston,
without any breakfast, because there was no room in the inn.

"Oh, that never'll do. That cannot be permitted," said his engaging friend, with an air of
determination. "Besides, I want you to go with us on an excursion today up the James and help
me chaperon a lot of young ladies. No, you cannot go away."

And before Mr. Stanhope King--for that was the name the traveler had inscribed on the register--knew
exactly what had happened, by some mysterious power which women can exercise even in a hotel,
when they choose, he found himself in possession of a room, and was gayly breakfasting with
a merry party at a little round table in the dining-room.

"He appears to know everybody," was Mrs. Benson's comment to Irene, as she observed his greeting
of one and another as the guests tardily came down to breakfast. "Anyway, he's a genteel-looking
party. I wonder if he belongs to Sotor, King and Co., of New York?"

"Oh, mother," began Irene, with a quick glance at the people at the next table; and then, "if
he is a genteel party, very likely he's a drummer. The drummers know everybody."

And Irene confined her attention strictly to her breakfast, and never looked up, although Mrs.
Benson kept prattling away about the young man's appearance, wondering if his eyes were dark
blue or only dark gray, and why he didn't part his hair exactly in the middle and done with
it, and a full, close beard was becoming, and he had a good, frank face anyway, and why didn't
the Stimpsons come down; and, "Oh, there's the Van Peagrims," and Mrs. Benson bowed sweetly
and repeatedly to somebody across the room.

To an angel, or even to that approach to an angel in this world, a person who has satisfied
his appetite, the spectacle of a crowd of people feeding together in a large room must be a
little humiliating. The fact is that no animal appears at its best in this necessary occupation.
But a hotel breakfast-room is not without interest. The very way in which people enter the
room is a revelation of character. Mr. King, who was put in good humor by falling on his feet,
as it were, in such agreeable company, amused himself by studying the guests as they entered.
There was the portly, florid man, who "swelled" in, patronizing the entire room, followed by
a meek little wife and three timid children. There was the broad, dowager woman, preceded by
a meek, shrinking little man, whose whole appearance was an apology. There was a modest young
couple who looked exceedingly self-conscious and happy, and another couple, not quite so young,
who were not conscious of anybody, the gentleman giving a curt order to the waiter, and falling
at once to reading a newspaper, while his wife took a listless attitude, which seemed to have
become second nature. There were two very tall, very graceful, very high-bred girls in semi-mourning,
accompanied by a nice lad in tight clothes, a model of propriety and slender physical resources,
who perfectly reflected the gracious elevation of his sisters. There was a preponderance of
women, as is apt to be the case in such resorts. A fact explicable not on the theory that women
are more delicate than men, but that American men are too busy to take this sort of relaxation,
and that the care of an establishment, with the demands of society and the worry of servants,
so draw upon the nervous energy of women that they are glad to escape occasionally to the irresponsibility
of hotel life. Mr. King noticed that many of the women had the unmistakable air of familiarity
with this sort of life, both in the dining-room and at the office, and were not nearly so timid
as some of the men. And this was very observable in the case of the girls, who were chaperoning
their mothers--shrinking women who seemed a little confused by the bustle, and a little awed
by the machinery of the great caravansary.

At length Mr. King's eye fell upon the Benson group. Usually it is unfortunate that a young
lady should be observed for the first time at table. The act of eating is apt to be disenchanting.
It needs considerable infatuation and perhaps true love on the part of a young man to make
him see anything agreeable in this performance. However attractive a girl may be, the man may
be sure that he is not in love if his admiration cannot stand this test. It is saying a great
deal for Irene that she did stand this test even under the observation of a stranger, and that
she handled her fork, not to put too fine a point upon it, in a manner to make the fastidious
Mr. King desirous to see more of her. I am aware that this is a very unromantic view to take
of one of the sweetest subjects in life, and I am free to confess that I should prefer that
Mr. King should first have seen Irene leaning on the balustrade of the gallery, with a rose
in her hand, gazing out over the sea with "that far-away look in her eyes." It would have made
it much easier for all of us. But it is better to tell the truth, and let the girl appear in
the heroic attitude of being superior to her circumstances.

Presently Mr. King said to his friend, Mrs. Cortlandt, "Who is that clever-looking, graceful
girl over there?"

"That," said Mrs. Cortlandt, looking intently in the direction indicated--"why, so it is; that's
just the thing," and without another word she darted across the room, and Mr. King saw her
in animated conversation with the young lady. Returning with satisfaction expressed in her
face, she continued, "Yes, she'll join our party--without her mother. How lucky you saw her!"

"Well! Is it the Princess of Paphlagonia?"

"Oh, I forgot you were not in Washington last winter. That's Miss Benson; just charming; you'll
see. Family came from Ohio somewhere. You'll see what they are--but Irene! Yes, you needn't
ask; they've got money, made it honestly. Began at the bottom--as if they were in training
for the presidency, you know--the mother hasn't got used to it as much as the father. You know
how it is. But Irene has had every advantage--the best schools, masters, foreign travel, everything.
Poor girl! I'm sorry for her. Sometimes I wish there wasn't any such thing as education in
this country, except for the educated. She never shows it; but of course she must see what
her relatives are."

The Hotel Hygeia has this advantage, which is appreciated, at least by the young ladies. The
United States fort is close at hand, with its quota of young officers, who have the leisure
in times of peace to prepare for war, domestic or foreign; and there is a naval station across
the bay, with vessels that need fashionable inspection. Considering the acknowledged scarcity
of young men at watering-places, it is the duty of a paternal government to place its military
and naval stations close to the fashionable resorts, so that the young women who are studying
the german [(dance) D.W.] and other branches of the life of the period can have agreeable assistants.
It is the charm of Fortress Monroe that its heroes are kept from ennui by the company assembled
there, and that they can be of service to society.

When Mrs. Cortlandt assembled her party on the steam-tug chartered by her for the excursion,
the army was very well represented. With the exception of the chaperons and a bronzed veteran,
who was inclined to direct the conversation to his Indian campaigns in the Black Hills, the
company was young, and of the age and temper in which everything seems fair in love and war,
and one that gave Mr. King, if he desired it, an opportunity of studying the girl of the period--the
girl who impresses the foreigner with her extensive knowledge of life, her fearless freedom
of manner, and about whom he is apt to make the mistake of supposing that this freedom has
not perfectly well-defined limits. It was a delightful day, such as often comes, even in winter,
within the Capes of Virginia; the sun was genial, the bay was smooth, with only a light breeze
that kept the water sparkling brilliantly, and just enough tonic in the air to excite the spirits.
The little tug, which was pretty well packed with the merry company, was swift, and danced
along in an exhilarating manner. The bay, as everybody knows, is one of the most commodious
in the world, and would be one of the most beautiful if it had hills to overlook it. There
is, to be sure, a tranquil beauty in its wooded headlands and long capes, and it is no wonder
that the early explorers were charmed with it, or that they lost their way in its inlets, rivers,
and bays. The company at first made a pretense of trying to understand its geography, and asked
a hundred questions about the batteries, and whence the Merrimac appeared, and where the Congress
was sunk, and from what place the Monitor darted out upon its big antagonist. But everything
was on a scale so vast that it was difficult to localize these petty incidents (big as they
were in consequences), and the party soon abandoned history and geography for the enjoyment
of the moment. Song began to take the place of conversation. A couple of banjos were produced,
and both the facility and the repertoire of the young ladies who handled them astonished Irene.
The songs were of love and summer seas, chansons in French, minor melodies in Spanish, plain
declarations of affection in distinct English, flung abroad with classic abandon, and caught
up by the chorus in lilting strains that partook of the bounding, exhilarating motion of the
little steamer. Why, here is material, thought King, for a troupe of bacchantes, lighthearted
leaders of a summer festival. What charming girls, quick of wit, dashing in repartee, who can
pick the strings, troll a song, and dance a brando!

"It's like sailing over the Bay of Naples," Irene was saying to Mr. King, who had found a seat
beside her in the little cabin; "the guitar-strumming and the impassioned songs, only that
always seems to me a manufactured gayety, an attempt to cheat the traveler into the belief
that all life is a holiday. This is spontaneous."

"Yes, and I suppose the ancient Roman gayety, of which the Neapolitan is an echo, was spontaneous
once. I wonder if our society is getting to dance and frolic along like that of old at Baiae!"

"Oh, Mr. King, this is an excursion. I assure you the American girl is a serious and practical
person most of the time. You've been away so long that your standards are wrong. She's not
nearly so knowing as she seems to be."

The boat was preparing to land at Newport News--a sand bank, with a railway terminus, a big
elevator, and a hotel. The party streamed along in laughing and chatting groups, through the
warehouse and over the tracks and the sandy hillocks to the hotel. On the way they captured
a novel conveyance, a cart with an ox harnessed in the shafts, the property of an aged negro,
whose white hair and variegated raiment proclaimed him an ancient Virginian, a survival of
the war. The company chartered this establishment, and swarmed upon it till it looked like
a Neapolitan 'calesso', and the procession might have been mistaken for a harvest-home--the
harvest of beauty and fashion. The hotel was captured without a struggle on the part of the
regular occupants, a dance extemporized in the dining-room, and before the magnitude of the
invasion was realized by the garrison, the dancing feet and the laughing girls were away again,
and the little boat was leaping along in the Elizabeth River towards the Portsmouth Navy-yard.

It isn't a model war establishment this Portsmouth yard, but it is a pleasant resort, with
its stately barracks and open square and occasional trees. In nothing does the American woman
better show her patriotism than in her desire to inspect naval vessels and understand dry-docks
under the guidance of naval officers. Besides some old war hulks at the station, there were
a couple of training-ships getting ready for a cruise, and it made one proud of his country
to see the interest shown by our party in everything on board of them, patiently listening
to the explanation of the breech-loading guns, diving down into the between-decks, crowded
with the schoolboys, where it is impossible for a man to stand upright and difficult to avoid
the stain of paint and tar, or swarming in the cabin, eager to know the mode of the officers'
life at sea. So these are the little places where they sleep? and here is where they dine,
and here is a library--a haphazard case of books in the saloon.

It was in running her eyes over these that a young lady discovered that the novels of Zola
were among the nautical works needed in the navigation of a ship of war.

On the return--and the twenty miles seemed short enough--lunch was served, and was the occasion
of a good deal of hilarity and innocent badinage. There were those who still sang, and insisted
on sipping the heel-taps of the morning gayety; but was King mistaken in supposing that a little
seriousness had stolen upon the party--a serious intention, namely, between one and another
couple? The wind had risen, for one thing, and the little boat was so tossed about by the vigorous
waves that the skipper declared it would be imprudent to attempt to land on the Rip-Raps. Was
it the thought that the day was over, and that underneath all chaff and hilarity there was
the question of settling in life to be met some time, which subdued a little the high spirits,
and gave an air of protection and of tenderness to a couple here and there? Consciously, perhaps,
this entered into the thought of nobody; but still the old story will go on, and perhaps all
the more rapidly under a mask of raillery and merriment.

There was great bustling about, hunting up wraps and lost parasols and mislaid gloves, and
a chorus of agreement on the delight of the day, upon going ashore, and Mrs. Cortlandt, who
looked the youngest and most animated of the flock, was quite overwhelmed with thanks and congratulations
upon the success of her excursion.

"Yes, it was perfect; you've given us all a great deal of pleasure, Mrs. Cortlandt," Mr. King
was saying, as he stood beside her, watching the exodus.

Perhaps Mrs. Cortlandt fancied his eyes were following a particular figure, for she responded,
"And how did you like her?"

"Like her--Miss Benson? Why, I didn't see much of her. I thought she was very intelligent--seemed
very much interested when Lieutenant Green was explaining to her what made the drydock dry--but
they were all that. Did you say her eyes were gray? I couldn't make out if they were not rather
blue after all--large, changeable sort of eyes, long lashes; eyes that look at you seriously
and steadily, without the least bit of coquetry or worldliness; eyes expressing simplicity
and interest in what you are saying--not in you, but in what you are saying. So few women know
how to listen; most women appear to be thinking of themselves and the effect they are producing."

Mrs. Cortlandt laughed. "Ah; I see. And a little 'sadness' in them, wasn't there? Those are
the most dangerous eyes. The sort that follow you, that you see in the dark at night after
the gas is turned off."

"I haven't the faculty of seeing things in the dark, Mrs. Cortlandt. Oh, there's the mother!"
And the shrill voice of Mrs. Benson was heard, "We was getting uneasy about you. Pa says a
storm's coming, and that you'd be as sick as sick."

The weather was changing. But that evening the spacious hotel, luxurious, perfectly warmed,
and well lighted, crowded with an agreeable if not a brilliant company--for Mr. King noted
the fact that none of the gentlemen dressed for dinner--seemed all the more pleasant for the
contrast with the weather outside. Thus housed, it was pleasant to hear the waves dashing against
the breakwater. Just by chance, in the ballroom, Mr. King found himself seated by Mrs. Benson
and a group of elderly ladies, who had the perfunctory air of liking the mild gayety of the
place. To one of them Mr. King was presented, Mrs. Stimpson--a stout woman with a broad red
face and fishy eyes, wearing an elaborate head-dress with purple flowers, and attired as if
she were expecting to take a prize. Mrs. Stimpson was loftily condescending, and asked Mr.
King if this was his first visit. She'd been coming here years and years; never could get through
the spring without a few weeks at the Hygeia. Mr. King saw a good many people at this hotel
who seemed to regard it as a home.

"I hope your daughter, Mrs. Benson, was not tired out with the rather long voyage today."

"Not a mite. I guess she enjoyed it. She don't seem to enjoy most things. She's got everything
heart can wish at home. I don't know how it is. I was tellin' pa, Mr. Benson, today that girls
ain't what they used to be in my time. Takes more to satisfy 'em. Now my daughter, if I say
it as shouldn't, Mr. King, there ain't a better appearin,' nor smarter, nor more dutiful girl
anywhere--well, I just couldn't live without her; and she's had the best schools in the East
and Europe; done all Europe and Rome and Italy; and after all, somehow, she don't seem contented
in Cyrusville--that's where we live in Ohio--one of the smartest places in the state; grown
right up to be a city since we was married. She never says anything, but I can see. And we
haven't spared anything on our house. And society--there's a great deal more society than I
ever had."

Mr. King might have been astonished at this outpouring if he had not observed that it is precisely
in hotels and to entire strangers that some people are apt to talk with less reserve than to
intimate friends.

"I've no doubt," he said, "you have a lovely home in Cyrusville."

"Well, I guess it's got all the improvements. Pa, Mr. Benson, said that he didn't know of anything
that had been left out, and we had a man up from Cincinnati, who did all the furnishing before
Irene came home."

"Perhaps your daughter would have preferred to furnish it herself?"

"Mebbe so. She said it was splendid, but it looked like somebody else's house. She says the
queerest things sometimes. I told Mr. Benson that I thought it would be a good thing to go
away from home a little while and travel round. I've never been away much except in New York,
where Mr. Benson has business a good deal. We've been in Washington this winter."

"Are you going farther south?"

"Yes; we calculate to go down to the New Orleans Centennial. Pa wants to see the Exposition,
and Irene wants to see what the South looks like, and so do I. I suppose it's perfectly safe
now, so long after the war?"

"Oh, I should say so."

"That's what Mr. Benson says. He says it's all nonsense the talk about what the South 'll do
now the Democrats are in. He says the South wants to make money, and wants the country prosperous
as much as anybody. Yes, we are going to take a regular tour all summer round to the different
places where people go. Irene calls it a pilgrimage to the holy places of America. Pa thinks
we'll get enough of it, and he's determined we shall have enough of it for once. I suppose
we shall. I like to travel, but I haven't seen any place better than Cyrusville yet."

As Irene did not make her appearance, Mr. King tore himself away from this interesting conversation
and strolled about the parlors, made engagements to take early coffee at the fort, to go to
church with Mrs. Cortlandt and her friends, and afterwards to drive over to Hampton and see
the copper and other colored schools, talked a little politics over a late cigar, and then
went to bed, rather curious to see if the eyes that Mrs. Cortlandt regarded as so dangerous
would appear to him in the darkness.

When he awoke, his first faint impressions were that the Hygeia had drifted out to sea, and
then that a dense fog had drifted in and enveloped it. But this illusion was speedily dispelled.
The window-ledge was piled high with snow. Snow filled the air, whirled about by a gale that
was banging the window-shutters and raging exactly like a Northern tempest.

It swirled the snow about in waves and dark masses interspersed with rifts of light, dark here
and luminous there. The Rip-Raps were lost to view. Out at sea black clouds hung in the horizon,
heavy reinforcements for the attacking storm. The ground was heaped with the still fast-falling
snow--ten inches deep he heard it said when he descended. The Baltimore boat had not arrived,
and could not get in. The waves at the wharf rolled in, black and heavy, with a sullen beat,
and the sky shut down close to the water, except when a sudden stronger gust of wind cleared
a luminous space for an instant. Stormbound: that is what the Hygeia was--a winter resort without
any doubt.

The hotel was put to a test of its qualities. There was no getting abroad in such a storm.
But the Hygeia appeared at its best in this emergency. The long glass corridors, where no one
could venture in the arctic temperature, gave, nevertheless, an air of brightness and cheerfulness
to the interior, where big fires blazed, and the company were exalted into good-fellowship
and gayety--a decorous Sunday gayety--by the elemental war from which they were securely housed.

If the defenders of their country in the fortress mounted guard that morning, the guests at
the Hygeia did not see them, but a good many of them mounted guard later at the hotel, and
offered to the young ladies there that protection which the brave like to give the fair. Notwithstanding
this, Mr. Stanhope King could not say the day was dull. After a morning presumably spent over
works of a religious character, some of the young ladies, who had been the life of the excursion
the day before, showed their versatility by devising serious amusements befitting the day,
such as twenty questions on Scriptural subjects, palmistry, which on another day is an aid
to mild flirtation, and an exhibition of mind-reading, not public--oh, dear, no--but with a
favored group in a private parlor. In none of these groups, however, did Mr. King find Miss
Benson, and when he encountered her after dinner in the reading-room, she confessed that she
had declined an invitation to assist at the mind-reading, partly from a lack of interest, and
partly from a reluctance to dabble in such things.

"Surely you are not uninterested in what is now called psychical research?" he asked.

"That depends," said Irene. "If I were a physician, I should like to watch the operation of
the minds of 'sensitives' as a pathological study. But the experiments I have seen are merely
exciting and unsettling, without the least good result, with a haunting notion that you are
being tricked or deluded. It is as much as I can do to try and know my own mind, without reading
the minds of others."

