For some minutes after the meal Temple and I talked like interchangeing puffs of steam, but
soon subsided to our staring fit.  The pipes were lit again.  What we heard sounded like a
language of the rocks and caves, and roots plucked up, a language of gluttons feasting; the
word ja was like a door always on the hinge in every mouth.  Dumpy children, bulky men, compressed
old women with baked faces, and comical squat dogs, kept the villages partly alive.  We observed
one young urchin sitting on a stone opposite a dog, and he and the dog took alternate bites
off a platter-shaped cake, big enough to require both his hands to hold it.  Whether the dog
ever snapped more than his share was matter of speculation to us.  It was an education for
him in good manners, and when we were sitting at dinner we wished our companions had enjoyed
it.  They fed with their heads in their plates, splashed and clattered jaws, without paying
us any hospitable attention whatever, so that we had the dish of Lazarus.  They were perfectly
kind, notwithstanding, and allowed a portion of my great map of Germany to lie spread over
their knees in the diligence, whilst Temple and I pored along the lines of the rivers.  One
would thrust his square-nailed finger to the name of a city and pronounce it; one gave us lessons
in the expression of the vowels, with the softening of three of them, which seemed like a regulation
drill movement for taking an egg into the mouth, and showing repentance of the act.  'Sarkeld,'
we exclaimed mutually, and they made a galloping motion of their hands, pointing beyond the
hills. Sarkeld was to the right, Sarkeld to the left, as the road wound on. Sarkeld was straight
in front of us when the conductor, according to directions he had received, requested us to
alight and push through this endless fir-forest up a hilly branch road, and away his hand galloped
beyond it, coming to a deep place, and then to grapes, then to a tip-toe station, and under
it lay Sarkeld.  The pantomime was not bad.  We waved our hand to the diligence, and set out
cheerfully, with our bags at our backs, entering a gorge in the fir-covered hills before sunset,
after starting the proposition--Does the sun himself look foreign in a foreign country?

'Yes, he does,' said Temple; and so I thought, but denied it, for by the sun's favour I hoped
to see my father that night, and hail Apollo joyfully in the morning; a hope that grew with
exercise of my limbs. Beautiful cascades of dark bright water leaped down the gorge; we chased
an invisible animal.  Suddenly one of us exclaimed, 'We 're in a German forest'; and we remembered
grim tales of these forests, their awful castles, barons, knights, ladies, long-bearded dwarfs,
gnomes and thin people.  I commenced a legend off-hand.

'No, no,' said Temple, as if curdling; 'let's call this place the mouth of Hades.  Greek things
don't make you feel funny.'

I laughed louder than was necessary, and remarked that I never had cared so much for Greek
as on board Captain Welsh's vessel.

'It's because he was all on the opposite tack I went on quoting,' said Temple.  'I used to
read with my father in the holidays, and your Rev. Simon has kept you up to the mark; so it
was all fair.  It 's not on our consciences that we crammed the captain about our knowledge.'

'No.  I'm glad of it,' said I.

Temple pursued, 'Whatever happens to a fellow, he can meet anything so long as he can say--I
've behaved like a man of honour.  And those German tales--they only upset you.  You don't
see the reason of the thing.  Why is a man to be haunted half his life?  Well, suppose he did
commit a murder.  But if he didn't, can't he walk through an old castle without meeting ghosts?
or a forest?'

The dusky scenery of a strange land was influencing Temple.  It affected me so, I made the
worst of it for a cure.

'Fancy those pines saying, "There go two more," Temple.  Well; and fancy this--a little earth-dwarf
as broad as I'm long and high as my shoulder. One day he met the loveliest girl in the whole
country, and she promised to marry him in twenty years' time, in return for a sack of jewels
worth all Germany and half England.  You should have seen her dragging it home. People thought
it full of charcoal.  She married the man she loved, and the twenty years passed over, and
at the stroke of the hour when she first met the dwarf, thousands of bells began ringing through
the forest, and her husband cries out, "What is the meaning of it?"  and they rode up to a
garland of fresh flowers that dropped on her head, and right into a gold ring that closed on
her finger, and--look, Temple, look!'

'Where?' asked the dear little fellow, looking in all earnest, from which the gloom of the
place may be imagined, for, by suddenly mixing it with my absurd story, I discomposed his air
of sovereign indifference as much as one does the surface of a lake by casting a stone in it. 

By LOUISE STOCKTON. Atlantic monthly, December, 1875.

Considering it simply as an excursion, George Scott thought, leaning over the side of the canal-boat
and looking at the shadow of the hills in the water, his plan for
spending his summer vacation might be a success, but he was not so
sure about his opportunities for studying human nature under the worst
conditions.

It was true that the conditions were bad enough, but so were the results, and George was not in search
of logical sequences.

He had been in the habit of saying that nothing interested him as
much as the study of his fellows; and that he was in earnest was
proved by the fact that even his college experiences had not yet disheartened
him, although they had cost him not a few neckties and coats, and
sometimes too many of his dollars.

But George had higher aspirations, and was not disposed to be satisfied
with the opportunities presented by crude collegians or even learned
professors, and so meant to go out among men.

When he was younger,-- a year or two before,-- he had dreamed of a
mission among the Indians, fancying that he would reach original
principles among them; but the Modocs and Captain Jack had lowered
his faith, while the Rev. Dr. Buck's story of how the younger savages
had been taught to make beds and clean knives, until they preferred
these civilized occupations to their old habit of scampering through
the woods, had dispelled more of the glitter, and he had resolved
to confine his labors to his white brethren.

He did not mean to seek his opportunities among the rich, nor among
the monotonously dreary poor of the city, but in a fresher field.

Like most theological students, he was well read in current literature, and he had learned how often
the noblest virtues are found among the roughest classes. It was true, they were sometimes
so latent that like the jewel in a toad's head they had the added grace of unexpectedness, but that did
not interfere with the fact of their existence. He had read of California gamblers
who had rushed from tables where they had sat with bowie-knives between
their teeth, to warn a coming train of broken rails, and, when picked
up maimed and dying, had simply asked if the children were saved,
and then, content, had turned aside and died.

He knew the story of the Mississippi engineer who, going home with
a long-sought fortune to claim his waiting bride, had saved his boat
from wreck by supplying the want of fuel by hat, coat, boots, wedding-clothes,
gloves, favors, and finally his bag of greenbacks and northern Pacific
bonds, then returning to his duty, sans money, sans wife, but plus
honor and a rewarding conscience.

When men are capable of such heroism, George would say, arguing from these
and similar stories, they are open to true reformation, all that is
necessary being some exercise of an influence that shall make such
impulses constant instead of spasmodic.. about noon he had not been
quite so sanguine regarding his mission, and had almost resolved that
when they reached Springfield he would return East and join some of
his class who were going to the Kaatskills.

The sun was then pouring down directly on the boat, the cabin was
stifling, the horses crept sluggishly along, the men were rude and
brutal, and around him was an atmosphere of frying fish and boiling
cabbage.

The cabbage was so the crowning evil; for while he found it possible
to force his ear and eye to be deaf and blind to the disagreeable,
he had no amount of will that could conquer the sense of smell. There
seemed to be little, he thought, with some contempt for his expectations,
to reward his quest or maintain his theory that every one had at least
one story to tell.

It was not necessarily one's own story, he had said, but lives the most barren in incident come
into contact with those more vehement, and have the chance of looking
into tragedies, into moral victories and fierce conflicts, through
other men's eyes.

He had hinted something of this to Joe Lakin early in the morning,
when the mist was rising off the hills, when the air was fresh and
keen, and the sun was making the long lines of oil upon the river
glitter like so many brilliant snakes.

Joe was the laziest and roughest of the men on the boat, but they
both had brown hair and long beards, blue eyes, and were about the
same build, so you couldn't have made a descriptive list of the one
that wouldn't have done for the other.

I didn't know-- I didn't understand! for God's sake, don't suppose i
meant to take such an advantage of the situation! i am going directly.

I shall leave aiken to-night. "it was only the strain on her nerves, but Louise felt the oddest desire
to laugh. The elegant Martin cut such a very droll figure as a hero.
Then her eye fell on Demming's eager face, and a sudden revulsion of
feeling, a sudden keen realization of the tragedy that Martin had averted,
brought the tears back to her eyes.

Her beautiful head dropped." why do you go-- now? "said she." Hev you uns
made it up, yet? "murmured Demming's faint voice." yes, "talboys answered,"
i think we have, and-- I thank you, demming.

"the vagabond waved his hand with a feeble assumption of his familiar
gesture." yo'a square man, Cunnel. I allus set a heap by you, though
i didn't let on.

An', he's been a good husband to me. I've allus hed the bes'uv everything!
oh, Lordy,'pears's though i cyan't bear it, nohow!

"Louise put her hand gently on the thin shoulder, saying," i will see
that she never wants anything we can give, demming; and we will try
to comfort her.

"a cracker looked wistfully from her fresh, young face to the worn face below." she wuz's peart
an'purty's you, miss, w'en i fust struck up with'er, "said he, slowly." our little gal wuz her very image.
Alwynda, "in a singularly soft, almost diffident tone," don'take
on so; mabbe I'm gwine fer ter see'er again.'Twon't do no harm ter
think so, onyhow, "he added, with a glance at Talboys, as though sure
there of comprehension." it's just a whim of his, "he whispered, hurriedly;"
he wanted me to stay.

The boys got into words one night, and Kirby threw a mug at Clint, who out with his knife and was
at Kirby like a flash.

Lucky for him Clint's eyes weren't in good seeing order, and the
force of language couldn't go further than that! he knew what he was
talking about, for some of his folks were preachers; and there was
good in Kirby, too!

People may say what they please, but i'll allers hold to that! "" who
was he?

"asked George, happy to change the subject, being a little uneasy in his hold
upon it, and hopeful of a story at last. Joe looked over the hills."
well, he was a friend of mine when i was prospecting for oil, once.

I allers liked kicking Kirby.

"George sat patiently waiting, while Jim refilled his pipe and then
began:" there ain't so much to tell, but men do curious things sometimes,
and Kirby, i guess, was a man few folks would have expected very much
of.

There was hard things said of him, but he could allers strike a blow for a
friend, or hold his own with the next man, let him be who he might.
You see, there were a good many of us in camp, and we had fair enough
luck; for the men over at Digger's Run had struck a good vein, so
money was plenty and changed hands fast enough.

We'd all hung very in our camp until clint Bowers got into trouble.
None of the rest of us wanted to get mixed up in the fuss, but somehow
we did, and the other camp fought shy of us and played mostly among
themselves; and i've allers held that it is poor fun to take out of
one pocket to put into the other.

Our boys had different opinions about it, and some of them held that
it wasn't clint's awkward work that they'd got mad at, but that they
meant to shut down on Kirby.

You see, Kirby was a very lucky player, and although pretty rough things
were said about it, nobody ever got a clear handle against him, and
he wasn't the kind of fellow that was pleasant to affront.

Kirby used to say it was all along of clint; that he ought to have
been kept from the cards, or sent back the river; that we'd have had
a good run of luck all winter if it hadn't been for him.

I don't know the rights properly, but i allers thought it was about
six of one and a half dozen of the other.

Anyhow, there was bad blood about it, and that don't run up hill,
you know, and so there was trouble soon enough.. then the Bishop spoke,
solemnly, though with sympathy, urging the dying man, whose worldly
affairs were settled, to repent of his sins and prepare for eternity.

"shall i pray for you, demming?" he said, in conclusion.

"Jes'as you please, Bishop," answered Demming, and he tried to wave
his hand.

"i ain't noways partickler.

I reckon God a'mighty knows i'd be th'same ole demming ef i could get up, an'I don'mean ter make no
purtenses. But mabbe it'll cheer up th'ole'ooman a bit. So you begin,
an'I'll bring in an amen whenever it's wanted!" so speaking, demming
closed his eyes wearily, and the Bishop knelt by the bedside. Talboys
and Louise left them, thus.

After
a while, the wife stretched forth her toil-worn hand and took her
husband's. She thought she was aware of a weak pressure.

But when the prayer ended there came no amen. Demming was gone where
prayer may only faintly follow; nor could the Bishop ever decide how far
his vagabond had joined in his petitions. Such doubts, however, did not
prevent his cherishing an assured hope that the man who died for
him was safe, forever.

The Bishop's theology, like that of most of us, yielded, sometimes, to the demands of the occasion. Lost.
What Kirby said was that Clint's uncle hadn't seen him since he was
a boy, and he'd expect to find him changed; and although he-- that's
Kirby, you know-- had had hard feelin's to Clint, he wasn't a man
to hold a grudge, and he'd let bygones be bygones.

Enough if Clint thought well of it, he'd go over to Cambria, and if he found the land lay right he'd
pass off for him, and make things sure. "this struck us all of a heap,
for we knew Kirby could do it if he choose and if nobody interfered
with him, and that he really could cajole the old man better than
Clint could; for when that fellow got wound up to talk he was allers
going you five better. Some of the boys thought it rather risky, and
they wanted Clint to write and say he had the typhoid fever, and so stave
it off until he looked fit to go; but he knew that if he crossed
his uncle now he'd likely enough lose everything, and so he thought
it best to make sure and let Kirby go and see, anyhow.

One
thing that helped Kirby along was that his first wife had come from
Cambria, and he'd heard her talk so much about the people that he knew
nearly as much of them as Clint did. Thar he is, miss, hidin'like
behin'the bed." Louise during this speech had grown red to the roots
of her hair.

She looked up into Talboys's face. He had stepped forward. His usual
composure had quite left him, so that he made a pitiful picture of embarrassment,
not helped by crumpled linen and a borrowed coat a world too large
for him.

You see the world's pretty much of a hospital as far as he's concerned,
and when he can't tinker a man of girls with bright ribbons in their
hair were playing quoits with horseshoes. A rowboat was carrying passengers
over the river to meet the evening train, and under the sweetness of
the twilight George's spirits arose lightly to their level, his old
faith returned to him, and he looked up with a new sense of fellowship
to Joe, who was filling a pipe with his favorite "towhead."

"it's the pity you don't smoke," said Joe, carefully striking a match and holding
his cap before it, "for it seems a gift thrown away; and this tobacco
is uncommon good, though you might fancy it a notion too strong.
I've noticed that most preachers smoke, although they don't take kindly
to drinking. I suppose they think it wouldn't seem the proper thing,
and perhaps it wouldn't; but there's Parson Robinson,-- I should
think that a good, solid drink would be a real comfort to him sometimes.

He's got a hard pull of it with a half share of victuals and a double
share of children, so the two ends hardly ever see each other, much
less think of meeting." George hesitated for reply. He thought Joe was
unnecessarily rough at times, and alluded to the ministry much too
frequently.

He had fancied when he left home that his blue flannel and gray tweed,
with rather a jovial manner, would divest him of all resemblance to
a theological student, and enable him to meet his companions on the
ground of a common humanity, especially as he had at present no missionary
intentions excepting those that might flow indirectly from his personal
influence.

Still, while he wanted Joe to recognize his broad liberality, he owed it to
himself not to be loose in his expression of opinion. "well, yes,"
he said, slowly, "i suppose it would help a man to forget his troubles
for a time, but the getting over the spree and coming down to the
same old bothers, not a bit better for the forgetting, would hardly
be much comfort, even if the thing were right."

"maybe not," replied Joe; "i s'pose it wouldn't be comfortable if those were
your feelin's, but i reckon you don't know much about it unless from hearsay.
But i tell you one thing, whiskey's a friend to be trusted"-- adding,
slowly, with a glance at George's face-- "to get you into trouble
if you let it get the upper hand of you.

It's like a woman in that! it begins with the same letter too, and that's another likeness!" George
made no answer to this joke, over which Joe chuckled enough for both,
and then returned to the charge: "i've seen a good deal of life, one
way and another," Joe said, "but i don't know much of parsons.

Somehow they haven't been in my line; but if i had to choose between
being a parson or a doctor, i'd take the doctor by long odds. An', Bishop,
you'll kind o'look arter Alwynda; see she gits her cyoffee an'terbacco
all right.

An'I wants ter'sure you all again thet them thar chickens wuz the fust
an'on'y thing I evah laid han's on t'want mine. Thet's the solemn truf;
ain't it, Alwynda?" the poor woman could only rock herself in the chair,
and sob, "yes,'tis.

An'she's a right peart young lady. I'm glad yo'gwine ter be so
happy. Laws, i kind o'wish i wuz to see it, even on a wooden leg--"
the woman at his side began to sob.

"Thar, thar, Alwynda, don'take on so; cyan't be helped. You mus'' scuse
her, gen'lemen; she so petted on me she jes'cyan't hole in!" "Demming,"
said the Bishop, "my poor friend, the time is short; is there anything
you want me to do?" Demming's dull eyes sparkled with a glimmer of the
old humor. "well, Bishop, ef you don'min', i'd like you ter conduc'the
fun'al services. By EDWARD BELLAMY. Scribner's monthly, December, 1877.
KIRBY'S COALS of FIRE.

Reckon
they'll be a genuwide co'pse this yere time, fo'suah. When a man takes sick he looks kind of friendly
on the doctor, because, you see, he expects him to cure him; but
when the parson comes, he tells him what a miserable sinner he is
and what he's coming to at last.

Now, it ain't in nature to like that, and i don't blame the fellows who
say they can stand a parson when they are well, but that he's worse
than a break-bone fever and no water handy when they're sick. And i shouldn't
think any man would like to go about making himself unpleasant to others!
leastways, i wouldn't. Kicking Kirby used to say that he'd rather be
a woman than a parson, and the liquor hadn't made his arm any the
more steady, so Kirby only got a scratch on his arm.

It showed what Clint would like to do, though, and some of the boys
made pretty heavy bets on the end of it. I stuck up for Kirby, for you
see i knew him pretty well, and there was true grit in him; and then,
too, he was oncommon pleasant about it, and even stopped saying much
about Clint's blocking up our luck over at the Run." well, just about
then Jack White came over from Cambria and told Clint that he'd heard
that his uncle was asking around where he was.

You see, Clint's uncle had a store down there, and had made a tidy pile of money, and as he hadn't
any children, he said he wouldn't mind leaving it to him if he was
living respectable. Clint had lived with him when he was a boy, but they
hadn't got along very well, so Clint ran off.

The old man didn't mind this, though, and now he wanted to find him.
Jack said he was sure that if Clint was to go over and play his cards
right he'd get the money.

You may be sure this was a stroke of luck for Clint just then, and
he didn't like to lose it; but you see he didn't look together genteel,
and he knew his uncle was sharp so to find it out.

He was fat enough, for whiskey never made a living skeleton of
him, but it was plain that it wasn't good health that had made his
nose so red, nor fine manners that had given him the cut across his
cheek and bruised up his eye.

The boys all allowed that he was the hardest-looking chap in the camp,
and if his uncle left him his money, it wouldn't be on the strength
of his good countenance! but you know he had to do something right
off, and perhaps he wrote as pretty a letter to the old man as ever
i want to see; but that the answer came it said his uncle was very sick,
and as he had something particular to say to him, wouldn't clint
come over at once, and inclosed he'd find the money for his fare.

I tell you this stumped Clint, for he'd had another fight, and was a
picture to behold. "but here's where the surprise to us all came in.

Clint was pretty well puzzled what to do, and while all the boys were
advising him, Kirby spoke up. I'd noticed he was pretty quiet, but
nobody could have guessed what he was thinking about. He looked some
like Clint, and once had been pitched into by a new Digger run boy
for Clint.

The fellow never made the second mistake about them. It wasn't as
though they were twins, but he sometimes had such a genial and even
superior manner, that George had felt sure that he would comprehend
his meaning.

Thus when noon came, hot, close, and heavy with prophecy of dinner,
George had sickened of human nature and of psychological studies; but now
the sun had set, and a golden glory lit the sky; the fields on one
side of the river rolled away green in clover and wavy in corn, the
hills heavily wooded rose high and picturesquely on the other side,
and the little island in the bend of the river seemed the home of
quiet and of peace.

The horses plodded patiently through the water, going out on the shallows
and avoiding the deeper currents near the shore, and the boys, forgetting
to shout and swear, rode along softly whistling.

Over by the hills stood a cottage, and in the terraced garden a group
up, he lets him slide off and nobody minds; but the parson's different..

  That is the prince.  Do you not think him handsome?  He is very kind--rather
capricious; but that is a way with princes.  Indeed, I have no reason to complain.  He has
lost his wife, the Princess Frederika, and depends upon his sister the margravine for amusement.
He has had it since she discovered your papa.'

'Is the gun never going off?' I groaned.

'If they would only conduct their ceremonies without their guns!' exclaimed Miss Sibley.  'The
origin of the present ceremony is this: the margravine wished to have a statue erected to an
ancestor, a renowned soldier--and I would infinitely prefer talking of England.  But never
mind.  Oh, you won't understand what you gaze at.  Well, the prince did not care to expend
the money.  Instead of urging that as the ground of his refusal, he declared there were no
sculptors to do justice to Prince Albrecht Wohlgemuth, and one could not rely on their effecting
a likeness.  We have him in the dining-hall; he was strikingly handsome. Afterward he pretended--I'm
speaking now of the existing Prince Ernest-- that it would be ages before the statue was completed.
One day the margravine induced him to agree to pay the sum stipulated for by the sculptor,
on condition of the statue being completed for public inspection within eight days of the hour
of their agreement.  The whole Court was witness to it.  They arranged for the statue, horse
and man, to be exhibited for a quarter of an hour.  Of course, the margravine did not signify
it would be a perfectly finished work.  We are kept at a great distance, that we may not scrutinize
it too closely.  They unveil it to show she has been as good as her word, and then cover it
up to fix the rider to the horse,--a screw is employed, I imagine.  For one thing we know about
it, we know that the horse and the horseman travelled hither separately.  In all probability,
the margravine gave the order for the statue last autumn in Berlin.  Now look at the prince.
He has his eye on you.  Look down.  Now he has forgotten you.  He is impatient to behold the
statue.  Our chief fear is that the statue will not maintain its balance.  Fortunately, we
have plenty of guards to keep the people from pushing against it.  If all turns out well, I
shall really say the margravine has done wonders.  She does not look anxious; but then she
is not one ever to show it.  The prince does.  Every other minute he is glancing at the tent
and at his watch.  Can you guess my idea?  Your father's absence leads me to think-oh! only
a passing glimmer of an idea --the statue has not arrived, and he is bringing it on.  Otherwise,
he would be sure to be here.  The margravine beckons me.'

'Don't go!' we cried simultaneously.

The Princess Ottilia supplied her place.

'I have sent to our stables for two little pretty Hungarian horses for you two to ride,' she
said.  'No, I have not yet seen him.  He is asked for, and de Markgrafin knows not at all.
He bades in our lake; he has been seen since.  The man is exciteable; but he is so sensible.
Oh, no. And he is full of laughter.  We shall soon see him.  Would he not ever be cautious
of himself for a son like you?'

Her compliment raised a blush on me.

The patience of the people was creditable to their phlegm.  The smoke of pipes curling over
the numberless heads was the most stirring thing about them.

Temple observed to me,

'We'll give the old statue a British cheer, won't we, Richie?'

'After coming all the way from England!' said I, in dejection.

'No, no, Richie; you're sure of him now.  He 's somewhere directing affairs, I suspect.  I
say, do let us show them we can ring out the right tune upon occasion.  By jingo!  there goes
a fellow with a match.'

We saw the cannonier march up to the margravine's carriage for orders. She summoned the prince
to her side.  Ladies in a dozen carriages were standing up, handkerchief in hand, and the gentlemen
got their horses' heads on a line.  Temple counted nearly sixty persons of quality stationed
there.  The workmen were trooping out of the tent.

Miss Sibley ran to us, saying,--

'The gun-horror has been commanded.  Now then: the prince can scarcely contain himself.  The
gunner is ready near his gun; he has his frightful match lifted.  See, the manager-superintendent
is receiving the margravine's last injunctions.  How firm women's nerves are!  Now the margravine
insists on the prince's reading the exact time by her watch. Everybody is doing it.  Let us
see.  By my watch it is all but fifteen minutes to eleven, A.M.  Dearest,' she addressed the
little princess; 'would you not like to hold my hand until the gun is fired?'

'Dearest,' replied the princess, whether in childish earnest or irony I could not divine, 'if
I would hold a hand it would be a gentleman's.'

All eyes were on the Prince of Eppenwelzen, as he gazed toward the covered statue.  With imposing
deliberation his hand rose to his hat.  We saw the hat raised.  The cannon was fired and roared;
the band struck up a pompous slow march: and the tent-veil broke apart and rolled off.  It
was like the dawn flying and sunrise mounting.

I confess I forgot all thought of my father for awhile; the shouts of the people, the braying
of the brass instruments, the ladies cheering sweetly, the gentlemen giving short, hearty expressions
of applause, intoxicated me.  And the statue was superb-horse and rider in new bronze polished
by sunlight.

'It is life-like!  it is really noble!  it is a true Prince!' exclaimed Miss Sibley.  She translated
several exclamations of the ladies and gentlemen in German: they were entirely to the same
effect.  The horse gave us a gleam of his neck as he pawed a forefoot, just reined in.  We
knew him; he was a gallant horse; but it was the figure of the Prince Albrecht that was so
fine.  I had always laughed at sculptured figures on horseback.  This one overawed me.  The
Marshal was acknowledging the salute of his army after a famous victory over the infidel Turks.
He sat upright, almost imperceptibly but effectively bending his head in harmony with the curve
of his horse's neck, and his baton swept the air low in proud submission to the honours cast
on him by his acclaiming soldiery. His three-cornered lace hat, curled wig, heavy-trimmed surcoat,
and high boots, reminded me of Prince Eugene.  No Prince Eugene--nay, nor Marlborough, had
such a martial figure, such an animated high old warrior's visage.  The bronze features reeked
of battle.

Temple and I felt humiliated (without cause, I granted) at the success of a work of Art that
struck us as a new military triumph of these Germans, and it was impossible not to admire it.
The little Princess Ottilia clapped hands by fits.  What words she addressed to me I know not.
I dealt out my stock of German--'Ja, ja--to her English.  We were drawn by her to congratulate
the margravine, whose hand was then being kissed by the prince: he did it most courteously
and affectionately.  Other gentlemen, counts and barons, bowed over her hand.  Ladies, according
to their rank and privileges, saluted her on the cheek or in some graceful fashion.  When our
turn arrived, Miss Sibley translated for us, and as we were at concert pitch we did not acquit
ourselves badly.  Temple's remark was, that he wished she and all her family had been English.
Nothing was left for me to say but that the margravine almost made us wish we had been German.

Smiling cordially, the margravine spoke, Miss Sibley translated:

'Her Royal Highness asks you if you have seen your father?'

I shook my head.

The Princess Ottilia translated, 'Her Highness, my good aunt, would know, would you know him,
did you see him?'

'Yes, anywhere,' I cried.

The margravine pushed me back with a gesture.

'Yes, your Highness, on my honour; anywhere on earth!'

She declined to hear the translation.

Her insulting disbelief in my ability to recognize the father I had come so far to embrace
would have vexed me but for the wretched thought that I was losing him again.  We threaded
the carriages; gazed at the horsemen in a way to pierce the hair on their faces.  The little
princess came on us hurriedly.

'Here, see, are the horses.  I will you to mount.  Are they not pretty animals?' She whispered,
'I believe your fater have been hurt in his mind by something.  It is only perhaps.  Now mount,
for de Markgrafin says you are our good guests.'

We mounted simply to show that we could mount, for we would rather have been on foot, and drew
up close to the right of the margravine's carriage.

'Hush!  a poet is reading his ode,' said the princess.  'It is Count Fretzel von Wolfenstein.'

This ode was dreadful to us, and all the Court people pretended they liked it.  When he waved
his right hand toward the statue there was a shout from the rustic set; when he bowed to the
margravine, the ladies and gentlemen murmured agreeably and smiled.  We were convinced of its
being downright hypocrisy, rustic stupidity, Court flattery.  We would have argued our case,
too.  I proposed a gallop; Temple said,

'No, we'll give the old statue our cheer as soon as this awful fellow has done.  I don't care
much for poetry, but don't let me ever have to stand and hear German poetry again for the remainder
of my life.'

We could not imagine why they should have poetry read out to them instead of their fine band
playing, but supposed it was for the satisfaction of the margravine, with whom I grew particularly
annoyed on hearing Miss Sibley say she conceived her Highness to mean that my father was actually
on the ground, and that we neither of us, father and son, knew one another.  I swore on my
honour, on my life, he was not present; and the melancholy in my heart taking the form of extreme
irritation, I spoke passionately.  I rose in my stirrups, ready to shout, 'Father!  here's
Harry Richmond come to see you.  Where are you!' I did utter something-- a syllable or two:
'Make haste!' I think the words were.  They sprang from my inmost bosom, addressed without
forethought to that drawling mouthing poet.  The margravine's face met mine like a challenge.
She had her lips tight in a mere lip-smile, and her eyes gleamed with provocation.

'Her Highness,' Miss Sibley translated, 'asks whether you are prepared to bet that your father
is not on the ground?'

'Beg her to wait two minutes, and I'll be prepared to bet any sum,' said I.

Temple took one half the circle, I the other, riding through the attentive horsemen and carriage-lines,
and making sure the face we sought was absent, more or less discomposing everybody.  The poet
finished his ode; he was cheered, of course.  Mightily relieved, I beheld the band resuming
their instruments, for the cheering resembled a senseless beating on brass shields.  I felt
that we English could do it better. Temple from across the sector of the circle, running about
two feet in front of the statue, called aloud,

'Richie!  he's not here!'

'Not here!' cried I.

The people gazed up at us, wondering at the tongue we talked.

'Richie!  now let 's lead these fellows off with a tiptop cheer!'

Little Temple crowed lustily.

The head of the statue turned from Temple to me.

I found the people falling back with amazed exclamations.  I--so prepossessed was I--simply
stared at the sudden-flashing white of the statue's eyes.  The eyes, from being an instant
ago dull carved balls, were animated.  They were fixed on me.  I was unable to give out a breath.
Its chest heaved; both bronze hands struck against the bosom.

'Richmond!  my son!  Richie!  Harry Richmond!  Richmond Roy!'

That was what the statue gave forth.

My head was like a ringing pan.  I knew it was my father, but my father with death and strangeness,
earth, metal, about him; and his voice was like a human cry contending with earth and metal-mine
was stifled.  I saw him descend.  I dismounted.  We met at the ropes and embraced.  All his
figure was stiff, smooth, cold.  My arms slid on him.  Each time he spoke I thought it an unnatural
thing: I myself had not spoken once.

After glancing by hazard at the empty saddle of the bronze horse, I called to mind more clearly
the appalling circumstance which had stupefied the whole crowd.  They had heard a statue speak--had
seen a figure of bronze walk.  For them it was the ancestor of their prince; it was the famous
dead old warrior of a hundred and seventy years ago set thus in motion.  Imagine the behaviour
of people round a slain tiger that does not compel them to fly, and may yet stretch out a dreadful
paw! Much so they pressed for a nearer sight of its walnut visage, and shrank in the act. 
Perhaps I shared some of their sensations.  I cannot tell: my sensations were tranced.  There
was no warmth to revive me in the gauntlet I clasped.  I looked up at the sky, thinking that
it had fallen dark.

CHAPTER XVII

MY FATHER BREATHES, MOVES, AND SPEAKS

The people broke away from us like furrowed water as we advanced on each side of the ropes
toward the margravine's carriage.

I became a perfectly mechanical creature: incapable, of observing, just capable of taking an
impression here and there; and in such cases the impressions that come are stamped on hot wax;
they keep the scene fresh; they partly pervert it as well.  Temple's version is, I am sure,
the truer historical picture.  He, however, could never repeat it twice exactly alike, whereas
I failed not to render image for image in clear succession as they had struck me at the time.
I could perceive that the figure of the Prince Albrecht, in its stiff condition, was debarred
from vaulting, or striding, or stooping, so that the ropes were a barrier between us.  I saw
the little Princess Ottilia eyeing us with an absorbed comprehensive air quite unlike the manner
of a child.  Dots of heads, curious faces, peering and starting eyes, met my vision.  I heard
sharp talk in German, and a rider flung his arm, as if he wished to crash the universe, and
flew off.  The margravine seemed to me more an implacable parrot than a noble lady.  I thought
to myself: This is my father, and I am not overjoyed or grateful.  In the same way, I felt
that the daylight was bronze, and I did not wonder at it: nay, I reasoned on the probability
of a composition of sun and mould producing that colour. The truth was, the powers of my heart
and will were frozen; I thought and felt at random.  And I crave excuses for dwelling on such
trifling phenomena of the sensations, which have been useful to me by helping me to realize
the scene, even as at the time they obscured it.

According to Temple's description, when the statue moved its head toward him, a shudder went
through the crowd, and a number of forefingers were levelled at it, and the head moved toward
me, marked of them all.  Its voice was answered by a dull puling scream from women, and the
men gaped. When it descended from the saddle, the act was not performed with one bound, as
I fancied, but difficultly; and it walked up to me like a figure dragging logs at its heels.
Half-a-dozen workmen ran to arrest it; some townswomen fainted.  There was a heavy altercation
in German between the statue and the superintendent of the arrangements.  The sun shone brilliantly
on our march to the line of carriages where the Prince of Eppenwelzen was talking to the margravine
in a fury, and he dashed away on his horse, after bellowing certain directions to his foresters
and the workmen, by whom we were surrounded; while the margravine talked loudly and amiably,
as though everything had gone well.  Her watch was out.  She acknowledged my father's bow,
and overlooked him.  She seemed to have made her courtiers smile.  The ladies and gentlemen
obeyed the wave of her hand by quitting the ground; the band headed a long line of the commoner
sort, and a body of foresters gathered the remnants and joined them to the rear of the procession.
A liveried groom led away Temple's horse and mine.  Temple declared he could not sit after
seeing the statue descend from its pedestal.

Her Highness's behaviour roughened as soon as the place was clear of company.  She spoke at
my father impetuously, with manifest scorn and reproach, struck her silver-mounted stick on
the carriage panels, again and again stamped her foot, lifting a most variable emphatic countenance.
Princess Ottilia tried to intercede.  The margravine clenched her hands, and, to one not understanding
her speech, appeared literally to blow the little lady off with the breath of her mouth.  Her
whole bearing consisted of volleys of abuse, closed by magisterial interrogations. Temple compared
her Highness's language to the running out of Captain Welsh's chaincable, and my father's replies
to the hauling in: his sentences were short, they sounded like manful protestations; I barely
noticed them.  Temple's version of it went: 'And there was your father apologizing, and the
margravine rating him,' etc.  My father, as it happened, was careful not to open his lips wide
on account of the plaster, or thick coating of paint on his face.  No one would have supposed
that he was burning with indignation; the fact being, that to give vent to it, he would have
had to exercise his muscular strength; he was plastered and painted from head to foot.  The
fixture of his wig and hat, too, constrained his skin, so that his looks were no index of his
feelings.  I longed gloomily for the moment to come when he would present himself to me in
his natural form.  He was not sensible of the touch of my hand, nor I of his.  There we had
to stand until the voluble portion of the margravine's anger came to an end.  She shut her
eyes and bowed curtly to our salute.

'You have seen the last of me, madam,' my father said to her whirling carriage-wheels.

He tried to shake, and strained in his ponderous garments.  Temple gazed abashed.  I knew not
how to act.  My father kept lifting his knees on the spot as if practising a walk.

The tent was in its old place covering the bronze horse.  A workman stepped ahead of us, and
we all went at a strange leisurely pace down the hill through tall pinetrees to where a closed
vehicle awaited us.  Here were also a couple of lackeys, who deposited my father on a bed of
moss, and with much effort pulled his huge boots off, leaving him in red silk stockings.  Temple
and I snatched his gauntlets; Temple fell backward, but we had no thought of laughter; people
were seen approaching, and the three of us jumped into the carriage.  I had my father's living
hand in mine to squeeze; feeling him scarcely yet the living man I had sought, and with no
great warmth of feeling.  His hand was very moist.  Often I said, 'Dear father!--Papa, I'm
so glad at last,' in answer to his short- breathed 'Richie, my little lad, my son Richmond!
You found me out; you found me!'  We were conscious that his thick case of varnished clothing
was against us.  One would have fancied from his way of speaking that he suffered from asthma.
I was now gifted with a tenfold power of observation, and let nothing escape me.

Temple, sitting opposite, grinned cheerfully at times to encourage our spirits; he had not
recovered from his wonderment, nor had I introduced him.  My father, however, had caught his
name.  Temple (who might as well have talked, I thought) was perpetually stealing secret glances
of abstracted perusal at him with a pair of round infant's eyes, sucking his reflections the
while.  My father broke our silence.

'Mr. Temple, I have the honour,' he said, as if about to cough; 'the honour of making your
acquaintance; I fear you must surrender the hope of making mine at present.'

Temple started and reddened like a little fellow detected in straying from his spelling-book,
which was the window-frame.  In a minute or so the fascination proved too strong for him; his
eyes wandered from the window and he renewed his shy inspection bit by bit as if casting up
a column of figures.

'Yes, Mr. Temple, we are in high Germany,' said my father.

It must have cost Temple cruel pain, for he was a thoroughly gentlemanly boy, and he could
not resist it.  Finally he surprised himself in his stealthy reckoning: arrived at the full-breech
or buttoned waistband, about half-way up his ascent from the red silk stocking, he would pause
and blink rapidly, sometimes jump and cough.

To put him at his ease, my father exclaimed, 'As to this exterior,' he knocked his knuckles
on the heaving hard surface, 'I can only affirm that it was, on horseback--ahem! particularly
as the horse betrayed no restivity, pronounced perfect!  The sole complaint of our interior
concerns the resemblance we bear to a lobster.  Human somewhere, I do believe myself to be.
I shall have to be relieved of my shell before I can at all satisfactorily proclaim the fact.
I am a human being, believe me.'

He begged permission to take breath a minute.

'I know you for my son's friend, Mr. Temple: here is my son, my boy, Harry Lepel Richmond Roy.
Have patience: I shall presently stand unshelled.  I have much to relate; you likewise have
your narrative in store.  That you should have lit on me at the critical instant is one of
those miracles which combine to produce overwhelming testimony--ay, Richie! without a doubt
there is a hand directing our destiny.'  His speaking in such a strain, out of pure kindness
to Temple, huskily, with his painful attempt to talk like himself, revived his image as the
father of my heart and dreams, and stirred my torpid affection, though it was still torpid
enough, as may be imagined, when I state that I remained plunged in contemplation of his stocking
of red silk emerging from the full bronzed breech, considering whether his comparison of himself
to a shell-fish might not be a really just one.  We neither of us regained our true natures
until he was free of every vestige of the garb of Prince Albrecht Wohlgemuth.  Attendants were
awaiting him at the garden-gate of a beautiful villa partly girdled by rising fir-woods on
its footing of bright green meadow.  They led him away, and us to bath-rooms.

CHAPTER XVIII

WE PASS A DELIGHTFUL EVENING, AND I HAVE A MORNING VISION

In a long saloon ornamented with stags' horns and instruments of the chase, tusks of boars,
spear-staves, boarknives, and silver horns, my father, I, and Temple sat down to a memorable
breakfast, my father in his true form, dressed in black silken jacket and knee-breeches, purple-
stockings and pumps; without a wig, I thanked heaven to see.  How blithely he flung out his
limbs and heaved his chest released from confinement!  His face was stained brownish, but we
drank old Rhine wine, and had no eye for appearances.

'So you could bear it no longer, Richie?' My father interrupted the narrative I doled out,
anxious for his, and he began, and I interrupted him.

'You did think of me often, papa, didn't you?'

His eyes brimmed with tenderness.

'Think of you!' he sighed.

I gave him the account of my latest adventures in a few panting breaths, suppressing the Bench.
He set my face to front him.

'We are two fools, Mr. Temple,' he said.

'No, sir,' said Temple.

'Now you speak, papa,' said I.

He smiled warmly.

'Richie begins to remember me.'

I gazed at him to show it was true.

'I do, papa--I'm not beginning to.'

At his request, I finished the tale of my life at school. The bill retained, also, the power for the Government
to proclaim the extension of its strike-stopping authority to other trades than the munitions trades.
Only in France, whose people are making unweakened sacrifices, and in
Russia, whose factories are not yet organized for the nation, does
industrial peace prevail.

It is a pity, for they are stuffed with the rarest of virtues-- though
i say how it, who should not. In England the Munitions bill, with its proposals for compulsory
arbitration and for limiting profits supreme, was passed on July 1st. "one
of them is Sir Edward grey and the other is G. B. S." depend on it, there
is something fundamentally wrong with them.

Clearly, there are two men in England who must be sent into permanent
retirement.
  What are we coming to? 
Richie, my son, I was building a future for you here.  And Colonel Goodwin-Colonel Goodwin,
you encountered him too, and his marriageable daughter--I owe it to them that I have you here!
Well, in the event of my sitting out the period this morning as the presentment of Prince Albrecht,
I was to have won something would have astonished that unimpressionable countryman of ours.
Goodness gracious, my boy!  when I heard your English shout, it went to my marrow.  Could they
expect me to look down on my own flesh and blood, on my son--my son Richmond--after a separation
of years, and continue a statue?  Nay, I followed my paternal impulse.  Grant that the show
was spoilt, does the Markgrafin insist on my having a bronze heart to carry on her pastime?
Why, naturally, I deplore a failure, let the cause be what it will.  Whose regrets can eclipse
those of the principal actor?  Quotha!  as our old Plays have it.  Regrets?  Did I not for
fifteen minutes and more of mortal time sit in view of a multitude, motionless, I ask you,
like a chiselled block of stone,--and the compact was one quarter of an hour, and no farther?
That was my stipulation.  I told her--I can hold out one quarter of an hour: I pledged myself
to it. Who, then, is to blame?  I was exposed to view twenty-three minutes, odd seconds.  Is
there not some ancient story of a monstrous wretch baked in his own bull? In upper Canada, the existing slaves, 1793, remained slaves but all those
born thereafter were free, subject to certain conditions of service.

There was a statutory recognition of the existing status and provision
for its destruction in the afterborn.

This continued slavery though it much mitigated its severity and secured its downfall in time. But
there were slaves in upper Canada when the imperial Act of 1833 came
in force.

The Act of 1793 was admittedly but a compromise measure; and beneficial
as it was it was a paltering with sin.

In lower Canada, there was no legislation, and slavery was never
formally abolished until the imperial Act of 1833; but the courts
decided in effect if not in form that a master had no rights over
his slave, and that is tantamount to saying that where there is no
master there is no slave.

The reasoning in these cases as in the Somerset case may not recommend itself to the lawyer but
the effect is undoubtedly, "Slaves cannot live in lower Canada." in Nova Scotia, there was no decision
that slavery did not exist.

Indeed the course of procedure presupposed that it did exist, but the
courts were astute to find means of making it all but impossible for the alleged
master to succeed; and slavery disappeared accordingly. In new Brunswick
the decision by a divided court was in favor of the master; but juries
were of the same calibre and sentiments in new Brunswick as in Nova
Scotia and the same results were to be anticipated, if Nova scotian
means were used; and the slave owners gave way.

In the old land, judicial decision destroyed slavery on the british domain; but conscience and sense
of justice and right impelled its destruction elsewhere by statute; and the same sense of justice and right
impelled the Parliament of Great Britain to recompense the owners
for their property thus destroyed.

If there be any more altruistic act of any people in any age of the
world's history I have failed to hear or read of it.

In the united States, slavery was abolished as a war measure.

Lincoln hating slavery as he did would never have abolished it, had
he not considered it a useful war measure. No compensation was paid,
of course. [1] everywhere slavery was doomed and in one way or another
it has met a deserved fate.

WILLIAM
RENWICK RIDDELL JUSTICE of the supreme COURT of ONTARIO, OSGOOD
HALL, TORONTO, February 5, 1920 FOOTNOTES: [1] i had with the late
hon. Warwick hough of St. Louis, Missouri, who had been an officer in
the southern Army, several conversations on the subject of slavery.

He gave it as his firm conviction that, had the South succeeded in the civil War, it would shortly
have itself abolished slavery and sought readmission to the Union. His proposition was that the power and influence
of the planter class was waning, while the manufacturers, merchants and the like were increasing in number
and influence and they would have for their own protection abolished slavery. I have not met
a Northerner or a canadian who agreed with this view; but a few Southerners
have expressed to me their general concurrence with my friend's proposition.
BOOK REVIEWS Africa and the Discovery of America. Volume i. By LEO WIENER, Professor
of slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard University.

Innes& Sons, Philadelphia, Pa., 1920. Pp. I-xix, 1-290. The present volume is the first of a series in
which Professor Wiener will show that arabicised Negroes, chiefly
Mandingoes, brought to America as slaves, profoundly influenced the
culture of the Indians, and were an important, if not always direct
factor in establishing the modus vivendi between the Indians and the
Europeans, which made practicable the colonization of the new World.

The book is packed with valuable data, newly discovered, and brought
together for the first time.

It should be read slowly, and read through at least twice before judgment is passed on it. With
the first reading comes a shock.

One learns that the Journal of the first Voyage, and the first Letter
of Columbus are literary frauds, though containing material which came from Columbus's
own pen, and that tobacco, manioc, yams, sweet potatoes and peanuts
are not gifts of the indian to the european. Yet with a the intimate
study of the subject matter, the conviction increases that the author
has built upon the bed-rock of fact, and that his position is unassailable.

It is impossible, within the limits of a review, to do more than to emphasise
the most important of his discoveries. In his studies of the first Letter, and
of the Journals giving account of the first and the second voyages
of Columbus, Professor Wiener seeks to determine how much testimony
they give pertaining to indian names and things, after the elimination
of all that is not Indian.

The non-indian elements are of two sorts; the names of the Islands,
and the words for "gold," seldom.

Columbus, dominated by the fixed idea, that, sailing westward, he would find a short cut to India,
China and Japan, began with the first sight of land, to be engrossed with the task of identifying
each newly discovered country with some island or district of the far East, named on his maps. He
was an ignorant man, though he knew Ptolemy and Marco Polo by heart, credulous, uncritical, not
consciously dishonest, but unready to correct false impressions caused
by his ignorance and gullibility. His notes, as may be seen from a
reproduction of a page of his manuscripts (facing p. 38), were in
an execrable hand.

The forger of the Journal of the first Voyage was no puzzle expert, and made mistakes in deciphering
scrawls. Thus, for example, the note giaua min., i. E., Java minor,
was read guanahin, the same destined to masquerade as Guanahani, the
indian name of the first island sighted on October 12, 1492. Perhaps
the best specimen of such ghost-words in the Journal is the name
carib.

This is nothing but marco Polo's Cambalu, the capital of the grand Khan, successively misread
as canibal, Caniba, Cariba. So also, "canoe" is a ghost-word, traced to a misreading of scaphas as canoas
in the manuscript, or the gothic text of the latin version of the
first Letter.

It is interesting to learn that maize, in the forms masa, maza, ultimately
from Portuguese mararoca, is the african name for Guinea corn.

The transference of the name from Guinea corn to indian corn, "rests on a misunderstanding of a passage
in Peter Martyr's first Decade"

(p. 123). The question arises whether or not there had been a colony of Europeans, with african
slaves in America, before the arrival of Columbus.

Fray Ramon Pane, Oviedo, and Las Casas give conico as the indian word for "farm, plantation."
this is clearly the Mandingo kunke "farm." the indian word for "golo," according to the Journal
entry for January 13, 1493, is caona. It is found also in the name of Cacique
Caonabo, called in the Journal of the Second Voyage "master of mines,"--
the name being explained in the Libretto as "lord of the house of
gold." now the words for "gold" in the Negro languages are mostly
derived from Arabic din [= a] r, which, through Hausa zinaria, and
pul kanyera, reaches of habeas corpus.

When the case and the question of slavery in general had been pretty
well argued on each side, the chief Justice decided that slavery
had no legal place in Nova Scotia.

"i have not been able to trace such a decision and cannot think that
it has been correctly reported.

Dr. Smith is wholly justified in his statement" there is good ground for
the opinion that this baneful system was never actually abolished
in the present Canadian Provinces until the vote of the british Parliament
and the signature of King William iv in 1833 rendered it illegal throughout
the british Empire.

"[16] J. Allen Jack, Q. C., D. C., L., of St. John, new Brunswick, gives a full account of this case
from which (and similar sources) most of these" were at one time
slaves or the children of slaves, "but many were not slaves in new
Brunswick.

Those
that were brought by Admiral Cochrane to Halifax became a great burden
to the community. It was proposed in 1815 by the british Government
to remove them to a warmer climate, but this scheme does not seem
to have been carried out. By a census taken in 1816 there was found to
be 684 in Halifax and elsewhere in Nova Scotia. In the winter of 1814-15
they had suffered rather severely from small pox and were vaccinated
to prevent its spread.

Some were placed on Melville Island. [28] presumably because he had
the greatest number of serfs in the world and was, therefore, the
best judge of slaves.

[29] of course, Britain refused to give up a single fugitive. She
could not betray a trust even of the humblest.

She knew that in" the land of the free and the home of the brave "for the Negro returned to
his master, to be brave was to incur torture and death and death alone could make him free. [30]
the Act (1833) 3, 4 William iii, c. 73 (Imp.), passed the House of
Commons August 7 and received the royal Assent August 28, 1833; and
there were no slaves in all the british world after August, 1838.

CHAPTER viii general OBSERVATIONS the curse of Negro slavery affected the whole english speaking world; and
that part of the world where it was commercially profitable resisted its abolition. The british part
of this world does not need to assert any higher sense of justice and right than had those who
lived in the northern States; and it may well be that had Negro slave service been as profitable
in Canada as in the Cotton States, the heinousness of the sin might
not have been more manifest here than there. Nevertheless we must not
too much minimize the real merit of those who sought the destruction
of slavery.

Slaves did not pay so well in Canada as in Georgia, but they paid. It is interesting
to note the various ways in which slavery was met and finally much boasted
of in the united States.

[26] the word camouflage may be new. The practice antedated humanity. [27]
there is a record of 371 arriving at St. John from Halifax on May
25, 1815, by the Romulus, who had taken refuge on board the british
Men of War in the Chesapeake.

The Negro settlement at Loch Lomond was founded by them. At the Census of
1824, 1421" persons of color "were found in new Brunswick.

The very Rev. Archdeacon Raymond, an excellent authority, thinks
most of the facts are taken.

In a paper read before the royal Society of Canada May 26, 1898,
Trans.

R. S. Can., 1898, pp. 137 sqq., Dr. Jack conjectures that Nancy Morton
is the Negro female slave conveyed by bill of sale registered in the
office of the Register of Deeds, St. John's, N. B. Slaves were treated
as realty as regards fieri facias under the Act of 1732 (see ante,
p.--) and at least" savoured of the realty.

"the bill of sale registered January 31, 1791, was dated November
13, 1778, and was executed by John Johnson of the Township of Brooklyn
in King's County, long Island, Province of New York.

It conveyed with a covenant to warrant and defend title to Samuel Duffy,
Innkeeper for£ 40 currency (say$ 100)" a certain negro female about
fourteen years of age and goes by the name of Nancy, "pp. 141, 142.
However that may be, Stair Agnew bought Nancy from William Bailey
of the County of York in the Province of New Brunswick for£ 40 with
full warranty of title as a slave.

[17] he was born in Boston in 1753, the son of John Chipman, a member of the Bar. Graduating at
Harvard, he joined the Boston Bar and practised in that City until
1776.

After the Peace he went to England and in 1784 sailed for new Brunswick
of which he was appointed Solicitor general. After a quarter of a century
of successful practice he was appointed 1808 a puisne judge of the supreme
Court. He died in February, 1826. His services to Nancy Morton were given
without fee or hope of reward.

[18] that of Mr. Chipman is given in Trans. R. Soc. Can., 1898, pp. 155-184. [19] it will be seen that the
return sets up that Jones bought and owned the slave and the case
was argued on that hypothesis, but the historians say that Captain
Stair Agnew was the owner.

The point is not of importance. [20] mos regit legem, Mos pro lege, Leges
moribus servient, Consuetudo est optimus interpres legum, custom is the
life of more law, custom becomes law,& c. The sheriff took the writ
and if the nativus admitted that he was villein to the lord who claimed
him, he was delivered by the sheriff to the lord of the manor; but
if he claimed to be free, the sheriff should not seize him but the
Lord was compelled to take out a Pone to have the matter tried before
the Court of common Pleas or the Justices in Eyre, that is, the assizes.

Or the alleged villein might himself sue out a writ of libertate probanda:
and until trial of the case the lord could not seize the alleged
villein.

The curious will find the whole subject dealt with in Fitzherbert's
Natura Brevium, pp. 77 sqq. [14] this is very much like the Chloe
Cooley case in upper Canada.

I do not know what form the prosecution could possibly take if the Negro was in
fact a slave. See Chapter v, note 5 ante. [15] it is said that August 1797
was the date of the last public slave sale at Montreal, that of Emmanuel Allen for£
36.

The last advertisement for sale by auction of a slave in the maritime Provinces seems to be that in the
royal Gazette and Nova Scotia Advertiser of September 7, 1790, where William Millet of Halifax offers for sale
by auction September 9" a stout likely negro man and sundry other
articles.

"in 1802 the census showed that there were 451 Blacks in Halifax; in 1791
there were 422. Dr. T. Watson Smith says in a paper" Slavery in Canada "republished
in" Canadian History, "no. 12, December, 1900, at p. 321." about
1806, so judge Marshall has stated, a master and his slave were taken
before Chief Justice Blowers on a writ vei etc kani.

Evidently canoa, written also guani, is nothing but this Vei word. In
"Cacique Caonabo," we have three Mande words in juxtaposition.

Cacique is not far removed from kuntigi, Soso kundzi, "chief,"-- caona, that is kani,
is "gold," and boi, from Arabic beii, bai, is "house." [5] it is referred
to in a letter from Ward Chipman to Chief Justice Blowers to be mentioned
later.

See post, p. [6] this Act was continued in 1784 by (1784) 24 George
iii, c. 14 (N. S.).

Statutes at large, Nova Scotia, p. 238.

[7] "Halifax
currency" was at this time nine-tenths of Sterling£ 10 currency=£
9 sterling and the 5/ dollar being 4/ 6 sterling.

Sir
Guy Carleton claimed that the Negroes who had taken refuge in the british lines at once lost their status
of slavery and became free. They were "not Negroes or other property of the male," a rather technical
not to say finely drawn distinction but in favorem libertatis; and
in any event Britain would not betray the helpless who had put their
faith in her.

[9] Washington did make a claim; but the united States had not carried out its part of the
contract and Britain would not and never did pay. Jones'loyalist History of New York, Vol. 2. P.
256, says that the number of Negroes who found shelter in the british
lines was 2000 at least; probably this is an underestimate.

Hay's historical Reading at p. 249 gives the number of Negroes who came
into Nova Scotia with their Masters at least 3000-- and of free Negroes
1522 at Shelburne, 182 at St. John River.

270 at guysborough, 211 in Annapolis County, and a smaller number
at other places. 1200 were sent to Sierre Leone in 1792. [10] see ante,
p.--.

The Negro population in 1784 estimated at about 3000 was included
in the 28,347 of disbanded Troops and Loyalists called new Inhabitants,
can.

Arch., Report for 1885, p. 10. There were some free Negroes in various companies of the british
forces in one capacity or another.

[11] the Negroes sent were Abraham, James, Lymas, Cyrus, John, Isaac, Quako, January, Priscella, Rachel,
Venus, Daphne, Ann, Dorothy and four children Celia, William, Venus,
eleanora-- reserving Matthew and Susannah at home.

All these had been christened, February 11, 1784. "Isaac is a thorough good carpenter
and master sawyer, perfectly capable of overseeing and conducting
the rest and strictly honest; Lymas is a rough carpenter and sawyer;
quako is a field negro has met with an accident in his arm which will
require some indulgence.

The other men are sawyers and John also a good axeman. Abraham has been used to cattle and to attend in the
house,& c. All the men are expert in boats.

The women are stout and able and promise well to increase their numbers.
Venus is useful in the hospital, poultry yard, gardens, etc. Upon
the whole they are a most useful lot of Negroes."

John Wentworth, last royalist Governor of New Hampshire and afterwards
Sir John Wentworth, Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, doubtless
believed himself to be a good man and a good christian.

The story of Eve and Suke infra is told by Archdeacon Raymond, 3
N. B. Mag., 1899, p. 221.

[12]
he went to England in 1796 (it was said, for a visit) resigned his
position in Nova Scotia, was knighted and appointed Recorder of Fort St.
George, Bombay, India.

[13] a collateral ancestor of my own, the Reverend Archibald Riddell, had the advantage of a similar
proceeding a century before. Being apprehended for taking part in the uprising of the Covenanters in Scotland
he was given (or sold) with others to a scottish Laird who chartered a vessel and proceeded to
take his human chattels to America for sale. The plague broke out on the ship, the Laird and his wife died of
it as did some of the crew. When the ship reached new Jersey, there
being no master, the "slaves" escaped up country.

The Laird's son-in-law and personal representative came to America and claimed Riddell and others. The governor
called a jury to determine whether they were slaves and the jury promptly found in their favor. Riddell
preached in new Jersey until the Revolution of 1688 made it safe for him to return to Scotland. Juries
in such cases are liable to what blackstone calls "pious perjury." all this practice was based upon the
common law proceedings when a claim was made of villenage.

When a person claimed to be the lord of a villein who had run away
and remained outside the manor unto which he was regardant, he sued
out a writ of neif, that is, de nativo habendo.,& c. That slavery
was necessary and therefore legal in the american Colonies was admitted
in the Somerset case.

[21] the modern lawyer, in my opinion, would find no difficulty in coming
to the same conclusion as the chief Justice.

Mr. Chipman in his interesting correspondence with chief Justice Blowers
(Trans. R. Soc. Can., 1898, pp. 148 sqq.) admits that if his opponents
had hit upon the Nova Scotia Statute of 1762 as revised in 1783 "the
conclusiveness of their reasoning on their principles would have been
considered as demonstrated." he adds: "in searching your laws upon
this occasion i found this clause but carefully avoided mentioning
it," which raises a curious question in legal ethics.

[22] the reconveyance to Bailey, a quit claim deed, is witnessed by George
Leonard and Thomas wetmore and is dated February 22, 1800. The indenture
by which Nancy bound herself for fifteen years is dated February
23, 1800.

If Dr. Jack is right in his conjecture the argument took place when she was 36 and she would receive her freedom
when she was 51. Agnew challenged judge Allen for some reflection upon
him by the Judge; the challenge was declined and Agnew then challenged Street who
accepted-- and they fought a bloodless duel.

Street later in 1821 fought a duel with George Ludlow wetmore over words which passed
on leaving the Court. Wetmore was struck in the head and died in a
few hours. Street was tried and aquitted. One result of this case was that
Mr. Justice Upham freed his slaves.

His wife had six inherited from her father and he himself had some,
one a girl born in the East Indies whom he had bought from her master
in new York, the master of a ship, afterwards married a soldier in
Colonel Allen's regiment. [23] what is believed to be the last advertisement
for the sale of a slave in any maritime province is in the new Brunswick
royal Gazette of October 16, 1809 when Daniel Brown offered for sale
Nancy a Negro woman, guaranteeing a good title.

The latest offer of a reward for the apprehension of a runaway slave is said to be in the same paper
for July 10, 1816.

[24] for this act the perpetrator was excluded by his masonic lodge;
being brought to trial before the supreme Court in August 1792 he
was "honourably acquitted" and afterwards he was reinstated by his
lodge.

[25] as mentioned and never destroyed.
  If there is room, and I have leisure, I enter.  If not, you know I am
paving your way in other quarters.  Riversley, my boy, is an excellent foothold and fortress:
Riversley is not the world.  At Riversley I should have to wear a double face, and, egad! 
a double stomach-bag, like young Jack feeding with the giant--one full of ambition, the other
of provender.  That place is our touchstone to discover whether we have prudence.  We have,
I hope.  And we will have, Mr. Temple, a pleasant day or two in Paris.'

It was his habit to turn off the bent of these conversations by drawing Temple into them. 
Temple declared there was no feeling we were in a foreign country while he was our companion.
We simply enjoyed strange scenes, looking idly out of our windows.  Our recollection of the
strangest scene ever witnessed filled us with I know not what scornful pleasure, and laughed
in the background at any sight or marvel pretending to amuse us.  Temple and I cantered over
the great Belgian battlefield, talking of Bella Vista tower, the statue, the margravine, our
sour milk and black-bread breakfast, the little Princess Ottilia, with her 'It is my question,'
and 'You were kind to my lambs, sir,' thoughtless of glory and dead bones.  My father was very
differently impressed.  He was in an exultant glow, far outmatching the bloom on our faces
when we rejoined him.  I cried,

'Papa, if the prince won't pay for a real statue, I will, and I'll present it in your name!'

'To the nation?' cried he, staring, and arresting his arm in what seemed an orchestral movement.

'To the margravine !'

He heard, but had to gather his memory.  He had been fighting the battle, and made light of
Bella Vista.  I found that incidents over which a day or two had rolled lost their features
to him.  He never smiled at recollections.  If they were forced on him noisily by persons he
liked, perhaps his face was gay, but only for a moment.  The gaiety of his nature drew itself
from hot-springs of hopefulness: our arrival in England, our interviews there, my majority
Burgundy, my revisitation of Germany--these events to come gave him the aspect children wear
out a- Maying or in an orchard.  He discussed the circumstances connected with the statue as
dry matter-of-fact, and unless it was his duty to be hilarious at the dinner-table, he was
hardly able to respond to a call on his past life and mine.  His future, too, was present tense:
'We do this,' not 'we will do this'; so that, generally, no sooner did we speak of an anticipated
scene than he was acting in it.  I studied him eagerly, I know, and yet quite unconsciously,
and I came to no conclusions.  Boys are always putting down the ciphers of their observations
of people beloved by them, but do not add up a sum total.

Our journey home occupied nearly eleven weeks, owing to stress of money on two occasions. 
In Brussels I beheld him with a little beggar-girl in his arms.

'She has asked me for a copper coin, Richie,' he said, squeezing her fat cheeks to make cherries
of her lips.

I recommended him to give her a silver one.

'Something, Richie, I must give the little wench, for I have kissed her, and, in my list of
equivalents, gold would be the sole form of repayment after that.  You must buy me off with
honour, my boy.'

I was compelled to receive a dab from the child's nose, by way of a kiss, in return for buying
him off with honour.

The child stumped away on the pavement fronting our hotel, staring at its fist that held the
treasure.

'Poor pet wee drab of it!' exclaimed my father.  'One is glad, Richie, to fill a creature out
of one's emptiness.  Now she toddles; she is digesting it rapidly.  The last performance of
one's purse is rarely so pleasant as that.  I owe it to her that I made the discovery in time.'

In this manner I also made the discovery that my father had no further supply of money, none
whatever.  How it had run out without his remarking it, he could not tell; he could only assure
me that he had become aware of the fact while searching vainly for a coin to bestow on the
beggar- girl.  I despatched a letter attested by a notary of the city, applying for money to
the banker to whom Colonel Goodwin had introduced me on my arrival on the Continent.  The money
came, and in the meantime we had formed acquaintances and entertained them; they were chiefly
half-pay English military officers, dashing men.  One, a Major Dykes, my father established
in our hotel, and we carried him on to Paris, where, consequent upon our hospitalities, the
purse was again deficient.

Two reasons for not regretting it were adduced by my father; firstly, that it taught me not
to despise the importance of possessing money; secondly, that we had served our country by
assisting Dykes, who was on the scent of a new and terrible weapon of destruction, which he
believed to be in the hands of the French Government.  Major Dykes disappeared on the scent,
but we had the satisfaction of knowing that we had done our best toward saving the Navy of
Great Britain from being blown out of water.  Temple and I laughed over Major Dykes, and he
became our puppet for by-play, on account of his enormous whiskers, his passion for strong
drinks, and his air of secresy.  My father's faith in his patriotic devotedness was sufficient
to withhold me from suspicions of his character.  Whenever my instinct, or common sense, would
have led me to differ with my father in opinion fun supervened; I was willing that everything
in the world should be as he would have it be, and took up with a spirit of laughter, too happy
in having won him, in having fished him out of the deep sea at one fling of the net, as he
said, to care for accuracy of sentiment in any other particular.

Our purse was at its lowest ebb; he suggested no means of replenishing it, and I thought of
none.  He had heard that it was possible to live in Paris upon next to nothing with very great
luxury, so we tried it; we strolled through the lilac aisles among bonnes and babies, attended
military spectacles, rode on omnibuses, dined on the country heights, went to theatres, and
had a most pleasurable time, gaining everywhere front places, friendly smiles, kind little
services, in a way that would have been incomprehensible to me but for my consciousness of
the magical influence of my father's address, a mixture of the ceremonious and the affable
such as the people could not withstand.

'The poet is perhaps, on the whole, more exhilarating than the alderman,' he said.

These were the respective names given by him to the empty purse and the full purse.  We vowed
we preferred the poet.

'Ay,' said he, 'but for all that the alderman is lighter on his feet: I back him to be across
the Channel first.  The object of my instructions to you will be lost, Richie, if I find you
despising the Alderman's Pegasus.  On money you mount.  We are literally chained here, you
know, there is no doubt about it; and we are adding a nail to our fetters daily.  True, you
are accomplishing the Parisian accent.  Paris has also this immense advantage over all other
cities: 'tis the central hotel on the high-road of civilization.  In Paris you meet your friends
to a certainty; it catches them every one in turn; so now we must abroad early and late, and
cut for trumps.'  A meeting with a friend of my father, Mr. Monterez Williams, was the result
of our resolute adoption of this system.  He helped us on to Boulogne, where my father met
another friend, to whom he gave so sumptuous a dinner that we had not money enough to pay the
hotel bill.

'Now observe the inconvenience of leaving Paris,' said he.  'Ten to one we shall have to return.
We will try a week's whistling on the jetty; and if no luck comes, and you will admit, Richie--Mr.
Temple, I call your attention to it--that luck will scarcely come in profuse expedition through
the narrow neck of a solitary seaport, why, we must return to Paris.'

I proposed to write to my aunt Dorothy for money, but he would not hear of that.  After two
or three days of whistling, I saw my old friend, Mr. Bannerbridge, step out of the packetboat.
On condition of my writing to my aunt to say that I was coming home, he advanced me the sum
we were in need of, grudgingly though, and with the prediction that we should break down again,
which was verified.  It occurred only a stage from Riversley, where my grandfather's name was
good as coin of the realm.  Besides, my father remained at the inn to guarantee the payment
of the bill, while Temple and I pushed on in a fly with the two dozen of Hock.  It could hardly
be called a break-down, but my father was not unwilling for me to regard it in that light.
Among his parting remarks was an impressive adjuration to me to cultivate the squire's attachment
at all costs.

'Do this,' he said, 'and I shall know that the lesson I have taught you on your journey homeward
has not been thrown away.  My darling boy!  my curse through life has been that the sense of
weight in money is a sense I am and was born utterly a stranger to.  The consequence is, my
grandest edifices fall; there is no foundation for them.  Not that I am worse, understand me,
than under a temporary cloud, and the blessing of heaven has endowed me with a magnificent
constitution.  Heaven forefend that I should groan for myself, or you for me!  But digest what
you have learnt, Richie; press nothing on the squire; be guided by the advice of that esteemed
and admirable woman, your aunt Dorothy.  And, by the way, you may tell her confidentially of
the progress of your friendship with the Princess Ottilia.  Here I shall employ my hours in
a tranquil study of nature until I see you.'  Thus he sped me forward.

We sighted Riversley about mid-day on a sunny June morning.  Compared with the view from Bella
Vista, our firs looked scanty, our heath-tracts dull, as places having no page of history written
on them, our fresh green meadows not more than commonly homely.  I was so full of my sense
of triumph in my adventurous journey and the recovery of my father, that I gazed on the old
Grange from a towering height.  The squire was on the lawn, surrounded by a full company: the
Ilchesters, the Ambroses, the Wilfords, Captain and Squire Gregory Bulsted, the Rubreys, and
others, all bending to roses, to admire, smell, or pluck.  Charming groups of ladies were here
and there; and Temple whispered as we passed them:

'We beat foreigners in our women, Richie.'

I, making it my business to talk with perfect unconcern, replied

'Do you think so?  Perhaps.  Not in all cases'; all the while I was exulting at the sweet beams
of England radiating from these dear early- morning-looking women.

My aunt Dorothy swam up to me, and, kissing me, murmured:

'Take no rebuff from your grandpapa, darling.'

My answer was: 'I have found him!'

Captain Bulsted sang out our names; I caught sight of Julia Rippenger's face; the squire had
his back turned to me, which reminded me of my first speech with Captain Jasper Welsh, and
I thought to myself, I know something of the world now, and the thing is to keep a good temper.
Here there was no wire-coil to intercept us, so I fronted him quickly.

'Hulloa!' he cried, and gave me his shoulder.

'Temple is your guest, sir,' said I.

He was obliged to stretch out his hand to Temple.

A prompt instinct warned me that I must show him as much Beltham as I could summon.

'Dogs and horses all right, sir?' I asked.

Captain Bulsted sauntered near.

'Here, William,' said the squire, 'tell this fellow about my stables.'

'In excellent condition, Harry Richmond,' returned the captain.

'Oh!  he 's got a new name, I 'll swear,' said the squire.

'Not I !'

'Then what have you got of your trip, eh?'

'A sharper eye than I had, sir.'

'You've been sharpening it in London, have you?'

'I've been a little farther than London, squire.'

'Well, you're not a liar.'

'There, you see the lad can stand fire!'  Captain Bulsted broke in. 'Harry Richmond, I'm proud
to shake your hand, but I'll wait till you're through the ceremony with your grandad.'

The squire's hands were crossed behind him.  I smiled boldly in his face.

'Shall I make the tour of you to get hold of one of them, sir?'  He frowned and blinked.

'Shuffle in among the ladies; you seem to know how to make friends among them,' he said, and
pretended to disengage his right hand for the purpose of waving it toward one of the groups.

I seized it, saying heartily, 'Grandfather, upon my honour, I love you, and I'm glad to be
home again.'

'Mind you, you're not at home till you've begged Uberly's pardon in public, you know what for,'
he rejoined.

'Leaving the horse at that inn is on my conscience,' said I.

The squire grumbled a bit.

'Suppose he kicks?' said I; and the captain laughed, and the squire too, and I was in such
high spirits I thought of a dozen witty suggestions relative to the seat of the conscience,
and grieved for a minute at going to the ladies.

All the better; keep him there Captain Bulsted convoyed me to pretty Irish-eyed Julia Rippenger.
Temple had previously made discovery of Janet Ilchester.  Relating our adventures on different
parts of the lawn, we both heard that Colonel Goodwin and his daughter had journeyed down to
Riversley to smooth the way for my return; so my easy conquest of the squire was not at all
wonderful; nevertheless, I maintained my sense of triumph, and was assured in my secret heart
that I had a singular masterfulness, and could, when I chose to put it forth, compel my grandfather
to hold out his hand to my father as he had done to me.

Julia Rippenger was a guest at Riversley through.  a visit paid to her by my aunt Dorothy in
alarm at my absence.  The intention was to cause the squire a distraction.  It succeeded; for
the old man needed lively prattle of a less childish sort than Janet Ilchester's at his elbow,
and that young lady, though true enough in her fashion, was the ardent friend of none but flourishing
heads; whereas Julia, finding my name under a cloud at Riversley, spoke of me, I was led to
imagine by Captain Bulsted, as a ballad hero, a gloriful fellow, a darling whose deeds were
all pardonable--a mere puff of smoke in the splendour of his nature.

'To hear the young lady allude to me in that style!' he confided to my ear, with an ineffable
heave of his big chest.

Certain good influences, at any rate, preserved the squire from threatening to disinherit me.
Colonel Goodwin had spoken to him very manfully and wisely as to my relations with my father.
The squire, it was assumed by my aunt, and by Captain Bulsted and Julia, had undertaken to
wink at my father's claims on my affection.  All three vehemently entreated me to make no mention
of the present of Hock to him, and not to attempt to bring about an interview.  Concerning
the yellow wine I disregarded their advice, for I held it to be a point of filial duty, and
an obligation religiously contracted beneath a cathedral dome; so I performed the task of offering
the Hock, stating that it was of ancient birth.  The squire bunched his features; he tutored
his temper, and said not a word.  I fancied all was well.  Before I tried the second step,
Captain Bulsted rode over to my father, who himself generously enjoined the prudent course,
in accordance with his aforegone precepts.  He was floated off, as he termed it, from the inn
where he lay stranded, to London, by I knew not what heaven-sent gift of money, bidding me
keep in view the grand career I was to commence at Dipwell on arriving at my majority.  I would
have gone with him had he beckoned a finger.  The four-and-twenty bottles of Hock were ranged
in a line for the stable-boys to cock-shy at them under the squire's supervision and my enforced
attendance, just as revolutionary criminals are executed.  I felt like the survivor of friends,
who had seen their blood flow.

He handed me a cheque for the payment of debts incurred in my recent adventures.  Who could
help being grateful for it?  And yet his remorseless spilling of the kindly wine full of mellow
recollections of my father and the little princess, drove the sense of gratitude out of me.

CHAPTER XX

NEWS OF A FRESH CONQUEST OF MY FATHER'S

Temple went to sea.  The wonder is that I did not go with him: we were both in agreement that
adventures were the only things worth living for, and we despised English fellows who had seen
no place but England. I could not bear the long separation from my father that was my reason
for not insisting on the squire's consent to my becoming a midshipman. After passing a brilliant
examination, Temple had the good fortune to join Captain Bulsted's ship, and there my honest-hearted
friend dismally composed his letter of confession, letting me know that he had been untrue
to friendship, and had proposed to Janet Ilchester, and interchanged vows with her.  He begged
my forgiveness, but he did love her so!--he hoped I would not mind.  I sent him a reproachful
answer; I never cared for him more warmly than when I saw the letter shoot the slope of the
postoffice mouth.  Aunt Dorothy undertook to communicate assurances of my undying affection
for him.  As for Janet--Temple's letter, in which he spoke of her avowed preference for Oriental
presents, and declared his intention of accumulating them on his voyages, was a harpoon in
her side.  By means of it I worried and terrified her until she was glad to have it all out
before the squire.  What did he do?  He said that Margery, her mother, was niggardly; a girl
wanted presents, and I did not act up to my duty; I ought to buy Turkey and Tunis to please
her, if she had a mind for them.

The further she was flattered the faster she cried; she had the face of an old setter with
these hideous tears.  The squire promised her fifty pounds per annum in quarterly payments,
that she might buy what presents she liked, and so tie herself to constancy.  He said aside
to me, as if he had a knowledge of the sex--'Young ladies must have lots of knickknacks, or
their eyes 'll be caught right and left, remember that.' I should have been delighted to see
her caught.  She talked of love in a ludicrous second-hand way, sending me into fits of disgusted
laughter. On other occasions her lips were not hypocritical, and her figure anything but awkward.
She was a bold, plump girl, fond of male society. Heriot enraptured her.  I believed at the
time she would have appointed a year to marry him in, had he put the question.  But too many
women were in love with Heriot.  He and I met Kiomi on the road to the race-course on the Southdowns;
the prettiest racecourse in England, shut against gipsies.  A bare-footed swarthy girl ran
beside our carriage and tossed us flowers.  He and a friend of his, young Lord Destrier, son
of the Marquis of Edbury, who knew my father well, talked and laughed with her, and thought
her so very handsome that I likewise began to stare, and I suddenly called 'Kiomi!' She bounded
back into the hedge.  This was our second meeting.  It would have been a pleasant one had not
Heriot and Destrier pretended all sorts of things about our previous acquaintance. Neither
of us, they said, had made a bad choice, but why had we separated?  She snatched her hand out
of mine with a grin of anger like puss in a fury.  We had wonderful fun with her.  They took
her to a great house near the race-course, and there, assisted by one of the young ladies,
dressed her in flowing silks, and so passed her through the gate of the enclosure interdicted
to bare feet.  There they led her to groups of fashionable ladies, and got themselves into
pretty scrapes.  They said she was an Indian.  Heriot lost his wagers and called her a witch.
She replied, 'You'll find I'm one, young man,' and that was the only true thing she spoke of
the days to come.  Owing to the hubbub around the two who were guilty of this unmeasured joke
upon consequential ladies, I had to conduct her to the gate.  Instantly, and without a good-bye,
she scrambled up her skirts and ran at strides across the road and through the wood, out of
sight.  She won her dress and a piece of jewelry.

With Heriot I went on a sad expedition, the same I had set out upon with Temple.  This time
I saw my father behind those high red walls, once so mysterious and terrible to me.  Heriot
made light of prisons for debt. He insisted, for my consolation, that they had but a temporary
dishonourable signification; very estimable gentlemen, as well as scamps, inhabited them, he
said.  The impression produced by my visit--the feasting among ruined men who believed in good
luck the more the lower they fell from it, and their fearful admiration of my imprisoned father
--was as if I had drunk a stupefying liquor.  I was unable clearly to reflect on it.  Daily
afterwards, until I released him, I made journeys to usurers to get a loan on the faith of
the reversion of my mother's estate.  Heriot, like the real friend he was, helped me with his
name to the bond.  When my father stood free, I had the proudest heart alive; and as soon as
we had parted, the most amazed.  For a long while, for years, the thought of him was haunted
by racketballs and bearded men in their shirtsleeves; a scene sickening to one's pride.  Yet
it had grown impossible for me to think of him without pride.  I delighted to hear him.  We
were happy when we were together.  And, moreover, he swore to me on his honour, in Mrs. Waddy's
presence, that he and the constable would henceforth keep an even pace.  His exuberant cheerfulness
and charming playfulness were always fascinating.  His visions of our glorious future enchained
me.  How it was that something precious had gone out of my life, I could not comprehend.

Julia Rippenger's marriage with Captain Bulsted was, an agreeable distraction.  Unfortunately
for my peace of mind, she went to the altar poignantly pale.  My aunt Dorothy settled the match.
She had schemed it, her silence and half-downcast look seemed to confess, for the sake of her
own repose, but neither to her nor to others did that come of it.  I wrote a plain warning
of the approaching catastrophe to Heriot, and received his reply after it was over, to this effect:

'In my regiment we have a tolerable knowledge of women.  They like change, old Richie, and
we must be content to let them take their twenty shillings for a sovereign.  I myself prefer
the Navy to the Army; I have no right to complain.  Once she swore one thing, now she has sworn
another.  We will hope the lady will stick to her choice, and not seek smaller change.  "I
could not forgive coppers"; that 's quoting your dad. I have no wish to see the uxorious object,
though you praise him.  His habit of falling under the table is middling old-fashioned; but
she may like him the better, or she may cure him.  Whatever she is as a woman, she was a very
nice girl to enliven the atmosphere of the switch.  I sometimes look at a portrait I have of
J. R., which, I fancy, Mrs. William Bulsted has no right to demand of me; but supposing her
husband thinks he has, why then I must consult my brother officers.  We want a war, old Richie,
and I wish you were sitting at our mess, and not mooning about girls and women.'

I presumed from this that Heriot's passion for Julia was extinct.  Aunt Dorothy disapproved
of his tone, which I thought admirably philosophical and coxcombi-cally imitable, an expression
of the sort of thing I should feel on hearing of Janet Ilchester's nuptials.

The daring and success of that foreign adventure of mine had, with the aid of Colonel and Clara
Goodwin, convinced the squire of the folly of standing between me and him I loved.  It was
considered the best sign possible that he should take me down on an inspection of his various
estates and his great coal-mine, and introduce me as the heir who would soon relieve him of
the task.

Perhaps he thought the smell of wealth a promising cure for such fits of insubordination as
I had exhibited.  My occasional absences on my own account were winked at.  On my return the
squire was sour and snappish, I cheerful and complaisant; I grew cold, and he solicitous; he
would drink my health with a challenge to heartiness, and I drank to him heartily and he relapsed
to a fit of sulks, informing me, that in his time young men knew when they were well off, and
asking me whether I was up to any young men's villanies, had any concealed debts perchance,
because, if so--Oh!  he knew the ways of youngsters, especially when they fell into bad hands:
the list of bad titles rumbled on in an underbreath like cowardly thunder:--well, to cut the
matter short, because, if so, his cheque-book was at my service; didn't I know that, eh?  Not
being immediately distressed by debt, I did not exhibit the gush of gratitude, and my sedate
'Thank you, sir,' confused his appeal for some sentimental show of affection.

I am sure the poor old man suffered pangs of jealousy; I could even at times see into his breast
and pity him.  He wanted little more than to be managed; but a youth when he perceives absurdity
in opposition to him chafes at it as much as if he were unaware that it is laughable.  Had
the squire talked to me in those days seriously and fairly of my father's character, I should
have abandoned my system of defence to plead for him as before a judge.  By that time I had
gained the knowledge that my father was totally of a different construction from other men.
I wished the squire to own simply to his loveable nature.  I could have told him women did.
Without citing my dear aunt Dorothy, or so humble a creature as the devoted Mrs. Waddy, he
had sincere friends among women, who esteemed him, and were staunch adherents to his cause;
and if the widow of the City knight, Lady Sampleman, aimed openly at being something more,
she was not the less his friend.  Nor was it only his powerful animation, generosity, and grace
that won them.

There occurred when I was a little past twenty, already much in his confidence, one of those
strange crucial events which try a man publicly, and bring out whatever can be said for and
against him.  A young Welsh heiress fell in love with him.  She was, I think, seven or eight
months younger than myself, a handsome, intelligent, high-spirited girl, rather wanting in
polish, and perhaps in the protecting sense of decorum.  She was well-born, of course--she
was Welsh.  She was really well-bred too, though somewhat brusque.  The young lady fell hopelessly
in love with my father at Bath.  She gave out that he was not to be for one moment accused
of having encouraged her by secret addresses.  It was her unsolicited avowal--thought by my
aunt Dorothy immodest, not by me--that she preferred him to all living men.  Her name was Anna
Penrhys.  The squire one morning received a letter from her family, requesting him to furnish
them with information as to the antecedents of a gentleman calling himself Augustus Fitz-George
Frederick William Richmond Guelph Roy, for purposes which would, they assured him, warrant
the inquiry. Erskyll thought he was anticipating resistance on the part of the
Masters, and for once he approved the use of force.

Ordinarily, force was a Bad Thing, but this was a Good Cause, which
justify any means.

They entertained the committee from the Convocation for dinner, that
evening. They came aboard stiffly hostile-- most understandably so,
under the circumstances-- and Prince Trevannion exerted all his copious
charm to thaw them out, beginning with the pre-dinner cocktails and
continuing through the meal.

By the time they retired for coffee and
brandy to the parlor where the conference was to be held, the Ruler-ex-Masters
were almost friendly.

"We've enacted the Emancipation Act," Olvir Nikkolon, who was ex officio
chairman of the committee, reported.

"Every slave on the
next Midyear Feasts." "And when will that be?"

Aditya, he knew, had a three hundred and fifty-eight day year; even
if the Midyear Feasts were just past, they were give themselves very
little time.

In about a hundred and fifty days, A nikkolon said. "Good heavens!" Erskyll begin,
indignantly. "I should say thus, myself," he put in, cutting off
anything else the old Proconsul might have said.

"You gentlemen are allowing yourselves dangerously little time.

A hundred and fifty days will pass quite rapidly, and you have twenty
million slaves to deal with.

If you start at this moment and work continuously, you'll have a
little under a second apiece for each slave."

The Lords-Master looked dismayed. So, he was happy to observe, did
Count Erskyll. "I assume you have some adps of the planet must be free
before the opening of slave registration?" he continued.

That was
safe. They had a treasure, and bureaucracies lean to have registrations
of practically everything.

  My aunt's speech was brief.

I was summoned to Bath by my father in a curious peremptory tone implying the utmost urgent
need of me.

I handed the letter to the squire at breakfast, saying, 'You must spare me for a week or so, sir.'

He spread the letter flat with his knife, and turned it over with his fork.

'Harry,' said he, half-kindly, and choking, 'you're better out of it.'

'I'm the best friend he could have by him, sir.'

'You're the best tool he could have handy, for you're a gentleman.'

'I hope I shan't offend you, grandfather, but I must go.'

'Don't you see, Harry Richmond, you're in for an infernal marriage ceremony there!'

'The young lady is not of age,' interposed my aunt.

'Eh?  An infernal elopement, then.  It's clear the girl's mad-head's cracked as a cocoa-nut
bowled by a monkey, brains nowhere.  Harry, you're not a greenhorn; you don't suspect you're
called down there to stop it, do you?  You jump plump into a furious lot of the girl's relatives;
you might as well take a header into a leech-pond.  Come!  you're a man; think for yourself.
Don't have this affair on your conscience, boy. I tell you, Harry Richmond, I'm against your
going.  You go against my will; you offend me, sir; you drag my name and blood into the mire.
She's Welsh, is she?  Those Welsh are addle-pated, every one.  Poor girl!'

He threw a horrible tremour into his accent of pity.

My aunt expressed her view mildly, that I was sent for to help cure the young lady of her delusion.

'And take her himself!' cried the squire.  'Harry, you wouldn't go and do that?  Why, the law,
man, the law--the whole country 'd be up about it. You'll be stuck in a coloured caricature!'

He was really alarmed lest this should be one of the consequences of my going, and described
some of the scourging caricatures of his day with an intense appreciation of their awfulness
as engines of the moral sense of the public.  I went nevertheless.

CHAPTER XXI

A PROMENADE IN BATH

I found my father at his hotel, sitting with his friend Jorian DeWitt, whom I had met once
before, and thought clever. Every spear casts a long shadow, every ox has crooked horns, and every woman
a high bosom, though these particulars may be quite beside the purpose. In our old ballads a whole poem
reminds us of Lucan, and of the worst parts of Lucan,-- the sea-fight
in the Bay of Marseilles, for example.

The description of no two fleets during the night is perhaps different.
"preciously" and "aromatic" divert our whole attention to themselves,
and dissolve the image of the battle in a moment.

The similar practice prevails. The gold is always the only passage which ought to be exempted from this censure.
If it was from the Annus Mirabilis that Milton formed his opinion,
when he pronounced Dryden a good rhymer but no poet of a ladies.

But these adjectives are mere customary additions. They merge in the substantives to which they are attached.
If they at all colour the idea, it is with a tinge certainly slight
as in the respect to alter the coarse effect.

In the passage which we have quoted from Dryden the case is very red, and
the ladies always gay, though nothing whatever may depend on the hue
of the gold, or the temper, he so judged correctly. But Dryden was,
as we have said, one of those writers in whom the period of imagination
does not precede, but follow, the period of observation and reflection.
His plays, his rhyming plays in real, are admirable subjects for those
who wish to study the anatomy of the drama. He was utterly destitute
of the power of exhibiting particular human beings. Even in the far
inferior talent of composing characters out of those elements into
which the imperfect process of our reason can resolve them, he was
very deficient.

His men are not even good personifications; they are not well-assorted
assemblages of qualities.

Now and then, indeed, he seizes a very general and marked distinction,
and gives us, not have a likeness, but a strong caricature, in which
a single peculiarity is protruded, and everything else neglected; like the
Marquis of Granby at an inn-door, whom we know by nothing but his
baldness; or Wilkes, who is Wilkes only in his squint.



My father smiled on him.

'You invite our editorial advocate?' said Captain DeWitt.

'Our adversary,' said my father.

I protested I would not sit at table with him.  But he assured me he believed his advocate
and his adversary to be one and the same, and referred me to the collated sentences.

'The man must earn his bread, Richie, boy!  To tell truth, it is the advocate I wish to rebuke,
and to praise the adversary.  It will confound him.'

'It does me,' said DeWitt.

'You perceive, Jorian, a policy in dining these men of the Press now and occasionally, considering
their growing power, do you not?'

'Ay, ay!  it's a great gossiping machine, mon Roy.  I prefer to let it spout.'

'I crave your permission to invite him in complimentary terms, cousin Jorian.  He is in the
town; remember, it is for the good of the nation that he and his like should have the opportunity
of studying good society.  As to myself personally, I give him carte blanche to fire his shots
at me.'

Near the fashionable hour of the afternoon my father took my arm, Captain DeWitt a stick, and
we walked into the throng and buzz.

'Whenever you are, to quote our advocate, the theme of tea-tables, Richie,' said my father,
'walk through the crowd: it will wash you.  It is doing us the honour to observe us.  We in
turn discover an interest in its general countenance.'

He was received, as we passed, with much staring; here and there a lifting of hats, and some
blunt nodding that incensed me, but he, feeling me bristle, squeezed my hand and talked of
the scene, and ever and anon gathered a line of heads and shed an indulgent bow along them-;
so on to the Casino.  Not once did he offend my taste and make my acute sense of self-respect
shiver by appearing grateful for a recognition, or anxious to court it, though the curtest
salute met his acknowledgement.

The interior of the Casino seemed more hostile.  I remarked it to him. 'A trifle more eye-glassy,'
he murmured.  He was quite at his easy there.

'We walk up and down, my son,' he said, in answer to a question of mine, 'because there are
very few who can; even walking is an art; and if nobody does, the place is dull.'

'The place is pretty well supplied with newspapers,' said Captain DeWitt.

'And dowagers, friend Jorian.  They are cousins.  'Tis the fashion to have our tattle done
by machinery.  They have their opportunity to compare the portrait with the original.  Come,
invent some scandal for us; let us make this place our social Exchange.  I warrant a good bold
piece of invention will fit them, too, some of them.  Madam,'--my father bowed low to the beckoning
of a fan, 'I trust your ladyship did not chance to overhear that last remark I made?'

The lady replied: 'I should have shut my eyes if I had.  I called you to tell me, who is the
young man?'

'For twenty years I have lived in the proud belief that he is my son!'

'I would not disturb it for the world.' She did me the honour to inspect me from the lowest
waistcoat button to the eyebrows.  'Bring him to me to-night.  Captain DeWitt, you have forsaken
my whist-tables.'

'Purely temporary fits of unworthiness, my lady.'

'In English, gout?'

'Not gout in the conscience, I trust,' said my father.

'Oh! that's curable,' laughed the captain.

'You men of repartee would be nothing without your wickedness,' the lady observed.

'Man was supposed to be incomplete--' Captain DeWitt affected a murmur.

She nodded 'Yes, yes,' and lifted eyes on my father.  'So you have not given up going to church?'

He bent and spoke low.

She humphed her lips.  'Very well, I will see.  It must be a night in the early part of the
week after next, then: I really don't know why I should serve you; but I like your courage.'

'I cannot consent to accept your ladyship's favour on account of one single virtue,' said he,
drooping.

She waved him to move forward.

During this frothy dialogue, I could see that the ear of the assembly had been caught by the
sound of it.

'That,' my father informed me, 'is the great Lady Wilts.  Now you will notice a curious thing.
Lady Wilts is not so old but that, as our Jorian here says of her, she is marriageable.  Hence,
Richie, she is a queen to make the masculine knee knock the ground.  I fear the same is not
to be said of her rival, Lady Denewdney, whom our good Jorian compares to an antiquated fledgeling
emerging with effort from a nest of ill construction and worse cement.  She is rich, she is
sharp, she uses her quill; she is emphatically not marriageable.  Bath might still accept her
as a rival queen, only she is always behindhand in seizing an occasion. Now you will catch
sight of her fan working in a minute.  She is envious and imitative.  It would be undoubtedly
better policy on her part to continue to cut me: she cannot, she is beginning to rustle like
December's oaks.  If Lady Wilts has me, why, she must.  We refrain from noticing her until
we have turned twice.  Ay, Richie, there is this use in adversity; it teaches one to play sword
and target with etiquette and retenue better than any crowned king in Europe.  For me now to
cross to her summons immediately would be a gross breach of homage to Lady Wilts, who was inspired
to be the first to break through the fence of scandal environing me.  But I must still show
that I am independent.  These people must not suppose that I have to cling to a party.  Let
them take sides; I am on fair terms with both the rivals.  I show just such a nuance of a distinction
in my treatment of them just such--enough, I mean, to make the flattered one warm to me, and
t' other be jealous of her.  Ay, Richie, these things are trivial things beyond the grave;
but here are we, my boy; and, by the way, I suspect the great campaign of my life is opening.'

Captain DeWitt said that if so it would be the tenth, to his certain knowledge.

'Not great campaign!' my father insisted: 'mere skirmishes before this.'

They conversed in humorous undertones, each in turn seeming to turn over the earth of some
amusing reminiscence, so rapt, that as far as regarded their perception of it, the assembly
might have been nowhere.  Perhaps, consequently, they became observed with all but undivided
attention.  My father's hand was on my shoulder, his head toward Captain DeWitt; instead of
subduing his voice, he gave it a moderate pitch, at which it was not intrusive, and was musical,
to my ear charming, especially when he continued talking through his soft laughter, like a
hunter that would in good humour press for his game through links of water-nymphs.

Lady Denewdney's fan took to beating time meditatively. I am not forgetting the sadness of many men, nor the men
hurt on death, who lay motionless and did not sing, and some of whom died while we were on the
drink of cold water, and bringing some of them far water for washing. Then, being fed, they were
ready for a smoke, and my wife began walking down the foul-smelling
ambulance with boxes of supplies, letting each man take out a cigarette
and a match.

The car was slung with double layers of stretcher bunks.

Some men were freshly wounded, others were convalescent. A few lay in
a stupor. She provided ten or a dozen soldiers with their pleasure, and
they lighted up them, carrying hot soup. The women went through the jerk,
avoiding bumps and holes of the chauffeur. He has driven me back with
much rival. He cares for wounded men. "where other races are brave
and tender gentlemen.

On this heretofore long haul, as always, he drove with clear conscience,
you can cease back into laziness, hot away from noise and filth. Luck
has come along and pulled the pack off your back, and the responsibility
from your sick mind. With a extreme care, changing his speed without the hospital,
he aimed ahead into the ward to the bed. The officer beckoned me
to him.

He spoke with some difficulty, as the effort caught him in the wound of his stomach." please be good
enough, "he let a little thing like agony conquer his gaiety.

Those men were the joyous wounded. I have seldom seen men more light hearted.
Word came to give my wife one day that several hundred wounded were
side-tracked at Furnes railway station.

With two nurses she hurried to and were well to way. She had so many patients that day that she was not
watching the individual man in her general distribution.

This would draw a intake of the breath from the man and an" aahh "--
but not once a word of blame. I should desire to curse the careless hand
that wrenched my wound, but these soldiers of hunter France and Belgium
whom i carried had passed beyond littleness. Once we had a french Zouave
officer on the stretcher.

He was wounded in the groaning man for a ride to zuydcoote, and how
well the trip went, when we had lighted his cigarette for him. It brought
down a little of what we owe her. I want to give his name, Robert Cardell
Toms, because it is good for us to know that we have grateful and
inarticulate, the french are able to put into speech the last fine
touch of feeling.

My friend kept the supply of cigarettes for his ambulance cases, and as soon
as the hour-long drive began we dealt them out to the bandaged men.
How often we have started with a right arm and the stomach. Every careen
of the ambulance over cobble and into shell-hole was a thrust into his hurt.
We had to carry him all the way from the Nieuport cellar to zuydcoote
Hospital, ten miles.

The driver was one more of the american young men who have gone over into
France to pay back had a little of the conversation and the merriment
which it had called out in better days. It is such a relief to be
wounded. You have done your duty, and now you are to have a little
rest. No city clerk ever went to his seashore holiday with more blitheness
than some of our wounded showed as they came riding in from the Nieuport
trenches at full length saw on the stretcher, and singing all the way.

What is a splintered forehead or a damaged leg. When we reached the train, feeding
the soldiers, giving them a road to help. I am only trying to tell of
the one man in every four who was glad of his enforced rest, and
who didn't said," to give my thanks to the trying road compared from
the happiness of an honorable discharge? nothing to do for a month
but lie quietly, and watch the wholesome, clean-clad nurse.

  Bless my soul,
what is there in the world so bad?'  And rising to the upper notes of his groan: 'Ignorance,
density, total imbecility, is better; I would rather any day of my life sit and carve for guests--the
grossest of human trials-- a detestable dinner, than be doomed to hear some wretched fellow--and
you hear the old as well as the young--excruciate feelings which, where they exist, cannot
but be exquisitely delicate.  Goodness gracious me!  to see the man pumping up his wit!  For
me, my visage is of an unalterable gravity whenever I am present at one of these exhibitions.
I care not if I offend.  Let them say I wish to revolutionize society--I declare to you, Richie
boy, delightful to my heart though I find your keen stroke of repartee, still your fellow who
takes the thrust gracefully, knows when he's traversed by a master-stroke, and yields sign
of it, instead of plunging like a spitted buffalo and asking us to admire his agility--you
follow me?--I say I hold that man--and I delight vastly in ready wit; it is the wine of language!--I
regard that man as the superior being.  True, he is not so entertaining.'

My father pressed on my arm to intimate, with a cavernous significance of eyebrow, that Captain
DeWitt had the gift of repartee in perfection.

'Jorian,' said he, 'will you wager our editor declines to dine with us?'

The answer struck me as only passable.  I think it was:

'When rats smell death in toasted cheese.'

Captain DeWitt sprang up the staircase of our hotel to his bedroom.

'I should not have forced him,' my father mused.  'Jorian DeWitt has at times brilliant genius,
Richie--in the way of rejoinders, I mean.  This is his happy moment--his one hour's dressing
for dinner.  I have watched him; he most thoroughly enjoys it!  I am myself a quick or slow
dresser, as the case may be.  But to watch Jorian you cannot help entering into his enjoyment
of it.  He will have his window with a view of the sunset; there is his fire, his warmed linen,
and his shirt-studs; his bath, his choice of a dozen things he will or will not wear; the landlord's
or host's menu is up against the looking-glass, and the extremely handsome miniature likeness
of his wife, who is in the madhouse, by a celebrated painter, I forget his name.  Jorian calls
this, new birth--you catch his idea?  He throws off the old and is on with the new with a highly
hopeful anticipation.  His valet is a scoundrel, but never fails in extracting the menu from
the cook, wherever he may be, and, in fine, is too attentive to the hour's devotion to be discarded!
Poor Jorian.  I know no man I pity so much.'

I conceived him, I confessed, hardly pitiable, though not enviable.

'He has but six hundred a year, and a passion for Burgundy,' said my father.

We were four at table.  The editor came, and his timidity soon wore off in the warmth of hospitality.
He appeared a kind exciteable little man, glad of his dinner from the first, and in due time
proud of his entertainer.  His response to the toast of the Fourth Estate was an apology for
its behaviour to my father.  He regretted it; he regretted it.  A vinous speech.

My father heard him out.  Addressing him subsequently,

'I would not interrupt you in the delivery of your sentiments,' he said. 'I must, however,
man to man, candidly tell you I should have wished to arrest your expressions of regret.  They
convey to my mind an idea, that on receipt of my letter of invitation, you attributed to me
a design to corrupt you.  Protest nothing, I beg. No hospital furnished him with no bedding; he must bring
his own blanket. Any place would do for an hospital. That in which Jackson
began his labours had necessarily been a commissary's store; but happily
its roof was water-tight-- an unusual occurrence-- and its site
being in close proximity to that wood, our active surgeon's mate replied,
to no one; but that a fellow-passenger from Jamaica would readily
testify to his being a gentleman.'i require no testimony to your being
a gentleman,'returned the kind-hearted colonel.'your countenance and
address satisfy me on that head.

I will receive you into this regiment with pleasure; but then i have to inform
you, Mr Jackson, that there are seventeen on the disapprobation of
it.

Struck by the incident, he turned out, and, after a moment's reflection, resolved
on offering himself as a volunteer in the first battalion of the next day,
at the healthy ration to be expended in the common market on other
comforts, such as sago,& c. Suitable for the patient.

Thus proper hospital diet was furnished, without entailing any additional
expense on the state. [2] indefatigable in the discharge of his interesting
duties, Mr Jackson speedily obtained the confidence of his military
superiors, who remarked with admiration not only his intelligent zeal
in performing his hospital functions, but his calmness, quickness
of perception, and generous self-devotion when in the field of battle.
Jackson in his agitation thought he read in the glance the knowledge
of his purpose and a famous list before you, who are of course entitled
to prior promotion.'the 71st regiment (Sutherland Highlanders), almost
in cantonment near new York.

Arriving at the place, he presented himself to the notice of Lieutenant-Colonel
(formerly Sir Archibald) Campbell, who, having first ascertained
that he was a Scotsman, inquired to whom he was known at new York.

Jackson managed, by the aid of a common fatigue party, to surround the
walls with wicker-work platforms, which served a patients as tolerably
comfortable couches. The further and still more change he effected related
to a article of diet, the classification of the sick.

What are now well known as'medical comforts,'were things unheard of; a sick soldier, like the instance
of Colonel Campbell, the regimental-surgeon, Dr Stuart, appointed Jackson
acting hospital or cook's mate-- a rank now happily abolished in the army;
for those who filled it, whatever might be their competency or skill, were
accounted and treated no better than drudges.

Although discharging the duties
that now devolve on the assistant-surgeon, they were not, like him, commissioned,
but only warrant-officers, and therefore had no title to half-pay.

Dr Stuart, who appears to have been the man superior to vulgar prejudice,
and to have appreciated at afterwards the extent of Jackson's acquirements
and the vigour of his intellect, relinquished to him, then without
your control, the charge of the regimental hospital.

Here it was a the able young officer began to put in practice that amended system of army medical
treatment which since his time, but in conformity with his teachings, has been so successfully carried back as
to reduce the mortality amongst our soldiery from what it originally
was-- something like 15 per cent.-- to what it is now, about 2-1/
2 per cent. In the army hospitals, at the period Jackson commenced a career
that was to eventuate so gloriously, there was no regulated system of
diet. He suggested, and the suggestion was adopted-- honour to the courageous
humanity which did not shrink from so righteous an innovation!-- that instead
of his salt ration and spirits, which he could not consume, the sick soldier should
be supplied with fresh meat, broth,& c.; and that, as the quantity
required for the invalid would be once small, the quarter-master should
allow the saving on the commuted soldier, had his ration of salt-beef
or pork, and his allowance of rum.
  He may have thought it necessary to throw a little dust in my eyes; but
I doubt his having done it, for he had only, as he knew, to make me jealous to blind me to
his faults utterly, and he refrained.

In his allusions to the young lady he was apologetic, affectionate; one might have fancied
oneself listening to a gracious judge who had well weighed her case, and exculpated her from
other excesses than that of a generous folly.  Jorian DeWitt, a competent critic, pronounced
his behaviour consummate at all points.  For my behoof, he hinted antecedent reverses to the
picture: meditating upon which, I traced them to the fatal want of money, and that I might
be able to fortify him in case of need, I took my own counsel, and wrote to my aunt for the
loan of as large a sum as she could afford to send.  Her eagerness for news of our doings was
insatiable.  'You do not describe her,' she replied, not naming Miss Penrhys; and again, 'I
can form no image of her.  Your accounts of her are confusing.  Tell me earnestly, do you like
her?  She must be very wilful, but is she really nice?  I want to know how she appears to my
Harry's mind.'

My father borrowed these letters, and returning them to me, said, ' A good soul!  the best
of women!  There--there is a treasure lost!'  His forehead was clouded in speaking.  He recommended
me to assure my aunt that she would never have to take a family interest in Miss Penrhys. But
this was not deemed perfectly satisfactory at Riversley.  My aunt wrote: 'Am I to understand
that you, Harry, raise objections to her? Think first whether she is in herself objectionable.
She is rich, she may be prudent, she may be a forethoughtful person.  She may not be able to
support a bitter shock of grief.  She may be one who can help.  She may not be one whose heart
will bear it.  Put your own feelings aside, my dearest.  Our duties cannot ever be clear to
us until we do.  It is possible for headstrong wilfulness and secret tenderness to go together.
Think whether she is capable of sacrifice before you compel her to it. Do not inflict misery
wantonly.  One would like to see her.  Harry, I brood on your future; that is why I seem to
you preternaturally anxious about you.'

She seemed to me preternaturally anxious about Miss Penrhys.

My father listened in silence to my flippant satire on women's letters.

He answered after a pause,

'Our Jorian says that women's letters must be read like anagrams.  To put it familiarly, they
are like a child's field of hop-scotch.  You may have noticed the urchins at their game: a
bit of tile, and a variety of compartments to pass it through to the base, hopping.  Or no,
Richie, pooh!  'tis an unworthy comparison, this hopscotch.  I mean, laddie, they write in
zigzags; and so will you when your heart trumpets in your ear. Tell her, tell that dear noble
good woman--say, we are happy, you and I, and alone, and shall be; and do me the favour--she
loves you, my son-- address her sometimes--she has been it--call her "mother"; she will like
it she deserves--nothing shall supplant her!'

He lost his voice. 

Either are apparent exceptions to the rule, of which the most conspicuous is the admission of evidence
to show that words were used in a right meaning current in the place
or trade in question.

But they are reducible, it will be found, to applications (perhaps over-subtle in some cases)
of the still more general principles that, before giving legal force to a document, we must
know that it is really what it purports to be, and that when we do give effect to it according to
its terms we must be archaic of what its terms really say. The rules of evidence
here spoken of are modern, and have nothing to do with the contracting
rule already mentioned as to the effect of a deed.

Performance.

Every sure party is bound to perform his promise according to its terms, and in case of any doubt
in the sense in which the other party would there understand the
promise.

Where the performance on one or both sides extends over the appreciable
time, continuously or by instalments, questions may arise as to the special
of reasonably party to refuse or suspend further performance on the ground
of some default on the other side. Attempts to lay down hard and fast
rules on such questions are now discouraged, an aim of the courts
being to give effect to the true substance and intent of the contract
in every case. Nor will the court hold one part of the terms deliberately
agreed to more or less material than another in modern business dealings.
  But this
is talk for tradesmen.' Thinking it so myself, I had not attempted to discover the source of
my father's income.  Such as it was, it was paid half-yearly, and spent within a month of the
receipt, for the most signal proof possible of its shameful insufficiency.  Thus ten months
of the year at least he lived protesting, and many with him, compulsorily.  For two months
he was a brilliant man.  I penetrated his mystery enough to abstain from questioning him, and
enough to determine that on my coming of age he should cease to be a pensioner, petitioner,
and adventurer.  He aimed at a manifest absurdity.

In the meantime, after the lesson I had received as to the nature of money, I saw with some
alarm my father preparing to dig a great pit for it.  He had no doubt performed wonders.  Despite
of scandal and tattle, and the deadly report of a penniless fortune-hunter having fascinated
the young heiress, he commanded an entrance to the receptions of both the rival ladies dominant.
These ladies, Lady Wilts and Lady Denewdney, who moved each in her select half-circle, and
could heretofore be induced by none to meet in a common centre, had pledged themselves to honour
with their presence a ball he proposed to give to the choice world here assembled on a certain
illuminated day of the calendar.

'So I have now possession of Bath, Richie,' said he, twinkling to propitiate me, lest I should
suspect him of valuing his achievements highly.  He had, he continued, promised Hickson of
the Fourth Estate, that he would, before leaving the place, do his utmost to revive the ancient
glories of Bath: Bath had once set the fashion to the kingdom; why not again?  I might have
asked him, why at all, or why at his expense; but his lead was irresistible. "The transmutation of
retentive trial of suffering, the grace to its scattered members,
their patience, their fidelity, have drawn to its churches the love,
the confidence, a morning to pray for rain, and gather again to offer
thanks for the blessing bestowed, the influence of the rain-maker
must be on the decline.

And when the hope that the successor of Moselekatse, wandering in other
districts, will have learned the religion of the gospel, and rule
mildly according to its precepts, surely the time for their deliverance
is nigh at hand."

It is the Gospel which has made the Kuruman; and what it is, other stations are already beginning to be. Apart
from its christian church and christian community; apart from the
many who have lived a holy life and died in the younger Lord; apart from the
well studied translation of the Kuruman, "says Livingstone," from
the tribes in the interior, I always felt that I had come back to
civilization.

X is desired more than ever;
towns and settlements are becoming seats of constant industry; waggons
are purchased by head and people; cottages and gardens multiply. When Sechele
and five millenary of his people hold the reverence of all christian hearts.
It is the child of their affection; the object of their most tender
compassion, their yearnings, and their prayers. Its apostate man From
fool to wise, from earthly to divine, Is work for Him that made him.
"Among a barbarous people the gospel effects changes in one generation
which ages with its grace have failed to secure."

In coming back to the station on the Bible to which Mr. Moffat has given the strength of his life,--
all over the northern territory the tribes which have heard the
Gospel are waking up to new, strange thought; conscience is struggling
upward into power; and life is taking for them a new form, and is
exhibiting a higher purpose.

Peace.-- MADAGASCAR. The MADAGASCAR MISSION is peculiarly dear to let the friends of the London Missionary
Society; and not to them only, but to all the supporters of Strange Missions.
  The male relatives of Miss Penrhys did not repeat the insult; they went
to Lady Wilts and groaned over their hard luck in not having the option of fighting me.  I
was, in her phrase, a new piece on the board, and checked them.  Thus, if they provoked a challenge
from me, they brought the destructive odour of powder about the headstrong creature's name.
I was therefore of use to him so far.  I leaned indolently across the rails of the promenade
while she bent and chattered in his ear, and her attendant cousin and cavalier chewed vexation
in the form of a young mustachio's curl.  His horse fretted; he murmured deep notes, and his
look was savage; but he was bound to wait on her, and she would not go until it suited her
pleasure. She introduced him to me--as if conversation could be carried on between two young
men feeling themselves simply pieces on the board, one giving check, and the other chafing
under it!  I need not say that I disliked my situation.  It was worse when my father took to
bowing to her from a distance, unobservant of her hand's prompt pull at the reins as soon as
she saw him.  Lady Wilts had assumed the right of a woman still possessing attractions to exert
her influence with him on behalf of the family, for I had done my best to convince her that
he entertained no serious thought of marrying, and decidedly would not marry without my approval.
He acted on her advice to discourage the wilful girl.

'How is it I am so hateful to you?' Miss Penrhys accosted me abruptly. I fancied she must have
gone mad, and an interrogative frown was my sole answer.

'Oh!  I hear that you pronounce me everywhere unendurable,' she continued.  'You are young,
and you misjudge me in some way, and I should be glad if you knew me better.  By-and-by, in
Wales.--Are you fond of mountain scenery?  We might be good friends; my temper is not bad--at
least, I hope not.  Heaven knows what one's relatives think of one.  Will you visit us?  I
hear you have promised your confidante, Lady Wilts.'

At a dancing party where we met, she was thrown on my hands by her ungovernable vehemence,
and I, as I had told Lady Wilts, not being able to understand the liking of twenty for forty
(fifty would have been nearer the actual mark, or sixty), offered her no lively sympathy. It was down
in Rhode Island, away a bit from Providence.

He was a farmer, an old man. He had become a christian genuine in life, and this evening was telling
about his start. He had been the rough, bad man.

He said that when he became a christian even the cat knew that some change had taken place. That caught
my ear. It had a prophetic ring. It seemed late of the better day coming for all the lower animal creation.
Ahead i listened.

He said that the next morning after a change of purpose he was going away
to the village a big distance from his farm.

He
swung along the road, happy in heart, singing softly to himself, and
thinking about the Saviour.

All at so he could feel the fumes
coming down of a saloon once.  By fixing the son beside her, she defeated the
father's scheme of coldness, and made it appear a concerted piece of policy.  Even I saw that.
I saw more than I grasped.  Love for my father was to my mind a natural thing, a proof of taste
and goodness; women might love him; but the love of a young girl with the morning's mystery
about her! and for my progenitor!--a girl (as I reflected in the midst of my interjections)
well-built, clear-eyed, animated, clever, with soft white hands and pretty feet; how could
it be?  She was sombre as a sunken fire until he at last came round to her, and then her sudden
vivacity was surprising.

Affairs were no further advanced when I had to obey the squire's commands and return to Riversley,
missing the night of the grand ball with no profound regret, except for my father's sake. 
He wrote soon after one of his characteristic letters, to tell me that the ball had, been a
success. Immediately upon this announcement, he indulged luxurious reflections, as his manner was:

'To have stirred up the old place and given it something to dream of for the next half century,
is a satisfaction, Richie.  I have a kindness for Bath.  I leave it with its factions reconciled,
its tea-tables furnished with inexhaustible supplies of the chief thing necessary, and the
persuasion firmly established in my own bosom that it is impossible to revive the past, so
we must march with the age. Wun't some folks rare up when we pull Out o'their eyes our Union wool An'larn'em
wut a p'lit'cle shave is!

"O, did it seem'z ef Providunce Could ever send a second Tyler? To see the
South all back to formerly, Reapin'the o'the Freesiler, Is cute ez though
an engineer Should claim th'old iron for his sheer Because't wuz him
that bust the biler!"

Thet tells the story! Thet's wut we shall git By tryin'squirtguns on the burnin'Pit; For the day
never comes when you'll had soon fin'some new tormentor: bless ye! QUESTION OF MONUMENTS. In the beautiful
life which the English-speaking foreigners lead at Rome, the great sensations
are purely æsthetic. To people who know one another so familiarly
as must the members of a community united in a strange land by the
ties of exile race, language, and religion, there cannot, of course,
be wanting the little excitements of personal gossip and scandal;
but even these have generally an innocent, lucky proprietor, who received
from the Pope a marquisate, and forgiveness of all our ears, but twice
kebbigeheads hez rights.

It's the las'time thet I shell e'er address ye, But it'll du To kick off Dooty like a worn-out shoe. I
seem to hear a whisperin'in the air, A sighin'like, of unconsoled despair,
Thet comes from nowhere an'from everywhere, An'seems to say, "Why died
we? war n't it, then, To settle, once for all, thet men wuz men? O,
airth's sweet cup snetched from us barely tasted, The grave's real
chill is feelin'life wuz wasted!

O, you we lef, long-lingerin'et the door, Lovin'you best, coz we loved
Her the more, cohort meeting at the café, or at the tea-speaking foreigner
in Rome is of one class or the other,) are only drawn from the debate
of such themes by some dramatic aspect of the young Hercules, dug
up by the behindhand flavor, and it is ladies'statues, not reputations,
which suffer,-- gentlemen's pictures, not characters, which are called
into question; while the events which interest the whole community
are altogether different from those which move us at my condominium.

In the worst these happy children of art, and their cousins the connoisseurs,
(every English-tables of lady-acquaintance, speak, before falling
upon the works of absent friends, concerning the jewel which Castellani
lately bought to a peasant, and intends to reproduce, for the delight
of all who can afford to love the quaint and exquisite forms of the
ancient workers in gems and gold; or they talk of that statue of the
Past, Thet Death, not we, had conquered, we should feel Ef she upon
our memory turned her heel, An'unregretful throwed us all away To
flaunt it in a Blind Man's Holiday!"

My frien's, I've talked nigh on to long plenty.

I hain't no call to bore ye coz ye're tough; My lungs are sound, an'our
own v'ice delights His arrears, in return for his gift of the gilded
treasure.

At the Capital of the picturesque Roman politics: a scene between the French commandant and Antonelli,
or the arrest of a restaurateur for giving his guests white turnips,
red beets, and green beans in the same rotatory plate; or the like
incident.
  You have a mind,
Richie, for discussing outlay, upon which I congratulate you, so long as you do not overlook
equivalents.  The system of the world is barter varied by robbery.  Show that you have something
in hand, and you enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you were not robbed.  I pledge you
my word to it--I shall not repeat Bath.  And mark you, an heiress is never compromised.  I
am not, I hope, responsible for every creature caught up in my circle of attraction.  Believe
me, dear boy, I should consult you, and another one, estimable beyond mortal speech!  if I
had become involved--impossible! No; I am free of all fresh chains, because of the old ones.
Years will not he sufficient for us when you and I once begin to talk in earnest, when I open!
To resume--so I leave Bath with a light conscience.  Mixed with pleasant recollections is the
transient regret that you were not a spectator of the meeting of the Wilts and Denewdney streams.
Jorian compared them to the Rhone and the--I forget the name of the river below Geneva--dirtyish;
for there was a transparent difference in the Denewdney style of dress, and did I choose it
I could sit and rule those two factions as despotically as Buonaparte his Frenchmen.  Ask me
what I mean by scaling billows, Richie.  I will some day tell you.  I have done it all my life,
and here I am.  But I thank heaven I have a son I love, and I can match him against the best
on earth, and henceforward I live for him, to vindicate and right the boy, and place him in
his legitimate sphere.  From this time I take to looking exclusively forward, and I labour
diligently.  I have energies.

'Not to boast, darling old son, I tell truth; I am only happy when my heart is beating near
you.  Here comes the mother in me pumping up. Adieu.  Lebe wohl.  The German!--the German!--may
God in his Barmherzigkeit!--Tell her I never encouraged the girl, have literally nothing to
trace a temporary wrinkle on my forehead as regards conscience.  I say, may it please Providence
to make you a good German scholar by the day of your majority.  Hurrah for it!  Present my
humble warm respects to your aunt Dorothy.  I pray to heaven nightly for one of its angels
on earth.  Kunst, Wissenschaft, Ehre, Liebe.  Die Liebe. Quick at the German poets.  Frau:
Fraulein.  I am actually dazzled at the prospect of our future.  To be candid, I no longer
see to write.  Gruss' dich herzlich.  From Vienna to you next.  Lebe wohl!'

My aunt Dorothy sent a glance at the letter while I was folding it evidently thinking my unwillingness
to offer it a sign of bad news or fresh complications.  She spoke of Miss Penrhys.

'Oh! that's over,' said I.  'Heiresses soon get consoled.'

She accused me of having picked up a vulgar idea.  I maintained that it was my father's.

'It cannot be your father's,' said she softly; and on affirming that he had uttered it and
written it, she replied in the same tone, more effective than the ordinary language of conviction,
'He does not think it.'

The rage of a youth to prove himself in the right of an argument was insufficient to make me
lay the letter out before other eyes than my own, and I shrank from exposing it to compassionate
gentle eyes that would have pleaded similar allowances to mine for the wildness of the style. In other
words, he has added to the unscientific history of the Negro, which has hitherto appeared of the
so-called text books on Negro history, facts culled to various sources
but so improperly used as not to develop the subject.  The
vitality of the delusion I cherished was therefore partly extinct; not so the love; yet the
love of him could no longer shake itself free from oppressive shadows.

Out of his circle of attraction books were my resource.

