She has seen her brother pointed out unmistakeably as the tailor-fellow.  There is yet time
to cast him off or fly with him.  Is it her extraordinary heroism impelling her onward, or
infatuated rashness?  or is it her mere animal love of conflict?

The Countess de Saldar, like other adventurers, has her star.  They who possess nothing on
earth, have a right to claim a portion of the heavens. In resolute hands, much may be done
with a star.  As it has empires in its gift, so may it have heiresses.  The Countess's star
had not blinked balefully at her.  That was one reason why she went straight on to Beckley.

Again: the Countess was a born general.  With her star above, with certain advantages secured,
with battalions of lies disciplined and zealous, and with one clear prize in view, besides
other undeveloped benefits dimly shadowing forth, the Countess threw herself headlong into
the enemy's country.

But, that you may not think too highly of this lady, I must add that the trivial reason was
the exciting cause--as in many great enterprises. This was nothing more than the simple desire
to be located, if but for a day or two, on the footing of her present rank, in the English
country- house of an offshoot of our aristocracy.  She who had moved in the first society of
a foreign capital--who had married a Count, a minister of his sovereign, had enjoyed delicious
high-bred badinage with refulgent ambassadors, could boast the friendship of duchesses, and
had been the amiable receptacle of their pardonable follies; she who, moreover, heartily despised
things English:--this lady experienced thrills of proud pleasure at the prospect of being welcomed
at a third-rate English mansion.  But then, that mansion was Beckley Court.  We return to our
first ambitions, as to our first loves not that they are dearer to us, --quit that delusion:
our ripened loves and mature ambitions are probably closest to our hearts, as they deserve
to be--but we return to them because our youth has a hold on us which it asserts whenever a
disappointment knocks us down.  Our old loves (with the bad natures I know in them) are always
lurking to avenge themselves on the new by tempting us to a little retrograde infidelity. 
A schoolgirl in Fallow field, the tailor's daughter, had sighed for the bliss of Beckley Court.
Beckley Court was her Elysium ere the ardent feminine brain conceived a loftier summit.  Fallen
from that attained eminence, she sighed anew for Beckley Court.  Nor was this mere spiritual
longing; it had its material side.  At Beckley Court she could feel her foreign rank.  Moving
with our nobility as an equal, she could feel that the short dazzling glitter of her career
was not illusory, and had left her something solid; not coin of the realm exactly, but yet
gold.  She could not feel this in the Cogglesby saloons, among pitiable bourgeoises--middle-class
people daily soiled by the touch of tradesmen.  They dragged her down.  Their very homage was
a mockery.

Let the Countess have due credit for still allowing Evan to visit Beckley Court to follow up
his chance.  If Demogorgon betrayed her there, the Count was her protector: a woman rises to
her husband.  But a man is what he is, and must stand upon that.  She was positive Evan had
committed himself in some manner.  As it did not suit her to think so, she at once encouraged
an imaginary conversation, in which she took the argument that it was quite impossible Evan
could have been so mad, and others instanced his youth, his wrongheaded perversity, his ungenerous
disregard for his devoted sister, and his known weakness: she replying, that undoubtedly they
were right so far: but that he could not have said he himself was that horrible thing, because
he was nothing of the sort: which faith in Evan's stedfast adherence to facts, ultimately silenced
the phantom opposition, and gained the day.

With admiration let us behold the Countess de Saldar alighting on the gravel sweep of Beckley
Court, the footman and butler of the enemy bowing obsequious welcome to the most potent visitor
Beckley Court has ever yet embraced.

The despatches of a general being usually acknowledged to be the safest sources from which
the historian of a campaign can draw, I proceed to set forth a letter of the Countess de Saldar,
forwarded to her sister, Harriet Cogglesby, three mornings after her arrival at Beckley Court;
and which, if it should prove false in a few particulars, does nevertheless let us into the
state of the Countess's mind, and gives the result of that general's first inspection of the
field of action.  The Countess's epistolary English does small credit to her Fallow field education;
but it is feminine, and flows more than her ordinary speech.  Besides, leaders of men have
always notoriously been above the honours of grammar.

'MY DEAREST HARRIET,

'Your note awaited me.  No sooner my name announced, than servitors in yellow livery, with
powder and buckles started before me, and bowing one presented it on a salver.  A venerable
butler--most impressive! led the way.  In future, my dear, let it be de Saldar de Sancorvo.
That is our title by rights, and it may as well be so in England.  English Countess is certainly
best.  Always put the de.  But let us be systematic, as my poor Silva says.  He would be in
the way here, and had better not come till I see something he can do.  Silva has great reliance
upon me.  The farther he is from Lymport, my dear!--and imagine me, Harriet, driving through
Fallow field to Beckley Court!  I gave one peep at Dubbins's, as I passed.  The school still
goes on.  I saw three little girls skipping, and the old swing-pole.  SEMINARY FOR YOUNG LADIES
as bright as ever!  I should have liked to have kissed the children and given them bonbons
and a holiday.

'How sparing you English are of your crests and arms!  I fully expected to see the Jocelyns'
over my bed; but no--four posts totally without ornament!  Sleep, indeed, must be the result
of dire fatigue in such a bed.  The Jocelyn crest is a hawk in jesses.  The Elburne arms are,
Or, three falcons on a field, vert.  How heraldry reminds me of poor Papa! the evenings we
used to spend with him, when he stayed at home, studying it so diligently under his directions!
We never shall again!  Sir Franks Jocelyn is the third son of Lord Elburne, made a Baronet
for his patriotic support of the Ministry in a time of great trouble.  The people are sometimes
grateful, my dear.  Lord Elburne is the fourteenth of his line--originally simple country squires.
They talk of the Roses, but we need not go so very far back as that.  I do not quite understand
why a Lord's son should condescend to a Baronetcy.  Precedence of some sort for his lady, I
suppose.  I have yet to learn whether she ranks by his birth, or his present title.  If so,
a young Baronetcy cannot possibly be a gain.  One thing is certain.  She cares very little
about it.  She is most eccentric.  But remember what I have told you.  It will be serviceable
when you are speaking of the family.

'The dinner-hour, six.  It would no doubt be full seven in Town.  I am convinced you are half-an-hour
too early.  I had the post of honour to the right of Sir Franks.  Evan to the right of Lady
Jocelyn.  Most fortunately he was in the best of spirits--quite brilliant.  I saw the eyes
of that sweet Rose glisten.  On the other side of me sat my pet diplomatist, and I gave him
one or two political secrets which astonished him.  Of course, my dear, I was wheedled out
of them.  His contempt for our weak intellects is ineffable.  But a woman must now and then
ingratiate herself at the expense of her sex.  This is perfectly legitimate.  Tory policy at
the table.  The Opposition, as Andrew says, not represented.  So to show that we were human
beings, we differed among ourselves, and it soon became clear to me that Lady Jocelyn is the
rankest of Radicals.  My secret suspicion is, that she is a person of no birth whatever, wherever
her money came from.  A fine woman--yes; still to be admired, I suppose, by some kind of men;
but totally wanting in the essentially feminine attractions.

'There was no party, so to say.  I will describe the people present, beginning with the insignifacants.

'First, Mr. Parsley, the curate of Beckley.  He eats everything at table, and agrees with everything.
A most excellent orthodox young clergyman. Except that he was nearly choked by a fish-bone,
and could not quite conceal his distress--and really Rose should have repressed her desire
to laugh till the time for our retirement--he made no sensation.  I saw her eyes watering,
and she is not clever in turning it off.  In that nobody ever equalled dear Papa.  I attribute
the attack almost entirely to the tightness of the white neck-cloths the young clergymen of
the Established Church wear.  But, my dear, I have lived too long away from them to wish for
an instant the slightest change in anything they think, say, or do. The mere sight of this
young man was most refreshing to my spirit.  He may be the shepherd of a flock, this poor Mr.
Parsley, but he is a sheep to one young person.

'Mr. Drummond Forth. Mr. Leavell directed his attention to the migration from Mississippi,
Mr. Snavely to that from Alabama and North Carolina, and Mr. Woofter
to that from Georgia.

Mr. Williams sketches in general the Exodus from the South and Mr.
Tyson gives a survey of the Negro Migrant in the North.

Submitted in this condition the report is much less valuable than it would have been, had the investigation
been directed by a single man to work out of these individual reports a scientific presentation of
the whole movement.

As this was not the case, there is found throughout the report numerous duplications of discussions
of causes and effects which might have given place to more valuable
information.

The conclusion of Mr. Leavell, himself a Mississippian, as to measures
for the rehabilitation of Mississippi labor conditions, are very interesting.

He believes that a permanent surplus of Negro laborers outside of
the upper delta can be created by reorganizing agriculture with emphasis
on live stock and forage, that this surplus could then be directed
to the delta and to Arkansas so far as needed for producing cotton
and food stuffs, that the balance of this surplus labor should be
drawn permanently to northern industries, and that the older communities
along the Mississippi could attract the necessary additional labor
from the surplus created in the hills.

He believes also that there should be schools emphasizing education
toward the farm, fair dealing in all business transactions, equal
treatment in the distribution of public utilities, equal treatment
in the courts and the encouragement of Negro farm ownership, the abolition
of the fee system in courts of justice, the insistence of white public
opinion on full settlement with Negroes on plantations, and, above
all else, that the fundamental need is for frequent and confidential
conferences upon community problems and for active cooperation between
the local leaders of the two races.  He has just as much and no more of the English polish
one ordinarily meets.  When he has given me soup or fish, bowed to me over wine, and asked
a conventional question, he has done with me.  I should imagine his opinions to be extremely
good, for they are not a multitude.

'Then his lady-but I have not grappled with her yet.  Now for the women, for I quite class
her with the opposite sex.

'You must know that before I retired for the night, I induced Conning to think she had a bad
head-ache, and Rose lent me her lady's-maid--they call the creature Polly.  A terrible talker.
She would tell all about the family.  Rose has been speaking of Evan.  It would have looked
better had she been quiet--but then she is so English!'

Here the Countess breaks off to say, that from where she is writing, she can see Rose and Evan
walking out to the cypress avenue, and that no eyes are on them; great praise being given to
the absence of suspicion in the Jocelyn nature.

The communication is resumed the night of the same day.

'Two days at Beckley Court are over, and that strange sensation I had of being an intruder
escaped from Dubbins's, and expecting every instant the old schoolmistress to call for me,
and expose me, and take me to the dark room, is quite vanished, and I feel quite at home, quite
happy.  Evan is behaving well.  Quite the young nobleman.  With the women I had no fear of
him; he is really admirable with the men--easy, and talks of sport and politics, and makes
the proper use of Portugal.  He has quite won the heart of his sister.  Heaven smiles on us,
dearest Harriet!

'We must be favoured, my dear, for Evan is very troublesome-- distressingly inconsiderate!
I left him for a day-remaining to comfort poor Mama--and on the road he picked up an object
he had known at school, and this creature, in shameful garments, is seen in the field where
Rose and Evan are riding--in a dreadful hat--Rose might well laugh at it!--he is seen running
away from an old apple woman, whose fruit he had consumed without means to liquidate; but,
of course, he rushes bolt up to Evan before all his grand company, and claims acquaintance,
and Evan was base enough to acknowledge him!  He disengaged himself so far well by tossing
his purse to the wretch, but if he knows not how to--cut, I assure him it will be his ruin.
Resolutely he must cast the dust off his shoes, or he will be dragged down to their level.
By the way, as to hands and feet, comparing him with the Jocelyn men, he has every mark of
better blood. Not a question about it.  As Papa would say--We have Nature's proof.

'Looking out on a beautiful lawn, and the moon, and all sorts of trees, I must now tell you
about the ladies here.

'Conning undid me to-night.  While Conning remains unattached, Conning is likely to be serviceable.
If Evan, would only give her a crumb, she would be his most faithful dog.  I fear he cannot
be induced, and Conning will be snapped up by somebody else.  You know how susceptible she
is behind her primness--she will be of no use on earth, and I shall find excuse to send her
back immediately.  After all, her appearance here was all that was wanted.

'Mrs. Melville and her dreadful juvenile are here, as you may imagine-- the complete Englishwoman.
I smile on her, but I could laugh.  To see the crow's-feet under her eyes on her white skin,
and those ringlets, is really too ridiculous.  Then there is a Miss Carrington, Lady Jocelyn's
cousin, aged thirty-two--if she has not tampered with the register of her birth.  I should
think her equal to it.  Between dark and fair.  Always in love with some man, Conning tells
me she hears.  Rose's maid, Polly, hinted the same.  She has a little money.

'But my sympathies have been excited by a little cripple--a niece of Lady Jocelyn's and the
favourite grand-daughter of the rich old Mrs. Bonner-- also here--Juliana Bonner.  Her age
must be twenty.  You would take her for ten.  In spite of her immense expectations, the Jocelyns
hate her. They can hardly be civil to her.  It is the poor child's temper.  She has already
begun to watch dear Evan--certainly the handsomest of the men here as yet, though I grant you,
they are well-grown men, these Jocelyns, for an untravelled Englishwoman.  I fear, dear Harriet,
we have been dreadfully deceived about Rose.  The poor child has not, in her own right, much
more than a tenth part of what we supposed, I fear.  It was that Mrs. Melville.  I have had
occasion to notice her quiet boasts here. She said this morning, "when Mel is in the Ministry"--he
is not yet in Parliament!  I feel quite angry with the woman, and she is not so cordial as
she might be.  I have her profile very frequently while I am conversing with her.

'With Grandmama Bonner I am excellent good friends,--venerable silver hair, high caps, etc.
More of this most interesting Juliana Bonner by- and-by.  It is clear to me that Rose's fortune
is calculated upon the dear invalid's death!  Is not that harrowing?  It shocks me to think of it. 

"Very intelligent, but a man whose spirit it was impossible to subdue;
and possessing an ambition which stopped at nothing, he became involved
in secret intrigues, and was degraded from his rank by his Highness
the Grand Duke, and exiled to Siberia."  AND--I say in charity.

'Mrs. Shorne comes here to-morrow.  She is at present with--guess, my dear!--with Lady Racial.
Do not be alarmed.  I have met Lady Racial. She heard Evan's name, and by that and the likeness
I saw she knew at once, and I saw a truce in her eyes.  She gave me a tacit assurance of it--she
was engaged to dine here yesterday, and put it off--probably to grant us time for composure.
If she comes I do not fear her.  Besides, has she not reasons?  Providence may have designed
her for a staunch ally--I will not say, confederate.

'Would that Providence had fixed this beautiful mansion five hundred miles from L-----, though
it were in a desolate region!  And that reminds me of the Madre.  She is in health.  She always
will be overbearingly robust till the day we are bereft of her.  There was some secret in the
house when I was there, which I did not trouble to penetrate.  That little Jane F---- was there--not
improved.

'Pray, be firm about Torquay.  Estates mortgaged, but hopes of saving a remnant of the property.
Third son!  Don't commit yourself there.  We dare not baronetize him.  You need not speak it--imply.
More can be done that way.

'And remember, dear Harriet, that you must manage Andrew so that we may positively promise
his vote to the Ministry on all questions when Parliament next assembles.  I understood from
Lord Livelyston, that Andrew's vote would be thought much of.  A most amusing nobleman!  He
pledged himself to nothing!  But we are above such a thing as a commercial transaction.  He
must countenance Silva.  Women, my dear, have sent out armies--why not fleets?  Do not spare
me your utmost aid in my extremity, my dearest sister.

'As for Strike, I refuse to speak of him.  He is insufferable and next to useless.  How can
one talk with any confidence of relationship with a Major of Marines?  When I reflect on what
he is, and his conduct to Caroline, I have inscrutable longings to slap his face.  Tell dear
Carry her husband's friend--the chairman or something of that wonderful company of Strike's--you
know--the Duke of Belfield is coming here.  He is a blood-relation of the Elburnes, therefore
of the Jocelyns.  It will not matter at all.  Breweries, I find, are quite in esteem in your
England. It was highly commendable in his Grace to visit you.  Did he come to see the Major
of Marines?  Caroline is certainly the loveliest woman I ever beheld, and I forgive her now
the pangs of jealousy she used to make me feel.

'Andrew, I hope, has received the most kind invitations of the Jocelyns. He must come.  Melville
must talk with him about the votes of his abominable brother in Fallow field.  We must elect
Melville and have the family indebted to us.  But pray be careful that Andrew speaks not a
word to his odious brother about our location here.  It would set him dead against these hospitable
Jocelyns.  It will perhaps be as well, dear Harriet, if you do not accompany Andrew.  You would
not be able to account for him quite thoroughly.  Do as you like--I do but advise, and you
know I may be trusted--for our sakes, dear one!  I am working for Carry to come with Andrew.
Beautiful women always welcome.  A prodigy! --if they wish to astonish the Duke.  Adieu!  Heaven
bless your babes!'

The night passes, and the Countess pursues:

'Awakened by your fresh note from a dream of Evan on horseback, and a multitude hailing him
Count Jocelyn for Fallow field!  A morning dream. They might desire that he should change his
name; but "Count" is preposterous, though it may conceal something.

'You say Andrew will come, and talk of his bringing Caroline.  Anything to give our poor darling
a respite from her brute.  You deserve great credit for your managing of that dear little good-natured
piece of obstinate man.  I will at once see to prepare dear Caroline's welcome, and trust her
stay may be prolonged in the interest of common humanity. They have her story here already.

'Conning has come in, and says that young Mr. Harry Jocelyn will be here this morning from
Fallow field, where he has been cricketing.  The family have not spoken of him in my hearing.
He is not, I think, in good odour at home--a scapegrace.  Rose's maid, Polly, quite flew out
when I happened to mention him, and broke one of my laces.  These English maids are domesticated
savage animals.

'My chocolate is sent up, exquisitely concocted, in plate of the purest quality--lovely little
silver cups!  I have already quite set the fashion for the ladies to have chocolate in bed.
The men, I hear, complain that there is no lady at the breakfast-table.  They have Miss Carrington
to superintend.  I read, in the subdued satisfaction of her eyes (completely without colour),
how much she thanks me and the institution of chocolate in bed.  Poor Miss Carrington is no
match for her opportunities.  One may give them to her without dread.

'It is ten on the Sabbath morn.  The sweet churchbells are ringing.  It seems like a dream.
There is nothing but the religion attaches me to England; but that--is not that everything?
How I used to sigh on Sundays to hear them in Portugal!

'I have an idea of instituting toilette-receptions.  They will not please Miss Carrington so well.

'Now to the peaceful village church, and divine worship.  Adieu, my dear. I kiss my fingers
to Silva.  Make no effort to amuse him.  He is always occupied.  Bread!--he asks no more. 
Adieu!  Carry will be invited with your little man ....  You unhappily unable ....  She, the
sister I pine to see, to show her worthy of my praises.  Expectation and excitement! Adieu!'

Filled with pleasing emotions at the thought of the service in the quiet village church, and
worshipping in the principal pew, under the blazonry of the Jocelyn arms, the Countess sealed
her letter and addressed it, and then examined the name of Cogglesby; which plebeian name,
it struck her, would not sound well to the menials of Beckley Court.  While she was deliberating
what to do to conceal it, she heard, through her open window, the voices of some young men
laughing.  She beheld her brother pass these young men, and bow to them.  She beheld them stare
at him without at all returning his salute, and then one of them--the same who had filled her
ears with venom at Fallow field--turned to the others and laughed outrageously, crying

'By Jove! this comes it strong.  Fancy the snipocracy here--eh?'

What the others said the Countess did not wait to hear.  She put on her bonnet hastily, tried
the effect of a peculiar smile in the mirror, and lightly ran down-stairs.

CHAPTER XV

A CAPTURE

The three youths were standing in the portico when the Countess appeared among them.  She singled
out him who was specially obnoxious to her, and sweetly inquired the direction to the village
post.  With the renowned gallantry of his nation, he offered to accompany her, but presently,
with a different exhibition of the same, proposed that they should spare themselves the trouble
by dropping the letter she held prominently, in the bag.

'Thanks,' murmured the Countess, 'I will go.'  Upon which his eager air subsided, and he fell
into an awkward silent march at her side, looking so like the victim he was to be, that the
Countess could have emulated his power of laughter.

'And you are Mr. Harry Jocelyn, the very famous cricketer?'

He answered, glancing back at his friends, that he was, but did not know about the 'famous.'

'Oh!  but I saw you--I saw you hit the ball most beautifully, and dearly wished my brother
had an equal ability.  Brought up in the Court of Portugal, he is barely English.  There they
have no manly sports.  You saw him pass you?'

'Him!  Who?' asked Harry.

'My brother, on the lawn, this moment.  Your sweet sister's friend.  Your uncle Melville's
secretary.'

'What's his name?' said Harry, in blunt perplexity.

The Countess repeated his name, which in her pronunciation was 'Hawington,' adding, 'That was
my brother.  I am his sister.  Have you heard of the Countess de Saldar?'

'Countess!' muttered Harry.  'Dash it!  here's a mistake.'

She continued, with elegant fan-like motion of her gloved fingers: 'They say there is a likeness
between us.  The dear Queen of Portugal often remarked it, and in her it was a compliment to
me, for she thought my brother a model!  You I should have known from your extreme resemblance
to your lovely young sister.'

Coarse food, but then Harry was a youthful Englishman; and the Countess dieted the vanity according
to the nationality.  With good wine to wash it down, one can swallow anything.  The Countess
lent him her eyes for that purpose; eyes that had a liquid glow under the dove--like drooping
lids.  It was a principle of hers, pampering our poor sex with swinish solids or the lightest
ambrosia, never to let the accompanying cordial be other than of the finest quality.  She knew
that clowns, even more than aristocrats, are flattered by the inebriation of delicate celestial
liquors.

'Now,' she said, after Harry had gulped as much of the dose as she chose to administer direct
from the founts, 'you must accord me the favour to tell me all about yourself, for I have heard
much of you, Mr. Harry Jocelyn, and you have excited my woman's interest.  Of me you know nothing.'

'Haven't I?' cried Harry, speaking to the pitch of his new warmth. 'My uncle Melville goes
on about you tremendously--makes his wife as jealous as fire.  How could I tell that was your
brother?'

'Your uncle has deigned to allude to me?' said the Countess, meditatively.  'But not of him--of
you, Mr. Harry!  What does he say?'

'Says you're so clever you ought to be a man.'

'Ah!  generous!' exclaimed the Countess.  'The idea, I think, is novel to him.  Is it not?'

'Well, I believe, from what I hear, he didn't back you for much over in Lisbon,' said veracious
Harry.

'I fear he is deceived in me now.  I fear I am but a woman--I am not to be "backed."  But you
are not talking of yourself.'

'Oh! never mind me,' was Harry's modest answer.

'But I do.  Try to imagine me as clever as a man, and talk to me of your doings.  Indeed I
will endeavour to comprehend you.'

Thus humble, the Countess bade him give her his arm.  He stuck it out with abrupt eagerness.

'Not against my cheek.' She laughed forgivingly.  'And you need not start back half-a-mile,'
she pursued with plain humour: 'and please do not look irresolute and awkward--It is not necessary,'
she added.  'There!'; and she settled her fingers on him, 'I am glad I can find one or two
things to instruct you in.  Begin.  You are a great cricketer.  What else?'

Ay! what else?  Harry might well say he had no wish to talk of himself. He did not know even
how to give his arm to a lady!  The first flattery and the subsequent chiding clashed in his
elated soul, and caused him to deem himself one of the blest suddenly overhauled by an inspecting
angel and found wanting: or, in his own more accurate style of reflection, 'What a rattling
fine woman this is, and what a deuce of a fool she must think me!'

The Countess leaned on his arm with dainty languor.

'You walk well,' she said.

Harry's backbone straightened immediately.

'No, no; I do not want you to be a drill-sergeant.  Can you not be told you are perfect without
seeking to improve, vain boy?  You can cricket, and you can walk, and will very soon learn
how to give your arm to a lady.  I have hopes of you.  Of your friends, from whom I have ruthlessly
dragged you, I have not much.  Am I personally offensive to them, Mr. Harry?  I saw them let
my brother pass without returning his bow, and they in no way acknowledged my presence as I
passed.  Are they gentlemen?'

'Yes,' said Harry, stupefied by the question.  'One 's Ferdinand Laxley, Lord Laxley's son,
heir to the title; the other's William Harvey, son of the Chief Justice--both friends of mine.'

'But not of your manners,' interposed the Countess. 'I have not so much compunction as I ought
to have in divorcing you from your associates for a few minutes.  I think I shall make a scholar
of you in one or two essentials.  You do want polish.  Have I not a right to take you in hand?
I have defended you already.'

'Me?' cried Harry.

'None other than Mr. Harry Jocelyn.  Will he vouchsafe to me his pardon? It has been whispered
in my ears that his ambition is to be the Don Juan of a country district, and I have said for
him, that however grovelling his undirected tastes, he is too truly noble to plume himself
upon the reputation they have procured him.  Why did I defend you?  Women, you know, do not
shrink from Don Juans--even provincial Don Juans--as they should, perhaps, for their own sakes!
You are all of you dangerous, if a woman is not strictly on her guard.  But you will respect
your champion, will you not?'

Harry was about to reply with wonderful briskness.  He stopped, and murmured boorishly that
he was sure he was very much obliged.

Command of countenance the Countess possessed in common with her sex. Those faces on which
we make them depend entirely, women can entirely control.  Keenly sensible to humour as the
Countess was, her face sidled up to his immovably sweet.  Harry looked, and looked away, and
looked again.  The poor fellow was so profoundly aware of his foolishness that he even doubted
whether he was admired.

The Countess trifled with his English nature; quietly watched him bob between tugging humility
and airy conceit, and went on:

'Yes!  I will trust you, and that is saying very much, for what protection is a brother?  I
am alone here--defenceless!'

Men, of course, grow virtuously zealous in an instant on behalf of the lovely dame who tells
them bewitchingly, she is alone and defenceless, with pitiful dimples round the dewy mouth
that entreats their guardianship and mercy!

The provincial Don Juan found words--a sign of clearer sensations within. I should think he would like to make his flock respected and respectable
in his speech, which he well knew they never could be under the then
existing laws.

Is it more than a fair inference that it was self-interest that made
him do otherwise, that he might be able to continue in possession
of his strong hold? If he had said to the Indians, like an honest man,
"I know I have no right to what is yours, and will willingly relinquish
what I hold of it," I do not doubt that the Indians would have given
him a house, and a life estate in a farm; and perhaps have conveyed
it to him in fee simple, if he had behaved well.

Such a course would have won him the love and esteem of the Indians, and
his blind obstinacy was certainly the surest means he could have taken to
gain their ill will.

He may think slightly of their good opinion, and I think, from his
whole course of conduct, that we are as dogs in his sight.

I presume
he could not die in peace if he thought he was to be buried beside
our graves.

It is the general fault of those who go on missions, that they cannot
sacrifice the pride of their hearts, in order to do good. It seems to
have been usually the object to seat the Indians between two stools,
in order that they might fall to the ground, by breaking up their
government and forms of society, without giving them any others in
their place.

It does not appear to be the aim of the missionaries to improve the
Indians by making citizens of them.

Hence, in most cases, anarchy and confusion are the results. Nothing
has more effectually contributed to the decay of several tribes than
the course pursued by their missionaries.

Let us look back to the first of them for proofs.

From the days of Elliott, to the year 1834, have they made one citizen? The latter date marks the
first instance of such an experiment. Is it not strange that free men
should thus have been held in bondage more than two hundred years, and
that setting them at liberty at this late day, should be called an experiment
now?

I would not be understood to say, however, that the Rev. Mr. Fish's mission
is any criterion to judge others by. No doubt, many of them have done
much good; but I greatly doubt that any missionary has ever thought
of making the Indian or African his equal.

As soon as we begin to talk about equal rights, the cry of amalgamation
is set up, as if men of color could not enjoy their natural rights
without any necessity for intermarriage between the sons and daughters
of the two races.

Strange, strange indeed! Does
it follow that the Indian or the African must go to the judge on
his bench, or to the Governor, Senator, or indeed any other man,
to ask for a help-meet, because his name may be found on the voter's
list, or in the jury boxes?

I promise all concerned, that we Marshpees have less inclination
to seek their daughters than they have to seek ours.

Should
the worst come to the worst, does the proud white think that a dark
skin is less honorable in the sight of God than his own beautiful
hide?  When
I beheld my brother bow to you, and that your only return was to stare at him in that singular
way, I was not aware of this, and could not account for it.'

I declare I'm very sorry,' said Harry, with a nettled air.  'Do just let me tell you how it
happened.  We were at an inn, where there was an odd old fellow gave a supper; and there was
your brother, and another fellow --as thorough an upstart as I ever met, and infernally impudent.
He got drinking, and wanted to fight us.  Now I see it!  Your brother, to save his friend's
bones, said he was a tailor!  Of course no gentleman could fight a tailor; and it blew over
with my saying we'd order our clothes of him.'

'Said he was a--!' exclaimed the Countess, gazing blankly.

'I don't wonder at your feeling annoyed,' returned Harry.  'I saw him with Rosey next day,
and began to smell a rat then, but Laxley won't give up the tailor.  He's as proud as Lucifer.
He wanted to order a suit of your brother to-day; but I said--not while he's in the house,
however he came here.'

The Countess had partially recovered.  They were now in the village street, and Harry pointed
out the post-office.

'Your divination with regard to my brother's most eccentric behaviour was doubtless correct,'
she said.  'He wished to succour his wretched companion.  Anywhere--it matters not to him what!--he
allies himself with miserable mortals.  He is the modern Samaritan.  You should thank him for
saving you an encounter with some low creature.'

Swaying the letter to and fro, she pursued archly: 'I can read your thoughts.  You are dying
to know to whom this dear letter is addressed!'

Instantly Harry, whose eyes had previously been quite empty of expression, glanced at the letter
wistfully.

Shall I tell you?'

'Yes, do.'

'It's to somebody I love.'

'Are you in love then?' was his disconcerted rejoinder.

'Am I not married?'

'Yes; but every woman that's married isn't in love with her husband, you know.'

'Oh!  Don Juan of the provinces!' she cried, holding the seal of the letter before him in playful
reproof.  'Fie!'

'Come!  who is it?' Harry burst out.

'I am not, surely, obliged to confess my correspondence to you? Remember!' she laughed lightly.
'He already assumes the airs of a lord and master!  You are rapid, Mr. Harry.'

'Won't you really tell me?' he pleaded.

She put a corner of the letter in the box.  'Must I?'

All was done with the archest elegance: the bewildering condescension of a Goddess to a boor.

'I don't say you must, you know: but I should like to see it,' returned Harry.

'There!'  She showed him a glimpse of 'Mrs.,' cleverly concealing plebeian 'Cogglesby,' and
the letter slid into darkness.  'Are you satisfied?'

'Yes,' said Harry, wondering why he felt a relief at the sight of 'Mrs.' written on a letter
by a lady he had only known half an hour.

'And now,' said she, 'I shall demand a boon of you, Mr. Harry.  Will it be accorded?'

She was hurriedly told that she might count upon him for whatever she chose to ask; and after
much trifling and many exaggerations of the boon in question, he heard that she had selected
him as her cavalier for the day, and that he was to consent to accompany her to the village church.

'Is it so great a request, the desire that you should sit beside a solitary lady for so short
a space?' she asked, noting his rueful visage.

Harry assured her he would be very happy, but hinted at the bother of having to sit and listen
to that fool of a Parsley: again assuring her, and with real earnestness, which the lady now
affected to doubt, that he would be extremely happy.

'You know, I haven't been there for ages,' he explained.

'I hear it!' she sighed, aware of the credit his escort would bring her in Beckley, and especially
with Harry's grandmama Bonner.

They went together to the village church.  The Countess took care to be late, so that all eyes
beheld her stately march up the aisle, with her captive beside her.

Nor was her captive less happy than he professed he would be.  Charming comic side-play, at
the expense of Mr. Parsley, she mingled with exceeding devoutness, and a serious attention
to Mr. Parsley's discourse. In her heart this lady really thought her confessed daily sins
forgiven her by the recovery of the lost sheep to Mr. Parsley's fold.  The results of this
small passage of arms were, that Evan's disclosure at Fallow field was annulled in the mind
of Harry Jocelyn, and the latter gentleman became the happy slave of the Countess de Saldar.

CHAPTER XVI

LEADS TO A SMALL SKIRMISH BETWEEN ROSE AND EVAN

Lady Jocelyn belonged properly to that order which the Sultans and the Roxalanas of earth combine
to exclude from their little games, under the designation of blues, or strong-minded women:
a kind, if genuine, the least dangerous and staunchest of the sex, as poor fellows learn when
the flippant and the frail fair have made mummies of them.  She had the frankness of her daughter,
the same direct eyes and firm step: a face without shadows, though no longer bright with youth.
It may be charged to her as one of the errors of her strong mind, that she believed friendship
practicable between men and women, young or old.  She knew the world pretty well, and was not
amazed by extraordinary accidents; but as she herself continued to be an example of her faith:
we must presume it natural that her delusion should cling to her.  She welcomed Evan as her
daughter's friend, walked half-way across the room to meet him on his introduction to her,
and with the simple words, 'I have heard of you,' let him see that he stood upon his merits
in her house.  The young man's spirit caught something of hers even in their first interview,
and at once mounted to that level.  Unconsciously he felt that she took, and would take him,
for what he was, and he rose to his worth in the society she presided over.  A youth like Evan
could not perceive, that in loving this lady's daughter, and accepting the place she offered
him, he was guilty of a breach of confidence; or reflect, that her entire absence of suspicion
imposed upon him a corresponding honesty toward her.  He fell into a blindness.  Without dreaming
for a moment that she designed to encourage his passion for Rose, he yet beheld himself in
the light she had cast on him; and, received as her daughter's friend, it seemed to him not
so utterly monstrous that he might be her daughter's lover. A haughty, a grand, or a too familiar
manner, would have kept his eyes clearer on his true condition.  Lady Jocelyn spoke to his
secret nature, and eclipsed in his mind the outward aspects with which it was warring. To her
he was a gallant young man, a fit companion for Rose, and when she and Sir Franks said, and
showed him, that they were glad to know him, his heart swam in a flood of happiness they little
suspected.

This was another of the many forms of intoxication to which circumstances subjected the poor
lover.  In Fallow field, among impertinent young men, Evan's pride proclaimed him a tailor.
At Beckley Court, acted on by one genuine soul, he forgot it, and felt elate in his manhood.
The shades of Tailordom dispersed like fog before the full South-west breeze.  When I say he
forgot it, the fact was present enough to him, but it became an outward fact: he had ceased
to feel it within him.  It was not a portion of his being, hard as Mrs. Mel had struck to fix
it.  Consequently, though he was in a far worse plight than when he parted with Rose on board
the Jocasta, he felt much less of an impostor now.  This may have been partly because he had
endured his struggle with the Demogorgon the Countess painted to him in such frightful colours,
and found him human after all; but it was mainly owing to the hearty welcome Lady Jocelyn had
extended to him as the friend of Rose.

Loving Rose, he nevertheless allowed his love no tender liberties.  The eyes of a lover are
not his own; but his hands and lips are, till such time as they are claimed.  The sun must
smile on us with peculiar warmth to woo us forth utterly-pluck our hearts out.  Rose smiled
on many.  She smiled on Drummond Forth, Ferdinand Laxley, William Harvey, and her brother Harry;
and she had the same eyes for all ages.  Once, previous to the arrival of the latter three,
there was a change in her look, or Evan fancied it.  They were going to ride out together,
and Evan, coming to his horse on the gravel walk, saw her talking with Drummond Forth.  He
mounted, awaiting her, and either from a slight twinge of jealousy, or to mark her dainty tread
with her riding-habit drawn above her heels, he could not help turning his head occasionally.
She listened to Drummond with attention, but presently broke from him, crying: 'It's an absurdity.
Speak to them yourself--I shall not.'

On the ride that day, she began prattling of this and that with the careless glee that became
her well, and then sank into a reverie. Between-whiles her eyes had raised tumults in Evan's
breast by dropping on him in a sort of questioning way, as if she wished him to speak, or wished
to fathom something she would rather have unspoken.  Ere they had finished their ride, she
tossed off what burden may have been on her mind as lightly as a stray lock from her shoulders.
He thought that the singular look recurred.  It charmed him too much for him to speculate on it.

The Countess's opportune ally, the gout, which had reduced the Hon. Melville Jocelyn's right
hand to a state of uselessness, served her with her brother equally: for, having volunteered
his services to the invalided diplomatist, it excused his stay at Beckley Court to himself,
and was a mask to his intimacy with Rose, besides earning him the thanks of the family.  Harry
Jocelyn, released from the wing of the Countess, came straight to him, and in a rough kind
of way begged Evan to overlook his rudeness.

'You took us all in at Fallow field, except Drummond,' he said. 'Drummond would have it you
were joking.  I see it now.  And you're a confoundedly clever fellow into the bargain, or you
wouldn't be quill- driving for Uncle Mel.  Don't be uppish about it--will you?'

'You have nothing to fear on that point,' said Evan.  With which promise the peace was signed
between them.  Drummond and William Harvey were cordial, and just laughed over the incident.
Laxley, however, held aloof.  His retention of ideas once formed befitted his rank and station.
Some trifling qualms attended Evan's labours with the diplomatist; but these were merely occasioned
by the iteration of a particular phrase. Mr. Goren, an enthusiastic tailor, had now and then
thrown out to Evan stirring hints of an invention he claimed: the discovery of a Balance in
Breeches: apparently the philosopher's stone of the tailor craft, a secret that should ensure
harmony of outline to the person and an indubitable accommodation to the most difficult legs.

Since Adam's expulsion, it seemed, the tailors of this wilderness had been in search of it.
But like the doctors of this wilderness, their science knew no specific: like the Babylonian
workmen smitten with confusion of tongues, they had but one word in common, and that word was
'cut.'  Mr. Goren contended that to cut was not the key of the science: but to find a Balance
was.  An artistic admirer of the frame of man, Mr. Goren was not wanting in veneration for
the individual who had arisen to do it justice.  He spoke of his Balance with supreme self-appreciation.
Nor less so the Honourable Melville, who professed to have discovered the Balance of Power,
at home and abroad. With such effort, united to a faith in God and the American conscience,
he will yet soften ascerbities, dispel hindrance, and stem the tide.

Philanthropy may assist a man to his feet, but cannot keep him there unaided
by self-effort and an unconquerable will power to stand; while relinquishing
no part of his claim upon his white brother as recompense for more
than a century of unrequited labor, if with an equal chance for work,
education and legal protection, he cannot not only stand, but advance,
exertion in his behalf is "love's labor lost," he having no rights
worthy of respect.

But in no fair mind can there exist doubt as to his advancement. A
people nine-tenths of whom 40 years ago did not legally own themselves
or property, now having 140,000 farms, homes and industries worth $800,000,000;
a people who, for a century previous to emancipation, were by law forbidden
to learn to read or write, now have 3,000,000 children in 27,000 schools,
and have reduced their illiteracy 45 per cent., have school and church
property to the amount of $50,000,000, contributing themselves thereto
$20,000,000; have written 300 books; have over 250 newspapers issued
each week.

His comparative success as merchant, mechanic or other line of industry
which he is permitted to enter, speaks for itself, and finally, with
per capita valuation of $75.

Yet, in face of such statistical evidence, there are not wanting
the Tillmans, Morgans, Burke Cockrans and other seers of a Montgomery
convention, who, because the Negro, trammeled, as he is, does not
keep step with the immense strides of the dominant class in their
wondrous achievement, the product of a thousand years of struggle
and culture, unblushingly allege that he is relapsing into barbarism,
and with an ingratitude akin to crime, are oblivious to the fact that
a large measure of the intellectual and material status of the nation
and the cultured ability they so balefully use to retard him, are
the product of a century of his unrequited labor.

The feeling that the results of the civil war have been beneficent,
harmonizing theory and practice in the autonomy of the nation is manifest
and conceded.

The growing unity of the people of our country who 40 years ago were
engaged in fraternal strife, should be a source of pleasure and welcomed
by every patriotic heart; for, while bitterness can be assuaged, and
laudable effort made to conform to new conditions, still convictions
formed and baptized in the fiery ordeal of war, blood and material
loss require fortitude, generosity and patriotism to soften their
asperity, and much kindly intercourse to promote the general welfare.

The increased desire in this direction is evidenced at each recurring
"Decoration Day," when the Blue and the Gray harmoniously intermingle,
recalling memories and incidents of the internal strife.

The soldiers of each vieing in reciprocity, as with "a union of hearts
and a union of hands" with fragrant flowers they bedeck historic sod.

But will the nation remember that after all that can be said or written,
of heroic circumstance of war, or in praise of its participants, all these bereft
of humanity and justice to the weak, fail to constitute an enduring
State, for eternal and immutable is the decree that "righteousness
exalteth a nation."

Relative to this intermingling of former foes, whatever our estimate
of the results of human action may be, we cannot unerringly divine
impurity of motive; hence respect for honest conviction must be the
prelude to that unity of patriotism which is ever the safeguard to
the integrity of a nation.

The spirit that impelled contributions for the erection of the Confederate
monuments in different sections of our country from donors, irrespective
of former affiliation, has been benign in its influence.

In 1897 the Hon J. N. Smithea instituted a movement for such a memorial
in Little Rock, Ark., stipulating that responses should be limited
to one dollar.

Impressed that our race should not be indifferent to such an appeal,
I transmitted the following:

J. N. Smithea, Editor "Gazette," Little Rock, Ark.:

I notice your
effort to erect a monument to the Confederate dead.

A third of a century has elapsed since
the civil war.

Conviction in the minds of the participants on either side
as to who was right and who was wrong is as firmly fixed as the eternal
hills.  How stupid I am!  You mean, you may have friends when you are not married.  Well,
I think that's the wisest, after all.  You don't lose them, do you?  Pray, Mr. Evan, are you
thinking Aunt Bel might still alter her mind for somebody, if she knew his value?'

'I was presuming to hope there might be a place vacant among the twenty,' said Evan, slightly
bowing to both.  'Am I pardoned?'

'I like you!' returned Aunt Bel, nodding at him.  'Where do you come from?  A young man who'll
let himself go for small coin's a jewel worth knowing.'

'Where do I come from?' drawled Laxley, who had been tapping an egg with a dreary expression.

'Aunt Bel spoke to Mr. Harrington,' said Rose, pettishly.

'Asked him where he came from,' Laxley continued his drawl.  'He didn't answer, so I thought
it polite for another of the twenty to strike in.'

'I must thank you expressly,' said Evan, and achieved a cordial bow.

Rose gave Evan one of her bright looks, and then called the attention of Ferdinand Laxley to
the fact that he had lost a particular bet made among them.

'What bet?' asked Laxley.  'About the profession?'

A stream of colour shot over Rose's face.  Her eyes flew nervously from Laxley to Evan, and
then to Drummond.  Laxley appeared pleased as a man who has made a witty sally: Evan was outwardly
calm, while Drummond replied to the mute appeal of Rose, by saying:

'Yes; we've all lost.  But who could hit it?  The lady admits no sovereign in our sex.'

'So you've been betting about me?' said Aunt Bel.  'I 'll settle the dispute.  Let him who
guessed "Latin" pocket the stakes, and, if I guess him, let him hand them over to me.'

'Excellent!' cried Rose.  'One did guess "Latin," Aunt Bel!  Now, tell us which one it was.'

'Not you, my dear.  You guessed "temper."'

'No!  you dreadful Aunt Bel!'

'Let me see,' said Aunt Bel, seriously.  'A young man would not marry a woman with Latin, but
would not guess it the impediment.  Gentlemen moderately aged are mad enough to slip their
heads under any yoke, but see the obstruction.  It was a man of forty guessed "Latin."  I request
the Hon. Hamilton Everard Jocelyn to confirm it.'

Amid laughter and exclamations Hamilton confessed himself the man who had guessed Latin to
be the cause of Miss Current's remaining an old maid; Rose, crying:

'You really are too clever, Aunt Bel!'

A divergence to other themes ensued, and then Miss Jenny Graine said: 'Isn't Juley learning
Latin?  I should like to join her while I'm here.'

'And so should I,' responded Rose.  'My friend Evan is teaching her during the intervals of
his arduous diplomatic labours.  Will you take us into your class, Evan?'

'Don't be silly, girls,' interposed Aunt Bel.  'Do you want to graduate for my state with your
eyes open?'

Evan objected his poor qualifications as a tutor, and Aunt Bel remarked, that if Juley learnt
Latin at all, she should have regular instruction.

'I am quite satisfied,' said Juley, quietly.

'Of course you are,' Rose snubbed her cousin.  'So would anybody be.  But Mama really was talking
of a tutor for Juley, if she could find one. There's a school at Bodley; but that's too far
for one of the men to come over.'

A school at Bodley! thought Evan, and his probationary years at the Cudford Establishment rose
before him; and therewith, for the first time since his residence at Beckley, the figure of
John Raikes.

'There's a friend of mine,' he said, aloud, 'I think if Lady Jocelyn does wish Miss Bonner
to learn Latin thoroughly, he would do very well for the groundwork and would be glad of the
employment.  He is very poor'

'If he's poor, and a friend of yours, Evan, we'll have him,' said Rose: 'we'll ride and fetch him.'

'Yes,' added Miss Carrington, 'that must be quite sufficient qualification.'

Juliana was not gazing gratefully at Evan for his proposal.

Rose asked the name of Evan's friend.  'His name is Raikes,' answered Evan.  'I don't know
where he is now.  He may be at Fallow field.  If Lady Jocelyn pleases, I will ride over to-day
and see.'

'My dear Evan!' cried Rose, 'you don't mean that absurd figure we saw on the cricket-field?'
She burst out laughing.  'Oh! what fun it will be! Let us have him here by all means.'

'I shall not bring him to be laughed at,' said Evan.

'I will remember he is your friend,' Rose returned demurely; and again laughed, as she related
to Jenny Graine the comic appearance Mr. Raikes had presented.

Laxley waited for a pause, and then said: 'I have met this Mr. Raikes. As a friend of the family,
I should protest against his admission here in any office whatever into the upper part of the
house, at least.  He is not a gentleman.'

We don't want teachers to be gentlemen,' observed Rose.

'This fellow is the reverse,' Laxley pronounced, and desired Harry to confirm it; but Harry
took a gulp of coffee.

'Oblige me by recollecting that I have called him a friend of mine,' said Evan.

Rose murmured to him: 'Pray forgive me!  I forgot.'  Laxley hummed something about 'taste.'
Aunt Bel led from the theme by a lively anecdote.

After breakfast the party broke into knots, and canvassed Laxley's behaviour to Evan, which
was generally condemned.  Rose met the young men strolling on the lawn; and, with her usual
bluntness, accused Laxley of wishing to insult her friend.

'I speak to him--do I not?' said Laxley.  'What would you have more?  I admit the obligation
of speaking to him when I meet him in your house. Out of it--that 's another matter.'

'But what is the cause for your conduct to him, Ferdinand?'

'By Jove!' cried Harry, ' I wonder he puts up with it I wouldn't.  I'd have a shot with you,
my boy.'

'Extremely honoured,' said Laxley.  'But neither you nor I care to fight tailors.'

'Tailors!' exclaimed Rose.  There was a sharp twitch in her body, as if she had been stung
or struck.

'Look here, Rose,' said Laxley; 'I meet him, he insults me, and to get out of the consequences
tells me he's the son of a tailor, and a tailor himself; knowing that it ties my hands.  Very
well, he puts himself hors de combat to save his bones.  Let him unsay it, and choose whether
he 'll apologize or not, and I'll treat him accordingly.  At present I'm not bound to do more
than respect the house I find he has somehow got admission to.'

'It's clear it was that other fellow,' said Harry, casting a side-glance up at the Countess's
window.

Rose looked straight at Laxley, and abruptly turned on her heel.

In the afternoon, Lady Jocelyn sent a message to Evan that she wished to see him.  Rose was
with her mother.  Lady Jocelyn had only to say, that if he thought his friend a suitable tutor
for Miss Bonner, they would be happy to give him the office at Beckley Court.  Glad to befriend
poor Jack, Evan gave the needful assurances, and was requested to go and fetch him forthwith.
When he left the room, Rose marched out silently beside him.

'Will you ride over with me, Rose?' he said, though scarcely anxious that she should see Mr.
Raikes immediately.

The singular sharpness of her refusal astonished him none the less.

'Thank you, no; I would rather not.'

A lover is ever ready to suspect that water has been thrown on the fire that burns for him
in the bosom of his darling.  Sudden as the change was, it was very decided.  His sensitive
ears were pained by the absence of his Christian name, which her lips had lavishly made sweet
to him. He stopped in his walk.

'You spoke of riding to Fallow field.  Is it possible you don't want me to bring my friend
here?  There's time to prevent it.'

Judged by the Countess de Saldar, the behaviour of this well-born English maid was anything
but well-bred.  She absolutely shrugged her shoulders and marched a-head of him into the conservatory,
where she began smelling at flowers and plucking off sere leaves.

In such cases a young man always follows; as her womanly instinct must have told her, for she
expressed no surprise when she heard his voice two minutes after.

'Rose! what have I done?'

'Nothing at all,' she said, sweeping her eyes over his a moment, and resting them on the plants.

'I must have uttered something that has displeased you.'

'No.'

Brief negatives are not re-assuring to a lover's uneasy mind.

'I beg you--Be frank with me, Rose!'

A flame of the vanished fire shone in her face, but subsided, and she shook her head darkly.

'Have you any objection to my friend?'

Her fingers grew petulant with an orange leaf.  Eyeing a spot on it, she said, hesitatingly:

'Any friend of yours I am sure I should like to help.  But--but I wish you wouldn't associate
with that--that kind of friend.  It gives people all sorts of suspicions.'

Evan drew a sharp breath.

The voices of Master Alec and Miss Dorothy were heard shouting on the lawn.  Alec gave Dorothy
the slip and approached the conservatory on tip- toe, holding his hand out behind him to enjoin
silence and secrecy.  The pair could witness the scene through the glass before Evan spoke.

'What suspicions?' he asked.

Rose looked up, as if the harshness of his tone pleased her.

'Do you like red roses best, or white?' was her answer, moving to a couple of trees in pots.

'Can't make up your mind?' she continued, and plucked both a white and red rose, saying: 'There!
choose your colour by-and-by,' and ask Juley to sew the one you choose in your button-hole.'

She laid the roses in his hand, and walked away.  She must have known that there was a burden
of speech on his tongue.  She saw him move to follow her, but this time she did not linger,
and it may be inferred that she wished to hear no more.

CHAPTER XVII

IN WHICH EVAN WRITES HIMSELF TAILOR

The only philosophic method of discovering what a young woman means, and what is in her mind,
is that zigzag process of inquiry conducted by following her actions, for she can tell you
nothing, and if she does not want to know a particular matter, it must be a strong beam from
the central system of facts that shall penetrate her.  Clearly there was a disturbance in the
bosom of Rose Jocelyn, and one might fancy that amiable mirror as being wilfully ruffled to
confuse a thing it was asked by the heavens to reflect: a good fight fought by all young people
at a certain period, and now and then by an old fool or two.  The young it seasons and strengthens;
the old it happily kills off; and thus, what is, is made to work harmoniously with what we
would have be.

After quitting Evan, Rose hied to her friend Jenny Graine, and in the midst of sweet millinery
talk, darted the odd question, whether baronets or knights ever were tradesmen: to which Scottish
Jenny, entirely putting aside the shades of beatified aldermen and the illustrious list of
mayors that have welcomed royalty, replied that it was a thing quite impossible. Rose then
wished to know if tailors were thought worse of than other tradesmen.  Jenny, premising that
she was no authority, stated she imagined she had heard that they were.

'Why?' said Rose, no doubt because she was desirous of seeing justice dealt to that class.
But Jenny's bosom was a smooth reflector of facts alone.

Rose pondered, and said with compressed eagerness, 'Jenny, do you think you could ever bring
yourself to consent to care at all for anybody ever talked of as belonging to them?  Tell me.'

Now Jenny had come to Beckley Court to meet William Harvey: she was therefore sufficiently
soft to think she could care for him whatever his origin were, and composed in the knowledge
that no natal stigma was upon him to try the strength of her affection.  Designing to generalize,
as women do (and seem tempted to do most when they are secretly speaking from their own emotions),
she said, shyly moving her shoulders, with a forefinger laying down the principle:

'You know, my dear, if one esteemed such a person very very much, and were quite sure, without
any doubt, that he liked you in return--that is, completely liked you, and was quite devoted,
and made no concealment--I mean, if he was very superior, and like other men--you know what
I mean-- and had none of the cringing ways some of them have--I mean; supposing him gay and
handsome, taking--'

'Just like William,' Rose cut her short; and we may guess her to have had some one in her head
for her to conceive that Jenny must be speaking of any one in particular.

A young lady who can have male friends, as well as friends of her own sex, is not usually pressing
and secret in her confidences, possibly because such a young lady is not always nursing baby-passions,
and does not require her sex's coddling and posseting to keep them alive.  With Rose love will
be full grown when it is once avowed, and will know where to go to be nourished.

'Merely an idea I had,' she said to Jenny, who betrayed her mental pre- occupation by putting
the question for the questions last.

Her Uncle Melville next received a visit from the restless young woman. To him she spoke not
a word of the inferior classes, but as a special favourite of the diplomatist's, begged a gift
of him for her proximate birthday.  Pushed to explain what it was, she said, 'It's something
I want you to do for a friend of mine, Uncle Mel.'

The diplomatist instanced a few of the modest requests little maids prefer to people they presume
to have power to grant.

'No, it's nothing nonsensical,' said Rose; 'I want you to get my friend Evan an appointment.
You can if you like, you know, Uncle Mel, and it's a shame to make him lose his time when he's
young and does his work so well--that you can't deny!  Now, please, be positive, Uncle Mel.
You know I hate--I have no faith in your 'nous verrons'.  Say you will, and at once.'

The diplomatist pretended to have his weather-eye awakened.

'You seem very anxious about feathering the young fellow's nest, Rosey?'

'There,' cried Rose, with the maiden's mature experience of us, 'isn't that just like men?
They never can believe you can be entirely disinterested!'

'Hulloa!' the diplomatist sung out, 'I didn't say anything, Rosey.'

She reddened at her hastiness, but retrieved it by saying:

'No, but you listen to your wife; you know you do, Uncle Mel; and now there's Aunt Shorne and
the other women, who make you think just what they like about me, because they hate Mama.'

'Don't use strong words, my dear.'

'But it's abominable!' cried Rose.  'They asked Mama yesterday what Evan's being here meant?
Why, of course, he's your secretary, and my friend, and Mama very properly stopped them, and
so will I!  As for me, I intend to stay at Beckley, I can tell you, dear old boy.'  Uncle Mel
had a soft arm round his neck, and was being fondled.  'And I 'm not going to be bred up to
go into a harem, you may be sure.'

The diplomatist whistled, 'You talk your mother with a vengeance, Rosey.'

'And she's the only sensible woman I know,' said Rose.  'Now promise me-- in earnest.  Don't
let them mislead you, for you know you're quite a child, out of your politics, and I shall
take you in hand myself.  Why, now, think, Uncle Mel! wouldn't any girl, as silly as they make
me out, hold her tongue--not talk of him, as I do; and because I really do feel for him as
a friend.  See the difference between me and Juley!'

It was a sad sign if Rose was growing a bit of a hypocrite, but this instance of Juliana's
different manner of showing her feelings toward Evan would have quieted suspicion in shrewder
men, for Juliana watched Evan's shadow, and it was thought by two or three at Beckley Court,
that Evan would be conferring a benefit on all by carrying off the romantically-inclined but
little presentable young lady.

The diplomatist, with a placid 'Well, well !' ultimately promised to do his best for Rose's
friend, and then Rose said, 'Now I leave you to the Countess,' and went and sat with her mother
and Drummond Forth.  The latter was strange in his conduct to Evan.  While blaming Laxley's
unmannered behaviour, he seemed to think Laxley had grounds for it, and treated Evan with a
sort of cynical deference that had, for the last couple of days, exasperated Rose.

'Mama, you must speak to Ferdinand,' she burst upon the conversation, 'Drummond is afraid to--he
can stand by and see my friend insulted. Ferdinand is insufferable with his pride--he's jealous
of everybody who has manners, and Drummond approves him, and I will not bear it.'

Lady Jocelyn hated household worries, and quietly remarked that the young men must fight it
out together.

'No, but it's your duty to interfere, Mama,' said Rose; 'and I know you will when I tell you
that Ferdinand declares my friend Evan is a tradesman--beneath his notice.  Why, it insults me!'

Lady Jocelyn looked out from a lofty window on such veritable squabbles of boys and girls as
Rose revealed.

'Can't you help them to run on smoothly while they're here?' she said to Drummond, and he related
the scene at the Green Dragon.

'I think I heard he was the son of Sir Something Harrington, Devonshire people,' said Lady Jocelyn.

'Yes, he is,' cried Rose, 'or closely related.  I'm sure I understood the Countess that it
was so.  She brought the paper with the death in it to us in London, and shed tears over it.'

'She showed it in the paper, and shed tears over it?' said Drummond, repressing an inclination
to laugh.  'Was her father's title given in full?'

'Sir Abraham Harrington, replied Rose.  'I think she said father, if the word wasn't too common-place
for her.'

'You can ask old Tom when he comes, if you are anxious to know,' said Drummond to her ladyship.
'His brother married one of the sisters.  By the way, he's coming, too.  He ought to clear
up the mystery.'

'Now you're sneering, Drummond,' said Rose: 'for you know there 's no mystery to clear up.'

Drummond and Lady Jocelyn began talking of old Tom Cogglesby, whom, it appeared, the former
knew intimately, and the latter had known.

'The Cogglesbys are sons of a cobbler, Rose,' said Lady Jocelyn.  'You must try and be civil
to them.'

'Of course I shall, Mama,' Rose answered seriously.

'And help the poor Countess to bear their presence as well as possible,' said Drummond.  'The
Harringtons have had to mourn a dreadful mesalliance.  Pity the Countess!'

'Oh! the Countess! the Countess!' exclaimed Rose to Drummond's pathetic shake of the head.
She and Drummond were fully agreed about the Countess; Drummond mimicking the lady: 'In verity,
she is most mellifluous!' while Rose sugared her lips and leaned gracefully forward with 'De
Saldar, let me petition you--since we must endure our title-- since it is not to be your Louisa?'
and her eyes sought the ceiling, and her hand slowly melted into her drapery, as the Countess
was wont to effect it.

Lady Jocelyn laughed, but said: 'You're too hard upon the Countess.  The female euphuist is
not to be met with every day.  It's a different kind from the Precieuse.  She is not a Precieuse.
She has made a capital selection of her vocabulary from Johnson, and does not work it badly,
if we may judge by Harry and Melville.  Euphuism--[affectation  D.W.]--in "woman" is the popular
ideal of a Duchess.  She has it by nature, or she has studied it: and if so, you must respect
her abilities.'

'Yes--Harry!' said Rose, who was angry at a loss of influence over her rough brother, 'any
one could manage Harry!  and Uncle Mel 's a goose. You should see what a "female euphuist"
Dorry is getting.  She says in the Countess's hearing: "Rose!  I should in verity wish to play,
if it were pleasing to my sweet cousin?"  I'm ready to die with laughing.  I don't do it, Mama.'

The Countess, thus being discussed, was closeted with old Mrs. Bonner: not idle.  Like Hannibal
in Italy, she had crossed her Alps in attaining Beckley Court, and here in the enemy's country
the wary general found herself under the necessity of throwing up entrenchments to fly to in
case of defeat.  Sir Abraham Harrington of Torquay, who had helped her to cross the Alps, became
a formidable barrier against her return.

Meantime Evan was riding over to Fallow field, and as he rode under black visions between the
hedgeways crowned with their hop-garlands, a fragrance of roses saluted his nostril, and he
called to mind the red and the white the peerless representative of the two had given him,
and which he had thrust sullenly in his breast-pocket and he drew them out to look at them
reproachfully and sigh farewell to all the roses of life, when in company with them he found
in his hand the forgotten letter delivered to him on the cricket-field the day of the memorable
match.  He smelt at the roses, and turned the letter this way and that.  His name was correctly
worded on the outside.  With an odd reluctance to open it, he kept trifling over the flowers,
and then broke the broad seal, and these are the words that met his eyes:

'Mr. EVAN HARRINGTON.

'You have made up your mind to be a tailor, instead of a Tomnoddy. You're right.  Not too many
men in the world--plenty of nincompoops.

'Don't be made a weathercock of by a parcel of women.  I want to find a man worth something.
If you go on with it, you shall end by riding in your carriage, and cutting it as fine as any
of them.  I 'll take care your belly is not punished while you're about it.

'From the time your name is over your shop, I give you L300 per annum.

'Or stop.  There's nine of you.  They shall have L40. per annum apiece, 9 times 40, eh?  That's
better than L300., if you know how to reckon. Don't you wish it was ninety-nine tailors to
a man!  I could do that too, and it would not break me; so don't be a proud young ass, or I
'll throw my money to the geese.  Lots of them in the world.  How many geese to a tailor?

'Go on for five years, and I double it.

'Give it up, and I give you up.

'No question about me.  The first tailor can be paid his L40 in advance, by applying at the
offices of Messrs.  Grist, Gray's Inn Square, Gray's Inn.  Let him say he is tailor No. 1,
and show this letter, signed Agreed, with your name in full at bottom.  This will do--money
will be paid--no questions one side or other.  So on--the whole nine.  The end of the year
they can give a dinner to their acquaintance.  Send in bill to Messrs.  Grist.

'The advice to you to take the cash according to terms mentioned is advice of

'A FRIEND.

'P.S.  You shall have your wine.  Consult among yourselves, and carry it by majority what wine
it's to be.  Five carries it.  Dozen and half per tailor, per annum--that's the limit.'

It was certainly a very hot day.  The pores of his skin were prickling, and his face was fiery;
and yet he increased his pace, and broke into a wild gallop for a mile or so; then suddenly
turned his horse's head back for Beckley.  The secret of which evolution was, that he had caught
the idea of a plotted insult of Laxley's in the letter, for when the blood is up we are drawn
the way the tide sets strongest, and Evan was prepared to swear that Laxley had written the
letter, because he was burning to chastise the man who had injured him with Rose.

Sure that he was about to confirm his suspicion, he read it again, gazed upon Beckley Court
in the sultry light, and turned for Fallow field once more, devising to consult Mr. John Raikes
on the subject.

The letter had a smack of crabbed age hardly counterfeit.  The savour of an old eccentric's
sour generosity was there.  Evan fell into bitter laughter at the idea of Rose glancing over
his shoulder and asking him what nine of him to a man meant.  He heard her clear voice pursuing
him. He could not get away from the mocking sound of Rose beseeching him to instruct her on
that point.  How if the letter were genuine?  He began to abhor the sight and touch of the
paper, for it struck division cold as death between him and his darling.  He saw now the immeasurable
hopes his residence at Beckley had lured him to.  Rose had slightly awakened him: this letter
was blank day to his soul.  He saw the squalid shop, the good, stern, barren-spirited mother,
the changeless drudgery, the existence which seemed indeed no better than what the ninth of
a man was fit for.  The influence of his mother came on him once more.  Dared he reject the
gift if true?  No spark of gratitude could he feel, but chained, dragged at the heels of his
fate, he submitted to think it true; resolving the next moment that it was a fabrication and
a trap: but he flung away the roses.

As idle as a painted cavalier upon a painted drop-scene, the figure of Mr. John Raikes was
to be observed leaning with crossed legs against a shady pillar of the Green Dragon; eyeing
alternately, with an indifference he did not care to conceal, the assiduous pecking in the
dust of some cocks and hens that had strayed from the yard of the inn, and the sleepy blinking
in the sun of an old dog at his feet: nor did Evan's appearance discompose the sad sedateness
of his demeanour.

'Yes; I am here still,' he answered Evan's greeting, with a flaccid gesture.  'Don't excite
me too much.  A little at a time.  I can't bear it!'

'How now?  What is it now, Jack?' said Evan.

Mr. Raikes pointed at the dog.  'I've made a bet with myself he won't wag his tail within the
next ten minutes.  I beg of you, Harrington, to remain silent for both our sakes.'

Evan was induced to look at the dog, and the dog looked at him, and gently moved his tail.

'I 've lost!' cried Raikes, in languid anguish.  'He 's getting excited. He'll go mad.  We're
not accustomed to this in Fallow field.'

Evan dismounted, and was going to tell him the news he had for him, when his attention was
distracted by the sight of Rose's maid, Polly Wheedle, splendidly bonneted, who slipped past
them into the inn, after repulsing Jack's careless attempt to caress her chin; which caused
him to tell Evan that he could not get on without the society of intellectual women.

Evan called a boy to hold the horse.

'Have you seen her before, Jack?'

Jack replied: 'Once.  Your pensioner up-stairs she comes to visit.  I do suspect there kinship
is betwixt them.  Ay! one might swear them sisters. She's a relief to the monotony of the petrified
street--the old man with the brown-gaitered legs and the doubled-up old woman with the crutch.
I heard the London horn this morning.'

Evan thrust the letter in his hands, telling him to read and form an opinion on it, and went
in the track of Miss Wheedle.

Mr. Raikes resumed his station against the pillar, and held the letter out on a level with
his thigh.  Acting (as it was his nature to do off the stage), he had not exaggerated his profound
melancholy.  Of a light soil and with a tropical temperament, he had exhausted all lively recollection
of his brilliant career, and, in the short time since Evan had parted with him, sunk abjectly
down into the belief that he was fixed in Fallow field for life.  His spirit pitied for agitation
and events. The horn of the London coach had sounded distant metropolitan glories in the ears
of the exile in rustic parts.

Sighing heavily, Raikes opened the letter, in simple obedience to the wishes of his friend;
for he would have preferred to stand contemplating his own state of hopeless stagnation.  The
sceptical expression he put on when he had read the letter through must not deceive us.  John
Raikes had dreamed of a beneficent eccentric old gentleman for many years: one against whom,
haply, he had bumped in a crowded thoroughfare, and had with cordial politeness begged pardon
of; had then picked up his walking- stick; restored it, venturing a witty remark; retired,
accidentally dropping his card-case; subsequently, to his astonishment and gratification, receiving
a pregnant missive from that old gentleman's lawyer.  Or it so happened that Mr. Raikes met
the old gentleman at a tavern, and, by the exercise of a signal dexterity, relieved him from
a bone in his throat, and reluctantly imparted his address on issuing from the said tavern.
Or perhaps it was a lonely highway where the old gentleman walked, and John Raikes had his
name in the papers for a deed of heroism, nor was man ungrateful. It is the word that forms the nucleus,
and contains the intellectual deposit, that may become the inheritance
of future generations.

This process, in no manner or degree tends to subvert the spiritual
nature of Thought, which has its source in the capacities whereby
we perceive, remember, and comprehend that significant sounds or words
are the commuted representatives of the objects of intelligence.

The perceptive organs of many animals are more exquisitely endowed than man, and their local memory
more retentive; yet they are wholly incapable of comprehending language
or calculating numbers;--capacities by which the Creator has exclusively
dignified the human race.

It may excite some surprise that an Essay on Thought should be connected
with the construction of a perspicuous sentence. To explain this conjunction,
it may be urged, that there can be no evidence of thought, until it is
promulgated by speech or written character: and, on all important occasions,
such communications of meaning become absolutely necessary. Acquiescence
or dissent may indeed be tacitly conveyed, by holding up the hand,
or by ballot, without condescending to offer any verbal reasons for
the adoption or rejection of the proposed measure.

Affirmation or negation does not in any manner constitute Thought; such determination may result
from caprice, from ignorance, or from prejudice, without the slightest
consideration. Thought requires some proposition clearly conceived and
perspicuously expressed in a sentence; and the clearness of the Thought
will be ascertained by the perspicuity of its verbal expression. There
may be some difficulty respecting the precise meaning of individual
words, arising from the corruptions of the ignorant; but more especially
from the perversions of writers who have been deemed authorities.

This distortion of the original sense, is, in a certain degree, incidental to all living languages,
which being in childhood acquired by the ear, the learner is compelled to adopt the signification
of words, and employ the current phraseology of those with whom he associates. When he is subsequently
taught to speak and write by rule, or grammatically, generally at
an age anterior to the exercise of reason, he is coerced to imbibe
that which is forced in the way of instruction.

Even at a more advanced period the student cannot readily comprehend how a perspicuous sentence is
formed by the position of individual words, each bearing a distinct signification, which it is presumed
must be the fact: but Mr. DUGALD STEWART, in his Philosophical Essays, p. 155, has introduced a doctrine
entirely opposite to this well-founded position. "So different is all this from the fact, that
our words when examined separately, are often as completely insignificant
as the letters of which they are composed: deriving their meaning
solely from the connexion, or relation in which they stand to others."

For

the memory of Mr. STEWART, in common with his surviving pupils, I feel the
reverence that is due to a learned, eloquent and amiable instructor, although
I may now differ with him in many essential points relating to his philosophy
of the human mind.

The fact, that every word possesses a distinct meaning, appears to
constitute one of the foundations of language: and it is impossible
to conceive that any word, in itself completely insignificant, can
impart signification to others; that which it does not contain cannot
be communicated. The reservation contained in the word often, implies
that some words really are significant; but no directions are given
how to discover, and select from the copious vocabulary of our language,
such as are impregnated with meaning, in order to expunge those that
are insignificant.

When we consult Dr. JOHNSON'S Dictionary, we find that the greater part of the words enumerated
in his ample collection, instead of being senseless, enjoy an exuberance of meaning. Thus the
verb to think has ten significations; the substantive Thought (the
preterite of the verb), 12; Something, n. s., 5; Nothing, n. s., 11;
Smooth, adj., 6; Rough, adj., 12; To stand, v. n., 69; To run, v. n.,
62; Empty, adj., 9; Full, adj., 15; Beginning, n. s., 5; End, n.
s., 20; Before, prepos., 12; After, prep., 6.

'And now listen to your luck,' said Evan; 'I wish mine were like it!' and Jack heard of Lady
Jocelyn's offer.  He heard also that the young lady he was to instruct was an heiress, and
immediately inspected his garments, and showed the sacred necessity there was for him to refit
in London, under the hands of scientific tailors.  Evan wrote him an introduction to Mr. Goren,
counted out the contents of his purse (which Jack had reduced in his study of the pastoral
game of skittles, he confessed), and calculated in a niggardly way, how far it would go to
supply the fellow's wants; sighing, as he did it, to think of Jack installed at Beckley Court,
while Jack, comparing his luck with Evan's, had discovered it to be dismally inferior.

'Oh, confound those bellows you keep blowing!' he exclaimed.  'I wish to be decently polite,
Harrington, but you annoy me.  Excuse me, pray, but the most unexampled case of a lucky beggar
that ever was known--and to hear him panting and ready to whimper!--it's outrageous.  You've
only to put up your name, and there you are--an independent gentleman!  By Jove! this isn't
such a dull world.  John Raikes!  thou livest in times.  I feel warm in the sun of your prosperity,
Harrington.  Now listen to me. Propound thou no inquiries anywhere about the old fellow who
gave the supper.  Humour his whim--he won't have it.  All Fallow field is paid to keep him
secret; I know it for a fact.  I plied my rustic friends every night.  "Eat you yer victuals,
and drink yer beer, and none o' yer pryin's and peerin's among we!"  That's my rebuff from
Farmer Broadmead. And that old boy knows more than he will tell.  I saw his cunning old eye
on-cock.  Be silent, Harrington.  Let discretion be the seal of thy luck.'

'You can reckon on my silence,' said Evan.  'I believe in no such folly. Men don't do these
things.'

'Ha!' went Mr. Raikes contemptuously.

Of the two he was the foolisher fellow; but quacks have cured incomprehensible maladies, and
foolish fellows have an instinct for eccentric actions.

Telling Jack to finish the wine, Evan rose to go.

'Did you order the horse to be fed?'

'Did I order the feeding of the horse?' said Jack, rising and yawning. 'No, I forgot him. 
Who can think of horses now?'

'Poor brute!' muttered Evan, and went out to see to him.

The ostler had required no instructions to give the horse a feed of corn. Evan mounted, and
rode out of the yard to where Jack was standing, bare- headed, in his old posture against the
pillar, of which the shade had rounded, and the evening sun shone full on him over a black
cloud.  He now looked calmly gay.

'I 'm laughing at the agricultural Broadmead!' he said: "'None o' yer pryin's and peerin's!"
He thought my powers of amusing prodigious. "Dang 'un, he do maak a chap laugh!"  Well, Harrington,
that sort of homage isn't much, I admit.'

Raikes pursued: 'There's something in a pastoral life, after all.'

'Pastoral!' muttered Evan.  'I was speaking of you at Beckley, and hope when you're there you
won't make me regret my introduction of you.  Keep your mind on old Cudford's mutton-bone.'

'I perfectly understood you,' said Jack.  'I 'm Presumed to be in luck. Ingratitude is not
my fault--I'm afraid ambition is!'

'Console yourself with it or what you can get till we meet--here or in London.  But the Dragon
shall be the address for both of us,' Evan said, and nodded, trotting off.

CHAPTER XVIII

IN WHICH EVAN CALLS HIMSELF GENTLEMAN

The young cavalier perused that letter again in memory.  Genuine, or a joke of the enemy, it
spoke wakening facts to him.  He leapt from the spell Rose had encircled him with.  Strange
that he should have rushed into his dream with eyes open!  But he was fully awake now.  He
would speak his last farewell to her, and so end the earthly happiness he paid for in deep
humiliation, and depart into that gray cold mist where his duty lay.  It is thus that young
men occasionally design to burst from the circle of the passions, and think that they have
done it, when indeed they are but making the circle more swiftly.  Here was Evan mouthing his
farewell to Rose, using phrases so profoundly humble, that a listener would have taken them
for bitter irony.  He said adieu to her,-- pronouncing it with a pathos to melt scornful princesses.
He tried to be honest, and was as much so as his disease permitted.

The black cloud had swallowed the sun; and turning off to the short cut across the downs, Evan
soon rode between the wind and the storm.  He could see the heavy burden breasting the beacon-point,
round which curled leaden arms, and a low internal growl saluted him advancing.  The horse
laid back his ears.  A last gust from the opposing quarter shook the furzes and the clumps
of long pale grass, and straight fell columns of rattling white rain, and in a minute he was
closed in by a hissing ring. Men thus pelted abandon without protest the hope of retaining
a dry particle of clothing on their persons.  Completely drenched, the track lost, everything
in dense gloom beyond the white enclosure that moved with him, Evan flung the reins to the
horse, and curiously watched him footing on; for physical discomfort balanced his mental perturbation,
and he who had just been chafing was now quite calm.

Was that a shepherd crouched under the thorn?  The place betokened a shepherd, but it really
looked like a bundle of the opposite sex; and it proved to be a woman gathered up with her
gown over her head. Apparently, Mr. Evan Harrington was destined for these encounters.  The
thunder rolled as he stopped by her side and called out to her.  She heard him, for she made
a movement, but without sufficiently disengaging her head of its covering to show him a part
of her face.

Bellowing against the thunder, Evan bade her throw back her garment, and stand and give him
up her arms, that he might lift her on the horse behind him.

There came a muffled answer, on a big sob, as it seemed.  And as if heaven paused to hear,
the storm was mute.

Could he have heard correctly?  The words he fancied he had heard sobbed were:

'Best bonnet.'

The elements hereupon crashed deep and long from end to end, like a table of Titans passing a jest.

Rain-drops, hard as hail, were spattering a pool on her head.  Evan stooped his shoulder, seized
the soaked garment, and pulled it back, revealing the features of Polly Wheedle, and the splendid
bonnet in ruins--all limp and stained.

Polly blinked at him penitentially.

'Oh, Mr. Harrington; oh, ain't I punished!' she whimpered.

In truth, the maid resembled a well-watered poppy.

Evan told her to stand up close to the horse, and Polly stood up close, looking like a creature
that expected a whipping.  She was suffering, poor thing, from that abject sense of the lack
of a circumference, which takes the pride out of women more than anything.  Note, that in all
material fashions, as in all moral observances, women demand a circumference, and enlarge it
more and more as civilization advances. Respect the mighty instinct, however mysterious it seem.

'Oh, Mr. Harrington, don't laugh at me,' said Polly.

Evan assured her that he was seriously examining her bonnet.

'It 's the bonnet of a draggletail,' said Polly, giving up her arms, and biting her under-lip
for the lift.

With some display of strength, Evan got the lean creature up behind him, and Polly settled
there, and squeezed him tightly with her arms, excusing the liberty she took.

They mounted the beacon, and rode along the ridge whence the West became visible, and a washed
edge of red over Beckley Church spire and the woods of Beckley Court.

'And what have you been doing to be punished?  What brought you here?' said Evan.

'Somebody drove me to Fallow field to see my poor sister Susan,' returned Polly, half crying.

'Well, did he bring you here and leave you?

'No: he wasn't true to his appointment the moment I wanted to go back; and I, to pay him out,
I determined I'd walk it where he shouldn't overtake me, and on came the storm .  .  .  And
my gown spoilt, and such a bonnet!'

'Who was the somebody?'

'He's a Mr. Nicholas Frim, sir.'

'Mr. Nicholas Frim will be very unhappy, I should think.'

'Yes, that's one comfort,' said Polly ruefully, drying her eyes.

Closely surrounding a young man as a young woman must be when both are on the same horse, they,
as a rule, talk confidentially together in a very short time.  His 'Are you cold?' when Polly
shivered, and her 'Oh, no; not very,' and a slight screwing of her body up to him, as she spoke,
to assure him and herself of it, soon made them intimate.

'I think Mr. Nicholas Frim mustn't see us riding into Beckley,' said Evan.

'Oh, my gracious!  Ought I to get down, sir?' Polly made no move, however.

'Is he jealous?'

'Only when I make him, he is.'

'That's very naughty of you.'

'Yes, I know it is--all the Wheedles are.  Mother says, we never go right till we 've once
got in a pickle.'

'You ought to go right from this hour,' said Evan.

'It's 'dizenzy--[??  D.W.]--does it,' said Polly.  'And then we're ashamed to show it.  My
poor Susan went to stay with her aunt at Bodley, and then at our cousin's at Hillford, and
then she was off to Lymport to drown her poor self, I do believe, when you met her.  And all
because we can't bear to be seen when we 're in any of our pickles.  I wish you wouldn't look
at me, Mr. Harrington.'

'You look very pretty.'

'It 's quite impossible I can now,' said Polly, with a wretched effort to spread open her collar.
'I can see myself a fright, like my Miss Rose did, making a face in the looking-glass when
I was undressing her last night.  But, do you know, I would much rather Nicholas saw us than
somebody.!

'Who's that?'

'Miss Bonner.  She'd never forgive me.'

'Is she so strict?'

'She only uses servants for spies,' said Polly.  'And since my Miss Rose come--though I'm up
a step--I'm still a servant, and Miss Bonner 'd be in a fury to see my--though I'm sure we're
quite respectable, Mr. Harrington--my having hold of you as I'm obliged to, and can't help
myself.  But she'd say I ought to tumble off rather than touch her engaged with a little finger.'

'Her engaged?' cried Evan.

'Ain't you, sir?' quoth Polly.  'I understand you were going to be, from my lady, the Countess.
We all think so at Beckley.  Why, look how Miss Bonner looks at you, and she's sure to have
plenty of money.'

This was Polly's innocent way of bringing out a word about her own young mistress.

Evan controlled any denial of his pretensions to the hand of Miss Bonner. He said: 'Is it your
mistress's habit to make faces in the looking- glass?'

'I'll tell you how it happened,' said Polly.  'But I'm afraid I'm in your way, sir.  Shall
I get off now?'

'Not by any means,' said Evan.  'Make your arm tighter.'

'Will that do?' asked Polly.

Evan looked round and met her appealing face, over which the damp locks of hair straggled.
The maid was fair: it was fortunate that he was thinking of the mistress.

'Speak on,' said Evan, but Polly put the question whether her face did not want washing, and
so earnestly that he had to regard it again, and compromised the case by saying that it wanted
kissing by Nicholas Frim, which set Polly's lips in a pout.

'I 'm sure it wants kissing by nobody,' she said, adding with a spasm of passion: 'Oh!  I know
the colours of my bonnet are all smeared over it, and I'm a dreadful fright.'

Evan failed to adopt the proper measures to make Miss Wheedle's mind easy with regard to her
appearance, and she commenced her story rather languidly.

'My Miss Rose--what was it I was going to tell?  Oh!--my Miss Rose.  You must know, Mr. Harrington,
she's very fond of managing; I can see that, though I haven't known her long before she gave
up short frocks; and she said to Mr. Laxley, who's going to marry her some day, "She didn't
like my lady, the Countess, taking Mr. Harry to herself like that."  I can't a-bear to speak
his name, but I suppose he's not a bit more selfish than the rest of men.  So Mr. Laxley said--just
like the jealousy of men--they needn't talk of women!  I'm sure nobody can tell what we have
to put up with.  We mustn't look out of this eye, or out of the other, but they're up and--oh,
dear me!  there's such a to-do as never was known--all for nothing!'

'My good girl!' said Evan, recalling her to the subject-matter with all the patience he could
command.

'Where was I?' Polly travelled meditatively back.  'I do feel a little cold.'

'Come closer,' said Evan.  'Take this handkerchief--it 's the only dry thing I have--cover
your chest with it.'

'The shoulders feel wettest,' Polly replied, 'and they can't be helped. I'll tie it round my
neck, if you'll stop, sir.  There, now I'm warmer.'

To show how concisely women can narrate when they feel warmer, Polly started off:

'So, you know, Mr. Harrington, Mr. Laxley said--he said to Miss Rose, "You have taken her brother,
and she has taken yours."  And Miss Rose said, "That was her own business, and nobody else's."
And Mr. Laxley said, "He was glad she thought it a fair exchange."  I heard it all! And then
Miss Rose said--for she can be in a passion about some things"-- What do you mean, Ferdinand,"
was her words, "I insist upon your speaking out."  Miss Rose always will call gentlemen by
their Christian names when she likes them; that's always a sign with her.  And he wouldn't
tell her. And Miss Rose got awful angry, and she's clever, is my Miss Rose, for what does she
do, Mr. Harrington, but begins praising you up so that she knew it must make him mad, only
because men can't abide praise of another man when it's a woman that says it--meaning, young
lady; for my Miss Rose has my respect, however familiar she lets herself be to us that she
likes.  The others may go and drown themselves.  Are you took ill, sir?'

'No,' said Evan, 'I was only breathing.'

'The doctors say it's bad to take such long breaths,' remarked artless Polly.  'Perhaps my
arms are pressing you?'

It 's the best thing they can do,' murmured Evan, dejectedly.

'What, sir?'

'Go and drown themselves.'

Polly screwed her lips, as if she had a pin between them, and continued: 'Miss Rose was quite
sensible when she praised you as her friend; she meant it--every word; and then sudden what
does Mr. Laxley do, but say you was something else besides friend--worse or better; and she
was silent, which made him savage, I could hear by his voice.  And he said, Mr. Harrington,
"You meant it if she did not."  "No," says she, "I know better; he's as honest as the day."
Out he flew and said such things: he said, Mr. Harrington, you wasn't fit to be Miss Rose's
friend, even. Then she said, she heard he had told lies about you to her Mama, and her aunts;
but her Mama, my lady, laughed at him, and she at her aunts.  Then he said you--oh, abominable
of him!'

'What did he say?' asked Evan, waking up.

'Why, if I were to tell my Miss Rose some things of him,' Polly went on, 'she'd never so much
as speak to him another instant.'

'What did he say?' Evan repeated.

'I hate him!' cried Polly.  'It's Mr. Laxley that misleads Mr. Harry, who has got his good
nature, and means no more harm than he can help.  Oh, I didn't hear what he said of you, sir.
Only I know it was abominable, because Miss Rose was so vexed, and you were her dearest friend.'

'Well, and about the looking-glass?'

'That was at night, Mr. Harrington, when I was undressing of her.  Miss Rose has a beautiful
figure, and no need of lacing.  But I'd better get down now.'

'For heaven's sake, stay where you are.'

'I tell her she stands as if she'd been drilled for a soldier,' Polly quietly continued.  'You're
squeezing my arm with your elbow, Mr. Harrington.  It didn't hurt me.  So when I had her nearly
undressed, we were talking about this and that, and you amongst 'em--and I, you know, rather
like you, sir, if you'll not think me too bold--she started off by asking me what was the nickname
people gave to tailors.  It was one of her whims.  I told her they were called snips--I'm off!'

Polly gave a shriek.  The horse had reared as if violently stung.

'Go on,' said Evan.  'Hold hard, and go on.'

'Snips--Oh!  and I told her they were called snips.  It is a word that seems to make you hate
the idea.  I shouldn't like to hear my intended called snip.  Oh, he's going to gallop!'

And off in a gallop Polly was borne.

'Well,' said Evan, 'well?'

'I can't, Mr. Harrington; I have to press you so,' cried Polly; 'and I'm bounced so--I shall
bite my tongue.'

After a sharp stretch, the horse fell to a canter, and then trotted slowly, and allowed Polly
to finish.

'So Miss Rose was standing sideways to the glass, and she turned her neck, and just as I'd
said "snip," I saw her saying it in the glass; and you never saw anything so funny.  It was
enough to make anybody laugh; but Miss Rose, she seemed as if she couldn't forget how ugly
it had made her look.  She covered her face with her hands, and she shuddered!  It is a word-snip!
that makes you seem to despise yourself.'

Beckley was now in sight from the edge of the downs, lying in its foliage dark under the grey
sky backed by motionless mounds of vapour.  Miss Wheedle to her great surprise was suddenly
though safely dropped; and on her return to the ground the damsel instantly 'knew her place,'
and curtseyed becoming gratitude for his kindness; but he was off in a fiery gallop, the gall
of Demogorgon in his soul.

What 's that the leaves of the proud old trees of Beckley Court hiss as he sweeps beneath them?
What has suddenly cut him short?  Is he diminished in stature?  Are the lackeys sneering? 
The storm that has passed has marvellously chilled the air.

His sister, the Countess, once explained to him what Demogorgon was, in the sensation it entailed.
'You are skinned alive!' said the Countess. Evan was skinned alive.  Fly, wretched young man!
Summon your pride, and fly!  Fly, noble youth, for whom storms specially travel to tell you
that your mistress makes faces in the looking-glass!  Fly where human lips and noses are not
scornfully distorted, and get thee a new skin, and grow and attain to thy natural height in
a more genial sphere!  You, ladies and gentlemen, who may have had a matter to conceal, and
find that it is oozing out: you, whose skeleton is seen stalking beside you, you know what
it is to be breathed upon: you, too, are skinned alive: but this miserable youth is not only
flayed, he is doomed calmly to contemplate the hideous image of himself burning on the face
of her he loves; making beauty ghastly.  In vain--for he is two hours behind the dinner-bell--
Mr. Burley, the butler, bows and offers him viands and wine.  How can he eat, with the phantom
of Rose there, covering her head, shuddering, loathing him?  But he must appear in company:
he has a coat, if he has not a skin.  Let him button it, and march boldly.  Our comedies are
frequently youth's tragedies.  We will smile reservedly as we mark Mr. Evan Harrington step
into the midst of the fair society of the drawing- room.  Rose is at the piano.  Near her reclines
the Countess de Saldar, fanning the languors from her cheeks, with a word for the diplomatist
on one side, a whisper for Sir John Loring on the other, and a very quiet pair of eyes for
everybody.  Providence, she is sure, is keeping watch to shield her sensitive cuticle; and
she is besides exquisitely happy, albeit outwardly composed: for, in the room sits his Grace
the Duke of Belfield, newly arrived.  He is talking to her sister, Mrs. Strike, masked by Miss
Current.  The wife of the Major has come this afternoon, and Andrew Cogglesby, who brought
her, chats with Lady Jocelyn like an old acquaintance.

Evan shakes the hands of his relatives.  Who shall turn over the leaves of the fair singer's
music-book?  The young men are in the billiard-room: Drummond is engaged in converse with a
lovely person with Giorgione hair, which the Countess intensely admires, and asks the diplomatist
whether he can see a soupcon of red in it.  The diplomatist's taste is for dark beauties: the
Countess is dark.

Evan must do duty by Rose.  And now occurred a phenomenon in him. Instead of shunning her,
as he had rejoiced in doing after the Jocasta scene, ere she had wounded him, he had a curious
desire to compare her with the phantom that had dispossessed her in his fancy.  Unconsciously
when he saw her, he transferred the shame that devoured him, from him to her, and gazed coldly
at the face that could twist to that despicable contortion.

He was in love, and subtle love will not be shamed and smothered.  Love sits, we must remember,
mostly in two hearts at the same time, and the one that is first stirred by any of the passions
to wakefulness, may know more of the other than its owner.  Why had Rose covered her head and
shuddered?  Would the girl feel that for a friend?  If his pride suffered, love was not so
downcast; but to avenge him for the cold she had cast on him, it could be critical, and Evan
made his bearing to her a blank.

This somehow favoured him with Rose.  Sheep's eyes are a dainty dish for little maids, and
we know how largely they indulge in it; but when they are just a bit doubtful of the quality
of the sheep, let the good animal shut his lids forthwith, for a time.  Had she not been a
little unkind to him in the morning?  She had since tried to help him, and that had appeased
her conscience, for in truth he was a good young man.  Those very words she mentally pronounced,
while he was thinking, 'Would she feel it for a friend?'  We dare but guess at the puzzle young
women present now and then, but I should say that Evan was nearer the mark, and that the 'good
young man' was a sop she threw to that within her which wanted quieting, and was thereby passably
quieted.  Perhaps the good young man is offended?  Let us assure him of our disinterested graciousness.

'Is your friend coming?' she asked, and to his reply said, 'I'm glad'; and pitched upon a new
song-one that, by hazard, did not demand his attentions, and he surveyed the company to find
a vacant seat with a neighbour.  Juley Bonner was curled up on the sofa, looking like a damsel
who has lost the third volume of an exciting novel, and is divining the climax.  He chose to
avoid Miss Bonner.  Drummond was leaving the side of the Giorgione lady.  Evan passed leisurely,
and Drummond said 'You know Mrs. Evremonde?  Let me introduce you.'

He was soon in conversation with the glorious-haired dame.

'Excellently done, my brother!' thinks the Countess de Saldar.

Rose sees the matter coolly.  What is it to her?  But she had finished with song.  Jenny takes
her place at the piano; and, as Rose does not care for instrumental music, she naturally talks
and laughs with Drummond, and Jenny does not altogether like it, even though she is not playing
to the ear of William Harvey, for whom billiards have such attractions; but, at the close of
the performance, Rose is quiet enough, and the Countess observes her sitting, alone, pulling
the petals of a flower in her lap, on which her eyes are fixed.  Is the doe wounded?  The damsel
of the disinterested graciousness is assuredly restless.  She starts up and goes out upon the
balcony to breathe the night-air, mayhap regard the moon, and no one follows her.

Had Rose been guiltless of offence, Evan might have left Beckley Court the next day, to cherish
his outraged self-love.  Love of woman is strongly distinguished from pure egoism when it has
got a wound: for it will not go into a corner complaining, it will fight its duel on the field
or die.  Did the young lady know his origin, and scorn him?  He resolved to stay and teach
her that the presumption she had imputed to him was her own mistake.  And from this Evan graduated
naturally enough the finer stages of self-deception downward.

A lover must have his delusions, just as a man must have a skin.  But here was another singular
change in Evan.  After his ale-prompted speech in Fallow field, he was nerved to face the truth
in the eyes of all save Rose.  Now that the truth had enmeshed his beloved, he turned to battle
with it; he was prepared to deny it at any moment; his burnt flesh was as sensitive as the
Countess's.

Let Rose accuse him, and he would say, 'This is true, Miss Jocelyn--what then?' and behold
Rose confused and dumb!  Let not another dare suspect it.  For the fire that had scorched him
was in some sort healing, though horribly painful; but contact with the general air was not
to be endured --was death!  This, I believe, is common in cases of injury by fire. So it befell
that Evan, meeting Rose the next morning was playfully asked by her what choice he had made
between the white and the red; and he, dropping on her the shallow eyes of a conventional smile,
replied, that unable to decide and form a choice, he had thrown both away; at which Miss Jocelyn
gave him a look in the centre of his brows, let her head slightly droop, and walked off.

'She can look serious as well as grimace,' was all that Evan allowed himself to think, and
he strolled out on the lawn with the careless serenity of lovers when they fancy themselves
heart-free.

Rose, whipping the piano in the drawing-room, could see him go to sit by Mrs. Evremonde, till
they were joined by Drummond, when he left her and walked with Harry, and apparently shadowed
the young gentleman's unreflective face; after which Harry was drawn away by the appearance
of that dark star, the Countess de Saldar, whom Rose was beginning to detest.  Jenny glided
by William Harvey's side, far off.  Rose, the young Queen of Friendship, was left deserted
on her music-stool for a throne, and when she ceased to hammer the notes she was insulted by
a voice that cried from below:

'Go on, Rose, it's nice in the sun to hear you,' causing her to close her performances and
the instrument vigorously. 

Most other Christians, however, have dismissed the washing of feet from their religious observance.
The reason given has principally been, that it was an eastern custom, and therefore local.
To this the answer has been, that the passover, from whence the Lord's supper is taken, was an
eastern custom also, but that it was much more local. Travellers of different nations had their
feet washed for them in the east. But none but those of the circumcision were admitted to the passover-supper.
If, therefore, the injunction relative to the washing of feet, be equally
strong with that relative to the celebration of the supper, it has
been presumed, that both ought to have been retained; and, if one has been
dispensed with on account of its locality, that both ought to have
been discarded.

That the washing of feet was enjoined much more emphatically than the supper, we may collect from Barclay,
whose observations upon it I shall transcribe on this occasion.

"But to give a farther evidence, says he, how these consequences have
not any bottom from the practice of that ceremony, nor from the words
following, 'Do this in remembrance of me,' let us consider another
of the like nature, as it is at length expressed by John.

If we regard the narration of this, and the circumstances attending it, it was done with far more
solemnity, and prescribed far more punctually and particularly, than
the former.

It is said only, 'as he was eating he took bread;' so that this would seem to be but an occasional business: but
here 'he rose up, he laid by his garments, he girded himself, he poured
out the water, he washed their feet, he wiped them with a towel.' He
did this to all of them; which are circumstances surely far more observable
than those noted in the other.

The former was a practice common among the Jews, used by all masters of
families, upon that occasion; but this, as to the manner, and person
acting it, to wit, for the master to rise up, and wash the feet of
his servants and disciples, was more singular and observable.

In the breaking of bread and giving of wine, it is not pleaded by our
adversaries, nor yet mentioned in the text, that he particularly
put them into the hands of all; but breaking it, and blessing it,
gave it the nearest, and so they from hand to hand.

But here it is mentioned, that he washed not the feet of one or
two, but of many. He saith not in the former, that if they do not eat
of that bread, and drink of that wine, that they shall be prejudiced by
it; but here he says expressly to Peter, that 'if he wash him not, he
hath no part with him;' which being spoken upon Peter's refusing to let him
wash his feet, would seem to import no less, than not the continuance
only, but even the necessity of this ceremony.  'I can give you a lesson as
well as another, if you want it.'

Presently the two youths were seen bowing in the stiff curt style of those cavaliers who defer
a passage of temper for an appointed settlement.  Harry rushed off to them with a shout, and
they separated; Laxley speaking a word to Drummond, Evan--most judiciously, the Countess thought--joining
his fair sister Caroline, whom the Duke held in converse.

Drummond returned laughing to the side of Mrs. Evremonde, nearing whom, the Countess, while
one ear was being filled by Harry's eulogy of her brother's recent handling of Laxley, and
while her intense gratification at the success of her patient management of her most difficult
subject made her smiles no mask, heard, 'Is it not impossible to suppose such a thing?' A hush
ensued--the Countess passed.

In the afternoon, the Jocelyns, William Harvey, and Drummond met together to consult about
arranging the dispute; and deputations went to Laxley and to Evan.  The former demanded an
apology for certain expressions that day; and an equivalent to an admission that Mr. Harrington
had said, in Fallow field, that he was not a gentleman, in order to escape the consequences.
All the Jocelyns laughed at his tenacity, and 'gentleman' began to be bandied about in ridicule
of the arrogant lean-headed adolescent.  Evan was placable enough, but dogged; he declined
to make any admission, though within himself he admitted that his antagonist was not in the
position of an impostor; which he for one honest word among them would be exposed as being,
and which a simple exercise of resolution to fly the place would save him from being further.

Lady Jocelyn enjoyed the fun, and still more the serious way in which her relatives regarded it.

'This comes of Rose having friends, Emily,' said Mrs. Shorne.

There would have been a dispute to arrange between Lady Jocelyn and Mrs. Shorne, had not her
ladyship been so firmly established in her phlegmatic philosophy.  She said: 'Quelle enfantillage!
I dare say Rose was at the bottom of it: she can settle it best.  Defer the encounter between
the boys until they see they are in the form of donkeys.  They will; and then they'll run on
together, as long as their goddess permits.'

'Indeed, Emily,' said Mrs. Shorne, 'I desire you, by all possible means, to keep the occurrence
secret from Rose.  She ought not to hear of it.'

'No; I dare say she ought not,' returned Lady Jocelyn; 'but I wager you she does.  You can
teach her to pretend not to, if you like.  Ecce signum.'

Her ladyship pointed through the library window at Rose, who was walking with Laxley, and showing
him her pearly teeth in return for one of his jokes: an exchange so manifestly unfair, that
Lady Jocelyn's womanhood, indifferent as she was, could not but feel that Rose had an object
in view; which was true, for she was flattering Laxley into a consent to meet Evan half way.

The ladies murmured and hummed of these proceedings, and of Rose's familiarity with Mr. Harrington;
and the Countess in trepidation took Evan to herself, and spoke to him seriously; a thing she
had not done since her residence in Beckley.  She let him see that he must be on a friendly
footing with everybody in the house, or go which latter alternative Evan told her he had decided
on.  'Yes,' said the Countess, 'and then you give people full warrant to say it was jealousy
drove you hence; and you do but extinguish yourself to implicate dear Rose.  In love, Evan,
when you run away, you don't live to fight another day.'

She was commanded not to speak of love.

'Whatever it may be, my dear,' said the Countess, 'Mr. Laxley has used you ill.  It may be
that you put yourself at his feet'; and his sister looked at him, sighing a great sigh.  She
had, with violence, stayed her mouth concerning what she knew of the Fallow field business,
dreading to alarm his sensitiveness; but she could not avoid giving him a little slap.  It
was only to make him remember by the smart that he must always suffer when he would not be
guided by her.

Evan professed to the Jocelyns that he was willing to apologize to Laxley for certain expressions;
determining to leave the house when he had done it.  The Countess heard and nodded.  The young
men, sounded on both sides, were accordingly lured to the billiard-room, and pushed together:
and when he had succeeded in thrusting the idea of Rose from the dispute, it did seem such
folly to Evan's common sense, that he spoke with pleasant bonhommie about it.  That done, he
entered into his acted part, and towered in his conceit considerably above these aristocratic
boors, who were speechless and graceless, but tigers for their privileges and advantages.

It will not be thought that the Countess intended to permit her brother's departure.  To have
toiled, and yet more, to have lied and fretted her conscience, for nothing, was as little her
principle, as to quit the field of action till she is forcibly driven from it is that of any woman.

'Going, my dear,' she said coolly.  'To-morrow?  Oh! very well.  You are the judge.  And this
creature--the insolvent to the apple-woman, who is coming, whom you would push here--will expose
us, without a soul to guide his conduct, for I shall not remain.  And Carry will not remain.
Carry---!' The Countess gave a semisob.  'Carry must return to her brute--' meaning the gallant
Marine, her possessor.

And the Countess, knowing that Evan loved his sister Caroline, incidentally related to him
an episode in the domestic life of Major and Mrs. Strike.

'Greatly redounding to the credit of the noble martinet for the discipline he upholds,' the
Countess said, smiling at the stunned youth.

'I would advise you to give her time to recover from one bruise,' she added.  'You will do
as it pleases you.'

Evan was sent rushing from the Countess to Caroline, with whom the Countess was content to
leave him.

The young man was daintily managed.  Caroline asked him to stay, as she did not see him often,
and (she brought it in at the close) her home was not very happy.  She did not entreat him,
but looking resigned, her lovely face conjured up the Major to Evan, and he thought, 'Can I
drive her back to her tyrant?'  For so he juggled with himself to have but another day in the
sunshine of Rose.

Andrew, too, threw out genial hints about the Brewery.  Old Tom intended to retire, he said,
and then they would see what they would see!  He silenced every word about Lymport; called
him a brewer already, and made absurd jokes, that were serviceable stuff nevertheless to the
Countess, who deplored to this one and to that the chance existing that Evan might, by the
urgent solicitations of his brother-in-law, give up diplomacy and its honours for a brewery
and lucre!

Of course Evan knew that he was managed.  The memoirs of a managed man have yet to be written;
but if he be sincere he will tell you that he knew it all the time.  He longed for the sugar-plum;
he knew it was naughty to take it: he dared not for fear of the devil, and he shut his eyes
while somebody else popped it into his mouth, and assumed his responsibility.  Being man-driven
or chicaned, is different from being managed.  Being managed implies being led the way this
other person thinks you should go: altogether for your own benefit, mind: you are to see with
her eyes, that you may not disappoint your own appetites: which does not hurt the flesh, certainly;
but does damage the conscience; and from the moment you have once succumbed, that function
ceases to perform its office of moral strainer so well.

After all, was he not happier when he wrote himself tailor, than when he declared himself gentleman?

So he now imagined, till Rose, wishing him 'Good night' on the balcony, and abandoning her
hand with a steady sweet voice and gaze, said: 'How generous of you to forgive my friend, dear
Evan!'  And the ravishing little glimpse of womanly softness in her, set his heart beating.
If he thought at all, it was that he would have sacrificed body and soul for her.

ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

A lover must have his delusions, just as a man must have a skin A woman rises to her husband.
But a man is what he is Abject sense of the lack of a circumference Amiable mirror as being
wilfully ruffled to confuse Because men can't abide praise of another man Brief negatives are
not re-assuring to a lover's uneasy mind But a woman must now and then ingratiate herself Can
you not be told you are perfect without seeking to improve Command of countenance the Countess
possessed Damsel who has lost the third volume of an exciting novel English maids are domesticated
savage animals Every woman that's married isn't in love with her husband Eyes of a lover are
not his own; but his hands and lips are Good nature, and means no more harm than he can help
Graduated naturally enough the finer stages of self-deception Have her profile very frequently
while I am conversing with her He was in love, and subtle love will not be shamed and smothered
I did, replied Evan.  'I told a lie.' Is he jealous?  'Only when I make him, he is.' Make no
effort to amuse him.  He is always occupied Married a wealthy manufacturer--bartered her blood
for his money Notoriously been above the honours of grammar Our comedies are frequently youth's
tragedies Rebukes which give immeasurable rebounds Recalling her to the subject-matter with
all the patience Remarked that the young men must fight it out together Rose was much behind
her age Rose! what have I done?  'Nothing at all,' she said Says you're so clever you ought
to be a man She believed friendship practicable between men and women The Countess dieted the
vanity according to the nationality The letter had a smack of crabbed age hardly counterfeit
Took care to be late, so that all eyes beheld her Tried  to be honest, and was as much so as
his disease permitted Virtuously zealous in an instant on behalf of the lovely dame When you
run away, you don't live to fight another day With good wine to wash it down, one can swallow
anything You do want polish You talk your mother with a vengeance

