THE TURN OF THE SCREW

by Henry James

[The text is take from the first American appearance of this book.]

THE TURN OF THE SCREW

The story had held us, round the fire, sufficiently breathless, but except the obvious remark
that it was gruesome, as, on Christmas Eve in an old house, a strange tale should essentially
be, I remember no comment uttered till somebody happened to say that it was the only case he
had met in which such a visitation had fallen on a child. The case, I may mention, was that
of an apparition in just such an old house as had gathered us for the occasion--an appearance,
of a dreadful kind, to a little boy sleeping in the room with his mother and waking her up
in the terror of it; waking her not to dissipate his dread and soothe him to sleep again, but
to encounter also, herself, before she had succeeded in doing so, the same sight that had shaken
him. Have some more hair on the neck than in the rest of the body when the neck even that is not the length
of a finger. The tail is like fish, and she and the pinions of hands used to go by land: but who
can not afford much, but faced with anyone who undertakes them, and achieve great strength, and
were about to jump others tall, with size being expressed. In many of these lions or seals attributed
the scarcity of fish in this port: for although the network several
times tended sailors, only caught one fish crow, and some anchovies
and squid.

The entrance of the Puerto Deseado is very narrow, and easy to fortify small cost: close terminal
can chain, so in the mouth as in the rest of the canal, which runs east-west to the eastern tip of
the island of Roldan.

The best site for the ships anchors, which would Ancora here, west of the island of penguins,
the shelter of the island of Olivares, and if any one or two ships
can be placed between Bird Island and land.

Although this port is some strong wind gusts, which seeps through the hills, the ships do not
bother, or swell up. The tides run with great impetus to five or six miles per hour, the slide
action. They noted that in the full moon, the tide begins to grow at seven-fifteen. Among the
waxing and waning, it seems it takes 12 and 3 quarters of an hour.
 He
passed his hand over his eyes, made a little wincing grimace. "For dreadful--dreadfulness!"

"Oh, how delicious!" cried one of the women.

He took no notice of her; he looked at me, but as if, instead of me, he saw what he spoke of.
"For general uncanny ugliness and horror and pain."

"Well then," I said, "just sit right down and begin."

He turned round to the fire, gave a kick to a log, watched it an instant. Then as he faced
us again: "I can't begin. I shall have to send to town." There was a unanimous groan at this,
and much reproach; after which, in his preoccupied way, he explained. "The story's written.
It's in a locked drawer--it has not been out for years. I could write to my man and enclose
the key; he could send down the packet as he finds it." It was to me in particular that he
appeared to propound this--appeared almost to appeal for aid not to hesitate. He had broken
a thickness of ice, the formation of many a winter; had had his reasons for a long silence.
The others resented postponement, but it was just his scruples that charmed me. Mon 31, ran with the
same time that it was more terrible than all the past ten in the morning until the wind eased,
and at noon were found at 48 degrees and 47 minutes of latitude. In
the afternoon, when permitted by wind, which was short and varied,
sailed west to take again the coast, the storm had made them lose
sight.

By this time they made his second ninth Patron Saint Francis Xavier,
and the end of it, and eve and day of the Purification, there were many
confessions and communions. The day February 1, sailed west, but the
North made them aware many miles downwind to the south, then recognized
the land, at 9 am were found 5 minutes at 49 degrees latitude, and
spent the day tacking, unable to take or even recognize the Rio de
San Julian.

Night anchored at three leagues from the coast. Wednesday 2, the wind is at a short distance south
of the coast, from 48 to 49 degrees has some pitfalls, at two and three leagues on the continent,
and some of them seem islets without it cove, where can give some background to the temporary
shelter. Thursday 3, also failed to discover the river, and at noon were found at 48 degrees right
mind at the sight of the coast. The same thing occurred on Friday 4 and Saturday 5, were found at 48
degrees, 24 minutes latitude, six leagues of land. At 3 pm east-west were the stumbling blocks
placed by the P. La-Feuillée in 48 degrees and 17 minutes of latitude. The obstacle that comes
over the sea, it resembles the hull of a ship, far from land and five leagues in the same latitude,
to a league and a half of land, are another four or five pitfalls that come as a reef of rocks , and all
watch over the water. All this coast is arid land high and low: only show themselves at intervals
some hillocks that do not rise much. Sunday 6, there were too removed from the earth at 48
degrees 34 minutes and the coast from this point at 49 degrees 17 minutes, makes the figure
of two large bays, and are at the ends to the south-west by south.
The land, which mediates between those heights, it is usually high,
although some parties playazo.

As the sun felt very warm atmosphere, something extraordinary on
these shores: they anchored with a kedge south-west quarter south
of a hill, the highest of the coast, distant six leagues.

Monday, 7, half day were at 48 degrees, 48 minutes east-north-east of the highest mountain,
which is one of the last high ground. At 6 pm they cast anchor about two leagues of a bay, it seems
from the outside a short creek, which is east of the high hill in 15 fathoms, the bottom mud
was very sticky and strong. Tuesday 8 to 5 in the morning, went D. Diego Varela boat to acknowledge
the bay, thinking there to find the entrance to the Rio de San Julian,
but arriving at the mouth of the bay, the tide began to fall with
great force, while the wind freshened from the west too, for which
could not get close to the ground, and was very very nearly wrecked
the boat, which came at once something of a pipe by water: by which
they returned to the ship at three in the afternoon.

At the mouth or entrance of the bay, on the northern side, they found fourteen
fathom deep, black mud and good thing to anchor: on the south side,
at the entrance there are five, six and seven fathoms of the very
quality in the background.

All input is pure only in the southern tip of the two cliffs to watch
in mid-tide, at high tide seems to be covered, and at low tide this
point is a pleasure.

Wednesday, 9, day of the Purification of Our Lady, whose sponsorship
implored, wanted the Mother of mercy, which calmed the strong west at
9 am, shortly after a slow north from entering the first inlet of the
bay, they met then be St. Julian, and favored the wind, entered into
a league. At two o'clock, taking very strong current of the tide
coming down, I said to give a kedge background. In the meantime they
stopped the flow of the tide, landed, some, and D. noting Diego Varela
and Father Joseph de Quiroga, the twists and casualties to the river,
they returned on board at 4 pm.

On land they found some bushes burned shortly before. At 6 pm went deeper, to put the ship defended
from all winds, and they tied two anchors. Having given depth at
high tide in nine fathoms, then remained in only three fathoms, although
the substance is good white clay.

Thursday, 10, left the Father Matias Strobl and D. Ensign Salvador
Martinez, with some soldiers, to see if Indians were on the ground: and
the Padres Cardiel and Quiroga, and the chief pilot came on the boat
Varela warned of food to probe the bay to the river of Campana, who
put some maps, or if I entered another river, with no intention of
giving up the company to find out everything.

They found that the ships can go up a league and half of the first mouth
that the largest background is from an island in low tide that is
missing little to cover, and some ducks in it and innumerable gulls.
Everything else, who is on the south side and west, at high tide, it
seems a gulf all full of water, but at low tide is all dry: and well,
having sailed about three miles until noon, and down at this time
the tide, remained dry.

Then he ascended, continued towards a white cliffs, which were seen
to the south-west, and three quarters of a league before to reach
them, and at the place where high tide the water came, the tide went
down again, and stayed dry.

Descalzáronse the pilot and the Father Varela Cardiel, and mud and
small pools left by the tide, they reached the coast . They walked
towards either side, and acknowledged that there was just the bay,
and there Phoenicia the great and fabulous river of San Julian, the
great lake and the river of Campana, much talked about and praised
in the maps, especially foreigners, being sick so amazed that such
tales have confidence, and print without fear of being caught in a
lie.

On top of those cliffs or slopes found Father Cardiel amount of plaster
of glasses, plates in the manner of talc wide .

They returned to the boat barefoot, where they slept until half past two
on Friday, 11.

At dawn they were paying for the rest of the bay: at eight down the boat, unable to remove
it until half past two o'clock, that the tide rose and surrounded
the entire bay, returned to the ship, and all she found fresh water
or firewood, but as is juniper and hawthorn scrub.

Father Matias Strobl came back saying, that by which they had gone, the land
was similar to that of Puerto Deseado, he found on the shore of the bay
wells with a depth rod, some brackish water, but that one could drink,
Handmade: mused that the English would make the squad of George Anson,
1741, and also found at a distance of half a league from the bay, a lake,
whose surface was Quajar of salt.

Sailors tended the net, and caught good numbers of big fish, good taste,
similar to bacallao, although some said was pejepalo. Saturday 12,
are sick Father Quiroga in the ship, left the two pilots to mark the
site of saline, and collected them on board in the evening, leaving
two soldiers on the ground, to withdraw too.

Sunday 13, recognizing in such bad disposition that port them to
stay Parent Cardiel Strobl and the lieutenant and soldiers, and being
equally barren all along this coast so far registered, Quiroga Father
wanted to know the views of the other two missionaries the captain
of the ship, and the lieutenant who commanded the troops, and all
unanimously felt there not to establish population, not to be in the
proximity of the bay, fresh water, no land for farming: what is more
because of the missing timber, firewood and even to burn, which is
the most necessary thing in this land frigidísima: but for the most
inquest found that the Father Matias Strobl come out with the lieutenant
and eight soldiers, on the one hand, carrying food for three or four
days, and go about registering inland the earth, and Father José Cardiel
also sits well with ten men.

They returned the two soldiers who had remained on shore the night
before, and said they found fresh water in a lake, distant four leagues
from the bay, and guanacos and ostriches, but no trees were seen as the
eye could see.

Monday 14 , came in the form that the Father Strobl through the eastern
part, and the Father Cardiel by the West, and that to walk south,
about six miles, found a loophole that bojearia a league, all studded
with salt, far from the sea three quarters of a league, and as much
of the end of the bay.

The soldiers lit the bushes as they found, and the fire ran two leagues. The land was the same
as in the preceding journey. The people, who with the Father Cardiel went towards the west,
also hit the grass fire in the fields, and climbed up to very high fire. He said Father Cardiel night
about six miles west of the bay, where they found fresh water. On
the morning of Tuesday 15, after praying, and have all given to God,
continued their journey, and at the distance of a league of sleep,
they found a house, on one hand was six flags of cloth of various
colors, half a yard square, on tall posts driven into soil, and on
the other five dead horses, straw sausages, with clines and tail stuck
on three sticks each jurisdiction in height.

Entering the house, they found two lines ponchos and cabando found three dead, who still had
flesh and hair. The male seemed one and the other wives: the hair of one of these had a brass
plate of half a quarter long and two inches wide, and ears, earrings of the same. At the top of
the house was another upset poncho and tied with a strip of colored wool, and she came a long
stick as a weathervane, for eight long tassels hanging Amusco wool. According to these signs, the
dead were from the nation Puelche. They went forward in search of those who had made that funeral,
believing then give them, and together with habitable land, but, but walked three leagues,
they found no trace and they ran out of supplies. They wanted the soldiers to hunt ducks in
the ponds that were, and being with bullet did not kill anything. Cardiel Father dispatched two
soldiers to the ship with a paper to the Father Superior Matias Strobl, and the captain, giving
relationship of everything found, and asking them to thirty men with provisions and ammunition for
them, and those with him, which could last up to four days later. This same day 15 left in
the boat driver D. Father Varela and Diego Quiroga to probe the channel
entry, and mark all the banks that are in your mouth: but the mighty
wind were obliged to disembark in a small cove where the sailors casting
a net, they drew full large fish, all of a species, which seem trout
from seven to eight pounds. found in that part of the coast good wood
to burn, and in good proportion, so that it can provide the ships
that enter.

In the afternoon became the Father Matias and his entourage, saying that found in the lagoon,
the salt would have more than a yard tall, white as snow, and hard as stone, but had not found
any sign of Indians inhabiting this land. On Wednesday 16, but blew strongly the south-west, nothing
bothered the ship, being well defended, and winds up not being able to surf. the two soldiers came
to the letter of Father Cardiel, whose appeal to the Father condescended Strobl, who on Thursday
17 at sunrise, jumped ashore with the lieutenant and soldiers, to join with Father Cardiel,
while Father Quiroga, the ship's captain and first mate were on the boat at probe what they lacked in
the bay, and jumping on the ground, rose to a rather high hill, which is north of the bay. Found
towards the northern part of a large lake which extended three miles to the west, and almost
as north, without any communication with the sea, but could not tell if this was a freshwater
lake. Father Matias walked four leagues its people, and knowing that he approached the Father Cardiel,
sent him to say that they came to where his bow was. He did the Father Cardiel with great work,
"said Father Matias, than that its people so much fatigued load , and that, having thought better
at the point, he seemed to be daring move to get between barbarians known, and on horseback.
He gave him many reasons to the contrary, with its intrepid and courageous
spirit Father Cardiel, putting forward the value and experience of
these people, the supplies they had rifles, gunpowder and bullets,
the cowardice of every Indian, as is resistance, and finally, the
cause of God as they carried on their side, which was the conversion
of the gentiles. replied Father Matias, who entrusted to God, and
would respond in the morning the resolution was that they should return
to the ship.

Obeying the Father Cardiel soon, but with the feeling of retreat
undiscovered Indians imagined walking distance, as I had already
seen a white dog barked, and was retreating to where I thought I had
to find the Indians. The cause was then Father Matias carry little food
was prevented.

Saturday 19th, again proposed the Father Cardiel would rather find out where the Indians had
their room and asked the Father Superior Strobl, who consulted with the captain of the ship,
with the lieutenant, with the sergeant with the Father Quiroga, according to the instruction that
had given such cases the Father Provincial. Made the consultation was that of appearing to
run again the Father Cardiel field with the soldiers, who voluntarily wished to accompany him. The soldiers
said the captain of the ship many sailors, who willingly offered, and a marine soldier, each carrying
food for eight days, and good prevention of ammunition. Sunday 20, which was the new moon, having
seen the Father Quiroga and pilots with particular care when full and the tide, they found that
the tide was at five o'clock in the morning, and thoroughly equipped at 11 a day. This is very necessary
to know those who have entered in this port, because there are no less than six fathoms perpendicular
difference, so that at the flood, a ship can enter online by banks, which are uncovered at low
tide. At dawn that day, after saying Mass, jumped ashore Father Cardiel with the escort of
soldiers and sailors, who were all 34, and took the road to the west. The order was watching
this. In the morning, prayed some prayers, and the act of contrition and a prayer in which they
thanked God for common benefits, and offered him work and work that day, stating the hunger, thirst,
fatigue, dangers, & c., and protesting that they did for their love and for the conversion
of infidels. Then had lunch, and marched singing the Litany of the Virgin, and after she prayed
the Father Cardiel clerical itinerary. At night they prayed the rosary and sang the Salve:
and for morning and evening prayer, and to load the bags and walk,
to the Father signal with a bell that served as a drum.

Walked in this way four days of 6 to 7 miles every day, almost always on a path of Indians, one foot wide,
which was full of horse manure and foals, and old, and very good springs. At the end of the four days
were diverted from the path to a high hill, whence looking with a spyglass, they discovered the land
of quality than others. They walked in these four days, a matter of 25 leagues without finding any
tree or grass, but some hay in the spring green, or loam soil to
plant but sterile all: water itself, and in abundance in several springs,
where was the way or path of the Indians, and where there was none,
all freshwater lakes. No one saw smoke, there were no farm animals,
but a few guanacos who fled half a league, and as is ostrich, which
killed one, being sterile game all season and slopes: even birds were
heard but is this or that.

Hubiéronse then fed back disconsolate. People behaved with great consistency, although some were
already a few days after bare, some with blisters on their feet,
and others with wounds, and the sixth day but was not working.

Father Cardiel a few days after he suffered many pains in the joints
of the legs, so that the fifth could not walk without crutches, and
finding no other remedy, which put them cloths soaked in urine: this
alone and fatherly providence God could proceed.

 Is he too so very remarkable?"

One wouldn't flatter a child. "Oh, miss, MOST remarkable. If you think well of this one!"--and
she stood there with a plate in her hand, beaming at our companion, who looked from one of
us to the other with placid heavenly eyes that contained nothing to check us.

"Yes; if I do--?"

"You WILL be carried away by the little gentleman!"

"Well, that, I think, is what I came for--to be carried away. I'm afraid, however," I remember
feeling the impulse to add, "I'm rather easily carried away. I was carried away in London!"

I can still see Mrs. Grose's broad face as she took this in. "In Harley Street?"

"In Harley Street."

"Well, miss, you're not the first--and you won't be the last."

"Oh, I've no pretension," I could laugh, "to being the only one. My other pupil, at any rate,
as I understand, comes back tomorrow?"

"Not tomorrow--Friday, miss. He arrives, as you did, by the coach, under care of the guard,
and is to be met by the same carriage."

I forthwith expressed that the proper as well as the pleasant and friendly thing would be therefore
that on the arrival of the public conveyance I should be in waiting for him with his little
sister; an idea in which Mrs. Grose concurred so heartily that I somehow took her manner as
a kind of comforting pledge--never falsified, thank heaven!--that we should on every question
be quite at one. Oh, she was glad I was there!

What I felt the next day was, I suppose, nothing that could be fairly called a reaction from
the cheer of my arrival; it was probably at the most only a slight oppression produced by a
fuller measure of the scale, as I walked round them, gazed up at them, took them in, of my
new circumstances. They had, as it were, an extent and mass for which I had not been prepared
and in the presence of which I found myself, freshly, a little scared as well as a little proud.
Lessons, in this agitation, certainly suffered some delay; I reflected that my first duty was,
by the gentlest arts I could contrive, to win the child into the sense of knowing me. I spent
the day with her out-of-doors; I arranged with her, to her great satisfaction, that it should
be she, she only, who might show me the place. She showed it step by step and room by room
and secret by secret, with droll, delightful, childish talk about it and with the result, in
half an hour, of our becoming immense friends. Young as she was, I was struck, throughout our
little tour, with her confidence and courage with the way, in empty chambers and dull corridors,
on crooked staircases that made me pause and even on the summit of an old machicolated square
tower that made me dizzy, her morning music, her disposition to tell me so many more things
than she asked, rang out and led me on. I have not seen Bly since the day I left it, and I
daresay that to my older and more informed eyes it would now appear sufficiently contracted.
But as my little conductress, with her hair of gold and her frock of blue, danced before me
round corners and pattered down passages, I had the view of a castle of romance inhabited by
a rosy sprite, such a place as would somehow, for diversion of the young idea, take all color
out of storybooks and fairytales. Wasn't it just a storybook over which I had fallen adoze
and adream? No; it was a big, ugly, antique, but convenient house, embodying a few features
of a building still older, half-replaced and half-utilized, in which I had the fancy of our
being almost as lost as a handful of passengers in a great drifting ship. Well, I was, strangely,
at the helm!

II

This came home to me when, two days later, I drove over with Flora to meet, as Mrs. Grose said,
the little gentleman; and all the more for an incident that, presenting itself the second evening,
had deeply disconcerted me. The first day had been, on the whole, as I have expressed, reassuring;
but I was to see it wind up in keen apprehension. The postbag, that evening--it came late--contained
a letter for me, which, however, in the hand of my employer, I found to be composed but of
a few words enclosing another, addressed to himself, with a seal still unbroken. "This, I recognize,
is from the headmaster, and the headmaster's an awful bore. Read him, please; deal with him;
but mind you don't report. Not a word. I'm off!" I broke the seal with a great effort--so great
a one that I was a long time coming to it; took the unopened missive at last up to my room
and only attacked it just before going to bed. I had better have let it wait till morning,
for it gave me a second sleepless night. With no counsel to take, the next day, I was full
of distress; and it finally got so the better of me that I determined to open myself at least
to Mrs. Grose.

"What does it mean? The child's dismissed his school."

She gave me a look that I remarked at the moment; then, visibly, with a quick blankness, seemed
to try to take it back. "But aren't they all--?"

"Sent home--yes. But only for the holidays. Miles may never go back at all."

Consciously, under my attention, she reddened. "They won't take him?"

"They absolutely decline."

At this she raised her eyes, which she had turned from me; I saw them fill with good tears.
"What has he done?"

I hesitated; then I judged best simply to hand her my letter--which, however, had the effect
of making her, without taking it, simply put her hands behind her. She shook her head sadly.
"Such things are not for me, miss."

My counselor couldn't read! I winced at my mistake, which I attenuated as I could, and opened
my letter again to repeat it to her; then, faltering in the act and folding it up once more,
I put it back in my pocket. "Is he really BAD?"

The tears were still in her eyes. "Do the gentlemen say so?"

"They go into no particulars. They simply express their regret that it should be impossible
to keep him. That can have only one meaning." Mrs. Grose listened with dumb emotion; she forbore
to ask me what this meaning might be; so that, presently, to put the thing with some coherence
and with the mere aid of her presence to my own mind, I went on: "That he's an injury to the
others."

At this, with one of the quick turns of simple folk, she suddenly flamed up. "Master Miles!
HIM an injury?"

There was such a flood of good faith in it that, though I had not yet seen the child, my very
fears made me jump to the absurdity of the idea. I found myself, to meet my friend the better,
offering it, on the spot, sarcastically. "To his poor little innocent mates!"

"It's too dreadful," cried Mrs. Grose, "to say such cruel things! Why, he's scarce ten years old."

"Yes, yes; it would be incredible."

She was evidently grateful for such a profession. "See him, miss, first. THEN believe it!"
I felt forthwith a new impatience to see him; it was the beginning of a curiosity that, for
all the next hours, was to deepen almost to pain. Mrs. Grose was aware, I could judge, of what
she had produced in me, and she followed it up with assurance. "You might as well believe it
of the little lady. Bless her," she added the next moment--"LOOK at her!"

I turned and saw that Flora, whom, ten minutes before, I had established in the schoolroom
with a sheet of white paper, a pencil, and a copy of nice "round o's," now presented herself
to view at the open door. She expressed in her little way an extraordinary detachment from
disagreeable duties, looking to me, however, with a great childish light that seemed to offer
it as a mere result of the affection she had conceived for my person, which had rendered necessary
that she should follow me. I needed nothing more than this to feel the full force of Mrs. Grose's
comparison, and, catching my pupil in my arms, covered her with kisses in which there was a
sob of atonement.

Nonetheless, the rest of the day I watched for further occasion to approach my colleague, especially
as, toward evening, I began to fancy she rather sought to avoid me. I overtook her, I remember,
on the staircase; we went down together, and at the bottom I detained her, holding her there
with a hand on her arm. "I take what you said to me at noon as a declaration that YOU'VE never
known him to be bad."

She threw back her head; she had clearly, by this time, and very honestly, adopted an attitude.
"Oh, never known him--I don't pretend THAT!"

I was upset again. "Then you HAVE known him--?"

"Yes indeed, miss, thank God!"

On reflection I accepted this. "You mean that a boy who never is--?"

"Is no boy for ME!"

I held her tighter. "You like them with the spirit to be naughty?" Then, keeping pace with
her answer, "So do I!" I eagerly brought out. "But not to the degree to contaminate--"

"To contaminate?"--my big word left her at a loss. I explained it. "To corrupt."

She stared, taking my meaning in; but it produced in her an odd laugh. "Are you afraid he'll
corrupt YOU?" She put the question with such a fine bold humor that, with a laugh, a little
silly doubtless, to match her own, I gave way for the time to the apprehension of ridicule.

But the next day, as the hour for my drive approached, I cropped up in another place. "What
was the lady who was here before?"

"The last governess? She was also young and pretty--almost as young and almost as pretty, miss,
even as you."

"Ah, then, I hope her youth and her beauty helped her!" I recollect throwing off. "He seems
to like us young and pretty!"

"Oh, he DID," Mrs. Grose assented: "it was the way he liked everyone!" She had no sooner spoken
indeed than she caught herself up. "I mean that's HIS way--the master's."

I was struck. "But of whom did you speak first?"

She looked blank, but she colored. "Why, of HIM."

"Of the master?"

"Of who else?"

There was so obviously no one else that the next moment I had lost my impression of her having
accidentally said more than she meant; and I merely asked what I wanted to know. "Did SHE see
anything in the boy--?"

"That wasn't right? She never told me."

I had a scruple, but I overcame it. "Was she careful--particular?"

Mrs. Grose appeared to try to be conscientious. "About some things--yes."

"But not about all?"

Again she considered. "Well, miss--she's gone. I won't tell tales."

"I quite understand your feeling," I hastened to reply; but I thought it, after an instant,
not opposed to this concession to pursue: "Did she die here?"

"No--she went off."

I don't know what there was in this brevity of Mrs. Grose's that struck me as ambiguous. "Went
off to die?" Mrs. Grose looked straight out of the window, but I felt that, hypothetically,
I had a right to know what young persons engaged for Bly were expected to do. "She was taken
ill, you mean, and went home?"

"She was not taken ill, so far as appeared, in this house. She left it, at the end of the year,
to go home, as she said, for a short holiday, to which the time she had put in had certainly
given her a right. We had then a young woman--a nursemaid who had stayed on and who was a good
girl and clever; and SHE took the children altogether for the interval. But our young lady
never came back, and at the very moment I was expecting her I heard from the master that she
was dead."

I turned this over. "But of what?"

"He never told me! But please, miss," said Mrs. Grose, "I must get to my work."

III

Her thus turning her back on me was fortunately not, for my just preoccupations, a snub that
could check the growth of our mutual esteem. We met, after I had brought home little Miles,
more intimately than ever on the ground of my stupefaction, my general emotion: so monstrous
was I then ready to pronounce it that such a child as had now been revealed to me should be
under an interdict. I was a little late on the scene, and I felt, as he stood wistfully looking
out for me before the door of the inn at which the coach had put him down, that I had seen
him, on the instant, without and within, in the great glow of freshness, the same positive
fragrance of purity, in which I had, from the first moment, seen his little sister. He was
incredibly beautiful, and Mrs. Grose had put her finger on it: everything but a sort of passion
of tenderness for him was swept away by his presence. What I then and there took him to my
heart for was something divine that I have never found to the same degree in any child--his
indescribable little air of knowing nothing in the world but love. It would have been impossible
to carry a bad name with a greater sweetness of innocence, and by the time I had got back to
Bly with him I remained merely bewildered--so far, that is, as I was not outraged--by the sense
of the horrible letter locked up in my room, in a drawer. As soon as I could compass a private
word with Mrs. Grose I declared to her that it was grotesque.

She promptly understood me. "You mean the cruel charge--?"

"It doesn't live an instant. My dear woman, LOOK at him!"

She smiled at my pretention to have discovered his charm. "I assure you, miss, I do nothing
else! What will you say, then?" she immediately added.

"In answer to the letter?" I had made up my mind. "Nothing."

"And to his uncle?"

I was incisive. "Nothing."

"And to the boy himself?"

I was wonderful. "Nothing."

She gave with her apron a great wipe to her mouth. "Then I'll stand by you. We'll see it out."

"We'll see it out!" I ardently echoed, giving her my hand to make it a vow.

She held me there a moment, then whisked up her apron again with her detached hand. "Would
you mind, miss, if I used the freedom--"

"To kiss me? No!" I took the good creature in my arms and, after we had embraced like sisters,
felt still more fortified and indignant.

This, at all events, was for the time: a time so full that, as I recall the way it went, it
reminds me of all the art I now need to make it a little distinct. What I look back at with
amazement is the situation I accepted. I had undertaken, with my companion, to see it out,
and I was under a charm, apparently, that could smooth away the extent and the far and difficult
connections of such an effort. I was lifted aloft on a great wave of infatuation and pity.
I found it simple, in my ignorance, my confusion, and perhaps my conceit, to assume that I
could deal with a boy whose education for the world was all on the point of beginning. I am
unable even to remember at this day what proposal I framed for the end of his holidays and
the resumption of his studies. Lessons with me, indeed, that charming summer, we all had a
theory that he was to have; but I now feel that, for weeks, the lessons must have been rather
my own. I learned something--at first, certainly--that had not been one of the teachings of
my small, smothered life; learned to be amused, and even amusing, and not to think for the
morrow. It was the first time, in a manner, that I had known space and air and freedom, all
the music of summer and all the mystery of nature. And then there was consideration--and consideration
was sweet. Oh, it was a trap--not designed, but deep--to my imagination, to my delicacy, perhaps
to my vanity; to whatever, in me, was most excitable. The best way to picture it all is to
say that I was off my guard. They gave me so little trouble--they were of a gentleness so extraordinary.
I used to speculate--but even this with a dim disconnectedness--as to how the rough future
(for all futures are rough!) would handle them and might bruise them. They had the bloom of
health and happiness; and yet, as if I had been in charge of a pair of little grandees, of
princes of the blood, for whom everything, to be right, would have to be enclosed and protected,
the only form that, in my fancy, the afteryears could take for them was that of a romantic,
a really royal extension of the garden and the park. It may be, of course, above all, that
what suddenly broke into this gives the previous time a charm of stillness--that hush in which
something gathers or crouches. The change was actually like the spring of a beast.

In the first weeks the days were long; they often, at their finest, gave me what I used to
call my own hour, the hour when, for my pupils, teatime and bedtime having come and gone, I
had, before my final retirement, a small interval alone. Much as I liked my companions, this
hour was the thing in the day I liked most; and I liked it best of all when, as the light faded--or
rather, I should say, the day lingered and the last calls of the last birds sounded, in a flushed
sky, from the old trees--I could take a turn into the grounds and enjoy, almost with a sense
of property that amused and flattered me, the beauty and dignity of the place. It was a pleasure
at these moments to feel myself tranquil and justified; doubtless, perhaps, also to reflect
that by my discretion, my quiet good sense and general high propriety, I was giving pleasure--if
he ever thought of it!--to the person to whose pressure I had responded. What I was doing was
what he had earnestly hoped and directly asked of me, and that I COULD, after all, do it proved
even a greater joy than I had expected. I daresay I fancied myself, in short, a remarkable
young woman and took comfort in the faith that this would more publicly appear. Well, I needed
to be remarkable to offer a front to the remarkable things that presently gave their first sign.

It was plump, one afternoon, in the middle of my very hour: the children were tucked away,
and I had come out for my stroll. One of the thoughts that, as I don't in the least shrink
now from noting, used to be with me in these wanderings was that it would be as charming as
a charming story suddenly to meet someone. Someone would appear there at the turn of a path
and would stand before me and smile and approve. I didn't ask more than that--I only asked
that he should KNOW; and the only way to be sure he knew would be to see it, and the kind light
of it, in his handsome face. That was exactly present to me--by which I mean the face was--when,
on the first of these occasions, at the end of a long June day, I stopped short on emerging
from one of the plantations and coming into view of the house. What arrested me on the spot--and
with a shock much greater than any vision had allowed for--was the sense that my imagination
had, in a flash, turned real. He did stand there!--but high up, beyond the lawn and at the
very top of the tower to which, on that first morning, little Flora had conducted me. This
tower was one of a pair--square, incongruous, crenelated structures--that were distinguished,
for some reason, though I could see little difference, as the new and the old. They flanked
opposite ends of the house and were probably architectural absurdities, redeemed in a measure
indeed by not being wholly disengaged nor of a height too pretentious, dating, in their gingerbread
antiquity, from a romantic revival that was already a respectable past. In the eight days it took
the Father Cardiel in this expedition, observed Father Quiroga astronomical dial with a latitude of
this bay of San Julian: and in keeping with these observations, the first entry of the bay
is 49 degrees, and 12 minutes: the average 49 degrees and 15 minutes.
On Tuesday 22, at 4 am, boarded the boat the Father Mathias Strobl,
Father Joseph Quiroga, the pilot D. Diego Varela and D. Ensign Salvador
Martinez Olmo, and went out to the first inlet of the bay, and jumping
ashore, walked north to recognize the lagoon, which had discovered
the preceding days.

Three quarters of a league found at the top, among some hills, another freshwater lake, which has
a league circuit. Later, two leagues from the bay, where they landed this day, they found the
large lake, but all covered with salt: it has three leagues long, and over a wide. Passed to
the other side to see if it were some trees, bushes and found nothing but, only have wood to
burn. In this crossing of the lagoon are very hot sun and its reflection in the snow-white salt
were offended by the sight. They found seven or eight vicuna, and guanaco, and to the south side
of the pond, a freshwater well. For the band of the east of this lake is a great plain, and then
there's the sea a league away. At 4 pm on this day were already on board. What we all came to
the conclusion, recognized this land of the bay of San Julian, and his bad qualities, is that
there can not inhabit the Indians for want of fuel, honey, hunting, & a. but they live far
away, and pass, that the narrow path that followed the Father Cardiel four days is either the
Auracanos de Chile, or of the Puelches and Peguenches, which will come as it once salt, to
be free in your country , to the great lake, or to the other of the
proximity of the bay, and this year some would die there, chief among
them, for whose funeral would kill two of his wives and horses, they
hiciesen company in the afterlife, he believes his blindness, and
for the same reason he buried with all their trinkets.

Awed it were, that on such a distance from Buenos Aires, had Indians on horseback, because it is believed
that from 150 miles down, they are all footmen , we are told the highland Indians, and the paths
of strangers. It appears by their brass trinkets, & c., they have communication with other nations,
they have it in Spanish. Finally, on Monday, February 28, began to prepare things out of the
bay of San Julian, where finding no comfort to make this as any establishment, made by Father Matthias
Strobl Superior consultation, which entered the Captain of the ship, the lieutenant, the sergeant,
the Padres Cardiel and Quiroga, present the clerk of the ship, and
all were unanimous Apparently, that this was not suitable to stay there
the Fathers, for in addition to lacking the necessary things for
a settlement, had not Indians, whose conversion was used.

So at 9 am began to be levied, but having changed at the same hour the wind to south-west, remained
in the same place. At two p.m. blew with great force the south-west, although in this bay does
not raise sea, made such force that the ship Garró some fathoms, and it was necessary to round
up the antennas and prevent another anchor.

The sailors, who had gone ashore today on the boat, they found a sign in the field with these characters:
IO HN. WOOD, which is the name of some English or Dutchman who has been in this bay. Tuesday
to March 1, having the wind on the south-east, could not leave in the morning, and placed on a high,
opposite the site where they were anchors, a high wooden cross with this inscription: - Queen Felipe
V, the year of 1746. At 4 pm, blowing west, we weighed and left the bay of San Julian, at 5 and then
they were out, lifted the boat on board, and followed their defeat to the north-east. With that
parting be well here to give more complete account of this harbor and bay. Of her many things are the
travelers foreigners, especially George Anson, Commander of the British fleet, the year of 1741 came
to infest the South Sea, through the Straits of Lemaire. Among other things, put some of its paper
maps, which is famous bay as a great river, which originates from a large lake, 40 or 50 miles inland,
and that this gap arises another river, called the Bell, which runs out into the South Sea.
For all that he wants the Royal Council of the Indies that was done
here a population, and to that end undertook this journey: but experience
has disillusioned, they said that all those rivers foreigners is just
a pure lie, as such River is not, nor signs of having ever been, that
finally the adage is true Castilian, which, to distant lands, Luengo
lies.

All this bay situated at 49 degrees, minutes, more or less, and they're
right: because as I said, we have seen now is at 49 degrees and 12 minutes
his entry, and the environment, where ships can come in 49 degrees and 15 minutes.
Respective length, told of the island of Lobos is 15 degrees and
20 minutes and universal length, told Teibez peak of Tenerife, are
311 degrees, and 40 minutes.

Not only: does not come into this bay one big river can be navigated
many miles up, as in his diaries and letters written without foundation some
foreigners, but even a small stream could find our Spanish.

The entrance of this port is difficult to know does not lead to more
signal that the height, because from the outside is only the first
inlet, almost all full of shoals, but will be easy to know that entry,
governed by the following address.

Near the west of the mouth of the harbor is a very high hill, which going from the north-east,
it looks from afar, as the higher you go away on this coast, and from afar looks like an island,
and toward something else, are the tips of three hills, which also look like islands, closer to
that are seen to land. Then what was in demand at the port of San Julian from Kings Island, depart
from the land, because the coast is dangerous and full of low, and reaching 49 degrees, take
the hill aforesaid view more high, and will sail closer to the earth from east to west with him,
and you will see the first inlet, which is to the north side of the barriers around white, and
all land that is at the south side to the river of Santa Cruz is low, and also seems to make
a white barrier, like a wall. The harbor entrance is very difficult, and can not get ships at
low tide, it is only a narrow channel with two fathoms and a half, or three fathoms deep
which runs south-west to a point in which there are some rocks, and from there by running further
south near the coast, which is left to the west. At high tide, vessels can enter any size,
because, as noted, the tide rises and falls six fathoms perpendicular, and makes a very different
appearance of the entrance and the harbor, as seen in two planes made by Father Quiroga. However,
it is always necessary for the ship, do not bring practical pilot of this port, bottom out, and
send the boat to acknowledge the entry: As I have said, it is difficult,
and always will be good to go when the tide goes losing power, enough
to fund Ancora before low tide.

The large ships can enter up to get behind the islands, where at low tide are 13 and 14 fathoms.
The fund is good, black mud, mixed with very fine grit. Winds here
are blowing strongly but not rising tide, being around the port covered
with soil.

There is within two islands, which are worth at the flood, and in them many seagulls. A high
tide are discovered other islands, and finally runs dry low tide, at the South, an area that resembled a
large bay tide. This port does not have the summer to wash the vessels, as some gaps springs
, which are west of the port, three or four miles distant, and another nearest lake, which is
north-west of the entrance, a league distant from the sea, and it is quite difficult to find between
two hills near the top . In the wintertime it is possible that some streams of water down that drop
down the snow. All the land is salty and barren, but they are few bushes west of the entrance,
which can be used for fuel for the ships: there is no pasture for cattle, but is inland, which is
some little in the ravines, where There springs, nor is it a single
tree that demonstrates wood. fortifying the port terminal can easily
building a battery on the point of rocks, which is south-west of the
first entry in the north coast, because here are close entry, and
passes the channel musket range of the point: neither can the ships
beat the fortress built on this site, because lowering the tide, they
would run aground because the entire bay, off the tip stays in tide
with a little water, and even in the narrow channel only reaches three
fathoms.

Piedra is not lacking, and almost all ostriones appears to be turned into stone, which can be good lime.
Also south of the port is in the mountains to cast glasses. There are plenty of fish this port,
similar to bacallao: there are sea birds such as gulls, pájaroniño, ducks, & c., and on land are ostriches,
guanacos, vicuna, armadillos and skunks. The climate is dry, and winter it is very cold. There are
four or five salt ponds, but the nearest one is far from the sea about a league .-- Within 21 days
because of measures to ascertain the above, our sailors out of this bay of San Julian to March
1 in demand coming from the Camarones river, always near the coast. They
came not see anything special until Thursday March 10 were up much
sea in the height of an inlet, which is south of Cabo da las Matas, 45
degrees latitude. Out in front of the two islands, the largest one league
on the continent, and the youngest, who is very low, far from land,
4 leagues, and are each other south-east north-west.

There are four other islands, the largest one at the southern tip, and three small within
the bay of the same place, which should not be the name of the Matas, because the land is barren
and without any you kill some. The waters are here with great force to the south and north, following
the order of the tides, and ground out is fairly high, with a few hillocks. Between two points
after Matas this is a cove, which came on Friday 11 to register, giving back in it in 30 fathoms
black sand, a league and a half or two miles of the earth.

A half day ashore Father Quiroga, Chief Pilot, and the lieutenant D. Salvador Martin del Olmo, and
acknowledged that in the interior of this bay that form the tips of the cape, there is a good bay,
with great depth to near earth so that within rifle range are 7 or 8 fathoms sand and gravel bottom
at low tide. They called bay of San Gregorio, and is sheltered from all winds, with the exception of
the north-east, east, here are usually not malignant. They got the three to the highest hills,
to find out from there to the northern side of the bay of shrimp, and having discovered one that is
in it, and it showed another side of the creek to the south of the cape, and noticed everything,
they returned to the boat, at 6 pm, very tired having walked three
miles without finding water or firewood, or anything else that rocks,
making it uninhabitable, even of brutes.

Saturday 12, they anchored at sunset in the Bay Shrimp in 25 fathoms, fine sand, to a league
and a half of land. This bay is very large, so in the medium is very bleak, but on the south side,
near the shore, the ships may shelter from the wind south-west, south, south-east, although in this
case will be exposed to the north and north-Estes, from which they
could defend the northern side, leaving others exposed to the winds.
In the middle of the bay is an island, which will take a mile long,
and the tip of it makes a low restinga and islets: the continent is
far from a league, and is completely covered with birds and sea lions,
walking by the bay in large numbers.

They placed the name of St. Joseph Island. Observed the sun in the middle of this bay, was found
to be in the height of 44 degrees and 32 minutes latitude and 313 degrees, and 36 minutes in
length. Ashore on Sunday 13 to 8 in the morning, Father Matias Strobl, Ensign Martin del Olmo D. Salvador,
and six soldiers, to register the field and see if there were Indians on this coast. They returned at
dusk, with no more news to be found throughout the land full of rocks and thorns, who walked four miles,
and soldiers wore the thorns hurt the legs, being very sharp. They found one that seemed river,
along whose banks rose, and at about a league and there was but there are signs that flowed to
the sea that entry any stream of water in the rainy season, or to
melt snow, but then was completely dry, thus recognizing that the
river be fabulous in this bay painted some in his letters, nor is
it fresh water or firewood, or any tree.

They found no trace of Indians, nor is it possible to dwell on this coast, where everything is
dry and barren, without being able to find a drop of water. There were many shrimp in the
bay, who had not found elsewhere, but there and in the bay of San Julian. In the evening, Monday
14, left with the north-east of Bay Shrimp, demanding the river of Sauce. On Tuesday 15 were
north-south Cape Santa Elena, who is at the northern side of Bay Shrimp, 44 degrees 30 minutes
latitude: the land it is much lower only some hillocks are projecting something, and him that
cometh from afar resemble islands.

On Wednesday 16, at night, the wind cooled too much, and caused a heavy sea. On Thursday 17 to
8 in the evening, I suddenly came a hurricane of wind southwest very hard that the four main cogiéndoles
long, put them in danger of dismast manifesto, and more when they had become by the lua, but
finally able to grasp the three, except that of the ratchet, which ran to the stern, making way to
the south-west. On Friday 18, were found at noon in 42 degrees and 33 minutes, going down towards the
river of commonly Sauce, but the winds were not allowed to arrive to him. And seeing that water
was scarce, it could not get over the smallness of the ship, the weather was winter and there, that
this river was very close to Buenos Aires, and far from the Strait of Magellan, near where was
the order of people, which according to some Spanish relations, which
have arrived from Buenos Aires to the river, and the Indians who inhabit
its banks inland, are some Sometimes towards the sea, is bad qualities
towards his mouth, continued on without entering it, and found 41
degrees ocean currents.

On Saturday March 26, at 10 am, sitting recognized the mainmast at the top, and threw a booster.
There were found, by observing the sun in 35 degrees and 36 minutes, and having found Monday 28
at 35 degrees and 43 minutes, the currents pushed them back, because on Tuesday 29 found in
36 degrees and 23 minutes. Thursday 31, at 5-1/2 o'clock in the morning, they finally found
north of Cape Santa Maria, four leagues of land. Friday April 1, at noon were 34 degrees 48 minutes
east, one quarter to the north-east of Cape Santa Maria, three leagues away. At half past
one discovered the Sugar Loaf on the west and to the 5-1/2 to his windward , a vessel that sailed
to Rio de la Plata, and his sight forced to prepare artillery and weapons. Friday 2 to 6 in the morning
in front of Maldonado, discovered to leeward boat the day before the terrified, and lateen was recognized,
and at noon Spanish cast a pennant at the mainmast, to call the boat, they knew to be tartan.
At 2 pm, holding her closer, threw Spanish sailing, securing it with a cannon shot no bullet, so
little time went to the trap, which came under the charge of D. Joseph Marin, the French nation,
who said he left Cadiz for January, with statements of His Majesty to the governor of Buenos
Aires, and not practical to bring the river, would follow the loss of this ship, as egecutó: and
Monday 4 April, at five o'clock in the afternoon, they anchored three
leagues from Buenos Aires, and the 5-1/2 to three Jesuits came in
the boat with the captain of the ship, and of the trap, and to the
7-1/2 came to report their arrival to the Governor of Buenos Aires,
D. Andonaegui Joseph, who four months earlier had sent, by order of
our king (whom God preserve), to the demarcation of the coast to the
Straits of Magellan.

What generally can be said is, that the coast of the Ocean extending from the Rio de la Plata
to the tip of the continent of South America or the southern, and is commonly called Patagones
Coast is located between 36 degrees and 40 minutes, and 52 degrees and 20 minutes south latitude
. runs from Cape San Antonio to San Jorge Bay south-west from the bay to Cape Blanco runs north-west
from Cape Blanco to Kings Island, north-south, and from the island Kings Gallegos to the river
runs south-south-west, forming several bays: and lately from here to Cape Virgins runs south-east.
All along the coast to the forty-three degrees, lowland, and say that near earth is shallow. From
the 44 degrees, sailing towards the south, is almost all the land from the coast high, to the
bay of San Julian, and in 44, 45 and 46 degrees latitude is much background near earth: and
so this stage, sailing at night, can not trust the path, for they are 40 fathoms a league of
land, and the same background is many miles out to sea. From the San Julian port of Santa Cruz is the
bare ground, and makes high barrier at the edge of the sea: found
across the intermediate good at heart.

De Santa-Cruz Gallegos returned to the river to be moderately high land, and then to Cape of Virgin's
low coast.

In Cape Matas navigation is dangerous at night in the proximity of the earth, owing to the islands,
leaving much of the sea, and the farther out is the lowest. It is also unsafe the coast from Kings
Island to San Julian, so at this juncture should sail to a safe distance from land. The winds that run
in these seas, in the summer and summer, are north, north-west, west
and south west.

The south-Estes and Estes, who would be most harmful, there are no
prevailing at this time.

From the aforesaid, the south-west high sea stand, and are almost certain
in the conjunctions, oppositions and quarter-moon.
 Then seeing in her face that she already, in this, with a deeper dismay, found
a touch of picture, I quickly added stroke to stroke. "He has red hair, very red, close-curling,
and a pale face, long in shape, with straight, good features and little, rather queer whiskers
that are as red as his hair. His eyebrows are, somehow, darker; they look particularly arched
and as if they might move a good deal. His eyes are sharp, strange--awfully; but I only know
clearly that they're rather small and very fixed. His mouth's wide, and his lips are thin,
and except for his little whiskers he's quite clean-shaven. He gives me a sort of sense of
looking like an actor."

"An actor!" It was impossible to resemble one less, at least, than Mrs. Grose at that moment.

"I've never seen one, but so I suppose them. He's tall, active, erect," I continued, "but never--no,
never!--a gentleman."

My companion's face had blanched as I went on; her round eyes started and her mild mouth gaped.
"A gentleman?" she gasped, confounded, stupefied: "a gentleman HE?"

"You know him then?"

She visibly tried to hold herself. "But he IS handsome?"

I saw the way to help her. "Remarkably!"

"And dressed--?"

"In somebody's clothes." "They're smart, but they're not his own."

She broke into a breathless affirmative groan: "They're the master's!"

I caught it up. "You DO know him?"

She faltered but a second. "Quint!" she cried.

"Quint?"

"Peter Quint--his own man, his valet, when he was here!"

"When the master was?"

Gaping still, but meeting me, she pieced it all together. "He never wore his hat, but he did
wear--well, there were waistcoats missed. They were both here--last year. Then the master went,
and Quint was alone."

I followed, but halting a little. "Alone?"

"Alone with US." Then, as from a deeper depth, "In charge," she added.

"And what became of him?"

She hung fire so long that I was still more mystified. "He went, too," she brought out at last.

"Went where?"

Her expression, at this, became extraordinary. "God knows where! He died."

"Died?" I almost shrieked.

She seemed fairly to square herself, plant herself more firmly to utter the wonder of it. "Yes.
Mr. Quint is dead."

VI

It took of course more than that particular passage to place us together in presence of what
we had now to live with as we could--my dreadful liability to impressions of the order so vividly
exemplified, and my companion's knowledge, henceforth--a knowledge half consternation and half
compassion--of that liability. There had been, this evening, after the revelation left me,
for an hour, so prostrate--there had been, for either of us, no attendance on any service but
a little service of tears and vows, of prayers and promises, a climax to the series of mutual
challenges and pledges that had straightway ensued on our retreating together to the schoolroom
and shutting ourselves up there to have everything out. The result of our having everything
out was simply to reduce our situation to the last rigor of its elements. She herself had seen
nothing, not the shadow of a shadow, and nobody in the house but the governess was in the governess's
plight; yet she accepted without directly impugning my sanity the truth as I gave it to her,
and ended by showing me, on this ground, an awestricken tenderness, an expression of the sense
of my more than questionable privilege, of which the very breath has remained with me as that
of the sweetest of human charities.

What was settled between us, accordingly, that night, was that we thought we might bear things
together; and I was not even sure that, in spite of her exemption, it was she who had the best
of the burden. I knew at this hour, I think, as well as I knew later, what I was capable of
meeting to shelter my pupils; but it took me some time to be wholly sure of what my honest
ally was prepared for to keep terms with so compromising a contract. I was queer company enough--quite
as queer as the company I received; but as I trace over what we went through I see how much
common ground we must have found in the one idea that, by good fortune, COULD steady us. It
was the idea, the second movement, that led me straight out, as I may say, of the inner chamber
of my dread. I could take the air in the court, at least, and there Mrs. Grose could join me.
Perfectly can I recall now the particular way strength came to me before we separated for the
night. We had gone over and over every feature of what I had seen.

"He was looking for someone else, you say--someone who was not you?"

"He was looking for little Miles." A portentous clearness now possessed me. "THAT'S whom he
was looking for."

"But how do you know?"

"I know, I know, I know!" My exaltation grew. "And YOU know, my dear!"

She didn't deny this, but I required, I felt, not even so much telling as that. She resumed
in a moment, at any rate: "What if HE should see him?"

"Little Miles? That's what he wants!"

She looked immensely scared again. "The child?"

"Heaven forbid! The man. He wants to appear to THEM." That he might was an awful conception,
and yet, somehow, I could keep it at bay; which, moreover, as we lingered there, was what I
succeeded in practically proving. I had an absolute certainty that I should see again what
I had already seen, but something within me said that by offering myself bravely as the sole
subject of such experience, by accepting, by inviting, by surmounting it all, I should serve
as an expiatory victim and guard the tranquility of my companions. The children, in especial,
I should thus fence about and absolutely save. I recall one of the last things I said that
night to Mrs. Grose.

"It does strike me that my pupils have never mentioned--"

She looked at me hard as I musingly pulled up. "His having been here and the time they were
with him?"

"The time they were with him, and his name, his presence, his history, in any way."

"Oh, the little lady doesn't remember. She never heard or knew."

"The circumstances of his death?" I thought with some intensity. "Perhaps not. But Miles would
remember--Miles would know."

"Ah, don't try him!" broke from Mrs. Grose.

I returned her the look she had given me. "Don't be afraid." I continued to think. "It IS rather
odd."

"That he has never spoken of him?"

"Never by the least allusion. And you tell me they were 'great friends'?"

"Oh, it wasn't HIM!" Mrs. Grose with emphasis declared. "It was Quint's own fancy. To play
with him, I mean--to spoil him." She paused a moment; then she added: "Quint was much too free."

This gave me, straight from my vision of his face--SUCH a face!--a sudden sickness of disgust.
"Too free with MY boy?"

"Too free with everyone!"

I forbore, for the moment, to analyze this description further than by the reflection that
a part of it applied to several of the members of the household, of the half-dozen maids and
men who were still of our small colony. But there was everything, for our apprehension, in
the lucky fact that no discomfortable legend, no perturbation of scullions, had ever, within
anyone's memory attached to the kind old place. It had neither bad name nor ill fame, and Mrs.
Grose, most apparently, only desired to cling to me and to quake in silence. I even put her,
the very last thing of all, to the test. It was when, at midnight, she had her hand on the
schoolroom door to take leave. "I have it from you then--for it's of great importance--that
he was definitely and admittedly bad?"

"Oh, not admittedly. I knew it--but the master didn't."

"And you never told him?"

"Well, he didn't like tale-bearing--he hated complaints. He was terribly short with anything
of that kind, and if people were all right to HIM--"

"He wouldn't be bothered with more?" This squared well enough with my impressions of him: he
was not a trouble-loving gentleman, nor so very particular perhaps about some of the company
HE kept. All the same, I pressed my interlocutress. "I promise you I would have told!"

She felt my discrimination. "I daresay I was wrong. But, really, I was afraid."

"Afraid of what?"

"Of things that man could do. Quint was so clever--he was so deep."

I took this in still more than, probably, I showed. "You weren't afraid of anything else? Not
of his effect--?"

"His effect?" she repeated with a face of anguish and waiting while I faltered.

"On innocent little precious lives. They were in your charge."

"No, they were not in mine!" she roundly and distressfully returned. "The master believed in
him and placed him here because he was supposed not to be well and the country air so good
for him. So he had everything to say. Yes"--she let me have it--"even about THEM."

"Them--that creature?" I had to smother a kind of howl. "And you could bear it!"

"No. I couldn't--and I can't now!" And the poor woman burst into tears.

A rigid control, from the next day, was, as I have said, to follow them; yet how often and
how passionately, for a week, we came back together to the subject! Much as we had discussed
it that Sunday night, I was, in the immediate later hours in especial--for it may be imagined
whether I slept--still haunted with the shadow of something she had not told me. I myself had
kept back nothing, but there was a word Mrs. Grose had kept back. I was sure, moreover, by
morning, that this was not from a failure of frankness, but because on every side there were
fears. It seems to me indeed, in retrospect, that by the time the morrow's sun was high I had
restlessly read into the fact before us almost all the meaning they were to receive from subsequent
and more cruel occurrences. What they gave me above all was just the sinister figure of the
living man--the dead one would keep awhile!--and of the months he had continuously passed at
Bly, which, added up, made a formidable stretch. The limit of this evil time had arrived only
when, on the dawn of a winter's morning, Peter Quint was found, by a laborer going to early
work, stone dead on the road from the village: a catastrophe explained--superficially at least--by
a visible wound to his head; such a wound as might have been produced--and as, on the final
evidence, HAD been--by a fatal slip, in the dark and after leaving the public house, on the
steepish icy slope, a wrong path altogether, at the bottom of which he lay. The icy slope,
the turn mistaken at night and in liquor, accounted for much--practically, in the end and after
the inquest and boundless chatter, for everything; but there had been matters in his life--strange
passages and perils, secret disorders, vices more than suspected--that would have accounted
for a good deal more.

I scarce know how to put my story into words that shall be a credible picture of my state of
mind; but I was in these days literally able to find a joy in the extraordinary flight of heroism
the occasion demanded of me. I now saw that I had been asked for a service admirable and difficult;
and there would be a greatness in letting it be seen--oh, in the right quarter!--that I could
succeed where many another girl might have failed. It was an immense help to me--I confess
I rather applaud myself as I look back!--that I saw my service so strongly and so simply. I
was there to protect and defend the little creatures in the world the most bereaved and the
most lovable, the appeal of whose helplessness had suddenly become only too explicit, a deep,
constant ache of one's own committed heart. They sailed west to the eastern tip of an island which
they called the island of Olivares on the captain of this ship: and having entered through a narrow
pipe, which divides the island from the mainland, with much work left to a small cove that makes
near the western end, unable to pass on this day which had become dry the boat with the low tide.
From a rock in the top of the island, discovered the Father Quiroga, that this port channel ran
a few miles west southwest. Also the same, and both drivers scored the Kings Island and the island of the
Rocks, which is on the northern coast. On the island of Olivares found some hares and ostriches,
and marble of various colors.

The land is arid, and lack of fresh water. On the western tip of the island there are many seafood: and
sailors found in some small pearl shells as is and that's enough. Sunday 9, returned the captain
Olivares, Father Quiroga and others, to register the south coast,
sailing west south-west, and also in the north, to see if they could
find water.

Found at ten of the day, in the south coast, a stream coming down from a considerable volume
source, which is on top of a mountain ravine, and five leagues from the port. It is freshwater, but
something heavy, like well water. Off-site is to reach any plea boat to be loaded into sea
in the same stream that descends from the source.
 My attention to them all really went to seeing
them amuse themselves immensely without me: this was a spectacle they seemed actively to prepare
and that engaged me as an active admirer. I walked in a world of their invention--they had
no occasion whatever to draw upon mine; so that my time was taken only with being, for them,
some remarkable person or thing that the game of the moment required and that was merely, thanks
to my superior, my exalted stamp, a happy and highly distinguished sinecure. I forget what
I was on the present occasion; I only remember that I was something very important and very
quiet and that Flora was playing very hard. We were on the edge of the lake, and, as we had
lately begun geography, the lake was the Sea of Azof.

Suddenly, in these circumstances, I became aware that, on the other side of the Sea of Azof,
we had an interested spectator. The way this knowledge gathered in me was the strangest thing
in the world--the strangest, that is, except the very much stranger in which it quickly merged
itself. I had sat down with a piece of work--for I was something or other that could sit--on
the old stone bench which overlooked the pond; and in this position I began to take in with
certitude, and yet without direct vision, the presence, at a distance, of a third person. The
old trees, the thick shrubbery, made a great and pleasant shade, but it was all suffused with
the brightness of the hot, still hour. There was no ambiguity in anything; none whatever, at
least, in the conviction I from one moment to another found myself forming as to what I should
see straight before me and across the lake as a consequence of raising my eyes. They were attached
at this juncture to the stitching in which I was engaged, and I can feel once more the spasm
of my effort not to move them till I should so have steadied myself as to be able to make up
my mind what to do. There was an alien object in view--a figure whose right of presence I instantly,
passionately questioned. I recollect counting over perfectly the possibilities, reminding myself
that nothing was more natural, for instance, then the appearance of one of the men about the
place, or even of a messenger, a postman, or a tradesman's boy, from the village. That reminder
had as little effect on my practical certitude as I was conscious--still even without looking--of
its having upon the character and attitude of our visitor. Nothing was more natural than that
these things should be the other things that they absolutely were not.

Of the positive identity of the apparition I would assure myself as soon as the small clock
of my courage should have ticked out the right second; meanwhile, with an effort that was already
sharp enough, I transferred my eyes straight to little Flora, who, at the moment, was about
ten yards away. My heart had stood still for an instant with the wonder and terror of the question
whether she too would see; and I held my breath while I waited for what a cry from her, what
some sudden innocent sign either of interest or of alarm, would tell me. I waited, but nothing
came; then, in the first place--and there is something more dire in this, I feel, than in anything
I have to relate--I was determined by a sense that, within a minute, all sounds from her had
previously dropped; and, in the second, by the circumstance that, also within the minute, she
had, in her play, turned her back to the water. This was her attitude when I at last looked
at her--looked with the confirmed conviction that we were still, together, under direct personal
notice. She had picked up a small flat piece of wood, which happened to have in it a little
hole that had evidently suggested to her the idea of sticking in another fragment that might
figure as a mast and make the thing a boat. This second morsel, as I watched her, she was very
markedly and intently attempting to tighten in its place. My apprehension of what she was doing
sustained me so that after some seconds I felt I was ready for more. Then I again shifted my
eyes--I faced what I had to face.

VII

I got hold of Mrs. Grose as soon after this as I could; and I can give no intelligible account
of how I fought out the interval. Yet I still hear myself cry as I fairly threw myself into
her arms: "They KNOW--it's too monstrous: they know, they know!"

"And what on earth--?" I felt her incredulity as she held me.

"Why, all that WE know--and heaven knows what else besides!" Then, as she released me, I made
it out to her, made it out perhaps only now with full coherency even to myself. "Two hours
ago, in the garden"--I could scarce articulate--"Flora SAW!"

Mrs. Grose took it as she might have taken a blow in the stomach. "She has told you?" she panted.

"Not a word--that's the horror. She kept it to herself! The child of eight, THAT child!" Unutterable
still, for me, was the stupefaction of it.

Mrs. Grose, of course, could only gape the wider. "Then how do you know?"

"I was there--I saw with my eyes: saw that she was perfectly aware."

"Do you mean aware of HIM?"

"No--of HER." I was conscious as I spoke that I looked prodigious things, for I got the slow
reflection of them in my companion's face. "Another person--this time; but a figure of quite
as unmistakable horror and evil: a woman in black, pale and dreadful--with such an air also,
and such a face!--on the other side of the lake. I was there with the child--quiet for the
hour; and in the midst of it she came."

"Came how--from where?"

"From where they come from! She just appeared and stood there--but not so near."

"And without coming nearer?"

"Oh, for the effect and the feeling, she might have been as close as you!"

My friend, with an odd impulse, fell back a step. "Was she someone you've never seen?"

"Yes. But someone the child has. Someone YOU have." Then, to show how I had thought it all
out: "My predecessor--the one who died."

"Miss Jessel?"

"Miss Jessel. You don't believe me?" I pressed.

She turned right and left in her distress. "How can you be sure?"

This drew from me, in the state of my nerves, a flash of impatience. "Then ask Flora--SHE'S
sure!" But I had no sooner spoken than I caught myself up. "No, for God's sake, DON'T! She'll
say she isn't--she'll lie!"

Mrs. Grose was not too bewildered instinctively to protest. "Ah, how CAN you?"

"Because I'm clear. Flora doesn't want me to know."

"It's only then to spare you."

"No, no--there are depths, depths! The more I go over it, the more I see in it, and the more
I see in it, the more I fear. I don't know what I DON'T see--what I DON'T fear!"

Mrs. Grose tried to keep up with me. "You mean you're afraid of seeing her again?"

"Oh, no; that's nothing--now!" Then I explained. "It's of NOT seeing her."

But my companion only looked wan. "I don't understand you."

"Why, it's that the child may keep it up--and that the child assuredly WILL--without my knowing
it."

At the image of this possibility Mrs. Grose for a moment collapsed, yet presently to pull herself
together again, as if from the positive force of the sense of what, should we yield an inch,
there would really be to give way to. "Dear, dear--we must keep our heads! And after all, if
she doesn't mind it--!" She even tried a grim joke. "Perhaps she likes it!"

"Likes SUCH things--a scrap of an infant!"

"Isn't it just a proof of her blessed innocence?" my friend bravely inquired.

She brought me, for the instant, almost round. "Oh, we must clutch at THAT--we must cling to
it! If it isn't a proof of what you say, it's a proof of--God knows what! For the woman's a
horror of horrors."

Mrs. Grose, at this, fixed her eyes a minute on the ground; then at last raising them, "Tell
me how you know," she said.

"Then you admit it's what she was?" I cried.

"Tell me how you know," my friend simply repeated.

"Know? By seeing her! By the way she looked."

"At you, do you mean--so wickedly?"

"Dear me, no--I could have borne that. She gave me never a glance. She only fixed the child."

Mrs. Grose tried to see it. "Fixed her?"

"Ah, with such awful eyes!"

She stared at mine as if they might really have resembled them. "Do you mean of dislike?"

"God help us, no. Of something much worse."

"Worse than dislike?--this left her indeed at a loss.

"With a determination--indescribable. With a kind of fury of intention."

I made her turn pale. "Intention?"

"To get hold of her." Mrs. Grose--her eyes just lingering on mine--gave a shudder and walked
to the window; and while she stood there looking out I completed my statement. "THAT'S what
Flora knows."

After a little she turned round. "The person was in black, you say?"

"In mourning--rather poor, almost shabby. But--yes--with extraordinary beauty." I now recognized
to what I had at last, stroke by stroke, brought the victim of my confidence, for she quite
visibly weighed this. "Oh, handsome--very, very," I insisted; "wonderfully handsome. But infamous."

She slowly came back to me. "Miss Jessel--WAS infamous." She once more took my hand in both
her own, holding it as tight as if to fortify me against the increase of alarm I might draw
from this disclosure. "They were both infamous," she finally said.

So, for a little, we faced it once more together; and I found absolutely a degree of help in
seeing it now so straight. "I appreciate," I said, "the great decency of your not having hitherto
spoken; but the time has certainly come to give me the whole thing." She appeared to assent
to this, but still only in silence; seeing which I went on: "I must have it now. Of what did
she die? Come, there was something between them." 

The only cathedral chapter in the Philippines there is in Manila, and has
five dignities, three dispensations, two portions and two half portions,
chaplains chorus, & c., endowed with plenty of perks such profusion,
nothing more just than to reform their allowances , bearing in mind for
that which previously enjoyed in the days of the galleon of Acapulco,
and knowing that emancipated the Americas, those allocations have been
increased with little reason and justice.

This increase in annual allocation to the perks, I have understood
to be verified pretext loss or grief that they suffered from the lack
of the amount they had in the ballot when it concluded Nao, which they sold
to trade, and thus had a bonus, but the same loss and grief suffered
perpetual rejidores Manila City Hall , spaces bought by huge amounts,
nor have they met their capital by the Government, nor have they been
compensated for their losses otherwise real and effective: in addition
to the rejidores, had an equal right to ballot for widows and orphans
of military and others in need, and have not received any compensation
for such loss, and perhaps their only recourse for survival, when
the spoils were held and other Ausilio them to maintain propriety in
them that serve, with which this or that increase by reason is unfair,
or whether it is right, the same allowance is due to the rejidores,
widows, orphans and other classes who perceived Ausilio the ballot.
prebendaries have their fixed endowment, the intention being free, and
also part of the product amounts that yield the Waqf that manages
the council and the turban, and whose revenues distributed among its
members, according to the foundations: the intention to implement
free masses for whom they are paid (which is never lacking or missing
from a country as Catholic like the Philippines), is another resource
and not unimportant, because the alms of the masses is not small,
and finally, the revenues they receive from the products or Waqf,
is the third action or Ausilio that completes a fat income, which
very well may undergo some reform in the exchequer, and reduction
in the strength to what was, leveling with justice to all classes
that had the ballot in Nao, who all suffered loss, and has been compensated
only to the class who need it least: so, therefore, is rigorous justice
is done for the reduction in the allocation of these privileges, and
be reduced to what it was before the loss of the galleon, or the primitive
marking of income.

The priests, so regular and secular, the only reform needed in terms
of endowment they receive from the treasury, the only concept to which
they are considered here, is that they level off and equal, and is given
fixed rule on their stipends and allowances, taking into account
the lucrative foot of the altar of some, as being all exclusively dedicated
to the spiritual service to the same ministry, there is enormous inequality
in the enjoyment of assignment: is the reason because in some provinces
are paid in cash, other half in cash and half in kind (rice), and
in other part in cash and two species, or vice-versa, with much variety
in terms of everything, and if this measure a principle might be, as
indeed can make sure it was very beneficial to be of interest to pastors
and stimulus that will help the Indians to promote agriculture, and
the day is harmful, because the kind to be paid to pastors , worth a
double or more than their fair share and was better when setting these
allocations, and this is without prejudice to the taxpayers for the state.
In this regard there have been several complaints and has even tried
to level them more than once and set a fee determined by means of
a General-rule for all provinces, and although some variation has
been made, but not all did the same, old vices or abuses prevail.

It is therefore necessary that the allocation that been paid to the priests, alike in all the Islands,
and that nothing be paid in kind. The Indians must be free in the sale of its products as and when
they see fit, any other rules on unfair, can not but be burdensome to
the exchequer. On the increase or diminution of stipends, nothing can
be said with fixed data, or mistakes without fear of suffering that may be of
importance: only warn that the priests who are assigned to missions, which
is to form new towns, attracting and catechize infidel Indians in various
parts of the islands there, are poorly equipped, and were it not for
the other religiously Ausilio and his friends or benefactors, could
hardly survive, and yet I still have to spend many days to prepare and cultivate
a piece of land, forming a little rice planting provided bread for
the year, and hunt deer, to make jerky or salon, which cover the country
called, and hereby eat some meat, as there are many hardships that
happen and is not easily remedied. It must also be said that the pastors
of small towns suffering many hardships, because the foot of the altar
nothing will occur and deserved, as well as those for missions, some
consideration in pointing out their stipends, which could aumentárseles
stooping to anything the pastors of larger towns, or to move from
2000 taxes, but in these, even though their costs are more significant,
having to maintain one, two or more coadjutor, but her foot altar
More substantial is no shortage of alms for Masses, and stipends up
enough, of those who can rebajárseles somewhere to attend to the poor
pastors and missionaries.

From that I conclude this reform seems to be unfounded, and even just for the benefit of leveling the
best way possible and without charge of the treasury, the distribution
of property among the priests, all dedicated to it so high and important
ministry, nothing more just than to provide them means more analogous
to preserve decency and dignity of their state which corresponds with
the most fair proportion as possible, may be as shown, and so continue
until the increase of population claiming to vary the method to be
determined.

These are the basics that I can deliver on the administration and
distribution of the estate public in the Philippines and I am convinced
that (even if poorly coordinated and not very full, because the shortness
of my lights do not give of himself otherwise, the narrowness with
which I will not support writing them over digressions, and some papers
having been advised astray interesting, prevent me from providing
more data) have news of some importance to be able to form some idea
of the merit of those islands, and the Government take some measures
on reforming the state of the Philippine Islands to the delight of
them demand, extent and promotion of their income, and establish fair
economies, containing an increase in the employees, and seeks to reduce
to the purely accurate and indispensable, if they are to make possible
savings, if at all times should be pursued in the current shortages
and hardship by the backward state is more desirable, necessary and
required all genera of fair and rational economy.

APPENDIX. Of the Waqf of the Islands. Under this denomination is an
inflow, while some want to present it as a matter of little moment
and importance, there are those who Propal be an immense wealth,
and although it should despise those who only seek to reduce that
capital, is also cautious on our guard to hear the exaggerations of
others and the sentences that make them.

These are a few pious works where to go to smaller banks borrow funds
under the guarantees agreed that businesses need for their pecuniary
Ausilio, are managed by locals to be brothers of the respective corporations
whose charge they are, under certain rules, regulations or statutes
that define respective obligations, and all are but a few performers
of the last wills of testators bequeathed to them by their funds for
uses that had as worth noting. Waqfs Manila testators or private foundations,
form a fairly capital consideration. Allocate funds for jiro, were
charged with pension products and charges for objects of divine worship
and welfare: therefore deserve every consideration of the Government,
the benefits of them can bring agriculture and industry of the Islands.
If the privilege of limited jiro Manila to New Spain had not been reduced
to a merely passive transit trade or transport, these facilities
to step to getting rich, they have given to this trade a true opulence.

Of the enormous value of 200 to 500, and even more, by 100 they left
in the Acapulco galleon business, most businessmen were for foreigners from
India and China, whose effects were ineffective almost all the cargo of Naos:
Another great part was for pious works, as there were years that were
paid 50 per 100 of the amounts advanced by, so that in favor of the
merchants of Manila as a benefit was reduced, which would prove an estimate
that was done for the many millions of dollars that have been imported
into the Philippines from New Spain by the galleons, and of little
value in the respective currency and has been promoting the merchants
of Manila.

At the time of establishment of these foundations are not acquainted with other trade that of
Acapulco, India and China, though divided into three Jiros, was a single
negotiation, because most of the money made from stockpiles pious works in these
two markets, giving its output in New Spain, by way who left the trade
entirely with New Spain, have ceased while the Jiros of India and China,
and been reduced to only those objects of consumption in the country.
This trade however, although not under the foot lucrative than before,
will resurrect when the affairs of Spain are arranged with the American
Republics, is formally recognized their independence, or by opening
trade agreements, but will never be what it was .

The founders of these pious works preveyeron he could not get a day to
cease communication and commerce of the Philippines to New Spain,
and its rules of administration were limited to those three classes Jiros,
as sudden cessation has left idle funds and exposed to a thousand continjencias.
Some of these foundations can only have a small part of them to award
land to others (and is the most Gen.) do not is this allowed by statute or
rules of the founders, and in this state of affairs is of necessity
the Government interposed its authority, so that the objects of the
foundations have to discharge in the most possible to be obtained
or given a commutation of Jiros, and using such funds for the benefit
and promotion of agriculture, industry and factories of the country,
who had already received from them an incalculable increase if the
great advantages and profits of trade in Acapulco, had not attracted
so much attention of the founders toward that destination. It should
be also a political maxim of government to protect these facilities
the capital, which flows in the event of war or a sudden extraordinary
revolution in the interior of the islands can get a fix on the extremity
of his inability to have or the contributions of the country, nor
with the customs revenue and rents.

CONCLUSION.

In all aspects, although very light, anyone know the importance of
the provinces of the Philippines, its extent, wealth and assets in
that country if it holds for self-aggrandizement greatly: see also
that the judicial system is mounted under a abnormal foot more complicated
and even harmful, that nothing is easier than reducing the natural
order must be, and that no proper farm economies, and for salaries
paid unnecessary, for the grown and even exorbitant number of employees
remaining in existence, they have increased, and that if there is
no prompt and effective remedy to this evil, that country will be
reduced to a state employee and nothing more; class in every nation
should be reduced as soon as possible, that abound in his arms the
other laborious and productive agriculture, industry and trade, have
the momentum and encouragement, and here the full development of wealth
and public prosperity, with the other known happiness of a flourishing
state.

Philippines with its beautiful and so fertile soil, which no other,
and three and a half million inhabitants, gathers all the elements that
may prove necessary to be a country of prosperity and wealth. More than
three hundred years have passed since the immortal Legaspi set it
in this rejiones the banner of the cross, and conquered those islands
for Spain [23].

Time and is already more than enough to think about your happiness, that you remove the obstacles
that are opposed to it, and nothing dubious or misleading evidence is patentice and then seeing those
people, our brothers, we want prosperity as well as ours, or rather, that their well-being reputed as
ours, and that proves true to his loyalty, not denied until today, it seized the mother country
to improve their lot and condition, as inevitably will happen by the special law will be given
without prejudice to their legitimate complaints are heard and addressed,
to ensure that the mother country yearns and works as much as can
be expensive, to ensure the happiness of their provinces in the Philippines.

Finally, after what has been exposed both on services and defects in the administration and justice
and the finances in those possessions, and remedies that could certainly be used to correct
abuses, redress wrongs, and give impetus to the prosperity of the islands remains even add that
if you like and want the happiness of those provinces, whether in good faith want their peace,
tranquility and public peace, bearing in mind that even has to spend some time [24] until
the courts can deal with the work presented by the Government to formulate laws Overseas special, very useful,
very desirable and beneficial would be to refine those works, ask of our provinces overseas
bases on which to base the new rules have to be formulated, discussed and sanctioned. People
remarkable for its capacity, lights and talents, not least that their wealth, have the Philippines
and the beautiful West Indies Well, Get in on each of these possessions
a meeting of people to choose for their talents, honorable history,
and guarantees for their capital, and under the chairmanship of the
governors generals captains , mail your payment to be engaged and take up
to formulate and discuss the main foundations, principles or bases of
the reforms most suitable to guarantee their safety, their property,
and establish the improvements the demand century light, and have to
drive to those provinces healthier and fulfilled the development
of their prosperity. facilis These jobs run by this method, as well
as forward and much the case that the Government should do, would
greatly facilitate the prompt settlement of those laws.

 They got their little tasks as if
they loved them, and indulged, from the mere exuberance of the gift, in the most unimposed
little miracles of memory. They not only popped out at me as tigers and as Romans, but as Shakespeareans,
astronomers, and navigators. This was so singularly the case that it had presumably much to
do with the fact as to which, at the present day, I am at a loss for a different explanation:
I allude to my unnatural composure on the subject of another school for Miles. What I remember
is that I was content not, for the time, to open the question, and that contentment must have
sprung from the sense of his perpetually striking show of cleverness. He was too clever for
a bad governess, for a parson's daughter, to spoil; and the strangest if not the brightest
thread in the pensive embroidery I just spoke of was the impression I might have got, if I
had dared to work it out, that he was under some influence operating in his small intellectual
life as a tremendous incitement.

If it was easy to reflect, however, that such a boy could postpone school, it was at least
as marked that for such a boy to have been "kicked out" by a schoolmaster was a mystification
without end. Let me add that in their company now--and I was careful almost never to be out
of it--I could follow no scent very far. We lived in a cloud of music and love and success
and private theatricals. The musical sense in each of the children was of the quickest, but
the elder in especial had a marvelous knack of catching and repeating. The schoolroom piano
broke into all gruesome fancies; and when that failed there were confabulations in corners,
with a sequel of one of them going out in the highest spirits in order to "come in" as something
new. I had had brothers myself, and it was no revelation to me that little girls could be slavish
idolaters of little boys. What surpassed everything was that there was a little boy in the
world who could have for the inferior age, sex, and intelligence so fine a consideration. They
were extraordinarily at one, and to say that they never either quarreled or complained is to
make the note of praise coarse for their quality of sweetness. Sometimes, indeed, when I dropped
into coarseness, I perhaps came across traces of little understandings between them by which
one of them should keep me occupied while the other slipped away. There is a naive side, I
suppose, in all diplomacy; but if my pupils practiced upon me, it was surely with the minimum
of grossness. It was all in the other quarter that, after a lull, the grossness broke out.

I find that I really hang back; but I must take my plunge. In going on with the record of what
was hideous at Bly, I not only challenge the most liberal faith--for which I little care; but--and
this is another matter--I renew what I myself suffered, I again push my way through it to the
end. There came suddenly an hour after which, as I look back, the affair seems to me to have
been all pure suffering; but I have at least reached the heart of it, and the straightest road
out is doubtless to advance. One evening--with nothing to lead up or to prepare it--I felt
the cold touch of the impression that had breathed on me the night of my arrival and which,
much lighter then, as I have mentioned, I should probably have made little of in memory had
my subsequent sojourn been less agitated. I had not gone to bed; I sat reading by a couple
of candles. There was a roomful of old books at Bly--last-century fiction, some of it, which,
to the extent of a distinctly deprecated renown, but never to so much as that of a stray specimen,
had reached the sequestered home and appealed to the unavowed curiosity of my youth. I remember
that the book I had in my hand was Fielding's Amelia; also that I was wholly awake. I recall
further both a general conviction that it was horribly late and a particular objection to looking
at my watch. I figure, finally, that the white curtain draping, in the fashion of those days,
the head of Flora's little bed, shrouded, as I had assured myself long before, the perfection
of childish rest. I recollect in short that, though I was deeply interested in my author, I
found myself, at the turn of a page and with his spell all scattered, looking straight up from
him and hard at the door of my room. There was a moment during which I listened, reminded of
the faint sense I had had, the first night, of there being something undefinably astir in the
house, and noted the soft breath of the open casement just move the half-drawn blind. Then,
with all the marks of a deliberation that must have seemed magnificent had there been anyone
to admire it, I laid down my book, rose to my feet, and, taking a candle, went straight out
of the room and, from the passage, on which my light made little impression, noiselessly closed
and locked the door.

I can say now neither what determined nor what guided me, but I went straight along the lobby,
holding my candle high, till I came within sight of the tall window that presided over the
great turn of the staircase. At this point I precipitately found myself aware of three things.
They were practically simultaneous, yet they had flashes of succession. My candle, under a
bold flourish, went out, and I perceived, by the uncovered window, that the yielding dusk of
earliest morning rendered it unnecessary. Without it, the next instant, I saw that there was
someone on the stair. I speak of sequences, but I required no lapse of seconds to stiffen myself
for a third encounter with Quint. The apparition had reached the landing halfway up and was
therefore on the spot nearest the window, where at sight of me, it stopped short and fixed
me exactly as it had fixed me from the tower and from the garden. He knew me as well as I knew
him; and so, in the cold, faint twilight, with a glimmer in the high glass and another on the
polish of the oak stair below, we faced each other in our common intensity. He was absolutely,
on this occasion, a living, detestable, dangerous presence. But that was not the wonder of
wonders; I reserve this distinction for quite another circumstance: the circumstance that dread
had unmistakably quitted me and that there was nothing in me there that didn't meet and measure
him.

I had plenty of anguish after that extraordinary moment, but I had, thank God, no terror. And
he knew I had not--I found myself at the end of an instant magnificently aware of this. I felt,
in a fierce rigor of confidence, that if I stood my ground a minute I should cease--for the
time, at least--to have him to reckon with; and during the minute, accordingly, the thing was
as human and hideous as a real interview: hideous just because it WAS human, as human as to
have met alone, in the small hours, in a sleeping house, some enemy, some adventurer, some
criminal. It was the dead silence of our long gaze at such close quarters that gave the whole
horror, huge as it was, its only note of the unnatural. If I had met a murderer in such a place
and at such an hour, we still at least would have spoken. Something would have passed, in life,
between us; if nothing had passed, one of us would have moved. The moment was so prolonged
that it would have taken but little more to make me doubt if even I were in life. I can't express
what followed it save by saying that the silence itself--which was indeed in a manner an attestation
of my strength--became the element into which I saw the figure disappear; in which I definitely
saw it turn as I might have seen the low wretch to which it had once belonged turn on receipt
of an order, and pass, with my eyes on the villainous back that no hunch could have more disfigured,
straight down the staircase and into the darkness in which the next bend was lost.

X

I remained awhile at the top of the stair, but with the effect presently of understanding that
when my visitor had gone, he had gone: then I returned to my room. The foremost thing I saw
there by the light of the candle I had left burning was that Flora's little bed was empty;
and on this I caught my breath with all the terror that, five minutes before, I had been able
to resist. I dashed at the place in which I had left her lying and over which (for the small
silk counterpane and the sheets were disarranged) the white curtains had been deceivingly pulled
forward; then my step, to my unutterable relief, produced an answering sound: I perceived an
agitation of the window blind, and the child, ducking down, emerged rosily from the other side
of it. She stood there in so much of her candor and so little of her nightgown, with her pink
bare feet and the golden glow of her curls. She looked intensely grave, and I had never had
such a sense of losing an advantage acquired (the thrill of which had just been so prodigious)
as on my consciousness that she addressed me with a reproach. "You naughty: where HAVE you
been?"--instead of challenging her own irregularity I found myself arraigned and explaining.
She herself explained, for that matter, with the loveliest, eagerest simplicity. She had known
suddenly, as she lay there, that I was out of the room, and had jumped up to see what had become
of me. I had dropped, with the joy of her reappearance, back into my chair--feeling then, and
then only, a little faint; and she had pattered straight over to me, thrown herself upon my
knee, given herself to be held with the flame of the candle full in the wonderful little face
that was still flushed with sleep. I remember closing my eyes an instant, yieldingly, consciously,
as before the excess of something beautiful that shone out of the blue of her own. "You were
looking for me out of the window?" I said. "You thought I might be walking in the grounds?"

"Well, you know, I thought someone was"--she never blanched as she smiled out that at me.

Oh, how I looked at her now! "And did you see anyone?"

"Ah, NO!" she returned, almost with the full privilege of childish inconsequence, resentfully,
though with a long sweetness in her little drawl of the negative.

At that moment, in the state of my nerves, I absolutely believed she lied; and if I once more
closed my eyes it was before the dazzle of the three or four possible ways in which I might
take this up. One of these, for a moment, tempted me with such singular intensity that, to
withstand it, I must have gripped my little girl with a spasm that, wonderfully, she submitted
to without a cry or a sign of fright. Why not break out at her on the spot and have it all
over?--give it to her straight in her lovely little lighted face? "You see, you see, you KNOW
that you do and that you already quite suspect I believe it; therefore, why not frankly confess
it to me, so that we may at least live with it together and learn perhaps, in the strangeness
of our fate, where we are and what it means?" This solicitation dropped, alas, as it came:
if I could immediately have succumbed to it I might have spared myself--well, you'll see what.
Instead of succumbing I sprang again to my feet, looked at her bed, and took a helpless middle
way. "Why did you pull the curtain over the place to make me think you were still there?"

Flora luminously considered; after which, with her little divine smile: "Because I don't like
to frighten you!"

"But if I had, by your idea, gone out--?" 

One morning (spring and radiant and beautiful), to open one of those windows, the rapist saw in
the garden next door wandered, no ghosts or goblins, but some people of very noble appearance, who
were there as recognizing and taking traces. She was a lady as twenty to twenty-four, very
gentle and beautiful, blonde and white, good-continent and stature, thoughtful and serious, noble and richly
dressed.

Quintanona owner and prop was accompanied countersunk, and spoke earnestly, and proponíanla , to what
seemed from the signs, repairs and arrangements in the garden, two master builders. Were followed by
two pages, one of whom carried a folding chair rich and the other a velvet cushion with gold tassels
under the arm, and plywood in the other a rich carpet. Finally, four lackeys mustachioed, each with
swords in their belts, they served.

There was no doubt that this was a great lady, if not a princess, at least in title, and if not,
rich, and in point of nobility, it was full and smelled that transcended. Not going with it person
by appearance as it equaled, had to think a widow, that a maiden, father, brother or guardian
to have together.

Alegráronsele eye and even the guts to Vivaise-thousand-years because he thought that it so, and
with two master builders who seemed, sought traces and adopted measures in the garden, should
have bought the house, and began to take accounts with benefits that could procure such a good
neighborhood; because they think that this divine beauty not had to come like flies to honey lovers,
was to be simple, and already the rapist up stories and tangles, which was for insurance, and where
he would walk as a very important person, which would produce good shields, if not two separate
doubloons, for all this, and anxious to inquire what had left the window, let go by the rickety stairs,
and threw himself on the street, going to find her body in the Still life of Aunt trifles, which
he saw as he went to the pot, a bowl filled with beef and polish sausage, and went after table,
where in the last of the tavern, sat, as used, Mr Vivaise-thousand-years.
He asked him, he heard her attentively, told him that what she had
researched, it is enough that the lady that the rapist had seen in
the garden of the house elf, was a rich lady Indiana, who, with his
servants and some barrels full of gold had come from Mexico, and the
inn aposentádose Head of King Peter, and he had bought the house,
unaware that he had duende, his master the Marquis of Alfarnaches,
and that what Mr Vivaise-thousand-years had seen was that the said
Indian beautiful and rich widow sought to turn that way abandoned
and uncultivated garden into a paradise in which solace.

Said the barber to bodegonera where he got all the news, and told her that the stake had been accompanying
the beautiful Indian, had come three days before the tavern, and had asked who was the master
of the uninhabited house and if he knew that the house were sold and to what she had answered
the goblin hiding it, which had earned a good gift of the Marquis of Alfarnaches, who had warned in
good time, and that the marquis had said then that such a lady called Dona Guiomar de Céspedes and Alvarado,
who was a widow, the have-nots, and that the death of her husband, who had been an old judge of
the chancery of Mexico, had made good doubloons his estate, and had
come to Sevilla, where he was natural, but for having brought her
husband to Mexico, everyone believed her and called Indiana.

Comiose with very good appetite and very pleased by this news and his bowl of nail Mr Vivaise
sausage-thousand-years and was restored to his home, took out the lattice and hung up the basins
to the door, and began to strum the guitar, waiting for the first had need to shave. The next
day ensued masons and all kinds of artists, and began to work at home, and within two weeks there
was no person who might recognize, as it had been composed and disrupted, and painted and rejuvenated,
he had removed the old stone puéstose weapons and in its place, and
the garden had been cleared , and populated with statues and fountains,
and so that it had been done before wild, intricate and dreary, a beautiful
green and delicious. Carriages, and mules, and horses, had filled
the garage and stables, and the hall boiled the liveried footmen, and
gave joy to see the carpeted stairs and pots all over them. Finally,
a Sunday, the beautiful widow Dona Guiomar de Céspedes and Alvarado
came to the house, and as it came, the house was closed and bolted,
and so that it seemed that what the house had been made to enchant
later, the door would not open but in the morning twilight, to go
out a sedan chair, which was undoubtedly the beautiful Dona Guiomar,
and an hour later when the sedan chair back, both the outward and
the coming of the litter was accompanied by the owner, the stick,
the two pages, with the chair, the cogín and carpet, and the four
lackeys mustachioed you to live-thousand-years had seen, as we said
before, accompanying the lady in the yard or garden at the house elf.

Vivaise followed a morning-thousand-years to the widow, and saw that led to the cathedral, and that
she would followed by the servants, to the chapel of San Fernando, and there the pages spread over
the white marble carpet, opened the folding chair, and placed in
front of her velvet cushion with gold tassels to the beautiful Indian
kneel down.

The
servants were out of the chapel, and after hearing the morning Mass, the lady stood up, picked
up the pages cushion, chair and carpet, was heading the Indian at the door of the Patio de los
Naranjos, took his seat there hands, and returned home. Put them in ambush in the cathedral Vivaise-thousand-years,
peeping, but nothing could make out with respect to the lady, but even on his knees was gallant, that
his hands, which had a rich string of pearls, they were more pearly, and I heard mass with a singular
devotion in the face, he hid a zealous lace veil, and compliment her figure hidden mantle slice
of Florence. Speak to him seen in the garden discovered the face Vivaise-thousand-years had
admired a beautiful, young man had known, but his image was erased
from his memory in vain had registered the garden from her window,
the lady never went out to him, or at less than a day, and you may
live-thousand-years had failed to show signs that they satisfy the
rich suitors that he served to his loves, and he had done regarding
the new and beautiful lady of the house elf.

The servants, or were faithful, or afraid and gave no light, even though you may live-thousand-years
and entertained the guests at the tavern, they did not say to his wife but was a honestísima lady, who
was crying and that penalties in his solitude: If you love those sentences were the servants
did not say or did not know, and you may live-thousand-years lived like a banshee, poking their
noses through all the cracks, and not smell anything that will serve to make sure what breed of
bird, the prodigy was human, that being rich, young fleeing the world, and being beautiful was
not looking for love. well spent days, weeks and months, always the same thing, without being
seen rather than the lady package of two lights, while leaving the sedan chair in the cathedral,
and returning to bury an hour in silence and in the privacy of your
home, which remained closed, no more and no less than when it was
said was inhabited by elves, the garden did not come out the day:
just some nights when the moon used to see you live-thousand-years
old, dressed in white and wandering like a ghost, after going to sit
on a stone bench near the fountain, which remain there long motionless
time, until at last he rose, and slowly crossed the garden and into
the house: the moonlight was not enough for you to live-thousand-years
had seen his face.

The diminished grew desperate, and said the gentlemen who plagued him with questions, he thought
well that all this was not reality, but sleep, and had to think that the goblins were still
in the house, and had taken the form of lady and the servants that attended, notwithstanding that the part of
such a lady and her servants with her, were to hear Mass at dawn every day, which could be very
good, as were the aforementioned elves Christian souls in purgatory . The entire community of
the Third, who shaved since you live prior to the last lay-thousand-years, he was also busy and
start by imagining the stories of their rapist, and that price increases
were coming to these stories, who came to the hearing the news of
the Inquisition in Seville that he had a house inhabited by people
suspected of which murmured spells and charms, because there were
many strange things.

What are those rich had carriages, those beautiful horses, mules, those powerful, that the neighborhood
had seen him enter the house elf? nobody had seen him. What did they eat all those people, and
all those animals? the door of the house never opened. And how could this be? The Inquisition
sent its deputies to unobtrusively observe the house that was known as old curse, and they saw
what were its new inhabitants, and the sheriff said it was already
known, namely that the lady was every morning early mass at the cathedral,
and heard it with awe, he turned then to his house to the door and
windows, and balconies were closed, and not a sound was heard inside,
the house elf seemed delighted, and only one wicket of the garden
came early six black slaves, who went to the Plaza de la Encarnación
and returned with six large baskets full of provisions, which, finally,
the few servants who were out of the house serious and pale as unearthed,
and while the guests were drinking when they spoke very little and
thought, and are not pulled a single word on his wife.

The Holy Office determined, therefore, know what you had in that; and one night at midnight, on
Saturday, at which time your flight witches tend to Barahona, a relative knocked on the doors
of the house of the lady called Phantom, which opened, humbly obeying the orders of the Inquisition.
Then he put on the hall the family with his black cohort of deputies, and was indeed what that
house possessed had told the Inquisition, when he saw that, indeed,
the servants were very pale and very serious and very serious, and
he came a whiff of them as grave and something from another world,
and especially when, warned the owner of the house, and raised in
a hurry, because resting, and poorly laid the golden hair under a
scarf, and dressed in white, left the podium, where the family was
waiting severity armed and determined to take prey, saw little in
it that would confirm in witchcraft that lady blamed idle gossips
and see Dona Guiomar and believed caught by the familiar big heads
was all at one point, for her and delve into such a tremor that if
it had bells on their legs had caused more noise than a mule kick
trot was a very point, and secósele the palate and tongue quedósele
cold and he tied his voice in the throat in all the days of his life
he had never seen a more graceful girl, no more noble lady, or most
singular beauty.

In
short, for them, having studied for the clergy, and have taken a vow of chastity,
but had not entered the Order, had seemed all women except the Virgin
Mary and the mother who had given birth, tricks the devil to lose men,
suddenly entrole such a loving and longing such a thirst for beauty,
which was unknown to himself and the devil put him in the body, and
thought that if all the witches were like that, would come to rule
the world by them, and instead of talking tough and dry and stilted
and imperative to that divinity, hands and kissed it humbly pleaded their
server too, and even raised.

And she asked what was so gone home at all hours and of rapping so loud, and just as awesome
accompaniment bailiffs, he heard her voice was clear and sonorous and mellifluous, figurósele who
had come down from heaven to earth an angel, and He apologized, and apologized to the Inquisition,
saying that the door had been deceived, and not was where he went, but to house a barber
who lived in the neighborhood, and the devil without doubt, protect the above-mentioned, had he and
his deputies should believe that barbering was solar noble old house, and strongly begging
her to forgive him, kissed his hands and asked for by his permission to depart. Concediósela Dona
Guiomar, but with a motive that when attached to the barber to return, she would wait, I had
to say. With this, he went out of the house the family with his squad alguacilesco, and struck
the barber's rebound, whom he found a witch smelling ointment, which they said a sheriff who know
much about these things, and as the rapist was slow to respond and open more than just, this confirmose
more suspicion and considered that it was in his person, he was found sticky, with what, and
have found in a corner some pots and flasks, he was handcuffed, and not gentle and attractive
girl, but two wives of iron, annealed wire chain of sheriffs and
troopers wearing and all the other people of prey that had the Inquisition
and the king for the good service of the republic, and with this and
with some belt and cuffs that were given as means of estimating and
caress, sacáronle hand in hand and side by side, giving him one of
the cages in the basement of the prison of the Inquisition, and asking,
In short, his beard as he deserved, he relayed that if both nonsense
against clean reputation and life of Dona Guiomar, this does not befall
whence it draws, that because God wills it, rogues are caught many
times in the same ties that tend to others to lose, and they are lost.
desalted turned round the family home of Dona Guiomar, and no company
but a bailiff who carried the lantern, when he had left in fear, cold
and iron the rapist, and under locks, and took receipt of his person
and to such acontecíale Gines de Sepulveda, who was the name of this
worthy family, which was not all him, and he said to himself that
he should also be arrested and tried by the Inquisition, because while
he looked, he had sinned, fans of a woman, as to their vow of chastity,
and had failed in its obligation not to turn to who had ordered his
arrest, but rather disculpádola, and excusádola and puéstose for his
sin on his part, without importársele else, and wished that you were
born wings to arrive soon, and finally, did not live in fear of having
offended God, and longing for it took to see that beautiful sun, at
midnight, had dazzled.

Iban sheriff and family front behind which more could be stretching the uprights and extending their necks,
each entertainment aficionado insurance that you would do in that house while waiting paramount, restless
and dying and the other to return to Dona Guiomar, and waited for the sheriff to a pretty maid, or owner
not bad mustaches came to him, by order of her mistress, to make the wait less annoying, that the
sheriff no could not believe a thing they love the family returned
home alone, and without color of law, and that this had left the house
without turning to anyone, and as for the family, not thinking anything
but that He threw goblins or devils to bring to their doom, and though
he did not want, salíasele soul to mean, as if his soul had suddenly
wanted to come and join those other soul that inside that beautiful
body alive.

And as well as going family and shot the officer, and very close to the house of Dona Guiomar, heard
a murmur of voices from a nearby street revolt came, and like tuning guitars, things that were
clearly implied that it was music to some love to the lady of his thoughts, and then an ordinance
had ordered that night and suddenly not to exceptional music in the streets, under penalty of
two days in jail and ten ducats for charitable works, and it sounded like people meeting at a short
distance seemed great and should be cheerful and malevolent, and they were only two, or one
might say better, one and a half, because the family to little purpose, he ordered the sheriff
twisting passage through the mouth of an alley that was visible hand, and scenery, with which the
family thought he had avoided this unholy people, but he saw when he was given back a short distance
from the house of Dona Guiomar, that his door was a large bundle of shadows and men , which confused
sound of voices came demure. abode and family around the corner bracket, and soon heard that broke
in a very harmonious music of fiddles, and that when finished the refrain, a deep voice, melancholy,
love and sweet singing follows: SONNET is insensitive to the sun
the ice hard cold winter in the rigor wicked water in the spring,
in summer in warm steam rises into the sky.

Whenever I was insensitive to the yearning love the ungrateful empty heart My tears now for
the sake crave, Lava will be given a Mongibelo. Who but you, madam, a move that forced my chest
cold and enemy of all love and all performance, I hope that today without a shadow of hope, I
live dying, and hallo my punishment in the flame of love which is
my torment?

The voice paused, and then heard a very deep sigh, the guitars, which had finished singing his
music, could not meet their agreed voices, and there was some room
for silence so great that we could hear the flight of a mosquito there
at that point had passed, and lasted even the charm of music, and the
family did not know what to think about what was going on shortly before
his chaste soul, when concert and sweetness more than before, turned
their guitars to refrain. Love seemed to fly in the air and filled the
air, love the guitars they said, of love, listening to their viewpoints
throbbing dark, not knowing by whom, and all in imagination without
subject, Dona Guiomar, and love was poisoned in sweet poison the heart
of the family, he saw before his eyes, even if there was, the golden
strands of silky hair of the widow, and her alabaster brow, his lips,
that resembled a grenade ajar, and their eyes, with the clear blue sky
of dawn could not compete, and the miserable struggling with that love
so suddenly that he had gotten into the soul, as if he had been tempted
by Satan, and heavenly fire, which came from hell, and taken by beautiful
windows which look out and be seen on earth the divine eyes of the
Indian. ritornello was still in the fiddles, cleaned the chest to
start again, perhaps with a competitor madrigal sonnet power-lover,
when the voices of doing take to justice! who came from the top of
the lane, cut into the tapping point of the guitars, leaving place
to clash their shields, which the musicians hastily tore the belt,
and perhaps to draw their swords were against their hawks; and soon
was no longer sweet music that was heard in the street, but swords
are rough, that the streams of sparks flew from them, it seemed as
if there were assembled all the forges of Vulcan.

Apercibiose in amazement himself the family, that he had previously done without embarrassment
profession shy, and had at gala seem prudent and well regarded, not afraid of what would have caused
horrified by e íbasele the hand knob the sword, which until then had been for ornament, and felt bolder
and bolder all that Gerineldo, that love loving niece of Charlemagne, and thought that the sonnet
had said well, that such changes make love , which are to believed, as it reverses those who
fall under his rule, and diminished the changes in haughty, and lambs
into lions, and not daring to move a foot without asking leave to another,
abuses of However, without any breakage not jump or obstacle, which
is unsurpassed, which does not expire, but since it was not nothing
on what was coming, and before should be glad that the round will
rid the streets allowed to reach the door of the beautiful widow,
who undoubtedly awaited him, waited quietly and waiting to see what
that was, aimed and shot, and who was their victory was not very clear:
that street coming down with a knife, and not sweet lovers hear compliments,
but oaths and curses, and cries of those who reached a hard tip, and
both that and so locked lasted, which seemed clear that if the crawlers
were hard to peel, were not much softer the round, nor had there that
have crippled or weak, depending raged, the longer it lasted, that
storm of cuts and setbacks.

But he managed to go for the bottom of the street another round,
that, as I was fresh, rammed hard and put between two powers musicians,
had to cede the field, thus covering his face with her veil, and
teeth clenching fists, slammed each with what was before, rang some pistol shots,
arremolináronse the sheriffs of both rounds, and the musicians escaped,
leaving the street a broken guitar and wounded a sheriff, which of them
when they arrived at the scene of the fight, I found not one, not had to
indicate who they were, but clearly had enough left to know, for what
they did, they were all gentlemen, and good.

There were things enough, taking one with another, to chatter about, if one went very fast
and knew by instinct when to go round. They pulled with an art of their own the strings of
my invention and my memory; and nothing else perhaps, when I thought of such occasions afterward,
gave me so the suspicion of being watched from under cover. It was in any case over MY life,
MY past, and MY friends alone that we could take anything like our ease--a state of affairs
that led them sometimes without the least pertinence to break out into sociable reminders.
I was invited--with no visible connection--to repeat afresh Goody Gosling's celebrated mot
or to confirm the details already supplied as to the cleverness of the vicarage pony.

It was partly at such junctures as these and partly at quite different ones that, with the
turn my matters had now taken, my predicament, as I have called it, grew most sensible. The
fact that the days passed for me without another encounter ought, it would have appeared, to
have done something toward soothing my nerves. Since the light brush, that second night on
the upper landing, of the presence of a woman at the foot of the stair, I had seen nothing,
whether in or out of the house, that one had better not have seen. There was many a corner
round which I expected to come upon Quint, and many a situation that, in a merely sinister
way, would have favored the appearance of Miss Jessel. The summer had turned, the summer had
gone; the autumn had dropped upon Bly and had blown out half our lights. The place, with its
gray sky and withered garlands, its bared spaces and scattered dead leaves, was like a theater
after the performance--all strewn with crumpled playbills. There were exactly states of the
air, conditions of sound and of stillness, unspeakable impressions of the KIND of ministering
moment, that brought back to me, long enough to catch it, the feeling of the medium in which,
that June evening out of doors, I had had my first sight of Quint, and in which, too, at those
other instants, I had, after seeing him through the window, looked for him in vain in the circle
of shrubbery. I recognized the signs, the portents--I recognized the moment, the spot. But
they remained unaccompanied and empty, and I continued unmolested; if unmolested one could
call a young woman whose sensibility had, in the most extraordinary fashion, not declined but
deepened. I had said in my talk with Mrs. Grose on that horrid scene of Flora's by the lake--and
had perplexed her by so saying--that it would from that moment distress me much more to lose
my power than to keep it. I had then expressed what was vividly in my mind: the truth that,
whether the children really saw or not--since, that is, it was not yet definitely proved--I
greatly preferred, as a safeguard, the fullness of my own exposure. I was ready to know the
very worst that was to be known. What I had then had an ugly glimpse of was that my eyes might
be sealed just while theirs were most opened. Well, my eyes WERE sealed, it appeared, at present--a
consummation for which it seemed blasphemous not to thank God. There was, alas, a difficulty
about that: I would have thanked him with all my soul had I not had in a proportionate measure
this conviction of the secret of my pupils.

How can I retrace today the strange steps of my obsession? There were times of our being together
when I would have been ready to swear that, literally, in my presence, but with my direct sense
of it closed, they had visitors who were known and were welcome. Then it was that, had I not
been deterred by the very chance that such an injury might prove greater than the injury to
be averted, my exultation would have broken out. "They're here, they're here, you little wretches,"
I would have cried, "and you can't deny it now!" The little wretches denied it with all the
added volume of their sociability and their tenderness, in just the crystal depths of which--like
the flash of a fish in a stream--the mockery of their advantage peeped up. The shock, in truth,
had sunk into me still deeper than I knew on the night when, looking out to see either Quint
or Miss Jessel under the stars, I had beheld the boy over whose rest I watched and who had
immediately brought in with him--had straightway, there, turned it on me--the lovely upward
look with which, from the battlements above me, the hideous apparition of Quint had played.
If it was a question of a scare, my discovery on this occasion had scared me more than any
other, and it was in the condition of nerves produced by it that I made my actual inductions.
They harassed me so that sometimes, at odd moments, I shut myself up audibly to rehearse--it
was at once a fantastic relief and a renewed despair--the manner in which I might come to the
point. I approached it from one side and the other while, in my room, I flung myself about,
but I always broke down in the monstrous utterance of names. As they died away on my lips,
I said to myself that I should indeed help them to represent something infamous, if, by pronouncing
them, I should violate as rare a little case of instinctive delicacy as any schoolroom, probably,
had ever known. When I said to myself: "THEY have the manners to be silent, and you, trusted
as you are, the baseness to speak!" I felt myself crimson and I covered my face with my hands.
After these secret scenes I chattered more than ever, going on volubly enough till one of our
prodigious, palpable hushes occurred--I can call them nothing else--the strange, dizzy lift
or swim (I try for terms!) into a stillness, a pause of all life, that had nothing to do with
the more or less noise that at the moment we might be engaged in making and that I could hear
through any deepened exhilaration or quickened recitation or louder strum of the piano. Then
it was that the others, the outsiders, were there. Though they were not angels, they "passed,"
as the French say, causing me, while they stayed, to tremble with the fear of their addressing
to their younger victims some yet more infernal message or more vivid image than they had thought
good enough for myself.

What it was most impossible to get rid of was the cruel idea that, whatever I had seen, Miles
and Flora saw MORE--things terrible and unguessable and that sprang from dreadful passages
of intercourse in the past. Such things naturally left on the surface, for the time, a chill
which we vociferously denied that we felt; and we had, all three, with repetition, got into
such splendid training that we went, each time, almost automatically, to mark the close of
the incident, through the very same movements. It was striking of the children, at all events,
to kiss me inveterately with a kind of wild irrelevance and never to fail--one or the other--of
the precious question that had helped us through many a peril. "When do you think he WILL come?
Don't you think we OUGHT to write?"--there was nothing like that inquiry, we found by experience,
for carrying off an awkwardness. "He" of course was their uncle in Harley Street; and we lived
in much profusion of theory that he might at any moment arrive to mingle in our circle. It
was impossible to have given less encouragement than he had done to such a doctrine, but if
we had not had the doctrine to fall back upon we should have deprived each other of some of
our finest exhibitions. He never wrote to them--that may have been selfish, but it was a part
of the flattery of his trust of me; for the way in which a man pays his highest tribute to
a woman is apt to be but by the more festal celebration of one of the sacred laws of his comfort;
and I held that I carried out the spirit of the pledge given not to appeal to him when I let
my charges understand that their own letters were but charming literary exercises. They were
too beautiful to be posted; I kept them myself; I have them all to this hour. This was a rule
indeed which only added to the satiric effect of my being plied with the supposition that he
might at any moment be among us. It was exactly as if my charges knew how almost more awkward
than anything else that might be for me. There appears to me, moreover, as I look back, no
note in all this more extraordinary than the mere fact that, in spite of my tension and of
their triumph, I never lost patience with them. Adorable they must in truth have been, I now
reflect, that I didn't in these days hate them! Would exasperation, however, if relief had
longer been postponed, finally have betrayed me? It little matters, for relief arrived. I call
it relief, though it was only the relief that a snap brings to a strain or the burst of a thunderstorm
to a day of suffocation. It was at least change, and it came with a rush.

XIV

Walking to church a certain Sunday morning, I had little Miles at my side and his sister, in
advance of us and at Mrs. Grose's, well in sight. It was a crisp, clear day, the first of its
order for some time; the night had brought a touch of frost, and the autumn air, bright and
sharp, made the church bells almost gay. It was an odd accident of thought that I should have
happened at such a moment to be particularly and very gratefully struck with the obedience
of my little charges. Why did they never resent my inexorable, my perpetual society? Something
or other had brought nearer home to me that I had all but pinned the boy to my shawl and that,
in the way our companions were marshaled before me, I might have appeared to provide against
some danger of rebellion. I was like a gaoler with an eye to possible surprises and escapes.
But all this belonged--I mean their magnificent little surrender--just to the special array
of the facts that were most abysmal. Turned out for Sunday by his uncle's tailor, who had had
a free hand and a notion of pretty waistcoats and of his grand little air, Miles's whole title
to independence, the rights of his sex and situation, were so stamped upon him that if he had
suddenly struck for freedom I should have had nothing to say. I was by the strangest of chances
wondering how I should meet him when the revolution unmistakably occurred. I call it a revolution
because I now see how, with the word he spoke, the curtain rose on the last act of my dreadful
drama, and the catastrophe was precipitated. "Look here, my dear, you know," he charmingly
said, "when in the world, please, am I going back to school?"

Transcribed here the speech sounds harmless enough, particularly as uttered in the sweet, high,
casual pipe with which, at all interlocutors, but above all at his eternal governess, he threw
off intonations as if he were tossing roses. There was something in them that always made one
"catch," and I caught, at any rate, now so effectually that I stopped as short as if one of
the trees of the park had fallen across the road. There was something new, on the spot, between
us, and he was perfectly aware that I recognized it, though, to enable me to do so, he had
no need to look a whit less candid and charming than usual. I could feel in him how he already,
from my at first finding nothing to reply, perceived the advantage he had gained. I was so
slow to find anything that he had plenty of time, after a minute, to continue with his suggestive
but inconclusive smile: "You know, my dear, that for a fellow to be with a lady ALWAYS--!"
His "my dear" was constantly on his lips for me, and nothing could have expressed more the
exact shade of the sentiment with which I desired to inspire my pupils than its fond familiarity.
It was so respectfully easy.

But, oh, how I felt that at present I must pick my own phrases! I remember that, to gain time,
I tried to laugh, and I seemed to see in the beautiful face with which he watched me how ugly
and queer I looked. "And always with the same lady?" I returned.

He neither blanched nor winked. The whole thing was virtually out between us. "Ah, of course,
she's a jolly, 'perfect' lady; but, after all, I'm a fellow, don't you see? that's--well, getting
on."

I lingered there with him an instant ever so kindly. "Yes, you're getting on." Oh, but I felt
helpless!

I have kept to this day the heartbreaking little idea of how he seemed to know that and to
play with it. "And you can't say I've not been awfully good, can you?"

I laid my hand on his shoulder, for, though I felt how much better it would have been to walk
on, I was not yet quite able. "No, I can't say that, Miles."

"Except just that one night, you know--!"

"That one night?" I couldn't look as straight as he.

"Why, when I went down--went out of the house."

"Oh, yes. But I forget what you did it for."

"You forget?"--he spoke with the sweet extravagance of childish reproach. "Why, it was to show
you I could!"

"Oh, yes, you could."

"And I can again."

I felt that I might, perhaps, after all, succeed in keeping my wits about me. "Certainly. But
you won't."

"No, not THAT again. It was nothing."

"It was nothing," I said. "But we must go on."

He resumed our walk with me, passing his hand into my arm. "Then when AM I going back?"

I wore, in turning it over, my most responsible air. "Were you very happy at school?"

He just considered. "Oh, I'm happy enough anywhere!"

"Well, then," I quavered, "if you're just as happy here--!"

"Ah, but that isn't everything! Of course YOU know a lot--"

"But you hint that you know almost as much?" I risked as he paused.

"Not half I want to!" Miles honestly professed. "But it isn't so much that."

"What is it, then?"

"Well--I want to see more life."

"I see; I see." We had arrived within sight of the church and of various persons, including
several of the household of Bly, on their way to it and clustered about the door to see us
go in. I quickened our step; I wanted to get there before the question between us opened up
much further; I reflected hungrily that, for more than an hour, he would have to be silent;
and I thought with envy of the comparative dusk of the pew and of the almost spiritual help
of the hassock on which I might bend my knees. I seemed literally to be running a race with
some confusion to which he was about to reduce me, but I felt that he had got in first when,
before we had even entered the churchyard, he threw out--

"I want my own sort!"

It literally made me bound forward. "There are not many of your own sort, Miles!" I laughed.
"Unless perhaps dear little Flora!"

"You really compare me to a baby girl?"

This found me singularly weak. "Don't you, then, LOVE our sweet Flora?"

"If I didn't--and you, too; if I didn't--!" he repeated as if retreating for a jump, yet leaving
his thought so unfinished that, after we had come into the gate, another stop, which he imposed
on me by the pressure of his arm, had become inevitable. Mrs. Grose and Flora had passed into
the church, the other worshippers had followed, and we were, for the minute, alone among the
old, thick graves. We had paused, on the path from the gate, by a low, oblong, tablelike tomb.

"Yes, if you didn't--?"

He looked, while I waited, at the graves. "Well, you know what!" §. III.

EMPLOYEES.

Taking the trouble to compare the salaries of employees that existed in
the Philippines in 1820, which now exist, of course it will have doubled
or perhaps tripled, but so is most Espedito and current during business,
so the workforce must be reduced to the purely accurate and necessary,
and since then cease that hotbed of them, which under the dictate
of pensioners with three hundred pesos a year, have been sent there
to await placement to Even many who should be learning what they care
..... know, but not so imajinarios obtar jobs to the issuing of their placement
for those countries, which have taxed the public treasury, not help you
in long time who come to exploit. Add to this that after a job cow is provided
in the Peninsula, the most often without attention to scale, merits and
services, and anyone know the disappointment that this must cause,
and how badly served are the jobs , until time and experience taught
the new graceful as when there were ignored.

It could cite examples, but this would be my intention to leave and hurt
people in no way is my intention to belittle anything of his character
and concept. I agree it is a prerogative of the supreme government provision
of jobs, but those of pure grace, such as heads, but this government,
so that the epithet that gives you just be real and effective, it
seems that sometimes, not all, should see the level of employees,
despite the services of each one, and that its greatest merit, ability,
knowledge and highest category is the rise, pass it, only means entering
noble emulation among employees all kinds, the administration is conferred
to the most deserving in every respect, and revenues were well managed
and directed, and got the building that are susceptible as in the
Philippines until the day it can be said that this estate is in its
infancy, or emerging is one thing that goes through routines and ancient,
and is modified only by the greatest number of hands that now occupies.

On the other hand, the abundance of workers as unnecessary and charged to
the Treasury, are other damages of not less consideration: such are
the mass of unemployed Jente so little conducive to the public peace,
which always exist in all offices escedentes, aggregates and supernumeraries
for a vacancy occurs, there whom repositioning percent effective,
with noticeable damage on the scale and of the worthy sons of the
Spanish, who are also creditors to attend to them according to their
ability and merit and background of their parents, as demanded by
principles of political, public convenience and rigorous justice:
and finally, in this part is been said that if the administration
of public finances must have the proper order to be observed and the
potential savings, much more in these days of scarcity and hardship
so heavy in the state, neither will be achieved by increasing employees
every day, always unnecessary, and having an excess number of aggregates,
which affect the scale on the number, amount of body absorbs annually
for the salaries they enjoy.

Another reform in this part and not least it should not Some pensions
are granted in the Peninsula, due from banks in the Philippines and
the withdrawal of the granted: something there is already ahead on this, but
not everything should be. It is good that the viudedades, retirement
and pensions who have served and died in the Philippines as it is right
to be paid for their boxes, but these people, if they come to Spain, in
justice should come with them their pensions, with the corresponding
lower the difference in value of the currency. It seems a trifle, is
the first step in establishing the economies to be made at the Exchequer;
economies demanded by circumstances, which of them will be cut old abuses
introduced into this part. The decrease of employment for purely accurate
and necessary, is another cardinal based economic reforms and, if
considered in its true value the sacrifices that people make when they
contribute their sweat to pay the charges state, then to reduce these
as much as possible, ease the burdens of the people, and enrich nation.

§. IV. OF CONTRIBUTIONS. The tax or personal contribution of the Indians,
though very moderate, not in any sense can be increased without exposing
the government to grave evils, because it is infinite the number of poor
Indians, or just earning for their livelihood, to this part to numerous
serious who aflijiria a surcharge of contribution: later, and when
he has given some impetus and encouragement to the class of owners
as the property is divided into many hands, it is desirable to increase
the tax it pays now much inequality, Guild for laborers and artisans.
Payment of this contribution is usually made in kind and in cash, or
both, and this brings to substantial damage and severity, so the
quantity and quality of what you get, as in costs and damage to transportation
and storage. A bill to compensate of the Manila offices of Finance
on this genera of operations, said the Government had proved to be
safe to make a determination at this point, but anyway they should
be the principle that when government employees perform such traffic in
genera of free trade, that always loses, because their agents are
bad managers, who lack the calculation and knowledge of market prices
and other circumstances attending and always attend private traders
in their own businesses. shall not be denied that so the governors
in their provinces as Barangay heads in the towns immediately who
collected tribute from the Indians, something has influenced the need
to switch the payment of tribute money to sort, to make each other
better business, but in my opinion this is not only the cause that
has introduced such a collection system injurious to all, because
the Indian is not so dumb or innocent to cease selling the products
of their agriculture, to whom is the highest price paid in The tariff,
under which he received in kind by the heads and governors.

The main reason that has made it almost necessary and indispensable
this commutation, and that directly work to the detriment of course
Indian, and something against the public treasury is the lack of a colonial
currency and peculiar only to the Philippines, as do all other European
possessions in Asia, whose needs, as well as the benefits of all kinds
would bring, will be discussed in a separate paragraph, as it deserves.

This vivificaria internal trade, facilitate the payment of tribute,
and would encourage other indirect contributions established. The indirect
contributions by stagnant incomes in the Philippines, are most analogous
to the nature of some people, who generously provided fertile ground
for his all necessary means to their food, become objects of enjoyments
superfluous necessities to life.

It must, therefore, a constant maximum promote good governance and rectify the administration of
these indirect contributions, especially that of snuff, and wine, not only because they alone are sufficient
to cover thoroughly all state charges in all branches, but because
in the case of a war and total lack of trade, the Government will
this strong support of its existence, and not to give ear to the sujestiones
and proposals of those who in good or bad faith, or at least ignorance
of the work for free tight to the islands.

Ultimately, it is noted that these contributions are not interim jeneralicen all provinces of the archipelago
under the Spanish rule, so as to extinguish the focus of much smuggling always resides in the provinces
exempt, and to take necessary reforms for better administration and development, products in the
Exchequer to be grossly disproportionate to the consumption of large
population of the islands, as can be inferred and known by what they
say then trying to snuff on the income of Philippines.

§.

V. INCOME OF SNUFF.

The income that keeps the islands, which can not be subrogated to another, and that well established
and managed would produce incalculable benefits and income is the income of snuff. Three and
a half million inhabitants, all without exception of sex or age of snuff consumers, each of
which matched the classes and a very low estimate, you can use regular four pesos per person
per year, would produce a tax fourteen million dollars, which would
derive from the earth and the arts to give the same time a large trade
promotion.

This calculation is not a paradox, is a practical reality and truth, for the use of snuff is as
necessities for the Indians, who may object to this form the same calculation would be formed on
the consumption of bread in Spain, or on other items of need if any. The snuff of the Philippines
for their quality, and according to the taste and consumer opinion and foreign nationals, took first
place, after Havana, among all types of tobacco grown in Asia and America, and the price advantage
Manila snuff that keeps constantly in the markets of India, China, Batavia, Mariana Islands, Cape of
Good Hope and other points, on all other sources, justifies this concept, as well as the grown
more rights than of these customs have recharged. So also offered its special quality that plant,
a vast and important article of commerce.

However, an indication of the causes that prevent getting the benefits nswers as tight and as a
branch of branch trade. The establishment of this income in some provinces of the islands and not
others, especially in overseas, on the island of Luzon, three kinds
of causes serious damage. 1st The fact that the treasury of the contribution
of the tobacco-free villages, which also maintains a privilege and unjust
inequality condition between subjects of a government. 2nd The lack
of consumption in the provinces of the tobacco smuggling causes abundant
provinces are exempt in favor of the easy transportation by sea and the
extent of the unpopulated shores of the island of Luzon, which favors
both landings.

And 3rd Increased spending much of fruitless in the protection of sea makes the rent. These injuries
are so obvious, that being in the day subject to tight a little less than half of that population in
the Philippines, only produces income fourth or fifth of what a reasonable estimate was to produce.
There are plans in the past that tight spread abroad to all the provinces
of the archipelago, but has not been carried into effect, because
the authorities considered that the products of several islands not
offset the expenses of administration and stewardship of the sector,
but this calculation is very wrong, because in addition to the lack
of products is a bad passenger in the early years of establishment
of the watertight and until these are not regularized, the only planting
ban snuff freely on the islands exempt until today, the focus of great
estinguiria smuggling is done in the provinces of Luzon Island, and
this alone would increase at least double the consumption of it watertight.
real and effective Advantage large and generals, which had to precede
the petty savings vain fears or ill-considered calculations have been
presented. perjudicialísima Another cause is the consumption of snuff
in the Philippines which is the lack of intelligence, solemnity and
impartiality with which it comes in gauging receipt of the leaf growers
for rent.

An important event, which depends on that income is used or lost hundreds of thousands of dollars, is committed
to private appraisers, who call themselves experts, and employees
in the stationary countries in the fields, and related to the growers
on this point do what they want, whether it be that this function
is oríjen of fraud and bribery. snuff defects in a country of General-use
are well known to the public, and because they are known, it is because
you can not retract your purchase, and prefers bad bad for the smuggling,
which is always cheaper.

The complaint, therefore, with reason that in that act left to the flumes, there is rather
a lack impartiality and good faith, that of intelligence, and thus be remedied abuses in the receipt
of the leaf snuff, naming each year, and at the time of need, new employees from another area,
which expresses pass commission from Manila to the provinces to the recognition and receipt of the blade,
and as illustration and intelligent can discover and destroy all the arts and intrigues that are used
in these cases, and save the salaries of three hundred dollars per annum given to the graduate
students flumes, created few years ago to provide training on the position of flumes, serve the
case to the rent if necessary, but this measure alone does not fill the object in the manner
prescribed, because they live among the growers, are with them in
close relationships, and thus can not be achieved in order to try
to avoid fraud, besides that can save the weights that are invested
in their salaries.

Considered as a branch of trade snuff in the Philippines, we can say
that until my departure from the Islands did not have to Spendius
and promotion. In India, China, Batavia and other parts of Asia and America,
is pure luxury consumable item for a few, and the amounts are so little
strategic consideration, the income Manila has been provided without
prejudice to its consumption in the provinces, or their stockpiles
increased for that reason nothing. General-The Spain consuming almost
unique in that paper, the Philippine Islands to provide the advantages
of large branch of commerce, to navigation merchant an exercise promotion
and profit, the treasury and the nation in considerable savings for
the amounts that go to foreign and consumer satisfaction to improve
in his inclinations object, because it is undesirable that a snuff
ever pure, soft and aromatic, like the Philippines, recognized by
all nations so that they have liked, cease to be preferred Spain,
which is consumed by a foreign generals, who hardly can take it to
another party if jeneraliza in Manila.

The snuff, as in the food, there is some national taste.

Chinese, Malayalam, Malay, preferred the use of snuff for their crops,
thinking to every one of them detestable the snuff of the other.

In Spain there is no harvest, the taste has been formed by habit and necessity, and by these means
can be varied and even better, because there is no doubt that the snuff of Manila, as exceding
plant in good quality to many of its kind, and everything else is fancy, illusion or prevention.
All markets of Spain and some other European nations were reluctant at first to sugar in the Philippines,
for the novelty of their smell and their grain, and then the knowledge that their essential
advantages outweigh its accidental qualities have made him a General-use and desired, and is
day one of the main fruit in their wealth. The Philippines snuff grows everywhere, and the production
of this branch of agriculture is indefinite, and at prices lower than those that are harvested
in other countries. The voyage, though long, is well known and coveted by trade. exceding Freight can
not weighing per quarter, which is evidenced by the pipes made up
here, so are naturally set the elements a large branch of trade between
the Philippines and Spain, without warning on this point the need
for further caution that the road is precisely Manila snuff driven
into leaded and sealed boxes, and is transported tea from China ,
to order not to dissipate the scent or lessen its force, as happens
in Havana and another in the voyages.

Of all exposed on this income, reforms and bases for promotion, agriculture and trade Government
should adopt, it seems are more suitable as: 1a which extends the monopoly
of snuff in the Philippines to all the provinces free from him, without
any exception, using the means that government leniency with soft,
which made the conquest and acquisition of those lands, and never,
or very rare case, the authority or force, but arrived this case, with
all Enerji must enforce its provisions and mandates.
 You can't, you can't!"--he lay beautifully staring. "My uncle must
come down, and you must completely settle things."

"If we do," I returned with some spirit, "you may be sure it will be to take you quite away."

"Well, don't you understand that that's exactly what I'm working for? You'll have to tell him--about
the way you've let it all drop: you'll have to tell him a tremendous lot!"

The exultation with which he uttered this helped me somehow, for the instant, to meet him rather
more. "And how much will YOU, Miles, have to tell him? There are things he'll ask you!"

He turned it over. "Very likely. But what things?"

"The things you've never told me. To make up his mind what to do with you. He can't send you
back--"

"Oh, I don't want to go back!" he broke in. "I want a new field."

He said it with admirable serenity, with positive unimpeachable gaiety; and doubtless it was
that very note that most evoked for me the poignancy, the unnatural childish tragedy, of his
probable reappearance at the end of three months with all this bravado and still more dishonor.
It overwhelmed me now that I should never be able to bear that, and it made me let myself go.
I threw myself upon him and in the tenderness of my pity I embraced him. "Dear little Miles,
dear little Miles--!"

My face was close to his, and he let me kiss him, simply taking it with indulgent good humor.
"Well, old lady?"

"Is there nothing--nothing at all that you want to tell me?"

He turned off a little, facing round toward the wall and holding up his hand to look at as
one had seen sick children look. "I've told you--I told you this morning."

Oh, I was sorry for him! "That you just want me not to worry you?"

He looked round at me now, as if in recognition of my understanding him; then ever so gently,
"To let me alone," he replied.

There was even a singular little dignity in it, something that made me release him, yet, when
I had slowly risen, linger beside him. God knows I never wished to harass him, but I felt that
merely, at this, to turn my back on him was to abandon or, to put it more truly, to lose him.
"I've just begun a letter to your uncle," I said.

"Well, then, finish it!"

I waited a minute. "What happened before?"

He gazed up at me again. "Before what?"

"Before you came back. And before you went away."

For some time he was silent, but he continued to meet my eyes. "What happened?"

It made me, the sound of the words, in which it seemed to me that I caught for the very first
time a small faint quaver of consenting consciousness--it made me drop on my knees beside the
bed and seize once more the chance of possessing him. "Dear little Miles, dear little Miles,
if you KNEW how I want to help you! It's only that, it's nothing but that, and I'd rather die
than give you a pain or do you a wrong--I'd rather die than hurt a hair of you. Dear little
Miles"--oh, I brought it out now even if I SHOULD go too far--"I just want you to help me to
save you!" But I knew in a moment after this that I had gone too far. The answer to my appeal
was instantaneous, but it came in the form of an extraordinary blast and chill, a gust of frozen
air, and a shake of the room as great as if, in the wild wind, the casement had crashed in.
The boy gave a loud, high shriek, which, lost in the rest of the shock of sound, might have
seemed, indistinctly, though I was so close to him, a note either of jubilation or of terror.
I jumped to my feet again and was conscious of darkness. So for a moment we remained, while
I stared about me and saw that the drawn curtains were unstirred and the window tight. "Why,
the candle's out!" I then cried.

"It was I who blew it, dear!" said Miles.

XVIII

The next day, after lessons, Mrs. Grose found a moment to say to me quietly: "Have you written,
miss?"

"Yes--I've written." But I didn't add--for the hour--that my letter, sealed and directed, was
still in my pocket. There would be time enough to send it before the messenger should go to
the village. Meanwhile there had been, on the part of my pupils, no more brilliant, more exemplary
morning. It was exactly as if they had both had at heart to gloss over any recent little friction.
They performed the dizziest feats of arithmetic, soaring quite out of MY feeble range, and
perpetrated, in higher spirits than ever, geographical and historical jokes. It was conspicuous
of course in Miles in particular that he appeared to wish to show how easily he could let me
down. This child, to my memory, really lives in a setting of beauty and misery that no words
can translate; there was a distinction all his own in every impulse he revealed; never was
a small natural creature, to the uninitiated eye all frankness and freedom, a more ingenious,
a more extraordinary little gentleman. I had perpetually to guard against the wonder of contemplation
into which my initiated view betrayed me; to check the irrelevant gaze and discouraged sigh
in which I constantly both attacked and renounced the enigma of what such a little gentleman
could have done that deserved a penalty. Say that, by the dark prodigy I knew, the imagination
of all evil HAD been opened up to him: all the justice within me ached for the proof that it
could ever have flowered into an act.

He had never, at any rate, been such a little gentleman as when, after our early dinner on
this dreadful day, he came round to me and asked if I shouldn't like him, for half an hour,
to play to me. David playing to Saul could never have shown a finer sense of the occasion.
It was literally a charming exhibition of tact, of magnanimity, and quite tantamount to his
saying outright: "The true knights we love to read about never push an advantage too far. I
know what you mean now: you mean that--to be let alone yourself and not followed up--you'll
cease to worry and spy upon me, won't keep me so close to you, will let me go and come. Well,
I 'come,' you see--but I don't go! There'll be plenty of time for that. I do really delight
in your society, and I only want to show you that I contended for a principle." It may be imagined
whether I resisted this appeal or failed to accompany him again, hand in hand, to the schoolroom.
He sat down at the old piano and played as he had never played; and if there are those who
think he had better have been kicking a football I can only say that I wholly agree with them.
For at the end of a time that under his influence I had quite ceased to measure, I started
up with a strange sense of having literally slept at my post. It was after luncheon, and by
the schoolroom fire, and yet I hadn't really, in the least, slept: I had only done something
much worse--I had forgotten. Where, all this time, was Flora? When I put the question to Miles,
he played on a minute before answering and then could only say: "Why, my dear, how do I know?"--breaking
moreover into a happy laugh which, immediately after, as if it were a vocal accompaniment,
he prolonged into incoherent, extravagant song.

I went straight to my room, but his sister was not there; then, before going downstairs, I
looked into several others. As she was nowhere about she would surely be with Mrs. Grose, whom,
in the comfort of that theory, I accordingly proceeded in quest of. I found her where I had
found her the evening before, but she met my quick challenge with blank, scared ignorance.
She had only supposed that, after the repast, I had carried off both the children; as to which
she was quite in her right, for it was the very first time I had allowed the little girl out
of my sight without some special provision. Of course now indeed she might be with the maids,
so that the immediate thing was to look for her without an air of alarm. This we promptly arranged
between us; but when, ten minutes later and in pursuance of our arrangement, we met in the
hall, it was only to report on either side that after guarded inquiries we had altogether failed
to trace her. For a minute there, apart from observation, we exchanged mute alarms, and I could
feel with what high interest my friend returned me all those I had from the first given her.

"She'll be above," she presently said--"in one of the rooms you haven't searched."

"No; she's at a distance." I had made up my mind. "She has gone out."

Mrs. Grose stared. "Without a hat?"

I naturally also looked volumes. "Isn't that woman always without one?"

"She's with HER?"

"She's with HER!" I declared. "We must find them."

My hand was on my friend's arm, but she failed for the moment, confronted with such an account
of the matter, to respond to my pressure. She communed, on the contrary, on the spot, with
her uneasiness. "And where's Master Miles?"

"Oh, HE'S with Quint. They're in the schoolroom."

"Lord, miss!" My view, I was myself aware--and therefore I suppose my tone--had never yet reached
so calm an assurance.

"The trick's played," I went on; "they've successfully worked their plan. He found the most
divine little way to keep me quiet while she went off."

"'Divine'?" Mrs. Grose bewilderedly echoed.

"Infernal, then!" I almost cheerfully rejoined. "He has provided for himself as well. But come!"

She had helplessly gloomed at the upper regions. "You leave him--?"

"So long with Quint? Yes--I don't mind that now."

She always ended, at these moments, by getting possession of my hand, and in this manner she
could at present still stay me. But after gasping an instant at my sudden resignation, "Because
of your letter?" she eagerly brought out.

I quickly, by way of answer, felt for my letter, drew it forth, held it up, and then, freeing
myself, went and laid it on the great hall table. "Luke will take it," I said as I came back.
I reached the house door and opened it; I was already on the steps.

My companion still demurred: the storm of the night and the early morning had dropped, but
the afternoon was damp and gray. I came down to the drive while she stood in the doorway. "You
go with nothing on?"

"What do I care when the child has nothing? I can't wait to dress," I cried, "and if you must
do so, I leave you. Try meanwhile, yourself, upstairs."

"With THEM?" Oh, on this, the poor woman promptly joined me!

XIX

We went straight to the lake, as it was called at Bly, and I daresay rightly called, though
I reflect that it may in fact have been a sheet of water less remarkable than it appeared to
my untraveled eyes. My acquaintance with sheets of water was small, and the pool of Bly, at
all events on the few occasions of my consenting, under the protection of my pupils, to affront
its surface in the old flat-bottomed boat moored there for our use, had impressed me both with
its extent and its agitation. The usual place of embarkation was half a mile from the house,
but I had an intimate conviction that, wherever Flora might be, she was not near home. She
had not given me the slip for any small adventure, and, since the day of the very great one
that I had shared with her by the pond, I had been aware, in our walks, of the quarter to which
she most inclined. This was why I had now given to Mrs. Grose's steps so marked a direction--a
direction that made her, when she perceived it, oppose a resistance that showed me she was
freshly mystified. "You're going to the water, Miss?--you think she's IN--?"

"She may be, though the depth is, I believe, nowhere very great. But what I judge most likely
is that she's on the spot from which, the other day, we saw together what I told you."

"When she pretended not to see--?"

"With that astounding self-possession? I've always been sure she wanted to go back alone. And
now her brother has managed it for her."

Mrs. Grose still stood where she had stopped. "You suppose they really TALK of them?"

"I could meet this with a confidence! They say things that, if we heard them, would simply
appall us."

"And if she IS there--"

"Yes?"

"Then Miss Jessel is?"

"Beyond a doubt. You shall see."

"Oh, thank you!" my friend cried, planted so firm that, taking it in, I went straight on without
her. By the time I reached the pool, however, she was close behind me, and I knew that, whatever,
to her apprehension, might befall me, the exposure of my society struck her as her least danger.
She exhaled a moan of relief as we at last came in sight of the greater part of the water without
a sight of the child. There was no trace of Flora on that nearer side of the bank where my
observation of her had been most startling, and none on the opposite edge, where, save for
a margin of some twenty yards, a thick copse came down to the water. The pond, oblong in shape,
had a width so scant compared to its length that, with its ends out of view, it might have
been taken for a scant river. We looked at the empty expanse, and then I felt the suggestion
of my friend's eyes. I knew what she meant and I replied with a negative headshake.

"No, no; wait! She has taken the boat."

My companion stared at the vacant mooring place and then again across the lake. "Then where is it?"

"Our not seeing it is the strongest of proofs. She has used it to go over, and then has managed
to hide it."

"All alone--that child?"

"She's not alone, and at such times she's not a child: she's an old, old woman." I scanned
all the visible shore while Mrs. Grose took again, into the queer element I offered her, one
of her plunges of submission; then I pointed out that the boat might perfectly be in a small
refuge formed by one of the recesses of the pool, an indentation masked, for the hither side,
by a projection of the bank and by a clump of trees growing close to the water.

"But if the boat's there, where on earth's SHE?" my colleague anxiously asked.

"That's exactly what we must learn." And I started to walk further.

"By going all the way round?"

"Certainly, far as it is. It will take us but ten minutes, but it's far enough to have made
the child prefer not to walk. She went straight over."

"Laws!" cried my friend again; the chain of my logic was ever too much for her. It dragged
her at my heels even now, and when we had got halfway round--a devious, tiresome process, on
ground much broken and by a path choked with overgrowth--I paused to give her breath. I sustained
her with a grateful arm, assuring her that she might hugely help me; and this started us afresh,
so that in the course of but few minutes more we reached a point from which we found the boat
to be where I had supposed it. It had been intentionally left as much as possible out of sight
and was tied to one of the stakes of a fence that came, just there, down to the brink and that
had been an assistance to disembarking. I recognized, as I looked at the pair of short, thick
oars, quite safely drawn up, the prodigious character of the feat for a little girl; but I
had lived, by this time, too long among wonders and had panted to too many livelier measures.
There was a gate in the fence, through which we passed, and that brought us, after a trifling
interval, more into the open. Then, "There she is!" we both exclaimed at once.

Flora, a short way off, stood before us on the grass and smiled as if her performance was now
complete. The next thing she did, however, was to stoop straight down and pluck--quite as if
it were all she was there for--a big, ugly spray of withered fern. I instantly became sure
she had just come out of the copse. She waited for us, not herself taking a step, and I was
conscious of the rare solemnity with which we presently approached her. She smiled and smiled,
and we met; but it was all done in a silence by this time flagrantly ominous. Mrs. Grose was
the first to break the spell: she threw herself on her knees and, drawing the child to her
breast, clasped in a long embrace the little tender, yielding body. While this dumb convulsion
lasted I could only watch it--which I did the more intently when I saw Flora's face peep at
me over our companion's shoulder. It was serious now--the flicker had left it; but it strengthened
the pang with which I at that moment envied Mrs. Grose the simplicity of HER relation. Still,
all this while, nothing more passed between us save that Flora had let her foolish fern again
drop to the ground. What she and I had virtually said to each other was that pretexts were
useless now. When Mrs. Grose finally got up she kept the child's hand, so that the two were
still before me; and the singular reticence of our communion was even more marked in the frank
look she launched me. "I'll be hanged," it said, "if I'll speak!"

It was Flora who, gazing all over me in candid wonder, was the first. She was struck with our
bareheaded aspect. "Why, where are your things?"

"Where yours are, my dear!" I promptly returned.

She had already got back her gaiety, and appeared to take this as an answer quite sufficient.
"And where's Miles?" she went on.

There was something in the small valor of it that quite finished me: these three words from
her were, in a flash like the glitter of a drawn blade, the jostle of the cup that my hand,
for weeks and weeks, had held high and full to the brim that now, even before speaking, I felt
overflow in a deluge. "I'll tell you if you'll tell ME--" I heard myself say, then heard the
tremor in which it broke.

"Well, what?"

Mrs. Grose's suspense blazed at me, but it was too late now, and I brought the thing out handsomely.
"Where, my pet, is Miss Jessel?"

XX

Just as in the churchyard with Miles, the whole thing was upon us. Much as I had made of the
fact that this name had never once, between us, been sounded, the quick, smitten glare with
which the child's face now received it fairly likened my breach of the silence to the smash
of a pane of glass. It added to the interposing cry, as if to stay the blow, that Mrs. Grose,
at the same instant, uttered over my violence--the shriek of a creature scared, or rather wounded,
which, in turn, within a few seconds, was completed by a gasp of my own. I seized my colleague's
arm. "She's there, she's there!"

Miss Jessel stood before us on the opposite bank exactly as she had stood the other time, and
I remember, strangely, as the first feeling now produced in me, my thrill of joy at having
brought on a proof. She was there, and I was justified; she was there, and I was neither cruel
nor mad. She was there for poor scared Mrs. Grose, but she was there most for Flora; and no
moment of my monstrous time was perhaps so extraordinary as that in which I consciously threw
out to her--with the sense that, pale and ravenous demon as she was, she would catch and understand
it--an inarticulate message of gratitude. She rose erect on the spot my friend and I had lately
quitted, and there was not, in all the long reach of her desire, an inch of her evil that fell
short. This first vividness of vision and emotion were things of a few seconds, during which
Mrs. Grose's dazed blink across to where I pointed struck me as a sovereign sign that she too
at last saw, just as it carried my own eyes precipitately to the child. The revelation then
of the manner in which Flora was affected startled me, in truth, far more than it would have
done to find her also merely agitated, for direct dismay was of course not what I had expected.
Prepared and on her guard as our pursuit had actually made her, she would repress every betrayal;
and I was therefore shaken, on the spot, by my first glimpse of the particular one for which
I had not allowed. To see her, without a convulsion of her small pink face, not even feign
to glance in the direction of the prodigy I announced, but only, instead of that, turn at ME
an expression of hard, still gravity, an expression absolutely new and unprecedented and that
appeared to read and accuse and judge me--this was a stroke that somehow converted the little
girl herself into the very presence that could make me quail. I quailed even though my certitude
that she thoroughly saw was never greater than at that instant, and in the immediate need to
defend myself I called it passionately to witness. "She's there, you little unhappy thing--there,
there, THERE, and you see her as well as you see me!" I had said shortly before to Mrs. Grose
that she was not at these times a child, but an old, old woman, and that description of her
could not have been more strikingly confirmed than in the way in which, for all answer to this,
she simply showed me, without a concession, an admission, of her eyes, a countenance of deeper
and deeper, of indeed suddenly quite fixed, reprobation. I was by this time--if I can put the
whole thing at all together--more appalled at what I may properly call her manner than at anything
else, though it was simultaneously with this that I became aware of having Mrs. Grose also,
and very formidably, to reckon with. My elder companion, the next moment, at any rate, blotted
out everything but her own flushed face and her loud, shocked protest, a burst of high disapproval.
"What a dreadful turn, to be sure, miss! Where on earth do you see anything?"

I could only grasp her more quickly yet, for even while she spoke the hideous plain presence
stood undimmed and undaunted. It had already lasted a minute, and it lasted while I continued,
seizing my colleague, quite thrusting her at it and presenting her to it, to insist with my
pointing hand. "You don't see her exactly as WE see?--you mean to say you don't now--NOW? She's
as big as a blazing fire! Only look, dearest woman, LOOK--!" She looked, even as I did, and
gave me, with her deep groan of negation, repulsion, compassion--the mixture with her pity
of her relief at her exemption--a sense, touching to me even then, that she would have backed
me up if she could. I might well have needed that, for with this hard blow of the proof that
her eyes were hopelessly sealed I felt my own situation horribly crumble, I felt--I saw--my
livid predecessor press, from her position, on my defeat, and I was conscious, more than all,
of what I should have from this instant to deal with in the astounding little attitude of Flora.
Into this attitude Mrs. Grose immediately and violently entered, breaking, even while there
pierced through my sense of ruin a prodigious private triumph, into breathless reassurance.

"She isn't there, little lady, and nobody's there--and you never see nothing, my sweet! How
can poor Miss Jessel--when poor Miss Jessel's dead and buried? WE know, don't we, love?"--and
she appealed, blundering in, to the child. "It's all a mere mistake and a worry and a joke--and
we'll go home as fast as we can!"

Our companion, on this, had responded with a strange, quick primness of propriety, and they
were again, with Mrs. Grose on her feet, united, as it were, in pained opposition to me. Flora
continued to fix me with her small mask of reprobation, and even at that minute I prayed God
to forgive me for seeming to see that, as she stood there holding tight to our friend's dress,
her incomparable childish beauty had suddenly failed, had quite vanished. I've said it already--she
was literally, she was hideously, hard; she had turned common and almost ugly. "I don't know
what you mean. I see nobody. I see nothing. I never HAVE. I think you're cruel. I don't like
you!" Then, after this deliverance, which might have been that of a vulgarly pert little girl
in the street, she hugged Mrs. Grose more closely and buried in her skirts the dreadful little
face. In this position she produced an almost furious wail. "Take me away, take me away--oh,
take me away from HER!"

"From ME?" I panted.

"From you--from you!" she cried.

Even Mrs. Grose looked across at me dismayed, while I had nothing to do but communicate again
with the figure that, on the opposite bank, without a movement, as rigidly still as if catching,
beyond the interval, our voices, was as vividly there for my disaster as it was not there for
my service. The wretched child had spoken exactly as if she had got from some outside source
each of her stabbing little words, and I could therefore, in the full despair of all I had
to accept, but sadly shake my head at her. "If I had ever doubted, all my doubt would at present
have gone. I've been living with the miserable truth, and now it has only too much closed round
me. Of course I've lost you: I've interfered, and you've seen--under HER dictation"--with which
I faced, over the pool again, our infernal witness--"the easy and perfect way to meet it. I've
done my best, but I've lost you. Goodbye." For Mrs. Grose I had an imperative, an almost frantic
"Go, go!" before which, in infinite distress, but mutely possessed of the little girl and clearly
convinced, in spite of her blindness, that something awful had occurred and some collapse engulfed
us, she retreated, by the way we had come, as fast as she could move.

Of what first happened when I was left alone I had no subsequent memory. I only knew that at
the end of, I suppose, a quarter of an hour, an odorous dampness and roughness, chilling and
piercing my trouble, had made me understand that I must have thrown myself, on my face, on
the ground and given way to a wildness of grief. I must have lain there long and cried and
sobbed, for when I raised my head the day was almost done. I got up and looked a moment, through
the twilight, at the gray pool and its blank, haunted edge, and then I took, back to the house,
my dreary and difficult course. When I reached the gate in the fence the boat, to my surprise,
was gone, so that I had a fresh reflection to make on Flora's extraordinary command of the
situation. She passed that night, by the most tacit, and I should add, were not the word so
grotesque a false note, the happiest of arrangements, with Mrs. Grose. I saw neither of them
on my return, but, on the other hand, as by an ambiguous compensation, I saw a great deal of
Miles. I saw--I can use no other phrase--so much of him that it was as if it were more than
it had ever been. No evening I had passed at Bly had the portentous quality of this one; in
spite of which--and in spite also of the deeper depths of consternation that had opened beneath
my feet--there was literally, in the ebbing actual, an extraordinarily sweet sadness. On reaching
the house I had never so much as looked for the boy; I had simply gone straight to my room
to change what I was wearing and to take in, at a glance, much material testimony to Flora's
rupture. Her little belongings had all been removed. When later, by the schoolroom fire, I
was served with tea by the usual maid, I indulged, on the article of my other pupil, in no
inquiry whatever. He had his freedom now--he might have it to the end! Well, he did have it;
and it consisted--in part at least--of his coming in at about eight o'clock and sitting down
with me in silence. On the removal of the tea things I had blown out the candles and drawn
my chair closer: I was conscious of a mortal coldness and felt as if I should never again be
warm. As the summary forms usually with many defects, court leave and return to Manila, and thence
to the province several times, until the assessor, the mayor and mayor correjidor or understand it,
that is usually very difficult and work, and always with the consequent
delay in proportion to the distance of the province. Meanwhile many
essential dilijencias are lost or become irreparable and useless
for the delay, as in the investigation of criminal acts that no progress
in dilijencias early, rarely come on later, is very rare to see a
summary inquest well-educated.

Declared finally defeated after difficulties, enough to proceed, courts are
without promoters prosecutors or defense counsel can ask the Because
each according to his ministry, and to every motion that inmates or
prisoners often presented the Indian defense, or any other incident
that occurs, discontinue the course and return to the consultant
when opportunity: lately, but in no bother the particular case where
sentence was pronounced with an advisor and the delays with everything
else, and given and published, it refers the case to the hearing,
where at the request of the prosecution tends to return to the province
to reform defects and even certain annulments, with which you can
not administer justice, or to practice some interesting dilijencia
was omitted, and still can be useful.

Now, the sight of this little story outline and as tiny as a cause criminal, is there anyone
who doubts it is defective and the substantiation of the heavy and slow that by necessity will
be the administration of justice? I think not, but if any doubt of this truth, can express their doubts,
which may be practically satisfied with enumeration of cases in which I myself have been a consultant,
not a single province, but several. There are few happier and civil litigation, although the
parties as directed by lawyers, and well supplied with their petitions (many I have made), seek
to turn and attack the ruminations of litigating in bad faith, do not
get it, and the reason is because they know that by asking the judge
to advise and stopped the business, and cars adviser to Manila Used
when: they are thus endless litigation in the first instance, because
they come from the province and to Manila many times and for many
has not issued one place, he knew very well it promoted what would
happen so; but in the meantime bothers your hand, and is in possession
of the thing Litiji, enjoys it and enjoy, and which has blessed: the
incalculable damage that is caused, so as it is so palpable that the
delay and large outlays for those who demand justice, and the ease
to hinder those who want to retain the foreign, therefore to this
natural obstacles in their favor, as has been said, and those derived
from the mayors and correjidores laymen, they could certainly disappear
if these destinations are served by lawyers, and as regular as it
sounds, and many evils would cease, as indicated.

§. IV. MAYORS OF MAJOR AND OTHER CORREJIDORES foreign concept CONSIDERED
IN THE BOUQUET OF JUSTICE. Hitherto only mentioned these employees as dependents
of the judiciary, may also be considered as heads of finance in the provinces,
and say some things about it that even if they seem monstrous, but
realities are not, because here refer only about things as they are,
without exaggeration, nor any other vice or defect. correjidores governors
and the Philippines, in addition to the judicial functions meet the
civilian government and defend the people, that is a mockery of our
political masters and commanders, generals, and the collection and
administration of the tax paid by Indians, Spendius of bulls and stamped
paper, or employees are the functions of finance, which is , collect,
manage and distribute, and over whose fault will talk to the finance
deal.

It is our purpose in what we now, suffice it to say that the provisions in municipal and adapted with
the three counts that embrace these uses of courts and government civil and finance, will only be made
to merchants, because those positions do not expect other remuneration,
promotion, award or reward that take advantage of his administration
and trade, and consequently their own interests and increasing their
Fortunately the only deals, and need the right away and conscientious
performance of their duties more major.

They enjoy strong twenty-five dollars a month when provided by the governor
of Manila, and fifty being Royal appointment [10], and pay the Treasury
a modest remuneration for the pardon, as there are called, to trade,
that is, license trade to address a judge, a political boss and a mayor,
as such may be called the mayors and correjidores in the Philippines
by the terms of employment. From the time they are appointed governors
or correjidores, buy your boat for trade or cabotage inside, and some
even to the exterior, they charge with effect from early exit in the
provinces to which they are intended: certainly involved in facilitating
their Spendius and pick products that send people to provide their
occupation to ship, cargo and taken to Manila, and this, as mentioned, is the
main attention and his first care. jiro Funds assets and engage in
trade after possessions, it must be said the meet in Manila to a conventional
interest to equipment and the rest of his output, which then pay
those who collected outside the public purse, and with the same following
his trade as long as you remain in office. A municipal system and
correct it was so monstrous and irregular but in principle some benefits
to the Islands, because in the midst of the great fault is on them
capitalists, many agricultural products and crafts of the provinces
had not been encouraged, and would not settle even if the mayor had
not speculated them for their trade.

Also it should be noted that there are provinces with those in remote
and of little use to the General-commerce, just had other means of
communication which the Mayor vessels, but widespread and the coasting
trade, is of necessity destroy a whole in the provinces Islands absurd
and damaging the system (which is already a lot) correjidores mayors
and businessmen, and alter, as will, because only educated people
in lejislacion in maximum good governance, principles of justice,
and those of a good education and prudence, are those that can manage
well and speedy justice in their districts devote to the statistics
of some countries, which after three centuries that we have, are little
more than unknowns; promote the means of regulating populations and
beautiful, scheming of useful reform and development in agriculture,
industry and navigation, and seek peace and tranquility of the islands
for the conservation and proper prosperity means more solid and stable
than hitherto known, as the lights and illustration of those provinces
so demand it, and justice dictates.

§. V. REFORMS in the industry.

It is
therefore necessary so that considerable variations are supported,
such as the following, or other similar rules to them, much to their branch
reform in both interesting and important, and establish on firm foundations
the preservation and promotion of the wealth of beautiful islands
and as public safety, obrándose with all the tact, maturity and circumspection
that requires delicate matter, and considering the reforms according
to circumstances, beginning at once to provide the courts of those
provinces in lawyers of the qualities listed, with the others that
express the following paragraphs, and others deemed conducive.

1st May the High Court or Regional Court, which as said, is composed of a
regent, five ministers and two prosecutors be divided into two rooms,
and open to the business shift, and only the increase of subordinates
is adopted one of the most important measures to guarantee and secure the
property and individual freedom according to constitutional law, which in
all instances you want and orders are several judges who fail [11], but
more useful would provide that audience with two ministers in four
rooms each, the regent, and two prosecutors for reasons well within
reach of everyone and be the audience of over extent of territory
, and endowed with more scarcity of ministers.

2nd That the magistrates and prosecutors of the Court of Manila,
and meets the Indian law, can never get charge, advice or commission of
any kind, for any title, reason or cause, and in no case have other
occupation than that which will mark its August ministry. section 1
of the provisional rules for the administration of justice in Spain. 3rd
That the Mayor's Office and correct ourselves of all the islands are
classified by the entry, promotion and place, and are performed by lawyers
who must be of royal appointment, and only interim governors may provide
them generals, captains, to three names submitted by the audience,
in the vacancies, until the approval of His Majesty or the appointment
of successor.

4th May for the provision of these destinations are complying with the laws of the Indies, speaking on
provision of jobs, and saved the requirements and formalities prescribed them
[12], and also created many desirable to replace some of those should
be deleted. 5.o That these charges be conferred for six years and
may renewable with three others, when those who have served have not given
cause for complaint, complied with to the satisfaction of higher
authorities, and then can be stored in them opportunity to relocate
as necessary and appropriate, promoted in the vacancies according
to their merit, ability and behavior, taking into account that seniority
will not give any advantage, but only in similar circumstances.

6th Impeachment to be the end of six years, or sooner if they gave just cause of complaint,
ex parte or the public prosecutor, or officially, if this would lead,
under appropriate rules given in regulation. That must be gifted 7th
competently, and with a small difference in pay scale established, as
their functions being equal, there must be equality in the highest possible
rewards, and should be prohibited from: 1st all treatment, or trade boon,
under severe penalties, to be detailed and be effective if: 2nd who
do not receive fees of any kind, paid for by the government to administer
justice, should not other monetary pay his salary, and know that your
good looks and zeal for the service are remunerated promotions relevant
to them.

The extinction of the judges called fee reform is a point the most interesting, because the judges
will be truly unbiased judges, not support requests estemporáneas
or multiply dilijencias useless, which often have place to make up
those fees, which the disbursement damage suffered by the litigants,
it is no less bulk the judicial business suffered by the delay and
loss of precious time spent on such activities.

8th May lawyers who have served to the satisfaction of their municipal government established by the scale,
they attend the merit contracted in the race to fill vacancies occurring in the hearing of the territory,
and are placed on them in preference to any other applicant, as justice
requires, and recommend various Indian laws, which deal with service
awards, which can and should be understood the same in the case of
speech [13].

When that hearing is served by magistrates find that they have made a
career in the provinces, agreements and orders can not but be the
most fair and similar to the laws of India, the customs of the natives,
and the good of the country, and that in any chair the experience
and knowledge acquired in the years of his career, which is not least
for the success. 9th rigorous level is saved in the race, and are promoted
to the courts of the input rise and climb to the finish line, so that if
This plan was adopted, once provided the municipalities, there were
to be provided which aspire to join the race rather than in courts
of entry, and that came through the full range of magistrates for seats
in the audience, as has said. 10th May to encourage good lawyers
to apply for such positions, justifying course Majesty's Government desire worthily
reward which corresponds the important services that this kind of judges
were to pay, and resolve to take so long travel so beautiful and remote country,
declare a mountain pio salary provided that they bring, that in the case
of dying on the trip or shortly after their arrival, are not in the
abandonment and neglect their wives and children, single means of
giving impetus for reform arises as useful as before, and it is established
as safe as it would under warranty.

The results of this very simple plan would be the most profitable
and satisfactory for the administration of justice and happiness of
those countries.

11. or the provision of the three designated classes or correjidores
governors, although not seem fair to equal, or store large disproportion,
because being equal their homework and school principal, there will
be no more difference in your work that most or less population of
their districts, and which will have a separate compensation, equal
for all, as told in the next paragraph.

So, then, may survive with decency the mayors of entry, with an annual salary of 1,200 pesos, the ascent
to 1500, and the term in 1800 means no other fees or ovenciones, as noted in the number 7th 12.o
The compensation shown above shall be by payment of half a percent, or at most one, on revenue
from the tax is or will be under his charge. Between what import this subscription and pay stated,
is certainly not the public treasury is serious in any way, since both assignments together, do
not come nowhere near in the provinces over what is now perceived to have the mayors and correjidores
not administer justice, because for most good wishes that they assume,
their ignorance of legal formulas and commercial occupations do not
permit this.

13.o That is also where they disappear if all these odious privileges of the Indians, as opposed
to the march of prosperity as repugnant to reason, as if their origin might be good, which does
not venture, are already in the extreme, harmful, and thus, the constitutional
law for those countries should be comprehensive to rejirse and govern it, to
all inhabitants of Islands, that is, that before the law everyone
is equal, everyone is subject to her, bound her to all compliance and
enforcement, without distinction of caste or color, European Spanish,
black and white, Chinese, and mestizos, Indians and mulattos , how
many breeds are known to settlement in the Islands, all have to rely
on the same law, as well as dependent and part of the same nation:
only the military courts to deal with service failures, subordination
and discipline, was to be the only exception, but apart from that
the soldier should be prosecuted for common crimes and in their lawsuits,
as well as any other citizen, and by the same law.

Any distinction in it, any privilege, is not only a violation of the law Gen. , and should not
be granted to anyone for any reason or cause. In good time to be rewarded with lavish generosity
and even the unique and extraordinary services which may be in critical circumstances and advances
in the sciences or useful discoveries in agriculture, industry and
navigation, but never rewarded with violation of the law: and these
awards are purely personal and fenezcan with the death of the holder.

In short, one law, one jurisdiction, and a single authority to judge
for the shortest procedures to this point, is the only way to pave
the way for justice to be promptly given and respected. should be
simplified as much as possible these inveterate and ancient rituals
of the trials, which serve more to obscure the truth, to find it and
know by it the right of each, and that lawyers accredited proficiency,
skill and honesty known are those who occupy these places, which extinguishes
all privilege and immunity and to disappear from the forum those powers
of jurisdiction and the simplest, clarity and brevity in the formulas
of prosecution or substantiation, can not fail to touch the most excellent
results, and considerable benefits to the straight and speedy administration
of justice.

Admitted his generals proposed reform plan, or another that can replace him if like this present
the advantages and economies have on there, it seems appropriate for conclusion of this line,
divided into the three different points of scale governments, correct it or mayors in the Philippines
for appropriate uses. the word has been appointed governments, because
some provinces have military governor, and so it seems appropriate
to leave to reward merit and services and honored former military
officers who have served in those countries, so, it seems convenient
and appropriate division of the provinces of the Philippines the following
classification: military governments.

For bosses. Cavite. Zamboanga. Marianas Islands. To subordinate. Batanes Islands. Courts of
entry. Zambales. Batangas. Cagayan [14]. Camarines Norte. Nueva Ecija. Mindoro. Leyte. Negros
Island. Calamianes. Courts of promotion. Laguna de Bay. Tayabas.
Bulacan. Batangas. Capistrano.

Antique.
Zebu. Caraga. Justices of the term. Tondo [15]. Pampanga. Pangasinan. Sur Ilocos. Ilocos Norte.
Camarines Sur. Albay. Misamris. Iloylo. REMARKS. 1.a Al Cagayan
court to be told apart from the factory or collectorate of snuff, and the government
appointed collector factor to fixed salary, or a modest percentage, according
to the plant because it has, is astonishing; is scandalous that a mayor that
office to collect snuff collector, count enjoying the excessive endowment,
which the stores of snuff for Spain, extraordinary rise; exceeds
twelve thousand dollars per year, which the mayor took it ceased lately.



"Yet even though we have them," he returned, still with his hands in his pockets and planted
there in front of me, "they don't much count, do they?"

I made the best of it, but I felt wan. "It depends on what you call 'much'!"

"Yes"--with all accommodation--"everything depends!" On this, however, he faced to the window
again and presently reached it with his vague, restless, cogitating step. He remained there
awhile, with his forehead against the glass, in contemplation of the stupid shrubs I knew and
the dull things of November. I had always my hypocrisy of "work," behind which, now, I gained
the sofa. Steadying myself with it there as I had repeatedly done at those moments of torment
that I have described as the moments of my knowing the children to be given to something from
which I was barred, I sufficiently obeyed my habit of being prepared for the worst. But an
extraordinary impression dropped on me as I extracted a meaning from the boy's embarrassed
back--none other than the impression that I was not barred now. This inference grew in a few
minutes to sharp intensity and seemed bound up with the direct perception that it was positively
HE who was. The frames and squares of the great window were a kind of image, for him, of a
kind of failure. I felt that I saw him, at any rate, shut in or shut out. He was admirable,
but not comfortable: I took it in with a throb of hope. Wasn't he looking, through the haunted
pane, for something he couldn't see?--and wasn't it the first time in the whole business that
he had known such a lapse? The first, the very first: I found it a splendid portent. It made
him anxious, though he watched himself; he had been anxious all day and, even while in his
usual sweet little manner he sat at table, had needed all his small strange genius to give
it a gloss. When he at last turned round to meet me, it was almost as if this genius had succumbed.
"Well, I think I'm glad Bly agrees with ME!"

"You would certainly seem to have seen, these twenty-four hours, a good deal more of it than
for some time before. I hope," I went on bravely, "that you've been enjoying yourself."

"Oh, yes, I've been ever so far; all round about--miles and miles away. I've never been so free."

He had really a manner of his own, and I could only try to keep up with him. "Well, do you
like it?" 

Saturday 15, ran to the south-west, north-east, and from 49 degrees and 18 minutes the coast runs
south-west, which is clean and followed, and the earth floor and bare, and along the coast makes a
barrier high, which looks like a wall across it without being a tree. At three in the afternoon, took
the hill southwest of the Santa Cruz River, which is a high point of land, all dry, with a high
hillock at the tip.

At five were east-west, with the mountain, in fourteen fathoms deep with gravel, to little more than
two miles of the earth. Having seen several letters marked a bay south of the hill of Santa Ines,
were in demand to back tonight, and record the earth: but found that
there is no bay, but rather it followed the coast, and runs south-west
and south quarter.

At nine in the evening, the wind on the south-west swell up big: run with the highest and ratchet
to the south-east, shortly after they stayed with the ratchet alone
and stopping the storm, ran dry stick around the north-east, having closed
the hatches, and secured several lashings and keys to the ship, running
all night which was very laborious. Sunday, 16, ran dry stick to
the two p.m.. In all the preceding night, and part of that day were
so strong blows of the sea, entering on both side of the ship, filling
all of water.

The bags, boxes and chests were rolling from side to side, and some fell about people, unable
to appease anyone or standing or sitting, even lying. Above all, they resented the stomach affliction
and anguish of heart with both shock and uneasiness, and the second
pilot, D. Basilio Ramirez, while attending the maneuver, a blow that
gave him his face was badly wounded.

Our Jesuit, taking a lot to offer to God in these sets, as less familiar, they found comfort
in remembering the dangers and shipwrecks San Pablo and San Francisco Xavier, patron of the
voyage, they suffered the same claim for the conversion of the infidels,
and did the same comfort to all people. "Calming the wind at two o'clock
in the afternoon, gave rise to the largest release and pawl, and
were in 50 degrees, 11 minutes latitude, and esteem, in 311 degrees
and 3 minutes in length. monday 17, with calm day had the mountains
of Santa Cruz River to the west, six leagues away, and evening sailed
along the coast of a large cove that crescent stretching from the
Santa Cruz River to near the bay of San Pedro: it is all high and
dry land without trees.

Tuesday January 18, ended up running the cove, and at six in the morning
we discovered an entry, they thought was the mouth of some river: Going
beyond warned that the entry was full of bursting low waves, and for
being in only five fathoms of water, they anchored with an anchor,
and left the first driver D. Diego Varela in the boat to probe, to
get the ship to franchise: and made a sign, we weighed, along the
coast in search of the Gallegos River hoping to find further south.

There were found at noon in 51 degrees and 10 minutes, and at 308 degrees
and 40 minutes in length. Wednesday, 19, is weighed at five-thirty,
and sailed along the coast out to a high barrier, whose tip goes
out to sea a reef that makes low, and this was found in 6 fathoms.

A little further south of that point they discovered a large mouth, and giving back, Varela came to record
the pilot if he was the Santa Cruz River, or Rio Gallegos, or any other port: that he returned
at dusk without having found the entrance they were intervention is based, that the entry
was visible on the south coast, and it was necessary to mount one
end of a long low, which burst the sea.

On the beach he found a dead whale, and saw many animal tracks, and
found part of recently burned area, where conceived hopes of finding
any port the next day and bands of Indians. Wednesday, 20, was weighed
at five to Zoom to the mouth of the river, where they anchored in
six fathoms of water at half past ten.
 "I have
to see Luke."

I had not yet reduced him to quite so vulgar a lie, and I felt proportionately ashamed. But,
horrible as it was, his lies made up my truth. I achieved thoughtfully a few loops of my knitting.
"Well, then, go to Luke, and I'll wait for what you promise. Only, in return for that, satisfy,
before you leave me, one very much smaller request."

He looked as if he felt he had succeeded enough to be able still a little to bargain. "Very
much smaller--?"

"Yes, a mere fraction of the whole. Tell me"--oh, my work preoccupied me, and I was offhand!--"if,
yesterday afternoon, from the table in the hall, you took, you know, my letter."

XXIV

My sense of how he received this suffered for a minute from something that I can describe only
as a fierce split of my attention--a stroke that at first, as I sprang straight up, reduced
me to the mere blind movement of getting hold of him, drawing him close, and, while I just
fell for support against the nearest piece of furniture, instinctively keeping him with his
back to the window. The appearance was full upon us that I had already had to deal with here:
Peter Quint had come into view like a sentinel before a prison. The next thing I saw was that,
from outside, he had reached the window, and then I knew that, close to the glass and glaring
in through it, he offered once more to the room his white face of damnation. 2.a The military
government of Cavite port and parking should be reduced to the purely military, and the deputy chief
justice of the tax collector must be literate, as in the other provinces, and this be placed in
the class of those promotion. It came to me in the very horror of the immediate presence that the act would be,
seeing and facing what I saw and faced, to keep the boy himself unaware. The inspiration--I
can call it by no other name--was that I felt how voluntarily, how transcendently, I MIGHT.
It was like fighting with a demon for a human soul, and when I had fairly so appraised it I
saw how the human soul--held out, in the tremor of my hands, at arm's length--had a perfect
dew of sweat on a lovely childish forehead. The face that was close to mine was as white as
the face against the glass, and out of it presently came a sound, not low nor weak, but as
if from much further away, that I drank like a waft of fragrance.

"Yes--I took it."

At this, with a moan of joy, I enfolded, I drew him close; and while I held him to my breast,
where I could feel in the sudden fever of his little body the tremendous pulse of his little
heart, I kept my eyes on the thing at the window and saw it move and shift its posture. I have
likened it to a sentinel, but its slow wheel, for a moment, was rather the prowl of a baffled
beast. My present quickened courage, however, was such that, not too much to let it through,
I had to shade, as it were, my flame. Meanwhile the glare of the face was again at the window,
the scoundrel fixed as if to watch and wait. It was the very confidence that I might now defy
him, as well as the positive certitude, by this time, of the child's unconsciousness, that
made me go on. "What did you take it for?"

"To see what you said about me."

"You opened the letter?"

"I opened it."

My eyes were now, as I held him off a little again, on Miles's own face, in which the collapse
of mockery showed me how complete was the ravage of uneasiness. What was prodigious was that
at last, by my success, his sense was sealed and his communication stopped: he knew that he
was in presence, but knew not of what, and knew still less that I also was and that I did know.
And what did this strain of trouble matter when my eyes went back to the window only to see
that the air was clear again and--by my personal triumph--the influence quenched? There was
nothing there. I felt that the cause was mine and that I should surely get ALL. "And you found
nothing!"--I let my elation out.

He gave the most mournful, thoughtful little headshake. "Nothing."

"Nothing, nothing!" I almost shouted in my joy.

"Nothing, nothing," he sadly repeated.

I kissed his forehead; it was drenched. "So what have you done with it?"

"I've burned it."

"Burned it?" It was now or never. "Is that what you did at school?"

Oh, what this brought up! "At school?"

"Did you take letters?--or other things?"

"Other things?" 2 Coll. pigs. [18] Law 17, tit.

32, lib. 2 Coll. pigs. [19] Law 25, tit. 32, lib.

2 Coll. pigs.

[20] When they began to make notes and coordinate some notes that
were intended at the time for this report or for other uses, was already
raised the harmful and wasteful system of warrants, but walked up to
date, because neither were very frequent nor so large as it seems to
have been after.

Indeed, as written in Manila in mid-June of 1841, there is an unfulfilled
drafts amounting to one million seven hundred thousand dollars, an
amount bearing interest at 6 per 100 years, it has not been paid:
these outrageous and exorbitant Jiros had to be made in late 1839 and early 1840,
according to reports: better off to be published when and how they
were made and how, not to pay for the sins , and knew who was on that
account so warrant and reason was given on promissory note, without waiting
to see if the first had been satisfied, even if I had funds for such
payments, not taking the trouble to the mother country, despoil it,
and Manila impoverished boxes, overloading outrageously, and irregularly
and no thought, and have only served to lift some fortunes at the expense of
public funds. [21] Order 57, tit. 2, lib. 2, Coll. pigs. [22] Law 14,
16, 20 and 36, tit. 2, lib. 3 and 66, tit. 3, lib.

3 of the Recopilacion de Indias.

[23] The Philippine Islands were discovered by Magellan in the year
1519, Miguel Lopez de Legaspi and began the founding of Manila which
is located in 1571: a bishopric was erected in 1581, and was promoted
to Metropolis in 1595.

[24] Nothing I will venture on the foregoing, it is certain that
if we are to give a special law analogous to our overseas possessions,
it is certain it will take some years to complete, but what the provisional
regency United said in its manifesto to the inhabitants of the Spanish
provinces Overseas November 17, 1840.

In this manifesto, among other things, is the following remarkable
period. "Determined is in the Constitution of the Monarchy to the provinces
of Overseas must be governed by special laws, and not only is time to meet
them this solemn offering, but it also is essential that these laws
be accommodated to the illustration of the time, and respect the rights
of their inhabitants, Titles are very sacred to demand it.

The Regency intends to fulfill this duty, selecting projects to improve
all sectors of public administration: special, and particularly seek
to organize a good municipal system, provide lessons for all classes,
fix tribunals and courts, to facilitate internal communications and
exterior, and that the choice of employees rests with persons worthy
for their ability, purity and good standing, and the authorities
in sugetos fit to govern with fairness and impartiality that they
deserve as a people identified by many things with those of the Peninsula,
and as creditors to their consideration and appreciation.

"This interesting paragraph of that manifesto has been brought to
the conclusion of this report, because it only proves itself the indispensable
and urgent need for tribunals and courts (especially in the Philippines)
to take a march over its own and regular that they have, and if this
did not happen, but worth not having spoken to those needs, too public
and well known, and that demand a quick remedy Gen. reform.

[25] However in this former Royal disposal, and many others that are more
modern and stronger few, have not been cut abuses therein reprimand.

For there again, against the glass, as if to blight his confession and stay his answer, was
the hideous author of our woe--the white face of damnation. I felt a sick swim at the drop
of my victory and all the return of my battle, so that the wildness of my veritable leap only
served as a great betrayal. I saw him, from the midst of my act, meet it with a divination,
and on the perception that even now he only guessed, and that the window was still to his own
eyes free, I let the impulse flame up to convert the climax of his dismay into the very proof
of his liberation. "No more, no more, no more!" I shrieked, as I tried to press him against
me, to my visitant.

"Is she HERE?" Miles panted as he caught with his sealed eyes the direction of my words. Then
as his strange "she" staggered me and, with a gasp, I echoed it, "Miss Jessel, Miss Jessel!"
he with a sudden fury gave me back. 

Kings Island, which will take a mile long, is east-southeast of the mouth of the harbor, and so
this like all the other islands, reefs, & c. is in this port, the Father Quiroga scored on time
in a very accurate map has formed. It's THERE--the coward horror, there for the last time!" 

Hopefully, appropriate land, but it is barren, and lack of everything needed for a settlement. There
are no trees that could be used for timber: only in the streams is a little wood for stoves and
cooking food. "It's HE?"

I was so determined to have all my proof that I flashed into ice to challenge him. "Whom do
you mean by 'he'?"

"Peter Quint--you devil!" If it were not because it is very ugly stain the honor of a girl,
amartelada might suspect that the couple had gotten into the interior
of the house.

Piscis, meanwhile, was the sentinel walking along the street. I have you," I launched at the
beast, "but he has lost you forever!" Then, for the demonstration of my work, "There, THERE!"
I said to Miles.

But he had already jerked straight round, stared, glared again, and seen but the quiet day. This
issue has been addressed before now, and more than once, in Manila, where there sugetos that
could inform much extent on the establishment in question, and would produce benefits the
country and state. §

. I caught him, yes, I held him--it may be imagined with what a passion; but at the
end of a minute I began to feel what it truly was that I held. We were alone with the quiet
day, and his little heart, dispossessed, had stopped.

