Within a few years, the progress of scientific knowledge has enabled man to measure the depths
of the ocean, which were formerly believed to be as unfathomable as boundless in extent. From
soundings which have been taken, it is ascertained that the configuration of the earth at the
bottom of the sea, is similar to that portion which rises above the surface, undulating, and
interspersed with hills, and valleys, and plains, and mountain ranges, and abrupt precipices.
The greatest depth of water at which soundings have been obtained, being between five and six
miles, is deeper than the altitude of the highest mountain of which we have knowledge; and
there may be cavities of far greater depth. Geological researches prove that at an early period
of the history of the earth its surface was vastly more irregular than at the present time.
Not only the mountains on the earth were higher, but the deepest valleys of ocean were far
deeper. Disintegrations caused by exposure to water or the atmosphere, and abrasions from causes
with which we may not be familiar, have lowered the mountain tops, and created deposits which
raise the plains and fill the deepest chasms. And here geologists find the origin of the earliest
formation of stratified rocks.

Men have striven in vain to develop the secrets which lie hidden in the sea. Imagination has
been at work for ages, and in some cases has pictured the bottom of ocean as a sort of marine
paradise, a nautical Eden, with charming grottoes, spacious gardens, coral forests, ridges
of golden sands, and heaps of precious gems; and abounding in inhabitants with fairy forms,
angelic features, and other attributes corresponding with the favored region in which they
flourish, who sometimes rise to the surface of ocean, and seated on the craggy rocks, sing
sweet ballads to charm away the life of the unwary mariner. Leyden, a Scottish poet, imagines
one of these charming denizens of the deep to describe, in the following poetic language, the
attractions of this submarine world:

     "How sweet, when billows heave their head,
     And shake their arrowy crests on high,
     Serene, in Ocean's sapphire bed,
     Beneath the trembling surge to lie!

     "To trace with tranquil step the deep,
     Where pearly drops of frozen dew,
     In concave shells, unconscious sleep,
     Or shine with lustre, silvery blue.

     "Then shall the summer's sun from far
     Pour through the waves a softer ray,
     While diamonds, in a bower of spar,
     At eve shall shed a brighter day."

Others, however, with fancies equally vigorous, but less ornate or refined, give us different
sketches of the doings in Neptune's dominions. They picture the bottom of ocean as un uninviting
spot, replete with objects calculated to chill the blood and sadden the heart of man; inhabited
by beings of a character rather repulsive than prepossessing, as salt-water satyrs, krakens,
polypuses, and marine monsters of frightful aspects and hideous habits; glimpses of which are
occasionally seen by favored inhabitants of these upper regions, sometimes in the shape of
monstrous sea-serpents, with flowing manes and goggle eyes, lashing with their tails the astonished
waters of Massachusetts Bay.

Although man can fathom the depths of the sea, and may by scientific experiments, conducted
with immense labor and expense, succeed in mapping out the great ocean basins, and obtaining
an accurate idea of the configuration of that part of the earth which lies beneath the waters,
yet the true character of the scenery, vegetation, and inhabitants of that region must remain
unknown until some new philosophical and mechanical principles shall be discovered to pave
the way to a system of submarine navigation, and the enterprise confided to some daring Yankee,
with the promise of an exclusive patent right to its use for a century to come.

In the mean time we may rest assured that no valuable gems or lumps of gold have yet been brought
up by the plummet. Indeed, so far as is shown by the soundings, the bottom of the ocean is
covered with microscopic shells, so wonderfully minute that thousands may be counted on the
surface of a single square inch. We know also that the bed of ocean, for at least four hundred
years, has served as a repository, a burial-place, not only for earth's choicest productions
and myriads of human beings, gone to the bottom in sunken ships, but for disappointed hopes,
false calculations, and sanguine schemes for the realization of fortune and honor.

The immensity, the majesty, and the wonders of the sea are manifest, and acknowledged by all.
But what can surpass its beauty when in repose! What scene can be more sublimely beautiful
than the sea when gazed upon from the mast-head of a ship, gliding along as if impelled by
the breath of a fairy! Every thing in the vicinity, as well as the vast expanse stretching
out on every side, is calculated to inspire confidence, invite security, and give complete
reliance on its gentle and pacific character. While enjoying the delightful scene, the passions
are hushed. The sea seems the blest abode of tranquillity. We are alive only to its beauty,
its grace, its magnitude, its power to interest and charm, to benefit mankind and beautify
the world.

And how calmly beautiful is the close of day! What nameless charms cluster around a sunset
at sea! The heavens and light clouds are not clad in purple and gold; but the western sky is
attractive and lovely in the richness of its sober brilliancy. The sun, with undivided glory,
goes down in the west, sinking gently and gradually beneath the well-defined horizon, like
the spirit of a good man in the evening of life, departing for a better world.

Night drops her curtain only to change the scene and invest it with holier attributes. The
moon sheds her light on the surface of the ocean. No sounds break the stillness of the hour
as the ship, urged by the favored breeze, quietly, yet perseveringly, pursues her course, save
the murmuring ripple of the waves, the measured tread of the officer of the watch as he walks
the deck, the low, half-stifled creaking of a block as if impatient of inactivity, the occasional
flap of a sail awakened out of its sleep, and the stroke of the bell every half hour to mark
the lapse of time, sending its musical, ringing notes far over the water. What a time is this
for study, for contemplation, for enjoyment! The poet Gilfillan, in describing a lovely night
at sea, says, with true poetic warmth and energy,

     "Night closed around the ship; no sound
     Save of the splashing sea
     Was heard.  The waters all around
     Murmured so pleasantly,
     You would have thought the mermaids sung
     Down in their coral caves,
     So softly and so sweetly rang
     The music of the waves!"

Were such scenes always met with at sea, was its surface always smooth, the winds favorable
and the sky unclouded, little resolution or physical endurance would be required to navigate
the ocean; the energies which call THE SAILOR into life would no longer be necessary; the sea
would be covered with pleasure yachts of the most fanciful description, manned by exquisites
in snow-white gloves, propelled with silken sails, and decked with streamers, perhaps with
flowers, while their broad decks would be thronged with a gay and happy bevy, of both sexes
and every age, bent on pleasure and eager to enjoy the beauties of the sea.

