In this same year of 1740 Voltaire, in response to urgent invitations, paid his first visit
to Frederick the Great in Germany. Voltaire is usually said not to have yet become a Mason,
and the date of his initiation is supposed to have been 1778, when he was received into the
Loge des Neuf Soeurs in Paris. But this by no means precludes the possibility that he had belonged
to another masonic Order at an earlier date. At any rate, Voltaire's visit to Germany was followed
by two remarkable events in the masonic world of France. The first of these was the institution
of the additional degrees; the second--perhaps not wholly unconnected with the first--was the
arrival in Paris of a masonic delegate from Germany named von Marschall, who brought with him
instructions for a new or rather a revived Order of Templarism, in which he attempted to interest
Prince Charles Edward and his followers.

Von Marschall was followed about two years later by Baron von Hunt, who had been initiated
in 1741 into the three degrees of Craft Masonry in Germany and now came to consecrate a lodge
in Paris. According to von Hundt's own account, he was then received into the Order of the
Temple by an unknown Knight of the Red Plume, in the presence of Lord Kilmarnock,[399] and
was presented as a distinguished Brother to Prince Charles Edward, whom he imagined to be Grand
Master of the Order.[400] But all this was afterwards shown to be a pure frabrication, for
Prince Charles Edward dened all knowledge of the affair, and von Hundt himself admitted later
that he did not know the name of the lodge or chapter in which he was received, but that he
was directed from "a hidden centre" and by Unknown Superiors, whose identity he was bound not
to reveal.[401] In reality it appears that von Hundt's account was exactly the opposite of
the truth,[402] and that it was von Hundt who, seconding von Marschall's effort, tried to enrol
Prince Charles Edward in the new German Order by assuring him that he could raise powerful
support for the Stuart cause under the cover of reorganizing the Templar Order, of which he
claimed to possess the true secrets handed down from the Knights of the fourteenth century.
By way of further rehabilitating the Order, von Hundt declared that all the accusations brought
against it by Philippe le Bel and the Pope were based on false charges manufactured by two
recreant Knights named Noffodei and Florian as a revenge for having been deprived of their
commands by the Order in consequence of certain crimes they had committed.[403] According to
Lecouteulx de Canteleu, von Hundt eventually succeeded--after the defeat of Culloden--in persuading
Prince Charles Edward to enter his Order. But this is extremely doubtful. At any rate, when
in 1751 von Hundt officially founded his new Templar Order under the name of the Stricte Observance,
the unfortunate Charles Edward played no part at all in the scheme. As Mr. Gould has truly
observed, "no trace of Jacobite intrigues ever blended with the teaching of the Stricte Observance."[404]

The Order of the Stricte Observance was in reality a purely German association composed of
men drawn entirely from the intellectual and aristocratic classes, and, in imitation of the
chivalric Orders of the past, known to each other under knightly titles. Thus Prince Charles
of Hesse became Eques a Leone Resurgente, Duke Ferdinand of Brunswick Eques a Victoria, the
Prussian minister von Bischoffswerder Eques a Grypho, Baron de Wachter Eques a Ceraso, Christian
Bode (Councillor of Legation in Saxe-Gotha) Eques a Lilio Convallium, von Haugwitz (Cabinet
Minister of Frederick the Great) Eques a Monte Sancto, etc.

But according to the declarations of the Order the official leaders, Knights of the Moon, the
Star, the Golden Sun, or of the Sacred Mountain, were simply figure-heads; the real leaders,
known as the "Unknown Superiors," remained in the background, unadorned by titles of chivalry
but exercising supreme jurisdiction over the Order. The system had been foreshadowed by the
"Invisibles" of seventeenth-century Rosicrucianism; but now, instead of an intangible group
whose very existence was only known vaguely to the world, there appeared in the light of day
a powerful organization led apparently by men of influence and position yet secretly directed
by hidden chiefs.[405] Mirabeau has described the advent of these mysterious directors in the
following passage:

     In about 1756 there appeared, as if they had come out of the
     ground, men sent, they said, by unknown superiors, and armed with
     powers to reform the order [of Freemasonry] and re-establish it in
     its ancient purity. One of these missionaries, named Johnston, came
     to Weimar and Jena, where he established himself. He was received
     in the best way in the world by the brothers [Freemasons], who were
     lured by the hope of great secrets, of important discoveries which
     were never made known to them.[406]

Now, in the manuscripts of the Prince of Hesse published by Lecouteulx de Canteleu it is said
that this man Johnston, or rather Johnson, who proclaimed himself to be "Grand Prior of the
Order," was a Jew named Leicht or Leucht.[407] Gould says that his real name was either Leucht
or Becker, but that he professed to be an Englishman, although unable to speak the English
language, hence his assumption of the name Johnson.[408] Mr. Gould has described Johnson as
a "consummate rogue and an unmitigated vagabond ... of almost repulsive demeanour and of no
education, but gifted with boundless impudence and low cunning." Indeed, von Hundt himself,
after enlisting Johnson's services, found him too dangerous and declared him to be an adventurer.
Johnson was thereupon arrested by von Hundt's friend the councillor von Pritsch, and thrown
into the castle of Wartburg, where sudden death ended his career.

It is, however, improbable that Mirabeau could be right in indicating Johnson as one of the
"Unknown Superiors," who were doubtless men of vaster conceptions than this adventurer appears
to have been. Moreover, the manner of his end clearly proves that he occupied a subordinate
position in the Stricte Observance.

Here, then, we have a very curious sequence of events which it may be well to recapitulate
briefly in order to appreciate their full significance:

  1737. Oration of Chevalier Ramsay indicating Templar origin of
        Freemasonry, but making no mention of upper degrees.

  1738. Duc d'Antin becomes Grand Master of French Freemasonry in the
        place of Lord "Harnouester."

  1738. Frederick, Crown Prince of Prussia, initiated into Masonry at
        Brunswick.

  1740. Voltaire pays his first visit to Frederick, now King.

  1741. Baron von Marschall arrives in Paris with a plan for reviving
        the Templar Order.

        Templar degrees first heard of in France under name of "Scots
        Masonry."

  1743. Arrival in France of Baron von Hundt with fresh plans for
        reviving the Templar Order.

        Degree of Knight Kadosch celebrating vengeance of Templars said
        to have been instituted at Lyons.

  1750. Voltaire goes to spend three years with Frederick.

  1751. Templar Order of the Stricte Observance founded by von Hundt.

  1754. Rite of Perfection (early form of Scottish Rite) founded in
        France.

  1761. Frederick acknowledged head of Scottish Rite.

    "   Morin sent to found Rite of Perfection in America.

  1762. Grand Masonic Constitutions ratified in Berlin.[409]

It will be seen then that what Mr. Gould describes as "the flood of Templarism," which both
he and Mr. Tuckett attribute to the so-called Scots Masons,[410] corresponds precisely with
the decline of Jacobite and the rise of German influence. Would it not therefore appear probable
that, except in the case of the Rose-Croix degree, the authors of the upper degrees were not
Scotsmen nor Jacobites, that Scots Masonry was a term used to cover not merely Templarism but
more especially German Templarism, and that the real author and inspirer of the movement was
Frederick the Great? No, it is significant to find that in the history of the Ordre du Temple,
published at the beginning of the nineteenth century, Frederick the Great is cited as one of
the most distinguished members of this Order in the past,[411] and the Abbé Grégoire adds that
he was "consecrated" at Remersberg (Rheinsberg?) in 1738, that is to say in the same year that
he was initiated into Masonry at Brunswick.[412] There is therefore a definite reason for connecting
Frederick with Templarism at this date.

I would suggest, then, that the truth about the Templar succession may be found in one of the
two following theories:

1. That the documents produced by the Ordre du Temple in the nineteenth century, including
the Charter of Larmenius, were genuine; that the Order had never ceased to exist since the
days of the Crusades; that the Templar heresy was Johannism, but that this was not held by
the Templars who escaped to Scotland; that the Rose-Croix degree in its purely Christian form
was introduced by the Scottish Templars to Scotland and four hundred years later brought by
Ramsay to France; that the Master of the Temple at this date was the Regent, Philippe Duc d'Orléans,
as stated in the Charter of Larmenius. Finally, that after this, fresh Templar degrees were
introduced from Germany by von Hundt, acting on behalf of Frederick the Great.

2. That the documents produced by the Ordre du Temple in the nineteenth century were, as M.
Matter declares, early eighteenth-century fabrications; that although, in view of the tradition
preserved in the Royal Order of Scotland, there appears to be good reason to believe the story
of the Scottish Templars and the origin of the Rose-Croix degree, the rest of the history of
the Templars, including the Charter of Larmenius, was an invention of the "Concealed Superiors"
of the Stricte Observance in Germany, and that the most important of these "Concealed Superiors"
were Frederick the Great and Voltaire.

I shall not attempt to decide which of these two theories is correct; all that I do maintain
is that in either case the preponderating rôle in Templarism at this crisis was played by Frederick
the Great, probably with the co-operation of Voltaire, who in his Essai sur les Mæurs championed
the cause of the Templars. Let us follow the reasons for arriving at this conclusion.

Ramsay's oration in 1737 connecting Freemasonry with the Templars may well have come to the
ears of Frederick and suggested to him the idea of using Masonry as a cover for his intrigues--hence
his hasty initiation at Brunswick. But in order to acquire influence in a secret society it
is always necessary to establish a claim to superior knowledge, and Templarism seemed to provide
a fruitful source of inspiration. For this purpose new light must be thrown on the Order. Now,
there was probably no one better qualified than Voltaire, with his knowledge of the ancient
and medieval world and hatred of the Catholic Church, to undertake the construction of a historical
romance subversive of the Catholic faith--hence the urgent summons to the philosopher to visit
Frederick. We can imagine Voltaire delving amongst the records of the past in order to reconstruct
the Templar heresy. This was clearly Gnostic, and the Mandæans or Christians of St. John may
well have appeared to present the required characteristics. If it could be shown that here
in Johannism true "primitive Christianity" was to be found, what a blow for the "infâme"! A
skilful forger could easily be found to fabricate the documents said to have been preserved
in the secret archives of the Order. Further we find von Marschall arriving in the following
year in France to reorganize the Templars, and von Hundt later claiming to be in possession
of the true secrets of the Order handed down from the fourteenth century. That some documents
bearing on this question were either discovered or fabricated under the direction of Frederick
the Great seems the more probable from the existence of a masonic tradition to this effect.
Thus Dr. Oliver quotes a Report of the Grand Inspectors-General in the nineteenth century stating
that:

     During the Crusades, at which 27,000 Masons were present, some
     masonic MSS. of great importance were discovered among the
     descendants of the ancient Jews, and that other valuable documents
     were found at different periods down to the year of Light 5557
     (i.e. 1553), at which time a record came to light in Syrian
     characters, relating to the most remote antiquity, and from which
     it would appear that the world is many thousand years older than
     given by the Mosaic account. Few of these characters were
     translated till the reign of our illustrious and most enlightened
     Brother Frederick II, King of Prussia, whose well-known zeal for
     the Craft was the cause of so much improvement in the Society over
     which he condescended to preside.[413]

I suggest, then, that the documents here referred to and containing the secrets claimed by
von Hundt may have been the ones afterwards published by the Ordre du Temple in the nineteenth
century, and that if unauthentic they were the work of Voltaire, aided probably by a Jew capable
of forging Syriac manuscripts. That Johnson was the Jew in question seems probable, since Findel
definitely asserts that the history of the continuation of the Order of Knights Templar was
his work.[414] Frederick, as we know, was in the habit of employing Jews to carry out shady
transactions, and he may well have used Johnson to forge documents as he used Ephraim to coin
false money for him. It would be further quite in keeping with his policy to get rid of the
man as soon as he had served his purpose, lest he should betray his secrets.

At any rate, whatever were the methods employed by Frederick the Great for obtaining control
over Masonry, the fruitful results of that "very trifling circumstance," his initiation at
Brunswick, become more and more apparent as the century advances. Thus when in 1786 the Rite
of Perfection was reorganized and rechristened the "Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite"--always
the same Scottish cover for Prussianism!--it is said to have been Frederick who conducted operations,
drew up the new Constitutions of the Order, and rearranged the degrees so as to bring the total
number up to thirty-three[415], as follows:

    26. Prince of Mercy.
    27. Sovereign Commander of the Temple.
    28. Knight of the Sun.
    29. Grand Scotch Knight of St. Andrew.
    30. Grand Elect Knight of Kadosch.
    31. Grand Inspector Inquisitor Commander.
    32. Sublime Prince of the Royal Secret.
    33. Sovereign Grand Inspector-General.

In the last four degrees Frederick the Great and Prussia play an important part; in the thirtieth
degree of Knight Kadosch, largely modelled on the Vehmgerichts, the Knights wear Teutonic crosses,
the throne is surmounted by the double-headed eagle of Prussia, and the President, who is called
Thrice Puissant Grand Master, represents Frederick himself; in the thirty-second degree of
Sublime Prince of the Royal Secret, Frederick is described as the head of Continental Freemasonry;
in the thirty-third degree of Sovereign Grand Inspector-General the jewel is again the double-headed
eagle, and the Sovereign Grand Commander is Frederick, who at the time this degree was instituted
figured with Philippe, Duc d'Orléans, Grand Master of the Grand Orient, as his lieutenant.
The most important of these innovations was the thirty-second degree, which was in reality
a system rather than a degree for bringing together the Masons of all countries under one head--hence
the immense power acquired by Frederick. By 1786 French Masonry was thus entirely Prussianized
and Frederick had indeed become the idol of Masonry everywhere. Yet probably no one ever despised
Freemasonry more profoundly. As the American Mason Albert Pike shrewdly observed:

     There is no doubt that Frederick came to the conclusion that the
     great pretensions of Masonry in the blue degrees were merely
     imaginary and deceptive. He ridiculed the Order, and thought its
     ceremonies mere child's play; and some of his sayings to that
     effect have been preserved. It does not at all follow that he might
     not at a later day have found it politic to put himself at the head
     of an Order that had become a power....[416]

It is not without significance to find that in the year following the official foundation of
the Stricte Observance, that is to say in 1752, Lord Holdernesse, in a letter to the British
Ambassador in Paris, Lord Albemarle, headed "Very secret," speaks of "the influence which the
King of Prussia has of late obtained over all the French Councils"; and a few weeks later Lord
Albemarle refers to "the great influence of the Prussian Court over the French Councils by
which they are so blinded as not to be able to judge for themselves."[417]

But it is time to turn to another sphere of activity which Masonry opened out to the ambitions
of Frederick.

The making of the Encyclopédie, which even those writers the most sceptical with regard to
secret influences behind the revolutionary movement admit to have contributed towards the final
cataclysm, is a question on which official history has thrown but little light. According to
the authorized version of the story--as related, for example, in Lord Morley's work on the
Encyclopædists--the plan of translating Ephraim Chambers's Cyclopædia, which had appeared in
1728, was suggested to Diderot "some fifteen years later" by a French bookseller named Le Breton.

In the famous speech of the Chevalier Ramsay already quoted, which was delivered at Grand Lodge
of Paris in 1737, the following passage occurs:

     The fourth quality required in our Order is the taste for useful
     sciences and the liberal arts. Thus, the Order exacts of each of
     you to contribute, by his protection, liberality, or labour, to a
     vast work for which no academy can suffice, because all these
     societies being composed of a very small number of men, their work
     cannot embrace an object so extended. All the Grand Masters in
     Germany, England, Italy, and elsewhere exhort all the learned men
     and all the artisans of the Fraternity to unite to furnish the
     materials for a Universal Dictionary of all the liberal arts and
     useful sciences; excepting only theology and politics. The work has
     already been commenced in London, and by means of the unions of our
     brothers it may be carried to a conclusion in a few years.[419]

So after all it was no enterprising bookseller, no brilliantly inspired philosopher, who conceived
the idea of the Encyclopédie, but a powerful international organization able to employ the
services of more men than all the academies could supply, which devised the scheme at least
six years before the date at which it is said to have occurred to Diderot. Thus the whole story
as usually told to us would appear to be a complete fabrication--struggling publishers, toiling
littérateurs carrying out their superhuman task as "independent men of letters" without the
patronage of the great--which Lord Morley points out as "one of the most important facts in
the history of the Encyclopædia"--writers of all kinds bound together by no "common understanding
or agreement," are all seen in reality to have been closely associated as "artisans of the
Fraternity" carrying out the orders of their superiors.

The Encyclopédie was therefore essentially a Masonic publication, and Papus, whilst erroneously
attributing the famous oration and consequently the plan of the Encyclopédie to the inspiration
of the Duc d'Antin, emphasizes the importance of this fact. Thus, he writes:

     The Revolution manifests itself by two stages:

     1st. Intellectual revolution, by the publication of the
     Encyclopédie, due to French Freemasonry under the high
     inspiration of the Duc d'Antin.

     2nd. Occult revolution in the Lodges, due in great part to the
     members of the Templar Rite and executed by a group of expelled
     Freemasons afterwards amnestied.[420]

The masonic authorship of the Encyclopédie and the consequent dissemination of revolutionary
doctrines has remained no matter of doubt to the Freemasons of France; on the contrary, they
glory in the fact. At the congress of the Grand Orient in 1904 the Freemason Bonnet declared:

     In the eighteenth century the glorious line of Encyclopædists
     formed in our temples a fervent audience which was then alone in
     invoking the radiant device as yet unknown to the crowd: "Liberty,
     Equality, Fraternity." The revolutionary seed quickly germinated
     amidst this élite. Our illustrious Freemasons d'Alembert,
     Diderot, Helvétius, d'Holbach, Voltaire, Condorcet, completed the
     evolution of minds and prepared the new era. And, when the Bastille
     fell, Freemasonry had the supreme honour of giving to humanity the
     charter (i.e. the Declaration of the Rights of Man) which it had
     elaborated with devotion. (Applause.)

This charter, the orator went on to say, was the work of the Freemason Lafayette, and was adopted
by the Constituent Assembly, of which more than 300 members were Freemasons.

But in using the lodges to sow the seeds of revolution, the Encyclopædists betrayed not only
the cause of monarchy but of Masonry as well. It will be noticed that, in conformity with true
masonic principles, Ramsay in his oration expressly stated that the encyclopædia was to concern
itself with the liberal arts and sciences[421] and that theology and politics were to be excluded
from the contemplated scheme. How, then, did it come to pass that these were eventually the
two subjects to which the Encyclopædists devoted the greatest attention, so that their work
became principally an attack on Church and monarchy? If Papus was right in attributing this
revolutionary tendency to the Encyclopédie from the time of the famous oration, then Ramsay
could only be set down as the profoundest hypocrite or as the mouthpiece of hypocrites professing
intentions the very reverse of their real designs. A far more probable explanation seems to
be that during the interval between Ramsay's speech and the date when the Encyclopédie was
begun in earnest, the scheme underwent a change. It will be noticed that the year of 1746,
when Diderot and d'Alembert are said to have embarked on their task, coincided with the decadence
of French Freemasonry under the Comte de Clermont and the invasion of the lodges by the subversive
elements; thus the project propounded with the best intentions by the Freemasons of 1737 was
filched by their revolutionary successors and turned to a diametrically opposite purpose.

But it is not to the dancing-master Lacorne and his middle-class following that we can attribute
the efficiency with which not only the Encyclopédie but a host of minor revolutionary publications
were circulated all over France. Frederick the Great had seen his opportunity. If I am right
in my surmise that Ramsay's speech had reached the ears of Frederick, the prospect of the Encyclopédie
contained therein may well have appeared to him a magnificent method for obtaining a footing
in the intellectual circles of France; hence then, doubtless, an additional reason for his
hasty initiation into Masonry, his summons to Voltaire, and his subsequent overtures to Diderot
and d'Alembert, who, by the time the first volume of the Encyclopédie appeared in 1751, had
both been made members of the Royal Academy of Prussia. In the following year Frederick offered
d'Alembert the presidency of the Academy in place of Maupertuis, an offer which was refused;
but in 1755 and again in 1763 d'Alembert visited Frederick in Germany and received his pension
regularly from Berlin. It is therefore not surprising that when the Encyclopédie had reached
the letter P, it included, in an unsigned article on Prussia, a panegyric on the virtues and
the talents of the illustrious monarch who presided over the destinies of that favoured country.

The art of Frederick the Great, as of his successors on the throne of the Hohenzollerns, was
to make use of every movement that could further the design of Prussian supremacy. He used
the Freemasons as he used the philosophers and as he used the Jews, to carry out his great
scheme--the destruction of the French monarchy and of the alliance between France and Austria.
Whilst through his representatives at the Court of France he was able to create discord between
Versailles and Vienna and bring discredit on Marie Antoinette, through his allies in the masonic
lodges and in the secret societies he was able to reach the people of France. The gold and
the printing presses of Frederick the Great were added to those of the Orléanistes for the
circulation of seditious literature throughout the provinces.[422]

So as the century advanced the association founded by Royalists and Catholics was turned into
an engine of destruction by revolutionary intriguers; the rites and symbols were gradually
perverted to an end directly opposed to that for which they had been instituted, and the two
degrees of Rose-Croix and Knight Kadosch came to symbolize respectively war on religion and
war on the monarchy of France.

It is no orthodox Catholic but an occultist and Rosicrucian who thus describes the rôle of
Masonry in the Revolution:

     Masonry has not only been profaned but it has been served as a
     cover and pretext for the plots of anarchy, by the occult influence
     of the avengers of Jacques du Molay and the continuers of the
     schismatic work of the Temple. Instead of avenging the death of
     Hiram, they have avenged his assassins. The anarchists have taken
     the plumb-line, the square, and the mallet and have written on them
     liberty, equality, fraternity. That is to say, liberty for
     envyings, equality in degradation, fraternity for destruction.
     Those are the men whom the Church has justly condemned and that she
     will always condemn.[423]

But it is time to turn to another masonic power which meanwhile had entered the lists, the
Martinistes or French Illuminés.

French Illuminism

Whilst Frederick the Great, the Freemasons, the Encyclopædists, and the Orléanistes were working
on the material plane to undermine the Church and monarchy in France, another cult had arisen
which by the middle of the century succeeded in insinuating itself into the lodges. This was
a recrudescence of the old craze for occultism, which now spread like wildfire all over Europe
from Bordeaux to St. Petersburg. During the reign of Anna of Courland (1730-40) the Russian
Court was permeated with superstition, and professional magicians and charlatans of every kind
were encouraged. The upper classes of Germany in the eighteenth century proved equally susceptible
to the attractions of the supernatural, and princes desirous of long life or greater power
eagerly pursued the quest of the Philosopher's Stone, the "Elixir of Life," and evoked spirits
under the direction of occultists in their service.

In France occultism, reduced to a system, adopted the outer forms of Masonry as a cover to
the propagation of its doctrines. It was in 1754 that Martines de Pasqually (or Paschalis),
a Rose-Croix Mason,[424] founded his Order of Élus Cohens (Elected Priests), known later as
the Martinistes or the French Illuminés. Although brought up in the Christian faith, Pasqually
has been frequently described as a Jew. The Baron de Gleichen, himself a Martiniste and a member
of the Amis Réunis,[425] throws an interesting light on the matter in this passage: "Pasqualis
was originally Spanish, perhaps of the Jewish race, since his disciples inherited from him
a large number of Jewish manuscripts."[426]

It was "this Cabalistic sect,"[427] the Martinistes, which now became the third great masonic
power in France.

The rite of the Martinistes was broadly divided into two classes, in the first of which was
represented the fall of man and in the second his final restoration--a further variation on
the masonic theme of a loss and a recovery. After the first three Craft degrees came the Cohen
degrees of the same--Apprentice Cohen, Fellow Craft Cohen, and Master Cohen--then those of
Grand Architect, Grand Elect of Zerubbabel or Knight of the East: but above these were concealed
degrees leading up to the Rose-Croix, which formed the capstone of the edifice.[428] Pasqually
first established his rite at Marseilles, Toulouse, and Bordeaux, then in Paris, and before
long Martiniste lodges spread all over France with the centre at Lyons under the direction
of Willermoz, a prosperous merchant living there. From this moment other occult Orders sprang
up in all directions. In 1760 Dom Pernetti founded his sect of "Illuminés d'Avignon" in that
city, declaring himself a high initiate of Freemasonry and teaching the doctrines of Swedenborg.
Later a certain Chastanier founded the "Illuminés Théosophes," a modified version of Pernetti's
rite; and in 1783 the Marquis de Thomé started a purified variety of Swedenborgianism under
the name of "Rite of Swedenborg."

Beneath all these occult sects one common source of inspiration is to be found--the perverted
and magical Cabala of the Jews, that conglomeration of wild theosophical imaginings and barbaric
superstitions founded on ancient pagan cults and added to throughout seventeen centuries by
succeeding generations of Jewish occultists.[429] This influence is particularly to be detected
in the various forms of the Rose-Croix degree, which in nearly all these associations forms
the highest and most secret degree. The ritual of "the eminent Order of the Knights of the
Black Eagle or Sovereigns of the Rose-Croix," a secret and unpublished document of the eighteenth
century, which differs entirely from the published rituals, explains that no one can attain
to knowledge of the higher sciences without the "Clavicules de Salomon," of which the real
secrets were never committed to print and which is said to contain the whole of Cabalistic
science.[430] The catechism of this same degree deals mainly with the transmutation of metals,
the Philosopher's Stone, etc.

In the Rite of Perfection as worked in France and America this Cabalistic influence is shown
in those degrees known under the name of the "Ineffable Degrees," derived from the Jewish belief
in the mystery that surrounds the Ineflable Name of God. According to the custom of the Jews,
the sacred name Jehovah or Jah-ve, composed of the four letters yod, he, vau, he, which formed
the Tetragrammaton, was never to be pronounced by the profane, who were obliged to substitute
for it the word "Adonai." The Tetragrammaton might only be uttered once a year on the Day of
Atonement by the High Priest in the Holy of Holies amid the sound of trumpets and cymbals,
which prevented the people from hearing it. It is said that in consequence of the people thus
refraining from its utterance, the true pronunciation of the name was at last lost. The Jews
further believed that the Tetragrammaton was possessed of unbounded powers. "He who pronounces
it shakes heaven and earth and inspires the very angels with astonishment and terror."[431]
The Ineffable Name thus conferred miraculous gifts; it was engraved on the rod of Moses and
enabled him to perform wonders, just as, according to the Toledot Yeshu, it conferred the same
powers on Christ.

This superstition was clearly a part of Rosicrucian tradition, for the symbol of the Tetragrammaton
within a triangle, adopted by the masonic lodges, figures in Fludd's Cabalistic system.[432]
In the "Ineffable degrees" it was invested with all the mystic awe by which it is surrounded
in Jewish theology, and, according to early American working: "Brothers and Companions of these
degrees received the name of God as it was revealed to Enoch and were sworn to pronounce it
but once in their lives."

In the alchemical version of the Rose-Croix degree referred to above the Ineffable Name is
actually invested with magical powers as in the Jewish Cabala. Ragon, after describing the
Jewish ceremony when the word Jehovah was pronounced by the High Priest in the Holy of Holies,
goes on to say that "Schem-hamm-phorasch," another term for the Tetragrammaton, forms the sacred
word of a Scotch degree, and that this belief in its mystic properties "will be found at the
head of the instructions for the third degree of the Knight of the Black Eagle, called Rose-Croix,"
thus:

     Q. What is the most powerful name of God on the pentaculum?
     A. Adonai.
     Q. What is its power?
     A. To move the Universe.

     That one of the Knights who had the good fortune to pronounce it
     cabalistically would have at his disposal the powers that inhabit
     the four elements and the celestial spirits, and would possess all
     the virtues possible to man.[433]

That this form of the Rose-Croix was of purely Jewish origin is thus clearly evident. In the
address to the candidate for initiation into the Rose-Croix degree at the Lodge of the "Contrat
Social" it is stated:

     This degree, which includes an Order of Perfect Masons, was brought
     to light by Brother R., who took it from the Kabbalistic treasure
     of the Doctor and Rabbi Néamuth, chief of the synagogue of Leyden
     in Holland, who had preserved its precious secrets and its costume,
     both of which we shall see in the same order in which he placed
     them in his mysterious Talmud.[434]

Now, we know that in the eighteenth century a society of Rosicrucian magicians had been instituted
in Florence which was believed to date back to the fifteenth century and to have been partly,
if not wholly composed of Orientals, as we shall see in the next chapter; but it seems probable
that this sect, whilst secretly inspiring the Rose-Croix masons, was itself either nameless
or concealed under a disguise. Thus in 1782 an English Freemason writes: "I have found some
rather curious MSS. in Algiers in Hebrew relating to the society of the Rosicrucians, which
exists at present under another name with the same forms. I hope, moreover to be admitted to
their knowledge."[435]

