Thirdly come Destroyers.  This was the way in which they got their name.  Navies had small
gunboats before torpedoes were used.  Then they had torpedo-boats.  Then they built torpedo-gunboats.
Finally, they built boats big enough to destroy gunboats, torpedo-boats, and torpedo-gunboats,
without, however, losing the handy use of guns and torpedoes in vessels much smaller than cruisers. And these
first men who were taught to fly on strange machines--as apart from the pioneers who had taught themselves
to fly with craft of their own construction--made progress which confounded
the sceptics.

They went in easy and leisurely fashion from stage to stage, and learned to become aviators without
difficulty, and mainly without accident.

After this, increasing in numbers from two or three to a dozen, and
from a dozen to fifty and then a hundred, the army of airmen grew
until it could be totalled in thousands.

Instead of being haphazard, the teaching of men to fly became a business. Flying schools were established;
courses of tuition were arranged; certain pilots specialised in the work of instruction. It was shown
beyond doubt that, instead of its being necessary for an aviator
to be a species of acrobat, any average man could learn to fly.

Certainly a man who intends to fly should be constitutionally sound;
this point is important.

When in an aeroplane, one passes very quickly through the air, and
such rapid movement--and also the effect of varying altitudes--entail a certain
physical strain.

A man with a weak heart might find himself affected adversely by flying; while
one whose lungs were not sound might find that his breathing was
impeded seriously by a swift passage through the air.

More than one fatality, doubtful as to its exact cause, has been
attributed to the collapse of a pilot who was not organically sound,
or who ascended when in poor health.

And here again is an important point. No man, even a normally healthy man, should attempt to pilot
a machine in flight when he is feeling unwell.

In such cases the strain of flying, and the effect of the swift motion
through the air, may cause a temporary collapse; and in the air,
when a man is alone in a machine, any slight attack of faintness may
be sufficient to bring about a fatality.

A fair judgment of speed, and an eye for distance, are very helpful to
the man who would learn to fly, and it is here that a man who has motored
a good deal, driving his own car, is at advantage at first over one
who has not. But otherwise, and writing generally, any man of average
quickness of movement, of average agility, can learn without difficulty
to control an aeroplane in flight.  Commander Porte, of the Royal Navy, went on inventing and trying
new kinds of flying boats for nearly three years before he made one good enough for its very
hard and dangerous work. He had to overcome all the troubles of aircraft and seacraft, put
together, before he succeeded in doing what no one had ever done before--making a completely
new kind of craft that would be not only seaworthy but airworthy too.  Porte's base was at
Felixstowe, near the great destroyer and submarine base at Harwich on the east coast of England.
Strangely enough, Felixstowe was a favourite summer resort of the Kaiser whenever he came to
the British Isles.  Felixstowe is within a hundred miles of the Belgian coast, where the Germans
had submarines at Ostend and Zeebrugge.  It is only fifty from the Dutch lightship on the North
Hinder Bank, where German submarines used to come up so as to make sure of their course on
their way between the English Channel and their own ports.  The neighbourhood of this lightship
naturally became a very favourite hunting ground of the new flying boats, which used to bomb
the Huns whenever one of their submarines was sighted either on or below the surface.  Forty
flying boats were launched in 1917, and forty-four submarines were bombed.  The "Porte Baby,"
as the flying boat of '17 was called, measured a hundred feet across the wings and carried
a small aeroplane, complete with its own airman, on top.  The "Porte Super-Baby" of 1918 could
lift no less than fifteen tons and was easily the strongest aircraft in the world.  The "Baby's"
crew was four--pilot, navigator, wirelesser, and engineer. EARLY STATISTICS.--CHART, KENT.

(No. 21. p. 329.)

The Registrar-General, in his Eighth Report, enters at length into the causes
which have brought about the variations in the number of marriages,
and consequently, as I need scarcely say, of births. In comparing the
marriage returns since 1754, which are given in the report, with the
history of events since that period, he certainly makes it clear,
to use his own words, that "The marriage returns in England point
out periods of prosperity little less distinctly than the funds measure
the hopes and fears of the money-market."

(p. 26.

8vo. edit.)

And that

"The great fluctuations in the marriages of
England are the results of peace after war, abundance after dearth,
high wages after want of employment, speculation after languid enterprise,
confidence after distrust, national triumphs after national disasters."

(p. 27.)

During the civil wars, the diminishing influences indicated in the
reverse of this statement were at work with an intensity unequalled
in any other period of our modern history, so that there can be no
doubt that our then "unhappy divisions" did most materially retard
the numerical increase of the population, as well as the progress
of science and the useful arts.

Such is the inevitable consequence of war: of civil war in a tenfold degree. And our parish
register books, all of which I doubt not show similar facts, place this in the most unfavourable light;
for, through the spread of nonconformity, the unsettled state of the
times, and the substitution during the protectorate of the registration
of births which might or might not be communicated to the elected parish
register, for that of baptisms which the parish priest would both celebrate
and register, the names of very many of those born into the world would
be altogether omitted from these records. It may be interesting to
show the effects of some of these causes by the subjoined extracts from the
registers themselves, which I transcribe from the Chronicon Mirabile of
the late Sir Cuthbert Sharpe.--(Vide pp. 17. 18. 22. 23. 70. 121. and
156.)

Staindrop, Durham.--"1644.

From
this time to 1646, through want of a Minister, and carelessness of ye Cleark, during ye wars,
much of ye Register is lost, only here and there a name registered."

"1652. June 14. Mem. From this time till August there was noe Minister,
soe that ye children were carried to other parishes to be baptized."


On the second War Wednesday (July 29th) the British Foreign Minister warned the German Ambassador
that the British could not be so base as not to stand by their friends if Germany attacked
them without good reason.  All through that night the staff of the Foreign Office were wonderfully
cheered up in their own work by looking across the famous Horse Guards Parade at the Admiralty,
which was ablaze with lights from roof to cellar.  The usual way, after the Royal Review that
ended the big fleet manoeuvres for the year, was to "demobilize" ships that had been specially
"mobilized" (made ready for the front) by adding Reserve men to their nucleus crews.  But this
year things were different.  War was in the very air.  So the whole fleet was kept mobilized;
and the wireless on top of the Admiralty roof was kept in constant touch with every ship and
squadron all round the Seven Seas.  By Friday night, the 31st, the whole Grand Fleet had steamed
through the Straits of Dover into the grim North Sea and on to Scapa Flow, where it was already
waiting when, four days later, it got the midnight call to arms.

By the third War Wednesday (August 5th) the Germans had invaded Belgium and France; that great
soldier and creator of new armies, Lord Kitchener, had replaced the civilian, Lord Haldane,
at the head of the War Office; Lord French's immortal first army had just got the word GO!
and a German mine-layer was already at the work which cost her own life but sank the cruiser
Amphion.

Years before the first shot was fired the French and British Navies had prepared their plans
for blockading the Austrians in the Adriatic and the Germans in the North Sea.  The French
were more than a match for the Austrians, the British more still for the Germans.  But the
Austrians had their whole navy together, while the Germans also had at least nine-tenths of
their own.  So the French and British, in their efforts to keep the seaways open for friends
and closed to enemies, had to reckon with the chances of battle as well as with those of blockade.
The Austrians never gave much trouble, except, like the Germans, with their submarines; and
after the Italians had joined us (May 1915) the Austrian Navy was hopelessly outclassed.

But the Germans were different. "Is she teaching him something?" he wondered. "What?" How could she
teach him not to care for her? His pulses quickened. He altered his position a little, which brought
him by so much nearer. "But tell me about the portrait," said Elizabeth.

Archdale

told the story, the outlines of which Elizabeth had given to Mrs.
Eveleigh.

But he told it with so many details that it seemed new to her. "Edmonson insists that the nobleman
killed in this duel was a distant relative of Sir Temple Dacre," he said, as he finished the account
of the flight and the taking of the portrait.

He told of its careful concealment afterwards lest it should identify them, and how, when the daughter's
eyes rested upon it, she had a dread of discovery, that amounted
almost to a sense of guilt.

"Poor woman!" said Elizabeth, "with the loss of her father and her
child, she could not have been very happy."

Her listener recalled that the speaker at one time in her life had not considered the loss of a husband in any
other light than a great satisfaction.

But he went on to explain that after his grandmother's death, the portrait had been concealed where
Elizabeth had discovered it. "My mother knew nothing of it," he said,
"but my father had seen it before. He told me so after that day," he
added, remembering that Elizabeth had heard Colonel's denial of any
knowledge of the portrait. "He knew whom it was a picture of, I mean,
and that we were not the Sunderland Archdales, but nothing of Edmonson's
rights; and he had looked at the portrait so little that he never
perceived the likeness to Edmonson until we all did.

Edmonson, you know, was in search of this portrait. He had heard of it from his father, who passed as the
child of the old man's only son, who died in India at about the same time that the baby and nurse
came to the grandfather's. My grandmother Archdale besought her father to take care of the child until
she could send for it, and he was better than her request.

I suppose that he could not bear to give up both his children and he hated his son-in-law. Edmonson's
father did not know his real name until after the elder Edmonson's death. Then the nurse told him the
story.

But at that time he was twenty-five; married, and established in his home, with no desire to change,
or to share his possessions.

Gerald learned the truth only when he came of age, and his capacity
for getting through with money made him think that something ought
to be made out of his colonial relatives.

He had spent his own moderate fortune before he came
here. He showed his character in his way of going to work," finished
Archdale, contemptuously.

"He could not believe that anybody would have honesty enough not to
defeat his claim unless he could clinch his proofs instantly."

"It was a
cowardly way of doing it," said Elizabeth slowly.

"Yes," he answered, and looked at her, wondering if he should learn
what she was thinking about, for it seemed as if she had only half
finished her sentence.

"Nothing seems to me stranger than the difference between people in
the same family," she said at last, almost more to herself than to him.
There was something so utterly impersonal in her tone that she seemed
to be setting forth a general trite observation rather than comparing
Edmonson with any of his relatives.

The British Navy had to help the British Army into France and take care that the Army's ever-growing
forces there, as well as on a dozen different fronts elsewhere, always had the sea-roads kept
open to many different bases over half the world.  The Seven Seas are ten times bigger than
the whole of North and South America.  Yet the Navy watched or kept in touch with every part
of all of them.  So much for space. Now for time.  Time was needed to get Kitchener's vast
new armies ready.  Millions sprang to arms.  But it would have been sheer murder to send them
to the front without many months of very hard training. So the enemy had to be kept at arm's
length for a very long time--for the whole war, indeed, because reinforcements and supplies
were always needed in vast and ever vaster quantities, both from the Mother Country and from
the Empire, Allies, and Neutrals overseas.  In addition to this the British oversea trade routes
had to be kept open and the German ones closed; fisheries protected on one side, attacked on
the other; and an immense sea service carried on for our Allies as well.

Some staggering facts and figures will be given in the chapter called "Well done!"  Here we
shall only note that the Navy, with all its Reserves and Auxiliaries, grew from two and a half
million tons of shipping to eight millions before the war was over.  This means that the Navy,
in spite of all its losses, became bigger than any other country's navy, mercantile marine,
fishing fleet, river steamers, and all other kinds of shipping, put together, since the world
began.  When we add the British mercantile marine, British shipbuilding, the British fishing
fleets, and all the shipping interests of the Empire overseas, we shall find that British sea-power
of all kinds equalled all the sea-power of all the rest of the world together.  Destroy that
sea-power and we die.

Scapa Flow in the Orkney Islands off the north of Scotland was a perfect base for the Grand
Fleet, because it was well placed to watch the way out of the North Sea through the two-hundred-mile
gap between Norway and the Shetlands, and also because the tremendous tidal currents sweeping
through it prevented submarines from sneaking about too close. In other respects the alphabet of the
Bureau is followed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE COUNTRY

The Navaho reservation comprises an extensive area in the extreme northeastern
part of Arizona and the northwestern corner of New Mexico (plate LXXXII).
The total area is over 11,000 square miles, of which about 650 square
miles are in New Mexico; but it would be difficult to find a region
of equal size and with an equal population where so large a proportion
of the land is so nearly worthless.

This condition has had an important effect on the people and their
arts, and especially on their houses.

The region may be roughly characterized as a vast sandy plain, arid
in the extreme; or rather as two such plains, separated by a chain
of mountains running northwest and southeast.

In the southern part of the reservation this mountain range is known
as the Choiskai mountains, and here the top is flat and mesa-like in
character, dotted with little lakes and covered with giant pines,
which in the summer give it a park-like aspect.

The general elevation of this plateau is a little less than 9,000 feet above the sea and about 3,000 feet
above the valleys or plains east and west of it.

The continuation of the range to the northwest, separated from the
Choiskai only by a high pass, closed in winter by deep snow, is known
as the Tunicha mountains.

The summit here is a sharp ridge with pronounced slopes and is from 9,000 to 9,400 feet high. On the west
there are numerous small streams, which, rising near the summit,
course down the steep slopes and finally discharge through Canyon
Chelly into the great Chinlee valley, which is the western of the
two valleys referred to above.

The eastern
slope is more pronounced than the western, and its streams are so small
and insignificant that they are hardly worthy of mention.

Still farther to the northwest, and not separated from the Tunicha except
by a drawing in or narrowing of the mountain mass, with no depression
of the summit, is another part of the same range, which bears a separate
name.

It is known as the Lukachukai mountains. Here something of the range
character is lost, and the uplift becomes a confused mass, a single great
pile, with a maximum altitude of over 9,400 feet.

Northwest of this point the range breaks down into Chinlee valley, but directly
to the north is another uplift, called the Carriso mountains.

It
is a single mass, separated from the range proper by a comparatively low
area of less than 7,000 feet altitude, while the Carriso itself is
over 9,400 feet above the sea.

The western and northwestern parts of the reservation might also be
classed as mountainous.

Here there is a great
mesa or elevated table-land, cut and gashed by innumerable canyons
and gorges, and with a general elevation of 7,500 to 8,000 feet.

Throughout nearly its whole extent it is impassable to wagons.

The valleys to which reference has been made are the Chinlee on
the west and the Chaco on the east of the principal mountain range
described. Both run nearly due north, and the former has a fall of
about 2,000 feet from the divide, near the southern reservation line, to the northern
boundary, a distance of about 85 miles. Chaco valley heads farther south
and discharges into San Juan river within the reservation. It has
less fall than the Chinlee. Both valleys are shown on the maps
as occupied by rivers, but the rivers materialize only after heavy
rains; at all other times there is only a dry, sandy channel. Chaco
“river,” which heads in the continental divide, carries more water
than the Chelly, which occupies Chinlee valley, and is more often
found to contain a little water.

The valleys have a general
altitude of 5,000 to 6,000 feet above the sea.

The base of the mountain range has an average breadth of only 12 or
15 miles, and it is a pronounced impediment to east-and-west communication.
It is probably on this account that the Navaho are divided into two principal
bands, under different leaders. Those of one band seldom travel in
the territory of the other. The Navaho of the west, formerly commanded
by old Ganamucho (now deceased), have all the advantages in regard
to location, and on the whole are a finer body of men than those of
the east.g with such German subjects as
are in the city. When these stories began to circulate certain elements
of the population took prompt and drastic action against the German-owned
shops of the city.  The Königsberg did a good deal of damage
to merchantmen and sank the much weaker British light cruiser Pegasus, which was caught refitting
at Zanzibar and was pounded into scrap iron with the loss of half her crew.  But when the Königsberg
made off, probably fearing the arrival of some avenging British, the Pegasus still had her
colours flying, not from the mast, for that was shot away, but in the steadfast hands of two
undauntable Marines.

