One more human story before I come to Muir's part. It was during the latter half of the voyage,
and after our discovery of Glacier Bay. The climax of the trip, so far as the missionary interests
were concerned, was our visit to the Chilcat and Chilcoot natives on Lynn Canal, the most northern
tribes of the Alexandrian Archipelago. Here reigned the proudest and worst old savage of Alaska,
Chief Shathitch. His wealth was very great in Indian treasures, and he was reputed to have
cached away in different places several houses full of blankets, guns, boxes of beads, ancient
carved pipes, spears, knives and other valued heirlooms. He was said to have stored away over
one hundred of the elegant Chilcat blankets woven by hand from the hair of the mountain goat.
His tribe was rich and unscrupulous. Its members were the middle-men between the whites and
the Indians of the Interior. They did not allow these Indians to come to the coast, but took
over the mountains articles purchased from the whites--guns, ammunition, blankets, knives and
so forth--and bartered them for furs. It was said that they claimed to be the manufacturers
of these wares and so charged for them what prices they pleased. They had these Indians of
the Interior in a bondage of fear, and would not allow them to trade directly with the white
men. Thus they carried out literally the story told of Hudson Bay traffic,--piling beaver skins
to the height of a ten-dollar Hudson Bay musket as the price of the musket. They were the most
quarrelsome and warlike of the tribes of Alaska, and their villages were full of slaves procured
by forays upon the coasts of Vancouver Island, Puget Sound, and as far south as the mouth of
the Columbia River. I was eager to visit these large and untaught tribes, and establish a mission
among them.

About the first of November we came in sight of the long, low-built village of Yin-des-tuk-ki.
As we paddled up the winding channel of the Chilcat River we saw great excitement in the town.
We had hoisted the American flag, as was our custom, and had put on our best apparel for the
occasion. When we got within long musket-shot of the village we saw the native men come rushing
from their houses with their guns in their hands and mass in front of the largest house upon
the beach. Then we were greeted by what seemed rather too warm a reception--a shower of bullets
falling unpleasantly around us. Instinctively Muir and I ceased to paddle, but Tow-a-att commanded,
"Ut-ha, ut-ha!--pull, pull!" and slowly, amid the dropping bullets, we zigzagged our way up
the channel towards the village. As we drew near the shore a line of runners extended down
the beach to us, keeping within shouting distance of each other. Then came the questions like
bullets--"Gusu-wa-eh?--Who are you? Whence do you come? What is your business here?" And Stickeen
John shouted back the reply:

"A great preacher-chief and a great ice-chief have come to bring you a good message."

The answer was shouted back along the line, and then returned a message of greeting and welcome.
We were to be the guests of the chief of Yin-des-tuk-ki, old Don-na-wuk (Silver Eye), so called
because he was in the habit of wearing on all state occasions a huge pair of silver-bowed spectacles
which a Russian officer had given him. He confessed he could not see through them, but thought
they lent dignity to his countenance. We paddled slowly up to the village, and Muir and I,
watching with interest, saw the warriors all disappear. As our prow touched the sand, however,
here they came, forty or fifty of them, without their guns this time, but charging down upon
us with war-cries, "Hoo-hooh, hoo-hooh," as if they were going to take us prisoners. Dashing
into the water they ranged themselves along each side of the canoe; then lifting up our canoe
with us in it they rushed with excited cries up the bank to the chief's house and set us down
at his door. It was the Thlinget way of paying us honor as great guests.

Then we were solemnly ushered into the presence of Don-na-wuk. His house was large, covering
about fifty by sixty feet of ground. The interior was built in the usual fashion of a chief's
house--carved corner posts, a square of gravel in the center of the room for the fire surrounded
by great hewn cedar planks set on edge; a platform of some six feet in width running clear
around the room; then other planks on edge and a high platform, where the chieftain's household
goods were stowed and where the family took their repose. A brisk fire was burning in the middle
of the room; and after a short palaver, with gifts of tobacco and rice to the chief, it was
announced that he would pay us the distinguished honor of feasting us first.

It was a never-to-be-forgotten banquet. We were seated on the lower platform with our feet
towards the fire, and before Muir and me were placed huge washbowls of blue Hudson Bay ware.
Before each of our native attendants was placed a great carved wooden trough, holding about
as much as the washbowls. We had learned enough Indian etiquette to know that at each course
our respective vessels were to be filled full of food, and we were expected to carry off what
we could not devour. It was indeed a "feast of fat things." The first course was what, for
the Indian, takes the place of bread among the whites,--dried salmon. It was served, a whole
washbowlful for each of us, with a dressing of seal-grease. Muir and I adroitly manoeuvred
so as to get our salmon and seal-grease served separately; for our stomachs had not been sufficiently
trained to endure that rancid grease. This course finished, what was left was dumped into receptacles
in our canoe and guarded from the dogs by young men especially appointed for that purpose.
Our washbowls were cleansed and the second course brought on. This consisted of the back fat
of the deer, great, long hunks of it, served with a gravy of seal-grease. The third course
was little Russian potatoes about the size of walnuts, dished out to us, a washbowlful, with
a dressing of seal-grease. The final course was the only berry then in season, the long fleshy
apple of the wild rose mellowed with frost, served to us in the usual quantity with the invariable
sauce of seal-grease.

"Mon, mon!" said Muir aside to me, "I'm fashed we'll be floppin' aboot i' the sea, whiles,
wi' flippers an' forked tails."

When we had partaken of as much of this feast of fat things as our civilized stomachs would
stand, it was suddenly announced that we were about to receive a visit from the great chief
of the Chilcats and the Chilcoots, old Chief Shathitch (Hard-to-Kill). In order to properly
receive His Majesty, Muir and I and our two chiefs were each given a whole bale of Hudson Bay
blankets for a couch. Shathitch made us wait a long time, doubtless to impress us with his
dignity as supreme chief.

The heat of the fire after the wind and cold of the day made us very drowsy. We fought off
sleep, however, and at last in came stalking the biggest chief of all Alaska, clothed in his
robe of state, which was an elegant chinchilla blanket; and upon its yellow surface, as the
chief slowly turned about to show us what was written thereon, we were astonished to see printed
in black letters these words, "To Chief Shathitch, from his friend, William H. Seward!" We
learned afterwards that Seward, in his voyage of investigation, had penetrated to this far-off
town, had been received in royal state by the old chief and on his return to the States had
sent back this token of his appreciation of the chief's hospitality. Evidently this was no time for
an announcement, or congratulations and sensations.

But it was just as well to have the blue diamond safe on one's hand, even if it were the right
hand instead of the left.

* * * * *

"'Your mother dangerously injured in motor accident,'" she read. "'Asking to see you. Come without
delay. Reeves.'"

* * * * *

"Oh, how very sad!" breathed Billie. "How awful if she should be disfigured! But I do hope not."

Doran
did not remember to thank his love for her solicitude. He got up, not frozen now, but a little
dazed. It occurred to Billie that he had never looked so handsome, so much a man. She felt
that he was gathering himself together. "I'll telephone to Omallaha for a special train to connect
with the limited at Chicago," he said. "By the time I can see the Colonel and get off it ought
to be ready. Yes, I ought to catch the limited that way. It's awful to leave you like this,
but I must. I'll take you to your aunt, and--who's got the next dance with you?"
"Major Naylor," she answered, slightly injured, for not ten minutes
ago he had been looking at her card. He ought to have remembered every
name on it and in the right order.

"Well, he'll come to you in a
minute. Trust him not to lose a second! And--you'll write to me?"

"Of
course; you'll wire as soon as you can, how your mother is--and everything?
On Monday I shall be back in Chicago."

"I'll wire the moment I can,"
Max assured her. "You know the address in New York?"

"Oh, yes, everybody
knows the beautiful Mrs. Doran's address. I'll write or telegraph
every day. My heart will be with you."

He squeezed her hand so desperately
that she could have screamed with pain from the pressure of the blue
diamond.

 THE DISCOVERY

MOONLIGHT IN GLACIER BAY

 To heaven swells a mighty psalm of praise;
   Its music-sheets are glaciers, vast and white.
 Sky-piercing peaks the voiceless chorus raise,
   To fill with ecstasy the wond'ring night.

 Complete, with every part in sweet accord,
   Th' adoring breezes waft it up, on wings
 Of beauty-incense, giving to the Lord
   The purest sacrifice glad Nature brings.

 The list'ning stars with rapture beat and glow;
   The moon forgets her high, eternal calm
 To shout her gladness to the sea below,
   Whose waves are silver tongues to join the psalm.

 Those everlasting snow-fields are not cold;
   This icy solitude no barren waste.
 The crystal masses burn with love untold;
   The glacier-table spreads a royal feast.

 Fairweather! Crillon! Warders at Heaven's gate!
   Hoar-headed priests of Nature's inmost shrine!
 Strong seraph forms in robes immaculate!
   Draw me from earth; enlighten, change, refine;

 Till I, one little note in this great song,
   Who seem a blot upon th' unsullied white,
 No discord make--a note high, pure and strong--
   Set in the silent music of the night.

IV

THE DISCOVERY

The nature-study part of the voyage was woven in with the missionary trip as intimately as
warp with woof. No island, rock, forest, mountain or glacier which we passed, near or far,
was neglected. We went so at our own sweet will, without any set time or schedule, that we
were constantly finding objects and points of surprise and interest. When we landed, the algæ,
which sometimes filled the little harbors, the limpets and lichens of the rocks, the fucus
pods that snapped beneath our feet, the grasses of the beach, the moss and shrubbery among
the trees, and, more than all, the majestic forests, claimed attention and study. Muir was
one of the most expert foresters this country has ever produced. He was never at a loss. The
luxuriant vegetation of this wet coast filled him with admiration, and he never took a walk
from camp but he had a whole volume of things to tell me, and he was constantly bringing in
trophies of which he was prouder than any hunter of his antlers. Now it was a bunch of ferns
as high as his head; now a cluster of minute and wonderfully beautiful moss blossoms; now a
curious fungous growth; now a spruce branch heavy with cones; and again he would call me into
the forest to see a strange and grotesque moss formation on a dead stump, looking like a tree
standing upon its head. Thus, although his objective was the glaciers, his thorough knowledge
of botany and his interest in that study made every camp just the place he wished to be. He
always claimed that there was more of pure ethics and even of moral evil and good to be learned
in the wilderness than from any book or in any abode of man.

Muir was a devout theist. The Fatherhood of God and the Unity of God, the immanence of God
in nature and His management of all the affairs of the universe, was his constantly reiterated
belief. He saw design in many things which the ordinary naturalist overlooks, such as the symmetry
of an island, the balancing branches of a tree, the harmony of colors in a group of flowers,
the completion of a fully rounded landscape. In his view, the Creator of it all saw every beautiful
and sublime thing from every viewpoint, and had thus formed it, not merely for His own delight,
but for the delectation and instruction of His human children.

"Look at that, now," he would say, when, on turning a point, a wonderful vista of island-studded
sea between mountains, with one of Alaska's matchless sunsets at the end, would wheel into
sight. "Why, it looks as if these giants of God's great army had just now marched into their
stations; every one placed just right, just right! What landscape gardening! What a scheme
of things! And to think that He should plan to bring us feckless creatures here at the right
moment, and then flash such glories at us! Man, we're not worthy of such honor!"

Thus Muir was always discovering to me things which I would never have seen myself and opening
up to me new avenues of knowledge, delight and adoration. There was something so intimate in
his theism that it purified, elevated and broadened mine, even when I could not agree with
him. His constant exclamation when a fine landscape would burst upon our view, or a shaft of
light would pierce the clouds and glorify a mountain, was, "Praise God from whom all blessings
flow!"

Two or three great adventures stand out prominently in this wonderful voyage of discovery.
Two weeks from home brought us to Icy Straits and the homes of the Hoonah tribe. Here the knowledge
of the way on the part of our crew ended. We put into the large Hoonah village on Chichagof
Island. After the usual preaching and census-taking, we took aboard a sub-chief of the Hoonahs,
who was a noted seal hunter and, therefore, able to guide us among the ice-floes of the mysterious
Glacier Bay of which we had heard. Vancouver's chart gave us no intimation of any inlet whatever;
but the natives told of vast masses of floating ice, of a constant noise of thunder when they
crashed from the glaciers into the sea; and also of fearsome bays and passages full of evil
spirits which made them very perilous to navigate.

In one bay there was said to be a giant devil-fish with arms as long as a tree, lurking in
malignant patience, awaiting the passage that way of an unwary canoe, when up would flash those
terrible arms with their thousand suckers and, seizing their prey, would drag down the men
to the bottom of the sea, there to be mangled and devoured by the horrid beak. Another deep
fiord was the abode of Koosta-kah, the Otter-man, the mischievous Puck of Indian lore, who
was waiting for voyagers to land and camp, when he would seize their sleeping forms and transport
them a dozen miles in a moment, or cradle them on the tops of the highest trees. Again there
was a most rapacious and ferocious killer-whale in a piece of swift water, whose delight it
was to take into his great, tooth-rimmed jaws whole canoes with their crews of men, mangling
them and gulping them down as a single mouthful. Many were these stories of fear told us at
the Hoonah village the night before we started to explore the icy bay, and our credulous Stickeens
gave us rather broad hints that it was time to turn back.

"There are no natives up in that region; there is nothing to hunt; there is no gold there;
why do you persist in this cultus coly (aimless journey)? You are likely to meet death and
nothing else if you go into that dangerous region."

All these stories made us the more eager to explore the wonders beyond, and we hastened away
from Hoonah with our guide aboard. A day's sail brought us to a little, heavily wooded island
near the mouth of Glacier Bay. This we named Pleasant Island.

As we broke camp in the morning our guide said: "We must take on board a supply of dry wood
here, as there is none beyond."

Leaving this last green island we steered northwest into the great bay, the country of ice
and bare rocks. Muir's excitement was increasing every moment, and as the majestic arena opened
before us and the Muir, Geicke, Pacific and other great glaciers (all nameless as yet) began
to appear, he could hardly contain himself. He was impatient of any delay, and was constantly
calling to the crew to redouble their efforts and get close to these wonders. Now the marks
of recent glaciation showed plainly. Here was a conical island of gray granite, whose rounded
top and symmetrical shoulders were worn smooth as a Scotch monument by grinding glaciers. Here
was a great mountain slashed sheer across its face, showing sharp edge and flat surface as
if a slab of mountain size had been sawed from it. Yonder again loomed a granite range whose
huge breasts were rounded and polished by the resistless sweep of that great ice mass which
Vancouver saw filling the bay.

Soon the icebergs were charging down upon us with the receding tide and dressing up in compact
phalanx when the tide arose. First would come the advance guard of smaller bergs, with here
and there a house-like mass of cobalt blue with streaks of white and deeper recesses of ultra-marine;
here we passed an eight-sided, solid figure of bottle-green ice; there towered an antlered
formation like the horns of a stag. Now we must use all caution and give the larger icebergs
a wide berth. They are treacherous creatures, these icebergs. You may be paddling along by
a peaceful looking berg, sleeping on the water as mild and harmless as a lamb; when suddenly
he will take a notion to turn over, and up under your canoe will come a spear of ice, impaling
it and lifting it and its occupants skyward; then, turning over, down will go canoe and men
to the depths.

Our progress up the sixty miles of Glacier Bay was very slow. Three nights we camped on the
bare granite rock before we reached the limit of the bay. All vegetation had disappeared; hardly
a bunch of grass was seen. The only signs of former life were the sodden and splintered spruce
and fir stumps that projected here and there from the bases of huge gravel heaps, the moraine
matter of the mighty ice mass that had engulfed them. They told the story of great forests
which had once covered this whole region, until the great sea of ice of the second glacial
period overwhelmed and ground them down, and buried them deep under its moraine matter. When
we landed there were no level spots on which to pitch our tent and no sandy beaches or gravel
beds in which to sink our tent-poles. I learned from Muir the gentle art of sleeping on a rock,
curled like a squirrel around a boulder.

We passed by Muir Glacier on the other side of the bay, seeking to attain the extreme end of
the great fiord. We estimated the distance by the tide and our rate of rowing, tracing the
shore-line and islands as we went along and getting the points of the compass from our little
pocket instrument.

