In concluding this portion of our subject, we will merely refer to the fact that neither the
Celts of Gaul or Britain, nor those of Ireland, ever opposed an organized fleet to the numerous
hostile naval armaments by which their country was invaded. When the Roman fleet, commanded
by Caesar, landed in Great Britain, when the innumerable Danish expeditions attacked Ireland,
whenever the Anglo-Normans arrived in the island during the four hundred years of the colony
of the Pale, we never hear of a Celtic fleet opposed to the invaders. Italian, Spanish, and
French fleets came in oftentimes to the help of the Irish; yet never do we read that the island
had a single vessel to join the friendly expedition. We may safely conclude, then, that the
race has never felt any inclination for sending large expeditions to sea, whether for extensive
trading, or for political and warlike purposes. They have always used the vessels of other
nations, and it is no surprise, therefore, to find them now crowding English ships in their
migrations to colonize other countries. It is one of the propensities of the race. 

This is made good by experience, which can from the ashes of a plant revive the plant, and from
its cinders recall it into its stalk and leaves again.<67> What the
art of man can do in these inferior pieces, what blasphemy is it to
affirm the finger of God cannot do in those more perfect and sensible
structures?

This is that mystical philosophy, from whence no true scholar becomes an
atheist, but from the visible effects of nature grows up a real divine,
and beholds not in a dream, as Ezekiel, but in an ocular and visible
object, the types of his resur- rection.

<i>Sect.</i> 49.--Now, the necessary mansions of our restored selves
are those two contrary and incompatible places we call heaven and
hell.

To define them, or strictly to determine what and where these are, surpasseth my divinity. That elegant apostle,
which seemed to have a glimpse of heaven, hath left but a negative descrip- tion
thereof; which "neither eye hath seen, nor ear hath heard, nor can
enter into the heart of man:" he was translated out of himself to
behold it; but, being re- turned into himself, could not express it.

Saint John's description by emeralds, chrysolites, and precious stones,
is too weak to express the material heaven we behold. Briefly, therefore,
where the soul hath the full measure and complement of happiness; where
the boundless appetite of that spirit remains completely satisfied that it
can neither desire addition nor alteration; that, I think, is truly heaven:
and this can only be in the enjoyment of that essence, whose infinite goodness
is able to terminate the desires of itself, and the unsatiable wishes of
ours. Wherever God will thus manifest him- self, there is heaven, though within
the circle of this sensible world. Thus, the soul of man may be in
heaven anywhere, even within the limits of his own proper body; and when
it ceaseth to live in the body it may remain in its own soul, that
is, its Creator.

And thus we may say that Saint Paul, whether in the body or out of the body, was yet in heaven.
To place it in the empyreal, or beyond the tenth sphere, is to forget the world's destruction; for when this sensible
world shall be destroyed, all shall then be here as it is now there,
an empyreal heaven, a <i>quasi</i> vacuity; when to ask where heaven is,
is to demand where the presence of God is, or where we have the glory
of that happy vision.

Moses, that was bred up in all the learning of the Egyptians, committed a gross absurdity in philo- sophy,
when with these eyes of flesh he desired to see God, and petitioned his Maker, that is truth itself,
to a contra- diction. Those that imagine heaven and hell neighbours, and conceive a vicinity between
those two extremes, upon consequence of the parable, where Dives discoursed
with Lazarus, in Abraham's bosom, do too grossly con- ceive of those
glorified creatures, whose eyes shall easily out-see the sun, and
behold without perspective the extremest distances: for if there shall
be, in our glori- fied eyes, the faculty of sight and reception of
objects, I could think the visible species there to be in as un- limitable
a way as now the intellectual.

I grant that two bodies placed beyond the tenth sphere, or in a vacuity,
according to Aristotle's philosophy, could not behold each other, because
there wants a body or medium to hand and transport the visible rays
of the object unto the sense; but when there shall be a general defect of
either medium to convey, or light to prepare and dispose that medium,
and yet a perfect vision, we must suspend the rules of our philosophy,
and make all good by a more absolute piece of opticks.

<i>Sect.</i> 50.--I cannot tell how to say that fire is the essence
of hell; I know not what to make of purgatory, or conceive a flame
that can either prey upon, or purify the substance of a soul. Those flames
of sulphur, men- tioned in the scriptures, I take not to be understood
of this present hell, but of that to come, where fire shall make up the
complement of our tortures, and have a body or subject whereon to
manifest its tyranny.

Some who have had the honour to be textuary in divinity are of opinion it shall be the same specifical fire with
ours. This is hard to conceive, yet can I make good how even that may prey upon our bodies, and yet
not consume us: for in this material world, there are bodies that persist invincible in the
powerfulest flames; and though, by the action of fire, they fall into ignition and liquation, yet
will they never suffer a destruction.

I would gladly know how Moses, with an actual fire, calcined or burnt
the golden calf into powder: for that mystical metal of gold, whose solary
and celestial nature I admire, ex- posed unto the violence of fire, grows
only hot, and liquefies, but consumeth not; so when the consumable
and volatile pieces of our bodies shall be refined into a more impregnable
and fixed temper, like gold, though they suffer from the action of
flames, they shall never perish, but lie immortal in the arms of
fire.

And surely, if this flame must suffer only by the action of this element, there will many bodies escape; and
not only heaven, but earth will not be at an end, but rather a beginning. For at present it is not earth, but
a composition of fire, water, earth, and air; but at that time, spoiled of these
ingredients, it shall appear in a substance more like itself, its ashes.
Philosophers that opinioned the world's destruction by fire, did never
dream of annihilation, which is beyond the power of sublunary causes;
for the last and proper action of that element is but vitrification,
or a reduction of a body into glass; and therefore some of our chymicks
facetiously affirm, that, at the last fire, all shall be crystalized
and reverberated into glass, which is the utmost action of that element.
Nor need we fear this term, annihilation, or wonder that God will destroy
the works of his crea- tion: for man subsisting, who is, and will then
truly appear, a microcosm, the world cannot be said to be destroyed.

For the eyes of God, and perhaps also of our glorified selves, shall as really behold and contem- plate the
world, in its epitome or contracted essence, as now it doth at large
and in its dilated substance.

In the seed of a plant, to the eyes of God, and to the under- standing of man, there exists, though
in an invisible way, the perfect leaves, flowers, and fruit thereof; for things that are
in <i>posse</i> to the sense, are actually existent to the understanding. Thus God beholds all
things, who contemplates as fully his works in their epitome as in their
full volume, and beheld as amply the whole world, in that little compendium
of the sixth day, as in the scattered and dilated pieces of those five
before.

<i>Sect.</i> 51.--Men commonly set forth the torments of hell by fire,
and the extremity of corporal afflictions, and describe hell in the
same method that Mahomet doth heaven.

This indeed makes a noise, and drums in popular ears: but if this be the
terrible piece thereof, it is not worthy to stand in diameter with
heaven, whose happiness consists in that part that is best able to com- prehend
it, that immortal essence, that translated divinity and colony of God,
the soul. Surely, though we place hell under earth, the devil's walk and purlieu
is about it.

Men speak too popularly who place it in those flaming mountains, which
to grosser apprehensions re- present hell. The heart of man is the place
the devils dwell in; I feel sometimes a hell within myself; Lucifer keeps his
court in my breast; Legion is revived in me.

There are as many hells as Anaxagoras<68> conceited worlds. There was more than one hell in
Magdalene, when there were seven devils; for every devil is an hell unto himself,<69> he holds
enough of torture in his own <i>ubi</i>; and needs not the misery of
cir- cumference to afflict him: and thus, a distracted con- science
here is a shadow or introduction unto hell here- after.

Who can but pity the merciful intention of those hands that do destroy
themselves? The devil, were it in his power, would do the like; which being
im- possible, his miseries are endless, and he suffers most in that attribute
wherein he is impassible, his im- mortality.

<i>Sect.</i> 52.--I thank God, and with joy I mention it, I was never afraid of hell,
nor ever grew pale at the description of that place. I have so fixed
my contempla- tions on heaven, that I have almost forgot the idea
of hell; and am afraid rather to lose the joys of the one, than endure
the misery of the other: to be deprived of them is a perfect hell,
and needs methinks no addition to complete our afflictions.

That terrible term hath never detained me from sin, nor do I owe any good
action to the name thereof.

I fear God, yet am not afraid of him; his mercies make me ashamed of my
sins, before his judgments afraid thereof: these are the forced and secondary
method of his wisdom, which he useth but as the last remedy, and upon
provocation;-- a course rather to deter the wicked, than incite the
virtuous to his worship.

I can hardly
think there was ever any scared into heaven: they go the fairest way
to heaven that would serve God without a hell: other mercenaries, that
crouch unto him in fear of hell, though they term themselves the servants,
are indeed but the slaves, of the Almighty.

<i>Sect.</i> 53.--And to be true, and speak my soul, when I survey the
occurrences of my life, and call into account the finger of God,
I can perceive nothing but an abyss and mass of mercies, either in
general to mankind, or in particular to myself.

And, whether out of the prejudice of my affection, or an inverting and
partial conceit of his mercies, I know not,--but those which others
term crosses, afflictions, judgments, misfortunes, to me, who inquire
further into them than their visible effects, they both appear, and
in event have ever proved, the secret and dissembled favours of his
affection.

It is a singular piece of wisdom to apprehend truly, and without passion, the
works of God, and so well to distinguish his justice from his mercy as
not to miscall those noble attributes; yet it is likewise an honest
piece of logick so to dispute and argue the proceedings of God as
to distinguish even his judgments into mercies.

For God is merciful unto all, because better to the worst than the best deserve;
and to say he punisheth none in this world, though it be a paradox,
is no absurdity. To one that hath com- mitted murder, if the judge
should only ordain a fine, it were a madness to call this a punishment,
and to re- pine at the sentence, rather than admire the clemency of the judge.
Thus, our offences being mortal, and deserving not only death but
damnation, if the goodness of God be content to traverse and pass
them over with a loss, misfortune, or disease; what frenzy were it
to term this a punishment, rather than an extremity of mercy, and
to groan under the rod of his judgments rather than admire the sceptre
of his mercies!

There- fore to adore, honour, and admire him, is a debt of gratitude due from the obligation of our nature,
states, and conditions: and with these thoughts he that knows them best will not deny that I adore
him. That I obtain heaven, and the bliss thereof, is accidental, and not the intended work of my devotion;
it being a felicity I can neither think to deserve nor scarce in
modesty to expect. For these two ends of us all, either as rewards or punishments,
are mercifully ordained and disproportionably disposed unto our actions;
the one being so far beyond our deserts, the other so infinitely below
our demerits.

<i>Sect.</i> 54.--There is no salvation to those that believe not
in Christ; that is, say some, since his nativity, and, as divinity
affirmeth, before also; which makes me much apprehend the end of
those honest worthies and philosophers which died before his incarnation.

It is hard to place those
souls in hell, whose worthy lives do teach us virtue on earth. Methinks,
among those many subdivisions of hell, there might have been one limbo
left for these. What a strange vision will it be to see their poetical
fictions converted into verities, and their imagined and fancied
furies into real devils!

How strange to them will sound the history of Adam, when they shall suffer for
him they never heard of! When they who derive their genealogy from
the gods, shall know they are the unhappy issue of sinful man! It is an
insolent part of reason, to controvert the works of God, or question
the justice of his proceedings.

Could humility teach others, as it hath instructed me, to con- template the infinite and incomprehensible
distance be- twixt the Creator and the creature; or did we seriously perpend
that one simile of St Paul, "shall the vessel say to the potter, why hast
thou made me thus?" it would prevent these arrogant disputes of reason:
nor would we argue the definitive sentence of God, either to heaven
or hell.

Men that live according to the right rule and law of reason, live
but in their own kind, as beasts do in theirs; who justly obey the
prescript of their natures, and therefore cannot reasonably demand
a reward of their actions, as only obeying the natural dictates of
their reason.

It will, therefore, and must, at last appear, that all salvation is through Christ; which verity, I fear,
these great examples of virtue must con- firm, and make it good how the
perfectest actions of earth have no title or claim unto heaven.

<i>Sect.</i> 55.--Nor truly do I think the lives of these, or of any other, were
ever correspondent, or in all points conformable, unto their doctrines.
It is evident that Aristotle transgressed the rule of his own ethicks;<70>
the stoicks, that condemn passion, and command a man to laugh in Phalaris's<71>
bull, could not endure without a groan a fit of the stone or colick.

The scepticks, that affirmed they knew nothing,<72> even in that opinion
con- fute themselves, and thought they knew more than all the world
beside. Diogenes I hold to be the most vain- glorious man of his time,
and more ambitious in refus- ing all honours, than Alexander in rejecting
none. Vice and the devil put a fallacy upon our reasons; and, provoking
us too hastily to run from it, entangle and profound us deeper in it.

The duke of Venice, that weds himself unto the sea, by a ring of gold,<73> I
will not accuse of prodigality, because it is a solemnity of good
use and consequence in the state: but the philoso- pher, that threw
his money into the sea to avoid avarice, was a notorious prodigal.<74>
There is no road or ready way to virtue; it is not an easy point of
art to dis- entangle ourselves from this riddle or web of sin.

To perfect virtue, as to religion, there is required a <i>panoplia</i>,
or complete armour; that whilst we lie at close ward against one vice, we
lie not open to the veney<75> of another. And indeed wiser discretions, that
have the thread of reason to conduct them, offend without a pardon;
whereas under heads may stumble without dishonour.

There go so many circumstances to piece up one good action, that it
is a lesson to be good, and we are forced to be virtuous by the book.

Again, the practice of men holds not an equal pace, yea and often runs counter to their theory; we naturally
know what is good, but naturally pursue what is evil: the rhetorick wherewith I persuade another cannot persuade
myself. There is a depraved appetite in us, that will with patience
hear the learned instructions of reason, but yet perform no further
than agrees to its own irregular humour. In brief, we all are monsters;
that is, a com- position of man and beast: wherein we must endeavour
to be as the poets fancy that wise man, Chiron; that is, to have the
region of man above that of beast, and sense to sit but at the feet
of reason. It seems that the bards or poets were accused of insolence, rapacity,
and of selling their services to princes and nobles, instead of calling them to account for
their misdeeds.

Columba openly undertook their defence in the general assembly of the nation. Himself a poet,
he loved their art, and could not consent to see his native country deprived of it. Such a
deprivation in his eyes would almost have seemed a sacrilege.

"He represented," says Montalembert, "that care must be taken not to pull up the good corn
with the tares, that the general exile  of the poets would be the death of a venerable antiquity,
and of that poetry so dear to the country, and so useful to those who knew how to employ it.
The king and assembly yielded at length, under condition that the number should be limited,
and their profession laid under certain rules."

Dallan Fergall, the chief of the corporation, composed his "Amhra," or Praise of Columbkill,
as a mark of gratitude from the whole order. That the works of Celtic poets possessed real
literary merit, we have the authority of Spenser for believing. The author of the "Faerie Queene"
was not the friend of the Irish, whom he assisted in plundering and destroying under Elizabeth.
He could only judge of their books from English translations, not being sufficiently acquainted
with the language to understand its niceties. Yet he had to acknowledge that their poems "savoured
of sweet wit and good invention, but skilled not of the goodly ornaments of poetry; yet were
they sprinkled with some pretty flowers of their natural device, which gave good grace and
comeliness to them."

He objected, it is true, to the patriotism of their verse, and pretended that they "seldom
choose the doings of good men for the argument of their poems," and became "dangerous and desperate
in disobedience and rebellious daring." But this accusation is high praise in our eyes, as
showing that the Irish bards of Spenser's time praised and glorified those who proved most
courageous in resisting English invasion, and stood firmly on the side of their race against
the power of a great queen.

A poet, it seems, required twelve years of study to be master of his art. One-third of that
time was devoted to practising the  "Teinim Laegha," by which he obtained the power of understanding
every thing that it was proper for him to speak of or to say. The next third was employed in
learning the "Imas Forosnadh," by which he was enabled to communicate thoroughly his knowledge
to other pupils. Finally, the last three years were occupied in "Dichedal," or improvisation,
so as to be able to speak in verse on all subjects of his study at a moment's notice.

There were, it appears, seven kinds of verse; and the poet was bound to possess a critical
knowledge of them, so as to be a judge of his art, and to pronounce on the compositions submitted
to him.

If called upon by any king or chieftain, he was required to relate instantly, seven times fifty
stories, namely, five times fifty prime stories, and twice fifty secondary stories.

The prime stories were destructions and preyings, courtships, battles, navigations, tragedies
or deaths, expeditions, elopements, and conflagrations.

All those literary compositions were historic tales; and they were not composed for mere amusement,
but possessed in the eyes of learned men a real authority in point of fact. If fancy was permitted
to adorn them, the facts themselves were to remain unaltered with their chief circumstances.
Hence the writers of the various annals of Ireland do not scruple to quote many poems or other
tales as authority for the facts of history which they relate.

And such also was heroic poetry among the Greeks. The Hellenic philosophers, historians, and
geographers of later times always quoted Homer and Hesiod as authorities for the facts they
related in their scientific works. The whole first book of the geography of Strabo, one of
the most statistical and positive works of antiquity, has for its object the vindication of
the geography of Homer, whom Strabo seems to have considered as a reliable authority on almost
every possible subject.

Our limits forbid us to speak more in detail of Celtic historians and poets. We have said enough
to show that both had important state duties to perform in the social system of the country,
and, while keeping within due bounds, they were esteemed by all as men of great weight and
use to the nation. Besides the field of genealogy and history allotted to them to cultivate,
their very office tended to promote the love of virtue, and to check immorality and vice. They
were careful to watch over the acts and inclinations of their princes and chieftains, seldom
failing to brand them with infamy if guilty of crimes, or crown them with honor when they had
deserved well of the nation. Suiting action to the words, he thrust my packet into the hands of the astonished supervisor.
Then, turning sharply on his heel, he flung back, "Advise the Secretary
of War that I shall report to him in person in less than one hour."

As we stepped through the entrance of the Pioneer, he shot a final look at the official
and laughed heartily at his sudden accession of energy. We had not
the slightest doubt that Hart's orders would be immediately and efficiently
carried out.

* * * * *

In precisely forty-five minutes, we stood before the desk of Lawrence
Simler, then Secretary of War, in Washington.

"You are Mr. Hartley Jones?" inquired the stern-visaged little man.

"I am, Mr. Secretary, and these are my friends and co-workers, George
Boehm and John Makely."

The Secretary acknowledged the introduction gravely, then plunged into
the heart of the matter at hand with the quick energy for which he
was famed.

"It may or may not be a serious situation," he said, "but certainly it has thus far been quite alarming.
In any event, we have taken the matter out of the hands of the Air
Traffic Bureau. We are prepared to defy the ultimatum of the enemy,
whoever he may be.

But we want your help, Mr. Jones. Every ship of the Air Navy will be in the upper levels within the prescribed
twenty-four hours, and we will endeavor to stave off their attacks until
such time as you can fit the Pioneer for a journey to their headquarters."

"How
can your antiquated war vessels, capable of hurling a high explosive
shell no more than fifty miles, fight off an enemy that is thousands
of miles distant?" asked Hart.

"It is believed by the research engineers of the government that, though their headquarters may be
located at a great distance, the raiders drop to a comparatively low altitude at the time of one
of their attacks, returning immediately thereafter to their base."

Hart Jones shook his head. "The engineers may be correct," he stated;
"but how on earth can you expect a little vessel like the Pioneer to
battle an enemy who is possessed of these terribly destructive weapons
and who has sufficient confidence in his own invulnerability to declare
war on the greatest country on earth?"

* * * * *

Secretary Simler dropped his voice to a confidential tone, and his keen
gray eyes flashed excitement as he unfolded the details of the discoveries
and plans of the War Department.

We three listened in undisguised amazement to a tale of the unceasing labors
of our Secret Service agents in foreign countries, of elaborate experiments with deadly weapons
and the chemicals of warfare.

We heard of marvelous new rays that could be projected for many miles and destroy
whole armies at a single blast; rays that would, in less time than
that required to tell of the feat, reduce to a mass of fused metal
the greatest firstline battleships of the old days of ocean warfare.

We heard of preparations for defensive warfare throughout the civilized world, preparedness that insured
so terrible and final a war that it was literally impossible for a great
world conflagration to again break out. We learned that the present mysterious
signs of a coming war could not possibly have originated in any country
on earth, else they would have been known of long in advance, due to the
network of the Secret Service system.

This war, so unexpectedly thrust upon us, was undoubtedly a war of planets!

"But," objected Hart, "the messages were in English, were they not?"

"They
were," continued Secretary Simler, "and that puzzled our experts in the beginning.
But, it may well be that our enemy from out the skies has had spies
among us for many years and could thus have learned our languages
and radio codes.

In any event, we are to meet destructive rays with others equally destructive, and you, Hartley
Jones, are the man who can make our effectiveness certain."

"I?"

"Yes.

How long a time will be required in fitting out the Pioneer for reliable
space flying?"

* * * * *

Hart Jones pondered the matter and I could see that he was overjoyed
at the prospect of getting into the thing in earnest.

"About one week," he replied, "providing you can send a force of fifty
expert mechanics to my hangar at once and supply all material as
fast as I shall require it."

"Excellent," said the Secretary.

"We'll have the men there in a few hours and will obtain whatever you
need, regardless of cost, for immediate delivery. Incidentally, there will
be several scientists as well, who will supervise the installation of
two types of ray generators and their projecting mechanisms on the Pioneer.
You will need them later."

"I don't doubt we shall," said Hart. "And now, with your permission, we
shall leave for the hangar. I'm ready to start work."

"Capital!" Secretary Simler pressed every one of a row of buttons set
in his desk top.

We were dismissed.

"Well," said I, when we reached the outside, "he has given you quite
a job, Hart!"

"You said something," he replied. "But, if this threat from the skies proves
as real and as calamitous as I think it will, we all have our work
cut out for us."

"Do you really believe this enemy comes from another planet?" asked
George as we entered the Pioneer for the trip home.

"Where else can they be from?" countered Hart. "But, really it makes no difference to us now. We have to go after
them in earnest.

Don't want to quit, do you, George?"

"Wha-a-at?" shouted George, as he jerked savagely at the main switch of the Pioneer. "You know me better
than that, Hart. Did I ever let you down in anything?"

"No," admitted the smiling Hart, "you never did, bless your heart.
But Jack here is another matter.

He has a wife and two kids to look after. That lets him out automatically."

*
* * * *

My heart sank at the words, for I knew that he meant what he said.
And, truth to tell, I saw the justice in his remarks.

"But, Hart,"
I faltered, "I'd like to be in on this thing."

"I know you would, old man. But I think it's out of the question,
for the present at least.

You can help with the reconstruction of the Pioneer, however."

And meekly I accepted his dictum, though with secretly conflicting
emotions.

Little did I realize at the time that Hart knew far more than he pretended
and that he had merely attempted to salve his own conscience in this
manner.

I was very anxious to return to my family, and, as I sped homeward in a taxicab
after the Pioneer landed at her own hangar, my mind was filled with doubts
and fears. Secretary Simler had been very brief in his talk, but his every
word carried home the gravity of the situation.

What if these invaders carried the war to the surface? Suppose they
seared the countryside and the cities and suburbs with rays of horrible
nature that would shrivel and blast all that lay in their path?

My heart chilled at the thought and it was a distinct relief when
I gazed on my little home and saw that it was safe--so far. I paid the
driver with a much too large bank note and dashed up my own front
steps two at a time.

     
     
     
     

A few hours later I tore myself away and returned to the hangar, where the
Pioneer now reposed in a scaffolded cradle. The sight which met my eyes
was astonishing in the extreme, for the hangar had been transformed
into a huge workshop with seemingly hundreds of men already at work.

It was a scene of furious activity, and, to my utter amazement, I observed that the Pioneer was already in
an advanced stage of disassembly.

* * * * *

I had no difficulty in locating Hart Jones, for he was striding from lathe to workbench
to boring mill, issuing his orders with the sureness and decision of a born
leader of men. He welcomed me in his most brisk manner and immediately
assigned me to a portion of the work in the chemical laboratory--something
I was at least partly fitted for.

We labored far into the night, when a siren called us to rest and
food.

This was to be a night and day job, and not a man of those on duty gave thought to the intense nervous
and physical strain. Sixty-five of us I learned there were, though
it had seemed there were several times that number.

During the rest period, Hart switched on the large television and sound mechanism of the public news broadcasts.
Great excitement prevailed throughout the United States, for there had
been a leak and the news had gone abroad regarding the message from the enemy.
There was widespread panic and disorder and the government was besieged
with demands for authentic news.

The twenty-four hours of grace had nearly expired.

Finally the public was told of what actually was happening.

Our entire fleet of one thousand air cruisers was in air-level six, waiting for the enemy. America
was going to fight in earnest!

* * * * *

Flashes of our air cruisers in construction and in action came over
the screen; voice-vision records of the popular officers of the fleet
followed in quick succession.

Then came the blow--the first of the strange war.

Two vessels of the air fleet had been destroyed by the triple rays and pillar of fire! Fifty cruisers rushing to the
scene had been unable to find any traces of the source of the deadly rays. And, this time, there was an alarming
added element. The pillar of fire had risen from a point near Gadsden
in Alabama and, in its wake, there spread a sulphurous, smoldering
fire that crept along the ground and destroyed all in its path.

Farms, factories, and even the steel rails of the railroads were consumed
and burned into the ground as if by the breath of some tremendous blast
furnace.

Hundreds of inhabitants of the section perished, and it was reported
that the fumes from the strange fires were drifting in the direction
of Birmingham, terrifyingly visible in blue-green clouds of searing
vapor.

With the first news of the disaster came a wave of fear that spread over
the country with the rapidity of the ether waves that carried the
news.

Then came stern
determination. This enemy must be swept from the skies! Gatherings
in public places volunteered en masse for whatever service the government
might ask of them.

The entire world was in an uproar, and from Great Britain, France, Germany and
Russia, came immediate offers of their air fleets to assist in fighting
off the Terror.

* * * * *

In less than an hour there were nearly five thousand cruisers in
air-level six, patroling its entire depth from thirty-five thousand
to one hundred thousand feet altitude.

We resumed work in the hangar, but the news service was kept in operation
as far as the amplifiers were concerned, though the television screen
was switched off on account of the likelihood of its distracting the
workers.

Again came the report of a major disaster, this time over Butte in
Montana.

Four American vessels and one British were the victims in level six. And the city of Butte was in flames;
blue, horrible flames that literally melted the city into the ground.

Again there was no trace of the invaders.

How puny were the efforts of the five thousand air cruisers!

Marvels of engineering and mechanical skill, these vessels were. Deadly as were the weapons they carried--weapons
so terrible that war on earth was considered impossible since their
development--they were helpless against an enemy who could not be
located.

Though our vessels were capable of boring high into the stratosphere,
the enemy worked from still higher.

"Holy
smoke!" gasped Hart Jones, who had stopped at my side. "What a contract I have
on my hands!"

* * * * *

He looked in the direction of the partly dismantled Pioneer, and I
could see by the fixedness of his stare that he was thinking of her
insignificant size in comparison with the job she was to undertake.

Above the din of the machines in the hangar rang the startled voice
of a news announcer.

Panic-stricken he seemed, and we stopped to listen. Another blow of the terror
of the skies--and now close by!

Over Westchester County in New York State there
was a repetition of the previous attacks. Only two of the cruisers had
vanished this time; but several towns, including Larchmont and Scarsdale, were
pools of molten fire!

Sick at heart,
I thought of my little home in Rutherford and of the dear ones it contained.
I thought of telephoning, but, what was the use?

There was no warding off of this terrible thing that had so suddenly
come to our portion of the world.

It was the blowing of the last trumpet, the way things looked.

The announcer had calmed himself. His voice droned tonelessly now, as
was the custom. Another raid, on the Mexican Border now. We were
stupefied by the rapidity of the enemy's attacks; then electrified
once more by the most astounding news of all.

Alexandria, in Egypt, was the base of a pillar of fire! Fully half of the city was wiped out, and the remainder
in a mortal funk, terrorized and riotous. The United States was not alone in the war!

The foreign fleets which reinforced our own were ordered home immediately.

But to what avail? The world was doomed!

* * * * *

In the morning, after nine fearful attacks during the night, there came another message from the
enemy and this was repeated in five languages and addressed to the entire world:

"People of Earth," it read, "this is our final warning.

One chance has been
given and you have proved stubborn. Consider well that your civilization be not
entirely destroyed, and answer as the expiration of forty-eight
hours, using our transmitting frequency. Our hand is to be withheld for that
period only, when, unless our demands are met, all of your large cities and towns
will be destroyed. Our terms for peace are that we be permitted to land
without resistance on your part; that you surrender farm and forest
lands, cities and towns, able-bodied men of twenty to forty, selected
women of seventeen to thirty, and tribute in the form of such supplies
and precious metals as we may specify, all to the extent of forty
per cent of your resources.

No compromise will be accepted."

That was all. It was during a rest period at the Jones hangar and I had
brought Hart and George to my home for breakfast.

We sat at the table when the news instrument brought the message.
Marie was pouring the coffee, and my two small boys, Jim and Jack,
had gone to the playroom, from whence their joyous voices could be
heard.

We four were struck dumb at the announcement, and Marie looked at
me with so awful an expression of dread that my coffee turned bitter
in my mouth.

Marie was just twenty-eight!

"What beasts!" cried Hart.

"Allow them to land without resistance? I should say not! Rather we should fight
them off until all of us perish."

* * * * *

He had risen from his chair in his anger. Now he sat down suddenly and shook
a forefinger in my face.

"Say!" he exploded. "You can't tell me that some master mind of our own
world is not back of this!"

"I'm not telling you," I replied, startled at the fierce fire that flashed
from his eyes.

"I know. I'm just trying to think aloud and I'm liable to say anything. But
this sort of business is the work of humans as sure as you're born.
Still I believe that what Simler says is true. I can't believe that any
country on earth is back of the thing.

It must be an attack from beings of another planet, but I think they
have as a leader a man who is of our own earth."

Marie's eyes opened wide at this.

"But how could that be?" she asked. "Surely no one from our earth
has made the trip to one of the other planets?"

"It may be that someone has," replied Hart. "Do you remember Professor
Oradel? Remember, about ten years ago, I think it was, when he and
a half dozen or more of extremely radical scientists built a rocket
they claimed would reach the moon? They were ridiculed and hissed
and relegated to the position of half-baked, crazy inventors.

But Oradel had a large private fortune, and he and his crowd built themselves
a workshop and laboratory in a secluded region in the Ozarks.

Here they labored and experimented and eventually the rocket ship
was constructed.

No person was in their confidence, but when the machine was completed
they issued a statement to the press to the effect that they were
ready for the voyage to the moon, and that, when they returned, a
reckoning with the world was to be made for its disbelief and total
lack of sympathy.

Again the press subjected Oradel to a series of scathing denunciations,
and the scientific publications refused to take cognizance of his claims
in any way, shape or form."

* * * * *

"Then, one night, a great rocket roared into the heavens, leaving
a terror-stricken countryside in the wake of its brilliantly visible
tail.

Several observatories whose telescopes picked up and followed the trail
of the contraption reported that it described a huge parabola, mounting
high into the stratosphere and falling back to earth, where it was
lost in the depths of the Pacific Ocean.

There the thing ended and it was soon forgotten. But I believe that
this rocket ship of Oradel's reached Mars or Venus and that the peoples
of whichever planet they reached have been prevailed upon and prepared
to war upon the world."

"That would explain their knowledge of our languages and codes." I ventured,
"and would likewise account for the fact that the first of our ships
to be attacked were those carrying large shipments of currency. Though
if these were destroyed by the fire columns, I can not see what good
the money would do them."

"Don't believe the first three were destroyed," grunted Hart.

"You'll remember that in these cases the pillars of fire, or whatever
you want to call them, were of a cold light, whereas now they are
viciously hot and leave behind them the terrible destructive fires
that spread and spread and seemingly never are extinguished.

No, I think that the force used is something of the nature of an atom-disrupting triad of beams and that these
set up the column as a veritable tornado, a whirling column of roaring wind
rushing skyward with tremendous velocity. The first ships, I believe,
were carried into the stratosphere and captured intact by the enemy.

"Since the declaration of war the nature of the column has altered. The three
beams, instead of meeting at or near the surface of the earth, now
join high in the heavens and the column strikes downward instead of
expending its force upward.

An added energy is used which produces the terribly destructive force
below. And now we are able to locate fragments of the ships destroyed
above, whereas previously there were no traces."

* * * * *

"Sounds reasonable," commented George. "But why have they not landed and
waged their war right here without warning, if that is what they
now intend to do?"

"A natural question, George.

But I have
a hunch that the space flier or fliers of the enemy are conserving
fuel by remaining beyond gravity.

You know, in space flying, the greatest expenditures of energy are in
leaving or landing on a body and, once landed, they might not have sufficient
fuel for a getaway. They know we are not exactly helpless, once they
are in our midst, and are taking this means of reducing us to the
point of complete subjection before risking their precious selves
among us."

The telephone startled us by its insistent ring. It was a call from the
hangar for Hart. The news broadcast announcer was in the midst of a
long dissertation regarding the discovery only this morning that
there were certain apparent discrepancies in the movements of the tides
and unwonted perturbations of the moon's orbit.

There flashed on the screen a view of the great observatory at Mount Wilson, and Professor Laughlin of
that institution stepped into the foreground of the scene to take
up the discussion so mechanically repeated by the announcer.

"Must leave for the hangar at once," declared Hart, returning from the telephone.
"Simler and his staff are there and we are wanted immediately."

"Oh,
Jack!" Marie begged with her eyes.

"Got to be done, Honey," I responded,
"and, believe me, I am going to do what little I can to help. Suppose
we surrendered!"

* * * * *

I shuddered anew at the very thought
and took hurried leave of my family, Hart and George awaiting me in
the hall. Had I known what was to transpire before the end of the
war, I am certain I would have been in much less of a hurry.

We rushed
to the hangar, where Secretary Simler and his party awaited us in
the office. Rather, I should say, they waited for Hart Jones.

"Mr.
Jones," said the Secretary of War, when the introductions were over,
"it is up to you to get the Pioneer in shape to go out after these
terrible creatures before the forty-eight hours have expired. We have
replied to their ultimatum and have told them we will have our answer
ready within the appointed time, but it is already agreed between
the nations of the World Alliance that our reply is to be negative.
Better far that we submit to the utter destruction of our civilization
than agree to their terms."

"I believe I can do it, Mr. Secretary,"
was Hart Jones' simple comment. "At least I will try. But you must
let me have an experienced astronomer at once with whom to consult."

"Astronomer?"

"Yes--immediately.
I have a theory, but am not enough of a student of astronomy myself
to work it out."

"You shall have the best man in the Air Naval Observatory
at once." Secretary Simler chewed his cigar savagely. "And anything
else you might need," he concluded.

"There is nothing else, sir."
Hart turned from the great men who regarded him solemnly, some with
expressions of hope, others with plain distrust written large on their
countenances.

* * * * *

They left in silence and we returned to
our work with renewed vigor. Within an hour there arrived by fast
plane an undersized, thick-spectacled man can who presented himself
as Professor Linquist from the government observatory. He was immediately
taken into the office by Hart and the two remained behind closed doors
for the best part of four hours.

Meanwhile the hangar hummed with
activity as usual. We in the chemical laboratory were engaged in compounding
the high explosive used as fuel in the Pioneer. This was being compressed
to its absolute limit and was stored in long steel cylinders in the
form of a liquid of extremely low temperature. These cylinders were
at once transferred to a special steel vault where the temperature
was kept at a low enough point to prevent expansion and consequent
loss of the explosive, not to speak of the danger of destroying the
entire lot of us in its escape.

The generating apparatus of the Pioneer
was to be dispensed with for this trip, since it was of no value outside
the atmosphere where there was no air from which to extract the elements
necessary for the production of the explosive. Instead, the entire
supply of fuel for the trip was to be carried aboard the vessel in
the cylinders we were engaged in filling. Hart had calculated that
there was just sufficient room to store fuel for a trip of about two
hundred thousand miles from the earth and a safe return. We hoped
this would be enough.

* * * * *

On the scaffolding around the Pioneer
there were now so many workers that it seemed they must forever be
in one another's way. But the work was progressing with extreme rapidity.
Already there projected from her blunt nose a slender rod of shining
metal which was the projector of one of the destructive rays whose
generator and auxiliaries were being installed under the supervision
of the government experts. The force had been trebled and was now
working in shifts of two hours each, the pace being so exhausting
that highest efficiency was obtained by using these short periods.

Additional
rocket rubes were being installed, and the steel framework of a bulge
now showed on the hull, this bulge being an additional fuel storage
compartment that would provide a slight additional resistance and
consequently lower speed in the lower levels, but would prove little
hindrance in level six and none at all in outer space.

When Hart
emerged from his office he appeared to be very tired, indeed, but
his face bore an expression of triumph that could not be mistaken.
He and this little scientist from Washington had evidently arrived
at some momentous conclusion regarding the enemy.

"Jack," he said,
when he reached my bench during his first round of the hanger, "celestial
mechanics is a wonderful thing. After many successful battles, in which the entire nobility of the
Eduan clan perished, the Sequanians acquired so much power that they rallied to themselves
the greatest number of the allies of their rivals, obliged the Eduans to give as hostages the
children of their nobles who had perished, to swear that they would not attempt any thing against
their conquerors, and even took possession of a part of their territory, and thus obtained
the supreme command of all Gaul."

We see by this passage that there was a supremacy resting in the hands of some one, over the
whole nation. The successful tribe had a chief to whom that supremacy belonged. Caesar, it
is true, does not speak of a monarch as of a person, but attributes the power to the "civitas,"
the tribe. It is well known, however, that each tribe had a head, and that in Celtic countries
the power was never vested in a body of men, assembly, committee, or board, as we say in modern
times, but in the chieftain, whatever may have been his degree.

The author of the "Commentaries" was a Roman in whose eyes the state was every thing, the actual
office-holder, dictator, consul, or praetor, a mere instrument for a short time; and he was
too apt, like most of his countrymen, to judge of other nations by his own.

We may conclude from the passage quoted that there was a supreme monarch in Gaul as well as
in Ireland, and modern historians of Gaul have acknowledged it.

But there is yet a stranger fact, which absolutely cannot be explained, save on the supposition
that the Celts everywhere held the supreme dignity of extreme if not absolute importance in
their political system.

To give it the preeminence it deserves, we must refer to a subsequent event in the history
of the Celts in Britain, since it happened there several centuries after Caesar, and we will
quote the words of Augustin Thierry, who relates it:

"After the retreat of the legions, recalled to Italy to protect the centre of the empire and
Rome itself against the invasion of the Goths, the Britons ceased to acknowledge the power
of the foreign governors set over their provinces and cities. The forms, the offices, the very
spirit and language of the Roman administration  disappeared; in their place was reconstituted
the traditional authority of the clannish chieftains formerly abolished by Roman power. Ancient
genealogies carefully preserved by the poets, called in the British language bairdd - bards
- helped to discover those who could pretend to the dignity of chieftains of tribes or families,
tribe and family being synonymous in their language; and the ties of relationship formed the
basis of their social state. Men of the lowest class, among that people, preserved in memory
the long line of their ancestry with a care scarcely known to other nations, among the highest
lords and princes. All the British Celts, poor or rich, had to establish their genealogy in
order fully to enjoy their civil rights and secure their claim of property in the territory
of the tribe. The whole belonging to a primitive family, no one could lay any claim to the
soil, unless his relationship was well established.

"At the top of this social order, composing a federation of small hereditary sovereignties,
the Britons, freed from Roman power, constituted a high national sovereignty; they created
a chieftain of chieftains, in their tongue called Penteyrn, that is to say, a king of the whole,
in the language of their old annals. And they made him elective.--It was also formerly the
custom in Gaul. --The object was to introduce into their system a kind of centralization, which,
however, was always loose among Celtic tribes."--(Conquete de l'Angleterre, liv. i.)

It is evident to us that if the Britons constituted a supreme power, when freed from the Roman
yoke, it was only because they had possessed it before they became subject to that yoke. It
is, therefore, safe to conclude that there was a supreme monarch in Britain and in Gaul as
well as in Ireland; and since the Britons, after having lost for several centuries their autonomy
of government, thought of reestablishing this supreme authority as soon as they were free to
do so, it is clear that they attached a real importance to it, and that it entered as an essential
element into the social fabric.

But what in reality was the authority of the Ard-Righ in Ireland, of the Penteyrn in Britain,
of the supreme chief in Gaul, whose name, as usual, is not mentioned by Caesar?

First, it is to be remarked that a certain extent of territory was always under his immediate
authority. Then, as far as we can gather from history, there was a reciprocity of obligations
between the  high power and the subordinate kings or chieftains, the former granting subsidies
to the latter, who in turn paid tribute to support the munificence or military power of the former.

We know from the Irish annals that the dignity of Ard-Righ was always sustained by alliances
with some of the provincial kings, to secure the submission of others, and we have a hint of
the same nature in the passage, already quoted, from Caesar, as also taking place in Gaul. 

This melancholly event took place about a quarter before three o'clock in the afternoon--a few minutes previously
to the time ordinarily set apart for the ringing of the bell for the
exercises of Public Worship.

It was just at the close of a refreshing shower of rain, attended as is usual at this season of
the year, with peals of thunder and flashes of vivid lightening.

The Electric fluid seems to have been attracted by the spire of the Steeple, which--running up
from the centre of a four-sided roof rising in the form of a pyramid--was
rapidly conducted by means of a large quantity of iron used for the
security of the timbers, to the shingles and other combustible materials
of three of the corners of the building, almost directly under the
eave.

There entirely inaccesible for some minutes to any efforts which could be made use of for the purpose
of quenching it, and continually fed by the qualities of the matter with which its work of desolation,
with a rapidity which was truly awful and appalling. In a space of time too brief almost to be deemed credible
by such as were not witnesses of the sublime and fearful spectacle, the entire roof exhibited to
the immense multitude gathered around to mingle their sympathies and tender their assistance,
nothing but one mighty map of living fire--curling in rapid and terrific
volumes around the still suspended tho tottering steeple; and smiling
at every effort towards extinction, save that of Him--that Dread and
Aweful Being, by whom the flame had been enkindled.

A period of two hours had not elapsed from the commencement of the conflagration, before the whole
edifice except the walls, was involved in one shapeless mass of smoking ruin, presenting a scene,
as desolating and repulsive to the common citizen, as it was tearful and heart-rending to
the church and congregation. Our holy and beautiful house where our fathers praised the Lord--to
use the language of the Prophet,--was thus burned up with fire;
and all our pleasant things laid waste.

With the exception of the lamps, a venerable clock in front of the Gallery
opposite, the pulpit, the books and cushions, a part of the windows,
the Stoves, a large proportion of the pipes of a Splendid Organ which
was split open with an axe for that purpose, and some of the plank broken
from the pews--all was destroyed; and but for the real and practical
sympathy of many of our esteemed citizens in braving dangers of no
common magnitude, a like destruction had been the fate of these also.

The house had been standing for more than 63 years--the steeple and
galleries had been built somewhat later--and except the Episcopal
church on Washington Street, generally known by the name of "Christ's
Church"--was the oldest of all the ten places of religious worship
in town.

For many years its bell was the only Church-going signal within the limits of the corporation; and
owing to this circumstance, connected with its peculiarly clear and inviting tones, the destruction
of it--which was caused by its fall from so lofty an eminence--seemed the occasion of regrets to
the public at large, more immediately expressed than for the edifice itself. To the congregation, no
loss besides the house, was more deeply deplored than that of the large and richly toned Organ.
Not only because of its superior worth as an Instrument of Music, the difficulty of replacing it by
another, and the sacred uses to which it was applied, but equally because
it had been presented by a few venerated and much esteemed individuals,
most of whom are now sleeping in the dust.

For several years, there had been an Insurance effected on the building to the amount of five thousand
dollars--two thousand five hundred on each of the Offices in town.
But it so happened in providence, that one of these Policies, which had
expired about four or five months previous, had never been renewed;--so
that with the exception of twenty-five hundred dollars, the loss
to the congregation was total.

Yet there was one circumstance which ought to be recorded with emotions of adoring gratitude. The calamity took place
at a time when on ordinary occasions, some individuals would have been in the house--as it
was so near the hour of the afternoon's service,--and had that been the case now, there is
much reason to fear, that it would have been attended, if not with loss of life, at any rate with serious injury to
not a few. But it had been so ordered by Infinite Wisdom no doubt, that,
for the first Sabbath in more than two years, the Church was closed during the whole
of that day--the Pastor having been providentially called away to supply
the pulpit of a sick brother in the neighboring city of Georgetown.
So that no individual was in the house, and no serious injury occurred
to any individual during the progress of the fire--and thus, while
there is much to produce sadness and to call for deep humiliation before
God, the Session would feel, that there is still something to awaken
emotions of gratitude and praise; and that however severely the loss may
be felt, yet it has not been unattended with significant expressions
of kindness and regard.

Dr. Harrison's lamentations, while justified, were not for complete demolition. In the minutes of the
trustees, the fact is stated that the roof and cupola burned and fell in, destroying much of the
interior woodwork, but not all.

The walls and part of the galleries remained intact, Dr. Muir's tablet
was uninjured, many windows were not broken, and the organ, at first
thought destroyed, was very little injured; it remains in use to this
day, and likewise the old clock.

However, the damage was terrific and there was only a nominal insurance
to cover the loss.

Part of the congregation wished a new building site and it was given some
thought, but the "siller" [silver] was found to be inadequate for the purpose.
The amount in the treasury did cover the cost of restoration, and
on April 5, 1836, it was "Resolved, That the congregation of the Church
be called to meet at the Lecture room on Friday evening next at 1/2
past 7 o'clock, to decide permanently on the location of the Church."[131]
In November the committee minutes recorded that "The location of the
Church was permanently fixed on the old site,"[132] and on February
7, 1837, "Mr. Smith, from the committee appointed to consult on the
propriety of lowering the gallery, reported that it was thought to
be inexpedient to do so."[133] The final notation on the new church
read: "It was, on Motion Resolved that our New house of worship, be
solemnly Dedicated to the Worship of Almighty God on the last Sabbath
of July next--it being on that day two years before, that our former
house of worship was consumed by fire...."[134]

It is distressing
to think of the eighteenth century interior destroyed on that hot
afternoon of July 1835, but we must be grateful for what the rebuilders
of 1837 preserved as an outstanding example of Georgian architecture.

In 1843 the tower was added: it was in the approximate location that
the pulpit had stood for many years. In 1853 the front vestibule was
constructed.

Dr. Harrison was a delicate man and for a long time his health was
far from good.

In 1848 he was so wretched that it was recommended he go south for
his health. The firm of Lambert & McKenzie offered Dr. Harrison a free
passage to and from the Barbados on the barque Archibald Gracie. The
minutes of the committee record the motion of appreciation to the
owners.

Mr. Robert Bell of the old printing firm of that name made a gift of letter paper to Dr. Harrison every
Christmas for many years. In his latter years the Doctor in thanking Mr. Bell always said that he never expected
to see another Christmas. He saw at least three after the first of these communications, for that
many letters exist containing the same mournful allusion.

In 1862 the Civil War disrupted the Church. Dr. Elias Harrison died in 1863 after
forty-three years of ministering to his congregation and with his death
the Church ceased to function and its congregation scattered. During
the Battle of Bull Run, it was used as a hospital for wounded soldiers,
and from time to time it was used by other faiths, including a Negro
Baptist congregation.

Neglected, uncared for, the prey of thieves and
vandals, the doors were finally closed.

The cemetery lies between the Church and the manse.

Here John Carlyle sleeps. Cofounder and trustee of Alexandria in 1748; son-in-law to Colonel William Fairfax; brother-in-law
to Lawrence Washington; commissary of the Virginia forces under Braddock
in 1755; collector of customs on the South Potomac, and major in
the Revolution; a Scottish gentleman, heir to a title, he cast his
fate with the colonies.

Nearby lies the tomb of William Hunter, founder of St. Andrew's Society, and that
beloved friend and physician of General Washington, Dr. James Craik.
Ramsay, McKenzie, Muir, Vowell, Harper, Hepburn and Balfour are among
the names found inscribed upon the old stones. Their dust makes of this
soil a part of Old Scotland.

Chapter 12

Presenting The Sun Fire Company

In the eighteenth century calamities visited Alexandria, and of these nothing was more feared than
fire. To prevent and control such catastrophes the gentlemen of the town formed themselves into several
companies of fire fighters. How and with what means the raging holocausts were controlled is revealed in
an old, mutilated, leather-bound minute book of the Sun Fire Company.[135]
The first entry in this treasure is part of the damaged record for
the March meeting in 1775.

The next page is numbered 9 and contains the minutes for the April meeting. This
is evidence that the Company was formed in 1774 between August and
December.

At this March 1775 meeting it was agreed to limit the number of the Company to forty-five persons. The clerk for
this meeting was John Dalton; members served as clerks in rotation. Absent members were fined one
shilling three pence.

Members were to be provided with two buckets, a brown linen or oznaburg bag
containing at least four yards of material, and a wicker basket as soon as possible
after admittance. These were to be hung up in good order and always in place.
There was a forfeiture of money for any neglect. The Company took
some several months to acquire proper ladders and hooks. In April the "propriety
of purchasing an Engine" was discussed and at the June meeting it
was agreed to postpone the matter.

Three ladders were then finished but most of the buckets were at the painters being marked with owners'
names and numbers. By August the ladders had been completed by Thomas Flemming, and John Dalton was
ordered to procure locks with proper staples for securing the ladders under the "piazza of the Court House."

As
the Revolutionary War got under way many of the members were excused,
"being frequently abroad on the Servis of Their Country."

Among these were Captain Valentine Peirs, Captain John Allison, Colonel
John Fitzgerald and J. Windsor Brown.

Unfortunately the clerks took for granted that everybody knew when
there had been a fire and rarely are these important events mentioned
in the minutes.

In January 1777, "William Wilson lost a bucket at the late fire" and
he was authorized to purchase another at the Company's expense; Robert Adam, who
was clerk, forgot to "warn the Company and was fined Ten Shillings";
several members neglected to put up lights when the late fire happened
at Zael Cooper's and the fine was two shillings.

The next clerk was "desired to Enquire of the several members if they had candles
at their windows and to collect Fines from such of them as had not."

The light begins to break--at the first hint of fire the Company member
must, at the fastest possible speed, put lighted candles in the front
windows of his dwelling.

This was Alexandria's first alarm system! The member then dashed for four yards of material in an oznaburg
bag, two leather fire buckets (they each weighed as much as a saddle)
and a wicker basket and, without stopping, he raced to the fire, where
he either pumped water, formed spectators in ranks for passing buckets,
removed goods from burning houses in his bag or basket, climbed ladders
or pulled down adjoining houses when necessary; and last but not least
watched to "prevent evil minded persons from plundering sufferers."

The only tranquil occupation was that of the "sentinels" who kept watch over goods removed from the
conflagration wherever such goods were deposited.

What a spectacular sight a fire in Alexandria presented when one remembers the elegant dress of the day;
short clothes, elaborate jackets or vests, ruffled linen, full skirted coats, perukes, queues braided
and beribboned, powdered heads in three-cornered hats, silken and white hose, buckled shoes; and that
fires generally occurred in winter upon the coldest days and in the worst weather, often at night, and that
these firemen were the élite of the town, the serious, responsible merchants, doctors, masters, ship captains and
owners.

There was some reward now and then for their efforts. At the April
meeting in 1777, the "Succeeding Clerk is desired to warn the Company to
meet next month at the Ball Room and to Desire the Treasurer to purchase
Ten Gallons of Spirits, and one Loaf of Sugar Candles etc. The Clerk
to have the Ball Room cleaned and put in order." Alas, the members were
either not warned or invited for only six showed up. The next month
was worse, again no warning and only four came. The clerk was ordered to
warn again and provide what spirit, sugar and candles may be necessary
for the next meeting and "that the same be held in the Town House."

The clerk was reimbursed "one pound Two Shillings for white washing and cleaning
the Ball Room."

On February 22, 1779, a resolution was passed to fine the clerk refusing
or neglecting his duty forty-two shillings, and absent members three
shillings.

There
was a fine called the "Moreover Fine," which was increased from five shillings to nine shillings,
and the Company voted to dispose of any sum not exceeding £5 "when
less than 2/3 of the members are met."

Besides funds in cash, the Company had 1,000 pounds of tobacco on hand. The following July the Company
ordered the tobacco sold.

On Monday, October 27, 1783, nine years after the founding of the Company,
the succeeding clerk is ordered to give notice that at the next meeting
a proposal will be made to dispose of the money in stock in the purchase
of an engine. Two months later, undaunted by the recent unpleasantness,
the treasurer was requested to "Import from London on account of
this Company a fire engine value from seventy to eighty pounds sterling."

It took two years for the engine to arrive. Preparatory to its reception, officers were appointed for its
direction.

Nine stalwart members were chosen, and they were ordered to serve nine months. Six shillings each was collected
from the members to help make up the deficiency, and a committee was appointed to wait upon the
county court with a petition requesting ground sufficient for building an enginehouse upon
the courthouse lot. This was granted and the enginehouse was built on Fairfax
Street "adjoining the school House." The members were called on for
a dollar each for this purpose and it was later necessary to borrow another
dollar. Two keys were ordered labeled "Sun Fire Company."

The April minutes in 1786 contain the invoice for the engine:

To a Fire Engine Imported from London with 2 dozen buckets Amt p.
invoice £ 72.14 Commission on shipping D^o--5% 3.12.

8 Insurance on £76 @ 2-1/2pc 1.18 Freight from London 6. 6 ----------
£ 84.10. 8 Exchange 40 pc^1 33.16. 2 ---------- 118. 6.10 Freight from
Baltimore 1. 4 ---------- £119.10.10.

It was incorporated into the articles that the engine was to be worked for two
hours every Monday of the meeting, and anyone neglecting to attend and work
the engine was penalized nine pence. Moreover William Herbert, Dennis Ramsay
and Isaac Roberdeau were charged with getting the engine to fires.

About this time (1788) the Virginia Assembly passed an act authorizing the
different towns in the state to elect fire companies.

In May 1789, Dr. William Brown was elected treasurer to succeed William
Hartshorne.

 

The first mention by the Sun of other fire companies in Alexandria is
in the minutes of February 28, 1791. In July specific reference is made
to the Friendship Fire Company and the Relief Fire Company.

In May 1793, the Sun Company was dissatisfied with the English engine, and
they began correspondence with a Mr. Mason of Philadelphia with the intention
of selling the old engine and acquiring a new one. Mason manufactured three
engines.

They contained 190, 170 and 160 gallons of water, respectively, which they discharged in one minute and a half
and they were worked by twenty-four, twenty-two and eighteen or twenty men,
respectively, and varied in price accordingly. The Sun Fire Company purchased the smallest
engine for £125. It seems to have arrived in April 1794. Later the old
engine "with the suction pipe" was thoroughly repaired by Mason and
returned to the Sun Fire Company.

By 1796 such confusion reigned at fires that the three companies
associated themselves together to make and sustain certain plans and
rules for the management of fires. It was decided to have three directors
or commanders, one chosen from each company, only one of whom was
to act at a time, who were to have control of the engines, fire hooks,
ladders and to be the judges of the expediency of pulling down adjacent
buildings.

In order that these gentlemen be more conspicuous (distinguished was the word) it was decided to "elevate
their voices above the ordinary clamour on such occasions," each of them in action was ordered to carry in
his hand a "speaking trumpet, painted white, and not less than three
feet long."

Each company was to keep such an affair in the enginehouse.

There were then chosen three subordinate directors who had immediate charge of the engine under the
commander, then four persons from each Company, to be called regulators,
who were to "be diligent in searching for the most convenient source
of water, in forming lanes for the supply of the engines, and preventing
the use of dirty puddle water."

Upon these gentlemen fell the unpleasant task of "noticing remisness in the members and others and being obliged
to give information to their respective companies whenever such shameful instances
occured to their observation." Trustees were responsible for the
removal of property, and the entire company was obliged to wear "at
times of fire" by way of distinction, black caps with white fronts
with letters thereon designating their company.

Moreover these companies pledged themselves to "respect" the other
companies when their property was in danger from fire, "in preference
to persons who are members of neither."

Doctor Dick stated that he lost his fire bucket at the fire at William
Herbert's house, then occupied by Edmund Edmunds, and the treasurer
reimbursed the good Doctor eighteen shillings on October 24, 1796. There is no complication and systematic combination of political, moral, and
social views, but a few axioms of life adhered to with a most admirable energy; and we therefore
find a singleness of purpose, a unity of national and religious feeling, among all the individuals
of the tribe.

As nothing is complicated and systematized among them, the political system must be extremely
simple, and based entirely on the family. And family ideas being as absolute as they are simple,
the political system also becomes absolute and lasting; without improving, it is true, but
also without the constant changes which bring misery with revolution to thoughtful, reflective,
and systematic nations. What a frightful amount of misfortunes has not logic, as it is called,
brought upon the French! It was in the name of logical and metaphysical principles that the
fabric of society was destroyed a hundred years ago, to make room for what was then called
a more rationally-constituted edifice; but the new building is not yet finished, and God only
knows when it will be!

The few axioms lying at the base of the Celtic mind with respect to government are much preferable,
because much more conducive to stability, and consequently to peace and order, whatever may
have been the local agitation and temporary feuds and divisions. Hence we see the permanence
of the supreme authority resting in one family among the Celts through so many ages, in spite
of continual wrangling for that supreme power. Hence the permanence of territorial limits in
spite of lasting feuds, although territory was not invested in any particular inheriting family,
but in a purely moral being called the clan or sept.

As for the moral and social feelings in those tribes, they are not drawn coldly from the mind,
and sternly imposed by the external law, in the form of axioms and enactments, as was the case
chiefly in Sparta, and as is still the case in the Chinese Empire to-day; but they gush forth
impetuously from impulsive and loving hearts, and spread like living waters which no artificially-cut
stones can bank and confine, but which must expand freely in the land they fertilize.

Deep affection, then, is with them at the root of all moral and social feelings; and as all
those feelings, even the national and patriotic, are merged in real domestic sentiment, a great
purity of morals must exist among them, nothing being so conducive  thereto as family affections.

Above all, when those purely-natural dispositions are raised to the level of the supernatural
ones by a divinely-inspired code, by the sublime elevation of Christian purity, then can there
be found nothing on earth more lovely and admirable. Chastity is always attractive to a pure
heart; patriarchal guilelessness becomes sacred even to the corrupt, if not altogether hardened,
man.

Of course we do not pretend that this happy state of things is without its exceptions; that
the light has no shadow, the beauty no occasional blemish. We speak of the generality, or at
least of the majority, of cases; for perfection cannot belong to this world.

Yet mysticism is entirely absent from such a moral and religious state, on account, perhaps,
of the paucity of ideas by which the heart is ruled, and perhaps also on account of the artless
simplicity which characterizes every thing in primitively-constituted nations. And, wonderful
to say, without any mysticism there is often among them a perfect holiness of life, adapting
itself to all circumstances, climates, and associations. The same heart of a young maiden is
capable of embracing a married life or of devoting itself to religious celibacy; and in either
case the duties of each are performed with the most perfect simplicity and the highest sanctity.
Hence, how often does a trifling circumstance

determine for her her whole subsequent life, and make her either the mother of a family or
the devoted spouse of Christ! Yet, the final determination once taken, the whole after-life
seems to have been predetermined from infancy as though no other course could have been possible.

There is no doubt that sensual corruption is particularly engendered by an artificial state
of society, which necessarily fosters morbidity of imagination and nervous excitability. A
primitive and patriarchal life, on the contrary, leads to moderation in all things, and repose
of the senses.

Herein is found the explanation of the eagerness with which the Celts everywhere, but particularly
in Ireland, as soon as Christianity was preached to them, rushed to a life of perfection  and
continence. St. Patrick himself expressed his surprise, and showed, by several words in his
"Confessio," that he was scarcely prepared for it. "The sons of Irishmen," he says, "and the
daughters of their chieftains, want to become monks and virgins of Christ." We know what a
multitude of monasteries and nunneries sprang up all over the island in the very days of the
first apostle and of his immediate successors. Then she did a very foolish thing. After she was sent to school, she
turned back and hid herself in the tool-house at the bottom of the garden.
She had heard her mother say at breakfast that she was going out
for the forenoon, and Carrie thought that she would just wait till
there was no one at home, and then come out from her hiding-place
and play.

Mrs. Sefton had a long walk to take, and as soon as possible she put
on her bonnet, and then, thinking that her little girl was safe at
school, she locked up the house, and started on her errand, leaving
Jess to run about the garden and take care of things.

Carrie heard her mother close the front door, and then she came out from
the tool-house. She had thought that it would be very nice to stay
at home and play, but she soon began to feel lonely and frightened,
and to wish that she had not deceived her mother.

'Oh, Jess!' she said to the little dog, 'I wish I had been good and
gone to school!'

Jess looked up at Carrie, and wagged her tail, but she could do nothing more
to comfort her little mistress.

Carrie walked up and down, feeling ready to cry.

'I never shall be able to stay here all by myself till Mother comes
back,' she thought. 'I will try and get over the wall.'

Now, the garden wall was high, and just as Carrie, by a great effort,
had managed to reach the top, her foot slipped, and she fell heavily
down on to the mould.

She was so much hurt that she fainted away, and then it was the dog's turn to be
distressed.

Jess walked round and round the little fallen girl, and, finding that she could
do nothing to help, she set up a piteous bark, and barked so long and so
loudly that she drew the attention of the neighbours.

'Whatever is that dog of the Seftons' barking at?' one woman inquired of
her husband; and Mr. Curtis, who was a shoemaker, and worked at
home, stopped a moment to listen.

'I don't like the sound,' he said, presently. 'It's as though there was something the matter, and Mrs. Sefton
is out, for I saw her go past the window.'

'Perhaps it
would be best for you to go and see,' his wife said, and though he could ill spare the time, kind-hearted
Mr. Curtis put down the boot which he was mending, and ran down the
lane till he reached the garden wall.

Then he soon saw what was the matter. There was Jess with her paws on
Carrie's frock, while Carrie was lying quite white and still.

The shoemaker carried the poor child to his own cottage, while his wife
went to look for Mrs. Sefton.

Carrie proved to be badly hurt; she had to lie in bed a good while,
and you may be sure that her mother and Lottie, and all her friends,
were very grieved and anxious about her.

But every one praised good, faithful Jess, who had brought help to
her little mistress; and when Lottie came back, and Carrie got quite
well, as I am glad to say she did at last, Jess was a greater pet
than ever.

A GENTLE DONKEY.

(Continued from page 391.)

III.

'You know, Mollie,' said Mrs. Raeburn to her sister-in-law next morning as she looked through the
letters, which had just come in, 'I cannot believe that Tim is so
wicked as you and Mary both say. I ran out to the stables before breakfast,
and the dear, sweet thing rubbed his nose against my sleeve, and
then tried to find my pocket. He evidently expected sugar, for he looked
up at me as much as to say, "Now then, where's that sugar?" You see, dear,'
(here she lowered her voice to a whisper and looked cautiously round)
'although Mary is a splendid maid for the nursery, she may be no good
as a "whip," and so I have made up my mind to go in the cart myself
this morning. Luckily, Cook has made some soup for poor old Mrs. Woods,
and I shall get Mary to drive me there when she takes Harry out.'

'What
does Simmons think of this new treasure?' asked Aunt Mollie.

'Oh! Simmons is ridiculous.

He agrees with Mary, and says that yesterday it took three men to
hold him while he was being harnessed. I never heard anything so absurd!
I thought that we might go round to the stables about eleven and
see for ourselves.

Why!'--looking at her watch--'it is almost eleven now. Come along, Mollie,
or we shall miss the fun,' and picking up the tail of her long skirt,
young Mrs. Raeburn disappeared through the French window.

As the two girls neared the yard, loud voices were heard and the clattering
noise of the donkey's feet upon the cobble stones made it evident
that the harnessing had began.

'Well! how is Tim behaving himself to-day?' called out Mrs. Raeburn.

Instantly three flushed, angry faces looked up, and three fingers
touched three perspiring foreheads respectfully.

'Well, ma'am!' answered Simmons, sulkily, 'I never came across such a little
brute. Just look at that,' he continued, as Tim made a sudden plunge for
the duck-pond, and in spite of the frantic efforts of the two strong boys
who were holding his head on either side, he nearly succeeded in
joining the ducks which were swimming here and there on its smooth
surface.

'Now then, now then,' murmured Mrs. Raeburn, in a soft, cooing voice,
as she walked in front of the donkey, and began to rub his nose; but he
tossed his head angrily to one side, and showed her a set of large,
strong teeth in such a suggestive manner that she discreetly stepped
back.

'Take care of his heels, M'm,' said one of the boys, in an anxious voice, as she laid her hand on
Tim's back, and she had just time to move away when back went his ears,
and up went his hind feet.

Clatter, clatter, clatter went those evil little heels against the
cart, till Mrs. Raeburn thought that by the time he had finished,
the pretty little cart would be fit for little else than match-wood.

Suddenly he stopped, turned gently round with a surprised look in his soft
eyes, as much as to say, 'I wonder what you are all here for?' and
from that moment he gave no more trouble.

Apparently this tantrum was at an end, and as he stood placidly whisking
his long tail over his pretty back, Mrs. Raeburn mentally began to
make apologies for him.

Doubtless the men had teased him, and naturally the poor dear little
thing had tried to take his revenge.

'No,' she said, in answer to a murmured question from Simmons, 'you need
not take him round. We can just start right away from here. You have
the soup, Mary, and the whip?'

'Oh! do let me hold the whip, Mother,'
pleaded the shrill voice of her son, and Mother weakly consented.

'Tim is a darling, isn't he, Mother?' said the small voice, as they drove
past some cottages; 'but I expect he could be naughty. I wonder what he would
do if I gave him just a teeny, weeny touch with the whip! Would
you like to see?' The voice had a pleading note in it, and the blue
eyes looked very wistful.

'Oh, no, old man! That would be very unkind. Mother does not punish you when
you are quite a good boy, does she?'

'No--o,' doubtfully.

'Mother, if the whip was to touch him quite by accident, don't you wonder
what he would do? Just put your head down till I whisper something. Perhaps,'
in a low voice, 'he would buck-jump.

Wouldn't that be lovely?'

But Mother, who had already witnessed Tim's acrobatic performance in the stable
yard, did not take advantage of the offer.

'Lovely day,' she called out brightly, to an old woman who was sitting
outside her cottage door. 'How are you feeling? I must come---- ' but
the sentence remained unfinished, for at this point the donkey gave
a violent lurch forward, then, putting his head down, commenced to
kick just as hard as ever he could.

In vain did Mrs. Raeburn try to put a stop to it; neither voice nor
whip made the slightest impression upon him. He seemed to consider it
in the light of an exercise, which, to be of any permanent good,
must be continued for a certain length of time.

He finished by backing hard into the small wooden gate which led into
the old woman's trim, old-fashioned garden.

There
was a splintering, crackling noise, and Mary jumped out of the little cart to examine the amount
of damage done to the gate. Tim turned slowly round with quite a vexed
look in his eyes, scrutinised the gate also, then looked at Mary with a
reproachful look, as if trying to lay the blame on her innocent shoulders.

'I

am sorry,' murmured Mrs. Raeburn to the old woman, who had hobbled down
to the gate. 'Yes! he is a naughty donkey! I can't think what made
him kick just now.

Now, don't you worry about your pretty little gate; Major Raeburn will have it repaired at once.'

'What
can have made him kick just now, Mary?' she said, as they drove away; but Mary, instead of answering,
turned and stared fixedly at Harry.

As the stare, apparently, had not the desired result, she took hold of the
whip, still firmly clasped between Harry's fat little hands.

'Now then, Master Harry, what did you do to Tim just now?'

'Well, Mary,' in his most innocent tone of voice, 'I just touched Tim's
back very, very gently with it; just like this, Mother,' and the
young rascal raised the whip to give a demonstration.

Now, unfortunately for the occupants of the cart, Tim saw the whip;
he took advantage of the opportunity, and shied right into the shallow
ditch.

Away rolled the bowl of beef-tea from between Mary's hands, and the soup which had been so carefully
prepared for Mrs. Wood trickled down her white skirt in brown streams, and formed small pools upon the vacant
seat facing her.

'Give me the whip at once, Harry,' said Mrs. Raeburn angrily. 'You are a very
disobedient little boy. Now poor old Mrs. Wood won't have any dinner.
Well, Mary,' with a sigh of resignation, 'as we have no soup, we might drive
on to the Common for a blow.'

(Continued on page 402.)

A GENTLE DONKEY.

(Continued from page 399.)

Peace was soon restored, and by the time
that the Common was reached, Mrs. Raeburn had again quite explained
away the donkey's behaviour.

'He is evidently very nervous,' she said. 'Poor little beast! Perhaps he has been ill-treated at some
time, and dreads the sight of the whip from sad experience; we must take care not to frighten him again.'

'Yes,
Ma'am,' acquiesced Mary meekly. 'The mistress drives horses beautifully,' she confided to Nannie
later, 'but she knows nothing about donkeys and their artful ways. You take my word
for it, that donkey is a wicked one.'

'Now then, pretty one!' chirruped Mrs. Raeburn to Tim as they rambled along
the broad road on the Common, 'you must be good, and not show us
those naughty little heels again.' Tim whisked his tail in response
and trotted amiably along.

'Why, the road is quite gay to-day, Mary! Oh! of course, it is market-day.
Now, good little Tim, keep to the side of the road, so as not to
frighten these tired sheep.

Warm day!' she called out genially to a man who trudged wearily along behind his flock.

But in spite of her kindly precautions, the nervous sheep scuttled
across the road on to the heather-clad common, bleating plaintively:
then their scuttle became a run.

At sight of this flying column, Tim stopped, put his head on one side, and prepared to follow.

'No, thank you, Tim,' laughed Mrs. Raeburn as she tried to pull him
up.

'I have no
ambition to herd sheep. You little wretch!' she continued in quite a different tone of voice; for
Tim was in "full cry" after them.

Bump, bump, bump went the springless governess cart over the lumpy Common,
rocking from side to side like a boat in a storm.

'What are you doing?' yelled the herdsman.

'I'll report you, that I will, trying to steal my sheep.'

'This is very exciting,' whispered Harry. 'I like driving with you, Mother.'

But
Mother was not enjoying herself. Here was she, the wife of a Justice
of the Peace, apparently stealing a flock of sheep in broad daylight.

At this moment she could have killed Tim.

'This is dreadful, Mary,' she murmured. 'What can we do? Oh, these idiots
of sheep, why won't they stop?'

But the terrified sheep, instead
of stopping, only increased their speed.

Away they flew over the Common, and behind them, in hot pursuit, galloped
Tim, while round both sheep and governess cart barked the frantic sheep-dog.

On,
on they raced, over hillocks, through gorse bushes, down into treacherous
holes, till at last the gate leading out upon a narrow road was reached.

Through this surged the sheep, and close behind them tore Tim. The
cart gave a bone-shaking dump as it took the descent from grass to
hard road, and Mary, who at the beginning of Tim's flight, had opened
the door, was thrown out.

Suddenly a motor was seen coming towards them, along the narrow road,
and Mrs. Raeburn gave a gasp of fear.

'Hold your hand up, Harry. Quick--quick!'

Harry, eager to assist, raised both his arms.

'Hullo!' called a familiar voice: the motor came to a sudden standstill, and out of it jumped Major Raeburn.

'What
in all the earth are you doing, Maud?' he said in a voice of the
greatest astonishment, as he walked towards them; but Mrs. Raeburn
motioned him back.

'Turn the motor across the road as fast as you can, and don't let
one of these sheep pass it!'

So the panting sheep were stopped, and
Tim's race was at an end.

'And now, good people, please explain yourselves,' continued the Major.

'Oh,
Jack,' burst forth his wife, 'we have had the most awful morning
with Tim.

He has smashed Mrs. Laurence's gate, run off after these sheep, Mary is thrown
out, and I expect is lying dead somewhere, and I don't know where
the drover is.'

'And, Father,' interrupted Harry in his shrill treble,
'we have had such an exciting drive!

Mother can drive Tim just beautifully!'

'Well, look here!' said the Major, smiling, 'I suppose I must stay here
and speak to the drover of the sheep.

You two had better go home across the fields. I will drive Tim home,' he added, with a look in the direction
of the donkey.

Half an hour later the motor puffed into the stable yard, and close behind
it cantered Tim, looking a most angelic little donkey.

'Can't make the little beast out,' said Major Raeburn to his wife,
as they walked towards the house; 'I shall take him out myself to-morrow.'

(Concluded
on page 410.)

THE SINGING BIRD.

A singing bird within my heart Has
surely built a nest, For every morning when I rise So early from my
rest, I find a song for me to sing Is waiting in my breast.

One song
is of the flowers bright, That nod in every breeze, Of birds that
in the tree-tops dwell, Of butterflies and bees, Of fairy-haunted
woodland ways, And tall, dark, swaying trees.

Another song it softly
croons As from a far-off land: But this a deeper meaning has, I don't
quite understand, Because of all the mysteries That lie so close at
hand.

These sweet songs thrill me with delight-- I carol them all
day; I hope that cheerful singing bird Has really come to stay; But
whence it came and why it's here I'm sure I cannot say.

HUGE BIRDS.

Travellers
in all parts of the world hear strange and surprising tales about
the huge or wonderful creatures which the natives have seen, so they
say, and which, perhaps, they also declare they have hunted years
ago. People believed all these stories formerly, and put them in books
for the benefit of others; but matters have altered now. Travellers'
tales are not so plentiful, because they are not deceived as they
used to be, and when they are told, their truth is searched out. The
sea-serpent, for instance, has been 'seen' many times, and once at
least--in 1906--by properly trained scientific observers. But people
are still unwilling to believe entirely in its existence.

Some of
the commonest stories brought home from far countries have been about
the existence of gigantic birds, and, when we look into these, we
find they are not all fables. In many countries, birds quite unlike
any now seen, and of huge bulk, existed before man's time; and it
is evident that a few of these bird-monsters--shall we call them?--did
not vanish till a recent date, so that human beings had the chance
of making acquaintance with them.

Australia, New Zealand, and other
countries that are on the opposite side of the world to Britain, are
the home of many curious forms of life, animal or vegetable. New Zealand
has, in time past, been the habitation of a family of immense birds,
which have not died out very long. In fact, some suppose there are
retreats there where the birds still live, which are seldom or never
visited by men of any race. We have no English name for them, so we
must give them the Latin one of Dinornis. A search during 1870, amongst
the old cooking-pits, or ovens, in the Province of Canterbury, brought
to view sundry remains of the dinornis, being a sure sign that some
of the huge birds had been caught and cooked.

Farther back, in 1842,
there was an account of a strange bird the New Zealanders knew, and
called a Moa, published by a Mr. Williams. They told him it had lived
in places difficult to reach amongst the hills, and that their grandfathers
had seen the bird alive, but they themselves had not, though they
had discovered bones of the species in the mud of some rivers. According
to observations, the height of the dinornis may have been from twelve
to fourteen feet, or even more; it is supposed the birds were numerous
at one time, and lived to a great age. What their food was is only
to be guessed, probably vegetable, for the dinornis does not seem
to have been a bird of prey. The natives described them as running
or striding over the ground with tremendous speed, but nothing was
said about their being able to fly.

While searching volcanic sand,
Mr. Mantell came upon an immense egg-shell, for which he said that
his hat would hardly have been large enough to serve as cup. But the
size of a bird does not always indicate what that of the egg is, so
this may not have been one laid by a dinornis. Thus, the Apteryx,
or Kiwi, of New Zealand, a curious, almost wingless bird, lays an
egg which is about a quarter of its own weight.

Madagascar, in the
past centuries, had also its big bird, which has been named Oepyornis,
but only fragments of its bones have been obtained, and a few eggs,
mostly broken. It is reckoned, however, that, the average egg of the
Oepyornis must have been a foot long, and about two feet round, six
times as big as that of the ostrich. There was a fine bird, yet not
equal to these giants, named the Great Auk, which used to be found
at the North of Scotland, and elsewhere. It was a good swimmer and
diver, but has vanished.

CROWDED OUT.

We now know how false were those assertions, and indeed how  circumscribed was the power of
ancient Rome. She pretended to  universal as well as to eternal dominion; but she deceived
herself  in both cases. Under her sway the races of Japhet were not "to dwell in the tents
of Sem." She was not worthy of accomplishing the great prophecy which is now under our consideration.

It is, however, undoubtedly due to her that the children of Japhet  became the dominant race
of the globe, and the Eastern nations, once so active and so powerful, were overshadowed by
her glory, and had already fallen into that slumber which seems eternal.

Egypt was reduced so low that a victorious Roman general had only to appear on her borders
to insure immediate submission.

Syria and Mesopotamia were fast becoming the frightful deserts they  are to-day. Persia dared
not move in the awful presence of a few  legions scattered along the Tigris; and, if, later
on, the Parthian  kings made a successful resistance against Rome, it was only owing to the
abominable corruption of Roman society at the time; but, in fact, Iran had fallen to rise no
more, save spasmodically under Mohammedan rule.

The fact is, that, in the subsequent flood of barbarians which for  centuries overwhelmed and
destroyed the whole of Europe, we behold,  on all sides, streams of Northern European races,
members of the same family of Japhet. It was the Goths that ruined Palestine even in the time
of St. Jerome. If side by side with Northern nations the Huns appeared, no one knows precisely
whence they came. Attila called himself King of the Scythians and the Goths, as well as grandson
of Nimrod. He came with his mighty hosts from beyond the Danube; this is all that can be said
with certainty of his origin.

The East, therefore, was already dead, and could furnish no powerful  foe against that Rome
which it detested. It is even in this Oriental  supineness that we can find a reason for the
duration of the  inglorious empire of Constantinople. Rome and the West, though far  more vigorous,
were overwhelmed by barbarians of the same original  stock sent by Providence to "renew its
youth like that of the eagle."  Constantinople and the East continued for a thousand years
longer to  drag out their feeble existence, because the far Orient could not  send a few of
its tribes to touch their walls and cause them to  crumble into dust. It is even remarkable
that the armies of Mohammed  and his successors, in the flush of their new fanaticism, did
not  dare for a long time to attack the race of Japhet settled on the Bosporus. From their
native Arabia they easily overran Egypt and Northern Africa, Syria and Palestine, Mesopotamia
and Persia. But Asia Minor and Thrace remained for centuries proof against their fury, and,
whenever their fleets appeared in the Bosporus, they were easily defeated by the unworthy successors
of Constantine and Theodosius. This fact, which has not been sufficiently noticed, shows conclusively
that the energy imparted by Mohammedanism to Oriental nations would have lasted but a short
time, and encountered in the West a successful resistance, had not the Turks appeared on the
scene, destroyed the Saracen dynasties, and, by infusing the blood of Central Asia into the
veins of Eastern and Southern fanatics, prolonged for so many ages the sway of the Crescent
over a large portion of the globe.

This was the turning-point in human affairs between the East and the West. We do not write
history, and cannot, consequently, enter into details. It is enough to say that a new element,
strengthened by a long struggle with Moslemism, was to give to the West a lasting  preponderance
which ancient Rome could not possess, and whose developments we see in our days. This new element
was the Christian religion, solidly established on the ruins of idolatry and heresy; far more
solidly established, consequently, than under the Christian emperors of Rome, while paganism
still existed in the capital itself.

The Christian religion, which was to make one society of all the children of Adam; which, at
its birth, took the name of universal or catholic (whereas previously all religions had been
merely national, and therefore very limited in their effects upon mankind at large); which
alone was destined to establish and maintain, through all ages, spite of innumerable obstacles,
a real universal sway over all nations and tribes--the Christian religion alone could give
one race preponderance over others until all should become, as it were, merged into one.

At first it seemed that Providence destined that high calling for the Semitic branch of the
human family. The Hebrew people, trained by God himself, through so many ages, for the highest
purposes, finally gave birth to the great Leader who, by redeeming all men, was to gather them
all into one family. This Leader, our divine Lord, himself a Hebrew, chose twelve men of the
same nation to be the founders of the great edifice. We know how, the divine plan was frustrated
by the stubbornness of the Jews, who rejected the corner-stone of the building, to be themselves
dashed against its walls and destroyed. The sons of Japhet were substituted for the sons of
Sem, Europe for Asia, Rome for Jerusalem; and the real commencement of the lasting preponderance
of the West dates from the establishment of the Christian Church in Rome. 

They ravaged Pannonia, routed two Roman armies, laid Thessaly in waste, and threatened Constantinople.
The Emperor Theodosius, A.D. 446, purchased peace by an ignominious tribute, so great as to reduce
many leading families to poverty. "The scourge of God" then turned his steps to the more exhausted
fields of the western provinces, and invaded Gaul. The Visigoths had there established a kingdom,
hostile to the Vandal power. The Huns and the Vandals united, with
all the savage legions which could be collected from Lapland to the
Indus, against the Goths and imperial forces under the command of Aetius.
"Never," says Thierry, [Footnote: Histoire d'Attilla, vol. i. p. 141] "since
the days of Xerxes, was there such a gathering of nations as now followed
the standard of Attila, some five hundred thousand warriors--Huns,
Alans, Gepidae, Neuvi, Geloni, Bastarnae, Heruli, Lombards, Belloniti,
Rugi, some German but chiefly Asiatic tribes, with their long quivers
and ponderous lances, and cuirasses of plaited hair, and scythes,
and round bucklers, and short swords."

This heterogeneous host, from the Sarmatian plains, and the banks
of the Vistula and Niemen, extended from Basle to the mouth of the Rhine.
Attila directed it against Orleans, on the Loire, an important strategic
position. Aetius went to meet him, bringing all the barbaric auxiliaries
he could collect--Britons, Franks, Burgundians, Sueves, Saxons, Visigoths.
It was not so much Roman against barbarian, as Europe against Asia, which
was now arrayed upon the plains of Champagne, for Orleans had fallen into
the hands of the Huns. There, at Chalons, was fought the most decisive
and bloody battle of that dreadful age, by which Europe was delivered
from Asia, even as at a later day the Saracens were shut out of France
by Charles Martel.

"Bellum atrox, multiplex, immane, pertinax, cui simile nulla usquam narrat antiquitas." [Footnote:
Jordanes.] Attila began the fight; on his left were the Ostrogoths
under Vladimir, on his right were the Gepidae, while in the centre
were stationed the Huns, with their irresistible cavalry.

Aetius stationed the Franks and Burgundians, whose loyalty he doubted, in the centre, while
he strengthened his wings, and assumed the command of his own left.

The Huns, as expected, made their impetuous charge; the Roman army was
cut in two; but the wings of Aetius overlapped the cavalry of Attila, and
drove back his wings. Attila was beaten, and Gaul was saved from
the Slavonic invaders.

It is computed that three hundred thousand barbarians, on both sides,
were slain--the most fearful slaughter recorded in the whole annals
of war. The discomfited king of the Huns led back his forces to the Rhine,
ravaging the cities and villages through which he passed, and collected
a new army.

The following
year he invaded Italy.

[Sidenote: The Roman general Aetius.]

[Sidenote: Retreat of Attila.]

Aetius alone remained to stem the barbaric hosts. He had won one of the greatest
victories of ancient times, and sought for a reward. And considering the
brilliancy of his victory, and the greatness of his services, the
marriage of his son with the princess Eudoxia was not an unreasonable
object of ambition.

But his greatness made him unpopular with the debauched court at Ravenna, and he was left without
a sufficient force to stem the invasion of the Huns. Aquileia, the most important and strongly fortified city
of Northern Italy, for a time stood out against the attack of the barbarians,
but ultimately yielded. Fugitives from the Venetian territory sought a refuge among
the islands which skirt the northern coast of the Adriatic--the haunts of
fishermen and sea-birds. There Venice was born, which should revive the
glory of the West, and write her history upon the waves for a thousand
years. Attila had spent the spring in his attack on Aquileia, and the summer
heats were unfavorable for further operations, and his soldiers clamored for
repose; but, undaunted by the ravages which sickness produced in
his army, he resolved to cross the Apennines and give a last blow to Rome. Leo
again sought the barbarians' camp, and met with more success than
he did with the Vandals. Attila consented to leave Italy in consideration
of an annual tribute, and the promise of the hand of the princess Honoria,
sister of the Emperor Valentinian, who, years before, in a fit of
female spitefulness for having been banished to Constantinople, had
sent her ring as a gage d'amour to the repulsive barbarian.

He then retired to the Danube by the passes of the Alps, where he spent
the winter in bacchanalian orgies and preparations for an invasion of
the eastern provinces. But his career was suddenly cut off by the
avenging poniard of Ildigo, a Bactrian or Burgundian princess, whom
he had taken for one of his numerous wives, and whose relations he had slain.

[Sidenote:
Disasters of the Huns.]

On his death, the German tribes refused longer to serve under the divided
rule of his sons, and after a severe contest with the more barbarous
Huns, the empire of Attila disappeared as one of the great powers
of the world, and Italy was delivered forever from this plague of
locusts.

The battle of Netad, in which they suffered a disastrous defeat,
was perhaps as decisive as the battle of Chalons. They returned to Asia,
or else were gradually worn out in unavailing struggles with the
Goths.

[Sidenote: The Avars.]

The Avars, a tribe of the great Turanian race, and kindred to the
Huns, a few years after their retreat, crossed the Danube, established
themselves between that river and the Save, invaded the Greek empire,
and ravaged the provinces almost to the walls of Constantinople.

It would seem from Sheppard that the Avars had migrated from the
very centre of Asia, two thousand miles from the Caspian Sea, fleeing
from the Turks who had reduced them to their sway.

[Footnote: Sheppard, Lect. iv.] In their migration to the West, they
overturned every thing in their way, and spread great alarm at Constantinople.
Justinian, then an old man, A.D. 567, purchased their peace by an annual
tribute and the grant of lands. In 582, the Avar empire was firmly established
on the Danube, and in the valleys of the Balkan.

But it was more hostile to the Slavic tribes, than to the Byzantine Greeks, who then occupied the centre
and southeast of Europe, and who were reduced to miserable slavery.
With the Franks, the Avars also came in conflict, and, after various
fortunes, were subdued by Charlemagne.

Their subsequent history cannot here be pursued, until they were
swept away from the roll of the European nations.

Moreover, it was not until after the fall of Rome, that they were
formidable.

[Sidenote: Final disasters of the empire.]

[Sidenote: Imbecile emperors.]

The real drama of the fall of Rome closes with the second sack of
the city by the Vandals, since the imperial power was nearly prostrated
in the West, and shut up within the walls of Ravenna.

But Italy was
the scene of great disasters for twenty years after, until the last of the emperors--Augustulus Romulus;
what a name with which to close the series of Roman emperors!--was
dethroned by Odoacer, chief of the Heruli, a Scythian tribe, and Rome
was again stormed and sacked, A.D. 476. During these twenty years, the
East and the West were finally severed, and Italy was ruled by barbaric
chieftains, and their domination permanently secured. Valentinian, the
last emperor of the race of Theodosius, was assassinated in the year
455 (at the instigation of the Senator Maximus, of the celebrated
Anician family, whose wife he had violated), a man who had inherited
all the weaknesses of his imperial house, without its virtues, and
under whose detestable reign the people were so oppressed with taxes
and bound down by inquisitions that they preferred the barbarians
to the empire.

The successive reigns of Maximus, Avitus, Majorian, Severus, Anthemius, Olybrius, Glycerius, Nepos,
and Augustulus, nine emperors in twenty--one years, suggests nothing but disorder and revolution.
The murderer of Valentinian reigned but three months, during which Rome was sacked by the Vandals.
Avitus was raised to his vacant throne by the support of the Visigoths
of Gaul, then ruled by Theodoric, a majestic barbarian, and the most
enlightened and civilized of all the leaders of the Gothic hosts who
had yet appeared.

He fought and vanquished the Suevi, who had established themselves in Spain, in the name of the emperor whom
he had placed upon the throne, but he really ruled on both sides of the
Alps, and Avitus was merely his puppet, and distinguished only for
his infamous pleasures, although, as a general, he had once saved
the empire from the Huns.

[Sidenote: Last days of Rome.]

He was in turn deposed by Count Ricimer, a Sueve, and generalissimo
of the Roman armies, and Majorian, whom Ricimer thought to make a
tool, was placed in his stead. But he was an able and good man, and
attempted to revive the traditions of the empire, and met the fate
of all reformers in a hopeless age, doubtless under the influence
of Ricimer, who substituted Severus, a Lucanian, who perished by
poison after a reign of four years, so soon as he became distasteful
to the military subordinate, who was all-powerful at Rome, and who
ruled Italy for six years without an emperor with despotic authority.

During these six years Italy was perpetually ravaged by the Vandals,
who landed and pillaged the coast, and then retired with their booty.
Ricimer, without ships, invoked the aid of the court of Constantinople,
who imposed a Greek upon the throne of Italy.

Though a man of great ability, Anthemius, the new emperor, was unpopular
with the Italians and the barbarians, and he, again, was deposed by
Ricimer, and Olybrius, a senator of the Anician house, reigned in his stead,
A.D. 472. It was then that Rome for the third time was sacked by one of her
own generals. Olybrius reigned but a few months, and Glycerius, captain
of his guard, was selected as his successor--an appointment disagreeable
to the Greek Emperor Leo, who opposed to him Julius Nepos--a distinguished
general, who succeeded in ejecting Glycerius.

The Visigoths, offended, made war upon Roman Gaul. Julius sent against them
Orestes, a Pannonian, called the Patrician, who turned a traitor,
and, on the assassination of Julius, entered Ravenna in triumph.
His son, christened Romulus, the soldiers elevated upon a shield and
saluted Augustus; but as he was too small to wear the purple robe, they
called him Augustulus--a bitter mockery, recalling the battle of
Actium, and the foundation of Rome.

He was the last of the Caesars. It was easier to make an emperor than keep him in his place. The bands
of Orestes clamored for lands equal to a third of Italy. Orestes hesitated, and refused the demand.
The soldiers were united under Odoacer--chief of the Heruli, a general in the service of the Patrician--one
of the boldest and most unscrupulous of those mercenaries who lent their arms in the service of the government
of Ravenna. The. standard of revolt was raised, and the barbarian
army marched against their former master.

Leaving his son in Ravenna, Orestes, himself an able general trained
in the service of Attila, went forth to meet his enemy on the Lombard plains.
Unable to make a stand, he shut himself up in Pavia, which was taken
and sacked, and Orestes put to death. The barbarians then marched to Ravenna,
which they took, with the boy who wore the purple, who was not slain
as his father was, but pensioned with six thousand crowns, and sent
to a Campanian villa, which once belonged to Sulla and Lucullus.

The throne of the Caesars was hopelessly subverted, and Odoacer was
king of Italy, and portioned out its lands to his greedy followers,
A.D. 476.

He was not unworthy of his high position, but his kingdom was in a sad state of desolation, and after
a reign of fourteen years he was in turn supplanted by the superior
genius of Theodoric, king of the Ostrogoths, under whom a new era
dawned upon Italy and the West, A.D. 490.

[Sidenote: Dismemberment of the empire.]

The Roman empire was now dismembered, and the various tribes of barbarians,
after a contest of two hundred years were fairly settled in its provinces.

[Sidenote:
The settlement of the Ostrogoths in Italy.]

In Italy we find the
Ostrogoths as a dominant power, who, migrating from the mouth of the
Danube, with all the barbarians they could enlist under the standard
of Theodoric, prevailed over Odoacer, and settled in Italy.

The Gothic kingdom was assailed afterward by Belisarius and Narses, the great generals of Justinian,
also by the Lombards under Alboin, who maintained themselves in the north of Italy.

[Sidenote: The settlement of the franks in Gaul.]

Gaul was divided among the Franks, the Burgundians, and the Visigoths,
whose perpetual wars, and whose infant kingdom, it is not my object
to present.

[Sidenote: The settlement of the Saxons in Britain.]

Britain was possessed by the Saxons, Spain by the Vandals, Suevi, and Visigoths, and Africa by the
Vandals, while the whole eastern empire fell into the hands of the Saracens, except Constantinople,
which preserved the treasures of Greek and Roman civilization, until the
barbarians, elevated by the Christian religion, were prepared to ingraft
it upon their own rude laws and customs.

It would be interesting to trace the various fortunes of these Teutonic
tribes in the devastated provinces which they possessed by conquest.
But this would lead us into a boundless field, foreign to our inquiry.
It is the fall of Rome, not the reconstruction by the new races,
which I seek to present.

It would also be interesting to survey the old capital of the world in the hands of her various
masters, pillaged and sacked by all in turn; but her doom was sealed
when Alaric entered the gates which had been closed for six hundred
years to a foreign enemy, and the empire fell, virtually, when the
haughty city, so long a queen among the nations, yielded up her palaces
as spoil.

The eastern empire had a longer life, but it was inglorious when Rome was no longer the superior city.

[Sidenote: Reflections on the fall of the empire.]

The story of the fall of the grandest empire ever erected on our earth
is simple and impressive.

Genius, energy, and patience led to vast possessions, which were retained by a uniform policy which nothing
could turn aside. Prosperity and success led to boundless self-exaggeration and a depreciation of enemies, while
the vices of self-interest undermined gradually all real strength. Society became utterly demoralized
and weakened, and there were no conservative forces sufficiently, strong
to hold it together. Vitality was destroyed by disproportionate fortunes,
by slavery, by the extinction of the middle classes, by the degradation
of woman, by demoralizing excitements, by factitious life, by imperial
misrule, by proconsular tyranny, by enervating vices, by the absence
of elevated sentiments, by an all- engrossing abandonment to money-making
and the pleasures it procured, so that no lofty appeal could be made
to which the degenerate people would listen, or which they could understand.

The empire was rotten to the core--was steeped in selfishness, sensuality, and frivolity, and the poison pervaded
all classes and orders, and descended to the extremities of the social system. What could be done?
There was no help from man. The empire was on the verge of dissolution when the barbarians came. They only
gave a shock and hastened the fall. The empire was ripe fruit, to be plucked
by the strongest hand.

Three centuries earlier a brave resistance would have been' made,
and the barbarians would have been overthrown and annihilated or sold
as slaves.

But they were now the stronger, even with their rude weapons, and without the arts of war which
the Romans had been learning for a thousand years. Yet they suffered prodigious losses before they became
ultimately victorious. But they persevered, driven by necessity
as well as the love of adventure and rapine.

Wave after wave was rolled back by desperate generals; but the tide
returned, and swept all away.

Fortunately, they reconstructed after they had once destroyed. They
were converts of Christianity, and had sympathy with many elements
of civilization.

"Some solitary sparks fell from the beautiful world that was passed
upon the night of their labors."

These kindled a fire which has never been extinguished. They had, with all
their barbarism, some great elements of character, and in all the solid
qualities of the heart, were superior to the races they subdued. They
brought their fresh blood into the body politic, and were alive to
sentiments of religion, patriotism, and love.

They were enthusiastic, hopeful, generous, and uncontaminated by those subtle vices which ever lead
to ruin. They made innumerable mistakes, and committed inexcusable
follies.

But, after a long pilgrimage, and severely disciplined by misfortunes,
they erected a new fabric, established by the beautiful union of German
strength and Roman art, on the more solid foundations of Christian
truth.

* * * * *

The authorities for this chapter are not numerous.

They are the historians of the empire in its decline and miseries.
Gibbon's history is doubtless the best in English. He may be compared
with Tillemont's Hist, des Emperors.

Sheppard has written an interesting and instructing book on this period, but
it pertains especially to the rise of the new barbaric states. Tacitus' chapter
on the Manners of the Germans should be read in connection with the wars.
Gibbon quotes largely from Ammianus Marcellinus, who is the best Latin
historian of the last days of Rome. Zosimus is an authority, but he is brief. Procopius
wrote a history of the Vandal wars. Gregory of Tours describes the desolations
in Gaul, as well as Journandes.

The writings of Jerome, Augustine, and other fathers, allude somewhat to the miseries and wickedness of
the times. But of all the writers on this dark and gloomy period, Gibbon
is the most satisfactory and exhaustive; nor is it probable he will
soon be supplanted in a field so dreary and sad.

[Sidenote: Nothing conservative in mere human creation.]

It is a most interesting inquiry why art, literature, science, philosophy,
and political organizations, and other trophies of the unaided reason
of man, did not prevent so mournful an eclipse of human glory as took
place upon the fall of the majestic empire of the Romans.

There can be no question that civilization achieved most splendid triumphs,
even under the influence of pagan institutions.

But it was not paganism which achieved these victories; it was the
will and the reason of a noble race, in spite of its withering effects.

It was the proud reason of man which soared to such lofty heights, and attempted to secure happiness and
prosperity. These great ends were measurably attained, and a self-sufficient
philosopher might have pointed to these victories as both glorious
and permanent. When the eyes of contemporaries rested on the beautiful
and cultivated face of nature, on commerce and ships, on military successes
and triumphs, on the glories of heroes and generals, on a subdued world,
on a complicated mechanism of social life, on the blazing wonders of
art, on the sculptures and pictures, the temples and monuments which
ornamented every part of the empire, when they reflected on the bright
theories which philosophy proposed, on the truths which were incorporated
with the system of jurisprudence, on the wondrous constitution which
the experience of ages had framed, on the genius of poets and historians,
on the whole system of social life, adorned with polished manners
and the graces of genial intercourse--when they saw that all these
triumphs had been won over barbarism, and had been constantly progressing
with succeeding generations, it seemed that the reign of peace and
prosperity would be perpetual.

It is nothing to the point whether the civilization of which all people boasted,
and in which they trusted, was superior or inferior to that which
has subsequently been achieved by the Gothic races.

The question is, Did these arts and sciences produce an influence sufficiently strong to conserve society?
That they polished and adorned individuals cannot be questioned. Did they infuse life into the decaying
mass? Did they prolong political existence? Did they produce valor and moral force among the masses?
Did they raise a bulwark capable of resisting human degeneracy or barbaric violence? Did they lead
to self- restraint? Did they create a lofty public sentiment which
scorned baseness and lies? Did they so raise the moral tone of society
that people were induced to make sacrifices and noble efforts to
preserve blessings which had already been secured.

[Sidenote: Civilisation can only rise to a certain height by unabled reason.]

I
have to show that the grandest empire of antiquity perished from the same causes
which destroyed Babylon and Carthage; that all the magnificent trophies
of the intellect were in vain; that the sources of moral renovation
were poisoned; that nothing worked out, practically and generally,
the good which was intended, and which enthusiasts had hoped; that
the very means of culture were perverted, and that the savor unto
life became a savor unto death.

In short, it will appear from the example of Rome, that man cannot
save himself; that he cannot originate any means of conservation
which will not be foiled and rendered nugatory by the force of human
corruption; that man, left to himself, will defeat his own purposes, and
that all his enterprises and projects will end in shame and humiliation,
so far as they are intended to preserve society.

The history of all the pagan races and countries show that only a limited height can ever be reached, and
that society is destined to perpetual falls as well as triumphs, and would move on in circles forever,
where no higher aid comes than from man himself.

And this great truth is so forcibly borne out by facts, that those profound
and learned historians who are skeptical of the power of Christianity, have generally
embraced the theory that nations must rise and fall to the end of time;
and society will show, like the changes of nature, only phases which
have appeared before.

Their gloomy theories remind us of the
perpetual swinging of a pendulum, or the endless labors of Ixion--
circles and cycles of motion, but no general and universal progress to a
perfect state of happiness and prosperity. And if we were not supported
by the hopes which Christianity furnishes, if we adopted the pagan principles
of Gibbon or Buckle, history would only confirm the darkest theories.

But the history of Greece and Rome and Egypt
are only chapters in the great work which Providence unfolds. They are
only acts in the great drama of universal life. Out of Europe she is incontestably the first power of the whole world. To
give a better idea of the extent of her dominion, we subjoin an abridged sketch from the "History
of a Hundred Years," by Cesare Cantu:

"In Europe she has colonies at Heligoland, Gibraltar, Malta, and the Ionian Isles.

"In Africa, Bathurst, Sierra Leone, many establishments on the coast of Guinea, the islands
of Mauritius, Rodrigo, Sechelles, Socotora, Ascension, St. Helena, and, most important of all,
the Cape Colony.

"In Asia, where she replaced the French and Dutch, she has, besides Ceylon, an empire of 150,000,000
of people in India, the islands of Singapore and Sumatra, part of Malacca, and many establishments
in China.

"In America, she is mistress of Canada, New Brunswick, and other eastern provinces; the Lucayes,
Bermudas, most of the Antilles, part of Guiana, and the Falkland Isles.

"In the Southern Ocean, the greater part of Australia, Tasmania, Norfolk, Van Diemen's Land,
New Zealand, and many other groups of Oceanica are hers.

"What other state can compete with her in the management of colonies, and in the selection
of situations from which she could command the sea? Jersey and Guernsey are her keys of the
Straits of Dover; from Heligoland she can open or shut the mouths of the Elbe and Weser; from
Gibraltar she keeps her eye on Spain and the States of Barbary, and holds the gates of the
Mediterranean. With Malta and Corfu she has a like advantage over the Levant. Socotora is for
her the key of the Red Sea, whence she commands Eastern Africa and Abyssinia. Ormuz, Chesmi,
and Buschir, give her the mastery over the Persian Gulf, and the large rivers which flow into
it. Aden secures the communication of Bombay with Suez.  Pulo Pinang makes her mistress of
the Straits of Malacca, and Singapore, of the passage between China and India. At the Cape
of Good Hope her troops form an advanced guard over the Indian Ocean; and from Jamaica she
rules the Antilles and trades securely with the rest of Central and South America.

"Englishmen have made a careful survey of the whole of the Mediterranean Sea, of the course
of the Indus, the Ganges, the Bramaputra, the Godavery, and other rivers of India; of the whole
littoral between Cape Colony and China; England has steamships on the Amazon and Niger, and
her vessels are found everywhere on the coast of Chili and Peru."

Other European families try to follow in her footsteps; at their head the United States now
stand. Primitively an offshoot of the English stock, the blood of all other Japhetic races
has given the latter country an activity and boldness which will render it in time superior
in those respects to the mother-country herself.

Yet at this time, even in the presence of the United States, in the presence of all other maritime
powers, England stands at the head of the Japhetic movement.

Unfortunately, her first aim, after acquiring wealth and securing her power, is, to exclude
the Roman Catholic Church as far as is practicable from the benefit of the system, to oppose
her whenever she would follow in the wake of her progress, and either to allow paganism or
Mohammedanism to continue in quiet possession wherever they exist, or to substitute for them
as far as possible her Protestantism. At all events, the Catholicity of the Church is to be
crushed, or at least thwarted, to make room for the catholicity of the English nation.

And it looks as though such, in truth, would have been the result, had not the stubbornness
of the Irish character stood in the way; if the Celt of Erin, after centuries of oppression
and opposition to the false wanderings of the European stream, had not insisted on following
the English lord in his travels, dogging his steps everywhere, entering his ships welcome or
unwelcome, rushing on shore with him wherever he thought fit to land, and there planted his
shanty and his frame church in the very sight of stately palaces lately erected, and gorgeous
temples with storied windows and softly-carpeted floors.

And after a few years the Irish Celt would show himself as active and industrious in his new
country as oppression had made him indolent and careless on his own soil; the shanty would
be replaced by a house worthy of a man; above all, the humble dwelling which he first raised
to his God would disappear to make room for an edifice not altogether unworthy of divine majesty;
at least, far above the pretentious structures of the oppressors of his religion. The eyes
of men would be again turned to "the city built upon a mountain;" and the character of universality,
instead of being wrested from the true Church, would become more resplendent than ever through
the steadfast Irish Celt.

Thus the spreading of the Gospel in distant regions would be accomplished without a navy of
their own. As their ancestors did in pagan times, they would use the vessels of nations born
for thrift and trade; the stately ships of the "Egyptians" would be used by the true "people
of God."

For them hath Stephenson perfected the steam-engine, so as to enable vessels to undertake long
voyages at sea without the necessary help of sails; for them Brunel and others had spent long
years in planning and constructing novel Noah's arks capable of containing all clean and unclean
animals; for them the Barings and other wealthy capitalists had embraced the five continents
and the isles of the ocean in their financial schemes; the Jews of England, Germany, and France,
the Rothschilds and Mendelssohns, had accumulated large amounts of money to lend to ship-building
companies; for them, in fine, the long-hidden gold deposits of California, Australia, and many
other places, had been discovered at the proper time to replenish the coffers of the godless,
that they might undertake to furnish the means of transportation and settlement for the missionaries
of God!

And, to prove that this is no exaggeration, it is enough to look at the number of emigrants
that were to be carried to foreign parts, and that actually left England for her various colonies
or for the United States. How can this difficulty be got over? The truth is, that unless all constitutional
impediments in respect to forms be set aside, and the people take
it in hand to amend the constitution on revolutionary principles,
there can be no end of agitation on this subject in less than three
years.

I long since ventured the prediction that there would be no settlement of the difficulties in Kansas
until the next presidential election. To continue the agitation is too important to the interests
of both the great parties of the country to dispense with it, as long
as any pretext can be found for prolonging it. In the closing debate on the
Kansas-Nebraska Bill, I told its supporters that they could do nothing more
certain to disturb the composure of the two Senators who sat on the
opposite side of the chamber, the one from Massachusetts [Mr. Sumner]
and the other from Ohio [Mr. Chase], than to reject that bill. Its passage
was the only thing in the range of possible events by which their
political fortunes could be resuscitated, so completely had the Free-Soil
movement at the North been paralyzed by the compromise measures of
1850.

I say now to the advocates of this measure, if they want to strengthen the Republican party,
and give the reins of government into their hands, pass this bill. If they
desire to weaken the power of that party, and arrest the progress of
slavery agitation, reject it. And if it is their policy to put an
end to the agitation connected with Kansas affairs at the earliest day
practicable, as they say it is, then let them remit this constitution
back to the people of Kansas, for their ratification or rejection. In that
way the whole difficulty will be settled before the adjournment of the present
session of Congress, without the violation of any sound principle,
or the sacrifice of the rights of either section of the Union.

But the President informs us that threatening and ominous clouds impend
over the country; and he fears that if Kansas is not admitted under
the Lecompton constitution, slavery agitation will be revived in a
more dangerous form than it has ever yet assumed.

There may be grounds for that opinion, for aught I know; but it seems to me that if any of the
States of the South have taken any position on this question which
endangers the peace of the country, they could not have been informed
of the true condition of affairs in Kansas, and of the strong objections
which may be urged on principle against the acceptance by Congress
of the Lecompton constitution.

And I have such confidence in the intelligence of the people of the whole South, that when the history
and character of this instrument shall be known, even those who would be glad to find some plausible pretext
for dissolving the Union will see that its rejection by Congress
would not furnish them with such a one as they could make available
for their purposes.

When the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was under discussion, in 1854, in looking to all
the consequences which might follow the adoption of that measure, I could
not overlook the fact that a sentiment of hostility to the Union was widely
diffused in certain States of the South; and that that sentiment was only
prevented from assuming an organized form of resistance to the authority
of the Federal government, at least in one of the States, in 1851,
by the earnest remonstrance of a sister State, that was supposed to sympathize
with her in the project of establishing a southern republic.

Nor could I fail to remember that the project--I speak of the convention held in South Carolina, in pursuance
of an act of the legislature--was then postponed, not dropped. The
argument was successfully urged that an enterprise of such magnitude ought
not to be entered upon without the co-operation of a greater number
of States than they could then certainly count upon. It was urged that all the cotton-planting
States would, before a great while, be prepared to unite in the movement,
and that they, by the force of circumstances, would bring in all the slaveholding
States. The ground was openly taken, that separation was an inevitable
necessity. It was only a question of time. It was said that no new aggression
was necessary on the part of the North to justify such a step. It was said
that the operation of this government from its foundation had been adverse
to southern interests; and that the admission of California as a
free State, and the attempt to exclude the citizens of the South,
with their property, from all the territory acquired from Mexico,
was a sufficient justification for disunion.

It was not a mere menace to deter the North from further aggressions. These
circumstances made a deep impression on my mind at the time, and from
a period long anterior to that I had known that it was a maxim with
the most skillful tacticians among those who desire separation, that
the slaveholding States must be united--consolidated into one party.

That object once effected, disunion, it was supposed, would follow
without difficulty.

I had my fears that the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was expected to consolidate
the South, and to pave the way for the accomplishment of ulterior
plans by some of the most active supporters of that measure from
the South; and these fears I indicated in the closing debate on that
subject.

Some of the supporters of that measure, I fear, are reluctant now to abandon the chances of finding some
pretext for agitating the subject of separation in the South in the
existing complications of the Kansas embroilment.

To what extent the idea of disunion is entertained in some of the Southern States, and what importance
is attached to the policy of uniting the whole South in one party as
a preliminary step, may be inferred from a speech delivered before
the Southern convention lately held in Knoxville, Tenn., by Mr. De Bow,
the president of the convention, and the editor of a popular Southern review.
I will only refer now to the fate to which the author resigns those
who dare to break the ranks of that solid phalanx in which he thinks
the South should be combined--that is, to be "held up to public scorn
and public punishment as traitors and Tories, more steeped in guilt
than those of the Revolution itself."

The honorable Senator from New York further announced to us in exultant
tones, that "at last there was a North side of this Chamber, a North side
of the Chamber of the House of Representatives, and a North side of
the Union, as well as a South side of all these"; and he admonished
us that the time was at hand when freedom would assert its influence
in the regulation of the domestic and foreign policy of the country.

When was there a time in the history of the government that there was no North side of this Chamber and of
the other? When was there a time that there was not a proud array of Northern men in both Chambers,
distinguished by their genius and ability, devoted to the interests of the
North, and successful in maintaining them?

Though it may be true that Southern men have filled the executive
chair for much the larger portion of the time that has elapsed since
the organization of the government, yet when, in what instance was
it, that a Southerner has been elevated to that high station without
the support of a majority of the freemen of the North?

Do you of the North complain that the policy of the government, under the long-continued
influence of Southern Presidents, has been injurious or fatal to your
interests? Has it paralyzed your industry?

Has it crippled your resources? Has it impaired your energies? Has it checked your progress in any
one department of human effort? Let your powerful mercantile marine, your ships whitening every sea--the fruit
of wise commercial regulations and navigation laws; let your flourishing agriculture, your astonishing
progress in manufacturing skill, your great canals, your thousands of
miles of railroads, your vast trade, internal and external, your
proud cities, and your accumulated millions of moneyed capital, ready
to be invested in profitable enterprises in any part of the world,
answer that question.

Do you complain of a narrow and jealous policy under Southern rule, in
extending and opening new fields of enterprise to your hardy sons in the
great West, along the line of the great chain of American lakes, even to the
head waters of the Father of Rivers, and over the rich and fertile
plains stretching southward from the lake shores?

Let the teeming populations--let the hundreds of millions of annual
products that have succeeded to the but recent dreary and unproductive
haunts of the red man--answer that question.

That very preponderance of free States which the Senator from New York contemplates with such satisfaction, and
which has moved him exultingly to exclaim that there is at last a North side of this Chamber, has been hastened
by the liberal policy of Southern Presidents and Southern statesmen; and has it become the ambition
of that Senator to unite and combine all this great, rich, and powerful
North in the policy of crippling the resources and repressing the
power of the South?

Is this to be the one idea which is to mold the policy of the government, when that gentleman and
his friends shall control it? If it be, then I appeal to the better feelings and the better judgment of
his followers to arrest him in his mad career. Sir, let us have some
brief interval of repose at least from this eternal agitation of
the slavery question.

Let power go into whatever hands it may, let us save the Union!

I have all the confidence other gentlemen can have in the extent to which this Union is intrenched in the hearts
of the great mass of the people of the North and South; but when I reflect upon and consider the desperate
and dangerous extremes to which ambitious party leaders are often
prepared to go, without meaning to do the country any mischief, in the
struggle for the imperial power, the crown of the American presidency,
I sometimes tremble for its fate.

Two great parties are now dividing the Union on this question. It is
evident to every man of sense, who examines it, that practically,
in respect to slavery, the result will be the same both to North and
South; Kansas will be a free State, no matter what may be the decision
on this question.

But how
that decision may affect the fortunes of those parties, is not certain;
and there is the chief difficulty.

But the greatest question of all is, How will that decision affect the country as a whole?

Two adverse yet concurrent and mighty forces are driving the vessel of
State towards the rocks upon which she must split, unless she receives
timely aid--a paradox, yet expressive of a momentous and perhaps a
fatal truth.

There is no hope of rescue unless the sober-minded men, both of the North and
South, shall, by some sufficient influence, be brought to adopt the wise maxims
and sage counsels of the great founders of our government.

TRANS-CONTINENTAL RAILROADS (Delivered in the United States Senate,
February 17th, 1858. in Support of the Pacific Railroad Bill)

An
objection made to this bill is, the gigantic scale of the projected
enterprise.

A grand idea it is. A continent of three thousand miles in extent from east to west, reaching from
the Atlantic to the Pacific, is to be connected by a railway! Honorable Senators
will remember, that over one thousand miles--one-third of this whole
expanse of the continent--the work is already accomplished, and that
chiefly by private enterprise.

I may, as a safe estimate, say, that a thousand miles of this railroad leading from the Atlantic to the
West, upon the line of the lakes, and nearly as much upon a line further south,
are either completed, or nearly so.

We have two thousand miles yet to compass, in the execution of a work which
it is said has no parallel in the history of the world. No, sir;
it has no parallel in the history of the world, ancient or modern,
either as to its extent and magnitude, or to its consequences, beneficent
and benignant in all its bearings on the interests of all mankind.

It is in these aspects, and in the contemplation of these consequences,
that it has no parallel in the history of the world--changing the
course of the commerce of the world--bringing the West almost in contact,
by reversing the ancient line of communication, with the gorgeous
East, and all its riches, the stories of which, in our earlier days
we regarded as fabulous; but now, sir, what was held to be merely
fictions of the brain in former times, in regard to the riches of
Eastern Asia, is almost realized on our own western shores.

Sir, these are some of the inducements to the construction of this great road, besides its
importance to the military defenses of the country, and its mail
communications.

Sir, it is a magnificent and splendid project in every aspect in which you can view it. One-third
of this great railway connection is accomplished; two-thirds remain to be. Shall we hesitate to go
forward with the work?

Now, with regard to the means provided for the construction of the road.
It is said, here is an enormous expenditure of the public money proposed.
We propose to give twenty millions of dollars in the bonds of the government,
bearing five per cent. interest, and fifteen millions of acres of
land, supposed to be worth as much more, on the part of the government.

This is said to be enormous, and we are reminded that we ought to look at what the people will say,
and how they will feel when they come to the knowledge that twenty millions in money and twenty millions
in land have been given for the construction of a railway! Some doubtless
there are in this chamber who are ready to contend that we had better give
these fifteen millions of acres of land to become homesteads for the landless
and homeless. What is this twenty millions in money, and how is it
to be paid? It is supposed that the road cannot be constructed in
less than five years.

In that
event, bonds of the government to the amount of four millions of dollars will issue annually. Probably
the road will not be built in less than ten years, and that will require an issue of bonds amounting
to two millions a year; and possibly the road may not be finished in less than twenty years,
which would limit the annual issue of bonds to one million. The interest upon
these bonds, at five per cent, will of course have to be paid out of the
treasury, a treasury in which there is now a surplus of twelve or
fourteen millions of dollars.

When the road is completed and the whole amount of twenty millions in lands is paid, making the whole
sum advanced by the government forty millions, the annual interest
upon them will only be two millions.

And what is that? Why, sir, the donations and benevolences, the
allowances of claims upon flimsy and untenable grounds, and other
extravagant and unnecessary expenditures that are granted by Congress
and the executive departments, while you have an overflowing treasury,
will amount to the half of that sum annually.

The enormous sum of two millions is proposed to be paid out of the treasury
annually, when this great road shall be completed!

It is a tremendous undertaking, truly! What a scheme! What extravagance!
I understand the cost of the New York and Erie road alone, constructed
principally by private enterprise, has been not less than thirty
millions--between thirty and thirty-three millions of dollars.

That work was
constructed by a single State giving aid occasionally to a company, which supplied the balance of
the cost. I understand that the road from Baltimore to Wheeling, when
it shall have been finished, and its furniture placed upon it, will have cost at least
thirty millions. What madness, what extravagance, then, is it for the
government of the United States to undertake to expend forty millions
for a road from the Mississippi to the Pacific.

Mr. President, one honorable Senator says the amount is not sufficient
to induce a capitalist to invest his money in the enterprise.

Others, again, say it is far too much; more than we can afford to give for the construction of the work.
Let us see which is right. The government is to give twenty millions in all out
of the treasury for the road; or we issue bonds and pay five per
cent, interest annually upon them, and twenty millions in lands, which,
if regarded as money, amounts to a cost to the government of two millions
per annum.

What are the objects to be accomplished? A daily mail from the valley
of the Mississippi to the Pacific; the free transportation of all troops
and munitions of war required for the protection and defense of our
possessions on the Pacific; which we could not hold three months in
a war either with England or France, without such a road.

By building this road we accomplish this further object: This road will be the most effective and powerful check
that can be interposed by the government upon Indian depredations and aggressions upon our frontiers
or upon each other; the northern tribes upon the southern, and the
southern upon the northern. You cut them in two. You will be constantly
in their midst, and cut off their intercommunication and hostile
depredations.

You will have a line of quasi fortifications, a line of posts and stations,
with settlements on each side of the road. Every few miles you will thus have
settlements strong enough to defend themselves against inroads of the
Indians, and so constituting a wall of separation between the Indian
tribes, composed of a white population, with arms in their hands. This
object alone would, perhaps, be worth as much as the road will cost;
and when I speak of what the road will be worth in this respect, I
mean to say, that besides the prevention of savage warfare, the effusion
of blood, it will save millions of dollars to the treasury annually,
in the greater economy attained in moving troops and military supplies
and preventing hostilities.

. . .

I have been thus particular in noting these things because I want
to show where or on which side the balance will be found in the adjustment
of the responsibility account between the friends and the opponents
of this measure--which will have the heaviest account to settle with
the country.

For myself, I am not wedded to this particular scheme. Rather than
have no road, I would prefer to adopt other projects. I am now advocating
one which I supposed would meet the views of a greater number of
Senators than any other.

I think great honor is due to Mr. Whitney for having originated the scheme, and having obtained the sanction
of the legislatures of seventeen or eighteen States of the Union. Rather than have the project altogether
fail, I would be willing to adopt this plan. It may not offer the same
advantages for a speedy consummation of the work; but still, we would have a road in
prospect, and that would be a great deal. But if gentlemen are to rise
here in their places year after year--and this is the fifth year
from the time we ought to have undertaken this work--and tell us it
is just time to commence a survey, we will never have a road.

The honorable Senator from South Carolina [Mr. Butler] says there ought
to be some limitation in this idea of progress, when regarded as
a spur to great activity and energy, as to what we shall do in our
day.

He says we have acquired California; we have opened up those rich regions on our western borders,
which promises such magnificent results; and he asks, is not that enough for the present generation? Leave
it to the nest generation to construct a work of such magnitude as this--requiring forty millions of dollars
from the government.

Mr. President, I have said that if the condition was a road or no road, I would regard one hundred
and fifty millions of dollars as well laid out by the government for the work; though I have no idea
that it will take such an amount. Eighty or one hundred millions of dollars will build the road.

But with regard to what is due from this generation to itself, or what may be left to the next generation,
I say it is for the present generation that we want the road. As to
our having acquired California, and opened this new world of commerce
and enterprise, and as to what we shall leave to the next generation,
I say that, after we of this generation shall have constructed this
road, we will, perhaps, not even leave to the next generation the
construction of a second one.

The present generation, in my opinion, will not pass away until it shall
have seen two great lines of railroads in prosperous operation between the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and within our own territory, and still leave quite
enough to the next generation--the third and fourth great lines of communication
between the two extremes of the continent. One, at least, is due to ourselves,
and to the present generation; and I hope there are many within the sound
of my voice who will live to see it accomplished. We want that new Dorado,
the new Ophir of America, to be thrown open and placed within the reach
of the whole people.

We want the great cost, the delays, as well as the privations
and risks of a passage to California, by the malarious Isthmus of Panama,
or any other of the routes now in use, to be mitigated, or done away with.
There will be some greater equality in the enjoyment and advantages of these
new acquisitions upon the Pacific coast when this road shall be constructed.
The inexhaustible gold mines, or placers of California, will no longer
be accessible only to the more robust, resolute, or desperate part
of our population, and who may be already well enough off to pay their
passage by sea, or provide an outfit for an overland travel of two
and three thousand miles.

Enterprising young men all over the country, who can command the pittance of forty or fifty dollars to
pay their railroad fare; heads of families who have the misfortune to be poor, but spirit and energy
enough to seek comfort and independence by labor, will no longer be restrained by the necessity of separating
themselves from their families, but have it in their power, with
such small means as they may readily command, in eight or ten days,
to find themselves with their whole households transported and set
down in the midst of the gold regions of the West, at full liberty
to possess and enjoy whatever of the rich harvest spread out before
them their industry and energy shall entitle them to.

It
will be theirs by as good a title as any can boast who have had the
means to precede them.

We hear much said of late of the justice and policy of providing a homestead, a quarter section
of the public land, to every poor and landless family in the country.
Make this road, and you enable every poor man in the country to buy
a much better homestead, and retain all the pride and spirit of independence.

Gentlemen here may say that the region of California, so inviting, and abundant in gold now, will soon be
exhausted, and all these bright prospects for the enterprising poor
pass away.

No, sir; centuries
will pass--ages and ages must roll away before those gold-bearing
mountains shall all have been excavated--those auriferous sands and alluvial
deposits shall give out all their wealth; and even after all these
shall have failed, the beds of the rivers will yield a generous return
to the toil of the laborer. Many things conspired to swell the number of his  adherents:
the ardent love for philosophy so inherent in the  Eastern Church, to the extent of many believing
that Plato was  almost a Christian, and his doctrines therefore endowed with  real authority;
the natural disposition of men to adopt the new  and a seeming rational explanation of unfathomable
mysteries;  the apparent agreement of his doctrine with certain passages of  Scripture, where
the Son is said to be inferior to the Father;  but chiefly the satisfaction it afforded to
a number of new  Christians who had embraced the faith at the conversion of  Constantine on
political rather than conscientious grounds, and  who were at once relieved of the supernatural
burden of  believing in a God-man, born of a woman, and dying on a cross.  Faith reduced to
an opinion; religion become a philosophy; a  mere man, let his endowments be what they might,
recognized as  our guide, and not overwhelming us with the dread weight of a  divine nature;
all this explains the historic phrase of St.  Jerome after the Council of Rimini, "The world
groaned and  wondered to find itself Arian."

Any person acquainted with ecclesiastical history knows how the  Church of Christ would have
surely become converted into a mere  rational school, under the pressure of these doctrines,
were it  not for the promises of perpetuity which she had received. 

We know also what a time it took to establish truth: how many  councils had to meet, how many
books had to be written, the  efforts required from the rulers of the Church, chiefly from
the  Roman pontiffs, to calm so many storms, to explain so many  difficult points of doctrine,
to secure the final victory. 

And, after all had been accomplished, there still remained the root of the evil engrafted in
what we call the philosophical  turn of mind of the Western nations--that is to say, in the
disposition to call every thing in question, to seek out strange  and novel difficulties, to
start war-provoking theories in the  midst of peace, to aim at founding a new school, or at
least to  stand forth as the brilliant and startling expounder of old  doctrines in a new form,
in fine to add a last name to the list,  already over-long, of those who have disturbed the
world by  their skill in dialectics and sophism.

Pelagius followed Arius, and his errors had the same object in  view in the long-run, to strip
our holy religion of all that is  spiritual and divine.

In the time of St. Augustine and St. Jerome, there existed among  Christians an extraordinary
tendency to embrace all possible  philosophical doctrines, even when directly opposed to the
first  principles of revealed religion; and, within the Church, the  danger of subtilizing
on every question connected with well- known dogmas was much greater than many imagine.

From the previous reflections we may learn how difficult it was  to establish, in pagan Europe,
a thoroughly Christian life and  doctrine; and that, after society had come to be apparently
imbued with the new spirit, it was still too easy to disturb the  flowing stream of the heavenly
graces of the Gospel. This  resulted, we repeat, from causes anterior to Christianity, from
sources of evil which the divine religion had to overcome, and  which too often impeded its
supernatural action. In fact, the  ecclesiastical history of those ages is comprised mainly
in  depicting the almost continual deviations from the straight line  of pure doctrine and
morality, and the strenuous efforts  assiduously made by the rulers of the Church against a
never- ceasing falling away.

Having taken this glance at the early workings of Christianity  through the rest of the world,
we may now turn fairly to the  immediate subject we have in hand, and trace its course in 
Ireland. From the very beginning we are struck by the  peculiarities--blessed, indeed--which
show themselves, as in all  other matters, in its reception of the truth. The island,  compared
with Europe, is small, it is true; but the heroism  displayed by its inhabitants during so
many ages, in support of  the religion which they received so freely, so generously, and  at
once, in mind as well as heart, marks it out as worthy of a  special account; and, from its
unique reception and adherence to  the faith, as worthy of, if possible, a natural explanation
of  such action beyond the promptings of Divine grace, since its  astonishing perseverance,
its unswerving faith, form to-day as  great a characteristic of the nation as they did on the
day of  its entry into the Christian Church.

We proceed to examine, then, the kind of idolatry which its  first apostle encountered on landing
in the island, and the ease  with which it was destroyed, so as to leave behind no poisonous
shoots of the deadly root of evil.

In order to understand the religious system of Ireland previous  to the preaching of the Gospel,
we must first take a general  survey of polytheism, if it can be so called, in all Celtic 
countries, and of the peculiar character which it bore in  Ireland itself.

Of old, throughout all countries, religion possessed certain  things in common, which belonged
to the rites and creeds of all  nations, and were evidently derived from the primitive  traditions
of mankind, and, consequently, from a true and Divine  revelation. Such were the belief in
a golden age, in the fall  from a happy beginning, in the penalty imposed on sin, which  gave
a reason for great mundane calamities--the Deluge chiefly-- the memory of which lived in the
traditions of almost every  nation; in the necessity of prayer and expiatory sacrifice; in
the transmission of guilt from father to son, expressed in all  primitive legislations, and
to this day preserved in the Chinese  laws and customs; in the existence of good and bad spirits,
whence, most probably, arose polytheism; in the hope of the  future regeneration of man, represented
in Greece by the  beautiful myth of Pandora's box; and, finally, in the doctrine  of eternal
rewards and punishments.

Each one of these strictly true dogmas underwent more or less of  alteration in its passage
through the various nations of  antiquity, but was, nevertheless, everywhere preserved in some
shape or form.

At what precise epoch did mankind begin wrongfully to interpret  these primitive traditions?
When did the worship of idols arise  and become universal? No one can tell precisely. All we
know for  certain is, that a thousand years before Christ idolatry  prevailed everywhere, and
that even the Jewish people often fell  into this sin, and were only brought back by means
of punishment  to the worship of the true God.

But if error tainted the whole system of worship among nations,  it differed in the various
races of men according to the variety  of their character. Ferocity or mildness of manners,
acuteness  or obtuseness of understanding, activity or indolence of  disposition, a burning,
a cold, or a temperate climate, a  smiling or dreary country, but chiefly the thousand differences
of temper which are as marked among mankind as the almost in-  finite variety of forms visible
in creation, gave to each  individual religion its proper and characteristic types, which 
in after-times, when truth was brought down from heaven for all,  imparted to the universal
Christian spirit a peculiar outward  form in each people, an interior adaptation to its peculiar
dispositions, destined in the Divine plan to introduce into the  future Catholic Church the
beautiful variety requisite to make  its very universality possible among mankind. 

"Judy (she's my wife) she tell me she heah Miss Anne when she axed ole missis mout she wear mo'nin' fur 'im.
I don' know how dat is; but when we buried 'im nex' day, she wuz de one whar walked arfter de coffin, holdin'
ole marster, an' ole missis she walked next to 'em."

"Well, we buried Marse Chan dyar in de ole grabeyard, wid de fleg
wrapped roun' 'im, an' he face lookin' like it did dat mawnin' down
in de low groun's, wid de new sun shinin' on it so peaceful.

Dat warn' so mighty long, 'cause ole marster he died dat fall, when dey
wuz fallerin' fur wheat--I had jes' married Judy den--an' ole missis
she warn' long behine him.

We buried her by him next summer. Miss Anne she went in de hospitals toreckly arfter ole missis
died; an' jes' fo' Richmond fell she come home sick wid de fever. Yo' nuvver would 'a' knowed her
fur de same ole Miss Anne. She wuz light ez a piece o' peth, an' so white, 'cep' her eyes an' her sorrel hyar,
an' she kep' on gittin' whiter an' weaker. Judy she sut'n'y did nuss her faithful. But she nuvver got no
betterment! De fever an' Marse Chan's bein' kilt hed done strain her, an' she died jes' 'fo'
de folks wuz sot free.

"So we buried Miss Anne right by Marse Chan, in a place whar ole missis
hed tole us to leave, an' dey's bofe on 'em sleep side by side over
in de ole grabeyard at home.

"An' will yo' please tell me, marster?

Dey tells me dat de Bible sey dyar won' be marryin' nor givin' in marriage
in heaven, but I don' b'lieve it signifies dat--does yo'?"

I gave him the comfort of my earnest belief in some other interpretation, together
with several spare "eighteen-pences," as he called them, for which
he seemed humbly grateful.

And as I rode away I heard him calling across the fence to his wife,
who was standing in the door of a small whitewashed cabin, near which
we had been standing for some time:

"Judy, have Marse Chan's dawg
got home?"

MR. BIXBY'S CHRISTMAS VISITOR.

BY CHARLES S. GAGE.

Appleton's Journal, December 30, 1871.

At the head of the first flight of stairs, and on opposite sides of the
landing, were the respective rooms of Mr. Bixby and Mr. Bangs. The house
in which they lived stood in a quiet and retired street on the lower
and western side of New York, a locality which was once inhabited by fashionable
families, afterward by old-fashioned families, and at the time of
our story by the keepers of boarding-houses for single men.

Mr. Henry Bixby and Mr. Alfred Bangs were single men--Mr. Bangs, the wine-merchant, because he liked wine and
song so well that he never had leisure to think of women, because he was fat, because he was red in the
face, and, if more reasons are necessary, because his fingers were chubby and short. For twenty years,
day by day, Mr. Bangs had been absorbed in business. For twenty years,
night after night, it had been his custom to entertain his friends at his
apartment in not a very quiet way. He was so happy, and bulbous,
and jolly, that he had never thought of marriage. Yet he might easily
have been mistaken by the casual observer for a family man.

He wore a white vest when it wasn't too cold; his linen was painfully plain. There was not a sign of
jewelry about him. He wore low shoes, which he tied with a ribbon.
This was Mr. Bangs.

Not quite so old in years as the opposite lodger was Mr. Bixby, known
to his few friends as a genial philosopher and poet, to the public as
the literary critic of one of the great daily papers.

He might have been thirty-five years of age, but, as he had lived more for others than for himself, as he
had made a study and not a pleasure of life, his gray eyes and the other features of his face suggested
to whoever met him a longer past. There was something about him that caused men to wonder, not what
he was, but what he had been.

For ten years Mr. Bangs and Mr. Bixby had been inmates of the house
together.

Mr. Bangs had been there longer. The present landlady had received
as a legacy from her predecessor, who did not care to take him away,
Mr. Bangs. As she said, she made a present of Bangs.

Long as they had known each other, the two lodgers were only acquaintances.

Sometimes, on a Sunday afternoon, they would walk out in company, stroll down
to the Battery, and there smoke their cigars and watch the ships, but beyond
this point of sociability, which neither enjoyed, there was nothing more.
Never had Bixby read Bangs any poem he had made, nor did ever Bangs
invite Bixby to meet his convivial friends of an evening to play
whist or to partake of his mulled ale.

In fact, Mr. Bixby had been often and with great enthusiasm voted an unsocial fellow by the cronies of Mr.
Bangs, but he rose somewhat in their estimation when they were informed that he had consented to
exchange rooms with their host.

"He isn't such a grouty fellow, after all," said Bangs.

"I told him that we were too near the street, and that some one had been
complaining to the landlady of our singing.

He didn't even
stop to think, but agreed to do it at once. He thought the light would be better here. Now, fellows,
I call that doing the fair thing."

And the speech of Mr. Bangs was applauded.

It was the morning of the day before Christmas that the change was
effected.

In the closet where had been the bottles, the decanters, glasses,
and pickle-jars of the late occupant, Mr. Bixby had arranged shelves,
and filled them with his books.

Over the mantel, from which Mr. Bangs had taken away a colored print of a bull-dog in an overcoat, Mr. Bixby
hung a fine engraving of the Madonna, and on the mantel itself he had placed his clock. It was a small
French clock under a crystal, so that its rapidly-swinging pendulum could be easily seen. All bachelors,
however negligent of their surroundings, have some one hobby among articles of furniture. It may be an
easy-chair, or a book-case, or a chandelier--there is one thing that
must be the best of its kind. There could be no doubt, from the care with
which Mr. Bixby placed his clock in its position, and from time to
time compared it with his watch, that this was his hobby. It had the three
requisites which he demanded in a clock. It kept correct time without failing,
its pendulum swung rapidly, and was plainly visible. Time past was
the happiness of Mr. Bixby, and this clock told him continually that
all was being done that could be done to induce the hours of every
day to go over to the majority.

He depended upon this clock. He was surer of its mechanism than of that of his own heart.

What with hanging his pictures and arranging his furniture, and with many other little things which
had to be done, Mr. Bixby was busily employed all day. But the task was not an unpleasant one. His heart
was in the work, for there was hardly an object in the room not nearly associated with some event in his past life. After
carefully brushing the dust from an old writing-desk, which had evidently
once belonged to a lady, he placed it upon the rug in front of the
fire.

Only on Christmas-eves was this desk opened.

"It is curious," thought Mr. Bixby, "that I should have moved this day, of
all days in the year!"

Often in his work he thought of stopping to take from the desk an
old packet of letters, and reading them once more.

But it was not yet time, and, moreover, he was continually interrupted. First, there came
some one to his door with "Two dozen Congress-water for Mr. Bangs;" then
one with "Mr. Bangs's boots," and another to tell Mr. Bangs that
"the pup was big enough to take away."

Finally, came Bangs himself, to complain of like interruptions, and
to bid him good-by.

"Here is some manuscript a boy left for you. You will have to attend both doors now. I am off to spend Christmas.
We are going to have a Tom-and-Jerry party in Jersey. You know--

"'The Tom-and-Jerry days have come, the happiest in the year!'

"Good rendering, eh? That isn't all:

"'I only wish to live till the juleps come again!'"

And Mr. Bangs laughed uproariously, even after he had said, "Good-by,"
and shut the door behind him.

"What a personification of Bacchus!" thought Mr. Bixby--

"'Ever laughing, ever young.'

"He will be young as long as he lives, but I am afraid that won't
be long.

If ever there was a man in immediate danger of apoplexy, Bangs is that
man."

It was after dinner when Mr. Bixby lighted his drop-light and sat down
before the fire. He pushed an ottoman in front of him, on which to rest
his feet, which he had comfortably encased in his slippers.

But the shadows in his new room did not please him. He could hardly
see the clock on the mantel.

The Madonna above was completely in the shade. So he lighted the chandelier above and sat down again,
hoping that no friend, either of his own or of Mr. Bangs, would interrupt
him. The desk was open at his feet. The package of letters lay near him
on the table. He placed his hand upon them, but let it rest there.
The hour had not quite arrived when he would read them.

He fell again into the reveries of the day. He lingered over the
thoughts of his better life ere he opened the packet which told of
its end. For the last ten years he had labored without ambition, and
had been successful. His name was well known as a journalist, and his salary was
ample. Before that time he had striven ambitiously, but fruitlessly, patiently,
but as in a quicksand, until, on a day, he had none to strive for
but himself, and then success had come.

Since noon, seven hours and twenty-nine minutes, said the clock before him. His
anniversary was near. Mr. Bixby drew the letters near him, and untied
the package. Just then there came a knock at his door, and, before he had determined
whether or not he should say, "Come in," the door opened, and an elderly
gentleman stepped into the apartment. Quietly he came in. There was no sound
attending his entrance except the knock. Mr. Bixby, looking up, saw a man of
more than ordinary height, with countenance rigid and puritanical in expression,
as though the mind which had formed it was one influenced more by justice
than mercy. His eyes were concealed by a pair of colored spectacles, but these,
as they caught and reflected the light, were brighter and more startling
than any eyes could have been. He was dressed in a long surtout, which
he wore closely buttoned, high dickey, and high black-silk stock,
which covered his throat to his chin.

His iron-gray hair was brushed somewhat pompously backward over his forehead,
and his whole effect was that of a gentleman of the generation which
wore bell-crowned hats and carried enormous canes with tassels.
But what attracted Mr. Bixby's particular attention were the wrinkles of his
face. These were in all places where wrinkles should not be.

One ran straight through the centre of his forehead, continuing the line of the nose upward to the
hair. Two others, starting from the bridge of the nose, ran diagonally down
to the nostrils. He was close-shaven, and his lips were straight and
thin. These peculiarities of his visitor Mr. Bixby had barely time
to mark when the gentleman said:

"Ah, Mr. Bangs, I am glad to find you in!"

Mr. Bixby never in his life more desired to be alone, and yet there was something
in this old man which so attracted him that he could not correct his mistake.
He felt a sudden fascination and desire to know more of him. Bangs was away and
could not be seen. The gentleman could not be very well acquainted with Bangs,
very probably never had seen him, or he would not have made such an error.
But nothing but the influence which seemed to proceed from his visitor
could have induced Mr. Bixby to answer as he did.

"Thank you, sir. Pray, take this chair."

As he said this, he arose and wheeled an easy-chair to the other side
of the table.

The elderly gentleman sat down.

"You have a very cheerful apartment here, Mr. Bangs."

"Yes. I always like to be comfortable."

"Of course," said the elderly gentleman.

"Will you remove your overcoat, sir?" asked Mr. Bixby, and immediately
repented it.

"Oh, no, I shall stop but a moment."

There was an interval of silence.

A block of coal broke open in the grate and fell apart.

A jet of gas burst forth and burned, then sputtered and went out. Mr. Bixby wondered on what business he had
come, and why he did not open the subject at once, if he was only intending to stop a moment.

"It is very disagreeable weather out," said the man with the pompous forelock, interrupting his
reflections.

"Snowing?" asked Bixby.

"No--sleet."

"Very unpleasant to have far to go such a night," suggested Bixby,
who could think of nothing better to say.

"Not at all," responded the old gentleman, authoritatively.

Bixby was silent again.

The old gentleman, leaning with his elbow on the table, began again.

"You
like to live well, Mr. Bangs?"

"I try to," answered Mr. Bixby.

"Yes."

"This must be some relative
of Bangs come to deliver him a lecture on his course of life. Why
don't he broach his advice at once?" thought Mr. Bixby. The visitor
here pulled a glove from his right hand, ran his fingers through his
hair, and then, in a more business-like tone, spoke again:

"Although
a stranger to you personally, Mr. Bangs, I have always taken a great
interest in your family. Mr. Bangs, I knew your father."

"Indeed!
I never heard him speak--"

"No, I dare say; it was near the end of
his life. I was near by, and rendered him some assistance, when he
died suddenly of apoplexy. He was not so much of a man as your grandfather."

"Was
he not?" asked Mr. Bixby, musingly. He was thinking how old the grandfather
of his friend Bangs must have been.

"No," continued the elderly gentleman;
"but even his judgment I never considered equal to that of your great-grandfather."

"Here
is, indeed, a friend--a friend of the family. Why is Mr. Bangs away?"
thought Mr. Bixby, and he bent his head a little, and looked under
the drop-light, to get a view of his visitor. He saw only the reflection
on his spectacles, and drew back suddenly, for fear of being detected.

"You
like a good song, I have heard, Mr. Bangs," came from the other side
of the table. "Have you any favorite?"

Mr. Bixby did not understand
this at all. The question puzzled him. Should he as Bangs fall in
the estimation of some relative if he admitted the fact? Or did his
visitor intend to sing? However, he felt compelled to be frank, so
he said:

"Oh, yes; I like a good song. Some of the Scotch ballads
please me most. There is 'The Land o' the Leal.'"

"A very fine song,
sir. A very fine song. It is a credit to any man to like that song."

The
old gentleman was excited. Mr. Bixby was just congratulating himself
on having given Bangs a lift, when his thoughts were turned into an
altogether new channel by the following remark:

"It was my impression,
however, that your taste ran rather in the way of drinking-songs.
I should have thought now you would have said, 'The Coal-Black Wine.'"

There
was something in the tone with which this was uttered that made Mr.
Bixby shudder. It ran through his mind that this man was some enemy
of Bangs--that he was dangerous. Startled by this sudden suspicion,
tremblingly he again peered under the shade. The wrinkle in the line
of the frontal suture was more deeply indented. The light on the spectacles
was brighter than ever.

"Mr. Bangs, I called on your opposite neighbor,
Mr. Bixby, to-night. I knocked on the door, but he was away."

"Yes,"
said Mr. Bixby, somewhat confused. He wished that Bangs had stayed
at home, and determined to end the interview as soon as possible.

"Yes.
I am sorry. I had a positive appointment with him. I am a great friend
of his."

"Does he know you?"

"Oh, no; we have never met personally
that he remembers. I am an old friend of the family.
After the wife, the brothers, and  the two daughters of the monarch, he was the most illustrious
convert gained by Patrick at the beginning of his apostleship.  He became a Christian at the
first appearance of the saint at  Tara, and immediately began to sing in verse his new belief,
as  he had formerly sung the heroes of his nation. To the end he  remained firm in his faith,
and a dear friend to the holy man  who had converted him. How could he, and all the chief converts
of Patrick, have believed so suddenly and so constantly in the  God of the Christians, if their
former life had not prepared  them for the adoption of the new doctrine, and if the doctrine
of monotheism had offered a real difficulty to their  understanding? There was, probably, nothing
clear and definite  in their belief in an omnipotent God, which is said to have been  the leading
dogma of Druidism; but their simple minds had  evidently a leaning toward the doctrine, which
induced them to  approve of it, as soon as it was presented to them with a solemn  affirmation.

In order to elucidate this point, we add a short description of  the labors and success of
this apostle.

In the year 432, Patrick lands on the island. By that time, some  few of the inhabitants may
possibly have heard of the Christian  religion from the neighboring Britain or Gaul. Palladius
had  preached the year before in the district known as the present  counties of Wexford and
Wicklow, erected three churches, and  made some converts; but it may be said that Ireland continued
in  the same state it had preserved for thousands of years: the  Druids in possession of religious
and scientific supremacy; the  chieftains in contention, as in the time of Fingal and Ossian;
the people, though in the midst of constant strife, happy enough  on their rich soil, cheered
by their bards and poets; very few,  or no slaves in the country; an abundance of food everywhere;
gold, silver, precious stones adorning profusely the persons of  their chiefs, their wives,
their warriors; rich stuffs, dyed  with many colors, to distinguish the various orders of society;
a deep religious feeling in their hearts, preparing them for the  faith, by inspiring them
with lively emotions at the sight of  divine power displayed in their mountains, their valleys,
their  lakes and rivers, and on the swelling bosom of the all- encircling ocean; superstitions
of various kinds, indeed, but  none of a demoralizing character, none involving marks of  cruelty
or lust; no revolting statues of Priapus, of Bacchus, of  Cybele; no obscene emblems of religion,
as in all other lands,  to confront Christianity; but over all the island, song,  festivity,
deep affection for kindred; and, as though blood- relationship could not satisfy their heart,
fosterage covering  the land with other brothers and sisters; all permeated with a  strong
attachment to their clan-system and social customs. It is moral truth that both sets us free and
demonstrates our freedom, and that makes harmony possible between
the mechanical theory of science and the teleological conception of
philosophy.

The scientific
understanding would plunge us into determinism and agnosticism; from
these, faith in the moral law alone can deliver us. In this sense Kant
destroyed knowledge to make room for a rational faith in a supersensible
world, to save the independence and dignity of the human self and
the spiritual values of his people.

In claiming a place for the autonomous personality in what appeared to be
a mechanical universe, Kant gave voice to some of the deeper yearnings
of the age.

The German Enlightenment, the new humanism, mysticism, pietism, and the faith-philosophy were all interested
in the human soul, and unwilling to sacrifice it to the demands of a rationalistic science or
metaphysics. In seeking to rescue it, the great criticist, piloted by the
moral law, steered his course between the rocks of rationalism, sentimentalism,
and scepticism.

It was his solution of the controversy between the head and the heart
that influenced Fichte, Schelling, and Schleiermacher. They differed
from Kant and among themselves in many respects, but they all glorified
the spirit, Geist, as the living, active element of reality, and
they all rejected the intellect as the source of ultimate truth.

They followed him in his anti-intellectualism, but they did not avoid, as he did, the attractive
doctrine of an inner intuition; according to them we can somehow grasp the supersensible in
an inner experience which Fichte called intellectual, Schelling artistic,
Schleiermacher religious.

The bankruptcy of the intelligence was overcome in their systems
by the discovery of a faculty that revealed to them the living, dynamic
nature of the universe.

They were all more or less influenced by the romantic currents of the times, seeking with Herder
and Jacobi an approach to the heart of things other than through the categories of logic. Like Lessing
and Goethe, they were also attracted to the pantheistic teaching of Spinoza, though rejecting its
rigid determinism so far as it might affect the human will. They likewise accepted the idea of development
which the leaders of German literature, Lessing, Herder, and Goethe,
had already opposed to the unhistorical Aufklärung, and which came
to play such a prominent part in the great system of Hegel.

Johann Gottlieb Fichte was born in Ramenau, Oberlausitz, May 19, 1762, the son of a poor weaver. Through
the generosity of a nobleman, the gifted lad was enabled to follow
his intellectual bent; after attending the schools at Meissen and
Schulpforta he studied theology at the universities of Jena, Leipzig,
and Wittenberg with the purpose of entering the ministry.

His poverty frequently compelled him to interrupt his studies by accepting private tutorships
in families, so that he never succeeded in preparing him self for the examinations. In 1790 he became
acquainted with Kant's philosophy, which two students had asked him
to expound to them, and to which he now devoted himself with feverish
zeal.

It revolutionized his entire mode of thought and determined the course of his life. The anonymous
publication of his book, Attempt at a Critique of all Revelation, in 1792, written from the Kantian point of view and mistaken
at first for a work of the great criticist, won him fame and a professorship at Jena (1794). Here,
in the intellectual centre of Germany, Fichte became the eloquent
exponent of the new idealism, which aimed at the reform of life as
well as of Wissenschaft; he not only taught philosophy, but preached
it, as Kuno Fischer has aptly said.

During
the Jena period he laid the foundations for his "Science of Knowledge" (Wissenschaftslehre) which
he presented in numerous works: The Conception of the Science of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation
of the Entire Science of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation of Natural Rights, 1796; The System
of Ethics, 1798--(all these translated by Kroeger); the two Introductions to the Science
of Knowledge, 1797 (trans. by Kroeger in Journal of Speculative Philosophy). The appearance of an article Concerning
the Ground of our Belief in a Divine World-Order, 1798, in which Fichte seemed to identify God
with the moral world-order, brought down upon him the charge of atheism,
against which he vigorously defended himself in his Appeal to the
Public and a series of other writings.

Full of indignation over the attitude which his government assumed in the matter, be offered
his resignation (1799) and removed to Berlin, where he presented his philosophical notions in
popular public lectures and in writings which were characterized
by clearness, force, and moral earnestness rather than by their systematic
form.

There appeared: The Vocation of Man, 1800 (translated by Dr. Smith);
A Sun-Clear Statement concerning the Nature of the New Philosophy, 1801
(trans. by Kroeger in Journal of Speculative Philosophy); The Nature
of the Scholar, 1806 (trans. by Smith); Characteristics of the Present
Age, 1806 (trans. by Smith); The Way towards the Blessed Life, 1806
(trans. by Smith).

After the overthrow of Prussia by Napoleon, in 1806, Fichte fled from Berlin to Königsberg and
Sweden, but returned when peace was declared in 1807, and delivered his celebrated Addresses to the German
Nation, 1807-08, in which he sought to arouse the German people
to a consciousness of their national mission and their duty even
while the French army was still occupying the Prussian capital.

Fichte was appointed professor of philosophy (1810) in the new University
of Berlin, for which he had been invited to construct a plan and in
the establishment of which he took a lively interest. During the last
period of his life he devoted himself to the development of his thoughts
in systematic form and wrote a number of books; most of these were
published after his death, which occurred January 27, 1814.

Among them we mention: General Outline of the Science of Knowledge, 1810 (trans. by Smith); The
Facts of Consciousness, 1813; Theory of the State, published 1820.

The Complete Works, edited by his son, J.H. Fichte, appeared 1843-46. New editions of particular works
are now appearing.

The world for Fichte is at bottom a spiritual order, the revelation
of a self-determining ego or reason; hence the science of the ego, or
reason, the Wissenschaftslehre, is the key to all knowledge, and
we can understand nature and man only when we have caught the secret
of the self-active ego.

Philosophy must, therefore, be Wissenschaftslehre, for in it all natural and mental sciences
find their ultimate roots; they can yield genuine knowledge only when and in so far as they are
based on the principles of the Science of Knowledge--mere empirical sciences having no real
cognitive value.

The ego-principle itself, however, without which there could be no knowledge, cannot be grasped by the
ordinary discursive understanding with its spatial, temporal, and causal categories. Kant is right: if
we were limited to the scientific intellect, we could never rise above the conception of a phenomenal
order absolutely ruled by the causal law. But there is another source of knowledge: in an act of inner
vision or intellectual intuition, which is itself an act of freedom,
we become conscious of the universal moral purpose; the law of duty
or the categorical imperative commands us to be free persons. We cannot refuse
to accept this law without abandoning ourselves as persons, without
conceiving ourselves as things, or mere products of nature; the choice
of one's philosophy, therefore, depends upon what kind of man one is--upon
one's values, upon one's will.

The type of man who is a slave of things, who cannot raise himself out of the causal mechanism,
who is not free, will never be able to conceive himself otherwise than as a cog in a wheel. Fichte accepts
the ego, or spirit, as the ultimate and absolute principle, because it alone can give our life
worth and meaning. Thus he grounds his entire philosophy upon a moral imperative which presents
itself to the ego in an inner vision. He also tells us that we can become immediately aware of the
pure activity of the ego, of our free action, in a similar act of intellectual intuition. But we cannot
know this free act unless we perform it ourselves; no one can understand the idealistic philosophy
who is not free; hence philosophy begins with an act of freedom--im
Anfang war die Tat.

In order that we may rise to free action, opposition is needed, and
this we get in the spatial-temporal world of phenomena, or nature,
which the ego creates for itself in order to have resistance to overcome.

Fichte conceives of nature as "the material of our duty," as the obstacle against which the ego
can exercise its freedom. There could be no free action without something to act upon, and there
could be no purposive action without a world in which everything happens according to law; and
such a causal world we have in our phenomenal order, which is the product of the absolute spiritual
principle. By the ego Fichte did not mean the subjective ego, the particular individual self with
all its idiosyncrasies, but the universal ego, the reason that manifests
itself in all conscious individuals as universal and necessary truth.

In his earlier period he did not define his thought very carefully, but in time the absolute ego
came to be conceived as the principle of all life and consciousness,
as universal life, and ultimately identified with God.

His philosophy is, therefore, not subjective idealism, although it was so misinterpreted, but objective
idealism; nature is not the creation of the particular individual
ego, but the phenomenal expression, or reflection, in the subject
of the universal spiritual principle.

Upon such an idealistic world-view Fichte based the ethical teachings
through which he exercised a lasting influence upon the German people
and the history of human thought.

The universal ego is a moral ego, an ego with an ethical purpose, that
realizes itself in nature and in man; it is, therefore, the vocation of
man to obey the voice of duty and to free himself from the bondage
of nature, to be a person, not a thing, to coöperate in the realization
of the eternal purpose which is working itself out in the history
of humanity, to sacrifice himself for the ideal of freedom.

Every individual
has his particular place in which to labor for the social whole; how
to do it, his conscience will tell him without fail. And so, too, the
German people has its peculiar place in civilization, its unique contribution
to make in the struggle of the human race for the development of
free personality.

It is Germany's mission to regain its nationality, in order that it may take the philosophical
leadership in the work of civilization, and to establish a State based upon personal liberty,
a veritable kingdom of justice, such as has never appeared on earth,
which shall realize freedom based upon the equality of all who bear
the human form.

The Fichtean philosophy holds the mirror up to its age. With the Enlightenment it glorifies
reason, the free personality, nationality, humanity, civilization, and
progress; in this regard it expresses the spirit of all modern philosophy.
It goes beyond the Aufklärung in emphasizing the living, moving,
developing nature of reality; for it, life and consciousness constitute
the essence of things, and universal life reveals itself in a progressive
history of mankind.

Moreover,
the dynamic spiritual process cannot be comprehended by conceptual thought, by the categories of a rationalistic
science and philosophy, but only by itself, by the living experience
of a free agent.

In the categorical imperative, and not in logical reasonings, the individual
becomes aware of his destiny; in the sense of duty, the love of truth,
loyalty to country, respect for the rights of man, and reverence
for ideals, spirit speaks to spirit and man glimpses the eternal.

Among the elements in this idealism that appealed to the Romanticists were its anti-intellectualism,
its intuition, the high value it placed upon the personality, its historical viewpoint, and its faith
in the uniqueness of German culture. They welcomed the Wissenschaftslehre
as a valuable ally, and exaggerated those features of it which seemed
to chime with their own views. The ego which Fichte conceives as universal
reason becomes for them the subjective empirical self, the unique personality,
in which the unconscious, spontaneous, impulsive, instinctive phase
constitutes the original element, the more extravagant among them
transforming the rational moral ego into a romantic ego, an ego full
of mystery and caprice, and even a lawless ego.

Such an ego is read into nature; for, filled with occult magic forces, nature can be understood only by the
sympathetic divining insight of the poetic genius. And so, too, authority and tradition, as representing
the instinctive and historical side of social life, come into their
own again.

Fichte's chief interest was centred upon the ego; nature he regarded
as a product of the absolute ego in the individual consciousness,
intended as a necessary obstacle for the free will.

Without opposition the self cannot act; without overcoming resistance it cannot become free. In order to
make free action possible, to enable the ego to realize its ends, nature must be what it is, an order
ruled by the iron law of causality. This cheerless conception of nature--which, however, was not Fichte's
last word on the subject, since he afterward came to conceive it as the revelation of universal life, or
the expression of a pantheistic God--did not attract Romanticism. It was Schelling, the erstwhile
follower and admirer of Fichte, who turned his attention to the philosophy of nature and so
more thoroughly satisfied the romantic yearnings of the age.

Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling was born at Leonberg, Würtemberg,
January 27, 1775, the son of a learned clergyman and writer on theology.
He was a precocious child and made rapid progress in his studies, entering
the Theological Seminary at Tübingen at the age of fifteen. Between
the ages of nineteen and twenty-two he wrote a number of able treatises
in the spirit of the new idealism, and was recognized as the most
talented pupil of Fichte and his best interpreter.

After the completion of his course at the University (1795), he became
the tutor and companion of two young noblemen with whom he remained
for two years (1796-98) at the University of Leipzig, during which
time he devoted himself to the study of mathematics, physics, and
medicine, and published a number of philosophical articles.

In 1798 he received a call to a professorship at Jena, where Fichte,
Schiller, Wilhelm Schlegel, and Hegel became his colleagues, and where he
entered into friendly relations with the Romantic circle of which
Caroline Schlegel, who afterward became his wife, was a shining light.

This was the most productive period of his life; during the next
few years he developed his own system of philosophy and gave to the world
his most brilliant writings.

The details given in this chapter on the various circumstances  connected with the introduction
of our holy faith into Ireland  were necessarily very limited, as our chief object was to speak
of the nation's preparation for it. In the following we treat  directly of what could only
be touched upon in the latter part  of this.

CHAPTER IV.

HOW THE IRISH RECEIVED CHRISTIANITY.

For the conversion of pagans to Christianity, many exterior  proofs of revelation were vouchsafed
by God to man in addition  to the interior impulse of his grace. Those exterior proofs are
generally termed "the evidences of religion." They produce their  chief effect on inquiring
minds which are familiar with the  reasoning processes of philosophy, and attach great importance
to truth acquired by logical deduction. To this, many pagans of  Greece and Rome owed their
conversion; by this, in our days,  many strangers are brought, on reflection, to the faith
of  Christ, always presupposing the paramount influence of divine  grace on their minds and hearts.

But it is easy to remark that, except in rare cases, those who  are gained over to truth by
such a process are with some  difficulty brought under the influence of the supernatural, 
which forms the essential groundwork of Christianity. This  influence, it is true, is only
the effect of the operation of  the Holy Ghost on the soul of the convert; but the Holy Ghost
acts in conformity with the disposition of the soul; and we know, by what has been said on
the character of religion among the  Romans and the Greeks in the earlier days of the Church,
that it  took long ages, the infusion of Northern blood, and the  simplicity of new races uncontaminated
by heathen mythology, to  inspire men with that deep supernatural feeling which in course 
of time became the distinguishing character of the ages of faith. Ireland imbibed this feeling
at once, and thus she received  Christianity more thoroughly, at the very beginning, than did
any other Western nation.

The fact is--whatever may be thought or said--the Christian  religion, with all the loveliness
it imparts to this world when  rightly understood, though never destroying Nature, but always
keeping it in mind, and consecrating it to God, truly endowed,  consequently, with the promises
of earth as well as those of  heaven--the Christian religion is nevertheless fundamentally
supernatural, full of awe and mystery, heavenly and  incomprehensible, before being earthly
and the grateful object  of sense.

Without examining the various formularies which heresy compelled  an infallible Church to proclaim
and impose upon her children  from time to time, the Apostles' Creed alone transfers man at
once into regions supernatural, into heaven itself. The Trinity,  the Incarnation, the Redemption,
the mission of the Hold Ghost  on earth, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins,
and  the resurrection of the dead, are all mysteries necessitating a  revelation on the part
of God himself to make them known to and  believed by man. Do they not place man, even while
on earth, in  direct communication with heaven?

The firm believer in those mysteries is already a celestial  citizen by faith and hope. He
has acquired a new life, new  senses, as it were, new faculties of mind and will--all things,
evidently, above Nature.

And it is clear, from many passages of the New Testament, that  our Lord wished the lives of
his disciples to be wholly  penetrated with that supernatural essence. They were not to be
men of the earth, earthly, but citizens of another country which  is heavenly and eternal.
Hence the holiness and perfection  required of them--a holiness, according to Christ, like
that of  the celestial Father himself; hence contempt for the things of  this world, so strongly
recommended by our Lord; hence the  assurance that men are called to be sons of God, the eternal
Son  having become incarnate to acquire for us this glorious  privilege; hence, finally, that
frequent recommendation in the  Gospel to rely on God for the things of this life, and to look
above all for spiritual blessings.

That reliance is set forth in such terms, in the Sermon on the  Mount, that, taken literally,
man should neglect entirely his  temporal advantages, forget entirely Nature, and think only
of  grace, or rather, expect that the things of Nature would be  given us by our heavenly Father
"who knows that we need them."

Nature, consequently, assumes a new aspect in this system. It is  no longer a complexity of
temporal goods within reach of the  efforts of man, and which it rests with man alone to procure
for  himself. It is, indeed, a worldly treasure, belonging to God, as  all else, and which
the hand of God scatters profusely among his  creatures. God will not fail to grant to every
one what he needs, if he have faith. Thus God is always visible in Nature; and  redeemed man,
raised far above the beasts of the field, has  other eyes than those of the body, when he looks
around him on  this world.

Had Christianity been literally understood by those who first  received it, it would have completely
changed the moral, social,  and even natural aspect of the universe. The change produced  throughout
by the new religion was indeed remarkable, but not  what it would have been, if the supernatural
had taken complete  possession of human society. This it did in Ireland, and, it may  be said,
in Ireland alone. 

The correction of this habit will go far toward reforming an individual's
diet in every way.

Thorough mastication means masticating up to the point of involuntary swallowing. It does not mean
forcibly holding the food in the mouth, counting the chews, or otherwise
making a bore of eating.

It merely means giving up the habit of forcing food down, and applies
to all foods, even to liquid foods, which should be sipped.

[Sidenote: Evils of Insufficient Mastication]

The consequences and evils of insufficient mastication are many, and
may be enumerated as follows: Insufficient use of the teeth and jaws
(and hence dental decay as well as other and worse dental evils); insufficient
saliva mixed with the food (and hence imperfect digestion of the starchy substances);
insufficient subdivision of food by mastication (and hence slow digestion);
the failure of the taste nerves to telegraph ahead, as it were, to the
stomach and other digestive organs an intimation of the kind and amount
of digestive juices required (and hence indigestion); the overseasoning
of food to make it relishable even when bolted (and hence overeating
and irritation of the mucous lining); the excessive use of meat and
eggs and like foods, which can be eaten rapidly with relative impunity,
and the corresponding neglect of other foods, like bread, grains,
vegetables, and salads, which require more mastication (and hence
intestinal poisoning).

[Sidenote: Prolonged Relish of Food]

The habit of insufficient mastication is subtle, because it has become "second nature"
with most of us. To free ourselves of it we must first of all allow plenty
of time for our meals and rid our minds of the thought of hurry. A boy's school
in which the principal is endeavoring to fight the habit of food-bolting has wisely
ordained that no boy may leave the dining-room until a certain hour, even
if he has finished eating long before. In this way the boy soon learns
that there is nothing to be gained by fast eating, and, in fact, that the pleasantest
way of spending the meal-time is to prolong the relish of the food. It
would be well if all of us would adopt a similar rule for ourselves.
Mr. Gladstone did something of the sort and was noted for the slow mastication
of his food. Latterly Mr. Horace Fletcher set such a rule for himself,
and revived the interest of the public in the subject.

[Sidenote: The First Three Mouthfuls]

At first one must give some conscious attention
to his efforts to reform; but if one will merely attend carefully
to the first three mouthfuls of a meal, the slow pace can often be
established for the rest of the meal without further thought.

[Sidenote: Careful Tasting]

Slow eating is important not merely as a matter of mastication, but also
as a matter of taste and enjoyment. Food must have a pleasing taste and
flavor and then must be enjoyed in order to be most readily assimilated.

[Sidenote:
Increased Enjoyment]

There is a mistaken notion that the hygiene
of food means "giving up all the things that taste good."

While it is true that, in many cases, sacrifices have to be made,
the net result of reforming one's diet is not to diminish but to increase
the enjoyment of food.

In general, it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not relished. Experiments by Pavlov and
others have shown that the taste and enjoyment of food stimulate
the flow of digestive juices.

[Sidenote: Choosing Foods]

Finally, slow eating is a great aid in the proper choice of foods.

Some suggestions
have already been given as to the wise choice of foods, but no rules
can be formulated which will completely insure such a choice. Even
the wisest physiologist can not depend altogether on his knowledge
of food values, while, to the layman, the problem is so complicated
that his main reliance must be on his own instincts.

Animals depend exclusively on instinct except when under domestication.
Civilized man should not and can not altogether depend upon instinct,
but his food instincts are far more keen and correct if he obeys
the rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food.

[Sidenote: "Good" and "Bad" Foods]

In the choice of foods it is as difficult to distinguish absolutely between what are "good" and "bad"
foods as it is to classify human beings into "good" and "bad." All we can say is that some foods are
better than others, remembering that it is usually more important to
be satisfied, even if the foods are not "ideal," than to be unsatisfied
with what in the abstract seem "ideal" foods.

Among the best foods for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts (if
well masticated), milk, sour milk, and vegetables.

Among the worst foods are putrefactive cheeses, sweetbreads, liver,
kidneys, "high" game or poultry.

But a fastidious study of foods will find some faults as well as some virtues in almost any food. The
best way to help the ordinary man choose his foods is to advise him to use as
much as possible of the "better" and as little as possible of the "worse" without
attempting to draw a hard and fast line between the "good" and "bad."

[Sidenote: Salt, Pepper, Spices]

Salt, pepper, and hot condiments should be used very sparingly, if at all.

[Sidenote: Sugar and Candy]

A great cause of ill health is overuse of sugar in concentrated form,
candy, etc., especially by the sedentary. One reason why sugar has
a high food value is that it is readily utilized for combustion,
and if taken between meals greatly increases the calories and may
lead to overnourishment.

[Sidenote: Water with Meals]

There is, for normal people, no objection to drinking a moderate amount
of water at meals--say one or two glassfuls--provided it is not taken
when food is in the mouth and used for washing it down.

[Sidenote:
The Digestibility of So-called "Indigestible" Foods]

The science of dietetics will develop rapidly in the future, and in
a few years it will probably be possible to be more definite than we have
been here. At present there is much unknown, especially as to how far
our rules have to be modified for the particular individual.

Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account. Sometimes "What is one man's meat is another
man's poison." On the other hand, many have mistaken ideas as to their own idiosyncrasies. For
instance, many people think that nuts never agree with them, when
the trouble really is that they do not masticate them properly.

Many think peanuts indigestible, not realizing either the importance
of mastication or the importance of avoiding over-roasting. The ordinary
peanuts are over-roasted. Peanuts very slightly roasted and very thoroughly
masticated seldom disagree with one. Others believe that bananas
never agree with them, when the fact is they eat them too green.

The banana vender usually finds that the ignorant public buys his fruit
best when its color is an even yellow, and he puts aside for himself
the only bananas ripe and fit to eat, namely those which are mottled
with black.

[Sidenote: Avoidance of Fads]

Each individual must use his own intelligence and common sense, avoiding
so far as he can the mistake of following a "fad" and accepting a
theory without sufficient evidence; and the opposite mistake of accepting
as hygienic the customs about him simply because they are customs,
and thus mistaking for fads any conclusions of science which are discordant
with current custom.

[Sidenote: Necessity of Medical Examination]

It is a good idea to
consult a physician in regard to one's diet, and endeavor intelligently
to follow his advice and not insist on one's own diet, selected from
the standpoint of mere self-indulgence or custom.

Moreover, since many, without being aware of the fact, are affected
with Bright's disease, diabetes, etc., in their early stages, in which
dietetic precautions are especially necessary, it is well, even for
those who are apparently in good health, to be medically examined
as a preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet along the best lines.

CHAPTER III

POISONS

Section I--Constipation

If

the human body be likened to a steam-engine, its wastes correspond to the ashes.

[Sidenote:
Retention of Body Wastes]

The injury which comes from the retention of the body's waste products
is of the greatest importance.

The intestinal contents become dangerous by being too long retained,
as putrefying fecal matter contains poisons which are harmful to the
body.

Abnormal conditions of the intestines are largely responsible for the common headache
malady, and for a generally lowered resistance, resulting in colds and even more serious
ailments. Constipation is extremely prevalent, partly because our
diet usually lacks bulk or other needed constituents, but partly also because
we fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly, and often.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling matter.

It represents a constant and cumulative tax which often ends in very serious consequences.

[Sidenote: Water-Drinking]

Free water-drinking when the stomach is empty, especially before breakfast,
is beneficial in constipation. Free water-drinking at meals may prove constipating.
Excess of water should be avoided by the very feeble or those suffering from
heart trouble or dropsy.

[Sidenote: Laxative Foods]

The best regulators of the bowels are foods.

Foods should possess sufficient bulk to promote the action of the intestines
and should contain a due amount of laxative elements. Foods which are especially
laxative are prunes, figs, most fruits except bananas, fruit juices, all
fresh vegetables, especially greens of all sorts, wheat, bran, and the
whole grain cereals. Oils and fats are also laxative but can not be used in
sufficiently large quantities to produce very laxative effects without
producing loss of appetite.

Foods which have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled milk, fine wheat-flour
in bread, corn-starch, white of egg.

[Sidenote: Bran and Agar-Agar]

The use of wheat-bran in cereals, in bread, and even in vegetables
is a preventive of constipation, as is also the use of agar-agar,
a Japanese seaweed product.

This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a water-carrier and a sweep to the intestinal tract. It should
be taken without admixture with laxative drugs.

[Sidenote: Mineral Oils]

Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal lubricant to assist
the food to slip through the intestinal tube at the proper rate of
progress, provided the oil is first freed, by long-continued shaking with
water, from certain dangerous impurities.

Many refined preparations are on the market for use in constipation.
Underweight people should not use these oils unless properly prescribed
by a physician.

[Sidenote: Avoiding Drugs]

It is advisable, in general, to avoid
cathartics except under medical supervision, since certain drugs are
often very harmful when their use is long continued and the longer
they are used the more dependent on them the user becomes.

Laxative drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually.

[Sidenote: Enemas]

The occasional, but not habitual, use of an enema (with warm water followed
always by a second enema of cool water, to prevent relaxation) is
a temporary expedient.

[Sidenote: Massage of the Colon]

Massage of the abdomen, deep and thorough, with a creeping movement
of the ends of the fingers on the left side of the abdomen from above
downward, also promotes the process of defecation.

The normal man and woman should find no difficulty in having complete
movements regularly two or three times a day by merely living a reasonable
life, being careful especially to avoid overfatigue, to include sufficient
bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including, in particular,
breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.

[Sidenote: Low Seated Water Closets]

High-seated water closets, so often found in institutions, hotels and
private houses, often favor constipation, as they do not permit of
the proper physiological attitude in defecation.

They prevent
the individual from exercising abdominal pressure so essential for this
function. Such seats should be made much lower than they are, or the
feet should rest on a foot stool, in order to attain the proper attitude
for thorough emptying of the intestine.

[Sidenote: Number of Defecations]

Observations on the manlike apes show that they defecate three or four times a day. Few of the human
family have such ideal movements. Millions are conscious of some shortcoming in this regard,
and doubtless millions more suffer from some shortcomings of which they are not
conscious. Many believe they have free movements when actually they are
suffering from a sluggishness in the rectum and other parts of the
lower intestine.

A rectal examination often reveals unsuspected fecal residues.

[Sidenote: Establishing Proper Habits]

The natural instinct to defecate, like many other natural instincts,
is usually deadened by failure to exercise it.

Civilized life makes it inconvenient to follow this instinct as promptly as, for instance,
a horse does.

The impulse to go to stool, if neglected even five minutes, may disappear.
There are few health measures more simple and effective than restoring
the normal sensitiveness of this important impulse.

It may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water
enemas at night, following evacuation by paraffin oil injection,
may be needed. It would be an excellent rule to visit the closet immediately
after the noon and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do after the
morning meal, until the reflex is trained to act at those, the most
natural, times for its action.

Before leaving the subject of intestinal poisoning, we may here again
mention the importance of avoiding the poisoning which comes from
too much protein.

This poisoning is probably due largely to the decomposition of protein in the colon.

[Sidenote: Use of Sour Milk]

One proposed method for reducing this decomposition of protein is through the
use of sour milk. Lactic acid, the acid of sour milk, constitutes
a medium in which putrefactive germs do not thrive. Hence, if sufficient
sour-milk germs can be kept in the intestines to constantly manufacture
lactic acid, putrefaction will be reduced.

But, as Professor Rettger and others have shown, the mere swallowing
of a little sour milk or of sour-milk tablets is seldom sufficient.

The "good germs" swallowed die of starvation before they do much good. To
keep them alive and enable them to multiply, we must feed them. The free
use of milk and of milk sugar, a little raw starch, or partially cooked
cereal such as Scotch brose (oatmeal cooked only ten minutes) will
feed the germs.

[Sidenote: Evidences of Injury]

The odor and character of the stools
are indicative of the extent to which our diet is injuring us.

The odor is
less offensive if the diet is low in protein and thoroughly masticated.

Section II--Posture

One
of the simplest and most effective methods of avoiding self-poisoning
is by maintaining an erect posture. In an erect posture the abdominal
muscles tend to remain taut and to afford proper support or pressure
to the abdomen, including the great splanchnic circulation of large
blood-vessels. In an habitual slouching posture, the blood of the
abdomen tends to stagnate in the liver and the splanchnic circulation,
causing a feeling of despondency and mental confusion, headache, coldness
of the hands and feet, and chronic fatigue or neurasthenia, and often
constipation.

A slouching attitude is often the result of disease
or lack of vitality; but it is also a cause.

[Sidenote: The "Consumptive
Stoop"]

There is some reason to believe that "the consumptive stoop"
leads to tuberculosis partly through the lowering of resistance resulting
from the poisoning produced by a chronically relaxed abdomen.

Many
persons who have suffered for years from the above-named symptoms
have been relieved of them after a few weeks of correct posture, sometimes
reenforced by the artificial pressure of an abdominal supporter and
by special exercises to strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Lying face
downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses the blood out of
the congested splanchnic circulation.

[Sidenote: Breathing and Posture]

Breathing
exercises are also very useful for correcting the chronic evils of
bad posture. Exercises taken when lying on the back, by raising the
legs or head, strengthen the abdominal muscles. Slow, deep breathing,
through the nose, while lying on the back, with a weight on the abdomen,
such as a bag of sand--2 to 4 lbs.--is beneficial.

[Sidenote: Standing
and Walking]

In walking, the most common error is to slump, with
the shoulders rounded, the stomach thrust out, the head thrust forward,
chin up, and the arms hanging in front of the body. Who can say so, and
have true faith in the words of our Lord? Who can say so, and  truly call himself the follower
and companion of the saints who  have all believed so firmly in the constant action of God
in  this, the lesser part of his creation?

And this faith of the Irish in the power of the priesthood is  not a thing of yesterday. It
dates from their adoption of  Christianity, to continue, we hope, forever. It ought, therefore,
to be carefully distinguished from that love for every priest  of God which beats so ardently
in the hearts of them all, and  which was so strengthened by a long community of persecution
and  suffering.

In Ireland, as in every other Christian country, the priesthood  has always sided with the
people against their oppressors. Harwich--Consists of numerous villages all of which are attractive for summer
residence. It borders on Nantucket sound, has fine beaches, summer
hotels and cottages.

It has a community life in summer that is not surpassed anywhere.

Dennis--This town reaches entirely across the Cape and is split up into several villages. On the south side
it is bordered by Nantucket sound and on the north by Massachusetts
bay.

Has excellent summer hotels and good bathing and fishing.

Yarmouth--A town with quiet and shady streets, sloping shores and many
old residences.

One of the historic towns of the regions and presents a variety of attractions.

Barnstable--The county seat and largest town on the Cape. Attractions exceedingly varied. Noted for
the excellence of its clams.

Hyannis--Known as the Metropolis of the Cape. It is a center for summer
business.

Here are to be found excellent hotels, good stores and attractive tea rooms. Its main street is lined
with summer stores which are branches of New York and Boston's exclusive shops. Adjacent to it are
Hyannisport, a summer colony of fine residences. Centerville, Craigville, said to have the finest beach in New
England, Osterville (called the little Newport), and Cotuit, one
of the prettiest spots along the shores of Vineyard Sound.

This region is growing
more and more popular every year as the summer home of people of wealth and
refinement and presents all the attractions of resorts which cater to the diversion
of vacationists.

Falmouth--Falmouth is one of the larger villages on the Cape that draws a fine class of summer residents who
populate its fine hotels and summer homes.

It has varied scenery as it lies between Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound.
Its hotels are among the best and for attractiveness cannot be rivalled
anywhere. At Woods Hole, a part of Falmouth, is found another settlement
of exclusive character.

Falmouth has several other villages, all with fine hotels, golf links and boat harbors.

Sandwich--This town on the North side of the Cape is one of the old and original settlements and is on the
banks of the Cape Cod canal.

It has extensive woodlands dotted with well stocked ponds and is very
attractive to campers.

Bourne--Sagamore Beach, within the confines of the town of Bourne,
is on the north shore and is a pretentious cottage colony with two
excellent hotels.

Golf links
are adjacent and it has its own water system, community house and tennis
courts.

Cataumet and Pocasset are parts of Bourne which border on Buzzards Bay as well as Monument Beach
and the village of Buzzards Bay, itself. These are typical bayside resorts where boating, bathing, fishing
and golf are extensively indulged in. The town is intersected by the Cape Cod canal and the traffic
that flows through it passes in front of the summer colonies.

Martha's Vineyard--This is an off-shore island reached by a half-hour's
boat ride from Woods Hole.

A poet has said of it, "a little bit of Heaven dropped from out the sky one day" which aptly describes
it. Oak Bluffs, Edgartown. Vineyard Haven, Tisbury, Chilmark and Gay Head are its principal
villages. The island presents all the best features of an ideal summer vacation spot away from
the mainland, yet possessing all the essential features which go to make life comfortable. Its
hotels are many and excellent.

Nantucket--Further at sea, a two and a half hours' steamboat ride from
Woods Hole. Unique is a word that inadequately describes it. All over
the United States there are people who assert that there is no place
like Nantucket on the face of the globe.

It has a large summer population and tourists are adequately cared for.
It has the most regular climate of any place along the New England
coast, the temperature averaging 76 degrees during the summer months.

It is cooled by the Atlantic breezes.

Onset--This is a busy and thriving summer resort located in a beautiful
spot on upper Buzzards Bay.

It attracts many thousands of people during the summer months, who
come to spend a few weeks, days, or the season there. It is a cottage
colony supplemented by hotels and boarding houses that fit the purses
of all classes.

At some of these places, either on Cape Cod itself or the islands, every
person can find conditions suited to his or her individual taste.

WELLFLEET

EDWARD L. SMITH

Cape Cod has many fine distinctions that make it stand out from a commonplace
world and Wellfleet, as a town name, marks the Cape with a place-name known
all over the globe, but in no other locality than on the coast of
Barnstable Bay.

It is true that a misguided, homesick, and ill-advised denizen of the Cape, roaming the
arid, inland sand wastes of Nebraska, foisted the name of "Wellfleet" on his townsite. But as it has to date
remained "unwept, unhonored and unsung," so is it quite unknown to
sailors or to the sea, being about fifteen hundred miles from salt
water and an immeasurable distance from being appropriately named.

The origin of the name "Wellfleet" has always been a source of lively interest
to those who delight to delve to the roots of things historical. So many of our
early towns in Massachusetts were named by the Englishmen who settled them for English
towns familiar to them before they came oversea, that England is the natural
source from whence such a Saxon-English name as Wellfleet might come.

After
forty years of desultory search by the writer, the problem is yet
unsolved, though a good Yankee guess may not come very far out of
the way.

When that part of old Nawsett now Wellfleet was first settled it was
noted for the abundance of shell fish in the harbor and creeks, or
cricks as then called, and oysters were both especially plentiful
and choice.

In England, on the coast of Essex, and not far from the Thames, was
a stretch of oyster beds noted in the sixteenth century for their
production of oyster different from all other locations and revered
by epicures of those far-away times to be the luscious complement
necessary to their royal as well as more common plebeian feasts.

But we had best let old John Norden, who in 1594 published the results of
his life-long investigations into the history of Essex, tell the story,
which here is given verbatim as it appears in his work, "SPECTLI BRITTANNIE
PARS."

"Some part of the sea shore of Essex yealdeth the beste oysters in
England, which are called Walflete oysters: so called of a place in
the sea; but of which place in the sea it is, hath been some disputation.

And by the circumstances that I have observed thereof in my travail, I take it to be the shore which lieth betwene
St. Peter's chappell and Crowch the bredthe onlie of Denge hundred, through which upon the verie shore,
was erected a wall for the preservation of the lande. And thereof St.
Peter's on the wall.

And all the sea shore which beateth on the wall is called Walfleet.
And upon that shore on, and not elswher, but up in Crouche creeke, at the
ende of the wall, wher also is an ilande called commonlie and corruptlie
Walled (but I take it more trulie Wallflete) Island, wher and about
which ilande thys kinde of oyster abonndeth.

Ther is greate difference betwene theis oysters and others which lie ypon other shores, for this oyster, that
in London and els wher carieth the name of Walflete is a little full oyster with a verie greene
finn. And like vnto theis in quantetie and qualitie are none in this lande, thowgh farr bigger, and for
some mens diettes better."

From the above we may understand that Wellfleet oysters, which have
been celebrated in the English markets for between three and four hundred
years, might easily have led the settlers of Nawsett to believe that
at Billinsgate, they had a new Wallfleet Oyster bed. The fact that Wallfleet
oysters were marketed at Billinsgate, always the big fish market
of the Londoners, and that our Wellfleet was at first known as Billingsgate,
seems more than a mere coincidence.

The difference in spelling between the names "Wallfleet" and "Wellfleet"
is not material. Barnstable; town, county and bay, take their name from Barnstaple
on the coast of Devon. Norden, who was a highly educated man of University
breeding, and a polished writer, varied the spelling of some words even in
the same paragraph as witness "Crowch" and "Crouche," also "Ilande"
and "Island."

The diversified spellings of many of our common names is so marked as to be beyond comment except
to note their wide variety, due to attempts to follow the peculiar phonetics of untaught individuals.
In the one particular of "Well," who of us has not heard that word pronounced "W-a-a-l." when
used as an interjection? All of which makes it seem inescapable from the theory that Wellfleet on the Cape
is named after WALLFLEET on the coast of Essex, England.

A SQUEAK FOR A LIFE

1850

P.T. CHAMBERLAIN

"Whither bound?" said his wife to the captain one morn As he stood, oars and fish
lines in his hands, "Outside Sandy Neck, to try fisherman's luck For bluefish,
or mackerel or clams."

"Good luck and good-bye," said his fond loving wife, "The weather
looks pleasant and fair, You'll be back at the landing on the full
of the tide, And the children and I'll wait you there."

But when rounding Beach Point, with his good catch of fish, The captain was caught
in a squall, Black clouds, wind and thunder, lightning and hail, While
the rain in torrents did fall.

Quick he lowered his sail, but the wind snapped his mast, Away they
went over the side.

One gunwale under water, the other in air, Lifted high by the surging tide.

Then
the captain braced himself as with sinews of steel, A hand on each
gunwale places he, So he balanced and steadied his frail little craft,
Rolling there in the trough of the sea.

His wife from the window saw his peril in the storm. And away to
the landing she sped.

Tied her white linen apron to a handy boat book, And waved it high o'er her
head.

"Home, home for a lantern," to the laddie she cried. Home, home for the lantern
ran he, Returning, he swung it, back and forth, to and fro, That his
brave sailor father might see.

Soaked to the skin with the rain and the spray, His face as white
as the foam, "Must I drown in sight of my wife," he said, "Must I
die within reach of my home."

"For the sake of my helpless little ones, For the sake of my faithful
wife.

I pray Thee, O Lord, to forgive all my sins, Give me this one chance
for my life."

Still darker grew the storm, black and green looked the waves, The
shore line to the captain grew dim, But he knew by the lantern and
the waving white flag, Where his loved ones were watching for him.

Three hours he struggled with the full flooding tide. Now the Channel
Rock danger is o'er.

One more stretch of water, some more dangerous rocks, Then the gleaming surf, then the shore.

"A
rope, bring a rope," the kind neighbors shout, "A rope now the captain
will save."

They
coiled a stout rope and with powerful hand, Flung it out o'er the
turbulent wave.

Joy! Joy! he is saved! He clutches the rope, With cold, bruised and stiffening
hand, A long pull, a strong' pull, and more dead than alive, Through
the surf they draw him to land.

"Home, home for hot coffee," to the lassie she cried, Home, home for hot
coffee, went she, Returning, brought coffee, dry clothing, warm food,
A fleet-footed lassie was she.

But the kid, boylike, would investigate the boat, And so he climbed
over its side.

"Half full of water," he said, "not a bluefish or clam, Must have all floated out on the tide."

With boat hook and lantern, the kids travelled home, "Little sister,
now what do you think, Hadn't we said, 'Now I lay me,' to the Lord
every night?

Would He let Pa and our dory sink?"

"No, no," said the lassie, "No, no, that ain't so, Naughty children
very often are we, 'Tis 'cause Ma puts a Bible in Pa's chest of clothes
Every time that he goes 'way to sea."

Gratitude profound, thanksgiving and joy Filled the heart of the loving
wife, But the captain, a man of few words, only said, "Yes, a pretty
narrow squeak for a life."

RICHES

C.A. COTTRELL

If I can leave behind me, here and there A friend or two to say when I am gone That I have helped
to make their pathways fair, Had brought them smiles when they were
bowed with care, The riches of this world I'll carry on. If only three
or four shall pause to say When I have passed beyond this earthly
sphere, That I brought gladness to them on a day When bitterness was
theirs, I'll take away More riches than a billionaire leaves here.

CAPE TROUT STREAMS

The chronic trout fisherman is by nature secretive. He is loath to tell
where he made his big catches and shrouds the location of the streams
in mystery.

If pinned down closely he will sometimes indicate a general locality
but it is hard to get him to be more definite.

The reason for this is obvious. He is zealous of his rights as a
"discoverer" and feels that he is not obliged to share his knowledge
with anybody.

He won't take the risk of having the stream "fished out" by others than himself. The secrets of the location
of gold strikes in the days of '49 were no more closely kept.

When the 15th of April comes around each year there are certain wise
men who proceed to load up their automobiles with their fishing tackle
and in the early morning turn Capeward.

They have experiences of previous years to guide them and know certain
brooks and pools where the speckled beauties await them.

The wise ones know just where to throw their lines and the kind of bait that
is sure to lure the denizens of that particular spot. For fishing is a
science, as well as a sport requiring skill and judgment. The born fisherman
seems to have an uncanny sense of piscatorial thoughts and almost
instinctively can determine just the right thing to do and the right time to do
it, while the mere amateur fisherman who only wets a line occasionally
guesses whether to use a fly or a worm.

Yes, the Cape is a noted
Mecca for trout fishermen, at least certain parts of the Cape. Within
the confines of Bourne, Mashpee, Falmouth and Barnstable are many
likely trout brooks and from them are annually taken many catches
that gladden the hearts of the sportsmen.

These brooks run into the
ponds and the sea, they run through marshes and woods. They abound
in trout, of the square-tail variety, and those who know them keep
their secrets closely.

Sometimes a fisherman exhibits a basket of
fish that astonishes all beholders. Big speckled beauties they are
and in quantity sufficient to satisfy any one.

Some of the biggest
of them may be "salters," fish caught near the mouths of the brooks
that run into the sea and weighing all the way from a pound to two
pounds or more. There is authentic information that trout weighing
more than two and a half pounds have been taken from these Cape Cod
streams.

Unfortunately for the general public many of the brooks
are "posted," but there are a lot of fishermen that "don't believe
in signs" and when they see a sign of "no fishing here" they are apt
to challenge the statement and some of them aver that there is very
good fishing there indeed.

It is a matter of history that the Pilgrims
found trout in the Cape Cod streams. It is a matter of fact that many
of the brooks have been stocked by private individuals and by the
state. Every year the fish in these stocked brooks increase in size
and the sophisticated fishermen keep track of them from year to year.
The state keeps a record of the stocking of streams and that information
can be obtained and made use of.

At Sandwich the state maintains
a trout hatchery where millions of eggs are secured. These eggs develop
into fry and fingerlings and they are distributed throughout the state,
the Cape getting its full share.

A visit to this hatchery is interesting.
It demonstrates how the state strives to increase sport for its residents.
Science and experience are exercised and the result is that the fishing
advantages of the state are steadily increasing.

One of the chief
drawbacks of having well stocked streams is the unsportsmanlike conduct
of many fishermen. To them a trout is a trout regardless of its size
and hundreds of small fish are taken from the streams that should
be put back and allowed to grow for another year.

Nor was it only in the erection of those edifices that a cheerful impulse, which overlooked
or overcame all difficulties, was  displayed. The monastic life was not all the time a life
of  penance and gloomy austerity, but of active work also and  overflowing feeling, of true
poetry and enthusiastic exultation.  We read in the fragments we still possess how, on the
arid rock  of Iona, Columba remembered his former residence at Derry, with  its woods of oaks
and the pure waters of its loughs. In all the  lives of Irish saints we read of the deep attachment
they always  preserved for their country, relatives, and friends; what they  did and were ready
to do for them. And though all this was at  bottom but a natural feeling, the extent to which
it was carried  will make us better acquainted with the Irish character, and  explain more
clearly that extraordinary expansion of soul which,  in the domains of the supernatural, surpassed
every thing  witnessed elsewhere.

"In a monastery two brothers had lived from childhood. The elder  died, and while he was dying
the other was laboring in the  forest. When he came back, he saw the brethren opening a grave
in the cemetery, and thus he learned that his brother was dead.  He hastened to the spot where
the Abbot Fintan, with some of his  monks, were chanting psalms around the corpse, and asked
him the  favor of dying with his brother, and entering with him into the  heavenly kingdom.
'Thy brother is already in heaven,' replied  Fintan, 'and you cannot enter together unless
he rise again.'  Then he knelt in prayer, the angels who had received the holy  soul restored
it, and the dead man, rising in his bier, called  his brother: 'Come,' said he, 'but come quickly;
the angels  await us.' At the same time he made room beside him, and both,  lying down, slept
together in death, and ascended together to  the kingdom of God."

This anecdote may tend better than any thing else to show us how  Nature and grace were united
in the Irish soul, to warm it,  purify it, exalt it above ordinary feelings and earthly passions,
and keep it constantly in a state of energy and vitality  unknown to other peoples. For, in
what page of the  ecclesiastical history of other nations do we read of things  such as these?

With regard to their country, also, grace came to the aid of  Nature; the supernatural was,
therefore, seldom absent from the  natural in their minds, and something of this double union
has,  remained in them in every sense, and has, no doubt, contributed  to render their nationality
imperishable in spite of persecution. How ardent and pure in the heart of Columba was the love
of  Ireland, from which he was a voluntary exile! Patrick, also,  though not native born, yielded
to none in that sacred feeling;  one of the three things he sought of God on dying was, that
Erin  should not "remain forever under a foreign yoke:" Kieran offered  the same prayer, and
their reason for thus praying was that she  was the "island of saints," destined to help out
the salvation  of many.

Religion has been invariably connected with that acute sentiment  ever present in the minds
of Irishmen for their country; and it  is, doubtless, that holy and supernatural feeling which
has  preserved a country which enemies strove so strenuously to wrest  from them.

But it was not love of country alone, of relatives and friends,  which enkindled in their hearts
a spirit of enthusiasm; their  whole monastic life was one of high-spirited devotedness, and
energy, and action, more than human.

We see them laboring in and around their monastic hive. How they  pray and chant the divine
office; how they study and expound the  holy doctrine to their pupils; how they are ever travelling,
walking in procession by hundreds and by thousands through the  island, the interior spirit
not allowing them to stand still.  There are so many pilgrimages to perform, so many shrines
to  venerate, so many works of brotherly love to undertake. Other  monks in other countries,
indeed, did the same, but seldom with  such universal ardor. The whole island, as we said,
is one  church. On all sides you may meet bishops, and priests, and  monks, bearing revered
relics, or proceeding to found a new  convent, plant another sacred edifice, or establish a
house for  the needy. The people on the way fall in and follow their  footsteps, sharers of
the burning enthusiasm. Many-how many!- were thus attracted to this mode of life, wherein there
was  scarce aught earthly, but all breathing holiness and heavenly  grace!

Thus the island was from the beginning a holy island. But zeal  for God in their own country
alone not being enough for their  ardor, those men of God were early moved by the impulse of
going  abroad to spread the faith. Volumes might be written of their  apostleship among barbarous
tribes; we have room only for a few  words.

They first went to the islands north of them, to the Hebrides,  the Faroe Isles, and even Iceland,
which they colonized before  the Norwegian pirates landed there. Then they evangelized  Scotland
and the north of England; and, starting from  Lindisfarne, they completed the work of the conversion
of the  Anglo-Saxons, which was begun by St. Augustin and his monks in  the south.

Finally, the whole continent of Western Europe offered itself to  their zeal, and at once they
were ready to enter fully and  unreservedly into the current of new ideas and energies which
at  that time began to renew the face of that portion of the world  overspread by barbarians
from Germany. Under the Merovingian  kings in France, and later on, under the Carlovingian
dynasty,  they became celebrated in the east of France, on the banks of  the Rhine, even in
the north through Germany, in the heart of  Switzerland, and the north of Italy. This is not
the place to  attempt even a sketch of their missionary labors, now known to  all the students
of the history of those times. But we may here  mention that at that time the Irish monarchs
and rulers became  acquainted with continental dynasties and affairs through the  necessary
intercourse held by the Irish bishops and monks with  Rome, the centre of Catholicity. Thus
we see that Malachi II  corresponded with Charles the Bald, with a view of making a  pilgrimage
to Rome.

We learn from the yellow-book of Lecain that Conall, son of  Coelmuine, brought from Rome the
law of Sunday, such as was  afterward practised in Ireland.

Over and above the Irish missionaries who kept up a constant  correspondence from the Continent
of Europe with their native land, it is known that many in those early ages went on pilgrimages
to Rome; among others, St. Degan, St. Kilian, the  apostle of Franconia; St. Sedulius the younger,
who assisted at  a Roman council in 721, and was sent by the Pope on a mission to  Spain; St.
Donatus, afterward Bishop of Fiesole, and his  disciple, Andrew. St. Cathald went from Rome
to Jerusalem, and  on his return was made Bishop of Tarento.  Donough, son of Brian  Boru,
went to Rome in 1063, carrying, it is said, the crown of  his father, and there died.

It has been calculated that the ancient Irish monks held from  the sixth to the ninth century
thirteen monasteries in Scotland,  seven in France, twelve in Armoric Gaul, seven in Lotharingia,
eleven in Burgundy, nine in Belgium, ten in Alsatia, sixteen in  Bavaria, fifteen in Rhaetia,
Helvetia, and Suevia, besides  several in Thuringia and on the left bank of the Rhine.  Ireland
was then not only included in, but at the head of, the European  movement; and yet that forms
a period in her annals which as yet  has scarcely been studied.

The religious zeal which was then so manifest in the island  itself burned likewise among many
Continental nations, and  lasted from the introduction of Christianity to the Danish  invasion.
What contributed chiefly to make that ardor lasting  was, that every thing connected with religion
made a part even of their exterior life. Grace had taken entire possession of  the national
soul. This world was looked upon as a shadow,  beautiful only in reflecting something of the
beauty of heaven. 

This question is: "In your opinion are the Negro colleges meeting the needs of definite religious
training?" Every one's answer except one might be summarized thus: Some good has been accomplished but we
are far from the real goal. We need reconstruction and a new impetus.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an essential
in the process of religious education does seem to indicate that they
regard self activity. Wherever the social service was very scant the
one reporting felt it his duty to give an apology for the actual conditions
and express a hope of better results in the future. This showed that they felt it the
vital factor in the progressive socialization of the individuals.
The place of prominence given to worship, to religious services on Sunday
and in the week is either an index to their conception concerning
the value of worship or else an index of their habit toward orthodoxy.

Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former for the larger number of these
institutions.

SOME CURRENT CONCEPTIONS OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN RELATION TO GENERAL
EDUCATION

Religious education is considered a part of general education
and is included under that genus.

What is general education? For a long time education was defined in
terms of intellect, but that ground is no longer tenable. Spencer said:
"Education is the preparation for complete living." Modern educators reject
this as an inadequate statement of education. Education does not
merely prepare for something in the future.

It endeavors to fill one full of life, and human experience during the educative
process. Education must be expressed in social terms. James describes
education as the organization of acquired habits of conduct and tendencies
to behavior. This emphasizes the psychological side.

It was thought that the aim of education could be expressed in purely
individual terms.

It was
said to be the harmonious development of all the powers of the individual.
Dewey attacks this definition showing that there is no criterion
for telling what is meant by the terms used.

There is nothing in the make-up of human beings, taken in any isolated way which
 furnishes controlling ends and serves to mark out powers.
Unless we have the aim supplied by social life we have only the old
faculty psychology to furnish us with ideas of powers in general or the
specific powers.[3] Dewey defines education as the regulation of the
process of coining to share in the social consciousness. And the majority
of educators use social terms to define education. Soares has this conception
in mind when he gives the following definition of education. "Education
is a scientifically directed process of developing progressive socialized
personality." But to achieve personality one must achieve sympathy and sympathy
is one of the concerns of religion. Hence all true education involves religion.

What
is religion? Wright in the American Journal of Theology, Volume XVI, page 385, quotes
Leuba as defining religion as a belief in a psychic superhuman power.
Wright has objections to this definition on the ground of its narrowness.
He attempts to add breadth to the definition in: "Religion is the
endeavor to secure the conservation of socially recognized values,
through specific actions that are believed to evoke some agency different
from the ordinary ego of the individual or from other merely human
beings, and that imply a feeling of dependence upon this agency.

Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment."
This is not synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies.
Creeds and ceremonies have to do with ecclesiasticism not with religion per
se. Creeds are developments of theology and dogma is an outgrowth
of religion and not religion.

Modes of worship developed into rites and ceremonies are ecclesiastical means
of fostering the religious spirit but not religion. Religion is not a
feeling to be imposed from without. Religion is a life and a life-long process.
"The religious life is the response the heart of man makes to God, as the heart
of the universe. The religious person is one who is conscious of his divinity because
of his kinship with the universe through God, and who because of this consciousness
seeks fellowship with God and the Godly."

Having arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion
which are given by some of the most representative students of the
subjects, let us ascertain some conceptions of religious education.

As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded as a separate entity. It is
a part of the process of efficient education. The human organism is a unit. Life is a whole
and connects physical, mental and religious phases. The whole personality
is the object for consideration for the educator. The emphasis in education
varies from physical to mental and from mental to religious, or social.

When the emphasis is placed on the social or religious phase the procedure
may be properly called religious education.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion. He says: "Religious education is the process by which
the individual in response to a controlled environment, achieves a progressive, conscious social[4] order
based on regard for the worth and destiny of every individual." Professor Peabody states the matter in the following
words:[5] "Religious education is the drawing out of the religious
nature, the clarifying and strengthening of religious ideals, the
enriching and rationalizing of the sense of God.... The end of religious
education is service...."

Dewey's idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions of religious education. The standard
of each is found in the functional relationship of each to society. Modes of expression and emphasis may
vary but the ideals for both are the same. Dr. Haslett[7] has given an
unique representation of this conception. "Religious education," says he,
"is closely related to secular education and is largely dependent upon it. The
fundamental laws and principles of psychology and of education require
to be recognized as central." Professor Coe[8] reminds us, however,
that "religious education is not and cannot be a mere application of any generalities
in which the university departments of education deal. It is not a mere
particular that gets its meaning or finds its test in the general."

Religious education deals with original data and with specific problems that
rarely appear in the instruction that is called 'general' and that grow out
of the specific nature of our educational purpose. In the analysis of these
data and in the determination of the method, we can and must use
matter contained in general courses of education.

But the field of study of religious education is not exhausted there, but is so specific and yet so broad
as properly to constitute a recognized branch of educational practice. The religious purpose in religious
education yields the point of view and the principles of classification that are important for religious
educators.

The conceptions of religious education just passed in review warrant
certain deductions.

Any institution which meets adequately the requirements of religious education must have genuinely religious
men and women in the entire teaching and official force. Such persons will determine the atmosphere and spirit
of the institution. These teachers should have clear conceptions of the ideals of religious education.
The blind cannot lead the blind. The students must be trained along three
fundamental lines, of the religious life. First, he must have some of
the intellectual value of religion. He must have social knowledge. He must have
the opportunity of expressing the devotional attitude in worship. He must have
the outlet of religious energy in social service. The duty of the college
will be far from discharged unless it makes provision for laboratory religion
where there is a working place for each member. Religion is a life and the
college should be a society where this life may be lived in its fullest
extent, encouraging practical altruism and giving the protection which
an ideal society affords against demoralization.

EVOLUTION OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

The problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real. On the basis of the investigation we are able to
point out some prominent phases of the problem. The first element
of this problem is the teacher.

There are in Negro colleges, 22 teachers of religious education who have
had no professional training for the work. This means that one-fourth of the
entire corp of teachers of religion in these institutions are without
the prestige, at least, of even the semblance of professional training.
Two main causes account for this.

These institutions have not those who are professionally trained on their faculties and they lack funds
to procure the service of such persons. In the next place they think
it is not necessary.

One observation here is important. These services seem to be significant in proportion to the participation
in them by the students themselves. The Sunday School and the Young People's
meetings are the most popular services for the students. They do the
things in which they have a volitional interest. We cannot thrust
our religious experiences upon the students from without.

They must achieve
their own religious experience in contact with the environment in which
they live. The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow a
program which was effective for those who lived in another civilization.

The traditional Negro prayer meeting does not function religiously in the life of
the Negro college student.

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard
to religious services.

Where should that stop? Many are beginning to think that the religious
value of the services is often nullified by the compulsory attendance.

There
are many conscientious objectors among the students who think the
removal of compulsion would be conducive to better religious development.

But the likelihood of some swinging from one extreme to the other is very great. It is still a problem
left for the religious educators in the colleges to solve. The solution must result in the conservation
of the good found in the compulsory system and the good to be found in freedom of choice.

Expressional activities are increasing in Negro colleges but with few exceptions these are inadequate in scope
and number. It is true that not enough students are able to share
in the social service projects. This is really one of, if not the most
important factors in religious education.

Men
gain religious power by acting out their beliefs, allowing their
convictions to flow out into service.

There is an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies in Negro
colleges. Frequently we find several organizations attempting to do
the same thing and each makes a miserable failure in the attempt. More
than that, this lack of coordination and correlation results in duplications
which surely mean wasted energy and non-effectiveness.

If all of the religious agencies were supervised in such a way that each would know his specific task and
would not overlap that of other agencies, much more effective work would be the result.

There are signs of hope in the religious education of these Negro colleges.
The almost unanimous recognition of the religious motive in efficient
education by the educators and the manifest consciousness of needs
of better religious education have been mentioned.

There are others. An increasing number of trained teachers from Northern, Eastern
and Western colleges and universities is evident. These men and women
are coming from the institutions where the points of view and training
represented in the previous chapter are found.

The summer schools of the various colleges and universities in the North, East and West are offering many
of these modern religious education courses and larger numbers of the teachers of religious education
are availing themselves of the opportunities. Much literature of religious education published recently
is finding its way to these schools, the most notable of which is the Religious
Education Magazine.

The following sources were used in the preparation of this dissertation:
American Missionary Association Report, 1916; Baptist Missionary Society
(Woman's) Reports, 1910-1916; Catalogues--Negro Colleges, 1916-1917;
W. E.B. DuBois, Morals and Manners Among Negro Americans, Atlanta
University Publications, No. 18; Journal of the Proceedings of the
A. M. E. Church (General Conference), 1916; Journal of the Proceedings
of the Methodist Episcopal Church (General Conference), 1916; Thomas
J. Jones, Negro Education, United States Bureau of Education, Bulletins
38 and 39, 1916; Thomas J. Jones, Recent Movements in Negro Education,
United States Bureau of Education, 1912, Vol.

I; Questionnaires, from Negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau of
Education Investigations, Education in the South, Bulletin 30, 1933;
Monroe N. Work, Negro Year Book, 1914, 1915, 1916; Young Men's Christian
Association, Report of the International Committee, May 12, 1916;
Year Book, 1915-1916.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W. S. Athearn,
Religion in the Curriculum-Religious Education; R. E. Bolton, Principles
of Education; H. F. Cope, The Efficient Layman; H. F. Cope, Fifteen
Years of the Religious Education Association, The American Journal
of Theology, July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee Report, Standardization of
Biblical Courses, Rel. Educ. August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, The Media
of Religious Impression in College, N. E. A. 1914, p. 494 ff; John
Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education, Moral Principles in
Education; T. S. O. Evans, The University Young Men's Christian Association
as a Training School for Religious Leaders, Rel.

Educ. 1908; H. F. Fowler, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious
Education for Colleges, Rel. Educ. 1915, p. 355 ff; E. N. Hardy, The Churches
and The Educated Man; S. B. Haslett, Pedagogical Bible School, Parts I and
II; International Sunday School Association, Organized Work in America,
Vol.

XIII; C. F. Kent, Training the College Teacher, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education,
Vol. I, p. 370; E. C. Moore, What is Education; A. Morgan, Education
and Social Progress; F. G. Peabody, The Religious Education of an American
Child, Rel. Educ. 1915, p. 107; I. J. Peritz, The Contents of an Ideal
Curriculum of Religious Instruction, Rel. Educ. Vol.

X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed, The Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913,
p. 66; R. Rhees, Evangelisation of Education, Biblical World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh,
The Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 3; I. T. Wood,
The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious Instruction for Colleges, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p.
332; The Survey of Progress in Religious and Moral Education, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 114.

[2] None of these does all of the things described, but all of them do at least
some one of them.

[3] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[4] Ideals in Religious Education, R.E.A., June, 1917, p. 185.

[5] Ibid., p. 94.

[6] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[7] Pedagogical Bible School, page 207.

[8] R. E. A., April 19, 1917, page 123.

THE AFTERMATH OF NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION[1]

Nat Turner was a man below the ordinary stature, though strong and active. He
was of unmixed African lineage, with the true Negro face, every feature
of which was strongly marked. He was not a preacher, as was generally
believed, though a man of deep religious and spiritual nature, and
seemed inspired for the performance of some extraordinary work.

He was austere in life
and manner, not given to society, but devoted his spare moments to introspection and consecration.
He thought often of what he had heard said of him as to the great work
he was to perform. He eventually became seized with this idea as a frenzy. To use
his own language he saw many visions.

Receiving, as he says, further directions from the Holy Spirit, he communicated
his designs to four of his most confidential friends. July 4, 1831,
the anniversary of American Independence, was the day on which the
work of death was to have been begun.

Nat Turner hesitated and allowed the time to pass by, when, the mysterious
signs reappearing, he determined to begin at once the bloody work. Sunday,
August 21, he met those who had pledged their cooperation and support.
They were Hark Travis, Henry Porter, Samuel Francis, Nelson Williams,
Will Francis and Jack Reese, with Nat Turner making the seventh.

They worked out their plans while they ate in the lonely woods of Southampton
their feast of consecration, remaining at the feast until long after
midnight.

The massacre was begun at the house of Joseph Travis, the man to whom Nat Turner then belonged. Armed
with a hatchet Turner entered his master's chamber, the door having been broken open with the
axe, and aimed the first blow of death. The hatchet glanced harmless from
the head of the would-be victim and the first fatal blow was given by Will
Francis, the one of the party who had got into the plot without Nat Turner's
suggestion. All of his master's household, five in number, soon perished.[4]

The
insurgents procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few rounds
of ammunition.

At the barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was drilled and maneuvered. Nat Turner himself assumed
the title of General Cargill with a stipend of ten dollars a day. Henry
Porter, the paymaster, was to receive five dollars a day, and each private one
dollar. Thence they marched from plantation to plantation until by Monday
morning the party numbered fifteen with nine mounted. Before nine o'clock
the force had increased to forty and the insurgents had covered an
extent of territory two or three miles distant from the first point
of attack, sweeping everything before them.

Nat Turner generally took his station in the rear, with fifteen or twenty of the best armed
and reliable men at the front, who generally approached the houses
as fast as their horses could run for the double purpose of preventing
escapes and striking terror.

His force continued to increase until they numbered sixty, all armed
with guns, axes, swords, and clubs, and mounted.

This line of attack was kept up until late Monday afternoon, when
they reached a point, about three miles distant from Jerusalem, the
county seat, where Nat Turner reluctantly yielded to a halt while
some of his forces went in search of reenforcements.

He was eager to push on to the county seat as speedily as possible
and capture it.

This delay proved the turning point in the enterprise.

Impatient at the delay of his men who had turned aside, Turner started
to the mansion house whither they had gone and on their return to the
wood found a party of white men who had pursued the bloody path of
the insurrectionists and disposed of the guard of eight men whom Turner
had left at the roadside.

The white men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain
Alexander P. Peete.

They had been directed to reserve their fire until within thirty
paces, but one of their number fired on the insurgents when within
about one hundred yards.

Half of the whites beat a precipitate retreat when Nat Turner ordered
his men to fire and rush on them.

The few remaining white men stood their ground until Turner approached
within fifty yards, when they too followed the example of their comrades,
fired and retreated with several wounded.

Turner pursued and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter was only prevented by the timely arrival
of a party of whites approaching in another direction from Jerusalem.

Being
baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to cross the Nottaway
river at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem where he expected
to procure additional arms and ammunition from the rear.

After trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to Jerusalem,
the insurgents turned back toward his rendezvous and reached Major
Thomas Ridley's, where forty assembled.

He placed out sentinels and lay down to sleep, but there was to be no sleep that night. An attack on his
forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which ensued left him with
one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his forces, was proceeding
in his effort to rally new adherents when the firing of a gun by Hark
was the signal for a fire in ambush and a retreat followed.

After this Turner never saw many of his men any more. They had killed fifty-five whites but the tide
had turned. Turner concealed himself in the woods but was not dismayed, for by messenger he directed
his forces to rally at the point from which on the previous Sunday they had started out on their
bloody work; but the discovery of white men riding around the place
as though they were looking for some one in hiding convinced him that
he had been betrayed.

A reign of terror followed in Virginia.[5] Labor was paralyzed, plantations
abandoned, women and children were driven from home and crowded into
nooks and corners.

The sufferings of many of these refugees who spent night after night in the woods were intense. Retaliation
began. In a little more than one day 120 Negroes were killed. The
newspapers of the times contained from day to day indignant protests
against the cruelties perpetrated. One individual boasted that he himself
had killed between ten and fifteen Negroes. Volunteer whites rode
in all directions visiting plantations.

Negroes were tortured to death,
burned, maimed and subjected to nameless atrocities. Slaves who were
distrusted were pointed out and if they endeavored to escape, they
were ruthlessly shot down.[6]

A few individual instances will show the nature and extent of this vengeance. There occurred other instances which strikingly
remind one of scenes before the Civil War and during reconstruction. He took passage in the stage coach, but the vehicle
was intercepted. He then fled to a friend's home but the house was broken open and he was dragged
forth. The civil authorities informed of the affair refused to interfere. The Governor of the
commonwealth quickly called into service whatever forces were at his
command. The lack of adequate munitions of war being apparent, Commodore
Warrington, in command of the Navy Yard in Gosport, was induced to
distribute a portion of the public arms under his control. For this purpose
the government ordered detachments of the Light Infantry from the seventh
and fifty-fourth Regiments and from the fourth Regiment of cavalry and
also from the fourth Light Artillery to take the field under Brigadier General
Eppes. Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were also called
into service under General William H. Brodnax and continued in the
field until the danger had passed.

Further aid was afforded by Commodore Eliott of the United States Navy
by order of whom a detachment of sailors from the Natchez was secured
and assistance also from Colonel House, the commanding officer at
Fortress Monroe, who promptly detached a part of his force to take
the field under Lieutenant Colonel Worth.[10] The revolt was subdued,
however, before these troops could be placed in action and about all
they accomplished thereafter was the terrifying of Negroes who had
taken no part in the insurrection and the immolation of others who
were suspected.

Sixty-one white persons were killed.

We have here the naked truth, and no meaning whatever could be  attached to such ceremonies
other than that of the rankest  idolatry. To complete the picture, it is proper to state that
Thor, Odin, and Frigga, were frightful idols, as represented in  the Upsala temple, and the
small statues carried by the  Scandinavian sailors on their expeditions and set in the place
of honor on board their ships, were but diminutive copies of the  hideous originals. It is
known, moreover, that Odin had existed  as a leader of some of their migrations, so that their
idolatry  resolved itself into hero-worship.

Having spoken of their gods, we have only a word to add on their  belief in a future state,
for every one is acquainted with their  brutal and shocking Walhalla. Yet, such as it was,
admittance to  its halls could only be aspired to by the warriors and heroes,  the great among
them; the common herd was not deemed worthy of  immortality. Thus aristocratic pride showed
itself at the very  bottom of their religion.

Of their social state, their government, we know little. They  lived under a kind of rude monarchy,
subject often to election,  when they chose the most savage and the bravest for their ruler.
But blood-relationship had little or nothing to do with their  system, so different from that
of the Celts. The sons of a  chieftain could never form a sept, but at his death the eldest
replaced him; the younger brothers, deprived of their titles and  goods, were forced to separate
and acquire a title to rank and  honor by piracy; and that right of primogeniture, which was
the  primary cause of their sea invasions, stamped the feudal system  with one of its chief
characteristics, a system which probably  originated with them. Some, however, entertain a
contrary  opinion, and suppose that at the death of the father his  children shared his inheritance
equally.

Of their moral habits we may best judge by their religion. All  we know of their history seems
to prove that with them might was  right, and outlawry the only penalty of their laws.

A man guilty of murder was compelled to quit the country, unless  his superior daring and the
number of his friends and followers  enabled him, by more atrocious and wholesale murders,
still to  become a great chieftain and even aspire to supreme power. Macaroni, Rice, Polenta, and
Other Italian Pastes{*}

* Italian pastes of the best quality can be obtained at Cosenza's,
Wigmore Street, NW. For the following dishes, tagliarelle and spaghetti
are recommended.

No. 182. Macaroni with Tomatoes

Ingredients: Macaroni, tomatoes, butter, onion, basil, pepper, salt.

Fry half an onion slightly in butter, and as soon as it is coloured
add a puree of two big cooked tomatoes.

Then boil quarter of a pound of macaroni separately, drain it and put
it in a deep fireproof dish, add the tomato puree and three tablespoonsful
of grated Parmesan and Cheddar mixed, and cook gently for a quarter
of an hour before serving. This dish may be made with vermicelli,
spaghetti, or any other Italian paste. They thought that France
was crushed, did they? Not a bit of it! At sight of the Eagle a national
army sprang up, and we all marched to Waterloo. There the Guard perished, as
if stricken down at a single blow. Napoleon, in despair, threw himself
three times, at the head of his troops, on the enemy's cannon, without being
able to find death. The battle was lost.

That evening the Emperor called his old soldiers together, and, on
the field wet with our blood, burned his eagles and his flags. 

If you would be able to say that you have in your service Sir Gervas Jerome, knight banneret,
and sole owner of Beacham Ford Park, with a rent-roll of four thousand
good pounds a year, he is now up for sale, and will be knocked down
to the bidder who pleases him best. A dispatch from
the Headquarters Staff of the Commander in Chief says:

At the beginning of March, (Old Style,) in the principal chain of
the Carpathians, we only held the region of the Dukla Pass, where
our lines formed an exterior angle.

