The Kaiser's Hatred of the United
         States.
      2. The Kaiser's Character Revealed
         in His Choosing the Sultan for His
         friend.
      3. Pershing's Charges versus the
         Kaiser.
      4. Who Taught the Kaiser That a
         Treaty Is a Scrap of Paper?
      5. The Plot of the Kaiser.

 II. THE JUDAS AMONG NATIONS                     31
      1. The Original Plot of the Members
         of the Potsdam Gang.
      2. The Berlin Schemers and Their
         Plot.
      3. German Superiority a Myth That
         Has Exploded.
      4. German Intrigues.
      5. German Burglars Loaded with Loot
         Are the More Easily Captured.
      6. Germans Who Hide Behind the
         Screen.
      7. Must German Men Be Exterminated?

 III. THE BLACK SOUL OF THE HUN                  60
      1. German Barbarism Not Barbarism
         to the German.
      2. The German "Science of Lying."
      3. The Malignity of the German Spies.
      4. The Cancer in the Body-Politic of
         Germany.
      5. Polygamy and the Collapse of the
         Family in Germany.
      6. The Red-Hot Swords in Sister
         Julie's Eyes.
      7. The Hidden Dynamite: The
         Hun's Destruction of Cathedrals.
      8. The German Sniper Who Hid Behind
         the Crucifix.
      9. The Ruined Studio.
     10. Was This Murder Justified?

 IV. IN FRANCE THE IMMORTAL!                     98
      1. The Glory of the French Soldier's
         Heroism.
      2. Why the Hun Cannot Defeat the
         Frenchman.
      3. "I Am Only His Wife."
      4. A Soldier's Funeral in Paris.
      5. The Old Book-Lover of Louvain.
      6. A Vision of Judgment in Martyred
         Gerbéviller.
      7. The Return of the Refugees.
      8. An American Knight in France.
      9. An American Soldier's Grave in
         France.
     10. "These Flowers, Sir, I Will Lay
         Them Upon My Son's Grave."
     11. The Courage of Clemenceau.

 V. OUR BRITISH ALLIES                          132
      1. "Gott Strafe England"--"And
         Scotland."
      2. "England Must Not Starve."
      3. German-Americans Who Vilify
         England.
      4. British vs. American Girls in
         Munition Factories.
      5. The Wolves' Den on Vimy Ridge.
      6. "Why Did You Leave Us in
         Hell for Two Years?"
      7. "This War Will End Within
         Forty Years."
      8. "Why Are We Outmanned By
         the Germans?"

 VI. "OVER HERE"                                164
      1. The Redemption of a Slacker.
      2. Slackers versus Heroes.
      3. German Stupidity in Avoiding the
         Draft.
      4. "I'm Working Now for Uncle
         Sam."
      5. The German Farmer's Debt to the
         United States.
      6. "Sharper Than a Serpent's Tooth"
         Is an Ungrateful Immigrant.
      7. In Praise of Our Secret Service.

Publisher's Explanatory Note

These brief articles are sparks struck as it were from the anvil of events. They were written
on trains, in hotels, in the intervals between public addresses. During the past year beginning
October 1, 1917, Dr. Hillis, in addition to his work in Plymouth Church, and as President of
The Plymouth Institute, has visited no less than one hundred and sixty-two cities, and made
some four hundred addresses on "The National Crisis," "How Germany Lost Her Soul," "The Philosophy
of the German Atrocities," and "The Pan-German Empire Plot," the substance of these lectures
and addresses being given in the book, "German Atrocities," heretofore published. These articles
are illustrative of and supplementary to the principles stated in that volume.

While consenting to publication, the author was not afforded opportunity for full revision
of this second volume, being again called over-seas just as this book was being put into type.
This will account for the form in which the material appears.

THE ARCH-CRIMINAL

I

1. The Kaiser's Hatred of the United States

It is a proverb that things done in secret soon or late are published from the housetops.

Certainly everything that was hidden as to the plots of the Potsdam gang is, little by little,
now being revealed.

Nothing illustrates this fact better than that volume published in Leipsic in 1907, called
"Reminiscences of Ten Years in the German Embassy in Washington, D. C."

When that aged diplomat published the story of his diplomatic career he doubtless thought that
the volume prepared for his children and grandchildren and friends was forever buried in the
German language. It never even occurred to the Councillor of the Ambassador, von Holleben,
that the book would ever fall into the hands of any American. The very fact that an American
author found the volume in a second-hand bookstore of Vienna in 1914 and translated the three
chapters on the Kaiser's representatives in the United States and the organization of the German-American
League, must have roused the Foreign Department in Berlin to the highest point of anger.

Children and diplomats oftentimes unconsciously betray the most important secrets. No volume
ever published could possibly have revealed matters of greater moment to Germany than this
volume of reminiscences that sets forth the propaganda carried on in the United States by Ambassador
von Holleben and his legal councillor for the furthering of the Pan-German Empire scheme.

No scholar can doubt the right of this old diplomat to speak. The Kaiser personally vouched
for him by giving him this important duty. The honours bestowed at the end of his long diplomatic
career tell their own story. Every page breathes sincerity and truthfulness. No one who reads
this volume can doubt that this author gave the exact facts--facts well known to his German
friends--in the recollections of his diplomatic career.

This diplomat tells us plainly that von Holleben and himself were sent to the United States
specially charged with the task of reuniting Germans who were naturalized in America with the
German Empire.

It was their duty to organize secret German-American societies in every great city like New
York and Brooklyn, Chicago and Milwaukee, Cincinnati and St. Louis, and to present to these
societies a German flag sent from the hands of the Kaiser himself.

Their work, says the author, was based upon the fact that the Kaiser had passed a law restoring
full citizenship in Germany to those Germans who had become naturalized citizens of the United
States. When, therefore, these members of the German-American League formally accepted their
restored citizenship their first duty was to the Fatherland and the Kaiser and their second
duty to the United States and its Government. Indeed, this lawyer and author actually goes
so far as to give extracts from von Holleben's speech before the German-American League in
Chicago when he presented the society with a German flag and swore the members to the old-time
allegiance.

He says that in some way the editor of the Chicago Tribune found out about this meeting and
wrote a very severe editorial, after which, he adds, that von Holleben and himself had to be
more careful.

Concerning the Milwaukee meeting, he refers to a conversation which revealed his judgment that
if ever there was trouble between Germany and the United States the war would partake of the
nature of a civil war. The author not only gives an account of the conference held at the Waldorf-Astoria
between Ambassador von Holleben, Professors Munsterberg of Harvard and Schoenfield of Columbia
and himself, on the one side, and Herman Ridder on the other, but he gives the instructions
from Berlin that Herr Ridder could only keep his subsidy from the German Government for the
New Yorker Staats Zeitung by placing his fealty to Germany first and subordinating his Americanism,
and that otherwise Ambassador von Holleben would found a rival German paper that would have
back of it "unlimited resources, to wit: the total resources of the German Empire."

Here, then, is proof positive that the Kaiser began his efforts to establish a pro-German movement
against the United States for several years before 1906 and that he methodically kept it up
until the war began.

Through it all he claimed to be our sincere friend; but he was then, as he is to-day, an implacable
and relentless enemy, with a heart laden with hatred and bitterness.

2. The Kaiser's Character Revealed in His Choosing the Sultan for His Friend

Nothing tests manhood like the choice of a bosom-friend. Criminals choose bad associates.

Every Black Hand leader goes naturally towards the saloon, the gambling house and the dens
where thieves congregate. Dickens made Fagin surround himself with pickpockets, burglars and
murderers.

History tells us that Christianity has always kept good company. Its friends have been architects,
artists, poets and statesmen. Christianity repeats itself through its friends in the Gothic
Cathedral shaped in the form of the cross, in the Transfiguration of Raphael, the Duomo of
Giotto, the Paradise Lost of Milton, the In Memoriam of Tennyson, the Emancipation Proclamation
of Lincoln. Christianity has never formed any close friendships with jails, gallows or slave
ships. Men like Gladstone and Lincoln always kept good company; their friends have been scholars
and heroes; but, in striking contrast, consider the friends selected by the Kaiser.

To the Kaiser came a critical hour; at that moment he was at the parting of the ways. It became
necessary for him to make a choice of friends. Like every man, his isolation was impossible
and friendship became a necessity.

The Kaiser had the whole world from which to choose. Yonder in London were King Edward and
his son, the Prince of Wales. In France were certain statesmen and scientists like Curie. There
was the old hero living in the capital of Japan and two ex-Presidents known the world around
for their splendid manhood; and he could have made overtures of friendship to any one of these
brave men; but in the silence of the night the Kaiser passed in review earth's great men, and
finally selected for his close friend the lowest of the low--the butcher, unspeakable butcher--the
Sultan of Turkey.

At that time the Sultan had just completed the butchery of many Armenians. His garments were
red with blood, his hands dripped with gore. His house was a harem; his hand held a dagger.
The sea-wall behind his palace rose out of the blue waters of the Bosporus.

When an American battle-ship was anchored there and a diver went down he pulled a rope and
was brought up, shivering with terror, and saying that he found himself surrounded with corpses
tied in sacks and held down by stones at the bottom of the sea.

In that hour the Kaiser exclaimed: "Let the Sultan be my associate! I will go to Constantinople
and sign a treaty with the unspeakable butcher."

And so the Kaiser took his train, lived in the Sultan's palace, signed this treaty, and hired
the Sultan's knife and club, just as the Chief Priest Annas chose Judas to be his representative
upon whom he could load the responsibility for the murder of Jesus.

Never was a friendship more damnable. Reared in a country that believed in the sanctity of
the marriage relation and in monogamy, the Kaiser lined up with polygamy. The treaty that he
made was thoroughgoing. He sent out word to all Mohammedans, whether they lived in India or
Persia, in Arabia or Turkey, that they must remember that the Kaiser had entered into a treaty
to become their protector and friend. Having become a Lutheran in Berlin, he became a Mohammedan
in Constantinople on the principle that "When you are in Rome do as the Romans do, and when
you are in hell act like the devil"--a simple principle which the Kaiser proceeded to obey
as soon as he reached Constantinople.

Every one knew that the Kaiser wanted to build a German railroad through to Bagdad and the
Persian Gulf; this would give him an outlet for surplus goods to be sold in India. Serbia lay
straight across the path, and he had to work out some scheme to attack Serbia. Then he needed
the Sultan's friendship, and the end justified the means--and the end was the Bagdad Railroad.

But the Turk tired of being the Kaiser's tool; he wanted more land; the Armenian was in his
way; the Turk was lazy, shiftless and a spendthrift. The Armenian was industrious and hard-working.
The Turk's method of living made him poor. The gifts of the Armenian tended towards wealth.
Once in twenty years the Turk found himself a pauper and found the Armenian rich; the result
was envy and covetousness on the part of the Sultan and his people. It became necessary to
bribe the Turk to stand by the Kaiser and his Baghdad Railroad. The Kaiser's German officers,
therefore, furnished the bribe.

"Let us go to this Armenian village, or that, and kill the people. We German officers will
take the large houses of the rich merchants and move into them, and your Turkish soldiers can
kill the old men, use the Armenian girls for the harem, and fling the little children's bodies
into pits dug in the garden behind the house. We will enter the village in the morning as soldiers;
when the night comes, as Germans and Turks, we will be the only people living in the Armenian
village, and we will move into their stores and take possession of their houses and their looms."

"You cannot hang an entire nation," said Edmund Burke. "You must arrest the leaders and hang
them." Burke was right as to the punishment of criminals, but he was wrong when it comes to
murdering industrious and honest Armenians. You can murder an entire nation, for the Germans
and the Turks have practically done it. Ambassador Morgenthau has just said that the Kaiser
and the Sultan through their forces have murdered nearly a million Armenians. But, soon or
late, remorse and conscience will take hold upon these two unspeakable butchers with hands
that drip with blood--the butcher Kaiser, the butcher Sultan, that represent earth's two murderous
twins.

3. Pershing's Charges versus the Kaiser

Nothing measures a man so accurately as the names he gives to his favourite son. Most significant,
therefore, is the fact that the Kaiser named his second son Eitel, or Attila. Who was this
Attila who has captured the imagination of the Kaiser? He was a Hun who devastated Italy fifteen
hundred years ago. The motto of this black-hearted murderer Attila the Hun was: "Where my feet
fall, let grass not grow for a hundred years." When the Kaiser read Attila's story he exclaimed:
"That is the man for me!" First, he named his favourite son for Attila the Hun. Second, in
sending his German soldiers out to China, and later in 1914 to Belgium, he gave them this charge:
"You will take no prisoners; you will show no mercy; you will give no quarter; you will make
yourselves as terrible as the Huns under Attila." Plainly the Kaiser knew his men. He knew
that they were capable of outdoing even that monster Attila the Hun. So he sent them forth
to bayonet babes, violate old women, murder old men, crucify officers, violate nuns, sink Lusitanias,
and turn solemn treaties into scraps of paper.

Now over against the Kaiser's charge, black as hell, and big with death, witness Pershing's
charge, reported loosely by a French boy, with his imperfect knowledge of English, translated
out of the French newspapers on July 18, 1917. Pershing's brief address comes to this:

"Young soldiers of America, you are here in France to help expel an invading enemy; but you
are also here to lift a shield above the poor and weak; you will safeguard all property; you
will lift a shield above the aged and oppressed; you will be most courteous to women, gentle
and kind to little children; guard against temptation of every kind; fear God, fight bravely,
defend Liberty, honour your native land. God have you in His keeping." "Pershing."

The difference between yonder lowest hell in its uttermost abyss and yonder highest heaven,
where standeth the throne of a just God, is not greater than the chasm that separates that
unspeakable butcher, the Kaiser, from General Pershing and the American soldier boys, who have
never betrayed in France, the noblest ideals of service cherished by the people of the American
Republic.

4. Who Taught the Kaiser That a Treaty Is a Scrap of Paper?

Each month of this war clears away some clouds and reveals Germany as wholly given over to
crime and treachery. At the beginning of the invasion of Belgium, the Kaiser spoke of his treaty
safeguarding the neutrality of that little land as a "scrap of paper." At the moment no one
seems to have realized whence the Kaiser had that cynical expression. Now the whole damnable
story has been made clear. Twenty-five years ago the Kaiser, in one of his addresses, used
these words:

"From my childhood I have been under the influence of five men--Alexander, Julius Cæsar, Theodoric
II, Napoleon and Frederick the Great. These five men dreamed their dream of a world empire;
they failed. I am dreaming my dream of a world empire, but I shall succeed."

Now why did the Kaiser over and over again proclaim his allegiance to Frederick the Great?
How is it that he celebrates his ancestor, Frederick? This "scrap of paper" incident makes
it all quite clear. The bitter waters gushing out of the Potsdam Palace go back to a bitter
spring named Frederick the Great. The poisoned fruit that ripened in 1914 hangs on a bough
whose trunk was planted by Frederick in far-off days.

Among many musty old German books recently published is a little book by that same Frederick.
The Prussian king was writing certain notes for the guidance of his sons and successors, among
whom is the present Kaiser. In his page of counsels Frederick talks very plainly about the
breaking of treaties:

"Consider a treaty as a scrap of paper under any one of the following emergencies: First, when
necessity compels it. Second, when you lack means to continue the war. Third, when you cannot
by any other means combat your ally or enemy."

Then Frederick raises one question: "If the interests of your army or your people or yourself
are at stake or you have to keep your word on one hand and your pledge word and treaty is on
the other hand, which path will you take? Who can be stupid enough to hesitate in answering
this question? In other words, treaties are to be kept when they promote your interest, and
shamelessly broken when you gain thereby."

The Kaiser, therefore, had from Frederick, his ancestor, this handbook on lying. In turn, the
Kaiser gave this notion of the treaty as a scrap of paper to his Chancellor, Bethmann-Hollweg,
who engraved, as has been said, "on eternal brass the infamy of Germany": "We are now in a
state of necessity, and necessity knows no law. We were compelled to override the the just
protest of Luxembourg and Belgian Governments.

Guizot mentions "honour and fidelity to the pledged word" as one of the distinguishing elements
of what is called "a civilized State." But this puts Germany among the barbarous savages. Three
indictments and convictions have blackened the name of Germany throughout all the world. First,
her atrocious and dishonourable methods of warfare; second, the carrying off into slavery of
non-combatants, the Belgians and French, and third, the breach of the pledged word and the
solemn treaties with other nations.

But at last we know that Frederick the Great, the ancestor of the Kaiser, was the author of
the phrase, "the treaty is a scrap of paper." What was once in the gristle in the ancestor
is now bred in the bone of the Kaiser and Crown Prince. That phrase, "a scrap of paper," holds
the germ of a thousand wars. It spells the ruin of civilization. Not to resent it by war, is
for the Allies to commit spiritual suicide.

5. The Plot of the Kaiser

All the pamphlets issued secretly to the members of the Pan-German League invariably used Rome
as their illustration. We are not surprised, therefore, to find that the German leaders called
attention to the fact that it took two wars at intervals of some years to make Rome a world empire.

In like manner, therefore, the Kaiser and his Cabinet told the German people at home and abroad
that the first war, beginning in 1914, would establish a Middle-Europe Empire extending from
Hamburg on the North Sea to Bagdad on the Persian Gulf.

One of the pamphlets issued many years ago fixed the countries to be conquered about 1915,
and distinctly mentioned Denmark, Holland, Belgium and North France, Poland and Rumania, Hungary
and Austria, Serbia and Bulgaria, and the wheat granaries of Russia, with Turkey and Armenia.

The number of people to be conquered and included after the first war was fixed at 250,000,000.

The argument states that it will take but a few years to compact this Middle-Europe Empire
and that naturally Great Britain, Spain and Italy, to the west, with Norway and Sweden to the
north, with Italy and Switzerland to the south, and of course Greece and Egypt would, from
time to time, as crises came, fall inevitably into Germany's hand. Berlin, as the world capital,
should by 1920 be the magnet, and the little particles of iron, named the Balkan States, would
be drawn and held by this great German magnet in Berlin.

The first step to be taken and the first goal to be reached concerned, of course, the English
Channel, the Dutch cities on the mouth of the Rhine, and the iron mines of Northern France.
We know to an absolute certainty all the details of this plan.

For more than thirty years Germany had been organizing her army; she knew every road, inn,
bridge, factory, shop, and wholesale store in Denmark and Holland, Belgium and France. In all
of the larger ones she had German agents belonging to the Pan-German League toiling as workmen
and every detail was planned out in advance.

In 1910 General von Bissing, one of the Kaiser's closest friends, was sent to Brussels. For
years he spent the summer months apparently at the watering places near The Hague in Holland
and Ostend in Belgium, preparatory to the hour when Germany would seize Belgium and he assume
his position as Governor-General, living in Brussels.

Men nearing death tell the truth. In January of 1917 von Bissing prepared a memorandum for
the direction of Belgian affairs in His Majesty's name and according to his wish. This document
contains the meditations of a dying man. The statements he makes, he says, contain the views
that inspired his every act in Belgium during his administration.

In his last will and testament von Bissing, in the spring of 1917, advises the German Government
in Berlin that the time has come to throw off all disguises. He says that at the beginning
of the war it was probably good policy to deny that the Government ever intended to annex Belgium,
but, he says, "now that we are victorious there is no reason why we should not publish to the
world the fact that we never intend to give up one foot of the Belgian sea-coast, nor one ton
of the Belgian coal, nor one acre of the French iron mines."

He says plainly: "The annual Belgian production of 23,000,000 tons of coal has given us a monopoly
on the continent which has helped to maintain our vitality. If we do not hold Belgium, administer
Belgium in future for our interest and protect Belgium by force of arms, our trade and industry
will lose the positions they have won in Belgium and perhaps will never recover them."

And what about Dutch cities and seaports? On page eighteen of General von Bissing's last will
and testament he adds:

"Our frontier, in the interest of our sea power, must be pushed forward to the sea." This sentence
makes it perfectly plain that a little later Germany intends to incorporate Rotterdam in her
own customs union. "Belgium must be seized and held, as it now is, and as it is to-day it must
be in the future. The conquest of Belgium has simply been forced upon us by the necessities
of German expansion."

Von Bissing, however, recognizes the difficulty of annexing Belgium and securing the consent
of the members who shall arrange the treaty of peace at the conclusion of the war, and this
is his decision:

"Our best method, therefore, is to avoid, during the peace negotiations, all discussion about
the form of the annexation and to apply nothing but the right of conquest. Plainly Belgium's
King can never consent to abandon his sovereignty, but we can read in Machiavelli that he who
desires to take possession of a country will be compelled to remove the King or regent, even
by killing him."

Von Bissing has torn off all masks. He himself states that he is speaking for the Kaiser, as
his most trusted friend and counsellor. Germany intends, therefore, ultimately to kill King
Albert of Belgium, and this carries with it that the Kaiser and his War Staff believe they
have the right to kill any King or President who happens to stand in the pathway of their ambition.
Every lover of mankind whose heart is knitted in with the poor and the weak will understand
what that editor meant the other day when he said:

"The one duty of the hour, therefore, for America, is to kill Germans, that we may keep the
rest of the world from being killed."

THE JUDAS AMONG NATIONS

II

1. The Original Plot of the Members of the Potsdam Gang

Many historic meetings, big with social disaster, are recorded in history. Witness the meeting
of the Athenian judges for the killing of Socrates. Witness the coming together of the priests
and Judas for the piteous tragedy of the death of Jesus. Witness that midnight meeting of the
conspirators in Florence for the burning of Savonarola. Terrible also the results of that meeting
in the Potsdam Palace in 1896 that culminated in the Pan-German Empire scheme.

What began as a spark that day has ended in a world conflagration.

In retrospect the Kaiser and his associates had many events behind them to encourage the ambition
to make Berlin a world capital, Kaiser Wilhelm the world emperor and all the other nations
and races subject peoples.

Beginning in 1860 with thirty-five millions of people and only fifteen billions of dollars,
Germany had climbed to greatness upon iron steps, heated hot by war. Never did wars yield so
large a return.

The war with Denmark had given Germany the Kiel Harbour, the Kiel Canal and a sea-coast for
her ships.

The war with Austria had given Germany the rich coal provinces of Central Europe. The war with
France had given Germany the iron mines of Alsace and Lorraine.

And here for the next war were Denmark and Holland, Belgium and northern France--so many jewel
boxes that could be looted. To the eastward were Poland with her coal mines, Rumania with her
oil fields and Russia with her wheat granaries. And once Central Europe became a Middle-Europe
German Empire there was no reason why later on Germany should not extend her conquests to Russia
on the east and England on the west, and then to North and South America.

It was a great scheme. Never was prize so rich. Never could obstacles be so easily swept away.

Plainly the first thing to be done was to organize the Pan-German Empire League and educate
the leading men of Germany--the ship owners, bankers, merchants and manufacturers, editors,
ministers, priests and university professors.

Local branch societies were organized in all the large German towns and cities. Weekly meetings
were held, papers read and reports made. Slowly people of the middle class were included in
the league. Documents marked "Secret and Confidential" were distributed, setting forth the
details of the scheme.

Full reports were made as to what Germany could make by seizing the fields of Denmark, the
cities on the mouth of the Rhine in Belgium, the coal and iron mines of France, Poland and
Russia, and also the undeveloped resources of the Valley of the Euphrates.

Careful statements were prepared as to the difficulties that must be surmounted, but always
this lure was held out--that the poorest German who then had nothing, would when Germany was
victorious become a landowner, live in a mansion and drive his own automobile. Then he would
have Russians and Frenchmen to wait upon him, since the German was a superman, intended for
a patrician, while all other races were pigs, intended by nature to be bondsmen and plebeians.

"The rest of the world is amassing wealth, and when the fruit is ripe then we Germans will
pluck it"--this was their motto.

Little by little the germ of world-ambition became a fever, burning in the soul of every German
at home or abroad. It took twenty years to thoroughly inculcate every individual of the German
race with this feverish ambition, but when 1914 came every German had gone over to the Pan-German
scheme and was ready to die for it.

2. The Berlin Schemers and Their Plot

After all the Germans at home and abroad understood the Pan-German scheme of seditious intrigue
in foreign countries and the vast web was spun and thrown out over all the cities and continents
where the Kaiser's representatives were living, the second thing to be done was to make the
plan clear by spreading it out like a great map. The method used, therefore, was pictorial.

The Department of Publicity in Berlin became experts on geography. They began to issue illustrated
maps so that the rudest German peasants and the German colonists living in Milwaukee or El
Paso, in Rio Janeiro or Buenos Aires, in Brussels or St. Petersburg, in Melbourne or Calcutta,
could easily understand the method and the goal.

Out of twenty maps issued in Berlin and reproduced by Andre Cheredame, no one is more important
than the one marked "The Old Roman Empire." The simplest German miner understood the map at
a glance and realized its meaning for the members of the Pan-German League. Here is old Rome
marked world capital. Here is Cæsar Augustus called the first world emperor. Here is Carthage
with its capital looted and Roman peasants remaining after the victory to move into rich men's
houses and estates of North Africa. And here also were the maps of conquered Palestine, Ephesus,
Athens and Corinth. To be sure the old Romans had to become soldiers, but, later, did not each
Roman soldier live in the rich gardens around Thebes, Ephesus and Corinth?

Instantly the imaginations of the German peasants and workmen kindled. The Kaiser was right.
What had been in Rome must be in Berlin. The Elbe must succeed the Tiber. Berlin shall be the
second world-capital. Our Wilhelm shall be the second world-emperor. Germania shall be written
straight across Europe from Hamburg on the North Sea to Bagdad on the Persian Gulf. Germans
alone shall be allowed to carry weapons, as once only the Roman was allowed to own a spear;
only Germans shall be allowed to hold title deeds to lands, even as once only Romans could
hold a field or a house in fee simple. Old Rome won by becoming a military State.

Did not the people of Rome go forth as soldiers and return with triumphal processions, with
treasures of loot that took days to pass along the Appian Way, while the Romans stood cheering
and the women and children sang and threw flowers in the path? Why should not the German army,
between the reaping of the wheat in July and the threshing of the wheat in October, return
from Brussels and Paris laden with treasure, while a second triumphal procession marched down
Wilhelmstrasse?

The German peasants kindled at this dream. Why should the German have to live always on bologna
sausage, drink beer, eat sauerkraut and live in ugly houses when the people of Paris and London
drank champagne, ate roast fowl, wore French laces and the finest English wools? It was a wicked
shame. Surely the German was intended for something better than sauerkraut and beer!

"Two weeks and we will be in Brussels. Three weeks and we will have Paris. Two months and we
will loot London."

This was the plan. How significant that letter, taken from the dead body of a German boy found
in No Man's Land, near Compiègne.

"Within three days, Liebschen, we will be in Paris. I intend to bring you a pocketful of Paris
rings and jewels, with Paris gowns and laces."

From the body of a German boy found near Lunéville was taken this letter saying that, with
his three companions, he had picked out four French farms and left the houses standing, and
that his friends and himself had picked out these farms as permanent homes. Later he added
that Heinrich thought it would be much better for them to wait until they smashed England and
made Canada a German colony. Then they could own, not small French farms, but vast Canadian
farms with a hundred tenants working for him in the valleys around Toronto and the vineyards
of Winnipeg and orchards of Hudson Bay.

Most shrewd and cunning, the plotters of the Potsdam gang. They knew how to feed the fires
of envy and avarice in the German people. Every few weeks they placed new material in the hands
of every German at home and abroad. They reminded each poor peasant and foreign colonist that
he was a superman, and that by day and by night he was to prepare for the time when he would
become the head of all the people of the town or industry with which he was related. Poor Germans
in foreign countries dreamed their dreams of the time when they would be appointed by the Kaiser
and Foreign Minister to take charge of the village in Mexico, the mine in Chile, or when they
would be the tax collector in some distant province.

We know now, from letters that have been found, that the German soldiers in France carried
in their pockets a description by the German historian Curtius of the triumphal procession
along the Appian Way, when the Roman conquerors came home loaded with loot. These skillful
German plotters printed at the bottom of Curtius's description the statement that each German
soldier must look forward to a similar return from London, Paris and Brussels to march through
the streets of Munich and Berlin.

What a dream was this German dream! What treasures were to be brought into Berlin! What marbles
and bronzes of Rodin stolen from Paris! At last Berlin was to own beautiful paintings, for
the treasures of the Louvre were to be the Kaiser's.

Never was there such a dream dreamed by peasants who soon were to become princes and kings
and patricians. The German had exchanged the rye bread of 1913 for the "fog bank" of 1918;
had given up German beer to grasp only empty, breaking bubbles. But it was a great dream while
it lasted. In pursuance of his hope he sacrificed three million German boys, left dead in the
fields of Flanders and France. He sent home four million German cripples. He filled the land
with vast armies of widows and orphans.

It could not have been otherwise. There has never been, and never will be, but one world city--Rome;
and there has never been but one world-emperor--Cæsar Augustus. There is to be one universal
kingdom--and that is the kingdom of God, the kingdom of love, justice, peace and good-will.
The German has been pursuing a will-o'-the-wisp.

A world-kingdom will come, but no Kaiser will rule over that empire of love. In that world-parliament
all the races shall be represented as equals; then the earth that has long been a battle-field
shall become an Eden garden, where all are patriots towards the world-kingdom, and scholars
towards the intellect, and self-sufficing towards the family, and obedient towards their God.

3. German Superiority a Myth That Has Exploded

Several years before the great war began a Dutch humorist wrote a play on German megalomania.
He portrayed a German schoolroom in Prussia. Thirty or forty embryonic Prussians are at the
desks and a Prussian schoolmaster is in the chair.

"Children, what is the greatest country in the world?"

All shouted vociferously, "Germany!"

"What is the greatest city in the world?"

"Berlin!"

"Who is the greatest man in the world?"

"The Kaiser!"

"Should there ever be, children, a vacancy in the Trinity, who is best fitted to fill the position?"

"The Crown Prince!"

"Who are the chosen people of the good old German God?"

"The German people!"

Never was there a finer bit of sarcasm and yet the Germans were never able to understand the
play. The Kaiser, the War Staff, the Cabinet, down to the last wretched creature working in
the stables and the sewers, reading the play, exclaimed:

"What is the man driving at? Why, of course the Germans are the greatest people in the world--we
admit it!"

Now, during the last few years the Germans have spent untold millions in propagating this myth
of superiority, and yet the German intellect has never even had a second-rate position. Call
the roll of all the tools that have redeemed men from drudgery and you will find that Germany's
contributions are hopelessly inferior to the other nations.

The new industrial era began with the locomotive and steamship; James Watt invented the one
and Stevenson the other.

The new era of physical comfort began with the loom; a Frenchman named Jacquard and an Englishman
named Arkwright made men warm for their work in winter. Garments within the reach of the poor
man in forest and factory, field and mine, means the cotton gin, and that gin is the gift of
an American. The sewing machine changed woman's position, but the world owes that to our own
Elias Howe.

We owe the telegraph to an English inventor and, in part, to Morse. We owe the cable in part
to Lord Kelvin and, in part, to Cyrus Field. We owe the telephone to Bell and the wireless
to Marconi.

Holland invented the submarine, Wright the airplane, McCormick the reaper and Edison the phonograph.

An American invented the German submarine; an American invented the German torpedo; an American
invented the German machine-gun; an American invented the Murphy button, the yellow fever antitoxin,
the Dakin solution.

An English physician discovered the circulation of the blood, Jenner gave us vaccination, Lister
antiseptics, France the Pasteur serums and the Curie radio discoveries, while a Bulgarian,
Dr. Metchnikoff, discovered the enemies of the blood.

It was from France, England and the United States that Germany stole the typewriter, the steel
building, the use of rubber, the aniline dyes, reënforced concrete bridges, air-brakes, the
use of electricity.

One of the most amazing volumes in the world is the "History of Tools and Machinery." We have
all known for a long time that there is not one single German name among the eight great masters
of painting that begins with Rembrandt and includes men like Velasquez and Giotto. We have
long known that there is no German sculptor of the first class nor a German sculptor that is
within ten thousand leagues of Rodin, Michael Angelo or Phidias. We have long known that Schubert
and Schumann and Rubinstein and Haydn and Chopin were all Jews, and that three-fourths of the
other so-called German musicians were Jews whose ancestors suffered such frightful political
disabilities in Germany and were so regularly looted of all their property that they gave up
their Hebrew names and took German, just as now thousands upon thousands of Germans in this
country, ashamed of their names, are Americanizing their family title.

The simple fact is that if a Jew will only write the creative music, like that of Beethoven,
a German whose gift is detail will conduct the orchestra.

The German can standardize a machine, providing an Englishman, a Frenchman or an American will
first invent it. The German will gather up the remnants and scraps and odds and ends in a clothing
factory--but, oh, think of an American gentleman having to wear the coat that was cut by a
tailor in Berlin or Munich! Having during ten different summers looked at their garments, all
one can say is that the German men and women are covered up but not clothed.

For thirty years the Germans have paid their representatives to stand on the corner of the
street and bawl out to every passer-by: "Great is the Kaiser! Great are we Germans! Let all
people with cymbals, sackbut, shawms and psaltery cry aloud, saying 'Great is the Kaiser and
all his people!'"

And now suddenly the myth has burst like a bubble. The delusion is exploded. The Kaiser has
found out that it is dangerous to blow too much hot air into a German bladder.

Measured around the stomach in the Hofbraus in the presence of a barrel of beer, the Prussian
and the Bavarian are great; but the hat band requires the least material of any made in four
countries.

For the time has come to confess this simple fact that for any one great tool, or art, or contribution
to science created by a German there are four invented by either an American, an Englishman
or a Frenchman.

4. German Intrigues

The spider's web stretched out over a flower bed with a great fat spider at the centre and
the threads along which the spider runs to thrust its poisoned sting into the enmeshed butterfly
is nature's most accurate symbol of the vast web of espionage lying over North and South America
with secret threads that vibrated to the touch of the spider at the centre named Berlin.

In that web thousands of German-Americans were enmeshed. The records of our Secret Service
concerning these German enemies of the American Government read like a book of assassinations
or like a history of the black arts. When the whole story comes to be told it will horrify
the world.

The quality of the German-Americans that Berlin bribed is set forth in the reminiscences of
Witte when he says that the Kaiser and the Foreign Department paid Munsterberg of Harvard University
$5,000 a year salary and that Munsterberg was the most successful and efficient spy that the
German system had ever developed.

In the long list of German agents are to be found the names of German-American bankers who
received secret decorations and medals from the German Government; of German merchants who
were partners in this country of firms in the Fatherland and were bribed by a ribbon and an
invitation to the Potsdam Palace; of German newspaper men who were under German pay, and, most
amazing of all, among the papers seized in the office of a German Consul was found a commission
appointing this Consul in an American city to the office of Governor-General of one of the
greatest States of Canada as soon as Canada became a German colony.

Many of the threads from Berlin ran into the various cities of Mexico. A German head office
was set up under the general direction of Zimmermann in Berlin and of von Bernstorff in Washington.
Certain large institutions that did business in Mexico, working in the same field, were quietly
elbowed out of Mexico, and an American company, ostensibly American, but controlled by Germans,
took over the business of the other firms under special arrangement with Mexico. Pledges were
given Mexico that as soon as Germany had reduced Canada and the United States to the position
of German colonies, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada and California should be handed back
to the Mexicans.

Millions were spent by the German Foreign Office as ordinary men spend dollars. The German
spies, like Boy-Ed and von Papen, arranged to blow up American munition factories and held
dinners waiting for a telephone message saying that the magazine had just exploded or the depot
had taken fire or a scow had been sunk, after which they drank the health of the man who lighted
the match.

German agents burned up wheat elevators with hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of wheat;
they fired warehouses, blew up bridges, wrecked munition plants, destroyed shiploads of food,
dynamited the House of Parliament in Ottawa, sank the Lusitania near Ireland, spread glanders
among the horses in Sweden, poisoned the food in Rumania, sank the ships of Norway, plotted
against the Argentine Republic.

The web had as its centre the Potsdam Palace, but its black lines ran out into all the earth.

5. German Burglars Loaded With Loot Are the More Easily Captured

It seems that Germany has published, for the Spaniards, a list of treasures she has won. In
the long calendar the reader finds that eight States--Belgium, France, Poland, Rumania, Russia,
Serbia, Armenia, Italy--have all been looted.

The Germans claim they have spoiled over three hundred first class cities, several thousand
secondary cities and towns; they add that they have destroyed seventy-three cathedrals and
looted them of their priceless treasures of statues, paintings, stained glass, vessels of silver
and gold.

With brazen audacity the German pamphlet tells the Spaniards that they have seized so many
hundred thousand watches, so many hundred thousand rings, so much treasure of diamonds and
jewels, so many paintings from rich men's houses, and the long boast ends with the statement
that they "obtained nearly five billions of loot out of western Russia and have assessed two
billions more upon the farmers, villages and cities of Ukraine."

But the boast is an idle and empty boast. It is true that no army of the Allies has crossed
the German frontier to permanently hold a city. But let no man think that Germany has succeeded
because of the richness of her loot. There is a success that is failure. There is a victory
that is defeat.

Macbeth killed Duncan and went to live in the palace of the dead king, but did Macbeth succeed?
Was not his palace a brief halting place in his journey towards remorse, insanity and the day
when Duncan's friends in turn slew Macbeth?

The rich judges of Athens succeeded and Socrates failed. They went home to drink wine and feast,
while Socrates went to the jail to drink a cup of poison. But who succeeded? The judges whose
names are written low down and bespattered with dirt--or Socrates, whose name fills the sky
and who has become the thinker for the world?

What if the Kaiser does boast of his successes to-day? So boasted Nero--sending Paul to his
rags, crusts and the dungeon preparatory to the headman's axe. But it is Nero that lost out,
and it is Paul who reigns a crowned king.

The chief priests celebrated their victory; at the close of the day, after they had succeeded
in crucifying Jesus; but after nineteen centuries the murderers are unknown and almost forgotten,
while that young carpenter rules over His Empire of Love.

To-day the Kaiser claims to have won the victory of "a superman." In that he has carried murder,
arson, lying, rapine, lust up to the nth power, let us concede his claim. Not otherwise two
hundred years ago the Indian, with his scalping knife, his war-whoop and his tomahawk, was
"a superman" in terms of savagery. Not otherwise the Spaniards under Bloody Alva were "supermen"
in terms of rack, thumbscrew and instruments of torture.

But what savages once did in the little, the Kaiser and his men now do in the large. But because
the Kaiser can publish a long list of wealth gained--by breaking his treaties, by murder, arson
and lust--let no man think that he is successful.

The two Biddle brothers looted the Bank of England, but they became outcasts upon the face
of the earth, and always the dungeon yawned for them, just as the Kaiser and von Hindenburg
never sleep at night without a vision of an oak tree, a long bough and a hemp rope dangling
at the end, for the hemp is now twisted that will one day choke to death the murderous Kaiser
and his War Staff.

Let no patriot, whether he lives in Spain, Russia or the United States, forget that ours is
a world ruled by men who were defeated.

To-day on the thrones of the world are the heroes, like Paul and Demosthenes; the martyrs who
were burned with Savonarola in Florence or poisoned with Socrates in Athens.

To-day, the soldiers of Marathon and Marston Moor, Gettysburg and the Marne now rule the world.

The treasure of the burglar and the brigand dissolves like snowflakes in a river.

Long ago the Hebrew poet said: "I have seen the wicked flourish like a green bay tree, and
then I lifted up my eyes, and, behold! he was not." And when a little time has passed all lovers
of liberty and humanity will exclaim: "During four years I have seen the Kaiser and von Hindenburg
flourish as the green bay tree, and I lifted up mine eyes, and, behold! they were not. For
the breath of His nostrils had slain them."

6. Germans Who Hide Behind the Screen

Two thousand years are a long time in terms of history.

Many damnable tools have been invented during these twenty centuries. The rack, the thumbscrew,
the tomahawk, the fagot belong among these devilish instruments.

Cruelties so terrible have been devised that old scholars often felt unwilling to believe that
men were so low in the scale as to have been the authors of these methods of fiendishness.

In the hope, therefore, of keeping respect for man many scholars transferred all responsibility
unto devils. They called in Satan and made him to be the father of hate and cruelty. They could
not believe that Nero, Judas or Torquemada could conceive such wickedness. They therefore made
the devil with his cloven feet and his long tail to whisper these cunning suggestions in the
ear of the traitor. Thus the responsibility for unwonted cruelty was divided between the murderer
and the devil who counselled the black crime.

Perhaps the most damnable thing that was ever suggested by the devil in two thousand years
is this little object called the German soldier's token. Never did an object so small send
forth cruelties so large and manifold.

The little disc is stamped out on thick paper for German privates and upon aluminum for the
officers. At the top of this cardboard is the portrait of that awful being called by the Kaiser
"our good old German God."

Look at his white hair, the long beard and the great sword in the right hand, with the suggestion
that since God uses the sword the German soldier must cut men to pieces also.

Beneath you see flames gushing up, suggesting to the German soldier that he is quite right
in burning the houses of France and Belgium after he has looted them, and for flinging the
dead bodies into the blazing rafters. Now read the words written beneath the face of the being
the Germans call God.

"Strike them all dead. The Day of Judgment shall ask you no questions."

Strike dead old men and women! Dash the children's brains out against the stone wall! Violate
young girls! Mutilate their fair bodies so that they will be unseemly when they are found by
the husband or father. Burn, steal, kill--but remember that your Kaiser and the War Staff have
promised to stand between you and God Almighty and the Day of Judgment! Even if Jesus did say,
"Woe unto them that offend against my little ones," you must remember that your Kaiser and
officers have promised you immunity on the Day of Judgment.

That is what is meant by the sentence on page thirty-one in the German handbook of "War on
Land": "That which is permissible to the German soldier is anything whatsoever that will help
him gain his goal quickly."

Nothing better illustrates the total collapse of manhood in the Germans than this soldier's token.

A coward by nature, the German is afraid to kill and steal, and so he invented a screen behind
which he could hide and named it "the soldier's token."

Going into a French village the Germans collect the women and children, order them to march
in advance, shoot a few to terrorize the rest, and then, hiding behind this living screen,
the Germans march forward. In this way they protect themselves.

The whole history of the human race contains no chapter of atrocity like the atrocity of the
Germans. The history of the world contains no story of cowardice so black and damnable as the
cowardice of the Germans. Out of cowardice the soldier's token was born.

And so the Kaiser and the War Staff invented this round piece of cardboard, with the representation
of God as going forth with His sword to kill men and with His flames to burn them and with
the motto: "Strike them all dead, for the Day of Judgment will ask you no questions."

Therefore among the instruments of cruelty, called the rack, the fagot, the thumbscrew and
the tomahawk, let us give the first place to the German soldier's token, the most damnable
weapon that has come out of hell during the last two thousand years.

7. Must German Men Be Exterminated?

A singular revulsion of sentiment as to what must be done with the German army after the war,
is now sweeping over the civilized world. Men who once were pacifists, men of chivalry and
kindness, men whose life has been devoted to philanthropy and reform, scholars and statesmen,
whose very atmosphere is compassion and magnanimity towards the poor and weak, are now uttering
sentiments that four years ago would have been astounding beyond compare. These men feel that
there is no longer any room in the world for the German. Society has organized itself against
the rattlesnake and the yellow fever. Shepherds have entered into a conspiracy to exterminate
the wolves. The Boards of Health are planning to wipe out typhoid, cholera and the Black Plague.
Not otherwise, lovers of their fellow man have finally become perfectly hopeless with reference
to the German people. They have no more relations to the civilization of 1918 than an orang-outang,
a gorilla, a Judas, a hyena, a thumbscrew, a scalping knife in the hands of a savage. These
brutes must be cast out of society.

Some of us, hoping against hope, after the reluctant confession of the truth of the German
atrocities, have appealed to education. We knew that Tacitus said, nearly two thousand years
ago, that "the German treats women with cruelty, tortures his enemies, and associates kindness
with weakness." But nineteen centuries of education have not changed the German one whit. The
mere catalogue of the crimes committed by German officers and soldiers and set forth in more
than twenty volumes of proofs destroys the last vestige of hope for their future. Think of
the catalogue! Babies nailed like rats to the doors of houses! Children skewered on a bayonet
midst the cheers of marching Germans--as if the child were a quail, skewered on a fork! Matrons,
old men and priests slaughtered; young Italian officers with throats cut and hanging on hooks
in butchers' shops; the bombing of Red Cross hospitals and nurses and the white flag; everything
achieved by civilized man defiled and destroyed--reverence for childhood and age, the sanctity
of womanhood, the standards of honour, fidelity to treaties and all destroyed, not in a mood
of drunkenness or a fit of rage, but on a deliberate, cold, calculated policy of German frightfulness.

The sense of hopelessness as to civilizing the German and keeping him as an element in the
new society grew out of the breakdown of education and science in changing the German of the
time of Tacitus. Plainly the time has come to make full confession of the fact that education
can change the size but not the sort. The German in the time of Tacitus was ignorant when he
took the children of his enemy and dashed their brains out against the wall; the German of
1914 and 1918 still butchers children, the only difference being that the butchery is now more
efficient and better calculated, through scientific cruelty, to stir horror and spread frightfulness.
The leopard has not changed its spots. The rattlesnake is larger and has more poison in the
sac; the German wolf has increased in size, and where once he tore the throat of two sheep,
now he can rend ten lambs in half the time. In utter despair, therefore, statesmen, generals,
diplomats, editors are now talking about the duty of simply exterminating the German people.
There will shortly be held a meeting of surgeons in this country. A copy of the preliminary
call lies before me. The plan to be discussed is based upon the Indiana State law. That law
authorizes a State Board of Surgeons to use upon the person of confirmed criminals and hopeless
idiots the new painless method of sterilizing the men. These surgeons are preparing to advocate
the calling of a world conference to consider the sterilization of the ten million German soldiers,
and the segregation of their women, that when this generation of German goes, civilized cities,
states and races may be rid of this awful cancer that must be cut clean out of the body of society.

THE BLACK SOUL OF THE HUN

III

1. German Barbarism Not Barbarism to the German

Strictly speaking, the only man who thoroughly understands the cruelty of the Germans is the
German himself. No American or Englishman, no Belgian or Frenchman has the gift of telepathy
that enables him to know what is going on in the German mind that guides the German's hand
in committing his horrible atrocities. Now and then, in a moment when he is off guard, an occasional
German reveals the explanation, and we look in, just as John Bunyan's pilgrim saw the door
into Hades opened by a little crack, through which he looked upon the flames. Not otherwise
was it with that German in Baltimore, who recently exposed the German mind, and from the German
view-point explained the Germans in their hour of brutality.

During a most intimate and personal conversation with a banker, this German, the other day,
explained his people's atrocities by saying that what is barbarism and atrocities to England,
France or the United States is not barbarism at all to the Germans. In proof of this astounding
statement the German gave this personal incident of his boyhood. He said that in his gymnasium
there was another boy who had something that he wanted. When the opportunity came, being the
stronger, he jumped upon the other boy, beat him up terribly and made him a cripple for life.
On reaching his home he showed his parents what he had stolen, and he was patted on the back,
praised for his might with his fists, and told that that was the method he was to follow in
after life.

He insisted that this sort of thing was drilled into every German boy, and for that reason
it never once even occurred to him that he had done wrong. "After I became a man I settled
in America, and as I came to understand the spirit of American civilization it grew upon me
that I had committed a crime, and now for twenty-two years, as some atonement for my sin, I
have been supporting that crippled man and his widowed mother."

The modern banker has become a sort of confessor, and to the banker many sins are revealed
as once to the priest. Nothing is more significant than this German confession and his philosophy
of the German atrocity. In his own written letter concerning that crime of his boyhood this
German adds: "Had I remained in Germany no one would ever have thought of suggesting to me
that I had done wrong, and it would never have entered into my head that I was under any obligation
to the man I had maimed. In the light of American civilization I understand the difference,
and I am seeking to atone for my sin, but all Germans have been taught, as I was taught. The
Germans, therefore, in their campaign of frightfulness, are committing deeds which from the
view-point of American civilization are barbarous, but from the view-point of Germans are not
crimes at all."

The significance of this frank confession of a German, his story of how America had redeemed
his soul out of the spirit of force and cruelty into the spirit of kindness, humanity and justice,
reveals more of the real nature of the German beast and the Potsdam gang than a thousand volumes
on the philosophy of German atrocities. The simple fact is that the crimes of the Germans are
abominable atrocities to us, but that intellectually and morally the German officer and soldier
simply do not know what we mean by our horror and the wave of moral indignation that has swept
over the earth. Jesse Pomeroy used to pull canary birds apart, and tortured children to death.
But the boy was deficient in the nerve of humanity. He simply stared with blank eyes when the
judge and the jury condemned him. He was incapable of knowing what the excitement over the
dead body was about. The Grey Phalarope is included in Professor Ansted's list, but no letters
marking its distribution through the Islands are added, perhaps because it was considered to
be generally distributed through all of them. There is no specimen at present in the Museum.

128. HERON. Ardea cinerea, Linnaeus. French, "Heron cendré", "Heron huppé."--A good many Herons may
be seen about the Islands at all times of the year; those that remain through the summer, though scattered
over all the Islands, are probably all non-breeding birds. I have seen them fishing along the
shore in Guernsey, Herm, Alderney, and the rocky islands north of Herm, but I have never seen
or heard of an egg being found in either of the Islands, nor have I ever seen anything that
bore the most remote resemblance to the nest of a Heron. Mr. MacCulloch, however, writes to me as
follows: "The Heron is said to breed occasionally on the Amfrocques and others of those small
islets north of Herm." Mr. Howard Saunders, Col. L'Estrange, and myself, however, visited all these
islets this last breeding season (1878), and though we saw Herons about fishing in the shallow
pools left by the tide, we could see nothing that would lead us to suppose that Herons ever bred
there, in fact, though Herons have been known to breed on cliffs by the sea; the Amfroques and
all the other little wild rocky islets are apparently the most unlikely places for Herons to
breed on. In Guernsey itself, however, it is more likely that a few
Herons formerly bred, and that there was once a small Heronry in the
Vale.

As Mr. MacCulloch writes to me, "There is a locality in the parish
of St. Samson, at the foot of Delancy Hill, in the vicinity of the
marshes near the Ivy Castle, formerly thickly wooded with old elms,
which bears the name of La Heronière.

It may have been a resort of Herons, but I am bound to say the name may have been derived from
a family called 'Heron,' now extinct."

It seems to me also possible that the family derived their name from being the proprietors of
the only Heronry in Guernsey. In the place mentioned by Mr. MacCulloch there are still a great many
elm trees quite big enough for Herons to build in, supposing they were allowed to do so, which
would not be likely at the present time.

The number of Herons in the Channel Islands seems to me to be considerably increased in the
autumn, probably by wanderers from the Heronries on the south coast of Devon and Dorset; on
the Dart and the Exe, and near Poole.

129. PURPLE HERON. Ardea purpurea, Linnaeus. French, "Heron pourpre."--The Purple Heron is an occasional
accidental wanderer to all the Islands. Mr. MacCulloch writes me word, "I have notes of that
beautiful bird, the Purple Heron, being killed here (Guernsey) in May, 1845, and in 1849; also
in Alderney on the 8th May, 1867." Curiously enough Mr. Rodd records the capture of one, a female,
near the Lizard, in Cornwall, late in April of the same year.[20]
When at Alderney this summer (1878) I was told that a Heron of some
sort, but certainly not a Common Heron, had been shot in that Island
about six weeks before my visit on the 27th of June.

Accordingly I went the next morning to the bird-stuffer, Mr. Grieve, and there I found the bird
and the person who shot it, who told me that it rose from some rather boggy ground at the
back of the town--that he shot at it and wounded it, but it flew on towards the sea; and as it
was getting rather late he did not find it till next morning, when he found it dead near the
place he had marked it down the night before.

It was in consequence of going to look up this bird that I found the Greenland Falcon before
mentioned, which had been shot by the same person. These are all the instances I have been able
to collect of the occurrence of the Purple Heron in the Channel Islands.

It

is, however, included in Professor Ansted's list, and marked as occurring in Guernsey, probably
on the authority of one of the earlier specimens mentioned by Mr. MacCulloch. There is no specimen
at present in the Museum.

130. SQUACCO HERON. Ardeola cornuta, Pallas.

French, "Heron crabier."--I have in my collection a Guernsey-killed specimen of the Squacco Heron,
which Mr. Couch informed me was shot in that island in the summer of 1867, and from inquiries
I have made I have no doubt this information is correct.

Mr. MacCulloch also writes to me to say, "A Squacco Heron was shot in the Vale Parish on the
14th of May, 1867, no doubt the one Couch sent to you." This was duly recorded by me in the 'Zoologist'
for 1872, and is, I believe, the first recorded instance of its occurrence
in the Channel Islands.

It is not mentioned in Professor Ansted's list, and there is no specimen in the Museum.

131. BITTERN. Botaurus stellaris, Linnaeus. French, "Heron grand butor," "Le grand butor."--Bitterns
were probably at one time more common in Guernsey than they are at present, drainage and better
cultivation having contributed to thin their numbers, as it has done
in England; and Mr. MacCulloch tells me that in his youth they were
by no means uncommon.

Of late years, however, they have become much more uncommon, though, as he adds, specimens have
been shot within the last three or four years. They seem now, however, to be confined to occasional
autumnal and winter visitants.

Mr. Couch says ('Zoologist' for 1871):--"On the 30th December, 1874, after a heavy fall of
snow, I had a female Bittern brought to me to be stuffed, shot in
the morning in the Marais; and on the 2nd of January following another
was shot on the beach near the Vale Church.

I had also part of some of the quill-feathers of a Bittern sent to
me for identification by Mrs. Jago, which had been killed in the Islands
the last week in January, 1879."

These are the most recent specimens I have been able to get any account of. The bird-stuffer in
Alderney (Mr. Grieve) and his friend told me they had shot Bitterns in that island, but did not
remember the date.

132. AMERICAN BITTERN. Botaurus lentiginosus, Montagu. French, "Heron lentigineux."[21]--This
occasional straggler from the New World has once, in its wanderings, reached the Channel Islands,
and was shot in Guernsey on the 27th October, 1870, and was duly recorded by me in the 'Zoologist'
for 1871; it is now in my collection.

This is the only occurrence of this bird in the Channel Islands yet recorded; but as the bird
occasionally crosses to this side of the Atlantic--several specimens having occurred in the
British Islands--it may possibly occur in Guernsey or some of the Channel Islands again. It
may, therefore, be as well to point out the principal distinctions between this bird and the
Common Bittern last mentioned. Between the adult birds there can be no mistake: the longer and
looser feathers on the fore part of the neck, which are slightly streaked and freckled with dark
brown, may be immediately distinguished from the much shorter and more regularly marked feathers
on the neck of the adult American Bittern. This distinction, however, is not perfectly clear
in young birds; but, at any age or in any state of plumage, the birds may be immediately distinguished
by the primary quill-feathers, which in the American Bittern are a uniform dark chocolate-brown
without any marks whatever, while in the Common Bittern they are much marked and streaked with
pale yellowish brown; this may be always relied on at any age or
in any plumage.

The American Bittern is not mentioned in Professor Ansted's list, no specimen having been found
in the Channel Islands till after the publication of his list, and of course there is no specimen
in the Museum.

133. LITTLE BITTERN. Ardetta minuta, Linnaeus.

French, "Heron Blongios."[22]--I only know of one occurrence of the Little Bittern in the
Channel Islands, and that was towards the end of November, 1876; and Mr. Couch writes to me as
follows on the 3rd of December: "A very good Little Bittern was caught alive in the Vale Road;
after being shot at and missed by two men, a young man in the road threw his pocket-handkerchief
at it and brought it in to me alive." Mr. Couch also informed me, when he forwarded me the specimen,
that it was a male by dissection. It is now in my collection, and is a young bird of the year.
I am rather sorry that as Mr. Couch got it alive he did not forward it to me in that state,
as, unless it had been wounded by the two shots, I have no doubt I should have been able to keep
it alive and observe its habits and changes of plumage as it advanced towards maturity.

134. SPOONBILL. Platalea leucorodia, Linnaeus. French, "Spatule blanche."--An occasional but by
no means common visitant to the Channel Islands. I have been able to hear of but very few instances
of its occurrence or capture of late years; Mr. Couch, however, writes me, in a letter dated
November, 1873, that a Spoonbill was brought to him to stuff. In all probability this is the
same bird recorded by Mr. Broughton in the 'Field' for October 25th, 1873, and in the 'Zoologist'
for January, 1874.

This is the only very recent specimen I have been able to trace;
but Mr. Broughton in his note mentions the occurrence of one about
twenty years before; and Mrs. Jago, who, when she was Miss Cumber,
did a good deal of bird-stuffing in Guernsey, told me she had stuffed
a Spoonbill for the Museum about twenty years ago.

This is probably the other one mentioned by Mr. Broughton, and he may have seen it in the Museum;
it is not there, however, now--either having become moth-eaten, and consequently thrown away,
or lost when the Museum changed its quarters across the market-place. Mr. MacCulloch does
not seem to consider the Spoonbill such a very rare visitant to the Channel Islands, as he writes
to me, "The Spoonbill is not near so rare a visitor as you seem to think; specimens were killed
here in 1844, and in previous years, and again in 1849, and in October, 1873.[23] They are seldom
solitary, but generally appear in small flocks. I forget whether it was in 1844 or 1849 that flocks
were reported to have been seen in various parts of England, even
as far west as Penzance.

I think that in one of these years as many as a dozen were seen here in a flock."

135. WHITE-FRONTED GOOSE. Anser albifrons, Scopoli. French, "Oie rieuse, ou à front blanc."--None
of the Grey Geese seem common in Guernsey; neither the Greylag, the Bean, nor the Pink-footed
Goose have, as far as I am aware, been obtained about the Islands, nor have I ever seen any either
alive or in the market, where they would be almost sure to be brought had they been shot by
any of the fishermen or gunners about the Islands. There is one specimen, however, of the White-fronted
Goose in the Museum, which I have reason to believe was killed in or near Guernsey; and this
is the only specimen of this Goose which, as far as I am aware, has been taken in the Islands.

The
White-fronted Goose is included in Professor Ansted's list, and marked as occurring in Guernsey. The
Greylag and the Bean Goose are also included in the list, the Greylag marked as occurring in
Guernsey and Sark, and the Bean as only in Guernsey; but no information beyond the letter marking
the locality is given as to either; and the only specimen in the Museum is the White-fronted
Goose above mentioned, neither of the others being represented there now, nor do I remember ever
having seen a specimen of either there.

136. BRENT GOOSE. Bernicla brenta, Brisson. French, "Oie cravant," "Bernache cravant."--The
Brent Goose is a regular winter visitant to all the Islands, varying, however, in numbers in
different years: sometimes it is very numerous, and affords good sport during the winter to
the fishermen, who generally take a gun in the boat with them as soon as the close season is over,
sometimes before. The flocks generally consist mostly of young birds of the year; the fully adult
birds, however, though fewer in number, are in sufficient numbers to make a very fair show.
There is no specimen at present in the Museum.

137. MUTE SWAN. Cygnus olor, Linnaeus. French, "Cygne tuberculé."--I do not believe this bird
has ever visited the Channel Islands in a thoroughly wild state, though it is pretty widely
spread over Europe; its range, however, being generally more to the east than the Channel Islands.
Mr. Couch, however, at page 4939 of the 'Zoologist' for 1874, records the occurrence of two
Mute Swans on the 7th of September at the Braye Pond, where they were shot. He also says that
"five others passed over the Island the same day; they were flying low, and, judging from their
colour, were young birds." As no one in the Islands keeps Swans, these were most probably a
family party that had strayed away from the Swannery at Abbotsbury, on the opposite coast of Dorset,
where some three hundred and fifty pairs still breed annually. I have myself seen as many six
hundred and thirty birds there, the hens sitting and the old males each resting quietly by the
nest, keeping guard over the female and the eggs.

The distance from the Abbotsbury Swannery, which is at the extreme
end of the Chesil Beach, in Dorsetshire, to Guernsey is nothing great
for Swans to wander; and they often, both old and young (after the
young are able to fly), wander away from their home as far as Exmouth
on one side and Weymouth Bay or the Needles on the other; and an expedition
to Guernsey would be little more than to one of these places, and
by September the young, which are generally hatched tolerably early
in June (I have seen a brood out with their parents on the water as
early as the 27th of May), would be perfectly able to wander, either
by themselves or with their parents, as far as the Channel Islands,
and, as at this time they rove about outside the Chesil Beach a good
deal, going sometimes a long way out to sea, there is no reason they
should not do so.

It seems a great pity that these fine birds should be shot when they wander across channel
to Guernsey, especially when it must be apparent to every one that they are really private property.
If the present long close season is to be continued, the Mute Swan might well be added to the somewhat
unreasonable list of birds in the Guernsey Sea-birds Act; at all events, Swans would be better
worth preserving than Plongeons or Cormorants.

138. HOOPER. Cygnus musicus, Bechstein.

French, "Cygne sauvage."--The Wild Swan or Hooper[25] is an occasional visitor to the Channel
Islands in hard winters, sometimes probably in considerable numbers, as Mrs. Jago (late Miss
Cumber) told me she had had several to stuff in a very hard winter about thirty years ago;
some of these were young birds, as she told me some were not so white as others. Mr. MacCulloch
also says that the Hooper visits the Channel Islands in severe winters; and the capture of
one is recorded by a correspondent of the 'Guernsey Mail and Telegraph' for 4th January, 1879,
as having been shot in that Island a few days before; it is said
to have been a young bird, grey in colour.

The writer of the notice, while distinguishing this bird from the Mute Swan, does not, however,
make it so clear whether it was really the present species or Bewick's Swan; from the measurement
of the full length (5 ft. 3 in.) given, however, it would appear that it was the present species,
as that would be full length for it, while Bewick's Swan would be about one-third less; some
description of the bill, however, would have been more satisfactory. It would certainly have
been interesting to have had some more particulars about this Swan,
as this last severe winter (1878 and 1879) has been very productive
of Swans in the south-west of England, the greater number of those
occurring in this county of Somerset, however, curiously enough, having
been Bewick's Swan, which is generally considered the rarer species.

Though Swans have been so exceptionally numerous in various parts of England this winter, the
above-mentioned is the only occurrence I have heard of in the Channel Islands.

139. BEWICK'S SWAN. Cygnus minor, Keys and Blasius. French, "Cygne de Bewick."[26]--I have very
little authority for including Bewick's Swan in my list of Guernsey birds; Mr. MacCulloch, however,
writes me word, "The Common Hooper has visited us in severe winters, and is certainly not the
only species of wild Swan that has been shot here." In all probability the other must have
been Bewick's Swan, which no doubt has occasionally occurred, perhaps
more frequently than is supposed, though not so frequently as the
Hooper.

Probably the difference between the two is not sufficiently known; it may, therefore, be as well
to point out the distinctions. Bewick's Swan is much smaller than the Hooper, but the great outward
distinction is, that in the Hooper the yellow at the base of the bill extends to and includes
the nostrils, whereas in Bewick's Swan the yellow occupies a very small portion of the base
of the bill, not extending so far as the nostrils: this is always sufficient to distinguish the
two, and is almost the only exterior distinction, but on dissection the anatomical structure,
especially of the trachea, shows material difference between the two.

Professor Ansted includes Bewick's Swan in his list, and marks it
as occurring in Guernsey.

There is, however, no specimen at present in the Museum.

140. WILD DUCK. Anas boschas, Linnaeus. French, "Canard sauvage."---The
Wild Duck is an occasional autumn and winter visitant.

I have never shot one myself in the Islands, but I have several times
seen Guernsey-killed ones in the market.

Though a visitant to all the Islands, I do not believe the Wild Duck breeds, at all events
at present, in any of them; Mr. MacCulloch, however, writes me word "The Wild Duck formerly
bred here;" and Mr. Gallienne, in his 'Notes' to Professor Ansted's list, says--"The Wild Duck
formerly bred in Guernsey rather abundantly, but it seldom does so now. Last year a nest was
found on one of the rocks near Herm." This would be about 1861. The rocks to the northward
of Herm do not seem to me a likely place for the Wild Duck to breed; however, there are one
or two places where they might possibly do so. A much more likely place would be in some of
the reed beds in the Grande Mare, or even amongst the heather and gorse above the high cliffs
on the south and east side of the Island,--a sort of place they are fond of selecting in this
county, Somerset, where they frequently nest amongst the heather high up in the hills, and
quite away from any water.

141. PINTAIL. Dafila acuta, Linnaeus. French, "Pilet," "Canard pilet." The Pintail is an occasional
autumn and Winter visitant, but never very common. I have one specimen, a female, killed in Guernsey
in November, 1871, and this Mr. Couch told me was the only one he had had through his hands
whilst in Guernsey; and Captain Hubbach writes me word that he shot one in Alderney in January,
1863. I have never seen it in the Guernsey market, like the Wild Duck and Teal.

142. TEAL. Querquedula crecca, Linnaeus. French, "Sarcelle d'hiver."--Like the Wild Duck, the
Teal is a regular but never numerous visitant to all the Islands. A few make their appearance
in the Guernsey market in October and November, and occasionally through the winter; but Teal
do not, as a rule, add much to the Guernsey sportsman's bag. In November, 1871, a friend of mine
told me that, after a long day's shooting from daylight till dark, he succeeded in bagging one
Teal and one Woodcock. I was rather glad I was not with him on this occasion, but chose the wild
shooting on the shore, where I got one or two Golden Plovers, and Turnstone and Ring Dotterel
enough for a pie--and, by-the-bye, a very good pie they made.

Professor Ansted includes the Teal in his list, and marks it as occurring in Guernsey and Sark.
There is no specimen in the Museum at present.

143. EIDER DUCK. Somateria mollissima, Linnaeus. French, "Canard eider," "Morillon eider."--The
Eider Duck occasionally straggles to the Channel Islands in the autumn, but very seldom, and
the majority of those that do occur are in immature plumage. I have one immature bird, killed
in Guernsey in the winter of 1876; and that is the only Channel Island specimen that has come under
my notice, and I think almost the only one Mr. Couch had had through his hands. The King Eider
is also included in the list, but no letter marking the distribution through the Islands is given,
and no information beyond the mere name, so I should think in all probability this must have
been a mistake, especially as I can find no other evidence whatever of its occurrence. There
is no specimen of either bird in the Museum.

144. COMMON SCOTER. Oidemia nigra, Linnaeus. French, "Macreuse," "Canard macreuse."--The Scoter
is a common autumn and winter visitant to all the Islands, generally making its appearance
in considerable flocks; sometimes, however, the flocks get broken
up, and single birds may then be seen scattered about in the more
sheltered bays.

Some apparently remain till tolerably late in the spring as Mr. MacCulloch
wrote me word that a pair of Scoters were killed in the last week
in April, 1878, off the Esplanade; he continues, "I had only a cursory
glance of them as I was passing through the market in a hurry, and
I am not sure they were not Velvet Scoters.

The male had a great deal of bright yellow about the nostrils." Mr. MacCulloch, however, told me afterwards,
when I asked him more about them, and especially whether he had seen any white about the wing,
that he had not seen any white whatever about them, so I have but little doubt that they were
Common Scoters, and he could hardly have failed to be struck by the conspicuous white bar on
the wing, by which the Velvet Scoter, both male and female, may immediately be distinguished from
the Common Scoter. As on the South Coast of Devon or Dorset, a few scattered Scoters--non-breeding
birds, of course--remain throughout the summer.

I have one, a male, killed off Guernsey on July 19th: this bird is in that peculiar state of
plumage which all the males of the Anatidae put on from about July to October, and in which many
of them look so like the females.

The Common Scoter is included in Professor Ansted's list, and marked
only as occurring in Guernsey.

There is no specimen of either bird in the Museum.

145. GOOSANDER. Mergus merganser, Linnaeus. French, "Grand Harle."--The Goosander is a regular
and tolerably numerous visitant to all the Islands, arriving in the autumn and remaining throughout
the winter.

The heavy-breaking seas of the Channel Islands do not appear to disturb the composure of these
birds in the least, for once, on my voyage home on the 16th November, 1871, I saw a small flock
of Goosanders off Herm, close to the steamer; they were swimming perfectly unconcerned in a heavy-breaking
sea, which made the steamer very lively, dipping first one and then the other paddle-box into the
water; as we got close up to them they rose, but only flew a short distance and pitched again
in the white water. They seem to me to keep the sea better than the Red-breasted Merganser--at
least, I have not seen them seek shelter so much in the different bays.

146. RED-BREASTED MERGANSER. Mergus serrator, Linnaeus. French, "Harle Huppé."--Like the Goosander,
the Red-breasted Merganser is a regular and by no means uncommon
autumn and winter visitant to the Channel Islands.

It seems to me, as I said before, that these birds seek the more sheltered bays during wild
squally weather more than the Goosanders do; not but what they can keep the sea well even
in bad weather, but I have never seen or shot the Goosander close to the shore seeking smooth
water, as I have done the Red-breasted Merganser. The greater number of Red-breasted Mergansers
killed in the Channel Islands which I have seen have been either females or males that had not assumed
the full adult plumage--in fact, in that state of plumage in which they are the "Dun Diver"
of Bewick; full-plumaged adult males do, however, occur as well as females and young males,
or males in a state of change.

Professor Ansted includes the Red-breasted Merganser in his list, but only marks it as occurring
in Guernsey. There are two specimens in the Museum--a male in full plumage and a female or young
male.

147.

SMEW. Mergus albellus, Linnaeus. French, "Harle piette," "Harle étoilé,"
"Petit harle huppé."--The Smew can only be considered an occasional
accidental autumnal visitant, and the few that do occur are generally
either females, young males, or males still in a state of change. Not otherwise the German seems to feel that if he cannot
build structures as beautiful as these glorious buildings in France that he will not leave
one of them standing.

Next to the Parthenon in Athens and St. Peter's in Rome, perhaps the world's best loved and
most admired building was the Cathedral of Rheims. There Joan of Arc crowned Charles IX; there
for centuries the noblest men of France had gone to receive their offices and their honours.
A building that belonged to the world. What treasures of beauty for the whole human race in
the thousand and more statues in the cathedral! How priceless the twelfth-century stained glass!
What paintings which have come down from the masters of Italy! Whoever visited the library
and the Cardinal's palace without exclaiming: "What beautiful missals! What illuminated manuscripts?"

Fully conscious of the fact that they were impotent to produce such treasures the Germans,
unable to get closer to the cathedral than four miles, determined to destroy them. Day after
day they bombed the noble cathedral. Gone now, too, the great stone roof! Fallen the flying
buttresses, ruined the chapels. Perished all the tapestries, the rugs and the laces. Water
stands in puddles on the floor. The cathedral is a blackened shell.

The victim of grievous ingratitude, King Lear, was turned out into the snow and hail by his
wicked daughters; and the white-haired old king wandered through the blackness of the night
beneath the falling hail. And, lo! the Cathedral of Rheims is a King Lear in architecture--broken,
wounded, exposed to the hails of the autumn and the snow of the winter, through the coarseness
and vandalism of the Germans.

The German Foreign Minister put it all in one word: "Let the neutrals cease their everlasting
chatter about the destruction of Rheims Cathedral. All the paintings, statues and cathedrals
in the world are not so much as one straw to the Germans over against the gaining of our goal
and the conquest of their land."

Never was a truer word spoken. The German lacks the imagination and the gift of the love of
the beautiful. He would prefer one bologna sausage factory and one brewery to the Parthenon,
with St. Peter's and Rheims Cathedral thrown in.

8. The German Sniper Who Hid Behind the Crucifix

For hundreds of years the French peasants have loved the crucifix. Many a beautiful woman carries
a little gold cross with the figure of Jesus fastened thereto, and from time to time draws
it out to press the crucifix to her lips. Even in the harvest fields and beside the road, travellers
find the carved figure of the Saviour lifted up to draw poor, ignorant and sinful men to His
own level.

One of the most glorious pieces of carving in France was wrought in walnut by a great sculptor
and lifted up on a tree in the midst of an estate, where the peasants, resting from their work,
could refresh their souls by love and faith and prayer.

One day last summer, during the Teuton advance, a German officer stood beneath that divine
figure. Mentally he marked the place. That night when the darkness fell a company of German
officers returned to that spot. One of them climbed up on the tree. He found that the carved
figure of Jesus was life size.

With the end of a rope a little platform was drawn up level with the foot of the crucifix.
Two ropes were fastened to the outstretched arms of the Saviour. Another rope was fastened
around the neck of Jesus, until the platform was made safe. Then a German sniper with his gun
climbed up on the platform. He laid his rifle upon the shoulders of the Divine Figure, hiding
his body behind that of Jesus. The German officer must have chuckled with satisfaction, for
he knew that he had found a screen behind which a murderer might hide, and the German villain
was quite right in his psychology.

It was true that the French soldiers loved that beautiful figure. To them the crucifix was
sacred. So beautiful were their ideals, so lofty their spirit, so pure and high their imagination,
that they were incapable of conceiving that a German could use the sacred crucifix as a screen
from which to send forth his murderous hail.

The green boughs of that tree hid the little puff of smoke. From time to time a French soldier
would fall dead with a hole through his forehead. Once a French officer threw up his hands
while the blood streamed from his mouth and he pitched forward dead.

At last the French soldiers understood. There was a sniper behind Christ's cross. The French
could have turned their cannon against that tree, but instead they simply kept below the trench
until the night fell. Then in the darkness some French boys took their lives in their hands
and crawled on hands and knees across No Man's Land. Lying on their backs they cut the wires
above their heads.

By some strange providence they dropped safely into the German trench and crawled ten yards
beyond. Then they climbed into the tree, removed that glorious crucifix with the carved figure,
brought it back in safety and at daybreak turned their cannon on the tree and blew the platform
to pieces.

Foul Huns had made a screen of that sacred figure, but the French were not willing to injure
their ideals by shooting the crucifix to pieces.

To-day all the world despises the Germans. Nothing is sacred to them. Their souls are dead
within them and when the soul dies, everything dies.

The German's body may live on for twenty years, but you might as well pronounce the funeral
address to-day, for the soul of Germany is dead. Nothing but a physical fighting machine now
remains.

Meanwhile, France lives. Never were her ideals so lofty and pure. That is why the world loves
France. She has kept faith with her ideals.

9. The Ruined Studio

I have in my possession several photographs of a ruined studio. Some twenty or thirty Germans
dashed into a little French village one day, and demanded at the point of their automatic pistols
the surrender by the women of their rings, jewelry, money and their varied treasure. At the
edge of the village was a simple little summer-house, in which one of the French artists had
his studio. He had been in that valley for three months, sketching, and working very hard.
Knowing that they had but a little time in which to do their work as vandals, the Huns started
to ruin the studio. With big knives they cut the fine canvases into ruins. They knocked down
the marbles, and the bronzes; the little bust from the hand of Rodin was smashed with a hammer.
The bronze brought from Rome was pounded until the face was ruined. One blow of the hammer
smashed the Chinese pottery, another broke the plates and the porcelain into fragments. Then
every corner of the room was defiled, and the pigs fled from their filthy stye. Across one
of the canvases the German officer wrote the words, "This is my trademark." And every other
part of the canvas was cut to ribbons with his knife. No more convincing evidence of the real
German character can possibly be found than these photographs of the interior of that ruined
studio.

Here we have the reason why the Kaiser himself, who knew the German through and through, called
his people Huns. Long ago the first Huns entered Italy. They found a city of marble, ivory,
and silver. They left it a heap and a ruin. They had no understanding of a palace; they did
not know what a picture meant, or a marble; they were irritated by the superiority of the Roman.
What they could not understand they determined to destroy. That is one of the reasons why all
the marbles and bronzes that we have in Italy are marred and injured. The head of Jupiter is
cracked; the Venus di Milo has no arms; Aphrodite has been repaired with plaster; Apollo has
lost a part of his neck and one leg. From time to time an old marble is dug up in a field,
where some ploughman has chanced upon the treasure. Owners hid their beautiful statues, ivories
and bronzes, to save them from the vandals. Unfortunately, the modern Huns rushed into the
French towns, riding in automobiles, and sculptors and painters had no time to hide their treasures.
The great cathedrals could not be hidden. The Kaiser in one of his recent statements boasted
that he had destroyed seventy-three cathedrals in Belgium and France. It is all too true. From
the beginning, the Cathedral of Rheims, dear to the whole world, and glorious through the associations
of Jeanne d'Arc, was doomed, because the Germans, having no treasure of their own, and incapable
of producing such a cathedral, determined that France should not have that treasure. The other
day, in Kentucky, a negro jockey came in at the tail end of a race, ten rods behind his rival.
That night, the negro bought a pint of whiskey, and determined to have vengeance, so he went
out at midnight, and cut the hamstrings of the beautiful horse that had defeated his own beast.
Now that is precisely the spirit that animated the German War Staff and the men that have devastated
France and Belgium, and every man who has witnessed these German crimes with his own eyes will
never be the same person again. His whole attitude towards the Hun is an attitude of horror
and revulsion. A certain noble anger burns within him, as burned that noble passion in Dante
against those criminals who spoiled Florence of her treasures.

10. Was This Murder Justified?

One raw, December day, in 1914, an American gentleman, widely known as traveller and correspondent,
was in a hospital in London, recovering from his wound, received in Belgium. He was startled
by the appearance of an old Belgian priest, and a young Belgian woman. The American author
was travelling in Belgium at the time of the German invasion. Quite unexpectedly he was caught
behind the lines, near Louvain. Having heard his statement, the German officer recognized its
truthfulness and sincerity, and insisted that this American scholar should be his guest at
the Belgian château of which he had just taken possession. The German had already shot the
Belgian owner, and one or two of the servants, who defended their master. To the horror and
righteous anger of the American, the German officer took his place at the head of the table,
waved the American to his seat, and ordered the young Belgian woman to perform her duties as
hostess. In that tense moment, it was a matter of life and death to disobey. That German officer
had his way, not only with the young Belgian wife, half dazed, half crazed, wholly broken in
spirit, but with the American whom he sent forward to Brussels.

Plunged into the midst of many duties in connection with Americans and refugees who had to
be gotten out of Belgium into England, this American author had to put aside temporarily any
plan for the release of that young Belgian woman held in bondage. Later, when he was wounded,
the American crossed to London for medical help. When the old Belgian priest and that young
woman stood at the foot of his bed in the hospital in London, all the events of that terrible
hour in the dining-room of the Belgian château returned, and once more he lived through that
frightful scene. The purpose of the visit soon became evident. The old Belgian priest stated
the problem. He began by saying that God alone could take human life since God alone could
give it. He urged that the sorrow of the young woman's present was as nothing in comparison
to the loss of her soul should she be guilty of infanticide. It was the plea of a man who lived
for the old ideals. His white hair, his gentle face, his pure disinterested spirit lent weight
to his words. Then came the statement of the young Belgian woman. She told the American author
of the dreadful days and weeks that followed after his departure, that every conceivable agony
was wrought upon her, and that now within a few months, she must have a child by that wicked
German officer. She cried out that the very babe would be unclean, that it would be born a
monster, that it was as if she was bringing into the world an evil thing, doomed in advance
to direst hell. That every day and every hour she felt that poison was running through her
veins. She turned upon the old priest, saying, "You insist that God alone gives life! Nay,
no, no, no! It was a German devil that gave me this life that now throbs within my body! And
every moment I feel that that life is pollution. German blood is poisoned blood. German blood
is like putrefaction and decay, soiling my innermost life." The young woman wept, prayed, plead,
and finally in her desperation cried out, "Then I decide for myself! The responsibility is
mine. I alone will bear it." And out of the hospital she swept with the dignity and beauty
of the Lady of Sorrows.

A year later, in Paris, the French judge and court cleared the young girl who choked to death
with a string the babe of the German officer who had attacked her. But since that time, all
France and Belgium and the lands where there are refugees are discussing the question--Where
does the right lie? Has the French mother, cruelly wounded, no right? And this foul thing forced
upon her a superior right? Which path for the bewildered girl leads to peace? Where does the
Lord of Right stand? What chance has a babe born of a beast, abhorred and despised, when it
comes into the world? The women of the world alone can answer this question.

IN FRANCE THE IMMORTAL!

IV

1. The Glory of the French Soldier's Heroism

As much as the German atrocities have done to destroy our confidence in the divine origin of
the human soul, the French soldiers have done to vindicate the majesty and beauty of a soul
made in the image of God.

I have seen French boys that were so simple, brave and modest in their courage, so beautiful
in their spirit, as to make one feel that they were young gods and not men. One day, into one
of the camps, came a lawyer from Paris. He brought the news of the revival of the Latin Quarter.
For nearly three years a shop near the Beaux Arts had been closed. During all this time the
French soldier had been at the front. When the first call came on that August day he put up
the wooden shutters, turned the key in the lock, and marched away to the trenches.

Said the lawyer: "I come from your cousin. The Americans are here in Paris. Your cousin says
that if you will give me the keys and authorize her to open the shop she will take your place.
She can recover your business, and perhaps have a little store of money for you when you have
your 'permission' or come home to rest. She tells me that she is your sole relative." The soldier
shook his head, saying: "I never expect to come home. I do not want to come home. France can
be freed only by men who are ready to die for her. I do not know where the key is. I do not
know what goods are in the shop. For three years I have had no thought of it. I am too busy
to make money. There are other things for me--fighting, and perhaps dying. Tell my cousin that
she can have the shop." Then the soldier saluted and started back towards his trench. "Wait!
Wait!" cried the attorney. Then he stooped down, wrote hurriedly upon his knee, a little paper
in which the soldier authorized his cousin to carry on the business, in his name. Scrawling
his name to the document, the soldier ran towards the place where his heart was--the place
of peril, heroism and self-sacrifice.

This was typical of the thousands of soldiers at the front, for French soldiers suffer that
the children may never have to wade through this blood and muck. The foul creature that has
bathed the world in blood must be slain forever. With the full consent of the intellect, of
the heart and the conscience, these glorious French boys have given themselves to God, to freedom,
and to France.

2. Why the Hun Cannot Defeat the Frenchman

One morning in a little restaurant in Paris I was talking with a British army-captain. The
young soldier was a typical Englishman, quiet, reserved, but plainly a little excited. He had
just been promoted to his captaincy and had received one week's "permission" for a rest in
Paris. We had both come down from near Messines Ridge.

"Of course," said the English captain, "the French are the greatest soldiers in the world."

"Why do you say that?" I answered. "What could be more wonderful than the heroism, the endurance
of the British at Vimy Ridge? They seem to me more like young gods than men."

To which the captain answered: "But you must remember that England has never been invaded.
Look at my company! Their equipment is right from helmet to shoe, so perfectly drilled are
they that the swing of their right legs is like the swing of one pendulum. I will put my British
company against the world. Still I must confess this, that, so far as I know, no English division
of fifteen thousand men ever came home at night with more than five thousand prisoners.

"But look at the French boys at Verdun! As for clothes, one had a helmet, another a hat, or
a cap, or was bareheaded. One had red trousers, one had gray trousers and one had fought until
he had only rags left. When they got within ten rods of the German trench they were so anxious
to reach the Boche that they forgot to shoot and lifted up their big bayonets, while they shouted,
'For God and France!'

"That night when that French division came back ten thousand strong they brought more than
ten thousand German prisoners with them to spend the night inside of barbed wire fences.

"The reason is this: These Frenchmen fought for home and fireside. They fought against an invader
who had murdered their daughters and mothers. The Huns will never defeat France. Before that
could be done," exclaimed the English captain, "there would not be a man left in France to
explain the reason for his defeat."

3. "I Am Only His Wife"

Human life holds many wonderful hours. Love, marriage, suffering, trouble, are crises full
of romance and destiny, but I question whether any man ever passed through an experience more
thrilling than the hour in which he stands at the Charing Cross or Waterloo Station in London
or in the great station in Paris and watches the hospital trains come in, loaded with wounded
soldiers brought in after a great battle.

Often fifty thousand men and women line the streets for blocks, waiting for the trains. Slowly
the wounded boys are lifted from the car to the cot. Slowly the cot is carried to the ambulance.
The nurses speak only in whispers. The surgeons lift the hand directing them. You can hear
the wings of the Angel of Death rustling in the air.

When the automobile carrying two wounded boys moves down the street, the men and women all
uncover while you hear whispered words, "God bless you!" from some father or mother who see
their own son in that boy.

Now and then some young girl with streaming eyes timidly drops a flower into the front of the
ambulance--pansies for remembrance and love--upon a boy whom she does not know, while she thinks
of a boy whom she knows and loves who is somewhere in the trenches of France.

One morning a young nurse in the hospital in Paris received a telegram. It was from a young
soldier, saying: "My pal has been grievously wounded. He is on the train that will land this
afternoon. He has a young wife and a little child. You will find them at such and such a street.
I do not know whether he will live to reach Paris. Can you see that they are at the station
to meet him? That was his last whispered request to me."

That afternoon at five o'clock, with her face pressed between the iron bars, a young French
woman, with a little boy in her arms, was looking down the long platform. Many, many cots passed
by, and still he did not come. At last she saw the nurse. The young wife did not know that
her soldier husband had died while they lifted him out of the car.

The young nurse said that she never had undertaken a harder task than that of lifting the boy
in her own arms and leading the French girl to that cot, that she might know that henceforth
she must look with altered eyes upon an altered world. A few minutes passed by and then a miracle
of hope had happened.

"I saw her," said the nurse, "with one hand upon his hair and the other stretched upward as
she exclaimed: 'I am only his wife, France is his mother! I am only his wife, France is his
mother! I give him to France, the mother that reared him!'"

4. A Soldier's Funeral in Paris

The two boys were incredibly happy. Two mornings before they had landed in Paris. What a reception
they had had in the soldiers' club from the splendid French women! How good the hot bath had
seemed! Clean linen, a fresh shave, a good breakfast, a soft cot, plenty of blankets, twenty-four
hours' sleep, and they had wakened up new men. The first morning they walked along the streets,
looking into the shop windows; in the afternoon one of the ladies took them to a moving picture
show, and now on the second day here they were, at a little table before the café in one of
the best restaurants in the Latin Quarter, with good red wine and black coffee, and plenty
of cigarettes, and not even the boom of cannon to disturb their conversation. Strange that
in three days they could have passed from the uttermost of hell to the uttermost of safety
and peace. "These are good times," said one of the boys, "and we are in them."

Then they heard a policeman shouting. Looking up, they saw a singular spectacle. Just in front
of them was a poor old hearse drawn by two horses, whose black trappings touched the ground.
Shabbier hearse never was seen. Strangest of all, there was only a little, thin, black-robed
girl walking behind the hearse. There were no hired mourners as usual. There was no large group
of friends walking with heads bared in token of reverence; there was no priest; no carriages
followed after. Saddest of all, there was not even a flower. What could these things mean?
How strange that when they were so happy this little woman could be so sad.

Suddenly one of the soldier boys arose. He stepped into the street and looked into the hearse.
There he saw these words: "A soldier of France." He began to question the woman. Lifting her
veil, he saw a frail girl, and while the traffic jam increased she told her story. The soldier
had been wounded at the Battle of the Marne. He was one of the first to be brought to Paris.
He never walked again. "I am very poor; I have only one franc a day. We have no friends. I
borrowed money for the hearse."

The boy returned to his fellows. "Fall in line, boys!" he shouted. "Here is a soldier of France.
This little girl has taken care of him for three years on one franc a day. Line up, everybody,
and tell the men to swallow their coffee and wine and fall into the procession. Go into the
shops and say that a soldier of France lies here." When that hearse began to move there were
twenty men and women walking as mourners behind the body. Two soldier boys walked beside the
frail little girl with her heavy crêpe. As the soldiers walked along beside the hearse the
procession began to grow. On and on for two long miles this slowly moving company increased
in number until one hundred were in line, and when they came into God's Acre they buried the
poor boy as if he were a king coming in with trumpets from the battle. For he was a soldier
of France.

5. The Old Book-Lover of Louvain

Among the fascinating pursuits of life we must make a large place for the collection of old
books, old paintings, old missals and curios. Certain cities, like Venice, Florence, Rome,
Naples, and Madrid, have been for a thousand years like unto the Sargasso Sea in which beautiful
things have drifted.

Fifty years ago, men of leisure began to collect these treasures. Some made their way into
Egypt and Palestine, and there uncovered temples long buried in sands and ruins and all covered
with débris. From time to time old missals were found in deserted monasteries, marbles were
digged up in buried palaces. Men came back from their journeys with some lovely terra cotta,
some ivory or bronze, some painting by an old master, whose beauty had been hidden for centuries
under smoke and grime. The enthusiasm of the collectors exceeds the zest of men searching for
gold and diamonds amid the sands of South Africa.

Fifty years ago a young scholar of Louvain won high praise because of his skill in dating and
naming old pictures and manuscripts. When ten years had passed by, this scholar's name and
fame were spread all over Europe. Many museums in different countries competed for his services.

The time came when the heads of galleries in London and Paris and Rome sent for this expert
to pass upon some art object. During the fifty years this scholar came to know every beautiful
treasure in Europe.

In the old castles of Austria, in a monastery of Bohemia, in the house of an ancient Italian
family, in certain second-hand bookstores, in out-of-the-way towns he found treasures as precious
as pearls and diamonds raked out of the muck-heap.

When death took away his only son and left his little grandchildren dependent upon himself
the old book-lover looked forward serenely into the future. He knew that every year his treasures
were growing more and more valuable. Living in his home in Louvain he received from time to
time visits from experts, who came in from all the cities of the world to see his treasures,
and if possible, to buy some rare book.

Then, in August, 1914, came the great catastrophe, as came the explosion of Vesuvius that buried
Pompeii under hot ashes and flaming fire.

One morning the old scholar was startled by the noise and confusion in the street. Looking
down from his window he saw German soldiers, German horsemen, German cannon. He beheld women
and children lined up on the sidewalk. He saw German soldiers assault old men. He saw them
carrying the furniture, rugs and carpets out of the houses. He saw the flames coming out of
the roofs of houses a block away.

A moment later an old university professor pounded upon his door and called out that they must
flee for their lives. There was only time to pick out one satchel and fill it with his precious
manuscripts and costly missals. Then the two old scholars fled into the street with the grandchildren.
Fortunately a Belgian driving a two-wheeled coal cart was passing by. Into the cart climbed
the little grandchildren. Carefully the satchel filled with its treasures was also lifted into
place.

At that moment a German shell exploded beside the cart. When the old book-lover recovered consciousness
the cart was gone, the grandchildren were dead and of all his art treasures there was left
only one little book upon which some scholar of the twelfth century had toiled with loving hands.

Carried forward among the refugees several hours later, Belgian soldiers lifted the old man
into a train that was carrying the wounded down to Havre. In his hand the collector held the
precious book. Excitement and sorrow had broken his heart. His mind also wandered. He was no
longer able to understand the cosmic terror and blackness. A noble officer, himself wounded,
put his coat under the old man's head and made a pillow and bade him forget the German beast,
the bomb shells, the blazing city. But all these foul deeds and all dangers now were as naught
to the old man.

"See my little book," he said. "How beautiful the lettering! Why, upon this book, as upon a
ship, civilization sailed across the dark waters of the Middle Ages. Look at this book of beauty.
The ugliness of the tenth century is dead. The cruelty and the slavery of bloody tyrants is
dead also. The old cannon are quite rusted away. But look at this! Behold, its beauty is immortal!
Everything else dies. Soon all the smoke and blood will go, but beauty and love and liberty
will remain."

And then lifting the little book the old collector of Louvain pressed his lips to the vellum
page, bright with the blue and crimson and gold of seven hundred years, and in a moment passed
to the soul's summer land, where no shriek of German shells rends the air, where wicked Germans
have ceased from troubling and where the French and Belgians, worn by the cruelty of the Huns,
are now at rest and peace.

6. A Vision of Judgment in Martyred Gerbéviller

To-day everybody knows the story of Gerbéviller, the martyred.

To the northwest is that glorious capital of Lorraine, Nancy. Farther northwest are Verdun
and Toul, with our American boys. The region round about the martyred town is a region of rich
iron ores.

Some years ago, Germany found herself at bay, by reason of the threatened exhaustion of her
iron mines in Alsace-Lorraine. The news that France had uncovered new beds of iron ore stirred
Germany to a frenzy of envy and longing.

High grade iron ore meant a new financial era for France. The exhaustion of Germany's iron
mines meant industrial depression, and finally a second and third rate position. Rather than
lose her place Germany determined to go to war with France and Belgium and grab their iron
mines. To break down resistance on the part of the French people, the Germans used atrocities
that were fiendish beyond words. The richer the province she wished to steal, the more terrible
her cruelties.

At nine o'clock in the morning on August 27, General Clauss and 15,000 soldiers entered Gerbéviller.
Ten miles to the south was the remainder of the German army, utterly broken by the French attack.
Clauss had been sent north to dig his trenches until the rest of the German army could retreat.

Every hour was precious. The Germans remained in the little town from 9 A. M. until 12:30 P.
M. They found in the village thirty-one hundred women, girls and children, fifteen old men
(the eldest ninety-two), one priest and one Red Cross ambulance driver. Even the little boys
and men under seventy had gone to the front to dig ditches and carry water to the French.

It took the Germans only two and one-half hours to loot all the houses and load upon their
trucks the rugs, carpets, chairs, pictures, bedding, with every knife and fork and plate. At
half-past eleven General Clauss was in the Mayor's house, when the German colonel came in and
reported that everything in the houses had been stripped and that they were ready to begin
the firing of the buildings.

The aged wife of the secretary to the Mayor told me this incident:

"We find no weapons in the houses, and we find only these fifteen old men, one Red Cross boy,
and this priest," said the colonel.

"Line up the old men then and shoot them," shouted General Clauss. "Take the priest as a prisoner
to do work in the trenches."

The old men were lined up on the grass. General Clauss himself gave the signal to fire. Two
German soldiers fired bullets into each one of the old men.

One of the heart-broken onlookers was the village priest. The Germans carried him away as prisoner
and made him work as a common labourer; through rain and sun, through heat and snow, he toiled
on, digging ditches, carrying burdens, working eighteen hours a day, eating spoiled food that
the German soldiers would not touch, until finally tuberculosis developed and he was sick unto
death. Then the Germans released him as a refugee, so the priest returned to Gerbéviller to die.

Then came the anniversary of the murder of the fifteen old men and of the one hundred and two
women, girls and children. On the anniversary day of the martyrdom the noble Governor of the
province assembled the few survivors for a memorial service about the graves of the martyrs.

Knowing that the priest would never see another anniversary of that day the Prefect asked the
priest to give the address at the memorial service. No more dramatic scene ever occurred in
history. At the beginning the priest told the story of the coming of the Germans, the looting
of the houses, the violation of the little girls, the collecting of the dead bodies. Suddenly
the priest closed his eyes, and all unconsciously he lived the scene of those three and a half
hours.

"I see our fifteen heroes standing on the grass. I see the German soldiers lifting up their
rifles. I hear General Clauss cursing and shouting the command to fire.

"I see you, Thomas; a brutal soldier tears your coat back. He puts his rifle against your heart.
When you sink down I see your hands come together in prayer.

"I see you, François. I see the two big crutches on which you lean. You are weary with the
load of ninety years. I hear your granddaughter when she sobs your name, and I see your smile,
as you strive to encourage her.

"I see you, Jean. How happy you were when you came back with your wealth to spend your last
years in your native town! How kind you were to all our poor. Ah! Jean, you did us good and
not evil, all the days of your life with us!

"I see you, little Marie. You were lying upon the grass. I see your two little hands tied by
ropes to the two peach trees in your mother's garden. I see the little wisp of black hair stretched
out under your head. I see your little body lying dead. With this hand of mine upon that little
board, above your grave, I wrote the words, 'Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.'

"And yonder in the clouds I see the Son of Man coming in His glory with His angels. I see the
Kaiser falling upon Gerbéviller. I see Clauss falling upon our aged Mayor. But I also see God
arising to fall upon the Germans. Berlin, with Babylon the Great, is fallen. It has become
a nest of unclean things. There serpents dwell. Woe unto them that offend against my little
ones. For, lo, a millstone is hanged about their necks and they shall be drowned in the sea
with Satan."

The excitement was too much for the priest. That very night he died. Henceforth he will be
numbered among the martyrs of Gerbéviller.

7. The Return of the Refugees

The return of the refugees to Belgium and France holds the essence of a thousand tragedies.
From the days of Homer down to those of Longfellow, with his story of Evangeline, literature
has recounted the sad lot of lovers torn from one another's arms and all the rest of their
lives going every whither in search of the beloved one, only to find the lost and loved when
it was too late.

But nothing in literature is so tragic as the events now going on from week to week in the
towns on the frontier of Switzerland.

When the Germans raped Belgium and northern France they sent back to the rear trenches the
young women and the girls, and now, from time to time, those girls, all broken in health, are
released by the Germans, who send them back to their parents or husbands.

Multitudes of these girls have died of abuse and cruelty, but others, broken in body and spirit,
are returning for an interval that is brief and heart-breaking before the end comes.

Three weeks ago an old friend returned from his Red Cross work in France. By invitation of
a Government official he visited a town on the frontier through which the refugees released
by Germany were returning to France.

It seemed that during the month of September, 1914, the Germans had carried away a number of
girls and young women in a village northeast of Lunéville. When the French officials finished
their inquiry as to the poor, broken creatures returning to France they found a French woman,
clothed in rags, emaciated and sick unto death. In her arms she held a little babe a few weeks
old. Its tiny wrists were scarcely larger than lead pencils. The child moaned incessantly.
The mother was too thin and weak to do more than answer the simple questions as to her name,
age, parents, and husband.

Moved with the sense of compassion, the French official soon found in his index the name of
her husband, the number of his company and telegraphed to the young soldier's superior officer,
asking that the boy might be sent forward to the receiving station to take his wife back to
some friend, since the Germans had destroyed his village. By some unfortunate blunder the officials
gave no hint of the real facts in the case.

Filled with high hope, burning with enthusiasm, exhaling a happiness that cannot be described,
the bronzed farmer-soldier stepped down from the car to find the French official waiting to
conduct him to one of the houses of refuge where his young wife was waiting.

My American Red Cross friend witnessed the meeting between the girl and her husband. When the
fine young soldier entered the room he saw a poor, broken, spent, miserable creature, too weak
to do more than whisper his name. When the young man saw that tiny German babe in his young
wife's arms he started as if he had been stung by a scorpion. Lifting his hands above his head,
he uttered an exclamation of horror. In utter amazement he started back, overwhelmed with revulsion,
anguish and terror.

Gone--the beauty and comeliness of the young wife! Gone her health and allurement! Perished
all her loveliness! Her garments were the garments of a scarecrow. Despite all these things
the girl was innocent. But she realized her husband's horror and mistook it for disgust. She
pitched forward unconscious upon the floor before her husband could reach her.

The history of pain contains no more terrible chapter. That night the dying girl told the French
officials and her husband the crimes and indignities to which she had been subjected. Two other
babes had been born under German brutality, and both had died, even as this infant would die,
and when a few days later her husband buried her he was another man. The iron in him had become
steel. The blade of intellect had become a two-edged sword. His strength had become the strength
of ten. He decided not to survive this war. Going back to the front, he consecrated his every
day to one task--to kill Germans and save other women from the foulest degenerates that have
ever cursed the face of the earth.

8. An American Knight in France

Coming around the corner of the street in a little French village near Toul, I beheld an incident
that explained the all but adoring love given to our American boys by the French children.
The women and the girls of that region had suffered unspeakable things at the hands of the
German swine. Photographs were taken of the dead bodies of girls that can never be shown. The
terror of the women at the very approach of the German was beyond all words. The very words
"Les Boches" send the blood from the cheeks of the children. The women of the Dakotas on hearing
that the Sioux Indians were on the war-path with their scalping knives were never so terrified
as the French girls are on hearing the German soldiers are on the march. Even the little children
have black rings under their eyes, with a strained, tense expression as they stand tremulous
and ready to run.

On the sidewalk near me was a little French girl of about six, with her little brother, perhaps
four years of age. Suddenly around the corner came an American boy in khaki. He was swinging
forward with step sure and alert. The children turned, but there was no terror in their eyes
and no fear in their hearts. They did not know the American soldier; never before had they
seen his face, but his khaki meant safety. It meant a shield lifted between the German monster
and themselves. Forgetting everything, the little French girl started on a run towards the
American soldier, while her little brother came hobbling after. She ran straight to the American
boy, flung her arms around his legging, rubbed her cheek against his trousers and patted his
knee with her little hands. A moment later when her little brother came up the American boy
stooped down, lifted the boy and girl into his arms, and while they were screaming with delight
carried them across to a little shop, and found for them two tiny little cakes of chocolate,
the only sweet that could be had. The French children understand.

The German motto was: "Frightfulness and terrorism are the very essence of our new warfare."

Pershing's charge was: "You will protect all property, safeguard all lives, lift a shield above
the aged, be most courteous to the women, most tender and gentle to the children."

In France our boys have lifted a shield above the poor and the weak, and, having given service,
they are receiving a degree of love beyond measure; but there is no danger that they will be
spoiled by the adulation of the French women and children, who rank them with the knights and
the heroes of old.

9. An American Soldier's Grave in France

One August morning I was in the wheat fields near Roye. Somewhere in that field the body of
a noble American boy was lying. He was a graduate of the University of Virginia; his mother
and his sister had a host of friends in my old home city, Chicago. Guided by a white-haired
priest, out in the wheat we found at last a little mound with a part of a broken airplane lying
thereupon. I pulled the rest of his machine upon his grave and learned that when the French
boys picked him up they found that four explosive bullets had struck him while flying in the
air after his victory over many German enemies.

With my knife I cut a sheaf of golden grain and an armful of scarlet poppies and said a prayer
for the boy and his mother and his sister.

Standing there in the rain I wrote a letter to those who loved him, saying: "When you see this
head of wheat, say to yourself 'One grain going into the ground shall in fifteen summers ripen
into bread enough to feed sixteen hundred millions of the family of men.' When you look at
this pressed poppy, say, 'His blood like red rain went to the root to make the flowers crimson
and beautiful for all the world; soon the fields of France shall wave like a Garden of God,
and peace and plenty shall dwell forever there. "Without shedding of blood there is no remission."
Wine means the crushing of the grapes. At great price our fathers bought Liberty.'"

Two thousand years ago Cicero, sobbing above the dead body of his daughter Tullia, exclaimed:
"Is there a meeting place for the dead?" What becomes of our soldier boys who died on the threshold
of life? This is life's hardest problem. Where is that young Tullia so dear to that gifted
Roman orator? Where is that young musician Mozart? Where is young Keats? And where is Shelley?
And where are young McConnell and Rupert Brooke and young Asquith? And ten thousand more of
those young men with genius. Where also is that young Carpenter of Nazareth, dead at thirty
years of age?

The answer is in this: They have passed through the black waters and have come into the summer
land. There they have been met by the heroes coming out with trumpets and banners to bring
them into a world unstained by the smoke and din of battle. There they will write their books,
invent their tools, complete their songs and guide the darkling multitudes who come in out
of Africa, out of the islands of the sea, into the realm of perfect knowledge, love and peace.

10. "These Flowers, Sir, I Will Lay Them Upon My Son's Grave"

Last August, at an assembly in Paris, Ambassador Sharp held a little company spellbound, while
he related several incidents of his investigations in the devastated region near Roye. One
afternoon the captain stopped his military automobile upon the edge of what had once been a
village. Surveyors were tracing the road and making measurements in the hope of establishing
the former location of the cellar and the house that stood above it. An old gray-haired Frenchman
had the matter in charge. He had lost the cellar of his house. Also, the trees that had stood
upon his front sidewalk, also his vines and fruit trees. His story as stated by Ambassador
Sharp was most pathetic. The old man had retired from business to the little town of his childhood.
When it became certain that the Germans would take the village, the man pried up a stone slab
in the sidewalk and buried his money, far out of sight. A long time passed by. When the Hindenburg
plans were completed, the Germans made their retreat. Among other refugees who returned was
the aged Frenchman. To his unbounded amazement the old man could not locate the site of his
old home. In bombarding the little village, the Germans dropped huge shells. These shells fell
into the cellar, and blew the brick walls away. Other shells fell in the front yard, and blew
the trees out by the roots. Later other shells exploding blew dirt back into the other excavations.
Little by little, the ground was turned into a mass of mud. Not a single landmark remained.
Finally the old man conceived the idea of beginning back on the country road, and measuring
what he thought would have been the distance to his garden. But even that device failed him.
For the huge shells had blown the stone slab into atoms, scattered his buried treasure, and
left the man in his old age penniless and heart-broken.

Long ago Dumas represented the man who had taken too much wine as trying in vain to enter his
own home, explaining to his inebriated friend that the keyhole was lost. But think of a cellar
that is lost! Think of shade trees, whose very roots have disappeared! Think of a lovely little
French garden with its roses and vines, and fruit trees, all gone! "Why, the very well was
with difficulty located," said the Ambassador. But after all, the loss of buried treasure that
could never be found is only a faint emblem of the loss of human bodies and human minds. Think
of the soldiers who have returned to find that the young wife or daughter whom they loved has
disappeared forever! And think of the wives and sweethearts who have received word from their
officers that the great shell exploded and killed the lover, but that no fragment of his body
could be found! During one day Mr. Chamberlain and myself were driven through twenty-four series
of ruins, that once had been towns and villages, but where there was nothing left but cellars
filled with twisted iron and blackened rafters. Already, men are anticipating the hour of victory
and talking about the reconstruction of the devastated regions, the enforced service of a million
German factories, building up what once they had torn down. But the restoring of houses, the
restoration of factory and schoolhouse, of church and gallery, represent a material recovery.
But the other day, a French woman was invited before the general who decorated the widow and
praised her, returning to her the thanks of France, in that her last and seventh son had just
been killed. Her response was one of the most moving things in history. "I have given France
my all. These flowers, ah, sir, I have but one use for them. I will take them out, and lay
them on my son's grave."

11. The Courage of Clemenceau

One Sunday afternoon, last August, in Paris, Alexandre, head of the Fine Arts Department of
the Government, brought me an invitation from Rodin to visit his studio. We found the successor
to Michael Angelo turning over in his hand an exquisite little head of Minerva, goddess of
wisdom, carved with the perfection of a lily or a rose. "He is always studying something,"
exclaimed the author. But what Rodin wanted us to see was his head of Clemenceau. When the
covering was lifted, there stood the very embodiment of the man who is supreme in France to-day,--Clemenceau.
The sculptor's face kindled and lighted up. "The lion of France!" How massive the features!
How glorious the neck and the shoulders! Clemenceau makes me think of a stag, holding the wolves
at bay, while his herd finds safety in flight. He makes me think of the lion, roaring in defence
of his whelps. Our descendants will say, of a truth there were giants in those days, and among
the giants we must make a large place for Clemenceau.

The invincible courage of Clemenceau is in the challenge he has just flung out to the enemies
of France. Reduced to simple terms it comes to this,--"It is said that the Germans can get
within bombing distance of Paris, or reach the capital, providing they are willing to pay the
price. Well,--the Allies can break through the German line and gain the Rhine, providing they
are willing to pay the price. To destroy Paris means a price of 750,000 Germans at least. The
probabilities are that so heavy a price would mean a political revolution in Germany. But what
if Ludendorff gets to Paris? Rome was twice destroyed, and later the city of brick was rebuilt
as a city of marble. Nearly fifty years ago the people of Paris destroyed their own city, at
an expense of hundreds of millions of francs. The motive back of the destruction was the desire
to replace an old and ugly city by a new and the most beautiful city in the world. Fire destroyed
Chicago, intellect rebuilt it,--earthquake and flame levelled San Francisco, courage restored
the ruins. Enemies may destroy Paris, genius and French art and skill and industry and will,
will replace it. Our eyes are fixed on the goal, namely, the crushing of Prussianism. What
if Paris must decrease? It will only mean that civilization in France, and humanity, will increase."
Reduced to the simplest terms, that is the substance of Clemenceau's appeal. Never was there
courage more wonderful. Not even Leonidas at Thermopylæ ever breathed nobler sentiments. That
is why Paris is safe to-day. That is why France is secure. That is why we await with confidence
and quietness the next great offensive for the Germans.

In her darkest hour what France and the world needed was a hero, a man of oak and rock, a great
heart, a lion,--and the world found such a man in Clemenceau. Nothing fascinates the listeners
like tales of courage. Not even stories of love and eloquence have such a charm for children
and youth. Many of us remember that in our childhood the crippled soldier of the Civil War
became a living college, teaching bravery to the boys of the little town. For months Clemenceau
has been going up and down France, heartening the people. This Prime Minister with his great
massive head, the roaring voice, the clenched fist, is an exhilarating spectacle. That hero
of Switzerland, William Tell, left behind him a tradition that it meant much to him to waken
each morning and find Mont Blanc standing firm in its place. Not otherwise all patriots, soldiers,
and lovers of their fellow men to-day can look on the great French statesman and patriot and
gather comfort and courage from the fact that he still stands firmly in his place.

OUR BRITISH ALLIES

V

1. "Gott Strafe England"--"and Scotland"

At the crossroads near the city of Ypres is a sign-board giving the directions and the distances
to various towns. One day the Germans captured that highway.

There was a man in the company who had lived in some German-American city of the United States.
He knew that but for England Germany would have gotten through to the Channel towns and looted
Paris. Climbing up on the sign-board that German-American wrote in good plain English these
words: "God ---- England!"

That afternoon the Australian and the New Zealand army pushed the Germans back and recaptured
the highway. Among other soldiers was a Scotsman named Sandy.

He read the sign, "God ---- England!" with ever increasing anger. Finally he flung his arms
and legs around the sign-post, pulled himself up to the top and, while his companions watched
him, they saw him do a most amazing thing.

They were cheering him because they expected him to rub out the word "England." But not Sandy!
Holding on by his left hand, with his right Sandy added to the words "God ---- England!" these
words, "and Scotland."

He felt that it was an outrage that Scotland should be overlooked in any good thing. Blessed
was the people who had won the distinction of being hated by the German, and therefore Sandy
added the words "and Scotland"!

Now Scotland deserved that high praise. When the historian comes to write the full story of
this great war it will make a large place for the words "and Scotland." Wonderful the heroism
of the British army! Marvellous their achievements! But who is at the head of it? A great Scotsman,
Sir Douglas Haig.

What stories fill the pages of the achievements of English sailors ever since the days of Nelson,
standing on the deck of the Victory, down to the battle of Jutland! But that gallant Scot,
Admiral Beatty, holds the centre of the stage to-day. There came a critical moment also when
a man of intellect and a great heart must represent Great Britain in her greatest crisis in
the United States, and in that hour they sent a Scotsman, Arthur James Balfour, philosopher,
metaphysician, theologian, statesman, diplomat and seer.

And what shall one more say save that the finances of this war have been controlled by a Scotch
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and her railways organized by a Scotch inventor. Wonderful the
achievements of England--that "dear, dear land." Marvellous the contribution of Wales, through
men like the Prime Minister, Lloyd George!

Who can praise sufficiently the heroes of Canada, Australia and New Zealand? In Ireland, for
the moment, things are in a muddle. "What is the trouble with the Emerald Isle?" was the question,
to which the Irishman made instant reply: "Oh, in South Ireland we are all Roman Catholics,
and in North Ireland we are all Protestants, and I wish to heaven we were all agnostics, and
then we could live together like Christians."

But Ireland will soon iron out her troubles. To the achievements of the various people of the
great British Empire let us make a large place for the contributions of Scotland. The Germans
hate with a deadly hatred any country and any race that has stopped them in their headlong
career towards crime.

But the next time that a German-American has gone back to Berlin and has reached the western
front and puts up a sign reading "Gott strafe England" let him not fail to add these words,
"and Scotland."

2. "England Shall Not Starve"

Despite all warnings, rumours, and alarms, no dire peril known to passengers disturbed our
voyage. The nearest approach came on a morning when the ship was two hundred miles off the
coast of Ireland.

The steamer was making a letter S and constantly zigzagging, when suddenly the lookout called
down that there was a rowboat dead ahead. With instant decision the officer changed the ship's
course and we passed the life-boat a half mile upon our right.

The usual rumour started up and down the deck that there were dead bodies in the boat, but
the petty officer answered my question by saying that it was 2,000 lives against one possible
life that every drifting boat must be looked upon as a German decoy; that if the steamer stopped
to send sailors with a life-boat to investigate it would simply give a German submarine a chance
to come up with torpedoes. At that very moment one of the men beside the gun sighted a periscope
and a moment later the gun roared and then boomed a second time and then a third. Because the
object disappeared, all passengers said it was a submarine, but the officers said it was a
piece of driftwood, tossed up on the crest of a wave.

That night, on deck, a close friend of the purser came for an hour's walk around the deck.
The memory of those three shots rested heavily upon his mind.

It seemed that some months before he had been a purser on an East Indian liner. On the home
voyage, twenty-four hours after they left Cairo, when well out into the Mediterranean, this
officer went below for an hour's rest. Suddenly a torpedo struck the steamer. The force of
the explosion literally blew the purser out of his berth. Grabbing some clothes, he ran through
the narrow passageway, already ankle deep in rushing water. The great ship carried several
thousand soldiers and a few women who were coming home from India or from Egypt. Despite the
fact that all realized the steamer would go down within a few minutes, there was no confusion
and the soldiers lined up as if on parade.

The boat went down in about eight minutes, but every one of the women and children had on their
life-preservers and were given first places in the life-boats that had not been ruined by the
explosion.

The purser said that he decided to jump from the deck and swim as far as possible from the
steamer, but despite his struggles he was drawn under and came up half unconscious to find
himself surrounded with swimming men and sinking rowboats that were being shelled by the German
submarine. Suddenly a machine-gun bullet passed through his right shoulder and left an arm
helpless. For half an hour he lay with his left arm upon a floating board, held up by his life-preserver.
The submarine had disappeared. At distances far removed were three of the ship's boats and
one raft. It was plain that there was no help in sight.

Near him was a woman, to whom he called. The purser told the woman that he had been shot in
the right arm and could not help her nor come near to her. She answered that it was good to
hear his voice.

The water was very cold. He began to be alarmed and reasoned as to whether the cold water would
not stay the bleeding. From time to time he would call out to the woman to keep up hope and
courage and not to struggle, but at last he saw she was exhausted. With infinite effort, swimming
with his left arm, he managed to draw near to her.

"Is drowning very painful?" the woman asked.

"No," answered the officer. "Once the water rushes into the lungs one smothers."

To which the English girl answered, "Then I think I will not wait any longer. Good-bye! Good luck!"

Utterly exhausted she let her head fall over and in a moment the life-preserver was on the
top and that was all that he saw.

"The next thing I remember," said the officer, "was waking up to find a nurse trying to pour
a stimulant down my throat."

A destroyer had come up in response to the signals for help and picked up the survivors.

For months he was in the hospital before he could be carried to England. Even now he was not
able to lift a hat from his head with his right arm, but he could write a little. This was
his first voyage to test his strength to prove to the Government that he could take his old
task as purser.

"How did you feel, purser, when you heard that cannon roar this morning against that submarine?"

You should have seen the fire flash in the man's eyes.

"How did I feel?" answered the officer. "I felt like a race-horse snuffing the battle from
afar. Let them sink this ship--I will take another. Let them sink every steamer, I'll take
a sailing vessel. Let them sink all our sailing vessels, we will betake ourselves to tugs.

"We have 5,000 steamers that come and go between any Sunday and Sunday. Some are old cattle-boats,
some are sea tramps and some are ocean hounds. They have carried 10,000,000 men and 20,000,000
tons of war materials, and 8,000,000 tons of iron ore and $3,000,000,000 worth of goods.

"We have lent six hundred ships to France and four hundred ships to Italy. Our ancestors smashed
the Spanish Armada. Our grandfathers baffled Napoleon and their sons defy the Hun and his submarine.

"When I go down my son will take my place. When Germany beats England there will not be an
Englishman left to tell how it happened."

Then, leaning over the railing of the ship, the officer pointed to the setting sun, and lo,
right out of the sea, sailing into our sight, came a fleet of English merchantmen, laden with
wheat, and the purser said:

"By God's help, England shall not starve."

3. German-Americans Who Vilify England

The biography of Grant holds many exciting incidents. One of them concerns a spy who nearly
wrecked Grant's plans. It seems that a rumour came saying that Sheridan had been defeated at
Winchester. A telegram came a few minutes later saying that Sheridan was recovering from the
disaster. Meanwhile, Grant noticed one of his young assistants was endeavouring in vain to
conceal his pleasure over the news of Sheridan's defeat. That feeling seemed inexplicable to
Grant. The Commander-in-Chief had three armies--Sherman's in the South, Sheridan's in the Valley
of the Shenandoah, and his own army of the Potomac. How could a young aide rejoice over Sheridan's
defeat without down in his heart wanting Grant defeated, the Union destroyed, and secession
made a success? Grant became more and more alarmed. He told one of his associates to follow
this youth, whom he feared was a spy. Shortly afterwards the man was discovered sending signals,
was tried, the proofs of his treason uncovered, and finally he was executed.

To-day certain German-Americans never tire of announcing their Americanism. Their favourite
expression is: "Germany was the Fatherland, but the United States is the wife." Not daring,
therefore, to attack our Government, afraid to confess that they want Germany to succeed, and
when that time comes expect to hold certain offices under Germany, they spend all their time
vilifying Great Britain. There is one absolute and invariable test of the German-American's
treason to this country, and that is bitterness towards England, because England is doing all
she can to prevent Germany's victory. One thing has saved this country during four years, giving
us a chance to prepare--Great Britain's fleet, holding Germany's battle-ships behind the Kiel
Canal. To-day our Republic is defended by three armies--General Pershing's, Marshal Foch's
and Marshal Haig's. But whenever a German-American vilifies Haig and attacks England you may
know that down in his heart he wants Pershing defeated, the United States conquered, and Germany
made victorious. The German-American who vilifies Great Britain is angry because Great Britain
has prevented Germany from loading a million German veterans upon her six or eight thousand
passenger ships, freight ships, sailing vessels and war fleet, and sailing to New York and
assessing fifty billion dollars indemnity upon us.

In a certain Western State a German professor of electricity resigned from his institution.
He was receiving about $3,000 a year. Many months passed by. One day this man was heard defaming
England. "England has destroyed the freedom of the seas. England controls Gibraltar and the
Suez Canal. England is the great land pirate. England is the world butcher." A Secret Service
man followed the German professor, and found that he was working as fireman at the wireless
station of that great city. This German professor of electricity had resigned a $3,000 a year
position to work for $75 a month as fireman. As soon as he found that the United States Government
was upon his track he fled to Mexico. This spy's camouflage was love for the United States,
but his treason was revealed through his hatred of England. That man should have been arrested
at dark, tried at midnight, and shot at daybreak.

There is a newspaper reporter in this country. This German-American was caught by a trick.
Another reporter faked a story, writing out on his typewriter an account of several German
submarines getting into the harbour of Liverpool and blowing up half a dozen English steamers
and killing several thousand Englishmen, and this German-American reporter lifted his hands
into the air in glee, and in the presence of half a dozen fellow reporters shouted: "I knew
it! I knew it! I knew the Germans would smash Hades out of them!" In that moment he revealed
his real attitude towards the United States. Any man that wants Admiral Beatty defeated wants
the American transports sunk and American soldiers murdered. That reporter should also have
been arrested at dark, tried at midnight, and shot at daybreak.

In another city there is a young Irish writer. He fulfills all the proverbs about the crazy
Irishman. In connection with the Sinn Fein conspiracy this young writer proposed a toast to
the memory of Sir Roger Casement, the success of the revolution, and poured forth such bitterness
upon England as cannot be described by those who hate ingratitude towards a country that has
given us a chance to prepare. Wherever that man goes he carries hate with him towards Great
Britain. His atmosphere is malign; his presence breathes treason towards England. That is another
man who should have been arrested at dark, tried at midnight, and shot at daybreak. No man
can serve God and Mammon. No man can be faithful to the United States who hates England and
loves Germany. He must love the one and hate the other; he must hold to the one and despise
the crimes of the other. No man can serve God and the Allies, Germany and the devil, at one
and the same time.

4. British vs. American Girls in Munition Factories

To-morrow morning at eight o'clock one million British girls will enter the munition and related
factories. To-morrow afternoon at four o'clock another million girls will enter the same factories,
to be followed at midnight by the third shift of women.

These factories average forty feet wide, and end to end would be 100 feet in length. The roar
of the machinery is never silent by day or night.

In one factory I saw a young woman who was closely related, through her grandfather, to a man
in the House of Lords. Her arms were black with machine oil, her hair was under a rubber cover,
she wore bloomers. Her task was pouring two tons of molten steel into the shell moulds. The
great shells passed from the hands of one girl to another until the fiftieth girl, 1,500 feet
away, finished the threads into which the cap's screw was fastened.

Every twenty-four hours these women turn out more small calibre cartridges than all England
did the first year of this war. Every forty-eight hours they turn out more large cartridges
than all England did the first year of this war. Every six days, with the help of men not fit
for the battle front, they turn out more heavy cannon than all England did the first year of
this war.

They have sent 17,000,900 tons of ammunition to the front. Their shells are roaring on five
battle fronts in three continents. When the British boys thrust their huge shells into the
cannon these boys literally receive the shells at the hands of the millions of English girls
who are passing them forward.

Wonderful the heroism of the British soldiers! The reason why the men fight well at the front
is because there are women at home worth fighting for. In all ages battles have been won, partly
by the strong arm of the soldier, but chiefly by the heart that nerves the arm. That is why
John Ruskin once said that "the woman in the rear generally wins the victory at the front."

It stirs one's sense of wonder to find that all classes and all social conditions are represented
in these factories. Thousands of young school-teachers have left the schoolroom behind, closed
the book and desk and gone to the factory. Tens of thousands of young wives and mothers have
left their little children with the grandmother. Many rectors and clergymen and priests, unfit
for service at the front by reason of age, work all day long in the munition factory. Many
a professional man crowds his work in the office that he may reach the factory for at least
a few hours' work upon shot and shell.

One day in France, as I was entering the factory, I saw perhaps twenty young women come out,
hurry across the street to a building where two old crippled soldiers were taking care of the
little children. These young mothers nursed their babes, looked after the other children and
then hurried back to the factory. Every minute was precious; every day was big with destiny.
Their young husbands and brothers and lovers, when the German push came, must have their cartridges
and shells ready and in abundance.

Watching these women with their strained, anxious faces--women who cut each thread in the shell
with the accuracy of the expert--you could see the lips of the woman murmuring, and needed
no confession from her that she was silently praying for the man who would use this weapon
to defend her beloved France, her aged mother and her little child.

When the beast is slain and the Potsdam gang tried and executed for their crimes, and the boys
come home with trumpets and banners, the ovations will be for the soldiers; but after the soldiers
have had their parade and their honour and their ovation on the first day of the triumph, there
should be a second great parade, in which, while the soldiers stand on the streets and observe,
and the merchants and working men and the professional classes stand as spectators, down the
street shall march the munition girls, who fashioned the weapons with which the soldiers slew
the common enemy.

For while the boys at the front have defended liberty the girls at home have armed the soldiers.
Neither one without the other could have made the world safe for democracy.

Through the imagination these women have a right, while they toil, to watch the shell complete
their work. The smith who forges the chain for the ship's anchor has a right to exult when
he looks out through his imagination upon the great boat held firm by his chain in the hour
when the storm threatened to hurl the craft upon the rocks. The inventor has a right to say:
"That granary full of wheat is mine; I invented the reaper." The physician has a right to rejoice
over the battle and victory over the youth whose life was saved by the surgeon's skill. Not
otherwise, the munition girl has a right when the long day of battle is over to say: "I safeguarded
that cottage; I lifted a shield above that little child; I built a wall against the cathedral
and the gallery and the homes of yonder city."

For American girls of vision there is nothing that they so much desire as the immediate condemnation
by our Government of 10,000 luxury-producing plants in this country, which should immediately
be taken over by our Government for munition purposes, and before the daybreak of the first
morning there would be ten million American girls standing before the doors, trying to break
their way in to obtain a chance to fashion the shells that would protect American boys in danger
at the front.

5. The Wolves' Den on Vimy Ridge

The bloodiest battle of 1917 was fought on the slopes of Vimy Ridge. That ridge is seven and
a half miles long and is shaped like a dog's hind leg. Lifted up to an elevation of several
hundred feet, the hill not only commands an outlook upon the German lines eastward, but protects
the great plains that slope westward towards the English Channel.

To hold that ridge the Germans constructed a vast system of trenches, barbed wire barriers,
Portland cement pill-boxes and underneath the ridge, at a depth of sixty feet, they made their
prisoners dig a gallery seven and a half miles long, with rooms for the officers opening out
on either side of the long passageways.

One morning the Canadian troops started up the long sloping hillside, under skies that rained
cartridges, shells and gas bombs. So terrific was the machine-gun fire that some cartridges
cut trees in two as if they had been cut with a saw, while others did not so much strike the
Canadian boys as cut their bodies into two parts.

Lying upon their faces they crawled up the hillside, cutting the wires as they crept forward.
Not until the second afternoon did the shattered remnants reach the German trench that crowned
the hillcrest. Then they plunged down into the trench, while the Germans rushed down the long
stairs into the underground chamber and fled through the lower openings of their long gallery
northward towards safety.

Not until the Canadian officers led us into one of those German chambers did we understand
the black tragedy. The room was shell-proof. The soft yellow clay was shored up by rough boards.
All around the walls were bunks. In that chamber the German officers had kept the captive French
and Belgian girls. There were two cupboards standing against the wall. One was made of rough
boards; the other was a large, exquisitely carved walnut bureau for girls' garments. When the
German officers fled from the trench above they had just time to escape to the lower shell-proof
rooms, grab some of the treasure and flee. Unwilling to give these captive girls their freedom,
since they could not have the girls they determined that their French and Belgian fathers and
sweethearts should not recover them.

There was just time during the excitement of the flight to unlock the door, rush in and send
a bullet through each young woman. A few minutes later the Canadian boys swarmed through the
long connecting chambers and side rooms.

In one of those rooms they found these young women now dead or dying. Gas bombs had already
been flung down and the rooms were foul with poisoned air. Protected by their masks the Canadian
boys had time to pick up these girls and carry them up the steps into the open air, where they
laid them down on the grass in the open sunshine. But help came too late. Beginning with an
attempt to murder the souls of the girls the German officers had ended by slaying their bodies.

An officer saw to it that the official photographer kept the record of the faces of these dead
girls. Once they must have been divinely beautiful, for all were lovely beyond the average.
One could understand the pride and joy of a father or lover when he looked upon the young girl's
face. The slender body made one think of the tall lily stem, crowned with that flower named
the face and glorious head. Strangely enough they seemed to sleep as if peace had come, after
long pain. Plainly death had been longed for.

Weeks passed by. The photographs of the dead girls were shown in the hope that if possible
word might reach their parents, but no friend had been found to recognize them. One day a Canadian
officer, making slow recovery in a hospital near the coast, was asked by his nurse for the
photograph.

It seemed there was a Belgian woman working in the hospital. Her village had been entirely
destroyed. Her home was gone and all whom she loved had disappeared. By some accident the Red
Cross nurse remembered this photograph and decided to show it to the Belgian woman who had
passed so swiftly from abundance and happiness to the utmost of poverty and heart-break. Almost
unwillingly at first the woman looked at the print. A moment later she held the picture out
at arm's length, rose to her feet, then drew it to her lips and hugged it to her breast.

With streaming eyes she almost shouted, "Thank God! Julia is dead! Thank God! Julia is dead!
Now I know there is a God in Israel, for Julia is dead, is dead--is dead! Thank God! Thank God!"

Though for a long time the doves had been in the clutches of the German hawks; though for a
long time the lambs had been in the jaws of the German wolves; when all else failed death came
and released the lovely girls from the clutch of German assassins.

6. "Why Did You Leave Us in Hell for Two Years?"

For British soldiers it had been a long trying day on Messines Ridge. For many nights the boys
had been coming up towards the front trenches. The next morning at 3:50 they were to go "over
the top"; a feat which they accomplished, driving in a mile and a half deep, on a long, long
line, only to be stopped by four days and nights of rain that drowned the trenches and drove
them back out of the flooded valley to the hillside. Because the Germans knew what must come
the next day, the German cannon were trying to bomb out the British guns.

That night--tired out--we drove back eighteen miles behind the line for one good night's sleep.
After dinner an English lieutenant told me this tragic tale:

"It was an April night last spring. All day the wind and fog and rain had been coming in from
the North Sea. The chill and damp went into the very marrow of the bones. When night fell a
few of us officers crept down the long stair into a shell-proof room. There we had our pipes
and gossiped about the events of the day and talked with the French captain, our guest, who
was spending a week studying our sector. Finally the time came when we must go back into the
trench to take our turn in the rain.

"We were putting on our raincoats, when in my happiness I said, 'Well, men, you should congratulate
me. One week from to-night I shall not be here in this rain and mud. I shall be home in England
and have my little wife and my baby girl. Just one week! It seems like seven eternities instead
of seven days and nights!'

"I little dreamed the little tragedy that I had precipitated. My colonel was very kind. He
told me that he would have his permission in three more months. The rest of the boys also said
nice things. Suddenly we realized that the French captain was acting very strangely and saying
excited things with his back towards us. We did not know how we had insulted him, nor could
we understand what had happened. Finally my colonel said to him:

"'Captain, I hope you will have your vacation soon and have a chance to go home and see your
family.'

"He turned on us like a crazy man. He put his fists in the air, he half shouted and half sobbed
at us.

"'How do you men dare talk to me about going home? Your land has never been invaded, nor your
families ruined. Home! How can I go home? The Germans have had my town for a year. In their
retreat they carried away my little girl and my young wife, and now the priest has gotten word
to me that in six weeks my little girl and my young wife will both have babes by the German
beast who carried them off.'

"And then the Frenchman cursed God and cursed the devil! Cursed the Kaiser and cursed the Fatherland.
Oh, it was so terrible. Doctor, I often wonder how Americans could have left the women and
girls of Belgium and France in hell for two and a half years, while you men stood in safety
and in peace."

The historian will find it hard to answer that question. History will have it to say that England
was the good Samaritan who helped the Belgians who had fallen among thieves, while Americans
were among those who passed by on the other side.

7. "This War Will End Within Forty Years"

A New Zealand officer was giving directions to a group of his soldiers. They were in the field
at the foot of Bapaume. The immediate task was that of cutting and rolling up the barbed wire.
In that territory the Germans had left trenches foul with fever, wells filled with the corpses
of men and horses, springs polluted with every form of filth, but worst of all, the barbed
wire entanglements. Every sharp point was covered with rust and threatened lockjaw. Looking
in every direction, the whole land was yellow with the barbed wire. The work was dangerous.
The rebound of the wire threatened the eye with its vision, threatened the face and the hand,
and all the soldiers were in a mood of rebellion. In an angry mood, the officer exclaimed,
"There are a hundred million miles of German barbed wire in France!"

And when later I asked the first lieutenant how long this war would last, he made the instant
answer, "This war will continue forty years more! One year for the fighting, and thirty-nine
years to roll up the wire."

Because every soldier at the front hated the wire entanglements, that bright sentence ran up
and down the entire line from Belgium to the Swiss frontier. And for men of experience there
is more truth in the statement than one would at first blush think. It will take one more year
for the fighting, but it will take thirty-nine years more to grow the shade trees. Five centuries
ago the French began to develop the love of the beautiful. On either side of the roads running
across the land they planted two rows of poplars, oaks or elms. When long time had passed the
fame of the French roads and the shade trees went out into all the earth. Under these trees
the French farmer stopped his cart, fed his horses and refreshed himself beneath the shade.
Under these trees the old men at the end of their career rested themselves, and gossiped about
old friends that had gone.

And when the German found he could not hold the land and enjoy the shade trees, the splendid
orchards, the purple vineyards, he determined that the Frenchman should not have them, and
so he lifted the axe upon every peach and pear, plum and grape, cherry and gooseberry tree.
Perhaps it was as black a crime to murder the land as it was to murder the bodies of the farmers,
since the soul is immortal.

"One more year of fighting and thirty-nine years" not to roll up the wire, but to rebuild the
cathedrals and churches, the colleges and universities, the halls of science, the temples of
art, the mills for the weaving of cotton and linen and wool, and above all for the rebuilding
of the railways, the reconstruction of the canals and the bridges, great and small. But the
most grievous loss is the human loss. Think of 1,500,000 crippled heroes and poor wounded invalids
in the land of France alone! Think of another 1,500,000 young widows, or lovers and mothers!
Gone the young men who promised so great things for the French essay, the French poem, for
the paintings and the bronzes! Dead the young lawyers, physicians and educators! Gone the young
farmers and husbandmen! Perished 1,000,000 old people and 500,000 little children, all dead
of heart-break. The German beast has been in the land. Like a wolf leaping into the sheepfold
to tear the throats of the young lambs and the mother ewes.

What! Thirty-nine years more to recover ruined France and Belgium, Poland and Rumania? France
will never be the same again. The scar of the beast will abide. That is why no man of large
mind and great heart will ever make friends with a soldier from Germany, will ever buy an article
of German stamp, so long as he lives, will ever read another German book, or support another
German business. It is our duty to forgive the transgressor who is repentant, but it is a crime
to forget the unspeakable atrocities, the devilish cruelties of the German Kaiser, the German
War Staff and the German army, with its 10,000,000 criminals.

8. "Why Are We Outmanned by the Germans?"

Many thoughtful men have lingered long over the despatches announcing that Great Britain called
thirty thousand farmers to the trenches, thus threatening the loss of a part of her harvest.
One of the British editors and statesmen explains this event by the frank statement that for
the moment the Allies are outmanned, and will be until another million Americans reach France.
Many men are puzzled to understand what this means, but the explanation is very simple. The
combined population of Germany, Austria, Hungary and Bulgaria is not far from 140,000,000.
To this must be added seventy millions of conquered and impressed peoples of Belgium, Poland,
Rumania, with the Baltic provinces of Russia, Ukraine and other regions. Over against this
population stands the 125,000,000 living in Great Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Australia,
New Zealand and the English people of South Africa, and India, and the Isles of the Sea. Concede,
therefore, that the army of six millions of Allies are over against six millions of Germans.
Why are we outmanned?

Back of that British editor-statesman's statement lies a most dramatic fact. Our Allies keep
their treaties, and will not use German prisoners to fight against their brothers. Therefore
the six million of Allies' soldiers have no support behind them. But the Germans impress all
conquered peoples and lifted into the air if the observer had a glass powerful enough, he would
behold back of the German six millions another six millions of impressed prisoners and conquered
peoples, who support the German army. These men, driven forward by an automatic pistol and
the rifle, work within half a mile of the rear German trench. They dig ditches, fill shell
holes, repair roads, bring up burdens, care for the horses, scrub the mud from the wagons,
and the slightest neglect of the task means that they are shot down by the German guards. All
this releases the German soldier from the deadly work that breaks the nerve, and unfits a man
to go over the top. That means that the German soldier can fight eight hours, and have sixteen
for rest and recreation.

But over against this German army fighting eight hours, with the deadly work wrought by several
million of impressed servants and slaves, stands the Allied army. But our men after eight hours
of active service must then begin to dig ditches, fill shell holes, repair bridges, clean the
mud from the wagons, bring up the munitions, and this deadly work for eight hours, added to
their eight hours of active service, means only eight hours for sleep and recovery, while the
German has sixteen hours off duty for recovery and sleep. The Allies keep their treaties, and
do not ask a German prisoner to fight against his brother. The Allies obey the laws of right
and wrong, but the Ten Commandments are a great handicap in time of war. Is there any one who
supposes that six million of Allied soldiers, working sixteen hours a day, are as fresh and
as fit as six million Germans, working only eight hours a day? That is why the situation is
so perilous. Fortunately victories are not won by muscle without but by the soul within. The
sense of justice in the heart lends a form of omnipotence to a youth. In a moral universe,
therefore, we must win. The great problem is, how to carry on until we can get another million
Americans across to France, with full equipment, and fifty thousand aeroplanes.

"OVER HERE"

VI

1. The Redemption of a Slacker

Out on the Ohio River there is a large steel town. During the last few years many foreigners
who have the Bolsheviki spirit have crossed the ocean and found work in the great shops and
factories. Little by little the foreign newspapers have developed the spirit that has now ruined
Russia, and is here under the American name of the I. W. W. movement. In this steel city was
an anarchist, with real power to move the mobs. The mere mention of the name of Carnegie or
Rockefeller was to him like waving a red flag in the face of a bull. In the evenings it was
his custom to climb upon a box at the corner of the street, close to a little park, and tell
his hearers that all the wealth in the rich man's house was created by the workman's muscle.
He made no allowance for the inventor, for the organizer, for the risks taken by the man who
built a factory. A few weeks ago this anarchist laid down a newspaper, containing an account
of the trial of the I. W. W. leaders in Chicago. That night, becoming alarmed, lest he himself
be caught in the drag-net, and perhaps forced to enlist as an enemy alien, this agitator disappeared,
leaving behind him his board bill, laundry bill, tailor's bill, not to mention many other forms
of indebtedness--a disappearance that led every one of his creditors to give up any and all
faith in the American Bolsheviki movement.

Now there was a young boy of about twenty-three who had long been listening to this agitator.
When, therefore, the second night after the anarchist's disappearance came, this young man,
who aspired himself to be a leader of the mob, climbed up on the soap box, at the corner of
the little park, and began to speak to the same old crowd.

"Think of it, my friends! Just think of it! Think of some soldier coming in here and making
me enlist! I have no grudge against the Germans. I don't want to kill them. My forefathers
were all German! My name is German. And I am an American all right, all right! Still, I don't
propose to have anybody tell me what I must do. If I want to enlist, I will enlist, and if
I don't, I won't! I'd like to see some Government agent come along and grab me for the draft!
When he comes, he'll hear a few things from me, and then some!"

At that point a man lifted up his hand and said: "Now you may stop right there!" Throwing back
his coat collar, he showed a little metal badge. Climbing up on the box, the stranger took
the young anarchist by his shoulder and half choked him, saying: "So you want to have the people
see some one take you to the draft office? Well," said the officer, "now's the time for them
to see him, and I'm the man. And you people," he went on, "just take a good look at this fellow.
It'll be the last chance you're going to have, for he will be in jail to-night, and to-morrow
we will decide whether or not he has been opposing the draft. If he has, he stands a good chance
of being shot." Blowing a little whistle, the officer dragged the young anarchist to the edge
of the street, half lifted and half kicked him into the police wagon, which soon disappeared.
The enemy aliens who remained behind were stupefied, partly with astonishment and partly with
terror. Aliens began to say, "What will come next?" That night a number more of pro-Germans
disappeared from this town with its steel mills.

The next morning, at ten o'clock, the officer entered the jail. "Get a move on you, young man!"
he said brusquely. "You're going up to the court to be examined to see whether you are a slacker
or a traitor. In the one case you will be interned and in the other case you will be hanged
or shot."

The young anarchist was on his feet in a moment. "But, officer, aren't you going to give me
a chance to enlist?"

"Young man, this Government does not want traitors to enlist, nor pro-Germans."

"I am not a pro-German this morning," cried the excited man. "I have thought the whole thing
over last night. I did not sleep a wink. I think this Government is the best government in
the world. And I am willing to fight for it."

The officer was astounded. "Well, my young enemy," he exclaimed, "a dungeon seems to have had
a good effect upon your mind. What has regenerated you? Was it the cold water or the corn bread?
Or the steel door before your dungeon? Or was it the bad air in your cell? Or possibly it was
the fear of death, or God Almighty, or future punishment. Come now, out with it!"

It was a thoroughly frightened boy who stood half an hour later in the prisoner's dock. "Give
me some book on the Government of the United States," he exclaimed to the judge. "And give
me a week in which to show that I am in earnest, and I will then volunteer." The judge was
very grave. "Young man," he said sternly, "any boy that will eat the bread of the United States,
that will enjoy the liberty of this country, and has had all the chances to climb to place
that have come to you, and refuses to enlist, has something wrong with him, and it is only
a question of time when he comes to the judgment day." To this the young man made the answer
that he had been lazy, careless and ignorant; that he had allowed himself to become the tool
of the runaway agitator, and then once more he asked that he might have a chance to enlist.
With the help of friends, the judge and the draft board finally let him off and sent him to
a camp for three months' intensive training. Then came the news that his company had been sent
over seas, and within a short time thereafter in the list of casualties the name of this young
foreigner appeared. But one letter reached this country, and that letter was notable for this
sentence: "For the first time in my life I have had young Americans for my companions. The
boys in my company have had a college education and they have taught me bravery, truth, self-sacrifice,
kindness and chivalry. I have learned more in two months at the camp than in all the rest of
my life put together. The companionship in my company and in my camp have saved my soul." It
is this that explains the redemption of the slacker.

2. Slackers versus Heroes

Going through the long communication trench, between the ruined city of Rheims and an observation
lookout, with its view of the German front trench, we passed several soldiers digging an opening
in the soft white marl, into a parallel trench. The captain in charge called my attention to
a French poilu. His hair was quite black, save for the half inch next to the scalp and that
was white as snow. If one had lifted up his hair and estimated his age by the last two inches
of the jet locks the poilu would have been about thirty-five, but the hair, pure white at the
roots, and a glance at his face told us that he was fifty-five to sixty.

"He passed inspection," said the captain, "by dyeing his hair, and several weeks ago he broke
the bottle of dye. Now he is half scared to death for fear he will be thrown out, because he
is at the beginning of old age. Still I have no better soldier, no stronger, braver man. But
I am hoping much from a friend in Epernay, to whom I sent for a bottle of black hair dye."

So long as the Frenchmen have that spirit France will never be defeated.

Many weeks ago I was in a manufacturing town near Pittsburgh. The wind was sharp and chill.
All overcoats were turned up at the collar. On a box stood a young Australian lieutenant. His
cheeks held two fiery spots. He was telling the story of the second battle of Ypres. While
he talked you walked with him the streets of the doomed city, you heard the crash of the great
shells as they smashed through the public buildings; you witnessed the burning of the Cloth
Hall and shivered as the noble structure fell. One laughed with him in his moments of humour
and wept over the sorrows of the refugees. He pleaded with the Welshmen and the Cornishmen,
and told them that the motherland was bleeding to death and that now every boy counted. He
flogged his hearers, scoffed at them, praised them, wept, laughed, reviled, transformed and
finally conquered them.

At the close, shaking hands with him, lo! he was burning with fever, with skin hot and dry.
"Lieutenant, you should be at the hotel, in bed. You will kill yourself speaking in this cold air."

"Well," he answered, "there are plenty of our boys who are perfectly sound who will be killed
inside of three months. I have the t. b., (tuberculosis), but I believe that I can pull through
a year. I have enlisted over one hundred coal miners from Wales and iron-workers from Cornwall.
I am willing to die for the motherland, after a year of t. b., since my pals will be dead within
three months through bullets. And when I die I want to die with the consciousness that I have
kept my manhood."

I left that poor, wounded, half-dead young soldier with the feeling that I had been in the
presence of a superior being.

Over against these heroes stand the slackers. There are hundreds and thousands of young men
from allied countries who are of draft age, who find refuge in this land. There are other thousands
who have been exempted, one because he has a flat instep, another because he has had trouble
with his eyes or his teeth; or has tuberculosis, in its initial form, or is a victim of bronchitis.
Most of these men owe it to their country and themselves to tear up their exemption papers.
They earn their living in this country, working ten hours a day, but they will not work six
or eight hours a day for Old England, thus releasing some young man to go to the front.

The question is not whether the youth has an exemption paper. The heart of the question is,
Has he any moral right to accept an exemption? This war is being fought by untold thousands
of soldiers who could obtain half a dozen exemptions. They prefer to run the risk of death
in six months, to looking after their own hides and keeping well away from danger for the next
six years or sixty. No one who has been in the coal regions or in the great mines of the Rocky
Mountains but realizes that there are an enormous number of allied slackers in this country.
They have left their country to its dire peril at a moment when Old England is bleeding to
death--when every man counts and when the cripples, the invalids, the old men, the women, everybody
who can give four hours or eight of work a day should enter the great war offices or commissary
departments and do office work, and thus release the stronger men for their work at the front.

The time has fully come when Americans should ask themselves the question whether or not they
have a moral right to support with money that could be far better used, in the war stamp purchases
or Red Cross work, all these slackers and cowards, at a time when the motherland asks them
to throw away their exemption papers, in an hour when civilization, liberty and humanity are
treasures trembling in the balance.

3. German Stupidity in Avoiding the Draft

Following the revolution of 1848 in Germany, multitudes of people fled from Prussia and Bavaria,
and these fugitives, settling in the United States, organized colonies that grew until there
were often one hundred families in a single community. Strangely enough, as the years went
on, these Germans forgot the iron yoke they once had borne, until, when many years had passed
by, it came about that time and distance lent a glamour to the landscape of the far-off Fatherland.
Occasional letters from their relatives kept them in touch with the old German home. At last
they quite forgot the militarism, the poverty, the cruel limitations and the hypocrisy of Germany.
Familiarity also with the institutions of the Republic bred a kind of contempt. Through the
imagination Germany became an enchanted land. When, therefore, war was declared these German-Americans
came together in their clubs, beer gardens and German churches, to pledge unswerving fealty
to the Kaiser and to the militarism from which once they had fled as from death itself.

Last summer brought the Government draft to the young men of one of these German colonies.
The week was approaching when the German boys must have their physical examination. American
officers, American physicians and the members of the draft board were already in session in
a certain town. One Sunday a German-American physician appeared in that community. That night
some twenty or more young German-Americans met that physician. He told them plainly how deeply
he sympathized with their unwillingness to turn their guns against their own German cousins
and relatives in the Fatherland. Out of pity and compassion had been born his plan to save
their limbs and perhaps their lives, and also to serve the Fatherland and the beloved Kaiser.
"I have here," said the physician, "a certain heart depressant. It will slow your heart like
the brake on an automobile. It is a simple coal-oil product. It is quite harmless. It was made
by the well-known German firm of Baer & Company, chemists, and it is so cheap. I shall see
to it that you are rejected for the draft. And--think of it!--only twenty-five dollars! For
that little sum I will keep you from being wounded or killed. You will each one give me twenty-five
dollars; then I will give you this bottle, holding five grains for Monday, ten grains for Tuesday,
fifteen grains for Wednesday, twenty grains for Thursday, twenty-five grains for Friday, and
on Saturday you will be rejected." Ten minutes later the necromancer had juggled twenty-five
dollars out of the pocket of each newly drafted boy and into his own right-hand pocket.

On Saturday these young men appeared before the draft board and the Government physicians.
All the boys were in a dreadful condition nervously. Now the heart would drop to forty, and
then at the slightest exertion run up to two hundred and twenty. All were dizzy, nauseated,
yellow and green, feverish. But the Secret Service men knew every detail of what had taken
place, and all the facts were in the hands of the draft board. A certain farmer's son, young
Heinrich H----, was first examined. The United States physician counted a pulse that varied
from forty to two hundred and twenty. The physician kept his face perfectly straight. "Marvellous
heart! Regular as a clock! Strong as the throbbing of a locomotive. Seventy-two exactly! Absolutely
normal. I congratulate you, young men, upon your fine heart action. A man is as old as his
heart engine. A boy with a heart like yours ought to live to be a hundred years old. All you
need is a change of climate. France will do the world for you. You may need a little heart
stimulant, but I think that nothing hastens the pulse beat like a few rifle balls and bomb
shells from Hindenburg." He sent every one of the twenty boys into the service, but separated
them, one going to Camp Ayer, in Massachusetts; one to Camp Bliss, in El Paso, Texas, and the
rest to camps in States between. In one Middle West community a German father and son went
so far as to deaden pain through cocaine and then cut off the finger of the right hand. It
is generally understood that both the father and son are now in two widely separated penitentiaries,
reflecting each in his own cell upon the folly of treason and the crime of becoming a traitor
to the kindest and best Government that has ever been organized upon our earth.

4. "I'm Working Now for Uncle Sam"

The long transatlantic train came to a dead stop at the division station in that great Southwestern
State, where one was surrounded by sage-brush, the sand, the distant foot-hills and the far-off
mountain range.

One of the Pullman cars showed signs of a hot box, and a moment later the wheel burst into
a mass of flame. In the thirty minutes' wait for repairs I made my way into the room where
the conductors, engineers and firemen met. On a little table I found a copy of the address
given before the railroad men of El Paso, Texas, by Secretary McAdoo.

I called the attention of the different men to the address, to the clarity of the reasoning,
the simplicity of the argument, the strength of the appeal and the glowing patriotism that
filled all the pages. The pamphlet had been worn by much reading. It was covered with the black
finger prints of busy men who had been working around the locomotives and tenders.

Plainly Mr. McAdoo's speech had made a profound impression upon these employees. Having first
of all called the attention of the large group of men to the creative work of Alexander Hamilton,
the first Secretary of the Treasury, who struck, as Daniel Webster said, "the dry rock of national
credit and abundant streams of revenue gushed forth," I asked these men whether there had been
in one hundred and twenty-five years any forward movement in finance that was comparable to
the benefits derived from the national reserve bank law, under Secretary McAdoo, a law that
not only had prevented a panic in this country during this war, but had raised more billions
within four years than the total cost of the Government in the first century of our existence.

Late that afternoon, on the train, the conductor sought me out. In the midst of the discussion
he drew out a roll of bills. He told me that in those mountain towns many of the ranchers did
not buy their tickets at the stations.

To use his expression, "They had it in for the railroads." "They pay me their fare in cash,
and when I give them the receipt they tear up the receipt and wink at me. I always feel," he
said, "like resenting these actions, because I know that they are incitements to petty theft,
but now," he said, "I have my chance. I always tell them," said the conductor, "that money
belongs to Uncle Sam. It is not easy at a first performance to take in everything with both
eye and ear, and I shall excuse myself from attempting to do justice
to M. RAVEL'S music.

But I was free (the curtain being down) to listen to one long orchestral passage which followed
the capture of Chloë. It was of the nature of a dirge, and it seemed to me to suggest very cleverly
the sorrows of a poultry-yard. I suppose Chloë must have been in the habit of feeding them
and they missed her.

I hate to say one word of disparagement about a performance for which I could never be sufficiently
grateful. But I agree with a friend of mine who complained to me of the way in which Pan was presented.
It was this beneficent god who caused a panic among the brigands
and so enabled Chloë to return to her friends, though I don't know
why he ever let her be captured, for he was there at the time.

Well, I agree that he ought to have been represented by something more satisfactory than a
half-length portrait painted on a huge travelling plank of pasteboard, which was pushed about
from Arcadia to Scythia (if this was the brigands' address) and back
again, appearing in the limelight, when required, like a whisky sky-sign.

O.

S.

* * * * *

* * * * *

TEMPORA MUTANTUR.

[Suggested by recent correspondence in a leading journal.]

WHY USE SPECS?

A Centenarian's Testimony to the Editor of "The Chimes."

SIR,--I was 117 on the 1st of April and have never used any artificial aid to eyesight, yet
I can read the articles for ladies on the Court Circular page of
your splendid publication without turning a hair. It is true that
I am, and have always been, of an iron constitution, having practically
dispensed with sleep for the last sixty years. For some considerable
time I have been able to do without physical sustenance as well, owing
to the extraordinarily nutritious nature of the contents of your superb
South American Encyclopædias.

Yours faithfully,

NESTOR PARR.

A
PERFECT CURE.

To the Editor of "The Chimes."

SIR,--Is my experience
worth recording? Until two or three years ago I was entirely dependent
on spectacles, and suffered unspeakable inconvenience if I happened
to mislay them. How did he find out that there had been a secret
meeting of the Germans immediately after war had been declared against Germany? Each farmer
began to ask himself: "Has any one quoted me?" Each one decided to attend that meeting.

The meeting began at precisely seven o'clock. Only one man who had received the notice was
absent, and his son brought a message concerning his father's absence. The stranger arose in
his place, but left it uncertain as to whether he was a Secret Service man, a banker or a patriot
interested in his country. He began with substantially these words:

"Men, you are all German-Americans. I find that not one of you subscribed to the First Liberty
Loan. You came to this country poor men. This Government sold you Government land for from
a dollar and a quarter to two dollars and a half an acre. But you seem to have forgotten one
thing. Your title deed to your farm rests upon your loyalty as citizens of the Republic. Whenever
you refuse to support the people of the Republic you have by your own act annulled the title
deed of your land.

"If you refuse to support your Government in this war, you are a traitor, and when this is
proved you will be shot. If secretly you have been sending money to the Kaiser to buy guns
with which to kill American boys you have forfeited the title deed to your farm. Your property
has become again the possession of the Government and people of the United States."

By this time these farmers had their mouths open, and their faces became tense and alarmed.
When his words had had time to sink in, the stranger went on: "I have here a statement as to
the number of acres in each farm owned by each man in this room. The first man's name is Heinrich
----; you own 320 acres of land. It is worth at least $75,000. There is no mortgage on this
farm. Heinrich, I think you had better buy $2,500 worth of Liberty Bonds. I am simply advising
with you as a friend. I have made out an application for you, and all you have to do is to sign it.

"My advice to every one of you is that you buy from three to five per cent, of the value of
your farm. I want to say incidentally that I trust that there will never again be held a secret
meeting of the Germans in this room to discuss the best way to avoid supporting the United
States Government in this war against Germany, and how you can best help the Kaiser."

That little sentence worked like magic. Every farmer in the room rose to his feet in his anxiety
to rush forward to the table. Men literally struggled to see who should sign up first. Their
enthusiasm for the United States Government was as boundless as it was sudden in its manifestation.

Remember that there were only two hundred farmers in the room. And yet there are the best of
reasons for believing that the men in that room bought that night nearly $200,000 worth of
Liberty Bonds.

6. "Sharper Than a Serpent's Tooth" Is an Ungrateful Immigrant

One of the things that no patriot can ever understand is the ingratitude of the Germans who
fled from the Fatherland to escape German militarism and autocracy.

Lecturing in a Western State, I met a banker who had returned from a schoolhouse in a rural
district where he had been talking about the Liberty Bonds to a German audience. One old German
refused to attend this meeting. He was very bitter in his attacks upon our Government. He had
made no subscription to the first two Liberty Loans; he had refused to help in the campaign
for the Red Cross Fund; he insisted that he paid his taxes and that was all that the Government
had any right to demand from him.

He went one step further: The old man said that he had not read a single American newspaper
since the war began, and that nothing but a German newspaper should cross his threshold until
the war ended. Not until that banker descended upon this pro-German with the indignation of
an outraged patriot did the rich old farmer capitulate.

The story of that German is typical. He came to this country about 1859. When the homestead
act was passed he received from the United States one hundred and sixty acres of land in the
very centre of one of the richest States in this Union, and his one hundred and sixty acre
farm is now worth about $100,000.

When he ran away from Germany he was receiving twenty cents a day. He rose at daybreak, cleaned
stables, milked cows, toiled in the field, began his milking after dark, worked sixteen hours
a day, had nothing to eat except what could not be sold by his employer. He was a German plebeian,
with no chance ever to improve his condition. He was ignorant, stupid, a mere beast of burden.

So the German boy slipped across the line into Holland, came steerage to this country, slept
among the rats of the ship, but the people of the United States welcomed that miserable refugee.
The American school, without any charge, gave him four months' instruction every winter until
he was twenty. The American people gave him a farm as a free gift. This Republic educated his
children, his grandchildren and enriched them with land, office, honours and wealth. Once he
hated autocracy and militarism in the Fatherland--but in 1918 he loved them.

No sooner did the Kaiser invade Belgium and commit rape upon that land than this German farmer
passed through a revulsion. Whatever the Kaiser did was right. If Germany did a thing it was
proper. Germany had a right to break her solemn treaties; Germany had a right to sink the Lusitania;
if Germany was out of iron ore she had a right to invade France and steal her iron mines. What
had been crimes suddenly became virtues.

Fleeing from the German tyrant in 1859, in 1918 the old farmer turned upon the United States
that had befriended him.

"If I have to make my choice, I choose the Kaiser."

Mentally, it seems absurd. Morally, his was a monstrous position. But blood was thicker than
water. Gratitude had no place in his heart.

This old German regarded the gift of his farm by our people as a sign of weakness. The Republic
gave him a homestead because he was a superior man. He actually had a belief that Germany would
soon overrun the world; that the Kaiser would soon be enthroned in Washington; that some German
in Iowa would supersede the Government in Des Moines, and he was simply getting ready, having
made friends with the Kaiser's Government, to receive reward when the United States became
a German colony.

Who can explain the obsession?

It is clear that the German-Americans had been drilled for forty years through their German
newspapers in these ideas. Little by little they have been alienated from the institutions
of the Republic. Slowly they have been led to believe that Berlin is soon to be a world capital
and Kaiser Wilhelm the world emperor, while only Germans shall be allowed in this country to
hold office or land, while all Americans become tenants and servitors thereto.

Plainly this is what Siebert meant in his book, published five years ago in Berlin:

"When we have reached our goal Germany must see to it that no race save the German race can
have a title deed in land or carry weapons, just as in the first world empire no one but a
Roman was allowed to own land or have a sword or spear."

7. In Praise of Our Secret Service

Of necessity our Secret Service work is carried on in silence and without blare of trumpets.
The achievements of the Department of Justice cannot be proclaimed from the housetops. Everybody
knows something about the crimes committed by the German agents. Socialism appeared to kill these
two birds with one stone. It spread like an epidemic.

The robe of speculative cobwebs, embroidered with flowers of rhetoric, steeped in the dew of
sickly sentiment, this transcendental robe in which the German Socialists wrapped their sorry
"eternal truths" all skin and bone, served to wonderfully increase the sale of their goods amongst such
a public.

And on its part, German Socialism recognized more and more its own
calling as the bombastic representative of the petty bourgeois philistine.

It
proclaimed the German nation to be the model nation, and the German
petty philistine to be the typical man. To every villainous meanness
of this model man it gave a hidden, higher, socialistic interpretation,
the exact contrary of its real character.

War was declared against Germany on April 6, 1917. One Sunday night two or three weeks later
a large company of German-Americans belonging to the secret German league met in their accustomed
place of assembly. There were several hundred Germans present, but among them were three Secret
Service men. The German lawyer who opened the meeting was very bitter. Having made certain
that only German sympathizers were present, he went on to say that the occasion of this war
could be traced to Wall Street. Certain rich bankers and American plutocrats had loaned perhaps
a billion dollars to England. Since the war was going against England, these rich men were
afraid that they would lose their investment. In their emergency they forced war upon Congress.
The speech was clever, specious, cunning, shrewdly calculated to stir up passion. And the speech
was applauded to the echo. The second speaker made a no less skillful appeal to the prejudices
of the members of the secret German-American league. SIR,--I was 165 last birthday. I was in the
merchant marine for upwards of eighty years, and then became a Swedenborgian, but never had
occasion to consult an oculist. I was born in the reign of George II., or was it Queen Anne?--I
really forget which. And, he added, in view of the fact that it was Sunday night and that some might
be without money, and since no checks could be accepted, there were several German bankers
present, who would be glad to advance money to the members who wished to make cash contributions.
The Germans had provided in advance against every possible emergency.

Then came the opportunity for the Secret Service men. The first one arose and began with an
apology for a German brogue that in reality he was assuming. He spared no words in praising
the first two speakers. "What a wonderful man was the Kaiser! What victories von Hindenburg
had achieved! The Fatherland was standing with back against the wall. How wicked a nation was
France, and Poland! What a black heart England had!" He pictured Germany as a lamb with fleece
as white as snow, and a huge Belgian wolf jumping at the lamb's tender throat. "What an ambitious
man was President Wilson. How eagerly had Congress waited until Germany was weak, and then
rushed in to grab the fruits of war!" When this man sat down his hearers were in a state of
rapturous upheaval. But scarcely had his voice ceased echoing in the air when the second Secret
Service man arose. Having complimented the first two speeches by the German plotters, he said
that he thought he represented the members in expressing the judgment that the third speaker
had made a speech that was unrivalled in its statement as to the duty of the members toward
the Kaiser and the beloved Fatherland. The second Secret Service man, therefore, moved that
it be the sense of the meeting that the member who had just spoken be made secretary of the
meeting, be custodian of the funds just contributed. In five minutes he had all the secrets
of the meeting safely lodged in the hands of the first Secret Service man. At this point the
third representative of the Government arose and nominated the second Secret Service speaker,
who had just taken his seat, as teller to count the funds, and in recognition of this man's
gifts the teller immediately afterwards appointed the third Secret Service man assistant teller.
During the next three hours, in the secrecy of their own meeting, over twenty prosperous and
influential Germans committed themselves against this Government.

About midnight the secretary and the two tellers turned over to the two Germans who had made
the two big speeches at the opening of the meeting the entire collection, which amounted to
thousands of dollars. "Undoubtedly," it will be said, "religious, moral, philosophical and juridical
ideas have been modified in the course of historical development. But religion, morality, philosophy,
political science, and law, constantly survived this change.
 Their sentences were for twenty-eight years. The other
men who defended Germany and attacked the United States are serving terms--some long and some
short. It is a proverb that the wicked flee when no man pursueth. But Dr. Parkhurst coined
a striking sentence when he added: "The wicked man makes better time in fleeing when the righteous
Secret Service man pursues him with a sharp stick."

