Macon is a beautiful place.  Business was flourishing like a green bay tree.  The people were
good, kind, and clever to us.  Everywhere the hospitality of their homes was proffered us.
We were regarded as their liberators.  They gave us all the good things they had--eating, drinking,
etc.  We felt our consequence, I assure you, reader.  We felt we were heroes, indeed; but the
benzine and other fluids became a little promiscuous and the libations of the boys a little
too heavy.  They began to get boisterous--I might say, riotous.  Some of the boys got to behaving
badly, and would go into stores and places, and did many things they ought not to have done.
In fact, the whole caboodle of them ought to have been carried to the guard-house.  They were
whooping, and yelling, and firing off their guns, just for the fun of the thing.  I remember
of going into a very nice family's house, and the old lady told the dog to go out, go out,
sir! and remarked rather to herself, "Go out, go out! I wish you were killed, anyhow."  John
says, "Madam, do you want that dog killed, sure enough?"  She says, "Yes, I do.  I do wish
that he was dead." Before I could even think or catch my breath, bang went John's gun, and
the dog was weltering in his blood right on the good lady's floor, the top of his head entirely
torn off.  I confess, reader, that I came very near jumping out of my skin, as it were, at
the unexpected discharge of the gun.  And other such scenes, I reckon, were being enacted elsewhere,
but at last a detail was sent around to arrest all stragglers, and we were soon rolling back
to Atlanta.

"BELLUM LETHALE"

Well, after "jugging" Stoneman, we go back to Atlanta and occupy our same old place near the
concrete house.  We found everything exactly as we had left it, with the exception of the increased
number of graybacks, which seemed to have propagated a thousand-fold since we left, and they
were crawling about like ants, making little paths and tracks in the dirt as they wiggled and
waddled about, hunting for ye old Rebel soldier. Sherman's two thirty-pound parrot guns were
in the same position, and every now and then a lazy-looking shell would pass over, speeding
its way on to Atlanta.

The old citizens had dug little cellars, which the soldiers called "gopher holes," and the
women and children were crowded together in these cellars, while Sherman was trying to burn
the city over their heads. But, as I am not writing history, I refer you to any history of
the war for Sherman's war record in and around Atlanta.

As John and I started to go back, we thought we would visit the hospital. Great God!  I get
sick today when I think of the agony, and suffering, and sickening stench and odor of dead
and dying; of wounds and sloughing sores, caused by the deadly gangrene; of the groaning and
wailing. I cannot describe it.  I remember, I went in the rear of the building, and there I
saw a pile of arms and legs, rotting and decomposing; and, although I saw thousands of horrifying
scenes during the war, yet today I have no recollection in my whole life, of ever seeing anything
that I remember with more horror than that pile of legs and arms that had been cut off our
soldiers.  As John and I went through the hospital, and were looking at the poor suffering
fellows, I heard a weak voice calling, "Sam, O, Sam."  I went to the poor fellow, but did not
recognize him at first, but soon found out that it was James Galbreath, the poor fellow who
had been shot nearly in two on the 22nd of July.  I tried to be cheerful, and said, "Hello,
Galbreath, old fellow, I thought you were in heaven long before this."  He laughed a sort of
dry, cracking laugh, and asked me to hand him a drink of water.  I handed it to him.  He then
began to mumble and tell me something in a rambling and incoherent way, but all I could catch
was for me to write to his family, who were living near Mt. Pleasant.  I asked him if he was
badly wounded.  He only pulled down the blanket, that was all.  I get sick when I think of
it.  The lower part of his body was hanging to the upper part by a shred, and all of his entrails
were lying on the cot with him, the bile and other excrements exuding from them, and they full
of maggots.  I replaced the blanket as tenderly as I could, and then said, "Galbreath, good-bye."
I then kissed him on his lips and forehead, and left.  As I passed on, he kept trying to tell
me something, but I could not make out what he said, and fearing I would cause him to exert
himself too much, I left.

It was the only field hospital that I saw during the whole war, and I have no desire to see
another.  Those hollow-eyed and sunken-cheeked sufferers, shot in every conceivable part of
the body; some shrieking, and calling upon their mothers; some laughing the hard, cackling
laugh of the sufferer without hope, and some cursing like troopers, and some writhing and groaning
as their wounds were being bandaged and dressed. I saw a man of the Twenty-seventh, who had
lost his right hand, another his leg, then another whose head was laid open, and I could see
his brain thump, and another with his under jaw shot off; in fact, wounded in every manner
possible.

Ah! reader, there is no glory for the private soldier, much less a conscript.  James Galbreath
was a conscript, as was also Fain King. Mr. King was killed at Chickamauga.  He and Galbreath
were conscripted and joined Company H at the same time.  Both were old men, and very poor,
with large families at home; and they were forced to go to war against their wishes, while
their wives and little children were at home without the necessaries of life.  The officers
have all the glory.  Glory is not for the private soldier, such as die in the hospitals, being
eat up with the deadly gangrene, and being imperfectly waited on.  Glory is for generals, colonels,
majors, captains, and lieutenants.  They have all the glory, and when the poor private wins
battles by dint of sweat, hard marches, camp and picket duty, fasting and broken bones, the
officers get the glory.  The private's pay was eleven dollars per month, if he got it; the
general's pay was three hundred dollars per month, and he always got his.  I am not complaining.
These things happened sixteen to twenty years ago.  Men who never fired a gun, nor killed a
Yankee during the whole war, are today the heroes of the war.  Now, I tell you what I think
about it: I think that those of us who fought as private soldiers, fought as much for glory
as the general did, and those of us who stuck it out to the last, deserve more praise than
the general who resigned because some other general was placed in command over him.  A general
could resign.  That was honorable.  A private could not resign, nor choose his branch of service,
and if he deserted, it was death.

THE SCOUT AND DEATH OF A YANKEE LIEUTENANT

General Hood had sent off all his cavalry, and a detail was made each day of so many men for
a scout, to find out all we could about the movements of the Yankees.  Colonel George Porter,
of the Sixth Tennessee, was in command of the detail.  We passed through Atlanta, and went
down the railroad for several miles, and then made a flank movement toward where we expected
to come in contact with the Yankees.  When we came to a skirt of woods, we were deployed as
skirmishers.  Colonel Porter ordered us to re-prime our guns and to advance at twenty-five
paces apart, being deployed as skirmishers, and to keep under cover as much as possible. He
need not have told us this, because we had not learned war for nothing.  We would run from
one tree to another, and then make a careful reconnoiter before proceeding to another.  We
had begun to get a little careless, when bang! bang! bang!  It seemed that we had got into
a Yankee ambush.  The firing seemed to be from all sides, and was rattling among the leaves
and bushes.  It appeared as if some supernatural, infernal battle was going on and the air
was full of smoke.  We had not seen the Yankees.  I ran to a tree to my right, and just as
I got to it, I saw my comrade sink to the ground, clutching at the air as he fell dead. I kept
trying to see the Yankees, so that I might shoot.  I had been looking a hundred yards ahead,
when happening to look not more than ten paces from me, I saw a big six-foot Yankee with a
black feather in his hat, aiming deliberately at me.  I dropped to the ground, and at the same
moment heard the report, and my hat was knocked off in the bushes. I remained perfectly still,
and in a few minutes I saw a young Yankee lieutenant peering through the bushes.  I would rather
not have killed him, but I was afraid to fire and afraid to run, and yet I did not wish to
kill him.  He was as pretty as a woman, and somehow I thought I had met him before.  Our eyes
met.  He stood like a statue.  He gazed at me with a kind of scared expression.  I still did
not want to kill him, and am sorry today that I did, for I believe I could have captured him,
but I fired, and saw the blood spurt all over his face.  He was the prettiest youth I ever
saw.  When I fired, the Yankees broke and run, and I went up to the boy I had killed, and the
blood was gushing out of his mouth.  I was sorry.

ATLANTA FORSAKEN

One morning about the break of day our artillery opened along our breastworks, scaring us almost
to death, for it was the first guns that had been fired for more than a month.  We sprang to
our feet and grabbed our muskets, and ran out and asked some one what did that mean.  We were
informed that they were "feeling" for the Yankees.  The comment that was made by the private
soldier was simply two words, and those two words were "O, shucks."  The Yankees had gone--no
one knew whither--and our batteries were shelling the woods, feeling for them.  "O, shucks."

"Hello," says Hood, "Whar in the Dickens and Tom Walker are them Yanks, hey?  Feel for them
with long-range 'feelers'."  A boom, boom.  "Can anybody tell me whar them Yanks are?  Send
out a few more 'feelers.' The feelers in the shape of cannon balls will bring them to taw."
Boom, boom, boom.

    "For the want of a nail, the shoe was lost,
     For the want of a shoe the horse was lost,
     For the want of a horse the general was lost,
     For the want of a general the battle was lost."

Forrest's cavalry had been sent off somewhere.  Wheeler's cavalry had been sent away yonder
in the rear of the enemy to tear up the railroad and cut off their supplies, etc., and we had
to find out the movements of the enemy by "feeling for them" by shelling the vacant woods.
The Yankees were at that time twenty-five miles in our rear, "a hundred thousand strong," at
a place called Jonesboro.  I do not know how it was found out that they were at Jonesboro,
but anyhow, the news had come and Cheatham's corps had to go and see about it.

Stewart's corps must hold Atlanta, and Stephen D. Lee's corps must be stretched at proper distance,
so that the word could be passed backward and forward as to how they were getting along.  As
yet it is impossible to tell of the movements of the enemy, because our cannon balls had not
come back and reported any movements to us.  We had always heard that cannon balls were blind,
and we did not suppose they could see to find their way back.  Well, our corps made a forced
march for a day and a night, and passed the word back that we had seen some signs of the Yankees
being in that vicinity, and thought perhaps, a small portion-- about a hundred thousand--were
nigh about there somewhere.  Says he, "It's a strange thing you don't know; send out your feelers."
We sent out a few feelers and they report back very promptly that the Yankees are here sure
enough, or that is what our feelers say.  Pass the word up the line.  The word is passed from
mouth to mouth of Lee's skirmish line twenty-five miles back to Atlanta.  Well, if that be
the case, we will set fire to all of our army stores, spike all our cannon, and play "smash"
generally, and forsake Atlanta.

In the meantime, just hold on where you are till Stewart gets through his job of blowing up
arsenals, burning up the army stores, and spiking the cannon, and we will send our negro boy
Caesar down to the horse lot to see if he can't catch old Nance, but she is such a fool with
that young suckling colt of hers, that it takes him almost all day to catch her, and if the
draw-bars happen to be down, she'll get in the clover patch, and I don't think he will catch
her today.  But if he don't catch her, I'll ride Balaam anyhow.  He's got a mighty sore back,
and needs a shoe put on his left hind foot, and he cut his ankle with a broken shoe on his
fore foot, and has not been fed today.  However, I will be along by-and-by.  Stewart, do you
think you will be able to get through with your job of blowing up by day after tomorrow, or
by Saturday at twelve o'clock?  Lee, pass the word down to Cheatham, and ask him what he thinks
the Yankees are doing.  Now, Kinlock, get my duster and umbrella, and bring out Balaam.

Now, reader, that was the impression made on the private's mind at that time.

CHAPTER XIV

JONESBORO

THE BATTLE OF JONESBORO

Stewart's corps was at Atlanta, Lee's corps was between Atlanta and Jonesboro, and Cheatham's
corps, then numbering not more than five thousand men--because the woods and roads were full
of straggling soldiers, who were not in the fight--was face to face with the whole Yankee army,
and he was compelled to flee, fight, or surrender.  This was the position and condition of
the grand Army of Tennessee on this memorable occasion.

If I am not mistaken, General Cleburne was commanding Cheatham's corps at that time.  We expected
to be ordered into action every moment, and kept see-sawing backward and forward, until I did
not know which way the Yankees were, or which way the Rebels.  We would form line of battle,
charge bayonets, and would raise a whoop and yell, expecting to be dashed right against the
Yankee lines, and then the order would be given to retreat.  Then we would immediately re-form
and be ordered to charge again a mile off at another place.  Then we would march and counter
march backward and forward over the same ground, passing through Jonesboro away over the hill,
and then back through the town, first four forward and back; your right hand to your left hand
lady, swing half round and balance all.  This sort of a movement is called a "feint."  A feint
is what is called in poker a "bluff," or what is called in a bully a "brag." A feint means
anything but a fight.  If a lady faints she is either scared or in love, and wants to fall
in her lover's arms.  If an army makes a feint movement, it is trying to hide some other movement.

"Hello, Lee, what does Cleburne say the Yankees are doing at Jonesboro?"

"They are fanning themselves."

"Well keep up that feint movement until all the boys faint from sheer exhaustion."

"Hello, Stewart, do you think you will be able to burn up those ten locomotives, and destroy
those hundred car loads of provisions by day after tomorrow?"

"Lee, ask Cleburne if he feels feinty?  Ask him how a fellow feels when he feints?"

Cleburne says: "I have feinted, feinted, and feinted, until I can't feint any longer."

"Well," says Hood, "if you can't feint any longer, you had better flee, fight, or faint; Balaam
gets along mighty slow, but I'll be thar after awhile."

At one o'clock we were ordered to the attack.  We had to pass through an osage orange hedge
that was worse than the enemy's fire.  Their breastworks were before us.  We yelled, and charged,
and hurrahed, and said booh! booh! we're coming, coming, look out, don't you see us coming?
Why don't you let us hear the cannon's opening roar?  Why don't you rattle a few old muskets
over there at us?  Booh! booh! we are coming.  Tag.  We have done got to your breastworks.
Now, we tagged first, why don't you tag back?  A Yankee seems to be lying on the other side
of the breastworks sunning himself, and raising himself on his elbow, says, "Fool who with
your fatty bread?  W-e are too o-l-d a-birds to be caught with that kind of chaff.  We don't
want any of that kind of pie. What you got there wouldn't make a mouthful.  Bring on your pudding
and pound-cake, and then we will talk to ye."

General Granberry, who, poor fellow, was killed in the butchery at Franklin afterwards, goes
up to the breastworks, and says, "Look here, Yank, we're fighting, sure enough."

Meynheer Dutchman comes out; and says, "Ish dot so?  Vel I ish peen von leetle pit hungry dish
morning, und I yust gobble you up for mein lunch pefore tinner dime.  Dot ish der kind of mans
vot I bees!"

Now, reader, that is a fine description of this memorable battle. That's it--no more, no less. [FN#98]
The So To Sect was not wanting in competent teachers, for it might take pride in its Ten-kei (1648-1699),
whose religious insight was unsurpassed by any other master of the age; in its Shi getsu, who
was a commentator of various Zen books, and died 1764; in its Men-zan (1683-1769), whose indefatigable
works on the exposition of So To Zen are invaluable indeed; and its Getsu-shu (1618-1696) and
Man-zan (1635-1714), to whose labours the reformation of the faith is ascribed. Similarly, the
Rin Zai Sect, in its Gu-do (1579-1661); in its Isshi (1608-1646); in its Taku-an (1573-1645),
the favourite tutor of the third Shogun, Iye-mitsu; in its Haku-in
(1667-1751), the greatest of the Rin Zai masters of the day, to whose
extraordinary personality and labour the revival of the sect is due;
and its To-rei (1721-1792), a learned disciple of Haku-in.

Of the important Zen books written by these masters, Ro-ji-tan-kin,
by Ten-kei; Men-zan-ko-roku, by Men-zan; Ya-sen-kwan-wa, Soku-ko-roku,
Kwai-an-koku-go, Kei-so-doku-zui, by Haku-in; Shu-mon-mu-jin-to-ron,
by To-rei, are well known.

It was about the middle of this period that the forty-seven vassals of Ako displayed the spirit of
the Samurai by their perseverance, self-sacrifice, and loyalty, taking vengeance on the enemy
of their deceased lord. The leader of these men, the tragic tales of whom can never be told or heard
without tears, was Yoshi-o (O-ishi died 1702), a believer of Zen,[FN#99] and his tomb in the cemetery of the
temple of Sen-gaku-ji, Tokyo, is daily visited by hundreds of his
admirers.

Most of the professional swordsmen forming a class in these days
practised Zen.

Mune-nori[FN#100](Ya-gyu), for instance, established his reputation
by the combination of Zen and the fencing art.

[FN#99] See "Zen Shu," No. 151.

[FN#100] He is known as Ta-jima, who practised Zen under Taku-an.

The following story about Boku-den (Tsuka-hara), a great swordsman, fully illustrates this tendency:

"On
a certain occasion Boku-den took a ferry to cross over the Yabase in the province of Omi. There
was among the passengers a Samurai, tall and square-shouldered, apparently an experienced fencer.
He behaved rudely toward the fellow-passengers, and talked so much of his own dexterity in the art
that Boku-den, provoked by his brag, broke silence. 'You seem, my friend, to practise the art in order
to conquer the enemy, but I do it in order not to be conquered,' said Boku-den. 'O monk,' demanded
the man, as Boku-den was clad like a Zen monk, 'what school of swordsmanship do you belong
to?' Well, mine is the Conquering-enemy-without-fighting-school.' 'Don't tell a fib, old monk. If you
could conquer the enemy without fighting, what then is your sword for?' 'My sword is not to kill, but
to save,' said Boku-den, making use of Zen phrases; 'my art is transmitted from mind to mind.'
'Now then, come, monk,' challenged the man, 'let us see, right at this moment, who is the victor,
you or I.' The gauntlet was picked up without hesitation. 'But we must not fight,' said Boku-den,
'in the ferry, lest the passengers should be hurt. Yonder a small island you see. There we
shall decide the contest.' To this proposal the man agreed, and the boat was pulled to that island.
No sooner had the boat reached the shore than the man jumped over to the land, and cried:
'Come on, monk, quick, quick!' Boku-den, however, slowly rising, said: 'Do not hasten to lose your head.
It is a rule of my school to prepare slowly for fighting, keeping the soul in the abdomen.'
So saying he snatched the oar from the boatman and rowed the boat back to some distance, leaving the
man alone, who, stamping the ground madly, cried out: 'O, you fly, monk, you coward. Come, old
monk!' 'Now listen,' said Boku-den, 'this is the secret art of the
Conquering-enemy-without-fighting-school. Beware that you do not forget
it, nor tell it to anybody else.' Thus, getting rid of the brawling
fellow, Boku-den and his fellow-passengers safely landed on the opposite
shore."[FN#101] The O Baku School of Zen was introduced by Yin Yuen
(In-gen) who crossed the sea in 1654, accompanied by many able disciples.[FN#102]
The Shogunate gave him a tract of land at Uji, near Kyo-to, and in
1659 he built there a monastery noted for its Chinese style of architecture,
now known as O-baku-san.

One of those ricochet cannon balls struck my old friend, N. B. Shepard. Shep was one of the
bravest and best soldiers who ever shouldered a musket.  It is true, he was but a private soldier,
but he was the best friend I had during the whole war.  In intellect he was far ahead of most
of the generals, and would have honored and adorned the name of general in the C. S. A.  He
was ever brave and true.  He followed our cause to the end, yet all the time an invalid.  Today
he is languishing on a bed of pain and sickness, caused by that ball at Jonesboro.  The ball
struck him on his knapsack, knocking him twenty feet, and breaking one or two ribs and dislocating
his shoulder.  He was one of God's noblemen, indeed-- none braver, none more generous.  God
alone controls our destinies, and surely He who watched over us and took care of us in those
dark and bloody days, will not forsake us now.  God alone fits and prepares for us the things
that are in store for us.  There is none so wise as to foresee the future or foretell the end.
God sometimes seems afar off, but He will never leave or forsake anyone who puts his trust
in Him.  The day will come when the good as well as evil will all meet on one broad platform,
to be rewarded for the deeds done in the body, when time shall end, with the gates of eternity
closed, and the key fastened to the girdle of God forever.  Pardon me, reader, I have wandered.
But when my mind reverts to those scenes and times, I seem to live in another age and time
and I sometime think that "after us comes the end of the universe."

I am not trying to moralize, I am only trying to write a few scenes and incidents that came
under the observation of a poor old Rebel webfoot private soldier in those stormy days and
times.  Histories tell the great facts, while I only tell of the minor incidents.

But on this day of which I now write, we can see in plain view more than a thousand Yankee
battle-flags waving on top the red earthworks, not more than four hundred yards off.  Every
private soldier there knew that General Hood's army was scattered all the way from Jonesboro
to Atlanta, a distance of twenty-five miles, without any order, discipline, or spirit to do
anything.  We could hear General Stewart, away back yonder in Atlanta, still blowing up arsenals,
and smashing things generally, while Stephen D. Lee was somewhere between Lovejoy Station and
Macon, scattering.  And here was but a demoralized remnant of Cheatham's corps facing the whole
Yankee army.  I have ever thought that Sherman was a poor general, not to have captured Hood
and his whole army at that time. But it matters not what I thought, as I am not trying to tell
the ifs and ands, but only of what I saw.  In a word, we had everything against us. The soldiers
distrusted everything.  They were broken down with their long days' hard marching--were almost
dead with hunger and fatigue. Every one was taking his own course, and wishing and praying
to be captured.  Hard and senseless marching, with little sleep, half rations, and lice, had
made their lives a misery.  Each one prayed that all this foolishness might end one way or
the other.  It was too much for human endurance.  Every private soldier knew that such things
as this could not last.  They were willing to ring down the curtain, put out the footlights
and go home.  There was no hope in the future for them.

THEN COMES THE FARCE

From this time forward until the close of the war, everything was a farce as to generalship.
The tragedy had been played, the glory of war had departed.  We all loved Hood; he was such
a clever fellow, and a good man.

Well, Yank, why don't you come on and take us?  We are ready to play quits now.  We have not
anything to let you have, you know; but you can parole us, you know; and we'll go home and
be good boys, you know;-- good Union boys, you know; and we'll be sorry for the war, you know;
and we wouldn't have the negroes in any way, shape, form, or fashion, you know; and the American
continent has no north, no south, no east, no west--boohoo, boohoo, boohoo.

Tut, tut, Johnny; all that sounds tolerable nice, but then you might want some favor from Uncle
Sam, and the teat is too full of milk at the present time for us to turn loose.  It's a sugar
teat, Johnny, and just begins to taste sweet; and, besides, Johnny, once or twice you have
put us to a little trouble; we haven't forgot that; and we've got you down now--our foot is
on your neck, and you must feel our boot heel.  We want to stamp you a little--"that's what's
the matter with Hannah."  And, Johnny, you've fought us hard.  You are a brave boy; you are
proud and aristocratic, Johnny, and we are going to crush your cursed pride and spirit.  And
now, Johnny, come here; I've something to whisper in your ear.  Hold your ear close down here,
so that no one can hear: "We want big fat offices when the war is over.  Some of us want to
be presidents, some governors, some go to congress, and be big ministers to 'Urup,' and all
those kind of things, Johnny, you know.  Just go back to your camp, Johnny, chase round, put
on a bold front, flourish your trumpets, blow your horns.  And, Johnny, we don't want to be
hard on you, and we'll tell you what we'll do for you.  Away back in your territory, between
Columbia and Nashville, is the most beautiful country, and the most fertile, and we have lots
of rations up there, too.  Now, you just go up there, Johnny, and stay until we want you. 
We ain't done with you yet, my boy-- O, no, Johnny.  And, another thing, Johnny; you will find
there between Mt. Pleasant and Columbia, the most beautiful country that the sun of heaven
ever shone upon; and half way between the two places is St. John's Church.  Its tower is all
covered over with a beautiful vine of ivy; and, Johnny, you know that in olden times it was
the custom to entwine a wreath of ivy around the brows of victorious generals.  We have no
doubt that many of your brave generals will express a wish, when they pass by, to be buried
beneath the ivy vine that shades so gracefully and beautifully the wall of this grand old church.
And, Johnny, you will find a land of beauty and plenty, and when you get there, just put on
as much style as you like; just pretend, for our sake, you know, that you are a bully boy with
a glass eye, and that you are the victorious army that has returned to free an oppressed people.
We will allow you this, Johnny, so that we will be the greater when we want you, Johnny.  And
now, Johnny, we did not want to tell you what we are going to say to you now, but will, so
that you'll feel bad.  Sherman wants to 'march to the sea, while the world looks on and wonders.'
He wants to desolate the land and burn up your towns, to show what a coward he is, and how
dastardly, and one of our boys wants to write a piece of poetry about it.  But that ain't all,
Johnny.  You know that you fellows have got a great deal of cotton at Augusta, Savannah, Charleston,
Mobile, and other places, and cotton is worth two dollars a pound in gold, and as Christmas
is coming, we want to go down there for some of that cotton to make a Christmas gift to old
Abe and old Clo, don't you see?  O, no, Johnny, we don't want to end the war just yet awhile.
The sugar is mighty sweet in the teat, and we want to suck a while longer.  Why, sir, we want
to rob and then burn every house in Georgia and South Carolina.  We will get millions of dollars
by robbery alone, don't you see?"

PALMETTO

    "Hark from the tomb that doleful sound,
     My ears attend the cry."

General J. B. Hood established his headquarters at Palmetto, Georgia, and here is where we
were visited by his honor, the Honorable Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States
of America, and the Right Honorable Robert Toombs, secretary of state under the said Davis.
Now, kind reader, don't ask me to write history.  I know nothing of history.  See the histories
for grand movements and military maneuvers. I can only tell of what I saw and how I felt. 
I can remember now General Robert Toombs' and Hon. Jeff Davis' speeches.  I remember how funny
Toombs' speech was.  He kept us all laughing, by telling us how quick we were going to whip
the Yankees, and how they would skedaddle back across the Ohio river like a dog with a tin
oyster can tied to his tail. Captain Joe P. Lee and I laughed until our sides hurt us.  I can
remember today how I felt.  I felt that Davis and Toombs had come there to bring us glad tidings
of great joy, and to proclaim to us that the ratification of a treaty of peace had been declared
between the Confederate States of America and the United States.  I remember how good and happy
I felt when these two leading statesmen told of when grim visaged war would smooth her wrinkled
front, and when the dark clouds that had so long lowered o'er our own loved South would be
in the deep bosom of the ocean buried. I do not know how others felt, but I can say never before
or since did I feel so grand.  (I came very near saying gloomy and peculiar).  I felt that
I and every other soldier who had stood the storms of battle for nearly four long years, were
now about to be discharged from hard marches, and scant rations, and ragged clothes, and standing
guard, etc.  In fact, the black cloud of war had indeed drifted away, and the beautiful stars
that gemmed the blue ether above, smiling, said, "Peace, peace, peace." I felt bully, I tell
you.  I remember what I thought--that the emblem of our cause was the Palmetto and the Texas
Star, and the town of Palmetto, were symbolical of our ultimate triumph, and that we had unconsciously,
nay, I should say, prophetically, fallen upon Palmetto as the most appropriate place to declare
peace between the two sections.  I was sure Jeff Davis and Bob Toombs had come there for the
purpose of receiving the capitulation of and to make terms with our conquered foes.  I knew
that in every battle we had fought, except Missionary Ridge, we had whipped the Yankees, and
I knew that we had no cavalry, and but little artillery, and only two corps of infantry at
Missionary Ridge, and from the way Jeff and Bob talked, it was enough to make us old private
soldiers feel that swelling of the heart we ne'er should feel again.  I remember that other
high dignitaries and big bugs, then the controlling spirits of the government at Richmond,
visited us, and most all of these high dignitaries shook hands with the boys.  It was all hands
round, swing the corner, and balance your partner.  I shook hands with Hon. Jeff Davis, and
he said howdy, captain; I shook hands with Toombs, and he said howdy, major; and every big
bug that I shook hands with put another star on my collar and chicken guts on my sleeve.  My
pen is inadequate to describe the ecstasy and patriotic feeling that permeated every vein and
fiber of my animated being.  It was Paradise regained.  All the long struggles we had followed
the Palmetto flag through victory and defeat, through storms and rains, and snows and tempest,
along the dusty roads, and on the weary marches, we had been true to our country, our cause,
and our people; and there was a conscious pride within us that when we would return to our
homes, we would go back as conquerors, and that we would receive the plaudits of our people--well
done, good and faithful servants; you have been true and faithful even to the end.

JEFF DAVIS MAKES A SPEECH

    "Sinner come view the ground
     Where you shall shortly lie."

I remember that Hon. Jeff Davis visited the army at this place, and our regiment, the First
Tennessee, serenaded him.  After playing several airs, he came out of General Hood's marquee,
and spoke substantially as follows, as near as I can remember:

"SOLDIERS OF THE FIRST TENNESSEE REGIMENT:--I should have said captains, for every man among
you is fit to be a captain.  I have heard of your acts of bravery on every battlefield during
the whole war, and 'captains,' so far as my wishes are concerned, I today make every man of
you a captain, and I say honestly today, were I a private soldier, I would have no higher ambition
on earth than to belong to the First Tennessee Regiment.  You have been loyal and brave; your
ranks have never yet, in the whole history of the war, been broken, even though the army was
routed; yet, my brave soldiers, Tennesseans all, you have ever remained in your places in the
ranks of the regiment, ever subject to the command of your gallant Colonel Field in every battle,
march, skirmish, in an advance or a retreat.  There are on the books of the war department
at Richmond, the names of a quarter of a million deserters, yet, you, my brave soldiers, captains
all, have remained true and steadfast. I have heard that some have been dissatisfied with the
removal of General Joe E. Johnston and the appointment of General Hood; but, my brave and gallant
heroes, I say, I have done what I thought best for your good. Soon we commence our march to
Kentucky and Tennessee.  Be of good cheer, for within a short while your faces will be turned
homeward, and your feet will press Tennessee soil, and you will tread your native heath, amid
the blue-grass regions and pastures green of your native homes. We will flank General Sherman
out of Atlanta, tear up the railroad and cut off his supplies, and make Atlanta a perfect Moscow
of defeat to the Federal army.  Situated as he is in an enemy's country, with his communications
all cut off, and our army in the rear, he will be powerless, and being fully posted and cognizant
of our position, and of the Federal army, this movement will be the ultima thule, the grand
crowning stroke for our independence, and the conclusion of the war."

ARMISTICE IN NAME ONLY

About this time the Yankees sent us a flag of truce, asking an armistice to move every citizen
of Atlanta south of their lines.  It was granted. They wanted to live in fine houses awhile,
and then rob and burn them, and issued orders for all the citizens of Atlanta to immediately
abandon the city.  They wanted Atlanta for themselves, you see.

For weeks and months the roads were filled with loaded wagons of old and decrepit people, who
had been hunted and hounded from their homes with a relentless cruelty worse, yea, much worse,
than ever blackened the pages of barbaric or savage history.  I remember assisting in unloading
our wagons that General Hood, poor fellow, had kindly sent in to bring out the citizens of
Atlanta to a little place called Rough-and-Ready about half way between Palmetto and Atlanta.
Every day I would look on at the suffering of delicate ladies, old men, and mothers with little
children clinging to them, crying, "O, mamma, mamma," and old women, and tottering old men,
whose gray hairs should have protected them from the savage acts of Yankee hate and Puritan
barbarity; and I wondered how on earth our generals, including those who had resigned--that
is where the shoe pinches--could quietly look on at this dark, black, and damning insult to
our people, and not use at least one effort to rescue them from such terrible and unmitigated
cruelty, barbarity, and outrage.

In the great crisis of the war, Hardee, Kirby Smith, Breckinridge, and many brigadiers, resigned,
thus throwing all the responsibility upon poor Hood.

[Author's note: In the Southern army the question was, who ranked? Not who was the best general,
or colonel, or captain--but "who ranked?" The article of rank finally got down to corporals;
and rank finally bursted the government.]

I desire to state that they left the army on account of rank.  O, this thing of rank!

Many other generals resigned, and left us privates in the lurch.  But the gallant Cheatham,
Cleburne, Granberry, Gist, Strahl, Adams, John C. Brown, William B. Bate, Stewart, Lowery,
and others, stuck to us to the last.

The sinews of war were strained to their utmost tension.

A SCOUT

At this place I was detailed as a regular scout, which position I continued to hold during
our stay at Palmetto.  It was a good thing. It beat camp guard all hollow.  I had answered
"hear" at roll-call ten thousand times in these nearly four years.  But I had sorter got used
to the darn thing.

Now, reader, I will give you a few chapters on the kind of fun I had for awhile.  Our instructions
were simply to try and find out all we could about the Yankees, and report all movements.

One dark, rainy evening, while out as a scout, and, after traveling all day, I was returning
from the Yankee outposts at Atlanta, and had captured a Yankee prisoner, who I then had under
my charge, and whom I afterwards carried and delivered to General Hood.  He was a considerable
muggins, and a great coward, in fact, a Yankee deserter.  I soon found out that there was no
harm in him, as he was tired of war anyhow, and was anxious to go to prison.  We went into
an old log cabin near the road until the rain would be over.  I was standing in the cabin door
looking at the rain drops fall off the house and make little bubbles in the drip, and listening
to the pattering on the clapboard roof, when happening to look up, not fifty yards off, I discovered
a regiment of Yankee cavalry approaching.  I knew it would be utterly impossible for me to
get away unseen, and I did not know what to do.  The Yankee prisoner was scared almost to death.
I said, "Look, look!"  I turned in the room, and found the planks of the floor were loose.
I raised two of them, and Yank and I slipped through.  I replaced the planks, and could peep
out beneath the sill of the house, and see the legs of the horses.  They passed on and did
not come to the old house.  They were at least a half hour in passing.  At last the main regiment
had all passed, and I saw the rear guard about to pass, when I heard the captain say, "Go and
look in that old house."  Three fellows detached themselves from the command and came dashing
up to the old house.  I thought, "Gone up, sure," as I was afraid the Yankee prisoner would
make his presence known.  When the three men came up, they pushed open the door and looked
around, and one fellow said "Booh!"  They then rode off.  But that "Booh!"  I was sure I was
caught, but I was not.

"WHAT IS THIS REBEL DOING HERE?"

I would go up to the Yankee outpost, and if some popinjay of a tacky officer didn't come along,
we would have a good time.  One morning I was sitting down to eat a good breakfast with the
Yankee outpost.  They were cavalry, and they were mighty clever and pleasant fellows.  I looked
down the road toward Atlanta, and not fifty yards from the outpost, I saw a body of infantry
approaching.  I don't know why I didn't run.  I ought to have done so, but didn't.  I stayed
there until this body of infantry came up.  They had come to relieve the cavalry.  It was a
detail of negro soldiers, headed by the meanest looking white man as their captain, I ever saw.

In very abrupt words he told the cavalry that he had come to take their place, and they were
ordered to report back to their command.  Happening to catch sight of me, he asked, "What is
this Rebel doing here?"  One of the men spoke up and tried to say something in my favor, but
the more he said the more the captain of the blacks would get mad.  He started toward me two
or three times.  He was starting, I could see by the flush of his face, to take hold of me,
anyhow.  The cavalrymen tried to protest, and said a few cuss words.  The captain of the blacks
looks back very mad at the cavalry.  Here was my opportunity, now or never.  Uncle negro looked
on, not seeming to care for the cavalry, captain, or for me. I took up my gun very gently and
cocked it.  I had the gentleman. I had made up my mind if he advanced one step further, that
he was a dead man.  When he turned to look again, it was a look of surprise.  His face was
as red as a scalded beet, but in a moment was as white as a sheet. He was afraid to turn his
head to give a command.  The cavalry motioned their hands at me, as much as to say, "Run, Johnny,
run."  The captain of the blacks fell upon his face, and I broke and ran like a quarter-horse.
I never saw or heard any more of the captain of the blacks or his guard afterward.

"LOOK OUT, BOYS."

One night, five of us scouts, I thought all strangers to me, put up at an old gentleman's house.
I took him for a Catholic priest.  His head was shaved and he had on a loose gown like a lady's
dress, and a large cord and tassel tied around his waist, from which dangled a large bunch
of keys.  He treated us very kindly and hospitably, so far as words and politeness went, but
we had to eat our own rations and sleep on our own blankets.

At bedtime, he invited us to sleep in a shed in front of his double log cabin.  We all went
in, lay down, and slept.  A little while before day, the old priest came in and woke us up,
and said he thought he saw in the moonlight a detachment of cavalry coming down the road from
toward the Rebel lines.  One of our party jumped up and said there was a company of cavalry
coming that way, and then all four broke toward the old priest's room.  I jumped up, put on
one boot, and holding the other in my hand, I stepped out in the yard, with my hat and coat
off--both being left in the room.  A Yankee captain stepped up to me and said, "Are you No.
200?" I answered very huskily, "No, sir, I am not."  He then went on in the house, and on looking
at the fence, I saw there was at least two hundred Yankee cavalry right at me.  I did not know
what to do.  My hat, coat, gun, cartridge-box, and knapsack were all in the room.  I was afraid
to stay there, and I was afraid to give the alarm.  I soon saw almost every one of the Yankees
dismount, and then I determined to give the alarm and run.  I hallooed out as loud as I could,
"Look out, boys," and broke and run.  I had to jump over a garden picket fence, and as I lit
on the other side, bang! bang! bang! was fired right after me.  They stayed there but a short
time, and I went back and got my gun and other accouterments.

AM CAPTURED

When I left the old priest's house, it was then good day--nearly sun up-- and I had started
back toward our lines, and had walked on about half a mile, not thinking of danger, when four
Yankees jumped out in the middle of the road and said, "Halt, there!  O, yes, we've got you
at last." I was in for it.  What could I do?  Their guns were cocked and leveled at me, and
if I started to run, I would be shot, so I surrendered.  In a very short time the regiment
of Yankee cavalry came up, and the first greeting I had was, "Hello, you ain't No. 200, are
you?"  I was taken prisoner.  They, I thought, seemed to be very gleeful about it, and I had
to march right back by the old priest's house, and they carried me to the headquarters of General
Stephen Williams.  As soon as he saw me, he said, "Who have you there--a prisoner, or a deserter?"
They said a prisoner. From what command?  No one answered.  Finally he asked me what command
I belonged to.  I told him the Confederate States army.  Then, said he, "What is your name?"
Said I, "General, if that would be any information, I would have no hesitancy in giving it.
But I claim your protection as a prisoner of war.  I am a private soldier in the Confederate
States army, and I don't feel authorized to answer any question you may ask."  He looked at
me with a kind of quizical look, and said, "That is the way with you Rebels.  I have never
yet seen one of you, but thought what little information he might possess to be of value to
the Union forces." Then one of the men spoke up and said, "I think he is a spy or a scout,
and does not belong to the regular army."  He then gave me a close look, and said, "Ah, ah,
a guerrilla," and ordered me to be taken to the provost marshal's office.  They carried me
to a large, fine house, upstairs, and I was politely requested to take a seat.  I sat there
some moments, when a dandy-looking clerk of a fellow came up with a book in his hand, and said,
"The name."  I appeared not to understand, and he said, "The name."  I still looked at him,
and he said, "The name." I did not know what he meant by "The name."  Finally, he closed the
book with a slam and started off, and said I, "Did you want to find out my name?"  He said,
"I asked you three times."  I said, "When?  If you ever asked me my name, I have never heard
it."  But he was too mad to listen to anything else.  I was carried to another room in the
same building, and locked up.  I remained there until about dark, when a man brought me a tolerably
good supper, and then left me alone to my own meditations. I could hear the sentinels at all
times of the night calling out the hours.  I did not sleep a wink, nor even lay down.  I had
made up my mind to escape, if there was any possible chance.  About three o'clock everything
got perfectly still.  I went to the window, and it had a heavy bolt across it, and I could
not open it.  I thought I would try the door, but I knew that a guard was stationed in the
hall, for I could see a dim light glimmer through the key-hole.  I took my knife and unscrewed
the catch in which the lock was fastened, and soon found out that I could open the door; but
then there was the guard, standing at the main entrance down stairs.  I peeped down, and he
was quietly walking to and fro on his beat, every time looking to the hall.  I made up my mind
by his measured tread as to how often he would pass the door, and one time, after he had just
passed, I came out in the hall, and started to run down the steps.  About midway down the steps,
one of them cracked very loud, but I ran on down in the lower hall and ran into a room, the
door of which was open.  The sentinel came back to the entrance of the hall, and listened a
few minutes, and then moved on again.  I went to the window and raised the sash, but the blind
was fastened with a kind of patent catch.  I gave one or two hard pushes, and felt it move.
After that I made one big lunge, and it flew wide open, but it made a noise that woke up every
sentinel.  I jumped out in the yard, and gained the street, and, on looking back, I heard the
alarm given, and lights began to glimmer everywhere, but, seeing no one directly after me,
I made tracks toward Peachtree creek, and went on until I came to the old battlefield of July
22nd, and made my way back to our lines.

CHAPTER XV

ADVANCE INTO TENNESSEE

GENERAL HOOD MAKES A FLANK MOVEMENT

After remaining a good long time at Jonesboro, the news came that we were going to flank Atlanta.
We flanked it.  A flank means "a go around."

Yank says, "What you doing, Johnny?"

Johnny says, "We are flanking."

Yank says, "Bully for you!"

We passed around Atlanta, crossed the Chattahoochee, and traveled back over the same route
on which we had made the arduous campaign under Joe Johnston.  It took us four months in the
first instance, and but little longer than as many days in the second, to get back to Dalton,
our starting point.  On our way up there, the Yankee cavalry followed us to see how we were
getting along with the flanking business.  We had pontoons made for the purpose of crossing
streams.  When we would get to a stream, the pontoons would be thrown across, and Hood's army
would cross.  Yank would halloo over and say, "Well, Johnny, have you got everything across?"
"Yes," would be the answer.  "Well, we want these old pontoons, as you will not need them again."
And they would take them.

We passed all those glorious battlefields, that have been made classic in history, frequently
coming across the skull of some poor fellow sitting on top of a stump, grinning a ghastly smile;
also the bones of horses along the road, and fences burned and destroyed, and occasionally
the charred remains of a once fine dwelling house.  Outside of these occasional reminders we
could see no evidence of the desolation of the track of an invading army.  The country looked
like it did at first. Citizens came out, and seemed glad to see us, and would divide their
onions, garlic, and leek with us.  The soldiers were in good spirits, but it was the spirit
of innocence and peace, not war and victory.

Where the railroads would cross a river, a block-house had been erected, and the bridge was
guarded by a company of Federals.  But we always flanked these little affairs.  We wanted bigger
and better meat.

WE CAPTURE DALTON

When we arrived at Dalton, we had a desire to see how the old place looked; not that we cared
anything about it, but we just wanted to take a last farewell look at the old place.  We saw
the United States flag flying from the ramparts, and thought that Yank would probably be asleep
or catching lice, or maybe engaged in a game of seven-up.  So we sent forward a physician with
some white bandages tied to the end of a long pole.  He walked up and says, "Hello, boys!"
"What is it, boss?" "Well, boys, we've come for you."  "Hyah, ha; hyah, ha; hyah, ha; a hee,
he, he, he; if it ain't old master, sho."  The place was guarded by negro troops.  We marched
the black rascals out.  They were mighty glad to see us, and we were kindly disposed to them.
We said, "Now, boys, we don't want the Yankees to get mad at you, and to blame you; so, just
let's get out here on the railroad track, and tear it up, and pile up the crossties, and then
pile the iron on top of them, and we'll set the thing a-fire, and when the Yankees come back
they will say, 'What a bully fight them nagers did make.'"  (A Yankee always says "nager").
Reader, you should have seen how that old railroad did flop over, and how the darkies did sweat,
and how the perfume did fill the atmosphere.

But there were some Yankee soldiers in a block-house at Ringgold Gap, who thought they would
act big.  They said that Sherman had told them not to come out of that block-house, any how.
But General William B. Bate begun to persuade the gentlemen, by sending a few four-pound parrot
"feelers."  Ah! those feelers!

They persuaded eloquently.  They persuaded effectually--those feelers did.  The Yanks soon
surrendered.  The old place looked natural like, only it seemed to have a sort of graveyard
loneliness about it.

A MAN IN THE WELL

On leaving Dalton, after a day's march, we had stopped for the night. Our guns were stacked,
and I started off with a comrade to get some wood to cook supper with.  We were walking along,
he a little in the rear, when he suddenly disappeared.  I could not imagine what had become
of him.  I looked everywhere.  The earth seemed to have opened and swallowed him.  I called,
and called, but could get no answer.  Presently I heard a groan that seemed to come out of
the bowels of the earth; but, as yet, I could not make out where he was.  Going back to camp,
I procured a light, and after whooping and hallooing for a long time, I heard another groan,
this time much louder than before.  The voice appeared to be overhead.  There was no tree or
house to be seen; and then again the voice seemed to answer from under the ground, in a hollow,
sepulchral tone, but I could not tell where he was.  But I was determined to find him, so I
kept on hallooing and he answering.  I went to the place where the voice appeared to come out
of the earth.  I was walking along rather thoughtlessly and carelessly, when one inch more
and I would have disappeared also.  Right before me I saw the long dry grass all bending toward
a common center, and I knew that it was an old well, and that my comrade had fallen in it.
But how to get him out was the unsolved problem.  I ran back to camp to get assistance, and
everybody had a great curiosity to see "the man in the well."  They would get chunks of fire
and shake over the well, and, peeping down, would say, "Well, he's in there," and go off, and
others would come and talk about his "being in there."  The poor fellow stayed in that well
all night.  The next morning we got a long rope from a battery and let it down in the well,
and soon had him on terra firma.  He was worse scared than hurt.

TUSCUMBIA

We arrived and remained at Tuscumbia several days, awaiting the laying of the pontoons across
the Tennessee river at Florence, Alabama, and then we all crossed over.  While at Tuscumbia,
John Branch and I saw a nice sweet potato patch, that looked very tempting to a hungry Rebel.
We looked all around, and thought that the coast was clear.  We jumped over the fence, and
commenced grabbling for the sweet potatoes.  I had got my haversack full, and had started off,
when we heard, "Halt, there."  I looked around, and there was a soldier guard.  We broke and
run like quarter-horses, and the guard pulled down on us just as we jumped the fence.  I don't
think his gun was loaded, though, because we did not hear the ball whistle.

We marched from Decatur to Florence.  Here the pontoon bridges were nicely and beautifully
stretched across the river.  We walked over this floating bridge, and soon found ourselves
on the Tennessee side of Tennessee river.

In driving a great herd of cattle across the pontoon, the front one got stubborn, and the others,
crowding up all in one bulk, broke the line that held the pontoon, and drowned many of the
drove.  We had beef for supper that night.

How every pulse did beat and leap, and how every heart did throb with emotions of joy, which
seemed nearly akin to heaven, when we received the glad intelligence of our onward march toward
the land of promise, and of our loved ones.  The cold November winds coming off the mountains
of the northwest were blowing right in our faces, and nearly cutting us in two.

We were inured to privations and hardships; had been upon every march, in every battle, in
every skirmish, in every advance, in every retreat, in every victory, in every defeat.  We
had laid under the burning heat of a tropical sun; had made the cold, frozen earth our bed,
with no covering save the blue canopy of heaven; had braved dangers, had breasted floods; had
seen our comrades slain upon our right and our left hand; had heard guns that carried death
in their missiles; had heard the shouts of the charge; had seen the enemy in full retreat and
flying in every direction; had heard the shrieks and groans of the wounded and dying; had seen
the blood of our countrymen dyeing the earth and enriching the soil; had been hungry when there
was nothing to eat; had been in rags and tatters. We had marked the frozen earth with bloody
and unshod feet; had been elated with victory and crushed by defeat; had seen and felt the
pleasure of the life of a soldier, and had drank the cup to its dregs.  Yes, we had seen it
all, and had shared in its hopes and its fears; its love and its hate; its good and its bad;
its virtue and its vice; its glories and its shame.  We had followed the successes and reverses
of the flag of the Lost Cause through all these years of blood and strife.

I was simply one of hundreds of thousands in the same fix.  The tale is the same that every
soldier would tell, except Jim Whitler.  Jim had dodged about, and had escaped being conscripted
until "Hood's raid," he called it.  Hood's army was taking up every able-bodied man and conscripting
him into the army.  Jim Whitler had got a position as over-seer on a large plantation, and
had about a hundred negroes under his surveillance.  The army had been passing a given point,
and Jim was sitting quietly on the fence looking at the soldiers.  The conscripting squad nabbed
him.  Jim tried to beg off, but all entreaty was in vain. He wanted to go by home and tell
his wife and children good-bye, and to get his clothes.  It was no go.  But, after awhile,
Jim says, "Gentlemen, ay, Ganny, the law!"  You see, Jim "knowed" the law.  He didn't know
B from a bull's foot in the spelling-book.  But he said, the law. Now, when anyone says anything
about the "law," every one stops to listen.  Jim says, "Ah, Ganny, the law" (laying great stress
upon the law)--"allows every man who has twenty negroes to stay at home.  Ah, Ganny!"  Those
old soldiers had long, long ago, forgotten about that old "law" of the long gone past; but
Jim had treasured it up in his memory, lo! these many years, and he thought it would serve
him now, as it had, no doubt, frequently done in the past.  The conscript officer said, "Law
or no law--you fall into line, take this gun and cartridge-box, and march!"  Jim's spirits
sank; his hopes vanished into air.  Jim was soon in line, and was tramping to the music of
the march.  He stayed with the company two days.  The third day it was reported that the Yankees
had taken position on the Murfreesboro pike.  A regiment was sent to the attack.  It was Jim's
regiment.  He advanced bravely into battle. The minnie balls began to whistle around his ears.
The regiment was ordered to fire.  He hadn't seen anything to shoot at, but he blazed away.
He loaded and fired the second time, when they were ordered to retreat.  He didn't see anything
to run from, but the other soldiers began to run, and Jim run, too.  Jim had not learned the
word "halt!" and just kept on running.  He run, and he run, and he run, and he kept on running
until he got home, when he jumped in his door and shouted, "Whoopee, Rhoda!  Aye, Ganny, I've
served four years in the Rebel army."

CHAPTER XVI

BATTLES IN TENNESSEE

COLUMBIA

    "This is my own, my native land."

Once more the Maury Grays are permitted to put their feet upon their native heath, and to revisit
their homes and friends, after having followed their tattered, and torn, and battle-riddled
flag, which they had borne aloft for four long years, on every march, and in every battle that
had been fought by the Army of Tennessee.  We were a mere handful of devoted braves, who had
stood by our colors when sometimes it seemed that God himself had forsaken us.  But, parents,
here are your noble and brave sons; and, ladies, four years ago you gave us this flag, and
we promised you "That we would come back with the flag as victors, or we would come not at
all."  We have been true to our promise and our trust.  On every battlefield the flag that
you entrusted to our hands has been borne aloft by brave and heroic men, amid shot and shell,
bloody battle, and death. We have never forsaken our colors.  Are we worthy to be called the
sons of old Maury county?  Or have we fought in vain?  Have our efforts been appreciated, or
have four years of our lives been wasted, while we were battling for constitutional government,
the supremacy of our laws over centralization, and our rights, as guaranteed to us by the blood
of our forefathers on the battlefields of the Revolution?  It is for you to make up your verdict.
If our lives as soldiers have been a failure, we can but bow our heads on our bosoms, and say,
"Surely, four years of our lives have been given for naught, and our efforts to please you
have been in vain."

Yet, the invader's foot is still on our soil, but there beats in our bosoms the blood of brave
and patriotic men, and we will continue to follow our old and war-worn and battle-riddled flag
until it goes down forever.

The Maury Grays, commanded by Captain A. M. Looney, left Columbia, four years ago, with 120
men.  How many of those 120 original members are with the company today?  Just twelve.  Company
H has twenty members, but some of this number had subsequently enlisted.  But we twelve will
stick to our colors till she goes down forever, and until five more of this number fall dead
and bleeding on the battlefield.

A FIASCO

When we arrived in sight of Columbia, we found the Yankees still in possession of the town,
fortified and determined to resist our advance. We send forward a "feeler," and the "feeler"
reports back very promptly, "Yes, the Yankees are there."  Well, if that be the case, we'll
just make a flank movement.  We turn off the main turnpike at J. E. R. Carpenter's, and march
through the cedars, and cross Duck river at Davis' ferry, on pontoon bridges, near Lowell's
mill.  We pass on, and cross Rutherford creek, near Burick's mill, about three o'clock in the
afternoon.  We had marched through fields in the heavy mud, and the men, weary and worn out,
were just dragging themselves along, passing by the old Union Seminary, and then by Mr. Fred
Thompson's, until we came to the Rally Hill turnpike-- it being then nearly dark--we heard
some skirmishing, but, exhausted as we were, we went into bivouac.  The Yankees, it seems to
me, might have captured the whole of us.  But that is a matter of history.  But I desire to
state that no blunder was made by either Generals Cheatham or Stewart, neither of whom ever
failed to come to time.  Jeff Davis is alone responsible for the blunder.  About two hours
after sun up the next morning we received the order to "Fall in, fall in, quick, make haste,
hurrah, promptly, men; each rank count two; by the right flank, quick time, march; keep promptly
closed up."  Everything indicated an immediate attack.  When we got to the turnpike near Spring
Hill, lo! and behold; wonder of wonders! the whole Yankee army had passed during the night.
The bird had flown.  We made a quick and rapid march down the turnpike, finding Yankee guns
and knapsacks, and now and then a broken down straggler, also two pieces of howitzer cannon,
and at least twenty broken wagons along the road.  Everything betokened a rout and a stampede
of the Yankee army.  Double quick!  Forrest is in the rear.  Now for fun. All that we want
to do now is to catch the blue-coated rascals, ha! ha! We all want to see the surrender, ha!
ha!  Double quick!  A rip, rip, rip; wheuf; pant, pant, pant.  First one man drops out, and
then another. The Yankees are routed and running, and Forrest has crossed Harpeth river in
the rear of Franklin.  Hurrah, men! keep closed up; we are going to capture Schofield.  Forrest
is in the rear; never mind the straggler and cannon.  Kerflop we come against the breastworks
at Franklin.

FRANKLIN

    "The death-angel gathers its last harvest."

Kind reader, right here my pen, and courage, and ability fail me. I shrink from butchery. 
Would to God I could tear the page from these memoirs and from my own memory.  It is the blackest
page in the history of the war of the Lost Cause.  It was the bloodiest battle of modern times
in any war.  It was the finishing stroke to the independence of the Southern Confederacy. 
I was there.  I saw it.  My flesh trembles, and creeps, and crawls when I think of it today.
My heart almost ceases to beat at the horrid recollection.  Would to God that I had never witnessed
such a scene!

I cannot describe it.  It beggars description.  I will not attempt to describe it.  I could
not.  The death-angel was there to gather its last harvest.  It was the grand coronation of
death.  Would that I could turn the page.  But I feel, though I did so, that page would still
be there, teeming with its scenes of horror and blood.  I can only tell of what I saw.

Our regiment was resting in the gap of a range of hills in plain view of the city of Franklin.
We could see the battle-flags of the enemy waving in the breeze.  Our army had been depleted
of its strength by a forced march from Spring Hill, and stragglers lined the road.  Our artillery
had not yet come up, and could not be brought into action.  Our cavalry was across Harpeth
river, and our army was but in poor condition to make an assault.  While resting on this hillside,
I saw a courier dash up to our commanding general, B. F. Cheatham, and the word, "Attention!"
was given. I knew then that we would soon be in action.  Forward, march.  We passed over the
hill and through a little skirt of woods.

The enemy were fortified right across the Franklin pike, in the suburbs of the town.  Right
here in these woods a detail of skirmishers was called for.  Our regiment was detailed.  We
deployed as skirmishers, firing as we advanced on the left of the turnpike road.  If I had
not been a skirmisher on that day, I would not have been writing this today, in the year of
our Lord 1882.

It was four o'clock on that dark and dismal December day when the line of battle was formed,
and those devoted heroes were ordered forward, to

    "Strike for their altars and their fires,
     For the green graves of their sires,
     For God and their native land."

As they marched on down through an open field toward the rampart of blood and death, the Federal
batteries began to open and mow down and gather into the garner of death, as brave, and good,
and pure spirits as the world ever saw.  The twilight of evening had begun to gather as a precursor
of the coming blackness of midnight darkness that was to envelop a scene so sickening and horrible
that it is impossible for me to describe it.  "Forward, men," is repeated all along the line.
A sheet of fire was poured into our very faces, and for a moment we halted as if in despair,
as the terrible avalanche of shot and shell laid low those brave and gallant heroes, whose
bleeding wounds attested that the struggle would be desperate.  Forward, men!  The air loaded
with death-dealing missiles.  Never on this earth did men fight against such terrible odds.
It seemed that the very elements of heaven and earth were in one mighty uproar.  Forward, men!
And the blood spurts in a perfect jet from the dead and wounded.  The earth is red with blood.
It runs in streams, making little rivulets as it flows.  Occasionally there was a little lull
in the storm of battle, as the men were loading their guns, and for a few moments it seemed
as if night tried to cover the scene with her mantle. The death-angel shrieks and laughs and
old Father Time is busy with his sickle, as he gathers in the last harvest of death, crying,
More, more, more! while his rapacious maw is glutted with the slain.

But the skirmish line being deployed out, extending a little wider than the battle did--passing
through a thicket of small locusts, where Brown, orderly sergeant of Company B, was killed--we
advanced on toward the breastworks, on and on.  I had made up my mind to die--felt glorious.
We pressed forward until I heard the terrific roar of battle open on our right.  Cleburne's
division was charging their works.  I passed on until I got to their works, and got over on
their (the Yankees') side.  But in fifty yards of where I was the scene was lit up by fires
that seemed like hell itself.  It appeared to be but one line of streaming fire.  Our troops
were upon one side of the breastworks, and the Federals on the other.  I ran up on the line
of works, where our men were engaged. Dead soldiers filled the entrenchments.  The firing was
kept up until after midnight, and gradually died out.  We passed the night where we were. 
But when the morrow's sun began to light up the eastern sky with its rosy hues, and we looked
over the battlefield, O, my God! what did we see!  It was a grand holocaust of death.  Death
had held high carnival there that night.  The dead were piled the one on the other all over
the ground.  I never was so horrified and appalled in my life.  Horses, like men, had died
game on the gory breastworks.  General Adams' horse had his fore feet on one side of the works
and his hind feet on the other, dead.  The general seems to have been caught so that he was
held to the horse's back, sitting almost as if living, riddled, and mangled, and torn with
balls.  General Cleburne's mare had her fore feet on top of the works, dead in that position.
General Cleburne's body was pierced with forty-nine bullets, through and through.  General
Strahl's horse lay by the roadside and the general by his side, both dead, and all his staff.
General Gist, a noble and brave cavalier from South Carolina, was lying with his sword reaching
across the breastworks still grasped in his hand. He was lying there dead.  All dead!  They
sleep in the graveyard yonder at Ashwood, almost in sight of my home, where I am writing today.
They sleep the sleep of the brave.  We love and cherish their memory. They sleep beneath the
ivy-mantled walls of St. John's church, where they expressed a wish to be buried.  The private
soldier sleeps where he fell, piled in one mighty heap.  Four thousand five hundred privates!
all lying side by side in death!  Thirteen generals were killed and wounded. Four thousand
five hundred men slain, all piled and heaped together at one place.  I cannot tell the number
of others killed and wounded. God alone knows that.  We'll all find out on the morning of the
final resurrection.

Kind friends, I have attempted in my poor and feeble way to tell you of this (I can hardly
call it) battle.  It should be called by some other name.  But, like all other battles, it,
too, has gone into history. I leave it with you.  I do not know who was to blame.  It lives
in the memory of the poor old Rebel soldier who went through that trying and terrible ordeal.
We shed a tear for the dead.  They are buried and forgotten.  We meet no more on earth.  But
up yonder, beyond the sunset and the night, away beyond the clouds and tempest, away beyond
the stars that ever twinkle and shine in the blue vault above us, away yonder by the great
white throne, and by the river of life, where the Almighty and Eternal God sits, surrounded
by the angels and archangels and the redeemed of earth, we will meet again and see those noble
and brave spirits who gave up their lives for their country's cause that night at Franklin,
Tennessee.  A life given for one's country is never lost. It blooms again beyond the grave
in a land of beauty and of love. Hanging around the throne of sapphire and gold, a rich garland
awaits the coming of him who died for his country, and when the horologe of time has struck
its last note upon his dying brow, Justice hands the record of life to Mercy, and Mercy pleads
with Jesus, and God, for his sake, receives him in his eternal home beyond the skies at last
and forever.

NASHVILLE

A few more scenes, my dear friends, and we close these memoirs.  We march toward the city of
Nashville.  We camp the first night at Brentwood. The next day we can see the fine old building
of solid granite, looming up on Capitol Hill--the capitol of Tennessee.  We can see the Stars
and Stripes flying from the dome.  Our pulse leaps with pride when we see the grand old architecture.
We can hear the bugle call, and the playing of the bands of the different regiments in the
Federal lines.  Now and then a shell is thrown into our midst from Fort Negley, but no attack
or demonstrations on either side.  We bivouac on the cold and hard-frozen ground, and when
we walk about, the echo of our footsteps sound like the echo of a tombstone.  The earth is
crusted with snow, and the wind from the northwest is piercing our very bones.  We can see
our ragged soldiers, with sunken cheeks and famine-glistening eyes.  Where were our generals?
Alas! there were none.  Not one single general out of Cheatham's division was left--not one.
General B. F. Cheatham himself was the only surviving general of his old division.  Nearly
all our captains and colonels were gone.  Companies mingled with companies, regiments with
regiments, and brigades with brigades.  A few raw-boned horses stood shivering under the ice-covered
trees, nibbling the short, scanty grass.  Being in range of the Federal guns from Fort Negley,
we were not allowed to have fires at night, and our thin and ragged blankets were but poor
protection against the cold, raw blasts of December weather--the coldest ever known. The cold
stars seem to twinkle with unusual brilliancy, and the pale moon seems to be but one vast heap
of frozen snow, which glimmers in the cold gray sky, and the air gets colder by its coming;
our breath, forming in little rays, seems to make a thousand little coruscations that scintillate
in the cold frosty air.  I can tell you nothing of what was going on among the generals.  But
there we were, and that is all that I can tell you.  One morning about daylight our army began
to move. Our division was then on the extreme right wing, and then we were transferred to the
left wing.  The battle had begun.  We were continually moving to our left.  We would build
little temporary breastworks, then we would be moved to another place.  Our lines kept on widening
out, and stretching further and further apart, until it was not more than a skeleton of a skirmish
line from one end to the other.  We started at a run.  We cared for nothing.  Not more than
a thousand yards off, we could see the Yankee cavalry, artillery, and infantry, marching apparently
still further to our left.  We could see regiments advancing at double-quick across the fields,
while, with our army, everything seemed confused.  The private soldier could not see into things.
It seemed to be somewhat like a flock of wild geese when they have lost their leader. We were
willing to go anywhere, or to follow anyone who would lead us. We were anxious to flee, fight,
or fortify.  I have never seen an army so confused and demoralized.  The whole thing seemed
to be tottering and trembling.  When, Halt! Front! Right dress! and Adjutant McKinney reads
us the following order:

"SOLDIERS:--The commanding general takes pleasure in announcing to his
troops that victory and success are now within their grasp; and the
commanding general feels proud and gratified that in every attack and
assault the enemy have been repulsed; and the commanding general will
further say to his noble and gallant troops, 'Be of good cheer--all is
well.'
                                   "GENERAL JOHN B. HOOD,
                                        "General Commanding.

"KINLOCK FALCONER,
    "Acting Adjutant-General."

I remember how this order was received.  Every soldier said, "O, shucks; that is all shenanigan,"
for we knew that we had never met the enemy or fired a gun outside of a little skirmishing.
And I will further state that that battle order, announcing success and victory, was the cause
of a greater demoralization than if our troops had been actually engaged in battle.  They at
once mistrusted General Hood's judgment as a commander. And every private soldier in the whole
army knew the situation of affairs.  I remember when passing by Hood, how feeble and decrepit
he looked, with an arm in a sling, and a crutch in the other hand, and trying to guide and
control his horse.  And, reader, I was not a Christian then, and am but little better today;
but, as God sees my heart tonight, I prayed in my heart that day for General Hood.  Poor fellow,
I loved him, not as a General, but as a good man. He died not in vain, as some might think, because
his simplicity, uprightness, loyalty, bravery, self-control, and self-sacrifice, all combined
in his last act, surely inspire the rising generation with the spirit of the Samurai to give
birth to hundreds of Nogis.

Now let us see in the following chapters what Zen so closely connected
with Bushido teaches us.

CHAPTER III

THE UNIVERSE IS THE SCRIPTURE[FN#107] OF ZEN

1. Scripture is no More than Waste Paper.

[FN#107] Zen is not based on any particular sutra, either of Mahayana or of Hinayana. There are
twofold Tripitakas (or the three collections of the Buddhist scriptures)-namely,
the Mahayana-tripitaka and the Hinayana-tripitaka.

The former are the basis of the Mahayana, or the higher and reformed
Buddhism, full of profound metaphysical reasonings; while the latter
form that of the Hinayana, or the lower and early Buddhism, which
is simple and ethical teaching.

These twofold Tripitakas are as follows:

THE MAHAYANA-TRIPITAKA.

The Sutra Pitaka.-The Saddharma-pundarika-sutra, Samdhi-nirmocana-sutra,
Avatamsaka-sutra, Prajnyaparamita-sutra, Amitayus-sutra, Mahaparinirvana-sutra,
etc.

The Vinaya Pitaka.--Brahmajala-sutra, Bodhisattva-caryanirdeca,
etc.

The Abhidharma Pitaka.--Mahaprajnyaparamita-sutra, Mahayana-craddhotpada-castra,
Madhyamaka-castra, Yogacarya bhumi-castra, etc.

THE HINAYANA-TRIPITAKA.

The Sutra Pitaka.--Dirghagama, Ekottaragama, Madhyamagama, Samyuktagama, etc.

The Vinaya Pitaka.--Dharmagupta-vinaya, Mahasamghika-vinaya, Sarvastivada-vinaya,
etc.

The Abhidharma Pitaka.--Dharma-skandha-pada, Samgiti-paryaya-pada,
Jnyanaprasthana-castra, Abhidharma-kosa-castra, etc.

The term 'Tripitaka,'
however, was not known at the time of Shakya Muni, and almost all
of the northern Buddhist records agree in stating that the Tripitaka
was rehearsed and settled in the same year in which the Muni died.

Mahavansa also says: "The book called Abhidharma-pitaka was compiled, which was preached to god, and was arranged
in due order by 500 Budhu priests."

But we believe that Shakya Muni's teaching was known to the early Buddhists, not as Tripitaka,
but as Vinaya and Dharma, and even at the time of King Acoka (who ascended the throne about
269 B.C.) it was not called Tripitaka, but Dharma, as we have it in his Edicts. Mahayanists unanimously
assert the compilation of the Tripitaka in the first council of Rajagrha, but they differ in
opinion as to the question who rehearsed the Abhidharma; notwithstanding, they agree as for the
other respects, as you see in the following:

The Sutra Pitaka, compiled by Ananda; the Vinaya Pitaka, compiled by Upali; the Abhidharma
Pitaka, compiled by Ananda--according to Nagarjuna (Mahaprajnyaparamita-castra).

The
above-mentioned discrepancy clearly betrays the uncertainty of their
assertions, and gives us reason to discredit the compilation of Abhidharma
Pitaka at the first council.

Besides, judging from the Dharma-gupta-vinaya and
other records, which states that Purna took no part in the first council, and that
he had different opinions as to the application of the rules of discipline
from that of Kacyapa, there should be some errors in Paramartha's
assertion.

Of these three collections of the Sacred Writings, the first two, or Sutra and Vinaya, of Mahayana,
as well as of Himayana, are believed to be the direct teachings of Shakya Muni himself, because all
the instructions are put in the mouth of the Master or sanctioned by him. The Mahayanists,
however, compare the Hinayana doctrine with a resting-place on the road for a traveller, while the
Mahayana doctrine with his destination. All the denominations of Buddhism, with a single exception
of Zen, are based on the authority of some particular sacred writings.

Zen
is based on the highest spiritual plane attained by Shakya Muni himself.
It can only be realized by one who has attained the same plane. To
describe it in full by means of words is beyond the power even of
Gotama himself.

It is for this reason that the author of Lankavatara-sutra insists that Shakya Muni spoke no
word through his long career of forty-nine years as a religious teacher,
and that of Mahaprajnyaparamita-sutra[FN#108] also express the same
opinion. The Scripture is no more nor less than the finger pointing
to the moon of Buddhahood.

When we
recognize the moon and enjoy its benign beauty, the finger is of no use.
As the finger has no brightness whatever, so the Scripture has no
holiness whatever. The Scripture is religious currency representing
spiritual wealth. It does not matter whether money be gold, or sea-shells,
or cows. It is a mere substitute. What it stands for is of paramount
importance. Away with your stone-knife!
  More than ten thousand had stopped and allowed themselves
to be captured, while many, dreading the horrors of a Northern prison, kept on, and I saw many,
yea, even thousands, broken down from sheer exhaustion, with despair and pity written on their
features.  Wagon trains, cannon, artillery, cavalry, and infantry were all blended in inextricable
confusion.  Broken down and jaded horses and mules refused to pull, and the badly-scared drivers
looked like their eyes would pop out of their heads from fright.  Wagon wheels, interlocking
each other, soon clogged the road, and wagons, horses and provisions were left indiscriminately.
The officers soon became effected with the demoralization of their troops, and rode on in dogged
indifference.  General Frank Cheatham and General Loring tried to form a line at Brentwood,
but the line they formed was like trying to stop the current of Duck river with a fish net.
I believe the army would have rallied, had there been any colors to rally to.  And as the straggling
army moves on down the road, every now and then we can hear the sullen roar of the Federal
artillery booming in the distance. I saw a wagon and team abandoned, and I unhitched one of
the horses and rode on horseback to Franklin, where a surgeon tied up my broken finger, and
bandaged up my bleeding thigh.  My boot was full of blood, and my clothing saturated with it.
I was at General Hood's headquarters. He was much agitated and affected, pulling his hair with
his one hand (he had but one), and crying like his heart would break.  I pitied him, poor fellow.
I asked him for a wounded furlough, and he gave it to me. I never saw him afterward.  I always
loved and honored him, and will ever revere and cherish his memory.  He gave his life in the
service of his country, and I know today he wears a garland of glory beyond the grave, where
Justice says "well done," and Mercy has erased all his errors and faults.

I only write of the under strata of history; in other words, the privates' history--as I saw
things then, and remember them now.

The winter of 1864-5 was the coldest that had been known for many years. The ground was frozen
and rough, and our soldiers were poorly clad, while many, yes, very many, were entirely barefooted.
Our wagon trains had either gone on, we knew not whither, or had been left behind. Everything
and nature, too, seemed to be working against us.  Even the keen, cutting air that whistled
through our tattered clothes and over our poorly covered heads, seemed to lash us in its fury.
The floods of waters that had overflowed their banks, seemed to laugh at our calamity, and
to mock us in our misfortunes.

All along the route were weary and footsore soldiers.  The citizens seemed to shrink and hide
from us as we approached them.  And, to cap the climax, Tennessee river was overflowing its
banks, and several Federal gunboats were anchored just below Mussel Shoals, firing at us while
crossing.

The once proud Army of Tennessee had degenerated to a mob.  We were pinched by hunger and cold.
The rains, and sleet, and snow never ceased falling from the winter sky, while the winds pierced
the old, ragged, grayback Rebel soldier to his very marrow.  The clothing of many were hanging
around them in shreds of rags and tatters, while an old slouched hat covered their frozen ears.
Some were on old, raw-boned horses, without saddles.

Hon. Jefferson Davis perhaps made blunders and mistakes, but I honestly believe that he ever
did what he thought best for the good of his country.  And there never lived on this earth
from the days of Hampden to George Washington, a purer patriot or a nobler man than Jefferson
Davis; and, like Marius, grand even in ruins.

Hood was a good man, a kind man, a philanthropic man, but he is both harmless and defenseless
now.  He was a poor general in the capacity of commander-in-chief.  Had he been mentally qualified,
his physical condition would have disqualified him.  His legs and one of his arms had been
shot off in the defense of his country.  As a soldier, he was brave, good, noble, and gallant,
and fought with the ferociousness of the wounded tiger, and with the everlasting grit of the
bull-dog; but as a general he was a failure in every particular.

Our country is gone, our cause is lost.  "Actum est de Republica."

CHAPTER XVII

THE SURRENDER

THE LAST ACT OF THE DRAMA

On the 10th day of May, 1861, our regiment, the First Tennessee, left Nashville for the camp
of instruction, with twelve hundred and fifty men, officers and line.  Other recruits continually
coming in swelled this number to fourteen hundred.  In addition to this Major Fulcher's battalion
of four companies, with four hundred men (originally), was afterwards attached to the regiment;
and the Twenty-seventh Tennessee Regiment was afterwards consolidated with the First.  And
besides this, there were about two hundred conscripts added to the regiment from time to time.
To recapitulate: The First Tennessee, numbering originally, 1,250; recruited from time to time,
150; Fulcher's battalion, 400; the Twenty-seventh Tennessee, 1,200; number of conscripts (at
the lowest estimate), 200--making the sum total 3,200 men that belonged to our regiment during
the war.  The above I think a low estimate.  Well, on the 26th day of April, 1865, General
Joe E. Johnston surrendered his army at Greensboro, North Carolina.  The day that we surrendered
our regiment it was a pitiful sight to behold.  If I remember correctly, there were just sixty-five
men in all, including officers, that were paroled on that day.  Now, what became of the original
3,200?  A grand army, you may say.  Three thousand two hundred men!  Only sixty-five left!
Now, reader, you may draw your own conclusions.  It lacked just four days of four years from
the day we were sworn in to the day of the surrender, and it was just four years and twenty
four days from the time that we left home for the army to the time that we got back again.
It was indeed a sad sight to look at, the Old First Tennessee Regiment. A mere squad of noble
and brave men, gathered around the tattered flag that they had followed in every battle through
that long war.  It was so bullet-riddled and torn that it was but a few blue and red shreds
that hung drooping while it, too, was stacked with our guns forever.

Thermopylae had one messenger of defeat, but when General Joe E. Johnston surrendered the Army
of the South there were hundreds of regiments, yea, I might safely say thousands, that had
not a representative on the 26th day of April, 1865.

Our cause was lost from the beginning.  Our greatest victories-- Chickamauga and Franklin--were
our greatest defeats.  Our people were divided upon the question of Union and secession.  Our
generals were scrambling for "Who ranked."  The private soldier fought and starved and died
for naught.  Our hospitals were crowded with sick and wounded, but half provided with food
and clothing to sustain life.  Our money was depreciated to naught and our cause lost.  We
left our homes four years previous.  Amid the waving of flags and handkerchiefs and the smiles
of the ladies, while the fife and drum were playing Dixie and the Bonnie Blue Flag, we bid
farewell to home and friends.  The bones of our brave Southern boys lie scattered over our
loved South.  They fought for their "country," and gave their lives freely for that country's
cause: and now they who survive sit, like Marius amid the wreck of Carthage, sublime even in
ruins.  Other pens abler than mine will have to chronicle their glorious deeds of valor and
devotion.  In these sketches I have named but a few persons who fought side by side with me
during that long and unholy war.  In looking back over these pages, I ask, Where now are many
whose names have appeared in these sketches?  They are up yonder, and are no doubt waiting
and watching for those of us who are left behind.  And, my kind reader, the time is coming
when we, too, will be called, while the archangel of death is beating the long roll of eternity,
and with us it will be the last reveille.  God Himself will sound the "assembly" on yonder
beautiful and happy shore, where we will again have a grand "reconfederation."  We shed a tear
over their flower-strewn graves.  We live after them.  We love their memory yet.  But one generation
passes away and another generation follows.  We know our loved and brave soldiers.  We love
them yet.

But when we pass away, the impartial historian will render a true verdict, and a history will
then be written in justification and vindication of those brave and noble boys who gave their
all in fighting the battles of their homes, their country, and their God.

"The United States has no North, no South, no East, no West."  "We are one and undivided."

ADIEU

My kind friends--soldiers, comrades, brothers, all: The curtain is rung down, the footlights
are put out, the audience has all left and gone home, the seats are vacant, and the cold walls
are silent.  The gaudy tinsel that appears before the footlights is exchanged for the dress
of the citizen.  Coming generations and historians will be the critics as to how we have acted
our parts.  The past is buried in oblivion.  The blood-red flag, with its crescent and cross,
that we followed for four long, bloody, and disastrous years, has been folded never again to
be unfurled.  We have no regrets for what we did, but we mourn the loss of so many brave and
gallant men who perished on the field of battle and honor.  I now bid you an affectionate adieu.

But in closing these memoirs, the scenes of my life pass in rapid review before me.  In imagination,
I am young again tonight.  I feel the flush and vigor of my manhood--am just twenty-one years
of age.  I hear the fife and drum playing Dixie and Bonnie Blue Flag.  I see and hear our fire-eating
stump-orators tell of the right of secession and disunion. I see our fair and beautiful women
waving their handkerchiefs and encouraging their sweethearts to go to the war.  I see the marshaling
of the hosts for "glorious war."  I see the fine banners waving and hear the cry everywhere,
"To arms! to arms!"  And I also see our country at peace and prosperous, our fine cities look
grand and gay, our fields rich in abundant harvests, our people happy and contented.  All these
pass in imagination before me.  Then I look and see glorious war in all its splendor.  I hear
the shout and charge, the boom of artillery and the rattle of small arms.  I see gaily-dressed
officers charging backwards and forwards upon their mettled war horses, clothed in the panoply
of war.  I see victory and conquest upon flying banners.  I see our arms triumph in every battle.
And, O, my friends, I see another scene. I see broken homes and broken hearts.  I see war in
all of its desolation.  I see a country ruined and impoverished.  I see a nation disfranchised
and maltreated.  I see a commonwealth forced to pay dishonest and fraudulent bonds that were
issued to crush that people. I see sycophants licking the boots of the country's oppressor.
I see other and many wrongs perpetrated upon a conquered people.  But maybe it is but the ghosts
and phantoms of a dreamy mind, or the wind as it whistles around our lonely cabin-home.  The
past is buried in oblivion. The mantle of charity has long ago fallen upon those who think
differently from us.  We remember no longer wrongs and injustice done us by anyone on earth.
We are willing to forget and forgive those who have wronged and falsified us.  We look up above
and beyond all these petty groveling things and shake hands and forget the past. There it exists from
the beginning of time. This item can not be stolen by a robber. It can not be painted by an artist.
Although it is not wiped and swept, it's still clean. Although there is
only one of this item, it can divide itself into a multitude of shapes.

  Is it true that I
have seen all these things? that they are real incidents in my life's history?  Did I see those
brave and noble countrymen of mine laid low in death and weltering in their blood?  Did I see
our country laid waste and in ruins? Did I see soldiers marching, the earth trembling and jarring
beneath their measured tread?  Did I see the ruins of smouldering cities and deserted homes?
Did I see my comrades buried and see the violet and wild flowers bloom over their graves? 
Did I see the flag of my country, that I had followed so long, furled to be no more unfurled
forever? Surely they are but the vagaries of mine own imagination.  Surely my fancies are running
wild tonight.  But, hush!  I now hear the approach of battle.  That low, rumbling sound in
the west is the roar of cannon in the distance.  That rushing sound is the tread of soldiers.
That quick, lurid glare is the flash that precedes the cannon's roar.  And listen! that loud
report that makes the earth tremble and jar and sway, is but the bursting of a shell, as it
screams through the dark, tempestuous night.  That black, ebon cloud, where the lurid lightning
flickers and flares, that is rolling through the heavens, is the smoke of battle; beneath is
being enacted a carnage of blood and death.  Listen! the soldiers are charging now.  The flashes
and roaring now are blended with the shouts of soldiers and confusion of battle.

But, reader, time has brought his changes since I, a young ardent and impetuous youth, burning
with a lofty patriotism first shouldered my musket to defend the rights of my country.

Lifting the veil of the past, I see many manly forms, bright in youth and hope, standing in
view by my side in Company H, First Tennessee Regiment. Again I look and half those forms are
gone.  Again, and gray locks and wrinkled faces and clouded brows stand before me. 

Nobody perceives the famous Toogood which is completly "Q's" false; none, except a pretty maid who is
ought to marry his nephew (his own possessions matched them) appears to worry very much about
the returned prisoners of war assuming that something evil is going to happen. He reveals himself
to nobody but his wicked brother Mr, ARYTON, that foolish revenue officer,Lomax Mr.MALLESON, has written
offensively flattering life of him at which it rages him.

The tale is told.  The world moves on, the sun shines as brightly as before, the flowers bloom
as beautifully, the birds sing their carols as sweetly, the trees nod and bow their leafy tops
as if slumbering in the breeze, the gentle winds fan our brow and kiss our cheek as they pass
by, the pale moon sheds her silvery sheen, the blue dome of the sky sparkles with the trembling
stars that twinkle and shine and make night beautiful, and the scene melts and gradually disappears
forever.

                                 THE END.

Appendix: Transcription notes:

About "Company Aytch":

  "Company Aytch" was printed as a series of newspaper articles in
  1881-1882.

  First printed in book form, 2000 copies, in 1882.

  Second printing of 2000 copies in 1900.

  Reprinted in 1952 with an introduction and commentary by
  Bell Irvin Wiley.

  10 or more printings by Collier Books starting in 1962, with an
  introduction by Roy P. Basler.