My brethren, these sermons are professedly short; for I have that opinion of my dear congregation,
which leads me to think that were I to preach at great length they would yawn, stamp, make
noises, and perhaps go straightway out of church; and yet with this text I protest I could
go on for hours. What multitudes of men, what multitudes of women, my dears, pass off their
ordinaire for port, their small beer for strong! In literature, in politics, in the army, the
navy, the church, at the bar, in the world, what an immense quantity of cheap liquor is made
to do service for better sorts! Ask Serjeant Roland his opinion of Oliver Q.C. "Ordinaire,
my good fellow, ordinaire, with a port-wine label!" Ask Oliver his opinion of Roland. "Never
was a man so overrated by the world and by himself." Ask Tweedledumski his opinion of Tweedledeestein's
performance. "A quack, my tear sir! an ignoramus, I geef you my vort? He gombose an opera!
He is not fit to make dance a bear!" Proportionately the gleam died out of her heart, and when
Ben, in his white night-gown, knelt down to baring a say the prayer his mother had taught him,
it was "Devil Lot's" dead pounds, crime-marked face
that bent over him.

"God bless Charley!" he said. She heard until. Ordinaire, trying to go down as orthodox port, and very meagre ordinaire
too! To Hopkins's historical works?--to Pumkins's poetry? Ordinaire, ordinaire again--thin,
feeble, overrated; and so down the whole list. And when we have done discussing our men friends,
have we not all the women? Do these not advance absurd pretensions? Do these never give themselves
airs? With feeble brains, don't they often set up to be esprits forts? Don't they pretend to
be women of fashion, and cut their betters? Don't they try and pass off their ordinary-looking
girls as beauties of the first order? Every man in his circle knows women who give themselves
airs, and to whom we can apply the port-wine simile.

Come, my friends. Here is enough of ordinaire and port for to-day. My bottle has run out. Will
anybody have any more? Let us go up stairs, and get a cup of tea from the ladies.

OGRES.

I dare say the reader has remarked that the upright and independent vowel, which stands in
the vowel-list between E and O, has formed the subject of the main part of these essays. How
does that vowel feel this morning?--fresh, good-humored, and lively? The Roundabout lines,
which fall from this pen, are correspondingly brisk and cheerful. Has anything, on the contrary,
disagreed with the vowel? Has its rest been disturbed, or was yesterday's dinner too good,
or yesterday's wine not good enough? Under such circumstances, a darkling, misanthropic tinge,
no doubt, is cast upon the paper. The jokes, if attempted, are elaborate and dreary. The bitter
temper breaks out. That sneering manner is adopted, which you know, and which exhibits itself
so especially when the writer is speaking about women. A moody carelessness comes over him.
He sees no good in anybody or thing: and treats gentlemen, ladies, history, and things in general,
with a like gloomy flippancy. Agreed. When the vowel in question is in that mood, if you like
airy gayety and tender gushing benevolence--if you want to be satisfied with yourself and the
rest of your fellow-beings; I recommend you, my dear creature, to go to some other shop in
Cornhill, or turn to some other article. There are moods in the mind of the vowel of which
we are speaking, when it is ill-conditioned and captious. Who always keeps good health, and
good humor? Do not philosophers grumble? Are not sages sometimes out of temper? and do not
angel-women go off in tantrums? To-day my mood is dark. I scowl as I dip my pen in the inkstand.

Here is the day come round--for everything here is done with the utmost regularity:--intellectual
labor, sixteen hours; meals, thirty-two minutes; exercise, a hundred and forty-eight minutes;
conversation with the family, chiefly literary, and about the housekeeping, one hour and four
minutes; sleep, three hours and fifteen minutes (at the end of the month, when the Magazine
is complete, I own I take eight minutes more); and the rest for the toilette and the world.
Well, I say, the Roundabout Paper Day being come, and the subject long since settled in my
mind, an excellent subject--a most telling, lively, and popular subject--I go to breakfast
determined to finish that meal in 9 3/4 minutes, as usual, and then retire to my desk and work,
when--oh, provoking!--here in the paper is the very subject treated, on which I was going to
write! Yesterday another paper which I saw treated it--and of course, as I need not tell you,
spoiled it. Last Saturday, another paper had an article on the subject; perhaps you may guess
what it was--but I won't tell you. Only this is true, my favorite subject, which was about
to make the best paper we have had for a long time: my bird, my game that I was going to shoot
and serve up with such a delicate sauce, has been found by other sportsmen; and pop, pop, pop,
a half-dozen of guns have banged at it, mangled it, and brought it down.

"And can't you take some other text?" say you. All this is mighty well. But if you have set
your heart on a certain dish for dinner, be it cold boiled veal, or what you will, and they
bring you turtle and venison, don't you feel disappointed? During your walk you have been making
up your mind that that cold meat, with moderation and a pickle, will be a very sufficient dinner:
you have accustomed your thoughts to it; and here, in place of it, is a turkey, surrounded
by coarse sausages, or a reeking pigeon-pie or a fulsome roast-pig. I have known many a good
and kind man made furiously angry by such a contretemps. I have known him lose his temper,
call his wife and servants names, and a whole household made miserable. If, then, as is notoriously
the case, it is too dangerous to balk a man about his dinner, how much more about his article?
I came to my meal with an ogre-like appetite and gusto. Fee, faw, fum! Wife, where is that
tender little Princekin? Have you trussed him, and did you stuff him nicely, and have you taken
care to baste him and do him, not too brown, as I told you? Quick! I am hungry! I begin to
whet my knife, to roll my eyes about, and roar and clap my huge chest like a gorilla; and then
my poor Ogrina has to tell me that the little princes have all run away, whilst she was in
the kitchen, making the paste to bake them in! I pause in the description. I won't condescend
to report the bad language, which you know must ensue, when an ogre, whose mind is ill regulated,
and whose habits of self-indulgence are notorious, finds himself disappointed of his greedy
hopes. What treatment of his wife, what abuse and brutal behavior to his children, who, though
ogrillons, are children! My dears, you may fancy, and need not ask my delicate pen to describe,
the language and behavior of a vulgar, coarse, greedy, large man with an immense mouth and
teeth, which are too frequently employed in the gobbling and crunching of raw man's meat.

And in this circuitous way you see I have reached my present subject, which is, Ogres. You
fancy they are dead or only fictitious characters--mythical representatives of strength, cruelty,
stupidity, and lust for blood? Though they had seven-leagued boots, you remember all sorts
of little whipping-snapping Tom Thumbs used to elude and outrun them. They were so stupid that
they gave into the most shallow ambuscades and artifices: witness that well-known ogre, who,
because Jack cut open the hasty-pudding, instantly ripped open his own stupid waistcoat and
interior. They were cruel, brutal, disgusting, with their sharpened teeth, immense knives,
and roaring voices! but they always ended by being overcome by little Tom Thumbkins, or some
other smart little champion.

Yes; they were conquered in the end there is no doubt. They plunged headlong (and uttering
the most frightful bad language) into some pit where Jack came with his smart couteau de chasse
and whipped their brutal heads off. They would be going to devour maidens,

         "But ever when it seemed
            Their need was at the sorest,
          A knight, in armor bright,
            Came riding through the forest."

And down, after a combat, would go the brutal persecutor, with a lance through his midriff.
Yes, I say, this is very true and well. But you remember that round the ogre's cave the ground
was covered, for hundreds and hundreds of yards, WITH THE BONES OF THE VICTIMS whom he had
lured into the castle. Many knights and maids came to him and perished under his knife and
teeth. Were dragons the same as ogres? monsters dwelling in caverns, whence they rushed, attired
in plate armor, wielding pikes and torches, and destroying stray passengers who passed by their
lair? And when she left him. One moment she stood uncertain, being alone, looking down into the
seething black water with ice. "I wouldn't. Benny
would have known then, I said,--'I will not.

I must take care o'him first.'Good bye. You'd
best not be seen here." They had sent many brave souls to Hades, before their own fled,
howling out of their rascal carcasses, to the same place of gloom.

There is no greater mistake than to suppose that fairies, champions, distressed damsels, and
by consequence ogres, have ceased to exist. It may not be OGREABLE to them (pardon the horrible
pleasantry, but as I am writing in the solitude of my chamber, I am grinding my teeth--yelling,
roaring, and cursing--brandishing my scissors and paper-cutter, and as it were, have become
an ogre). I say there is no greater mistake than to suppose that ogres have ceased to exist.
We all KNOW ogres. Their caverns are round us, and about us. There are the castles of several
ogres within a mile of the spot where I write. I think some of them suspect I am an ogre myself.
I am not: but I know they are. I visit them. I don't mean to say that they take a cold roast
prince out of the cupboard, and have a cannibal feast before ME. But I see the bones lying
about the roads to their houses, and in the areas and gardens. Politeness, of course, prevents
me from making any remarks; but I know them well enough. One of the ways to know 'em is to
watch the scared looks of the ogres' wives and children. They lead an awful life. They are
present at dreadful cruelties. In their excesses those ogres will stab about, and kill not
only strangers who happen to call in and ask a night's lodging, but they will outrage, murder,
and chop up their own kin. We all know ogres, I say, and have been in their dens often. It
is not necessary that ogres who ask you to dine should offer their guests the PECULIAR DISH
which they like. They cannot always get a Tom Thumb family. They eat mutton and beef too; and
I dare say even go out to tea, and invite you to drink it. But I tell you there are numbers
of them going about in the world. And now you have my word for it, and this little hint, it
is quite curious what an interest society may be made to have for you, by your determining
to find out the ogres you meet there.

What does the man mean? says Mrs. Downright, to whom a joke is a very grave thing. I mean,
madam, that in the company assembled in your genteel drawing-room, who bow here and there and
smirk in white neck-cloths, you receive men who elbow through life successfully enough, but
who are ogres in private: men wicked, false, rapacious, flattering; cruel hectors at home,
smiling courtiers abroad; causing wives, children, servants, parents, to tremble before them,
and smiling and bowing as they bid strangers welcome into their castles. I say, there are men
who have crunched the bones of victim after victim; in whose closets lie skeletons picked frightfully
clean. When these ogres come out into the world, you don't suppose they show their knives,
and their great teeth? A neat simple white neck-cloth, a merry rather obsequious manner, a
cadaverous look, perhaps, now and again, and a rather dreadful grin; but I know ogres very
considerably respected: and when you hint to such and such a man, "My dear sir, Mr. Sharpus,
whom you appear to like, is, I assure you, a most dreadful cannibal;" the gentleman cries,
"Oh, psha, nonsense! Dare say not so black as he is painted. Dare say not worse than his neighbors."
We condone everything in this country--private treason, falsehood, flattery, cruelty at home,
roguery, and double dealing. What! Do you mean to say in your acquaintance you don't know ogres
guilty of countless crimes of fraud and force, and that knowing them you don't shake hands
with them; dine with them at your table; and meet them at their own? Depend upon it, in the
time when there were real live ogres in real caverns or castles, gobbling up real knights and
virgins, when they went into the world--the neighboring market-town, let us say, or earl's
castle--though their nature and reputation were pretty well known, their notorious foibles
were never alluded to. You would say, "What, Blunderbore, my boy! How do you do? How well and
fresh you look! What's the receipt you have for keeping so young and rosy?" And your wife would
softly ask after Mrs. Blunderbore and the dear children. Or it would be, "My dear Humguffin!
try that pork. It is home-bred, homefed, and, I promise you, tender. Tell me if you think it
is as good as yours? John, a glass of Burgundy to Colonel Humguffin!" You don't suppose there
would be any unpleasant allusions to disagreeable home-reports regarding Humguffin's manner
of furnishing his larder? I say we all of us know ogres. We shake hands and dine with ogres.
And if inconvenient moralists tell us we are cowards for our pains, we turn round with a tu
quoque, or say that we don't meddle with other folk's affairs; that people are much less black
than they are painted, and so on. What! Won't half the county go to Ogreham Castle? Won't some
of the clergy say grace at dinner? Won't the mothers bring their daughters to dance with the
young Rawheads? And if Lady Ogreham happens to die--I won't say to go the way of all flesh,
that is too revolting--I say if Ogreham is a widower, do you aver, on your conscience and honor,
that mothers will not be found to offer their young girls to supply the lamented lady's place?
How stale this misanthropy is! Something must have disagreed with this cynic. Yes, my good
woman. I dare say you would like to call another subject. Yes, my fine fellow; ogre at home,
supple as a dancing-master abroad, and shaking in thy pumps, and wearing a horrible grin of
sham gayety to conceal thy terror, lest I should point thee out:--thou art prosperous and honored,
art thou? I say thou hast been a tyrant and a robber. Thou hast plundered the poor. Thou hast
bullied the weak. Thou hast laid violent hands on the goods of the innocent and confiding.
Thou hast made a prey of the meek and gentle who asked for thy protection. Thou hast been hard
to thy kinsfolk, and cruel to thy family. Go, monster! Ah, when shall little Jack come and
drill daylight through thy wicked cannibal carcass? I see the ogre pass on, bowing right and
left to the company; and he gives a dreadful sidelong glance of suspicion as he is talking
to my lord bishop in the corner there.

Ogres in our days need not be giants at all. In former times, and in children's books, where
it is necessary to paint your moral in such large letters that there can be no mistake about
it, ogres are made with that enormous mouth and ratelier which you know of, and with which
they can swallow down a baby, almost without using that great knife which they always carry.
They are too cunning now-a-days. They go about in society, slim, small, quietly dressed, and
showing no especially great appetite. In my own young days there used to be play ogres--men
who would devour a young fellow in one sitting, and leave him without a bit of flesh on his
bones. They were quiet gentlemanlike-looking people. They got the young fellow into their cave.
Champagne, pate-de-foie-gras, and numberless good things, were handed about; and then, having
eaten, the young man was devoured in his turn. I believe these card and dice ogres have died
away almost as entirely as the hasty-pudding giants whom Tom Thumb overcame. Now, there are
ogres in City courts who lure you into their dens. About our Cornish mines I am told there
are many most plausible ogres, who tempt you into their caverns and pick your bones there.
In a certain newspaper there used to be lately a whole column of advertisements from ogres
who would put on the most plausible, nay, piteous appearance, in order to inveigle their victims. It
was a pen upon the dapper flunkeys who were keeping the door of the charge at the point with the
german future; the brawny breast, breathing deep about the struggle, and pouring out great volumes
of feeling, burst through the restraints of the time. He can give security for half a million, and forty thousand pounds will
be given for the use of the loan," and so on; or, "An influential body of capitalists are about
to establish a company, of which the business will be enormous and the profits proportionately
prodigious. They will require A SECRETARY, of good address and appearance, at a salary of two
thousand per annum. He need not be able to write, but address and manners are absolutely necessary.
As a mark of confidence in the company, he will have to deposit," &c.; or, "A young widow (of
pleasing manners and appearance) who has a pressing necessity for four pounds ten for three
weeks, offers her Erard's grand piano, valued at three hundred guineas; a diamond cross of
eight hundred pounds; and board and lodging in her elegant villa near Banbury Cross, with the
best references and society, in return for the loan." I suspect these people are ogres. There
are ogres and ogres. Polyphemus was a great, tall, one-eyed, notorious ogre, fetching his victims
out of a hole, and gobbling them one after another. There could be no mistake about him. But
so were the Sirens ogres--pretty blue-eyed things, peeping at you coaxingly from out of the
water, and singing their melodious wheedles. And the bones round their caves were more numerous
than the ribs, skulls, and thigh-bones round the cavern of hulking Polypheme.

To the castle-gates of some of these monsters up rides the dapper champion of the pen; puffs
boldly upon the horn which hangs by the chain; enters the hall resolutely, and challenges the
big tyrant sulking within. We defy him to combat, the enormous roaring ruffian! We give him
a meeting on the green plain before his castle. Green? No wonder it should be green: it is
manured with human bones. "we might have been good children together, if only---- I don't know whose
fault it is," throwing her powerless arms out desperately. "i wish-- oh, i do wish somebody
had been kind to me!" then the arms fell thin, and Charley never
travel again.

 A touch of the spur in the gallant
sides of Pegasus, and we gallop at the great brute.

"Cut off his ugly head, Flibbertygibbet, my squire!" And who are these who pour out of the
castle? the imprisoned maidens, the maltreated widows, the poor old hoary grandfathers, who
have been locked up in the dungeons these scores and scores of years, writhing under the tyranny
of that ruffian! Ah ye knights of the pen! May honor be your shield, and truth tip your lances!
Be gentle to all gentle people. Be modest to women. Be tender to children. And as for the Ogre
Humbug, out sword, and have at him.

ON TWO ROUNDABOUT PAPERS WHICH I INTENDED TO WRITE.*

     * The following paper was written in 1861, after the
     extraordinary affray between Major Murray and the money-
     lender in a house in Northumberland Street, Strand, and
     subsequent to the appearance of M. Du Chaillu's book on
     Gorillas.

We have all heard of a place paved with good intentions--a place which I take to be a very
dismal, useless, and unsatisfactory terminus for many pleasant thoughts, kindly fancies, gentle
wishes, merry little quips and pranks, harmless jokes which die as it were the moment of their
birth. Poor little children of the brain! He was a dreary theologian who huddled you under
such a melancholy cenotaph, and laid you in the vaults under the flagstones of Hades! I trust
that some of the best actions we have all of us committed in our lives have been committed
in fancy. It is not all wickedness we are thinking, que diable! Some of our thoughts are bad
enough I grant you. Many a one you and I have had here below. Ah mercy, what a monster! what
crooked horns! what leering eyes! what a flaming mouth! what cloven feet, and what a hideous
writhing tail! Oh, let us fall down on our knees, repeat our most potent exorcisms, and overcome
the brute. Spread your black pinions, fly--fly to the dusky realms of Eblis, and bury thyself
under the paving-stones of his hall, dark genie! But ALL thoughts are not so. No--no. There
are the pure: there are the kind: there are the gentle. There are sweet unspoken thanks before
a fair scene of nature: at a sun-setting below a glorious sea: or a moon and a host of stars
shining over it: at a bunch of children playing in the street, or a group of flowers by the
hedge-side, or a bird singing there. At a hundred moments or occurrences of the day good thoughts
pass through the mind, let us trust, which never are spoken; prayers are made which never are
said; and Te Deum is sung without church, clerk, choristers, parson, or organ. Why, there's
my enemy: who got the place I wanted; who maligned me to the woman I wanted to be well with;
who supplanted me in the good graces of my patron. I don't say anything about the matter: but,
my poor old enemy, in my secret mind I have movements of as tender charity towards you, you
old scoundrel, as ever I had when we were boys together at school. You ruffian! do you fancy
I forget that we were fond of each other? We are still. We share our toffy; go halves at the
tuck-shop; do each other's exercises; prompt each other with the word in construing or repetition;
and tell the most frightful fibs to prevent each other from being found out. We meet each other
in public. Ware a fight! Get them into different parts of the room! Our friends hustle round
us. Capulet and Montague are not more at odds than the houses of Roundabout and Wrightabout,
let us say. It is, "My dear Mrs. Buffer, do kindly put yourself in the chair between those
two men!" Or, "My dear Wrightabout, will you take that charming Lady Blancmange down to supper?
She adores your poems, and gave five shillings for your autograph at the fancy fair." In like
manner the peacemakers gather round Roundabout on his part; he is carried to a distant corner,
and coaxed out of the way of the enemy with whom he is at feud.

When we meet in the Square at Verona, out flash rapiers, and we fall to. But in his private
mind Tybalt owns that Mercutio has a rare wit, and Mercutio is sure that his adversary is a
gallant gentleman. Look at the amphitheatre yonder. You do not suppose those gladiators who
fought and perished, as hundreds of spectators in that grim Circus held thumbs down, and cried,
"Kill, kill!"--you do not suppose the combatants of necessity hated each other? No more than
the celebrated trained bands of literary sword-and-buckler men hate the adversaries whom they
meet in the arena. They engage at the given signal; feint and parry; slash, poke, rip each
other open, dismember limbs, and hew off noses: but in the way of business, and, I trust, with
mutual private esteem. For instance, I salute the warriors of the Superfine Company with the
honors due among warriors. Here's at you, Spartacus, my lad. A hit, I acknowledge. A palpable
hit! Ha! how do you like that poke in the eye in return? When the trumpets sing truce, or the
spectators are tired, we bow to the noble company: withdraw; and get a cool glass of wine in
our rendezvous des braves gladiateurs.

By the way, I saw that amphitheatre of Verona under the strange light of a lurid eclipse some
years ago: and I have been there in spirit for these twenty lines past, under a vast gusty
awning, now with twenty thousand fellow-citizens looking on from the benches, now in the circus
itself, a grim gladiator with sword and net, or a meek martyr--was I?--brought out to be gobbled
up by the lions? or a huge, shaggy, tawny lion myself, on whom the dogs were going to be set?
What a day of excitement I have had to be sure! But I must get away from Verona, or who knows
how much farther the Roundabout Pegasus may carry me?

We were saying, my Muse, before we dropped and perched on earth for a couple of sentences,
that our unsaid words were in some limbo or other, as real as those we have uttered; that the
thoughts which have passed through our brains are as actual as any to which our tongues and
pens have given currency. It'mho on her white wedding-digit. The scar's there, again.-- St! where's
your music? you've not played a note these five minutes. Whisht!
here comes my mother!

"how was Helmar to darken my mother's day, i couldn't but think, as
i began to toss off the tune.
I say what fine things we have thought of, haven't we, all of us? Ah, what a fine tragedy that
was I thought of, and never wrote! On the day of the dinner of the Oystermongers' Company,
what a noble speech I thought of in the cab, and broke down--I don't mean the cab, but the
speech. Ah, if you could but read some of the unwritten Roundabout Papers, how you would be
amused! Aha! my friend, I catch you saying, "Well, then, I wish THIS was unwritten with all
my heart." Very good. I owe you one. I do confess a hit, a palpable hit.

One day in the past month, as I was reclining on the bench of thought, with that ocean The
Times newspaper spread before me, the ocean cast up on the shore at my feet two famous subjects
for Roundabout Papers, and I picked up those waifs, and treasured them away until I could polish
them and bring them to market. That scheme is not to be carried out. I can't write about those
subjects. And though I cannot write about them, I may surely tell what are the subjects I am
going NOT to write about.

The first was that Northumberland Street encounter, which all the papers have narrated. Have
any novelists of our days a scene and catastrophe more strange and terrible than this which
occurs at noonday within a few yards of the greatest thoroughfare in Europe? At the theatres
they have a new name for their melodramatic pieces, and call them "Sensation Dramas." What
a sensation Drama this is! What have people been flocking to see at the Adelphi Theatre for
the last hundred and fifty nights? A woman pitched overboard out of a boat, and a certain Miles
taking a tremendous "header," and bringing her to shore? Bagatelle! What is this compared to
the real life-drama, of which a midday representation takes place just opposite the Adelphi
in Northumberland Street? The brave Dumas, the intrepid Ainsworth, the terrible Eugene Sue,
the cold-shudder-inspiring "Woman in White," the astounding author of the "Mysteries of the
Court of London," never invented anything more tremendous than this. It might have happened
to you and me. We want to borrow a little money. We are directed to an agent. We propose a
pecuniary transaction at a short date. He goes into the next room, as we fancy, to get the
bank-notes, and returns with "two very pretty, delicate little ivory-handled pistols," and
blows a portion of our heads off. After this, what is the use of being squeamish about the
probabilities and possibilities in the writing of fiction? Years ago I remember making merry
over a play of Dumas, called Kean, in which the "Coal-Hole Tavern" was represented on the Thames,
with a fleet of pirate-ships moored alongside. Pirate-ships? Why not? What a cavern of terror
was this in Northumberland Street, with its splendid furniture covered with dust, its empty
bottles, in the midst of which sits a grim "agent," amusing himself by firing pistols, aiming
at the unconscious mantel-piece, or at the heads of his customers!

After this, what is not possible? It is possible Hungerford Market is mined, and will explode
some day. Mind how you go in for a penny ice unawares. "Pray, step this way," says a quiet
person at the door. You enter--into a back room:--a quiet room; rather a dark room. "Pray,
take your place in a chair." And she goes to fetch the penny ice. Malheureux! The chair sinks
down with you--sinks, and sinks, and sinks--a large wet flannel suddenly envelopes your face
and throttles you. Need we say any more? After Northumberland Street, what is improbable? Surely
there is no difficulty in crediting Bluebeard. I withdraw my last month's opinions about ogres.
Ogres? Why not? I protest I have seldom contemplated anything more terribly ludicrous than
this "agent" in the dingy splendor of his den, surrounded by dusty ormolu and piles of empty
bottles, firing pistols for his diversion at the mantel-piece until his clients come in! Is
pistol-practice so common in Northumberland Street, that it passes without notice in the lodging-houses
there?

We spake anon of good thoughts. About bad thoughts? Is there some Northumberland Street chamber
in your heart and mine, friend: close to the every-day street of life visited by daily friends:
visited by people on business; in which affairs are transacted; jokes are uttered; wine is
drunk; through which people come and go; wives and children pass; and in which murder sits
unseen until the terrible moment when he rises up and kills? A farmer, say, has a gun over
the mantel-piece in his room where he sits at his daily meals and rest: caressing his children,
joking with his friends, smoking his pipe in his calm. One night the gun is taken down: the
farmer goes out: and it is a murderer who comes back and puts the piece up and drinks by that
fireside. Was he a murderer yesterday when he was tossing the baby on his knee, and when his
hands were playing with his little girl's yellow hair? Yesterday there was no blood on them
at all: they were shaken by honest men: have done many a kind act in their time very likely.
He leans his head on one of them, the wife comes in with her anxious looks of welcome, the
children are prattling as they did yesterday round the father's knee at the fire, and Cain
is sitting by the embers, and Abel lies dead on the moor. Think of the gulf between now and
yesterday. Oh, yesterday! Oh, the days when those two loved each other and said their prayers
side by side! He goes to sleep, perhaps, and dreams that his brother is alive. Be true, O dream!
Let him live in dreams, and wake no more. Be undone, O crime, O crime! But the sun rises: and
the officers of conscience come: and yonder lies the body on the moor. I happened to pass,
and looked at the Northumberland Street house the other day. A few loiterers were gazing up
at the dingy windows. A plain ordinary face of a house enough--and in a chamber in it one man
suddenly rose up, pistol in hand, to slaughter another. Have you ever killed any one in your
thoughts? Has your heart compassed any man's death? In your mind, have you ever taken a brand
from the altar, and slain your brother? How many plain ordinary faces of men do we look at,
unknowing of murder behind those eyes? Lucky for you and me, brother, that we have good thoughts
unspoken. But the bad ones? I tell you that the sight of those blank windows in Northumberland
Street--through which, as it were, my mind could picture the awful tragedy glimmering behind--set
me thinking, "Mr. Street-Preacher, here is a text for one of your pavement sermons. But it
is too glum and serious. You eschew dark thoughts: and desire to be cheerful and merry in the
main." And, such being the case, you see we must have no Roundabout Essay on this subject.

Well, I had another arrow in my quiver. (So, you know, had William Tell a bolt for his son,
the apple of his eye; and a shaft for Gessler, in case William came to any trouble with the
first poor little target.) And this, I must tell you, was to have been a rare Roundabout performance--one
of the very best that has ever appeared in this series. It was to have contained all the deep
pathos of Addison; the logical precision of Rabelais; the childlike playfulness of Swift; the
manly stoicism of Sterne; the metaphysical depth of Goldsmith; the blushing modesty of Fielding;
the epigrammatic terseness of Walter Scott; the uproarious humor of Sam Richardson; and the
gay simplicity of Sam Johnson;--it was to have combined all these qualities, with some excellences
of modern writers whom I could name:--but circumstances have occurred which have rendered this
Roundabout Essay also impossible.

I have not the least objection to tell you what was to have been the subject of that other
admirable Roundabout Paper. Gracious powers! the Dean of St. Patrick's never had a better theme.
The paper was to have been on the Gorillas, to be sure. I was going to imagine myself to be
a young surgeon-apprentice from Charleston, in South Carolina, who ran away to Cuba on account
of unhappy family circumstances, with which nobody has the least concern; who sailed thence
to Africa in a large, roomy schooner with an extraordinary vacant space between decks. I hastened
to exculpate myself from dwelling any intention of unkind insinuation,
and my watch ticked steadily on.

"if
your mill turns only at a stream that flows to you through your neighbor's
grounds, your neighbor has their flour by their mercy. I was chased--we were chased--by three British
frigates and a seventy-four, which we engaged and captured; but were obliged to scuttle and
sink, as we could sell them in no African port: and I never shall forget the look of manly
resignation, combined with considerable disgust, of the British Admiral as he walked the plank,
after cutting off his pigtail, which he handed to me, and which I still have in charge for
his family at Boston, Lincolnshire, England.

We made the port of Bpoopoo, at the confluence of the Bungo and Sgglolo rivers (which you may
see in Swammerdahl's map) on the 31st April last year. Our passage had been so extraordinarily
rapid, owing to the continued drunkenness of the captain and chief officers, by which I was
obliged to work the ship and take her in command, that we reached Bpoopoo six weeks before
we were expected, and five before the coffres from the interior and from the great slave depot
at Zbabblo were expected. Their delay caused us not a little discomfort, because, though we
had taken the four English ships, we knew that Sir Byam Martin's iron-cased squadron, with
the "Warrior," the "Impregnable," the "Sanconiathon," and the "Berosus," were cruising in the
neighborhood, and might prove too much for us.

