We seem in these words to have come far from the mystic, and that contemplative consciousness
wherewith he ascends to the contact of Truth. As a matter of fact, we are merely considering
that consciousness in its most natural and accessible form: for contemplation is, on the one
hand, the essential activity of all artists; on the other, the art through which those who
choose to learn and practise it may share in some fragmentary degree, according to their measure,
the special experience of the mystic and the poet. By it they may achieve that virginal outlook
upon things, that celestial power of communion with veritable life, which comes when that which
we call "sensation" is freed from the tyranny of that which we call "thought." The artist is
no more and no less than a contemplative who has learned to express himself, and who tells
his love in colour, speech, or sound: the mystic, upon one side of his nature, is an artist
of a special and exalted kind, who tries to express something of the revelation he has received,
mediates between Reality and the race. The other fellows had all gone off to the dance in the neighboring
village. Every one was strolling about in Sunday attire, the houses were gay, and there was
melody in the very air. But I walked off and sat solitary, like a bittern among the reeds, by
a lonely pond in the garden, rocking myself in a little skiff tied there, while the vesper
bells sounded faintly from the town and the swans glided to and fro on the placid water. A sadness
as of death possessed me.

On a sudden I heard, in the distance, voices talking gaily, and bursts
of merry laughter.

They sounded nearer and nearer, and red and white kerchiefs and hats and feathers were visible
through the shrubbery. A party of gentlemen and ladies were coming from the castle, across the
meadow, directly toward me, and my two ladies among them.

I answer: You are going to do it by an educative process; a drill, of which the first stages
will, indeed, be hard enough. You have already acknowledged the need of such mental drill,
such deliberate selective acts, in respect to the smaller matters of life. You willingly spend
time and money over that narrowing and sharpening of attention which you call a "business training,"
a "legal education," the "acquirement of a scientific method." But this new undertaking will
involve the development and the training of a layer of your consciousness which has lain fallow
in the past; the acquirement of a method you have never used before. It is reasonable, even
reassuring, that hard work and discipline should be needed for this: that it should demand
of you, if not the renunciation of the cloister, at least the virtues of the golf course.

The education of the mystical sense begins in self-simplification. The feeling, willing, seeing
self is to move from the various and the analytic to the simple and the synthetic: a sentence
which may cause hard breathing and mopping of the brows on the part of the practical man. Yet
it is to you, practical man, reading these pages as you rush through the tube to the practical
work of rearranging unimportant fragments of your universe, that this message so needed by
your time--or rather, by your want of time-- is addressed. To you, unconscious analyst, so
busy reading the advertisements upon the carriage wall, that you hardly observe the stages
of your unceasing flight: so anxiously acquisitive of the crumbs that you never lift your eyes
to the loaf. The essence of mystical contemplation is summed in these two experiences-- union
with the flux of life, and union with the Whole in which all lesser realities are resumed--and
these experiences are well within your reach. Though it is likely that the accusation will
annoy you, you are already in fact a potential contemplative: for this act, as St. Thomas Aquinas
taught, is proper to all men--is, indeed, the characteristic human activity.

More, it is probable that you are, or have been, an actual contemplative too. Has it never
happened to you to lose yourself for a moment in a swift and satisfying experience for which
you found no name? When the world took on a strangeness, and you rushed out to meet it, in
a mood at once exultant and ashamed? Was there not an instant when you took the lady who now
orders your dinner into your arms, and she suddenly interpreted to you the whole of the universe?
a universe so great, charged with so terrible an intensity, that you have hardly dared to think
of it since. Do you remember that horrid moment at the concert, when you became wholly unaware
of your comfortable seven-and-sixpenny seat? Those were onsets of involuntary contemplation;
sudden partings of the conceptual veil. Dare you call them the least significant, moments of
your life? Did you not then, like the African saint, "thrill with love and dread," though you
were not provided with a label for that which you adored?

It will not help you to speak of these experiences as "mere emotion." Where do you come from? Can
you read, write, and cipher?" And when I assented, he went on, "Well, her Grace, in consideration
of your good manners and extraordinary merit, appoints you to the vacant post of Receiver of Toll."
I hurriedly passed in mental review the conduct and manners that had hitherto distinguished me,
and was forced to admit that the Bailiff was right. And so, before I knew it, I was Receiver of
Toll. I took possession of my dwelling, and was soon comfortably established there. The deceased
toll-gate keeper had left behind him for his successor various articles, which I appropriated,
among others a magnificent scarlet dressing-gown dotted with yellow, a pair of green slippers,
a tasseled nightcap, and several long-stemmed pipes.

I had often wished for these things at home, where I used to see our village pastor thus comfortably
provided. All day long, therefore--I had nothing else to do--I sat on the bench before my house
in dressing-gown and nightcap, smoking the longest pipe from the late toll-gate keeper's collection,
and looking at the people walking, driving, and riding on the high-road. I only wished that some
of the folks from our village, who had always said that I never would be worth anything, might
happen to pass by and see me thus. The dressing-gown became my complexion, and suited me extremely
well. So I sat there and pondered many things--the difficulty of all beginnings, the great advantages
of an easier mode of existence, for example--and privately resolved to give up travel for
the future, save money like other people, and in time do something really great in the world.
Meanwhile, with all my resolves, anxieties, and occupations, I in
no wise forgot the Lady fair. These are the two great phases in the education
of every contemplative: and they are called in the language of the mystics the purification
of the senses and the purification of the will.

Those who are so fortunate as to experience in one of its many forms the crisis which is called
"conversion" are seized, as it seems to them, by some power stronger than themselves and turned
perforce in the right direction. They find that this irresistible power has cleansed the windows
of their homely coat of grime; and they look out, literally, upon a new heaven and new earth.
The long quiet work of adjustment which others must undertake before any certitude rewards
them is for these concentrated into one violent shattering and rearranging of the self, which
can now begin its true career of correspondence with the Reality it has perceived. To persons
of this type I do not address myself: but rather to the ordinary plodding scholar of life,
who must reach the same goal by a more gradual road.

What is it that smears the windows of the senses? Thought, convention, self-interest. We throw
a mist of thought between ourselves and the external world: and through this we discern, as
in a glass darkly, that which we have arranged to see. We see it in the way in which our neighbours
see it; sometimes through a pink veil, sometimes through a grey. Religion, indigestion, priggishness,
or discontent may drape the panes. The prismatic colours of a fashionable school of art may
stain them. Inevitably, too, we see the narrow world our windows show us, not "in itself,"
but in relation to our own needs, moods, and preferences; which exercise a selective control
upon those few aspects of the whole which penetrate to the field of consciousness and dictate
the order in which we arrange them, for the universe of the natural man is strictly egocentric.
We continue to name the living creatures with all the placid assurance of Adam: and whatsoever
we call them, that is the name thereof. Unless we happen to be artists--and then but rarely--we
never know the "thing seen" in its purity; never, from birth to death, look at it with disinterested
eyes. Our vision and understanding of it are governed by all that we bring with us, and mix
with it, to form an amalgam with which the mind can deal. To "purify" the senses is to release
them, so far as human beings may, from the tyranny of egocentric judgments; to make of them
the organs of direct perception. This means that we must crush our deep-seated passion for
classification and correspondences; ignore the instinctive, selfish question, "What does it
mean to me?" learn to dip ourselves in the universe at our gates, and know it, not from without
by comprehension, but from within by self-mergence.

Richard of St. Victor has said, that the essence of all purification is self-simplification;
the doing away of the unnecessary and unreal, the tangles and complications of consciousness:
and we must remember that when these masters of the spiritual life speak of purity, they have
in their minds no thin, abstract notion of a rule of conduct stripped of all colour and compounded
chiefly of refusals, such as a more modern, more arid asceticism set up. Their purity is an
affirmative state; something strong, clean, and crystalline, capable of a wholeness of adjustment
to the wholeness of a God-inhabited world. The pure soul is like a lens from which all irrelevancies
and excrescences, all the beams and motes of egotism and prejudice, have been removed; so that
it may reflect a clear image of the one Transcendent Fact within which all others facts are held.

    "All which I took from thee I did but take,
        Not for thy harms,
    But just that thou might'st seek it in My arms." 

But I said I did not know anything fine enough to sing to such great people. Then the pert lady's-maid,
who was beside me with a basket of cups and bottles, and whom I had not perceived before, said, "He
knows a very pretty little song about a lady fair."

The "Simple Eye" of Contemplation, about which the mystic writers say so much, is then a synthetic
sense; which sees that white light in which all colour is, without discrete analysis of its
properties. The Simple Ear which discerns the celestial melody, hears that Tone in which all
music is resumed; thus achieving that ecstatic life of "sensation without thought" which Keats
perceived to be the substance of true happiness.

