FANNY GOES TO WAR

BY PAT BEAUCHAMP (FIRST AID NURSING YEOMANRY)

WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY MAJOR-GENERAL H.N. THOMPSON, K.C.M.G, C.B., D.S.O

LONDON JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W. 1919

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

To T.H.

INTRODUCTION

I eagerly avail myself of the Author's invitation to write a foreword to her book, as it gives
me an opportunity of expressing something of the admiration, of the wonder, of the intense
brotherly sympathy and affection--almost adoration--which has from time to time overwhelmed
me when witnessing the work of our women during the Great War. 

The era of the air is undoubtedly at hand; it now remains to take the steps necessary to reap full
advantages from it.

ARTHUR SWEETSER, GORDON LAMONT.

OPPORTUNITIES IN AVIATION I WAR' S CONQUEST OF THE AIR The World
War opened to man the freedom of the skies.

Amid all its anguish and suffering has come forth the conquest of
the air.

Scientists, manufacturers, dreamers, and the most hard- headed of
men have united under the goad of its necessity to sweep away in a
series of supreme efforts all the fears and doubts which had chained
men to earth.

True, years before, in fact, nearly a decade before, the Wright brothers had risen from the ground and
flown about through the air in a machine which defied conventional rules
and beliefs. The world had looked on in wonder, and then dropped back into an
apathetic acceptance of the fact. Despite the actual demonstration
and the field of imagination which was opened up, these early flights
proved to be a world' s wonder only for a moment.

For years aviation dragged on. Daredevils and adventurers took it up to
make money by hair- raising exploits at various meets and exhibits. Many
died, and the general public, after satiating its lust for the sensational,
turned its thought elsewhere.

Flight was regarded as somewhat the plaything of those who cared not for life,
and as a result the serious, sober thought of the community did not enter
into its solution. Business men held aloof. Apart from circus performances
there seemed no money to be made in aviation and consequently practically
none was invested in it.

What little manufacturing was done was by zealots and inventors. Workmanship
was entirely by hand, slow, amateurish, and unreliable.

Strangely enough, scientists were equally apathetic. It might have been expected that their imaginations
would be fired by the unexplored realms of the air and by the incomparably new field of experiment
opened to them; but they were not.

The great question, that of flight itself, had been answered, and but few were interested in working out
the less spectacular applications of its principles.

Aviation remained very much a poor sister in the scientific world, held back by all the discredit
attaching to the early stunt- flying and by failure to break through
the ancient belief in its impracticability for any purposes other
than the sensational.

     
                     So the science limped along, unsupported by either public interest or capital.
Now and again some startling feat attracted the world' s attention,
as when the English Channel was first crossed by air and England
was made to realize that her insularity was gone.

     For a moment this feat held public interest, but again without a
true realization of its significance. There seemed nothing which would drive
man to develop the gift which had been put within his reach.

     Up to that fatal moment in August, 1914, when the World War broke
     out, aviation had made but little progress. All nations had what passed as
     air services, but they were very small and ill- equipped and were regarded
with doubt and suspicion by the military leaders of the various countries.

     

Compared with what has since taken place, the experiments previous
to the war were only the most rudimentary beginnings.

Then came the war. Man' s largely imagination was aroused to a feverish
desire for the evolution of any device for causing destruction.
Conventions, usages, and prejudices were laid aside and every possibility
of inflicting damage on the enemy was examined on its merits.

    

   

  

   Sentiment or any regard for personal danger involved was thrown
to the winds.

Science was mobilized in all lines in the struggle to keep one step
ahead of the enemy.

    

   

Almost immediately aviation challenged the attention of the responsible leaders.
The handful of French planes which in those early fateful days of
August penetrated up into Belgium brought back the information of
the German mobilization there, and this led to the rearrangement of
French forces in preparation for the battle of the Marne.

  As a result aviation at once leaped into high repute for scouting purposes
and the foundations were laid for its great development. But as aviation had
proved itself in the warfare of movement leading down to the Marne
and sweeping back later to the Aisne, so it proved itself in the French
warfare which was so unexpectedly to follow.

 
       

   When the two opposing lines were so close together that they locked almost
in a death grip, each side kept such strict watch that ground observation
was greatly hampered.

    
       

   
Apparently there was only one way to find out what was going on behind
the enemy' s lines.

  
       
That was by looking from above. The first aviator, therefore, who sailed
into the air and spied the enemy introduced one of the most important
developments in the strategy of modern warfare.

 Thereupon began one of those silent battles of the rear, of which we see
and hear so little, but which indeed decides sometimes far in advance
of the actual test of battle just which side is going to win.

  Scientists, inventors, manufacturers, and practical fliers began coming
together in increasing numbers to exact from this latest method
of warfare its last degree of usefulness.

   

  

 In the studies and factories on both sides of the lines men dedicated themselves
to the solution of the problem was the Allies who added the radio
and made of it an efficient method of observation and spotting of
artillery fire.

  Increased- power began to be developed, and bombs were carried in
ever- increasing numbers and size. The moment an enemy plane fell on either
side of the line the victors gathered about their prey with a keenness
which could come only of the hope that they might find in it some
suggestion that would make their own flying more efficient.

Each learned from the other, so that the different schools on either
side of the line had all the advantage of watching the development
of their rivals.

Very shortly after an improvement appeared on one side it reappeared
in the planes of the other side. It is doubtful if ever a more desperate
scientific battle was fought than that which featured the development
of the air services of the various belligerents during the war.

Control of the air was so vital that neither could afford to overlook any possibility; and, as a result,
the scientific evolution was truly astounding. No man was reserved on this subject
of airplane improvement. All contributed their best skill and ability to
the common reservoir of knowledge.

Very soon man' s conquest of the air became so complete that different
types of planes were developed for different kinds of work. The plane of the
early days which wandered off by itself wherever it saw fit, gathered
what information it could, and returned to drop a note to the commander
below, developed into a highly efficient two- seated plane equipped
with machine- guns for protection against attack, wireless for sending
back messages, and cameras for photographing the enemy' s positions
below.

The plane which had earlier dropped an occasional bomb in a hit-
or- miss fashion over the side now developed either into a powerful
two- seater with a great weight- carrying capacity and a continually
more efficient scientific method of aiming its missiles or into a
huge machine for long- distance night- bombing work capable of carrying
from two to a dozen men and from two to four tons of bombs.

During this time the strictly fighting plane, usually a single- seater, increased in speed," ceiling,"
and agility till it could dart, twist, and dive about, three to five miles above the trenches, protecting
friendly bombing and observation planes below from enemy attack or
swooping down to send enemy planes in flames to the ground.

Vital though all this work was for the war, it had an incomparably
greater value for the perpetual struggle which all mankind is waging
against nature.

While the various nations were seeking to destroy one another through the air, they were in reality
destroying the chains which bound them to the ground and winning their freedom in a new element.
The advance which the Allies or the Germans made over each other in scientific aerial development was
a joint advance over the restrictions of gravitation. This, indeed,
apart from the spread of democracy and internationalism, may well
stand out in history as the war' s richest heritage.

Problems which had been considered insoluble were solved. The casting aside of all conventions, all
restrictive habits of thought, all selfishnesses, and the focusing of the highest scientific ability
in a struggle which might mean the life or death of the nation, had
brought as a by- product a development beyond our wildest fancies.

Aerial operations in any future war, however, will have at once a problem which has only recently and in very
much smaller degree confronted the navy, namely, the assurance of attack not only on the front, in
the rear, and on both flanks, but from above and below as well.

Recently the navy has had to face that problem-- submarines operating below and airplanes above;
but the problem of attack upon a ship is not so serious as upon an airplane.
Already, in order to meet this danger of attack from every possible
direction, a most complete strategy and system of formations have
been worked out.

In this the various types of planes operate in different air strata according
to their missions, the upper planes echelon somewhat behind those below
on the order of a flight of steps facing the enemy.

This system provides a quick method of reception of an attack and the assurance of quick support,
no matter where the attack may come.

Obviously there would be nothing in all of warfare on either land or
sea comparable to a collision between two such aerial fleets.

The speed of the lighter planes, quick, life- taking duels in several different strata at once, would provide
a clash of action, speed, and skill far more beautiful and yet in many
ways far more terrible than anything ever recorded in the history of
war. Fleets of the skies-- who shall attempt at this day of the infancy
of the science to limit their scope?

Aerial battle- planes of colossal size and power are as certain to come in time, and in not a
very long time, as the dreadnought of to- day was certain to follow the first armored ship
of only a half- century ago. Never yet has man opened up a new avenue
of war that he has not pursued it relentlessly to its final conclusion.
It is certain that he will not fail to push aerial development with
all the energy with which he has devoted himself to the science of
destruction.

The avenue of the seas has been up to now the world' s greatest civilizer.
Very shortly, without doubt, it will be replaced by the avenue of the
skies. If we are to strive for freedom of the seas, what shall we
say about freedom of this new element? The laws of aerial travel and
aerial warfare open an unlimited field of speculation.

II THE TRANSITION TO PEACE Developments during the war, despite their
startling sensational character, had, however, been so overshadowed
by human suffering and desperation that but few minds were awake
to the changes that were to influence man' s future.

Amid the disasters, battles, and unprecedented movements in the politics
of nations, the achievements of flight could command but a passing
notice.

People looked and wondered, but were distracted from following their thoughts through to the logical
conclusion by the roar of a seventy- mile gun, the collapse of a
nation, or the shock of of flight.

Stage by stage the difficulties were overcome. First it was the Germans
regiments who with their terrible Fokker planes harnessed the machine-
gun to the airplane and made of it a weapon of offense.

Then it battle on a one- hundred- mile front.

Let us, however, weave together a few things that were done in those days
of sensation, which may have a particular effect on the future of the science.
Most conspicuous, perhaps, was the obliteration of distance and of all
the customary limitations of travel.

German airplanes in squadrons penetrated into snug little England
when the German fleet stood locked in its harbor. The Italian poet D' Annunzio
dropped leaflets over Vienna when his armies were held at bay at the
Alps.

French, British, and finally American planes brought the war home to cities of the Rhine which never
even saw the Allied troops till Germany had surrendered.

None of the conventional barriers stood in the way of these long trips. A new
route of travel had been opened up along which men flew at will. The
boundary- lines of states below, which look so formidable on the
map, were passed over with the greatest ease, as well as such natural
obstacles as the Alps and the English Channel.

Tremendous saving in time was constantly being effected. Men were able to dart back and forth from the
front to the rear and from England to France with a speed never dreamed
of by other means of travel.

To be
sure, the front- line demands for planes were too severe to allow a very wide
use in this way, but nevertheless the possibilities were there and
were constantly availed of.[ 1] Indeed, the British early established a communication
squadron for this specific purpose.

In the last three months of the war 279 cross- country passenger flights were made to such places as
Paris, Nancy, Dunkirk, and Manchester, all of them without a single accident! Moreover, a Channel ferry service
was created which in seventy- one days of flying weather made 227
crossings, covered over 8,000 miles, and carried 1,843 passengers.

With trains seldom going above 60 miles an hour, the slowest airplane
went 80 and the average daylight plane on the front probably equaled
110.

The fast fighters went up to 120, 130, and even 140 miles an hour, over twice as fast as any method
of travel previously known. Just as the curtain closed on the war, there had been developed in the United States
a plane credited with 162- 2/ 3 miles an hour, and no one for a
moment believed that the limit had been reached.

Altitude likewise had been obliterated. The customary height for two- seated observation and
bombing planes was between one and two miles, and of single- seated
scouts between two and four miles.

These altitudes were not the freakish heights occasionally obtained
by adventurous fliers; on the contrary they were the customary levels
at which the different kinds of duties were carried out.

Many men, of course, went far higher. Since then an American, Roland Rohlfs, flying a Curtiss" Wasp" set the
unofficial altitude record at 34,610 feet-- higher than the world' s highest mountain. Life at these altitudes
was not possible, of course, under ordinary conditions.

The temperature fell far below zero and the air became so thin that
neither man nor engine could function unaided.

As a result the fliers were kept from freezing by electrically heated
clothing and from unconsciousness from lack of air by artificially
supplied oxygen.

 We got rather tired of this pastime about 12.30 but there was still another
wounded to be brought in. She had chosen the bottom of a heathery slope and took some finding.
It was the C.O. She feigned delirium and threw her arms about in a wild manner. The poor bearers
were feeling too exhausted to appreciate this piece of acting, and heather is extremely slippery
stuff. When we had struggled back with her the soi-disant doctor asked for the diagnosis. "Drunk
and disorderly," replied one of them, stepping smartly forward and saluting! This somewhat
broke up the proceedings, and lèse majesté was excused on the grounds that it was too dark
to recognise it was the C.O. The tent pegs were pulled up and the tent pulled down and we all
thankfully tramped back to camp to sleep the sleep of the just till the reveille sounded to
herald another day.

CHAPTER II

FIRST IMPRESSIONS

The last Chapter was devoted to the F.A.N.Y.'s in camp before the War, but from now onwards
will be chronicled facts that befell them on active service.

When war broke out in August 1914 Lieutenant Ashley Smith lost no time in offering the Corps'
services to the War Office. To our intense disappointment these were refused. However, F.A.N.Y.'s
are not easily daunted. The Belgian Army, at that time, had no organised medical corps in the
field, and informed us they would be extremely grateful if we would take over a Hospital for
them. Lieutenant Smith left for Antwerp in September 1914, and had arranged to take a house
there for a Hospital when the town fell; her flight to Ghent where she stayed to the last with
a dying English officer, until the Germans arrived, and her subsequent escape to Holland have
been told elsewhere. If you will throw a long, pliant apple- paring over Louis is by no means so
crooked, that being a rocky country which the river cannot cut much.
The water cuts the alluvial banks of the' lower' river into deep horseshoe
curves; so deep, indeed, that in some places if you were to get ashore
at one extremity of the horseshoe and walk across the neck, half
or three quarters of a mile, you the in the country, and therefore
of inferior value, has only to his chance, cut a little gutter your
shoulder it will pretty fairly shape itself into an average section
of the Mississippi River; that is, the an hour, to take you aboard
again.

When the river is rising fast, some scoundrel whose estate is back same
being wonderfully crooked, with a brief nine or over ten hundred miles
that stretching from Cairo, Illinois, southward to New Orleans, the
water into it, and in a wonderfully short time a miracle has happened:
to wit, the whole Mississippi has taken possession of that little
ditch, and placed the could sit down and rest a couple of hours while
your steamer was coming around the long elbow, at a speed of ten miles
straight bit here and there at wide intervals.

The two hundred- mile stretch from Cairo northward to St. across the narrow neck of land some dark
night, and turn countryman' s plantation on its bank( quadrupling its value), and that other
party' s formerly valuable plantation finds itself off out yonder
on a big island; the old watercourse around it will soon shoal up, boats
cannot approach within ten miles of it, and down goes its value to
a fourth of its former worth.

Watches are kept on those narrow necks, at told needful times, and a man happens to be caught cutting a
ditch across them, the chances are all against his ever having another
opportunity to cut a ditch.
 There was an advanced dressing station
at Oostkerke where three of the girls worked in turn, and we also took turns to go up to the
trenches on the Yser at night, with fresh clothes for the men and bandages and dressings for
those who had been wounded. 

" Hold back your head, if you please, sir, that restless brush the lather I may get elsewhere this napkin
properly fastened-- there now," said Toby Tims, as, securing the pin, he dipped his razor into hot water,
and began working up with been of his soapbox. But his was the for the covenant is one of the great creative documents human
history. power and the will that carried it through.

Great Creative Document The honor is very the great, indeed, The
peace treaty will fade into merciful oblivion and its provisions will
be gradually obliterated great human tides sweeping over the world.

No one will deny that honor. covenant is Wilson' s souvenir to the future of the
world. But the covenant will stand as sure as fate
