The place, where we settled for the summer, consisted of a wooden manor-house with columns
and two small lodges; in the lodge on the left there was a tiny factory for the manufacture
of cheap wall-papers.... I had more than once strolled that way to look at about a dozen thin
and dishevelled boys with greasy smocks and worn faces, who were perpetually jumping on to
wooden levers, that pressed down the square blocks of the press, and so by the weight of their
feeble bodies struck off the variegated patterns of the wall-papers. The lodge on the right
stood empty, and was to let. One day--three weeks after the 9th of May--the blinds in the windows
of this lodge were drawn up, women's faces appeared at them--some family had installed themselves
in it. I remember the same day at dinner, my mother inquired of the butler who were our new
neighbours, and hearing the name of the Princess Zasyekin, first observed with some respect,
'Ah! a princess!' ... and then added, 'A poor one, I suppose?'

'They arrived in three hired flies,' the butler remarked deferentially, as he handed a dish:
'they don't keep their own carriage, and the furniture's of the poorest.'

'Ah,' replied my mother, 'so much the better.'

My father gave her a chilly glance; she was silent.

Certainly the Princess Zasyekin could not be a rich woman; the lodge she had taken was so dilapidated
and small and low-pitched that people, even moderately well-off in the world, would hardly
have consented to occupy it. At the time, however, all this went in at one ear and out at the
other. The princely title had very little effect on me; I had just been reading Schiller's Robbers.

II

I was in the habit of wandering about our garden every evening on the look-out for rooks. I
had long cherished a hatred for those wary, sly, and rapacious birds. On the day of which I
have been speaking, I went as usual into the garden, and after patrolling all the walks without
success (the rooks knew me, and merely cawed spasmodically at a distance), I chanced to go
close to the low fence which separated our domain from the narrow strip of garden stretching
beyond the lodge to the right, and belonging to it. I was walking along, my eyes on the ground.
Suddenly I heard a voice; I looked across the fence, and was thunder-struck.... I was confronted
with a curious spectacle.

A few paces from me on the grass between the green raspberry bushes stood a tall slender girl
in a striped pink dress, with a white kerchief on her head; four young men were close round
her, and she was slapping them by turns on the forehead with those small grey flowers, the
name of which I don't know, though they are well known to children; the flowers form little
bags, and burst open with a pop when you strike them against anything hard. The young men presented
their foreheads so eagerly, and in the gestures of the girl (I saw her in profile), there was
something so fascinating, imperious, caressing, mocking, and charming, that I almost cried
out with admiration and delight, and would, I thought, have given everything in the world on
the spot only to have had those exquisite fingers strike me on the forehead. My gun slipped
on to the grass, I forgot everything, I devoured with my eyes the graceful shape and neck and
lovely arms and the slightly disordered fair hair under the white kerchief, and the half-closed
clever eye, and the eyelashes and the soft cheek beneath them....

'Young man, hey, young man,' said a voice suddenly near me: 'is it quite permissible to stare
so at unknown young ladies?'

I started, I was struck dumb.... Near me, the other side of the fence, stood a man with close-cropped
black hair, looking ironically at me. At the same instant the girl too turned towards me....
I caught sight of big grey eyes in a bright mobile face, and the whole face suddenly quivered
and laughed, there was a flash of white teeth, a droll lifting of the eyebrows.... I crimsoned,
picked up my gun from the ground, and pursued by a musical but not ill-natured laugh, fled
to my own room, flung myself on the bed, and hid my face in my hands. My heart was fairly leaping;
I was greatly ashamed and overjoyed; I felt an excitement I had never known before.

After a rest, I brushed my hair, washed, and went downstairs to tea. The image of the young
girl floated before me, my heart was no longer leaping, but was full of a sort of sweet oppression.

'What's the matter?' my father asked me all at once: 'have you killed a rook?'

I was on the point of telling him all about it, but I checked myself, and merely smiled to
myself. As I was going to bed, I rotated--I don't know why--three times on one leg, pomaded
my hair, got into bed, and slept like a top all night. Before morning I woke up for an instant,
raised my head, looked round me in ecstasy, and fell asleep again.

III

'How can I make their acquaintance?' was my first thought when I waked in the morning. I went
out in the garden before morning tea, but I did not go too near the fence, and saw no one.
After drinking tea, I walked several times up and down the street before the house, and looked
into the windows from a distance.... I fancied her face at a curtain, and I hurried away in alarm.

'I must make her acquaintance, though,' I thought, pacing distractedly about the sandy plain
that stretches before Neskutchny park ... 'but how, that is the question.' I recalled the minutest
details of our meeting yesterday; I had for some reason or other a particularly vivid recollection
of how she had laughed at me.... But while I racked my brains, and made various plans, fate
had already provided for me.

In my absence my mother had received from her new neighbour a letter on grey paper, sealed
with brown wax, such as is only used in notices from the post-office or on the corks of bottles
of cheap wine. In this letter, which was written in illiterate language and in a slovenly hand,
the princess begged my mother to use her powerful influence in her behalf; my mother, in the
words of the princess, was very intimate with persons of high position, upon whom her fortunes
and her children's fortunes depended, as she had some very important business in hand. 'I address
myself to you,' she wrote, 'as one gentlewoman to another gentlewoman, and for that reason
am glad to avail myself of the opportunity.' Concluding, she begged my mother's permission
to call upon her. I found my mother in an unpleasant state of indecision; my father was not
at home, and she had no one of whom to ask advice. Not to answer a gentlewoman, and a princess
into the bargain, was impossible. But my mother was in a difficulty as to how to answer her.
To write a note in French struck her as unsuitable, and Russian spelling was not a strong point
with my mother herself, and she was aware of it, and did not care to expose herself. She was
overjoyed when I made my appearance, and at once told me to go round to the princess's, and
to explain to her by word of mouth that my mother would always be glad to do her excellency
any service within her powers, and begged her to come to see her at one o'clock. This unexpectedly
rapid fulfilment of my secret desires both delighted and appalled me. I made no sign, however,
of the perturbation which came over me, and as a preliminary step went to my own room to put
on a new necktie and tail coat; at home I still wore short jackets and lay-down collars, much
as I abominated them.

IV

In the narrow and untidy passage of the lodge, which I entered with an involuntary tremor in
all my limbs, I was met by an old grey-headed servant with a dark copper-coloured face, surly
little pig's eyes, and such deep furrows on his forehead and temples as I had never beheld
in my life. He was carrying a plate containing the spine of a herring that had been gnawed
at; and shutting the door that led into the room with his foot, he jerked out, 'What do you want?'

'Is the Princess Zasyekin at home?' I inquired.

'Vonifaty!' a jarring female voice screamed from within.

The man without a word turned his back on me, exhibiting as he did so the extremely threadbare
hindpart of his livery with a solitary reddish heraldic button on it; he put the plate down
on the floor, and went away.

'Did you go to the police station?' the same female voice called again. The man muttered something
in reply. 'Eh.... Has some one come?' I heard again.... 'The young gentleman from next door.
Ask him in, then.'

'Will you step into the drawing-room?' said the servant, making his appearance once more, and
picking up the plate from the floor. I mastered my emotions, and went into the drawing-room.

I found myself in a small and not over clean apartment, containing some poor furniture that
looked as if it had been hurriedly set down where it stood. At the window in an easy-chair
with a broken arm was sitting a woman of fifty, bareheaded and ugly, in an old green dress,
and a striped worsted wrap about her neck. Her small black eyes fixed me like pins.

I went up to her and bowed.

'I have the honour of addressing the Princess Zasyekin?'

'I am the Princess Zasyekin; and you are the son of Mr. V.?'

'Yes. I have come to you with a message from my mother.'

'Sit down, please. Vonifaty, where are my keys, have you seen them?'

I communicated to Madame Zasyekin my mother's reply to her note. She heard me out, drumming
with her fat red fingers on the window-pane, and when I had finished, she stared at me once more.

'Very good; I'll be sure to come,' she observed at last. 'But how young you are! How old are
you, may I ask?'

'Sixteen,' I replied, with an involuntary stammer.

The princess drew out of her pocket some greasy papers covered with writing, raised them right
up to her nose, and began looking through them.

'A good age,' she ejaculated suddenly, turning round restlessly on her chair. 'And do you,
pray, make yourself at home. I don't stand on ceremony.'

'No, indeed,' I thought, scanning her unprepossessing person with a disgust I could not restrain.

At that instant another door flew open quickly, and in the doorway stood the girl I had seen
the previous evening in the garden. She lifted her hand, and a mocking smile gleamed in her face.

'Here is my daughter,' observed the princess, indicating her with her elbow. 'Zinotchka, the
son of our neighbour, Mr. V. What is your name, allow me to ask?'

'Vladimir,' I answered, getting up, and stuttering in my excitement.

'And your father's name?'

'Petrovitch.'

'Ah! I used to know a commissioner of police whose name was Vladimir Petrovitch too. Vonifaty!
don't look for my keys; the keys are in my pocket.'

The young girl was still looking at me with the same smile, faintly fluttering her eyelids,
and putting her head a little on one side.

'I have seen Monsieur Voldemar before,' she began. (The silvery note of her voice ran through
me with a sort of sweet shiver.) 'You will let me call you so?'

'Oh, please,' I faltered.

'Where was that?' asked the princess.

The young princess did not answer her mother.

'Have you anything to do just now?' she said, not taking her eyes off me.

'Oh, no.'

'Would you like to help me wind some wool? Come in here, to me.'

She nodded to me and went out of the drawing-room. I followed her.

In the room we went into, the furniture was a little better, and was arranged with more taste.
Though, indeed, at the moment, I was scarcely capable of noticing anything; I moved as in a
dream and felt all through my being a sort of intense blissfulness that verged on imbecility.

The young princess sat down, took out a skein of red wool and, motioning me to a seat opposite
her, carefully untied the skein and laid it across my hands. All this she did in silence with
a sort of droll deliberation and with the same bright sly smile on her slightly parted lips.
She began to wind the wool on a bent card, and all at once she dazzled me with a glance so
brilliant and rapid, that I could not help dropping my eyes. When her eyes, which were generally
half closed, opened to their full extent, her face was completely transfigured; it was as though
it were flooded with light.

'What did you think of me yesterday, M'sieu Voldemar?' she asked after a brief pause. 'You
thought ill of me, I expect?'

'I ... princess ... I thought nothing ... how can I?...' I answered in confusion.

'Listen,' she rejoined. 'You don't know me yet. I'm a very strange person; I like always to
be told the truth. You, I have just heard, are sixteen, and I am twenty-one: you see I'm a
great deal older than you, and so you ought always to tell me the truth ... and to do what
I tell you,' she added. 'Look at me: why don't you look at me?'

I was still more abashed; however, I raised my eyes to her. She smiled, not her former smile,
but a smile of approbation. 'Look at me,' she said, dropping her voice caressingly: 'I don't
dislike that ... I like your face; I have a presentiment we shall be friends. But do you like
me?' she added slyly.

'Princess ...' I was beginning.

'In the first place, you must call me Zinaida Alexandrovna, and in the second place it's a
bad habit for children'--(she corrected herself) 'for young people--not to say straight out
what they feel. That's all very well for grown-up people. You like me, don't you?'

Though I was greatly delighted that she talked so freely to me, still I was a little hurt.
I wanted to show her that she had not a mere boy to deal with, and assuming as easy and serious
an air as I could, I observed, 'Certainly. I like you very much, Zinaida Alexandrovna; I have
no wish to conceal it.'

She shook her head very deliberately. 'Have you a tutor?' she asked suddenly.

'No; I've not had a tutor for a long, long while.'

I told a lie; it was not a month since I had parted with my Frenchman.

'Oh! I see then--you are quite grown-up.'

She tapped me lightly on the fingers. 'Hold your hands straight!' And she applied herself busily
to winding the ball.

I seized the opportunity when she was looking down and fell to watching her, at first stealthily,
then more and more boldly. Her face struck me as even more charming than on the previous evening;
everything in it was so delicate, clever, and sweet. She was sitting with her back to a window
covered with a white blind, the sunshine, streaming in through the blind, shed a soft light
over her fluffy golden curls, her innocent neck, her sloping shoulders, and tender untroubled
bosom. I gazed at her, and how dear and near she was already to me! It seemed to me I had known
her a long while and had never known anything nor lived at all till I met her.... She was wearing
a dark and rather shabby dress and an apron; I would gladly, I felt, have kissed every fold
of that dress and apron. The tips of her little shoes peeped out from under her skirt; I could
have bowed down in adoration to those shoes.... 'And here I am sitting before her,' I thought;
'I have made acquaintance with her ... what happiness, my God!' I could hardly keep from jumping
up from my chair in ecstasy, but I only swung my legs a little, like a small child who has
been given sweetmeats.

I was as happy as a fish in water, and I could have stayed in that room for ever, have never
left that place.

Her eyelids were slowly lifted, and once more her clear eyes shone kindly upon me, and again
she smiled.

'How you look at me!' she said slowly, and she held up a threatening finger.

