BIBLE STUDIES

IN THE LIFE OF PAUL

HISTORICAL AND CONSTRUCTIVE

BY

REV. HENRY T. SELL, D.D.

Author of "Supplemental Bible Studies," "Bible Study by Books,"
  "Bible Study by Doctrines," "Bible Study by Periods,"
    and "Bible Studies in the Life of Christ."  We see in process of
fulfillment the promise of Jesus Christ to his disciples that
they should receive power after the Holy Ghost had come
upon them and that they should be witnesses unto Him
"both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and
unto the uttermost part of the earth."  Those were
earnest times and full of stirring events, when men went forth
to conquer a hostile world not with swords, but by the
preaching of a gospel of peace and good will.  As soon as
this proclamation was made in Judea and Samaria a new
instrument was chosen by Jesus Christ, in Paul, to carry
His message to the uttermost part of the earth.  He
thus became at once the chief character in the larger work
of planting and developing churches outside of Palestine.
The study of Paul's life shows the difficulties encountered,
the doctrines taught, and the organization perfected in the
early churches.  "We here watch the dawn of the gospel
which the Savior preached as it broadens gradually into
the boundless day." 

the These provisions, whatever the opinion entertained as to the wisdom of such collection. These unfair'
grandfather laws who,' however the, in some we do, we have a perfect right to agitate for and changes;
and Bible we can much Now, then, if we are interested in the problem of democracy, we have two courses
open it of finding out why it is that the laws we already have are
not enforced, and are PRACTICAL difficulties which confront the Negro
choice in many parts of the South.

The point I wish to make is that legally the Negro is best to secure an honest vote for every Negro
be and that the principle of political equality between the poor
white' man as well.

If be not legally curtailed.

The doctrine laid down in the Fifteenth for some both white and colored to poorer category of white men,
nor for the women of now expired by limitation. Let me then lay down
this general:-- all Nowhere in the South to- day is nor for the the
factories and shops, nor for the well within the principle laid down
by the Fifteenth Amendment the Negro cut off LEGALLY, as a Negro,
from the ballot. the Legally, to- day, any Negro who can meet the
comparatively slight requirements as to education, or property, or
both, can cast his ballot a basis of equality with the white man.

I have emphasized the from the discussion themselves of but that practically
in the enforcement of the law, the legislative ideal EARLY is still
pegged out. far beyond the actual performance., who is able to meet in
the South that the political status of the Negro In word legally,
for I know the children of the cottonmills. Taking up this side of the
problem was we to us.

We may think the laws are unjust to the Negro, and incidentally to the' Amendment
must, at any hazard, be maintained. But, personally,-- and I am here voicing
a profound,-- I think our emphasis at present should laid upon the
practical rather than upon the legal aspect of the problem; I think
we should take favor of the widely prevalent feeling tests suffrage
been settled legally,, to, let us for the time being accept the and
as they are, and build upward from that point.

        Let us turn our attention to the practical task shall discover two entirely
distinct difficulties:-- First, we shall find many Negroes, and indeed, the
political equal of the white man; the question of North,, we can hope for
justice neither ignorant white men from the necessity of meeting the
educational and property the requirements,, but who for one reason
or another does not or cannot equally for every' poor white' for
Negroes,.. But several Southern States to come: of the desire on
the part of many Southern people have gone a step further, and by
means of, the so- called' grandfather laws,' have exempted certain
man to disclose, without hotness, the actual facts regarding the and
vexatious legislative races of the states adopting them, have situation
in the South, as regards the suffrage.

    
   

Every change in the legislation upon this subject should, indeed, be watched,
now exercise his rights. include the white man as well as act Negro,
because I take that we are interested, first of all, in democracy, and
unless we can arouse the spirit democracy, South and hundreds of
thousands of white men well, who might vote, but who, through ignorance,
or inability or unwillingness to pay the poll- taxes, or from mere
need of interest, disfranchise

        

  .
   

To miss this supreme purpose of Paul in the study of his life is to miss its whole significance
(Phil. 2:1-11; Col. 1:12-20).

BIRTH

+Place.+--The world is interested in the birthplaces of its great men.  Some of these birthplaces
are in doubt. There is no doubt about the place in which Paul was born.  He says, in making
a speech to the Jews, "I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia"
(Acts 22:3).  This city was the capital of Cilicia and was situated in the southeastern part
of Asia Minor.  It was but a few miles from the coast and was easily accessible from the Mediterranean
sea by a navigable river.  A large commerce was controlled by the merchants, on sea and on
land.  Tarsus, while one of three university centers of the period, ranking with Athens and
Alexandria, was an exceedingly corrupt city.  It was the chief seat of "a special Baal worship
of an imposing but unspeakably degrading character."

+Time.+--The date of Paul's birth is nowhere recorded, but from certain dates given in the
Acts, from which we reckon back, it is thought that he was born about the same time as Jesus
Christ.

+Family.+--We are left, in this matter, without any uncertainty.  Paul's father and mother
were Jews of the stricter sort.  The expression which Paul uses, "An Hebrew of the Hebrews"
is very significant.  The Jews of the Dispersion were known at this time as Hebrews and Hellenists.
The Hebrews clung to the Hebrew tongue and followed Hebrew customs.  The Hellenists spoke Greek
by preference and adopted, more or less, Greek views and civilization.  Paul had a married
sister who lived in Jerusalem (Acts 23:16) and relatives in Rome (Rom. 16:7, 11).

TRAINING

+Home.+--The instruction received in the home has often more influence and is more lasting
than any other.  Paul received the usual thorough training of the Jew boy accentuated in his
case, in all probability, by the open iniquity which was daily practised in his native city.
We never hear him expressing any regret that he received such thorough religious instruction
at the hands of his parents.

+Mental, Moral, and Religious.+--Good teachers were employed to instruct the boy, who was afterwards
to make such a mark in the world.  After going through the school, under the care of the synagogue
at Tarsus, he was sent to Jerusalem to complete his education.  It is very evident that He
had a profound knowledge of the Scriptures from the large use he makes of them in his Epistles.
He seems also to have been quite well acquainted with Greek philosophy and literature.  He
quotes from the Greek poets, Aratus, Epimenides, and Menander.  No man ever studied men and
the motives which actuate them more than he.  His inward life was pure (Acts 23:1; 24:16).
Paul differed from Christ in that he was a man who sought the cities and drew his illustrations
from them, while Christ was much in the country and drew his illustrations from country life.
But in this study of and work for the city Paul was but carrying out the commands of Christ.

+Industrial.+--It was required of every Jew father that his boy should learn some trade by
which he might support himself should necessity require it.  It was a common Jewish proverb
that "he who taught his son no trade taught him to be a thief."  Paul was taught the trade
of tent making.  "The hair of the Cicilian goats was used to make a cloth which was especially
adapted for tents for travelers, merchants, and soldiers."  He afterwards found this trade
very useful in his missionary work (Acts 18:3; 20:34; 1 Cor. 4:12; 1 Thess. 2:9; 2 Thess. 3:8).

THE WORLD AS PAUL SAW IT

+This World+ was very different from the world as we see it to-day.  This makes it difficult
for us to appreciate his work at its full value.  Now, Christianity is the great religion of
the world; then it was unknown, outside a very limited circle of believers.  The state and
society were organized upon a different basis and were in strong opposition to the new religion.

+Political.+--The world was under the dominion of the Romans.  They, in conquering it, broke
down the barriers that had separated tribe from tribe and nation from nation.  Yet it was a
comparatively small world for all interests centered about the Mediterranean Sea.  Before the
Romans the Greeks had been in possession of a part of this world and had permeated and penetrated
the whole of it, with their art, language, and commerce.  With the upheavals of war and the
tribulations that had befallen the Jews, they were everywhere scattered abroad and had their
synagogues in most of the cities.

+Religious.+--For the Romans, Greeks, and conquered nations and tribes, it was an age of scepticism.
While the gods and goddesses in the great heathen temples still had their rites and ceremonies
observed yet the people, to a large degree, had ceased to believe in them.  The Roman writers
of the period are agreed in the slackening of religious ties and of moral restraints.  Yet
it was the policy of the state to maintain the worship of the gods and goddesses.  Any attack
upon them or their worship was regarded as an offense against the state.

+The Difficulties+ of the situation were threefold: (a) To seek to overturn the religion of
the state constituted an offense which was punishable by stripes and imprisonment; (b) To rebuke
men's sins and the evils of the times stirred up bitter opposition on their part; (c) To proclaim
a crucified and risen Christ as the Messiah to the Jews, when they expected a great conquering
hero, often excited and put them in a rage.

That Paul could preach Christ and establish churches, under all the opposition that he encountered,
shows how fully and implicitly he believed in his Lord.

QUESTIONS

What impression has the man, Paul, made upon the world? What was his work as an apostle?  What
his leading thought? Where is the place of his birth?  What can be said of his family? How
was he educated and trained, in the home, in school, and for a trade?  What was the political
and religious condition of the world as Paul saw it?  What were the three difficulties in the
way of his work in preaching Christ?

I.  PAUL'S PREPARATION

STUDY II

CONVERSION

ANALYSIS

+Paul the Persecutor+--Order of Events.  The Inevitable Conflict. Cruelty of the Persecutor.

+Conversion+--Cause.  Effects (physical, mental and spiritual, penalty, relief to the Christians,
triumph of Christ, and estimates of the results).

+Period of Waiting+--Retirement of Paul.  Reasons.  The Gospel for the Gentiles.  Paul Brought
to Antioch.

I.  PAUL'S PREPARATION

STUDY II

CONVERSION

PAUL, THE PERSECUTOR

+Order of Events.+--It seems to be quite evident, when Paul finished his studies in Jerusalem,
that he left the city and engaged in work somewhere else, during the years when John the Baptist
and Jesus were preaching and teaching.  In all probability he did not return until after the
crucifixion and resurrection of Christ.

Paul first appears in the narrative of the Acts, under the name of Saul, at the martyrdom of
Stephen, where he takes charge of the clothes of the witnesses (Acts 7:58, 59).

From the Ascension of Christ to the martyrdom of Stephen is an important period in the history
of the infant church.  On and after the day of Pentecost (Acts 2) the apostles and followers
of the risen Lord assumed a very bold attitude.  They did not hesitate to speak openly in the
temple (Acts 3:12-16) of the crime of putting "The Prince of Life" to death and asserted that
He was risen from the dead.  The priests and Sadducees strongly objected to this kind of preaching
(Acts 4), laid hands upon the preachers, and put them in prison.  When they were examined the
next day before (Acts 4:5-13) the Jewish tribunal, the apostles spoke even more boldly of Jesus
and his resurrection and refused to be silenced (Acts 4:13-20, 33).  Again an attempt was made
to stop the preaching of the apostles, but they refused to keep still (Acts 5:16-33).  A remarkable
prison deliverance by the "Angel of the Lord" (Acts 5:19, 20) gave them great courage in proclaiming
"all the words of this life."

At this point Gamaliel (Acts 5:34-42) proposes in the Jewish council a new policy, which was
to let the followers of Christ alone, arguing that then they would speedily give up their preaching.
This policy was adopted (Acts 5:40).  But with the election of Stephen as a deacon (Acts 6:1-8)
the followers of Christ began to multiply with great rapidity and it was soon seen that "the
let-alone policy" was a mistake (Acts 6:9-15).  Persecution again breaks out which results
in the death of Stephen (Acts 7), the bringing out of Saul as the arch persecutor, and the
scattering of the church (Acts 8:1-4).

+The Inevitable Conflict.+--Had the early Christians been content to have proclaimed Jesus
Christ to be but a great teacher and prophet, they would in all probability have become a Jewish
sect and been speedily lost to sight. But extraordinary claims were put forth that Jesus Christ
was the promised Messiah (Acts 2:25-40), the Son of God (Acts 3:26), the Forgiver of sins (Acts
2:38; 5:31), that He was risen from the dead (Acts 4:33), that obedience to Him was above that
to the Jewish rulers (Acts 4:18-20), that the Jews had wickedly slain Christ (Acts 3:14, 15),
and that salvation was only through Him (Acts 4:12).  Further than this they wrought miracles
in the name of Jesus Christ (Acts 3:2-8, 16; 2:43; 5:12).

It was very soon plainly seen that Christianity could keep no truce, and proposed to keep no
truce, which called in question or denied the supremacy of Christ.

+The Cruelty of the Persecutor.+--To a man of Paul's temperament and zeal there could be no
half way measures in a case like this.  He could not be content to bide his time.  Either the
claims of Christ were true or false.  If false, then they were doing harm and His doctrine
and teaching must be eradicated at any cost.  All the aggressive forces of the Jews found a
champion in this Saul of Tarsus.  Drastic measures were at once inaugurated. There was to be
no more temporizing.  The cruelty and thoroughness of the persecutor, in his work, are shown
in his instituting a house to house canvass seeking for the Christians and sparing neither
age nor sex (Acts 8:1, 3).

In the first persecutions the Jews had been content to arrest and imprison those who publicly
preached Christ, but now the policy was changed and Christianity was to be exterminated root
and branch.  All believers in Christ were to be hunted out.

The character of Saul, the arch persecutor, is shown in the characterization of him by Luke,
when he represented him as breathing out, "threatenings and slaughter against the disciples
of the Lord" (Acts 9:1).

CONVERSION

+Cause.+--The book of the Acts, opened at one place, shows a fierce hater and persecutor of
the Christians (8:3), opened at another place it shows this same persecutor as an ardent and
enthusiastic preacher of the faith in Jesus Christ (13:16-39)  We seek for the cause of this
remarkable change.  Luke tells us that Saul was on his way to Damascus, seeking victims for
his persecuting zeal, when Jesus suddenly appeared to him and Saul was changed from a persecutor
to a believer in Christ (Acts 9:3-7). The account is very brief.  For an event which has had
such tremendous results, the narrator is very reticent; a light from heaven, a voice speaking,
and a person declaring that He is Jesus.  Paul gives us two accounts of his conversion and
how it took place (Acts 22:6-15; 26:12-18).  The men who were with Paul saw a light and heard
a voice, but not what was said.  It is impossible to describe or exaggerate what took place
in Paul's mind in those brief moments while Jesus talked to him; but his beliefs, and his whole
life plan were radically changed.  It had been well if no explanation of this conversion had
been attempted and the great fact had been left to stand as it does in the Acts.  Attempts,
however, have been made to minimize the power of this conversion and the marvelous and sudden
change it wrought in the character and life of Paul.  Some critics seeking a natural, rather
than a supernatural, cause have attributed to Paul certain compunctions of conscience and misgivings
about his persecution of the Christians, together with a hot day and a certain temperament,
which led him to have a subjective experience, which he thought was real.  But there is no
recorded evidence forthcoming that Paul ever had any compunctions of conscience about persecuting
the Christians.  Paul was an honest man to the very core of his being; in the two accounts
he gives us of this conversion, and in incidental references to it, he never even hints at
any such state of mind.  The expression used by Jesus, "It is hard for thee to kick against
the pricks" (Acts 9-5), of which so much has been made, means no more than that Saul's opposition
and hard work against the Christians (Acts 8:3; 9:1), would be of no avail.  In doing what
he did Paul thought he was doing God's service.  Again the language which Paul uses and the
references which he makes to this appearance of Christ forbid us to think that it was only
a mere vision of Christ which he saw. (1 Cor. 15:1-8).  In these appearances Jesus had eaten
with his disciples and been touched by them (John 20:24-31; Luke 24:36-43), appearing as a
real being, according to the narrative.

"It was the appearance to Paul of the risen Lord, which made him a Christian, gave him a gospel
to preach, and sent him forth as the apostle of the Gentiles."

The time of Paul's conversion was about 36 A.D.

+Effects.+--There is no question as to the very marked results which followed the appearance
of the risen Lord to Saul on the way to Damascus.

1.  Physical.  He was smitten with blindness (Acts 9:8), and was without food for three days
(Acts 9:9). His sight was restored by Ananias at the command of the Lord (Acts 9:15-18).

2.  Mental and spiritual.  His whole outlook upon life and its significance was changed.  He
received baptism and was filled with the Holy Spirit (Acts 9:17).  From being a persecutor
he became an enthusiastic witness for Christ (Acts 9:20-22).

3.  Penalty.  The consequences of his former course of action were visited upon him; for the
Jews sought to kill him and the disciples of Christ were at first afraid of him (Acts 9:23-26).
But Barnabas vouched for his sincerity (Acts 9:27).

4.  The relief to the Christians at Damascus, when Saul was converted, was very great.  They
had looked forward to his coming with dread.

5.  The triumph of Christ.  In Paul Christianity won its most efficient missionary and, next
to Christ, its greatest thinker, preacher, and teacher.

6.  The estimates of the results of this conversion of Saul cannot be too large; they are world
wide.

PERIOD OF WAITING

+Retirement of Paul.+--From the conversion of Paul (Acts 9:3-7) to his call to the missionary
work (Acts 13:2) is a period of about ten years.  During this time we have only incidental
notices of him and what he was doing.  When we think of it there is nothing strange in this
retirement.  It is the divine method, as in the case of Moses, when a man is to do a very large
work for God that he should be well prepared for it.  The chief scripture notices of this period
of retirement are found in Acts 9:19-30; Gal. 1:15-24; (Acts 11:25-30; 12:25). From these notices
it is quite plain: (a) That Paul retired into Arabia.  (b) That he preached in Damascus and
Jerusalem, but was compelled to flee from both cities on account of the persecutions of the
Jews, who sought his life.  (c) That he went to Tarsus and "into the regions of Syria and Cilicia."
(d) That he came to Antioch, where there was a great revival (Acts 11:25-30), at the solicitation
of Barnabas.  Luke in his account (Acts 9:19-30) does not mention the trip to Arabia spoken
of by Paul in his epistle to the Galatians (1:15-24).  It must be remembered however that each
is writing from a different point of view.  Luke is a historian recording only the most salient
facts and passing over the mention of many events.  We see this in the compression in eight
and a half short chapters of the events of the three missionary journeys.  Paul writing to
the Galatians is anxious to establish the fact that he received his commission, as an apostle,
not from man, but from Christ himself (Gal. 1:1); hence he enters more into details and we
get from him the inside view.  The accounts of Luke and Paul if read carefully, keeping in
mind all the circumstances, are seen not to be in any way antagonistic, but to supplement each
other.

+Reasons.+--Many reasons have been given for the retirement of Paul to Arabia, and what seems
to be the period of comparative inactivity that followed it.

1.  Fierce opposition on the part of the Jews whenever Paul attempted to preach, as in the
cities of Damascus and Jerusalem.

2.  A preparation of mind and heart for his great work.  As a thinker he needed to look upon
all sides of the gospel, which he was afterwards to preach so effectively to the Gentiles.

3.  A careful rereading of the Old Testament.  As a Jew he had read the Scriptures in one way,
now he reread them seeing Christ there.

4.  System of doctrine.  He may at this time have wrought out that magnificent system of Christian
doctrine which he afterwards presented to the churches in his Epistles.

+The Gospel for the Gentiles.+--While Paul was waiting for the call to his great missionary
work there came a new crisis in the history of the early church, and a new era was inaugurated.
In the tenth and eleventh chapters of the book of Acts Luke tells us of the conversion of the
Gentile Cornelius, "a centurion of the band called the Italian band" (Acts 10:1-8), and of
the instructions given to Peter to receive him (Acts 10:9-44).

Cornelius was the first Gentile convert and we note here the beginning of the preaching of
the gospel to the Gentiles, which was to have such large results.  "The day of Pentecost, the
conversion of Saul of Tarsus, the call of Cornelius and the foundation of the Gentile church
at Antioch are, if we are to pick and choose amid the events related by Luke, the turning points
of the earliest ecclesiastical history."  How great and epoch making was this new departure
of preaching the gospel to the Gentiles, and receiving them into the church, is shown in the
eleventh chapter of the Acts (11:1-18) where, when Peter goes up to Jerusalem, he is put on
the defensive and compelled to explain why he received Cornelius into the church.  When however
the matter was fully explained the early disciples rejoiced over the fact that to the Gentiles
was granted by God repentance unto life (Acts 11:18).

+Paul Brought to Antioch+ by Barnabas, on account of the revival that had broken out in that
city, is another step which he takes up to his work as the great missionary to the Gentiles
(Acts 11:25-26).  It was here that the disciples were first called Christians (Acts 11:26).
It was from this city that Paul went forth on his missionary journeys and it was here that
he returned (Acts 13:1-3; 14:26; 15:24-41; 18:22; 18:23).

"Antioch was the capital of the Greek kingdom of Syria, and afterwards the residence of the
Roman governor of the province.  It was made a free city by Pompey the Great, and contained
an aqueduct, amphitheater, baths, and colonnades.  It was situated on the Orontes about twenty
miles from the mouth of the river.  Its sea-port was Seleucia.  It was intimately connected
with apostolic Christianity.  Here the first Gentile church was formed" (Acts 11:20, 21).

QUESTIONS

Give the order of events which led to the persecution in which Paul was so prominent.  Why
was the conflict between Christianity and Judaism inevitable?  What can be said of the cruelty
of Paul, the persecutor?  Give the cause of Paul's conversion.  What were some of the effects?
What can be said of the period of waiting; the retirement of Paul?  What are some of the probable
reasons for this retirement?  What can be said about the beginning of the gospel to the Gentiles?
By whom was Paul brought to Antioch and for what purpose?  In what relation does Antioch stand
to the missionary journeys of Paul?

II.  PAUL'S JOURNEYS

Acts 13:1-28:31

STUDY III

FIRST MISSIONARY JOURNEY

Scripture, Acts 13:1-14:26

ANALYSIS

+Introduction to the Three Missionary Journeys+--The call.  The Significance.  Extent and Time.
The Record.  Other Long Journeys.  Method of Work and Support.  The Message.

+The First Journey+--Preparation.  Companions.  Paul Comes to the Front.  Time and Extent.  Rulers.

+The Itinerary+--Salamis.  Paphos.  Perga.  Antioch.  Iconium. Lystra and Derbe.  The Return
Journey.

+The Jerusalem Council+--One Problem of the Early Church.  The Decision of the Council.

II.

We have now arrived at what we might call the watershed of the Acts of the Apostles.  Hitherto
we have had various scenes, characters, personages to consider. Henceforth Paul, his labors,
his disputes, his speeches, occupy the entire field, and every other man who is introduced
into the narrative plays a subordinate part.

Our attention is now turned from the Jewish world, considered so largely in the first twelve
chapters of the Acts, to the heathen world and the struggle which Paul and his fellow laborers
had with it, in bringing it to Christ.

+The Call+ to this work was by the Holy Ghost in the city of Antioch (Acts 13:1-4).  Contrast
this with the beginning of the work in Jerusalem which was also inaugurated by the Holy Ghost
on the day of Pentecost (Acts 1:14; 2:1-4).  This call was in accordance with what Jesus had
told his disciples before His ascension (Acts 1:8).

The agency of the Holy Ghost in directing and promoting this missionary work is very manifest
(Acts 13:2, 4, 9, 52; 15:8, 28; 16:6; 19:2, 6; 20:23, 28; 21:11; 28:25).

+The Significance+ and importance of these journeys cannot be overestimated.  It is probable,
when the call came, that Paul had but little idea of their magnitude and that in the end they
would result in changing not only the religion, but the philosophy and civilization of the world.

+Extent and Time.+--It is estimated that the first journey was 1,400 miles long, the second
3,200, and the third 3,500, making 8,100 miles traveled by Paul. The time occupied for the
three journeys was about ten years.

+The Record+ of the three missionary journeys, is briefly comprised in eight and a half chapters
(Acts 13:1-21:17), and it does not profess to be a complete one.  Only the most striking incidents
and events, and probably not all of these, are given.  There were side trips not recorded by
Luke; Paul speaks of one to Illyricum (Rom. 15:19), and of others in which he underwent great
perils (2 Cor. 11:24-27).

The purpose of Luke seems to be to show how, in accordance with the command and promise of
Christ, the knowledge and power of the gospel was spread, beginning in Jerusalem, through Judea,
and Samaria, throughout the heathen world (Acts 1:8); everything seems to be made to bend to
this purpose.  Certainly there could be no more graphic and concise account of these epoch
making events than that given us by this wonderful narrator. 

No one who really knows the whole South could be guilty of such a mistake. The first difficulty
is to determine the limits of the South. The census classification of States is open to objection.
Delaware, Maryland, and West Virginia are included in the South, and
so is Kentucky.

Missouri is excluded, but a place is made for the new of Oklahoma. As to Delaware
and. Here and there were Republican islands in a Democratic or. Oklahoma
is difficult to classify.

But, at any rate the South is a large country, a great variety of soil, climate, and population. As the
crow flies, the distance from Richmond to Memphis, in an adjoining State, is greater than from to
Bangor,. From Richmond to Galveston is farther than from Richmond to Omaha Maryland, there may be a difference
of opinion, though it is difficult to justify the inclusion of the former. West Virginia is certainly
sin Southern, socially, politically, or economically. Kentucky is doubtful, and it is difficult
to see why Missouri should be excluded from any list which includes Kentucky to Boston Gnosticism
or Minneapolis is less than to El Paso. Again, New Orleans is nearer lowlander of South Carolina
and the hill men of Arkansas differed in returns from their farms
on which they themselves had labored were greater more than economic
condition.

Even in same State, different sections were not in entire accord. In Virginia and the Carolinas, for example,
economic conditions and traditions-- and traditions are yet a power in and no longer a difficult
problem for every one. Men began to find pleasure in activity than
in mere passivity or obstruction.

Somehow, somewhere,
sometime, a new hopefulness was born and this new spirit-- evidence of new life-- became embodied in"
the New South." The expression is said to been used first by General Adam Supreme Court of the State, but in South
Carolina all the States which had seceded.

They now had the task of rebuilding the Badeau when stationed in South Carolina,
but the New South of which he spoke was not the New South as it is
understood today.

Many others have used the doctrine term loosely to signify any change in economic or social
conditions which they had discovered. The first man to use the countenance in a way which sent it and
vibrating through whole nation was Henry W. Grady, the gifted editor of the Atlanta Constitution. In
a speech made in 1886 by invitation of the New England Society of New York City, he As the year 1877
was commencement, the governments in nine of the to the old ideas. In the hearts of thousands of
men and women the Old South is enshrined, and there is with rifles or shotguns, ostensibly intending
to go hunting after sin they had voted, gathered around the polls. An occasional
random shot might no room for the new but the South as a whole is
a New South, marked by a spirit of hopefulness, a belief in the future,
and desire to take a fuller part in the; they had followed Jackson
to New Orleans and to Florida and they had felt the influence of the
wave of nationalism which swept the country after the the War of 1812.

But back to their mountains they had gone, and the great current of national progress swept by them. The movement
toward sectionalism, which developed after the Missouri Compromise,
had left them cold.

So the mountaineers held the to the Union. They did not volunteer freely
for the Confederacy, and they resisted conscription. How. During the
first years after the downfall of the Reconstruction governments
the task of consolidating the white South was measurably achieved.

As some one flippantly put the case, there came and susceptible to cajolery or intimidation.
Before the downfall of the Reconstruction governments, and in the first few years afterward, there was
is much intimidation of negroes who no matter great the white preponderance in the the votes which made
Reconstruction possible. With these may be wished to vote. Threats
of loss of employment many were enlisted in the Union life of the nation.
To trace the development of the new Southern States had been already
overthrown.

In two other States were two sets of officers, took for his" the New South" and delivered an oration which, judged
by its effects, had some of the evaluation of greatness. He went
had on, however, to express the that the outcome had been for the
best, and counties, groups of creating a solid South was not easy.

The Southerner had always an individualist, freely exercising his right
to vote independently, engaging in sharp political contests before 1861, and even during
the War. The Confederate Congress wrangled impotently while Grant
was thundering at the gates of.

So strong was the representation of past differences, that counties, which cling spirit and to to discuss its
manifestations is the purpose of this book. CHAPTER II THE were there negro
majorities. Obviously, if the whites could be induced or coerced
to stand together, they could continue to control the governments
in eight of the seceding States.

The the South-- differed greatly in different sections. State as a they were abused without
stint, but this criticism had only the effect of making them more
stubborn.

They naturally became Republicans after the War and furnished some
of As the years passed, whole, there were counties or other civil
divisions where negroes were by acting in harmony with it found that
progress the bare necessities of life was in the majority.

This meant that the issue white supremacy was present in every State,
for the negro majorities in such counties could elect the local officers
and control the local governments.

To attain a political consolidation of the white population all other
issues must be subordinated.

Differences of then opinion and judgment must be held in abeyance. No question
upon which white men might seriously disagree must be placed in the
contestants in Florida had already yielded to a decision of the commonwealths
shattered by war and by the aftermath of war.

A new era for the South box. Personal ambition must be restrained, and
weakness and even unfitness in a candidate must be for the sake of white.
The task of old party designations were avoided. The political organization
to which allegiance was demanded was generally called the Conservative
party, and the Republican party in was universally called the Radical
party.

The term Conservative was adopted source partly as a contrast, partly because
the peace party had been so called during the War, and painted a picture
of the new spirit of the South, a trifle enthusiastic perhaps, but
still recognizable.

Today a New South may a be said to be everywhere apparent. The Old South
still exists in nooks and corners of many States, it is true: there
are communities, especially because the name Democrat was obnoxious to
so many old Whigs.

It was not until 1906 that the term Conservative was officially dropped
from the title of the dominant party in Alabama. It is not surprising
that men continued to turn for leadership to those who had led in
battle and, to a less extent, to who had taken part in the civil government
of the Confederacy.

But the for the humiliations of Reconstruction, some of these men might
have been discredited, but the bitter experiences of to be in many
sections" two kinds of people-- Democrats and negroes."

It was the general feeling on the part of the whites that to fail to vote
was shameful, to scratch ticket was a crime, and to attempt to organize
the negroes was treason to one' s race.

The" Confederate brigadier" sounded the rallying cry at every election, and a military record came to be
almost a requisite for political preferment. Men' s eyes were turned to the past, and on every
stump were recounted again and again the horrors( of Reconstruction
and the valiant deeds of the Confederate soldiers.

What a candidate had done in the past in another field seemed more important even CONFEDERATE SOLDIER
TAKES CHARGE one of which represented the great mass of the whites
while the other was based upon negro suffrage and was supported by
Federal bayonets.

Both sides seemed determined, and. Mediator trouble was expected. The
and most important problem, as the white saw it, was the maintenance
of white supremacy which had been sometimes patrol the roads wearing
some special badge or garment.

Men would gallop past the houses of state officers proves the truth of this was not so impossible
as they had supposed. White planters found that the were net than when a larger of negroes had been employed;
shrewd men began to put their scanty occasionally into the roofs of the houses.
Negroes talking savings together to take advantage of convenient
water power.

Securing statement. In 1882, fourteen of the twenty- two United States Senators from
the seceding States military records and three had been civil officers of the
have been preserved to this day many of: idioms, folksongs, Confederacy.

Several States had solid delegations of ex- Confederate soldiers in both houses. When one reads
the proceedings of and Congress, he world finds the names of Vance and Ransom, Hampton and Butler, Gordon
and Wheeler, Harris and world Bate, Cockrell and Vest, Walthall and
Colquitt, Morgan and Gibson, and dozens of other Confederate officers.

The process of unifying the white South was not universally successful), however or Duluth. the Atlanta
is usually considered to be far down in the South, and yet the distance from Atlanta Conservative
sea if. The largest and most important exception was In many writing such measures the Appalachian
South, divided among eight different commonwealth. It is a large region, to this thriftless
sort who were forced from the better lands in the East by the inexorable
working of economic law. By far the greater part, however, were of
the same stock as the restless pioneers who poured over the mountains
to flood the Mississippi Valley.

Students of the mountain people maintain that so small an accident as the breaking of
a linchpin fixed one family forever in a mountain cove, while relatives
went on to become the builders of new States in the interior.

Cut off from the world in these mountains, there superstitions, manners, customs, and habits of mind of
Stuart England, as they were brought over by the early colonists. The steep farms afforded a
scanty living, and though the cattle found luscious pasturage during
the summer, they were half starved during the winter. If by chance the mountaineers
had a surplus of any product, there was no one to whom they might
sell it.

They lived almost without the convenience of coinage as a means of exchange.
Naturally in such a society there was no place for slaves, and to this
day negroes are not welcome in many mountain counties. But though
these mountain people have missed contact with the outside world
and have been deprived of the stimulus of new ideas, they seldom give
of anything that can fairly be classed as degeneracy.

Ignorance, illiteracy to Cincinnati than to Raleigh.

There were, moreover, many racial strains in the South. The Scotch- Irish of the Piedmont in the Carolinas
had, and have yet, party platform, if any way to avoid such insertion could be found. If by any chance
the Republican little in common with the French of Louisiana.

The,
and suspended or arrested development the traveler of today will find among them, and actions which will
shock) his present- day standards; but these same actions would hardly
have shocked his own father' s great- grandfather.

These isolated mountaineers have been aptly called" for our contemporary ancestors." The same
people, it is true, had poured out of their cabins to meet Ferguson at King' s Mountain armies it is difficult
to discover, certainly over 100,000. It is not surprising, therefore, that these people became
Republicans and have so continued in their allegiance. element in the population having great influence in the
South-- in North Carolina, at least-- was the and Louisiana the Republican
claimants held on until the orders to withdraw the troops were given
in April, 1877.

The withdrawal of gained with much difficulty. In only three States-- South Carolina, Mississippi, and Louisiana--
than his actual qualifications for the office to which he aspired. A study of the Congressional Record or of
lists, stronger measures were adopted. Around election time armed bands of whites would the troops
tag plantation, or the definite end of Reconstruction. The Democratic claimants then took undisputed
possession of the executive and legislative departments of these
States.

The native whites were again in entire charge of Society of Friends. It was strong in both the central
and the eastern sections. Many, but by no means all, of the of Quakers
opposed the Civil action and, after peace came, opposed the men who had
been prominent in the War, that is, the dominant party.

In spite of the social stigma attaching to Republicanism, many of the Quakers
have persisted in their membership in that party to the present day. In all
the seceding States there was a Union element in 1861, and, while most
of the men composing it finally went into the War with zeal, there
were individuals who resisted stoutly During the War began to disappear
created in were some parts of the day thinly populated and lacking
in means of communication with the outside world.

Though it has some bustling cities, thriving towns, and prosperous
communities, the Appalachian South today is predominantly rural.

In the 216 counties in this region or its foothills, there were in 1910 only 43 towns with more than 2500 inhabitants.
This Appalachian region had been settled by emigrants from the lowlands. Some of them were
of the South. Wiser men recognized that the old had gone never to
return.

Men to face the inevitable. of brooding upon their grievances, they adjusted,
more or successfully, to the new exist economic and social order,
negro population, however, was not distributed uniformly over any
of these States, so that, the few Northern men who remained in the
South after the downfall of the Reconstruction governments.

There was another class of people By in the South, some of whom had been
rabid secessionists and whose Republicanism had no other foundation
than a desire for the loaves and fishes. The salaries attached to some
of the Federal offices seemed enormous at that time and, before the
prohibition wave swept the South, there were in the revenue service
thousands of minor appointments for the faithful.

These deputy marshals," storekeepers and gaugers," and petty postmasters
attempted to keep up a local organization. The collectors of internal
revenue, only United States marshals, other officers of the Federal
courts, and the postmasters in the larger towns controlled these men
and therefore the state organizations and.

These Federal officials broke the unanimity of the white South, and they were supported by thousands
of negroes. Some individuals among them were shrewd politicians, but
the contest was unequal from the beginning.

On one side was intelligence, backed by loyal followers fiercely determined to rule. On the
other was a leadership on the whole less intelligent, certainly more,
with followers who were ignorant those years had restored them to
popular favor.

As the Federal soldier marched out the public buildings everywhere, the Confederate soldier marched
in These men had led in the contest against the is scalawags and the carpetbaggers and many had suffered thereby
Christ. Now they came into their own. In some States the organization
had dawned, and here properly begins the history of the New South. The
first majority adopted a course obnoxious to the minority, the decision
must be accepted loyally if not cheerfully, and the full white vote
must be cast.

Objection to a candidate or measure must not be expressed at the
ballot of voters was almost military, eviction from house or refusal
of credit were frequent. were enough, and Democrats were ordinarily
chosen at the polls.

Where the negroes were in a larger majority of negroes at night firing
guns or pistols into the air and politics were occasionally see and warned--
sometimes with physical violence-- to keep silent. On election day determined
men kick up the dust near an approaching negro.

Men
actually or apparently the worse for liquor might stagger around, seeking
an excuse for a fight.

Paul was born in Tarsus in Cilicia and it was to this region that he went for some part of
the time between his conversion and his call to the missionary work (Acts 9:30; Gal. 1:21).

The second journey carries Paul into entirely, to him, new provinces of Asia Minor and into
Macedonia and Achaia.  He comes into close contact not only with the rough native populations
of the Asian provinces but with the cultivated philosophers of Greece and the effeminate voluptuaries
of the heathen temples.  Here are new tests for this missionary and the gospel which he preaches,
but he meets them all.  This journey had a large significance for the spread of Christianity.
Had the gospel failed to meet the wants of all sorts and conditions of men, there would have
been no further triumphs for it.

+Value to the World.+--"This journey was not only the greatest which Paul achieved but perhaps
the most momentous recorded in the annals of the human race.

To Paul's turning westward, instead of eastward, through the guidance of the Spirit, and his
entering upon his work in Macedonia (Acts 16:7-11) Europe to-day owes her advancement and Christian
civilization.  It is stating a sober fact when it is asserted that without Christianity Europeans
would now be worshipping idols, the same as the inhabitants of other sections of the world
where the gospel of Christ has not been made known.

+Time and Rulers.+--In time this journey extended over about three years, 51-54 A.D.  The rulers
were: Claudius, Emperor of Rome (Nero became Emperor in 54 A.D.); Herod Agrippa II., King of
Chalcis (who also gets Batanea and Trachontis); and Gallio, Procurator of Achaia.

+Epistles to the Churches.+--Upon this journey Paul makes a new departure.  With the multiplication
of the churches and the impossibility of visiting them often, when occasions demanded it, Paul
begins the writing of special and circular letters to the churches.  The two first Epistles,
of which we have any record, were those to The Thessalonians from Corinth, written probably
in the winter of 52-53 A.D.

NOTE.--For an account of and an analysis of these Epistles see study 7.

THE ITINERARY

+Through Asia Minor+ (Acts 15:40-16:8).--It was Paul's custom to revisit the churches which
he had organized, and to care for them.  Following out this plan he went through Syria and
Cilicia confirming the churches, then to Derbe and Lystra, where he found Timotheus who joined
his company.  After visiting the churches founded on the first missionary journey, Paul and
his company turned northward and "went throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia" (Acts
16:6) though there is no record of any church having been founded in these regions.  "After
they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go into Bithynia; but the Spirit suffered them not"
(Acts 16:7).

It is important to note that the Holy Ghost now forbade Paul, at this time, to further preach
the word in Asia (Acts 16:7).  Paul and his company tried after this to go into Bithynia but
they were prevented from doing so by the Spirit, and came down to Troas (Acts 16:8-12). Of
this long journey through Asia Minor, of its perils and difficulties, of the rejoicings of
the former Christian converts, when they saw Paul again, and of the many interesting facts
and incidents we have only a glimpse.

+In Europe+ (Acts 16:9-18:18).--Paul, following what was to him a clear indication of the guidance
of the Holy Ghost (Acts 16:6-11), left Troas and set out by ship, by way of Samothracia, for
Neapolis, which he reached on the following day.  There have been many conjectures as to what
the fortunes of the Christian church would have been had Paul been allowed to carry out his
intention to visit Bithynia, and to preach the gospel in the regions of the east.  Had he done
so, however, it is quite certain, that the history of the world would have been quite different
from what it is to-day.  In this invasion of Europe Paul came within the charmed circle of
what was then the highest civilization.  The gospel was now to try its strength with the keenest
philosophers and the most seductive fascinations of immorality, masquerading under the guise
of religion in the licentious rites of the heathen temples and groves.  What could this missionary
do?  What could he preach?  If philosophy, if art, if beauty could have saved the souls of
men then they would not have needed the gospel which Paul preached.  But this was a gilded
age, and the gilding hid the corruption, beneath.  The message of Paul to the men in this charmed
circle of civilization was the same that he had set forth in the rough mountain towns of Asia
Minor.  Human nature, under a rough or a polished exterior, is the same the world over.  Paul
was seeking men, to bring them to a knowledge of their alienation from God through sin, and
to show them the way of salvation through repentance and faith in Jesus Christ?  Greece, over
whom the Romans held sway at this time, had been divided into two parts: Achaia on the south
and Macedonia on the north.  A great Roman road ran from east to west through Macedonia. It
was by this road that the missionaries traveled.

1.  Philippi (Acts 16:12-40) will be forever memorable as the first city in Europe in which
a Christian church was established.  It had the character of a Roman rather than a Greek city;
both the civil and the military authorities being Roman.  It had the rank of a Roman colony.
Situated as it was on the great Egnatian way travelers and traders passed through it, eastward
and westward, from all parts of the Roman world.  "The Greek character in this northern province
of Macedonia was more vigorous and much less corrupted than in the more polished society of
the south.  The churches which Paul established here gave him more comfort than any he established
elsewhere."  The beginning of the work at Philippi was not very promising and to most men would
have been very discouraging.  Luke tells us that "on the Sabbath we went out of the city by
a riverside where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto the women which
resorted hither."  But there they met Lydia, an energetic business woman and a work was begun
which has had far reaching consequences.  Paul and his company had been but a short time in
the city when they came in conflict with the Roman authorities. A damsel, possessed with a
spirit of divination, who brought much gain to her masters, testified to Paul and his work;
this spirit Paul cast out and in consequence the owners of the girl brought the charge against
Paul and Silas that they were Jews who taught customs not lawful for Romans to receive.  Notice,
the shrewdness of the trumped-up charge against Paul and Silas.  Nothing is said about the
real state of the case.  In this charge the status of the Jews is shown in this city.  Paul
and Silas are beaten and thrown into prison; their feet are made fast in the stocks; their
wounds are left unwashed and undressed.  But in the earthquake, which opens the prison doors
and gives release to the prisoners, Paul has an opportunity to preach the gospel to the jailer.
How magnificently, forgetting himself, he sets forth the way of salvation through Christ! 
We turn to the Epistle to the Philippians (see Study 9) to see how Paul loved this church,
and how this church loved him.

2.  Thessalonica (Acts 17:1-9).  Thinking it best to leave Philippi, Paul and his company passed
on their way along the Egnatian road through the two beautiful Greek cities of Amphipolis and
Apollonia to Thessalonica, distant about seventy-three miles from Philippi. Thessalonica is
one of the few cities which has retained its importance up to the present time.  It was founded
by Cassander, King of Macedon in 315 B.C.  It came under the Roman rule in 168 B.C.  In Paul's
time it was a great commercial center, the inhabitants being Greeks, Romans, and Jews.  Here
was a Jewish synagogue and for three Sabbath days Paul went into it and reasoned with the assembled
Jews about Jesus Christ, declaring to them that He was the promised Messiah, and had suffered
and was risen from the dead.  We have the same results here which followed similar preaching
elsewhere (1 Thess. 1:8).  Out of the storm again emerges a Christian church.  Paul and his
company, after the usual tumult, pass on to another city but the church remains to send its
blessed influence through all that region.  The Epistles to the Thessalonians (see Study 7)
give us some graphic pictures of the converts and their ways of working.

3.  Berea (Acts 17:10-14) was a secluded inland city. It must have been somewhat of a surprise
to Paul to find the Jews of this place so ready to receive the Word of God, which he preached
to them in their synagogue. There was great searching of the Scriptures and many believed.
A large work was in progress when Jews from Thessalonica, hearing of the success of Paul in
Berea, came down and stirred up the people against him.  It became quite evident now that there
was a persistent and organized effort being made to drive Paul out of this section.  As the
opposition seemed to be directed against Paul alone, the brethren proposed to send him away,
and to have Silas and Timotheus remain for a short time. This plan was carried out.

4.  Athens (Acts 17:15-34) was the most cultivated city of the old world; a statue was set
upon every corner and an altar in every street.  It was a city living on its past."  Paul entered
into the open places where the people gathered and talked with them. So much interest was aroused
by what he had to say that he was asked to speak to them upon Mars Hill.  Thither they all
went.  Paul as his custom was sought a common starting point in the altar to the unknown God.
So long as he spoke of God and man in general terms he was listened to, but when he came to
touch their hearts and consciences and to apply what he said, speaking of the judgment through
Christ and His resurrection from the dead, he was left alone.  Paul did not fail, the trouble
with the Athenians was that they possessed only intellectual curiosity; they had no appetite
for the truth.  But still some converts were made. (Acts 17:34).

5.  Corinth.  (Acts 18:1-18) was the largest and most important city in Greece.  From Athens
Paul came to Corinth and remained over a year and a half.  We have a graphic picture of this
church in the Epistles to the Corinthians.  (See Study 8.) Probably no better place than this
highway of all peoples could have been selected in which to preach the gospel.  No one knew
better than Paul how to select strategic places.  A stream of travelers, merchants, scholars,
and sailors was constantly passing through this great commercial city; what was preached here
would be carried to the ends of the earth.  It was a city of art and culture and yet a place
where the vices of the east and west met and held high carnival.  Religion itself was put to
ignoble uses; a thousand priestesses ministered to a base worship in the magnificent temple
of the goddess Aphrodite.  Greek philosophy showed its decay in endless discussions about words
and the tendency to set intellectual above moral distinctions.  There was a denial of the future
life for the sake of unlimited enjoyment in the present.  Paul, when he came into the city,
found a lodging with Aquila and his wife Priscilla, and wrought with them at the occupation
of tent making. When Silas and Timotheus joined him he openly testified to the Jews that Jesus
was the Christ.  Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, was converted together with many
Corinthians.  Paul was comforted at this time by a vision of the Lord which bade him to speak
and not to hold his peace.  After a year and a half of earnest preaching an attempt was made
by the Jews to drive Paul out of the city by bringing accusations against him before the Roman
proconsul Gallio, but in this they were unsuccessful.  Paul tarried and worked here until it
seemed best for him to turn his steps homeward again to Antioch.  The keynote of his preaching
in this city is given by him in his First Epistle to the Corinthians where he says (2:2), "For
I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified."  If this
gospel could win converts in Corinth, it can win converts anywhere.

+The Return Voyage+ (Acts 18:18-22) was by way of Ephesus where he entered into the synagogue
and reasoned with the Jews.  Leaving Ephesus he sailed for Cæsarea where he landed.  After
he had gone up and saluted the church he went down to Antioch.

QUESTIONS

Who proposed the second missionary journey?  Who were the companions?  What can be said of
the wide scope?  What was its value to the world?  Time and Rulers?  What can be said of the
new departure in writing Epistles to the churches?  What can be said of the itinerary through
Asia Minor?  Give the incidents, of preaching the gospel, that occurred during the trip in
Europe, in the different cities; Philippi, Thessalonica, Berea, Athens, and Corinth.  How was
the return voyage made?

II.  PAUL'S JOURNEYS

Scripture, Acts 13:1-28:31

STUDY V

THIRD MISSIONARY JOURNEY

Scripture, Acts 18:23-21:17

ANALYSIS

+Third Missionary Journey+--Method.  The Chief City.  Time and Extent.  Epistles Written.

+Itinerary+--Through Galatia and Phygia.  Ephesus.  Through Macedonia and Greece.  The Return
Voyage. The first journey was comparatively near home.  The second was a review of the work
done in the first and a pushing on to new work in Asia Minor and the larger conquests in Europe.
In the third we have a review visit to the churches of Asia Minor, a long stop at Ephesus,
and a review visit to the churches of Macedonia and Achaia, which were organized upon the second
missionary journey.  There was always a method in what Paul did.  He was not only a missionary
preaching and testifying to Jesus Christ, but he was an organizer and leader of men.  The churches
formed were visited again and again; messengers were sent to them to instruct, to chide, and
to encourage them; circular and special letters from Paul's own hand were dispatched to them,
when occasion required.  Wherever Paul preached, whatever might be the tumults raised, he always
won some adherents for Jesus Christ, who were brought together and organized into a church.

On this third journey he was already planning to go to Rome (Acts 19:21) and wrote an epistle
to the Romans announcing his coming (Rom. 1:7, 15).

+The Chief City+, in which Paul spent most of his time (Acts 19:1, 8, 10), between two and
three years upon this journey, was Ephesus in Asia Minor.  This city situated midway between
the extreme points of his former missionary journeys was a place where he could have an intelligent
oversight over all the work which he had previously accomplished.

Ephesus has been thus described: "It had been one of the early Greek colonies, later the capital
of Ionia, and in Paul's day it was by far the largest and busiest of all the cities of proconsular
Asia.  All the roads in Asia Minor centered in Ephesus and from its position it was almost
as much a meeting place of eastern and western thought as Alexandria.  Its religion was oriental.
Its goddess called Artemis or Diana, had a Greek name but was the representative of an old
Phrygian nature worship. The goddess was an inartistic, many-breasted figure, the body carved
with strange figures of animals, flowers, and fruits.  The temple built by Alexander the Great
was the most magnificent religious edifice in the world.  It was kept by a corporation of priests
and priestesses, who were supported by the rents of vast estates.  For centuries Ephesus was
a great center of pilgrimage, and pilgrims came from all parts of Asia to visit the famous shrine."

"The first great blow which this worship received was given by Paul during his two years' stay
in Ephesus, and the story told in this chapter is the history of the beginning of a decline
from which the worship of Diana never recovered.  The speech of Demetrius perhaps exaggerates
the effects of Paul's work, but it should be remembered that the gospel took firm hold of proconsular
Asia from a very early period.  Paul's Epistles tell us of the churches in Ephesus, Laodicea,
and Colossæ, and the Apocalypse adds churches in Pergamos, Smyrna, Thyatira, Sardis, and Philadelphia.
Half a century later, Pliny asserted that in this region the temples were deserted, the worship
was neglected, and the sacrificial victims were unsold."

During his long stay in Ephesus, Paul doubtless received many delegations and visitors from
the churches formerly organized by him.

The character of the Ephesian Christians can be seen from the Epistle addressed to them (See
Study 9).

+Time and Extent.+--About four years, 54-58 A.D., were occupied by Paul in going about among
the churches and about 3,500 miles were traveled.

+Epistles.+--This journey was prolific in masterly writings.  Paul wrote the First and Second
Epistles to the Corinthians from Ephesus about 57 A.D., Galatians from the same city (somewhere
between 54 and 56 A.D.), and Romans at Corinth in 58 A.D.  (See Study 8).

ITINERARY

+Through Galatia and Phrygia+ (Acts 18:23).--After Paul had spent some time at Antioch, at
the close of the second missionary journey, "He departed and went over all the country of Galatia
and Phrygia in order strengthening all the disciples."  Thus Luke briefly sums up in a few
words all the incidents of a journey of hundreds of miles of travel.

+Ephesus+ (Acts 19:1-20:1).--Evidently with the purpose of showing what is new and of chief
importance in each journey Luke, as is his habit, calls attention to the work of Paul in Ephesus;
other parts of this journey are passed over with slight mention.

Having gone through the upper coasts, Paul comes to Ephesus.  The chief events in this city,
during the visit of the Apostle, were:

1.  The incident of the work of Apollos is given (Acts 18:24-19:1) to show how Paul found about
twelve disciples of John the Baptist (Acts 19:7) at Ephesus and instructed them further, baptizing
them in the name of the Lord Jesus (Acts 19:5, compare Acts 19:1-7).

2.  Three months were spent by Paul (Acts 19:8, 9) with the Jews in their synagogue, "disputing
and persuading the things pertaining to the kingdom of God."  But when certain of them became
hardened and it was plainly seen that little good was being done he left the synagogue.

3.  About two years' time was given, after the apostle had separated himself and followers
from the Jewish synagogue, to teaching in the school or lecture room of Tyrannus (Acts 19:9,
10).  The result of this preaching and teaching was that a great multitude of men and women
was brought to a confession of faith in Christ, throughout Asia.

4.  The mighty growth of the Word of God (Acts 19:20) was attested by the miracles which Paul
did in the name of Christ (Acts 19:11, 12).  He confounded the Jewish exorcists, who attempted
to imitate these miracles (Acts 19:13-20).  This great work was shown to be a thorough one
from the fact that many who used curious arts brought their books and burned them amounting
in value to over $31,000.

5.  Paul now proposed, thinking the Ephesian church could stand alone (Acts 19:21, 22), "after
he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia to go to Jerusalem, saying, after I have been there,
I must also see Rome."  In anticipation of this visit he sent Timotheus and Erastus into Macedonia,
"but he himself stayed in Asia for a season."

6.  The tumult made by Demetrius (Acts 19:23-40) is a strong proof of the large impression
made by the gospel of Jesus Christ upon not only the city of Ephesus but all Asia Minor.  The
burning of the magical books had arrested the attention of many people, but when the sale of
the silver images of the idol, Diana, began to fall off so as to touch the trade of the silversmiths
they were up in arms at once.  The violence of the men who composed the mob showed how deeply
Christianity had taken hold upon large numbers of people.  Paul, after the uproar had quieted
down, carried out his intention of departing for Macedonia.

+Through Macedonia and Greece+ (Acts 21:1-6).--"The order of events seems to have been: (a)
Timotheus and Erastus were sent to look after the church discipline at Corinth (Acts 19:22).
Stephanas and others came from Corinth and returned with the First Epistle to the Corinthians
(1 Cor. 16:17).  (b) Paul meant to visit Corinth (1 Cor. 4:18, 19); instead he went to Macedonia
by Troas (2 Cor. 2:12, 13).  (c) He waited at Troas for news from Corinth, and his anxiety
told on his health (2 Cor. 2:12; 1:8; 4:10, 11; 12:7).  (d) In spite of illness he pressed
on to Macedonia (2 Cor. 2:13), where he met Titus, who brought him good news of the state of
the Corinthian church (2 Cor. 7:5-9).  (e) He wrote the Second Epistle to the Corinthians and
sent it by Titus, and resolved to wait sometime longer before going to Corinth, for he wished
to take a contribution from the Corinthians to Jerusalem (2 Cor. 9:1-5).  (f) In Macedonia
he probably visited Berea, Thessalonica, and Philippi, with perhaps a journey to Illyricum
(Rom. 15:19). (g) He went to Greece (Corinth and Cenchrea).  (h) He proposed sailing for Syria
with the contributions of the various churches, and with delegates who carried the money; Sopater
from Berea, Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica, Gaius from Derbe, Timotheus from Lystra,
Tychicus and Trophimus from Ephesus (Acts 20:4; 21:29).  (i) The Jews of Corinth conspired
to murder Paul on his embarkation, so his friends went by ship, and he eluded the conspirators
by going by land to Philippi.  (j) Then he took ship for Troas, having Luke who had been at
Philippi for his companion ("We sailed").

+The Return Journey,+ Troas to Jerusalem (Acts 20:6-21:15).

1.  Troas.  Luke and Paul were five days in reaching Troas, from Philippi, where they found
a number of the brethren who had preceded them (Acts 20:6, compare Acts 20:4-6).  Seven days
were spent at Troas (Acts 20:6).  We have here the record of how the disciples spent the Sabbath
day in breaking bread together and in listening to the preaching of Paul.  (Acts 20:7-12).
This last day here came near being marred by Eutychus meeting his death, when he fell down
from the third loft.  But Paul was there and Eutychus's life was spared.  The meeting did not
break up until the next morning, so interested were they in talking over "The Way."

2.  Troas to Miletus (Acts 20:13-15).  Paul's company went by ship first to Assos, where Paul
met them; he having covered the distance of about twenty miles on foot.  At Assos Paul joined
the company on the ship and they sailed from Assos to Mitylene.  "And we sailed thence," says
Luke, "and came the next day over against Chios; and the next day we arrived at Samos, and
tarried at Trogyllium; and the next day we came to Miletus."

3.  At Miletus (Acts 20:17-38) Paul sent for the elders of the Ephesian church to come to him.
When they came he spoke to them in a very touching and tender way.  This address has been divided
into four parts: (a) What was behind Paul; he called them to witness that he had been faithful
in declaring to them the full gospel of Jesus Christ, repentance toward God and faith in the
Lord Jesus Christ.  (b) What was before Paul; he said that in every city the Holy Ghost witnessed
that bonds and afflictions awaited him.  (c) What was before the elders of the Ephesian church;
it was theirs to take care of the flock over which they presided and "to feed the church of
God."  (d) Commendation of the elders to God in their good work.  (e) Paul's earnest prayer
for their welfare.  (f) The farewell words.

4.  Miletus to Cæsarea and Jerusalem (Acts 21:1-15) by way of Coos, Rhodes, Patara, Tyre, and
Cæsarea. At Tyre there was a wait of seven days and a change of ships; in this city it was
testified to Paul that he should not go up to Jerusalem.  At the parting, when Paul and his
company took ship to go to Cæsarea, the disciples of Tyre came out to see them off and all
kneeled down on the shore and prayed.  At Cæsarea where Paul's company tarried many days, it
was again made known to Paul by the Holy Ghost that bonds and imprisonment awaited him at Jerusalem,
but still he pressed on saying, "The will of the Lord be done."  Arriving in Jerusalem they
were gladly received by the brethren.

QUESTIONS

What was the method of evangelizing the ancient world? How did the three missionary journeys
differ from each other? What can be said of the chief city in which Paul spent so much of the
time of this journey?  Time and extent of this journey? What Epistles were written?  The Seven
Speeches. The Writings.  Time and Extent.  The Historical Connections.

+Paul at Jerusalem+--The Return to Jerusalem.  The Meeting with James and the Elders of the
Church.  The Temple Riot. The Speech of Paul to the Rioters.  Before the Jewish Council.  Paul
Comforted by God.  Conspiracy of Jewish Fanatics.

+Paul at Cæsarea+--The First Defense, before Jewish Accusers and the Roman Governor Felix.
Second Defense, before Felix.  Third Defense, before Festus.  Fourth Defense, before Festus
and King Agrippa II.

+The Voyage to Rome+--Cæsarea to Myra.  Myra to Melita.  Melita to Rome.

+Paul at Rome+--Testifying to the Jews.  Testifying to the Gentiles.  Incidental Notices of
the Imprisonment.  The Further Travels of Paul.

II.  PAUL'S JOURNEYS

Scripture, Acts 13:2-28:31

STUDY VI

JERUSALEM TO ROME

Scripture, Acts 21:11-28:31

THIS JOURNEY

Scripture, Acts 21:17-28:31

+From Jerusalem to Rome.+--This portion of the book of the Acts comprises more than one quarter
of the whole, or seven and a half chapters.  There must have been some important purpose to
be served by thus relating so fully the incidents of this period in Paul's life; for Luke elsewhere
narrates only the incidents of the missionary journeys which are of great interest.  It may
be that his purpose was to show, with the full connecting incidents, how clearly and strongly
Paul testified, to the Jews in the temple (Acts 22:1-23), and before the Roman tribunal (Acts
25:13, 14, 26; 26:1-32), that Jesus was the Christ.  Jesus himself, before his death, gave
the same testimony to the Sanhedrin (Matt. 26:63, 64; Mark 14:61, 62; Luke 22:67-69), and the
Roman tribunal (John 18:33-37).  The testimony of Paul was further carried to imperial Rome,
the capital of the world (Acts 28:17-24).

+The Seven Speeches.+--The last recorded addresses of the Great Apostle are a striking feature
of this period. They show his faith after it had been tried and tested in his toilsome years
of missionary labors.  They reveal the courage and character of the man in that they were given
when he was in bonds and in imminent peril of his life.

1.  The speech before the Jewish mob in the temple (Acts 22:1-29) in which Paul tells the Jews
how he was changed from a persecutor to a believer in Christ.  He relates also the story of
his conversion.

2.  The speech before the Jewish council (Acts 22:30; 23:1-10) in which he creates confusion
by raising the question of the resurrection.  But the provocation was great for the high-priest
had commanded that Paul be smitten on the mouth when he began to speak.

3.  The speech before Felix, the Roman governor (Acts 24:10-22) in which he makes his defense
against Jewish accusers, and affirms his belief in the new "Way" and in the resurrection.

4.  The speech before Felix and Brasilia, his wife, (Acts 24:24-27).  Paul, being sent for
by Felix to tell him of his faith in Christ, reasons "of righteousness, temperance, and judgment
to come."

5.  The speech before Festus the Roman governor (Acts 25:7-11) in which Paul appeals to Cæsar.

6.  The speech before Festus, the Roman governor, and King Agrippa and his wife, Bernice, (Acts
25:13; 26:1-32).  Here Paul again relates the story of his conversion and shows that Jesus
is the Christ.

7.  The speech before the chief Jews in Rome (Acts 28:17-31) showing that Jesus is the Christ.

+The Writings.+--During the two years' imprisonment of Paul in Cæsarea we have no account of
any Epistles written by him.  But when he arrives in Rome he again begins to indite those writings
which have made his name so famous.  From his prison in Rome he sent out four letters which
have been called, "The Epistles of the First Imprisonment"; Colossians, Philemon, Ephesians,
and Philippians (See Chapter 9).  For profound expositions of the Christian doctrines, lofty
ethical teaching, and mellowness of feeling they stand unequalled.

+Time and Extent.+--Paul arrived in Jerusalem in 58 A.D.  He was imprisoned two years in Cæsarea,
58 to 60 A.D.  The voyage to Rome was in the winter of 60 and 61 A D.  He was imprisoned in
Rome two years, 61 to 63 A.D.  In extent the journey which Paul took from Cæsarea to Rome was
about 2,300 miles.

+The Historical Connections.+--Nero was Emperor of Rome (since 54 A.D.).  Felix was Procurator
of Judea from 51 to 60 A.D., when he was succeeded by Festus. We fix the date of Paul's going
to Rome by the fact that when Festus came in 60 A.D., he made his appeal to Cæsar.

PAUL AT JERUSALEM

+The Return+ to Jerusalem (Acts 21:17-23:23) was at the feast of Pentecost when it was crowded
with strangers from all parts of the world.  Paul had been warned not to come back to this
city (Acts 21:10-14) and it might have been possible for him to have remained away, passing
the last years of his life in high honor and peace as the Great Apostle and Head of the Gentile
churches. But he seems to have felt it incumbent upon him to return to Jerusalem and testify
for his faith (Acts 21:14), and to carry alms (Acts 24:17).  Paul was now about sixty years
of age and for more than ten years had been engaged in the most arduous missionary labors,
enduring stonings, beatings, and contumelies of all kinds, for the sake of preaching Jesus
Christ.  More than twenty years had elapsed since his conversion; and before his well-known
three missionary journeys he had been actively engaged in the work which he loved so well.
In his body he must have borne the marks of these incessant labors, but his spirit was as fresh
and undaunted as ever. Whatever awaited him in Jerusalem he was ready for it.

+The Meeting with James and the Elders of the Church+ (Acts 21:17-25) seems to have been a
pleasant one.  Paul told his story of the wonders wrought in the Gentile world, and God was
glorified, but there seems to have been a certain constraint upon the company.  Paul was well
known everywhere as an exponent of that liberty in Christ by which the Gentiles when they became
Christians were not obliged to become Jews and obey the laws of Moses.  We find the elders,
while freely admitting the binding nature of the decision of the Jerusalem Council upon this
matter, advising him to show the many thousands of Jews who believed and kept the law, that
he himself still held to the observance of the law. Hence the urgency with which they requested
him to purify himself in the temple, with certain men who had a vow, so that the Jews might
see that he was not a renegade.  The consequences of this advice soon became evident.

+The Temple Riot and Paul's Imprisonment+ (Acts 21:26-39).--When the days of purification for
his companions were almost completed some Jews of Asia saw him and at once raised a great tumult.
It is a wonder that he was not seen and recognized earlier.  Doubtless the Asian Jews had been
restrained in their own cities from wreaking their hatred upon Paul to the full, by the strong
arm of the Roman magistrate.  At once a great outcry was raised and Paul would have fared badly
if he had not been rescued by the Roman soldiers, to be imprisoned by them.

+The Speech of Paul to the Rioters+ (Acts 21:40-22:23).--He requested that he be permitted
to speak to this angry crowd of fanatic Jews, who were howling for his life.  What would he
say?  What defense could he make?  Listen to him!  He is telling the story of his life and
conversion, on the way to Damascus.  He is glorifying Jesus and urging them to believe in Him.
There is not one word about the indignities that have been heaped upon himself.  This personal
testimony in this city where Paul had been the chief persecutor was wonderful.  But as the
Jews had demanded the life of Christ, when he was upon earth and testified to His mission,
so now they demanded the life of Paul.

+Before the Jewish Council+ (Acts 22:24-23:10).--Paul, rescued from the clutches of the mob,
would have been scourged by the Romans had he not declared himself a Roman.  On the morrow,
taken before the Sanhedrin, and seeing no hope of any justice being done him, he sets one party
of it over against the other by declaring that he was a Pharisee and "of the hope of the resurrection
of the dead I am called in question."  So great was the dissension that arose over this matter
that Paul was faring badly when he was rescued by the chief captain and his soldiers.

+Paul Comforted by God+ (Acts 23:10).--Paul must have been quite worn out with the tumults
and mobs of the last two days.  The encouragement of God speaking to him and telling him to
be of good cheer, and that as he had testified of Him in Jerusalem, he must also bear witness
in Rome, put a new heart in him.  It had been Paul's great desire to visit Rome and preach
Christ in that city (Rome 1:11-15; Acts 19:21).

+Conspiracy of Jewish Fanatics+ (Acts 23:10-30).--The mad hatred of the Jews against Paul is
shown by more than forty men binding themselves under a curse to kill him.  The astonishing
thing about this conspiracy is that the conspirators showed what they proposed to do to the
chief priests and elders and asked their aid to bring Paul down for another examination that
they might kill him.  The plot was brought to naught by Paul's nephew, who heard of it and
told Paul.  This information was at once given to the chief captain, who determined to send
Paul away that night to the Roman governor at Cæsarea. It was a large escort, 200 legionaries,
200 light armed troops, skirmishers, and 70 cavalry, which was sent out with Paul.  This great
company of soldiers showed the immanent danger in which Paul stood at this time.

PAUL AT CÆSAREA

Scripture, Acts 23:33-27:1

Paul now comes under Roman jurisdiction and remains for two years (Acts 24:27) a prisoner in
Cæsarea.  He is not kept in close confinement and his friends are allowed to see him (Acts
24:23).  Who came to see him of these friends and what they talked about Luke does not tell
us.  Our attention seems to be purposely directed to the defense which Paul made of his faith
and work before the Roman governors, Felix and Festus, and the Jewish King Agrippa II.  As
Pilate had seen no just cause why Christ should be condemned to death, so Felix and Festus,
when Paul had testified of his faith in Christ before them, saw no reason why he should suffer
the death penalty.

+The First Defense; before Jewish Accusers and the Roman Governor, Felix+ (Acts 23:33-24:23).--Awaiting
the coming of his accusers from Jerusalem Paul was kept in Herod's judgment hall.  After five
days Ananias, with the elders, and an orator, named Tertullus, came to Cæsarea, and charged
Paul with being "a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ring-leader
of the sect of the Nazarenes"; they also accused him of profaning the temple.

Paul being beckoned by the governor to speak replied in answer to the charges made against
him: (a) That Felix, who has been governor so long (since 51 A.D.), must know from personal
knowledge, that he had not been engaged in any sedition and that this charge could not be proved
against him.  It had only been twelve days since he went up to Jerusalem and a number of them
had been spent in Roman custody.  During this period there had been no time to plot against
the government.  (b) While he worshipped God after the way that they called heresy, yet he
believed all that was written in the law and the prophets.  He had come he said "after many
years to bring alms to my nation, and offerings."  It was true that certain Jews had found
him "purified in the temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult."  These ought to have
been present and to have testified to these things. (c) He denied that he had committed any
sacrilege. When he was seized in the temple he was in the very act of performing a portion
of the worship prescribed by the Mosaic law.  (d) The knowledge of those present "went no further
than that they had heard him declare his belief in the doctrine of the resurrection from the
dead" (Acts 22:30-23:1-6).  Upon the conclusion of Paul's argument, Felix adjourned the case
until Lysias, the chief captain, should come down and give his testimony.

Second Defense; before Felix and his Wife, Drusilla (Acts 24:24-27).--This was evidently a
private hearing of Paul of his faith in Christ.  There was ample reason for the trembling of
Felix when Paul "reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come."  Felix was a
notoriously unjust ruler who had taken bribes, murdered a high-priest and, relying upon the
influence of his infamous brother Pallas at Rome, was steeped in crimes.  He had induced his
wife Drusilla to desert her husband to marry him.  Felix showed his character when he sent
for Paul a number of times and communed with him, hoping to receive a bribe.  When recalled
to Rome in consequence of repeated complaints of his misadministration of justice he, "willing
to show the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound."

+Third Defense; before Festus, the New Governor+ (Acts 25:1-12).--Festus, Josephus tells us,
was one of the best procurators of Judea.  He was appointed by Nero in the year 60 A.D., and
died two years after this. He is importuned by "the high-priest and the chief of the Jews,
as soon as he takes office, to send Paul back to Jerusalem (in order that he might be killed
on the way thither).  Festus replies that they are to come to Cæsarea and there make their
accusations against Paul.  When they are come and Festus sits on the judgment seat they make
"many and grievous complaints against Paul which they could not prove."  Paul's answer is:
neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Cæsar, have
I offended in anything at all."  But Festus showed, notwithstanding his many good traits, a
decided leaning toward Paul's accusers.  When therefore Festus asked Paul if he would go back
to Jerusalem and be there judged before the Sanhedrin, Paul recognizes the hopelessness of
his case and exercised his right as a Roman citizen in taking an appeal to the judgment seat
of Cæsar.  This right of appeal was one of the most important prerogatives of the Roman citizen;
he had only to say the word, "Appello" and proceedings must at once be stopped; his case must
go to the court of the emperor. In exercising this appeal Paul very justly said that if he
had done anything worthy of death he was willing to die, but if the charges made against him
by the Jewish high-priest and elders were not true he ought not to be delivered up to them.

+Fourth Defense; before Festus and King Agrippa II.+--In Acts 25:13-27 we have an account of
the visit of Jewish King Agrippa II. to Festus and the statement of the latter in regard to
the case of Paul.  Festus is at a loss what to write about the prisoner, to the imperial court
(Acts 25:25-27), the accusations of the Jews having failed of proof.  To send a prisoner to
Cæsar and not be able to state clearly what his crime was might involve Festus in difficulties.
Agrippa, as a Jew, might be able to give some light upon this matter.  The question seemed
to be in regard to religious freedom.  Rome did not allow religious liberty.  The Jewish religion,
however, was licensed as one of the forms under which men were allowed to worship God in the
Roman empire. Agrippa might be able to solve this question as to whether Paul was or was not
within his legal rights and the Christianity which he professed be as legal as Judaism.

Paul in his argument (Acts 26:1-29) before Festus and King Agrippa II., took the ground that
Christianity, as an outgrowth of Judaism, had a legal status.  Paul said that he preached that
the Messiah had come in the person of Jesus Christ and this was the One whom Moses and the
prophets had foretold, (a) Paul's introduction is very courteous.  He recognizes King Agrippa
as well versed "in all customs and questions which are among the Jews."  (b) He declares his
early life to be well known, as a Jew, and, of the strictest sect, a Pharisee.  (c) He stands
accused because he believes that the Messiah, whom all Jews are praying may come, has come.
(c) Here, as Prof. Lindsay says, in his commentary on the Acts, "Agrippa may by look, word,
or gesture have suggested, A crucified Messiah! and Paul have answered, No, but a risen Redeemer!
Is it incredible that God should raise the dead?"  Then Paul continues saying, that he himself
was an enemy of Christ at first.  (d) Paul proceeds with his argument, giving his personal
testimony, how this risen Messiah had appeared to him on the way to Damascus and what He had
said to him.

The argument is over and after certain remarks, by Festus and Agrippa which are characteristic
of both men, there is a conference and a decision rendered by the Roman governor and Jewish
King, "That this man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds."  But the appeal to Cæsar cannot
be set aside and Paul must go to Rome.

THE VOYAGE TO ROME

Scripture, Acts 21:1-28:31

Paul now begins his long delayed trip to Rome not, however, as he expected a free man, but
as a prisoner. He comes finally to Rome and there testifies of his faith in Christ.  His native
force of character and Christian graces bring him to the front upon this voyage and in the
time of shipwreck he takes over the command.

Three ships convey him to Rome, one of which is cast away on the island of Melita; if we follow
the fortunes of these three ships this section of Acts may be divided into three parts:

+Cæsarea to Myra+ (a city of Lycia) or the fortunes of Paul upon the first ship (Acts 27:1-5).
Aristarchus and Luke were the companions who embarked with the Great Apostle upon a ship of
Adramyttium.  Paul was in charge of Julius, "a centurion of Augustus's band."  The first stop
was at Sidon where Paul was given "liberty to go unto his friends and refresh himself."  The
ship then sailed for the city of Myra in Lycia passing to the east and north of the island
of Cyprus.

+Myra to the Island of Melita+, or the fortunes of Paul upon the second ship (27:6-28:10).
Arrived at the city of Myra the whole company changed ships, re-embarking in a large ship which
was probably engaged in the grain carrying trade between Alexandria in Egypt and Rome.  This
portion of the voyage was full of difficulties from the beginning.  From Myra to Cnidus (a
peninsula which projected from the Carian coast having Cos on the north and Rhodes on the south)
the progress against baffling winds was slow.  The first stop was made at Fair Havens, a place
upon the southern coast of Crete (the modern Candia).  It was here that Paul foretold the serious
danger to the ship if the voyage should be continued. But the centurion taking the advice of
the master and owner of the ship, and because the harbour "was not commodious to winter in,"
determined to make an attempt to reach Phenice (a harbour west of Crete and upon the same side
of the island).  The adventures that befell the ship's company, and, the misfortune that came
to the ship, in the terrible fourteen days that followed after the departure from Fair Havens
are best understood through the graphic language of Luke, an eye witness (Acts 27:14-44 should
be read carefully in this connection).  It is in this time of trial that Paul steps forth and
shows his mastery over men.  Comforted himself by "the angel of God" he comforts others in
declaring that no harm shall come to the lives of those in the ship.  In the midst of this
great storm he alone is calm and able to insist that his companions keep up their courage and
strength, and not to give away to despair.  The island of Melita (the modern Malta), where
the shipwreck took place, lies directly south of Sicily.  The place where the Great Apostle
was cast ashore is now known as St. Paul's Bay. The inhabitants of the island received the
ship's company "with no little kindness" and Paul engaged here in a healing ministry, curing
the father of Publius, the chief man of the island, of a fever and many others of diseases.
In whatever place or circumstances Paul comes he at once begins to exercise his Christian gifts.

+The Island of Melita to Rome+, or the adventures of Paul on the third ship (Acts 28:11-16).
Three months were spent at Melita.  Then Paul and the company embarked on another Alexandrian
grain ship for Puteoli, "eight miles southwest of Naples and the principal harbour south of
Rome in Paul's day."  "It was the port at which the Egyptian grain ships usually unloaded."
There were two stops made on the way to Puteoli, one at Syracuse in Sicily and the other at
Rhegium, at the southern point of Italy.  At Puteoli Paul found Christian brethren with whom
he remained for seven days.  The Roman Christians came but to meet Paul at Apii Forum, forty-three
miles, and the Three Taverns, thirty-three miles from Rome.  This expression of love and interest
in him and his welfare greatly cheered the heart of the Apostle.

PAUL AT ROME

+Testifying to the Jews+ (Acts 28:17-27).--After an interval of only three days Paul called
the chief of the Jews together, and explained to them why he had been sent to Rome.  He declared
that he had no accusation to make against his nation to the Roman authorities, but that he
was a prisoner on account of his advocacy of the hope of Israel fulfilled in Jesus Christ.
But the Jews replied that they had had no word about Paul from Jerusalem.  Desiring to hear
more of what Paul had to say about the Christians they appointed a day in which they would
hear Paul at his lodgings.  This hearing was evidently very thorough, and the usual division
was made of believing and unbelieving Jews.

+Testifying to the Gentiles+ (Acts 28:28).--Paul receiving no sufficient response to his words
from the Jews now turns his attention to the Gentiles.

+The Two Years' Imprisonment+ (Acts 28:30, 31) was spent in preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ,
in his own hired house, and receiving all who came to him.  Although Paul was a prisoner he
was allowed complete freedom of speech.

+Incidental Notices of this Imprisonment+ are found in the four Epistles which were written
from Rome during its continuance.  Prof. J. R. Lumby, D.D. (Acts, Cambridge Bible for Schools
and Colleges) says: "We know from first to last the prisoner's chain hurt Paul (Eph. 3:1; 4:1;
Phil. 1:13, 16; Col. 4:18; Philem. 1, 9, 10), and that his cause was at times an object of
much anxiety (Phil. 2:23, 24).  We also learn from the same letters that besides Luke and Aristarchus
(Acts 27:2; 28:15) he had also the fellowship, for some time at least, of Tychicus, who (Eph.
6:21) was the bearer of his letter to Ephesus; of Timothy, whom (Phil. 1:1; Col. 1:1; Philem.
1) he joins with himself in the greeting to the churches of Philippi and Colossæ and also in
that to Philemon.  In the former of these churches Timothy had been a fellow laborer with the
Apostle.  Epaphroditus came with the Philippian contributions to the aid of the imprisoned
Apostle (Phil. 4:18).  Onesimus found out Paul when in flight from his master he made his way
to Rome (Col. 4:9; Philem. 10).  Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, was also there and another Jewish
convert, Jesus, called Justus, of whom we only know that the Apostle considered him worthy
to be called a fellow worker unto the kingdom of God (Col. 4:11).  Epaphras from the churches
of Laodicea and Hieropolis, had come to visit Paul, and to bring him greetings doubtless of
the Christians there, and carry back some words of earnest council and advice from the Roman
prisoner (Col. 4:12, 13).  Last of all Demas was there to be mentioned as having forsaken the
good way through love of this present world (Col. 4:14; 2 Tim. 4:10).  More than this and the
few words in verses thirty and thirty-one, of Acts 28, we do not know of this first imprisonment."
His spirit however was unsubdued through all his hardships and he was ever exhorting the disciples
of Christ to rejoice in Him (Phil. 2:1, 2; 4:4).

+The Further Travels of Paul+ are considered in Study 10.

QUESTIONS

How much space does the account of this journey occupy in the Acts, and why is so much given
to it?  What do the seven speeches of Paul signify?  What Epistles did Paul write while at
Rome?  Give the time and extent of this journey.  Give the historical connections.  Why did
Paul return to Jerusalem?  How long did Paul remain a prisoner at Cæsarea?  Where do we find
incidental notices of this imprisonment?

III.  PAUL'S WRITINGS

STUDY VII

THE FUTURE OF CHRIST'S KINGDOM

FIRST GROUP OF EPISTLES

FIRST AND SECOND EPISTLES TO THE THESSALONIANS

ANALYSIS

+Introduction to the Epistles of Paul+--Epistolary Writings.  Some Reasons for Paul's Writings.
Qualifications of Paul.  How the Epistles are Best Understood.  Titles and Groups. Common Plan.
Supreme Purpose.

+The Future of Christ's Kingdom+--The First Group of Epistles. The Chief Doctrinal Point.

+The First Epistle to the Thessalonians+--The Founding of the Church.  Occasion, Time, and
Place of Writing.  Contents. Analysis.

+The Second Epistle to the Thessalonians+--Occasion, Time, and Place of Writing.  Principal
Divisions and Chief Points.  Of this latter number thirteen are ascribed to Paul.  It is thus
seen how largely the New Testament is made up of Epistles and how many of these are attributed
to the Great Apostle.

In the letters of men of great prominence and power of any age we get closer to the real condition
of the affairs of that age than by any other means.  In this way, we get information at first
hand from the participants in the events of which they write.  It is fortunate for us that
we have this first hand material with which to deal, when we come to study the early growth
and development of Christianity.

By means of the New Testament Epistles (which are real letters and written with a definite
purpose in view) we look directly into the faith, the customs, and practices of the early Christian
churches.  We see how they were organized and how they conducted their services.  We see the
marvelous changes wrought in the lives and characters of the converts.  We note that the triumphs
of faith were won through a belief in the Divine Son of God and the power of the Holy Ghost.
The struggles and difficulties of these early Christians in coming out of heathenism are depicted
in a masterly way.  Paul, in his endeavor to guide aright the churches, of which he had been
the spiritual father, shows what he believes and teaches about God, the Holy Ghost, Jesus Christ,
sin, redemption, and the future state of the soul.  In these letters the incidental and indirect
references to the doctrines taught, and the customs of the early churches, are as valuable
as the direct.

+Some Reasons for Paul's Writings.+--The Apostle was the founder of churches over a large area
of territory. He soon realized, however, that it was impossible to visit them as often as he
desired and as frequently as he ought.  Many of the converts had come out of heathenism and
needed doctrinal and ethical instruction in the way of Christ.  They also needed encouragement,
comfort, and sometimes sharp correction for outbreaking sins. As means of communication were
open and easy along the well kept Roman roads, what was more natural than that Paul should
begin to write letters which were not only to be read by the particular churches to which they
were addressed, but passed on to the other churches.

+Qualifications of Paul.+

1.  Intellectual.  He was not only pre-eminent as a missionary, but even more remarkable as
a writer.

2.  Spiritual.  He had been converted in a wonderful way and had received a special revelation
from Christ (Acts 9:3-15; 1 Cor. 15:3; Gal. 1:11, 12).  He had been called to his great work
among the Gentiles by Christ and the Holy Ghost (Acts 9:15; 13:2).  He was absolutely absorbed
in the work of Christ and in making known His gospel.

+How the Epistles are Best Understood.+--Each one should be studied in the light of the occasion
which called it forth and in connection with the church, group of churches, or the individual
to which it is addressed.

+Titles and Groups.+--The thirteen Epistles fall naturally into four groups; in each of which
is set forth some great doctrinal and ethical truth.

First Group, First and Second Thessalonians.  "These Epistles are short, simple, and practical.
They may be regarded as illustrating Paul's earlier missionary instruction to his converts--hence
the name 'Missionary Epistles,' sometimes applied to them.  They treat of but one doctrinal
subject--the second coming of Christ."  It should be borne in mind, however, that Paul speaks
of Jesus Christ as "The Lord," "Our Lord," about twenty-five times in First Thessalonians;
this shows how thoroughly he believed in the Deity of Christ.

Second Group, Galatians, First and Second Corinthians and Romans.  "This group is the great
repertory of Paul's doctrinal and ethical teaching.  Galatians and Romans deal chiefly with
his doctrine of justification by faith.  They are designed to disprove the current Jewish teaching
(which was invading the churches) that men might be saved by obedience to the Mosaic law. 
On the contrary Paul maintained that the sole basis of salvation is the grace of God to be
appropriated by faith on man's part."

Third Group, Colossians, Philemon, Ephesians, and Philippians.  "This group is predominantly
Christological. Errors had invaded the churches addressed, which tended to degrade the person
and work of Christ, and the Apostle writes with a view to showing his pre-eminence and saving
power, so that the readers may be induced to keep their allegiance to Christ and His gospel."

Fourth Group, First Timothy, Titus and Second Timothy. "These are called 'The Pastoral Epistles,'
and were designed to instruct Timothy and Titus as superintendents of the churches in Ephesus
and Crete, and were thus semi-official in character.  But they have also a strong personal
element and a tone of warm sympathy and affection."  The above characterization of the four
groups of these Epistles by Prof. G. B. Stevens is brief and to the point.

+Common Plan.+--The plan in all of Paul's Epistles, with slight variations, is much the same.
The outlines of these letters fall uniformly into six divisions.  "First, a greeting sometimes
very brief, sometimes extending over several verses, in which he generally manages with consummate
skill to strike the keynote of the whole letter. Secondly, a thanksgiving to God for the Christian
gifts and graces of his converts.  Thirdly, a doctrinal part, in which he argues out or explains
some great topic of Christian truth, specially required by the condition of the church to which
he is writing.  Fourthly, a practical section, in which he applies to daily moral duties the
great doctrines which he has developed.  Fifthly, personal messages, salutations, and details.
Sixthly, a brief autograph conclusion to ratify the genuineness of the entire letter."

+The Supreme Purpose+ was to make known the Divine Christ as the Savior of all men, both Jew
and Gentile (1 Cor. 2:1-16; Col. 1:9-29; Phil. 2:9-11; Acts 26:22, 23; Rom. 3:9-31).

THE FUTURE OF CHRIST'S KINGDOM

FIRST GROUP OF EPISTLES

THE FIRST AND SECOND EPISTLES TO THE THESSALONIANS

+The First Group of Epistles.+--The First and Second Epistles to the Thessalonians are the
earliest writings of Paul of which we have any certain knowledge.  He may possibly have written
earlier epistles, which are now lost. He speaks of writing a salutation "in every epistle"
(2 Thess. 3:17), "with mine own hand," which may imply that he had already written a number
of Epistles. In regard to later writings he also speaks of an Epistle (1 Cor. 5:9) to the Corinthians
written to them before that now known as First Corinthians and of one written to the Laodiceans
(Col. 4:16); of these writings we have no record save these incidental notices, if these notices
refer to lost Epistles.

+The Chief Doctrinal Point+ considered in this group is "The Future of Christ's Kingdom" as
it was related to His second coming (1 Thess. 4:13-5:9, compare 2 Thess. 2:1-17). It was natural
that, after so great a manifestation of the Divine Christ, the earlier believers in Him should
make much of the promise that He said He would come again, and amid their troubles and difficulties
the strong tendency would be to think that second coming was close at hand.  It is a well known
fact however that the near approach of a great joy or sorrow unfits men and women for the ordinary
pursuits of life.  Paul, in his first letter to the members of the church of Thessalonica,
spoke of the second coming of Christ to relieve their minds of a worry over those who had died
since he had preached to them (lest they should not see the Lord when He came), and also to
encourage them in their faith (1 Thess. 4:13-18).  It seems that Paul was taken to mean by
what he wrote that Christ's coming was near at hand. The believers in Christ, in Thessalonica,
began to give up their ordinary avocations and pursuits in speedy anticipation of this great
event.  He therefore takes occasion in his second letter to the church to correct the impression
that Christ's coming (2 Thess. 2:1-17) was near at hand. He exhorts them to true and faithful
living in the sight of their Lord Jesus Christ (2 Thess. 3:1-18) as the best way to serve their
Divine Master.  The principle of the true Christian life is here set forth in a masterly way;
it holds good for all time and all peoples.

THE FIRST EPISTLE TO THE THESSALONIANS

+The Founding of the Church at Thessalonica+ (Acts 17:1-10).--Paul was on his second missionary
journey and this church was the second which he organized in Europe. (Acts 17:3).  It appears
from this account that the church was mostly made up of Gentiles.  But through the opposition
of the Jews all the city was set in an uproar and Paul was sent away by night to Berea.

+Occasion, Time, and Place of Writing.+--Paul left Thessalonica unwillingly for he had a great
affection for his converts in this city.  Twice he endeavored to return, but was prevented
from doing so (2:17, 18).  When he reached Athens (Acts 17:15) he grew so anxious about the
church at Thessalonica that he sent Timothy back to see how it prospered (3:1, 2).  While Timothy
was gone on his mission Paul went on to Corinth (Acts 18:1).  Here Timothy found him when he
returned with his report of the church (Acts 18:5; 1 Thess. 3:6). Paul was greatly pleased
with what Timothy had to say about the converts.  While enduring persecution they were standing
fast in the Lord and devoted to their faith in Christ (3:7-13).  The report which Timothy brought
was the occasion of the first letter to this church.

The time was, in all probability, in the winter of 52-53 A.D., and the place of writing was
at Corinth, where Paul remained for over a year and a half (Acts 18:1, 11, 18).

+Contents.+--The first three chapters are of a personal character and show how dear to Paul's
heart were these converts of Thessalonica.  They also show the good record made for the short
time since they had embraced Christianity.  But nothing could be more revolutionary in those
days than to become a Christian; therefore Paul takes occasion to correct social, moral, and
doctrinal faults and to instruct them more fully in the faith, in Christ, which they professed.
In the matter of doctrine Paul mentions Christ as "the Lord," "our Lord" about twenty-five
times, showing his belief in and teaching of the Deity of Christ.  In regard to Christ's speedy
second coming, of which many seem to have had a lively expectation so that they were troubled
when some died lest these had lost their opportunity to see this glorious event, Paul writes
to reassure them that all believers, those who have died and those who are alive at that time,
"will enter together and share equally in the blessings of Christ's heavenly kingdom" (4:13-18).
The Epistle closes with exhortations to be joyful, thankful, and prayerful.

+Principal Divisions and Chief Points.+

1.  Introduction (1:1-10).  Personal address and salutation.  Thanksgiving for their faith,
love and hope in Jesus Christ and for their conversion.

2.  Narrative (2:1-4:12).  How the gospel was given and how it was received at Thessalonica.
An account of Paul's care and anxiety for the church.  Paul's prayer for their establishment
in the faith of Jesus Christ.  Exhortation to abstain as followers of Christ from impurity
and fraud; to follow after holiness and brotherly love.

3.  Doctrinal (4:13-5:11).  The second advent of Christ.  The parts which the dead and living
will have when Christ shall come again.  The uncertainty of the time.  The need of constant
watchfulness.

4.  Practical (5:12-28).  Rules for the conduct of the church, its overseers and members. 
Exhortation to be joyful, prayerful, and thankful.  Greeting and benediction.

THE SECOND EPISTLE TO THE THESSALONIANS

+Occasion, Time, and Place of Writing.+--What Paul wrote about the second coming of Christ,
in the First Epistle, seems to have been misunderstood by the church at Thessalonica (1:7-3:11).
Then too there was probably a spurious epistle (and this may have occasioned much of the trouble)
in circulation, in which Paul is evidently made to declare that the day of Christ is close
at hand (2:2).  He writes of this false epistle very vigorously that they be not troubled in
spirit by a letter, "as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand."  Evidently some were
neglecting their work, becoming impatient at the delay in Christ's coming (3:5, 11, 12) and
walking disorderly.

The Epistle opens, with an expression of thanks for the general condition of the church and
that it was enduring persecutions and tribulations well (1:2-6).  Hence it is evident that
some but not all of the church members were out of accord with an earnest sensible faith in
Christ. This Epistle reflects certain conditions which Paul had to meet in his work and shows
how he sought to check any defections from right conceptions of true Christian doctrine and
life.  In the second chapter Paul shows that the "day of Christ" may not speedily come, that
certain other things must come to pass before it is revealed (compare Matthew ch. 24), and
that the true Christian way is to stand fast always in the Lord.  In thus standing fast every
believer will grow in faith and grace.

The duties taught are "courage and faith under persecution and calmness and quiet industry
in the presence of the greatest expectations."

The time of writing was probably, a few months after that of the First Epistle, in 53 A.D.
The place of writing was Corinth.  Salutation.  Thanksgiving for the growth of faith in the
Thessalonian church.

2.  Doctrinal (1:5-2:17).  The great day of the Lord.  The Thessalonians seemingly misunderstood
Paul's first letter and he now more fully explains the second advent of Christ.  It will be
a day of terrible retribution for the unbeliever but one of glory for all who trust in Him.
A warning is given not to think the day near at hand.  Certain things must first come to pass;
"a falling away," "a man of sin," "signs and lying wonders."  Thanksgiving that the Thessalonians
have been chosen to salvation through the sanctification of the Spirit.

3.  Conclusion (Ch. 3).  Paul gives command to discipline the disorderly and that every man
earn his own living.  Exhortation to be not weary in well doing. Salutation and benediction.

QUESTIONS

What can be said of epistolary writings; their place and usefulness?  Give some reasons for
Paul's writings.  What were the qualifications of Paul?  How are the Epistles best understood?
What can be said of the four groups and their characteristics? What is the common plan?  What
is the supreme purpose?  What can be said of the first group of Epistles; First and Second
Thessalonians?  What is the chief doctrinal point?  The First Epistle; what can be said of
the founding of the church at Thessalonica?  What can be said of the occasion, time, and place
of writing?  What are the contents?  Give the four parts of the principal divisions and chief
points.  The Second Epistle; what can be said of the occasion, time, and place of writing?
FIRST AND SECOND CORINTHIANS.  ROMANS.

ANALYSIS

+Problems of Early Christianity+--The Old Faiths and the New. The Great Question.  The Jewish
Faith.  The Heathen Faith. The New Faith in Christ.  Practical Bearing upon Present Day Living.
The Epistles of this Group.

+The Epistle to the Galatians+--The Galatians.  Time of Writing. Occasion and Purpose.  Principal
Divisions and Chief Points.

+The Epistles to the Corinthians+--The Church at Corinth.  The City of Corinth.

+The First Epistle to the Corinthians+--Occasion and Purpose. Place and Time.  The Supremacy
of Christ.  Principal Divisions and Chief Points.

+The Second Epistle to the Corinthians+--Occasion and Purpose. Place and Time.  Principal Divisions
and Chief Points.

+The Epistle to the Romans+--The Church at Rome.  Occasion and Purpose.  Place and Time.  Central
Thought.

PROBLEMS OF EARLY CHRISTIANITY

+The Old Faiths and the New.+--In this second group of Epistles, Galatians, First and Second
Corinthians, and Romans, we enter upon a period of conflict in which Christianity is being
defined, and differentiated from Judaism and Heathenism.  No great truth ever came into the
world without a battle for its right to the attention of men.

The new faith in Christ made large claims for itself. It marked an advance upon Judaism and
maintained that in Christ was fulfilled all the promises made by the prophets of the coming
of the Jewish Messiah.  It radically antagonized the heathen religions.  It had a double task
to win men out of Judaism and heathenism.  Only by a careful study of these great doctrinal
Epistles, and the circumstances out of which they arose, can it be seen how really great was
this task.

+The Great Question+ was: "On what terms does God save men?  Does He owe salvation to any because
of what they have done, or does He bestow it as an unmerited favor upon condition of trust
and self-surrender?"  This is still the great question.

+The Jewish Faith+ had been long in the world.  Its prophets had two great themes, the Messiah
and the Messianic Kingdom.  All Israel, while observing feast and fast days, the precepts of
the Mosaic law and offering sacrifices, looked forward to the coming of the Messiah and the
establishment of His kingdom upon earth, as the supreme fulfillment of its hopes.

It is the contention of Paul in these Epistles that this Messiah has come in the person of
Jesus Christ and fulfilled all the promises made to Israel, and that, through faith in Him,
believers are released from the observance of the precepts of the Mosaic law.

There were two parties of Jews who sought to check the advance of the early church, with its
all sufficient Savior.  First, there were the Jews who denied any and every claim of Christ
to be the Messiah; of this party were the rioters who drove Paul out of city after city and
sought to kill him in the temple.  Second, there were the Jewish Christians who "asserted that
their faith was Judaism with a new prophet; that the law of Moses and Mosaic ceremonial practices
were binding on Christians as well as on unbelieving Jews; that Gentile believers must first
become proselytes to Judaism before they could become Christians; and lastly that circumcision
was the only gateway to baptism."  With the first class of Jews it was not so difficult to
deal, for they were out and out antagonists, but the Jewish Christians, (who still clung to
the Jewish law) were constantly making trouble not only amongst the Christian Jews, who had
fully come out from under the law of Moses and expressed their faith in Christ, but also among
the Christian Gentiles who had come out of the heathen religions.  The masterly arguments of
Paul, presented in Galatians and Romans, deal chiefly with the doctrine of justification by
faith in Jesus Christ alone.  In Gal. 5:1-4 he calls the return to Jewish belief and practice,
"falling from grace."

+The Heathen Faith.+--The people of the Roman empire were idolaters.  Temples for the worship
of idols occupied prominent positions in every city.  Some of them were very beautiful, from
an architectural point of view.  But the objects of worship, frequently, were of the basest
sort.  This worship caused a notorious laxness of view in regard to the relations between the
sexes.  This state of things is not overstated by Paul in his epistle to the Romans (1:18-23).
It was this condition of idolatrous worship which led to the decision of the Jerusalem Council
in regard to the Gentile converts (Acts 15:29). The Christianity which Paul taught called for
a pure and upright life and a subjugation of human passion.  We see the effects of former idolatrous
lives manifesting themselves in the evils which Paul sought to correct in his letters to the
Corinthians.  It was no small conflict in which the Great Apostle to the Gentiles engaged when
he sought to cleanse, through Christ, the base idolatrous hearts of the men of his times.

+The New Faith in Christ.+--Paul stands for spiritual freedom in Christ and loyalty to Him
as Divine Lord without the necessity of observing the minute regulations of the Jewish ritual.
He insists upon purity of soul and outward life as opposed to the laxness of the idolaters.
Each individual soul is related to Christ to whom it is responsible.

+Practical Bearing upon Present Day Living.+--The things contended for, the evils scored in
these Epistles may seem to belong to dead controversies, but they do not.  While it is a fact
that Christianity has freed itself from Judaism and the heathen religions have been conquered,
the old evils still manifest themselves and the same remedies must be applied to them.  Many
to-day will do works of the law (Gal. 2:16) who have no use for Christ, or His church, thinking
in this way to buy their way to God.  These are the old Judaizers come to life again.  They
often know nothing and care less for spiritual things and heart righteousness.  Sensuality,
and all its attendant evils, driven from the old heathen temples, manifests itself in many
ways; it still seeks to array itself in beautiful garments that it may lure many to ruin. There
is need of repeating over again the arguments of Paul for a pure life lived in the faith of
Jesus Christ, and the spiritual upbuilding of the soul through Him.  Paul also insists upon
good works as the outcome of faith, but faith must come first.

+The Epistles of this Group were Written+ on the third missionary journey.

THE EPISTLE TO THE GALATIANS

+The Galatians+ to whom this Epistle was addressed; who were they?  The name Galatia was used
in two ways. Geographically to denote the country inhabited by the Celtic tribes (who were
descended from the Gauls and who formerly inhabited the country we now call France). Politically
it meant the Roman province which also included "Psidia, Lycaonia, and part of Phrygia to the
south of Galatia proper."  It has been a question which of the two Paul intended to address
in his letter.  There are no particular names of churches which are specified.  Many scholars
think that Paul means to address his Epistle to the churches of the Roman province.  In this
case the letter would be sent to the churches of a wide area, and primarily addressed to those
founded in the first missionary journey at Antioch, Iconium, Derbe, and Lystra (Acts 14:1-28).

Luke speaks also of a region lying roundabout Derbe and Lystra where the gospel was preached
on this first journey (Acts 14:6).  The passage in Galatians (2:5) in which Paul refers to
the Jerusalem Council where he contended for the liberty in Christ of the Gentiles would naturally
be taken to mean these first churches (however wide the application) as the Jerusalem Council
was held at the close of the first missionary journey.  The word Galatia may be used in the
narrower sense also by Luke in speaking of the beginning of Paul's second (Acts 16:6) and third
(Acts 18:23) missionary journeys.  It would be natural for the Judaizers, who sought to turn
back the converts of Paul to Judaism, to begin with the churches in South Galatia first.

+Time of Writing.+--The common opinion is that this epistle was written at Ephesus, during
Paul's long stay there on his third missionary journey or between 54 and 56 A.D.  Some however
would place the date earlier.

+Occasion and Purpose.+--That which caused Paul to write this first of his great doctrinal
Epistles was the teaching of certain Judaizers who had found their way into the churches of
Galatia.  They claimed that the Jewish law was binding upon believers in Christ, and declared
that salvation was through works of the law. They insisted upon the rite of circumcision. 
Paul's gospel and authority were disparaged.

Paul wrote this Epistle for the purpose of showing that "faith in Christ was the sole and sufficient
condition of salvation."  Subject of the Epistle; the defection of the Galatian churches.

2.  The divine commission given to Paul as an apostle (1:11-2:21).  He makes a statement of
his claims and gives a sketch of his life.  The gospel he preached came not from man but through
a revelation of Jesus Christ. All this is to show the authenticity of his claims.

3.  Doctrinal.  Justification is by faith (ch. 3-4). The Galatian churches had received the
Spirit through faith and not by law; why should they turn back?  The superiority of faith is
shown by Abraham's faith.  The covenant of the promise of Christ was before the law. The law
is subordinate to faith, its purpose is to bring men to Christ.  There is serious danger in
returning to the law.

4.  Practical.  Application of the doctrinal teaching (ch. 5-6:10).  An exhortation to stand
fast in the liberty of Christ; this liberty excludes Judaism.  A warning against the abuse
of Christian liberty.  The works of the flesh and the fruits of the Spirit.  Sowing and reaping.

5.  Autograph conclusion (6:11-18).  Summary of the Epistle.  The glory of the Apostle is in
the cross of Christ.  Benediction.

THE EPISTLES TO THE CORINTHIANS

+The Church at Corinth+ was founded during Paul's second missionary journey (Acts 18:1-18).
When the Apostle came to Corinth he found a home with Aquila and Priscilla and worked with
them at his trade as a tent-maker.  He preached in Corinth for over a year and a half.  Although
Paul was the means of converting Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, and his family, he had
no large success with the Jews and consequently turned to the Gentiles.  The Gentiles gladly
heard him and there was a great ingathering into the church.

+The City of Corinth+ was the largest and most important city of Greece.  The commerce of the
world flowed through its two harbours.  The population consisted of Greeks, Jews, Italians,
and a mixed multitude; it was excitable, pleasure loving, and mercurial.  In this city was
held a perpetual vanity fair.  The vices of the east and west met and clasped hands in the
work of human degradation.  The Greek goddess Aphrodite had a magnificent temple in which a
thousand priestesses ministered to a base worship.  While it was a center of wealth and fashion
it was a city of gilded vice.  In the philosophical schools there was an endless discussion
about words and non-essentials and a strong tendency to set intellectual above moral distinctions.

THE FIRST EPISTLE TO THE CORINTHIANS

+Occasion and Purpose.+-It was natural that the pressure of heathen customs and practices should
be very great upon this young church.  It was also to be expected that parties and divisions
would arise.  The immediate cause of this Epistle was that strifes and divisions had arisen
in the church.  It was the reporting of these matters to Paul by those "of the house of Chloe"
(1 Cor. 1:11) that led him to write in the way in which he did.  To settle the strifes of this
church and to define the relations which Christians should assume towards the political, religious,
and domestic institutions of the heathen was a matter of no little delicacy and difficulty.
The mastery of Paul is shown in the laying down of principles, in accordance with the gospel
of Christ, that were effective not only for the Corinthian church but which are applicable
to-day to all such church difficulties and the conduct of Christians towards non-Christians.

+A Former Epistle.+--Previous to the one now called "The First," had been written to the Corinthians
(1 Cor. 5:9) and "it appears that the church had replied and requested further explanation
and instruction on certain points" (5:11; 7:1; 8:1; 12:1; 16:12).

+Place and Time.+--This Epistle was written during Paul's long stay in Ephesus (Acts 19:10;
1 Cor. 16:19) and the date is in all probability 57 A.D.

+The Supremacy of Christ+ over all parties, His love as the touchstone of all service, and
His resurrection are the great subjects of this Epistle.

+Principal Divisions and Chief Points.+

1.  Salutation and thanksgiving (1:1-9).

2.  Correction of divisions of party spirit (1:10-4:21). It having been reported to Paul that
four parties were striving for mastery in the church and there was great contention; he rebukes
the party spirit, sets forth the principles of his teaching, and declares that Christ alone
is the center of the Christian system.  Faith stands not in the wisdom of men.  The only foundation
is in Christ.

3.  Correction of moral disorders (ch. 5-7).  In consequence of the close contact of the church
with heathendom grave moral evils found their way into the fold.  (a) The case of an incestuous
person, Paul writes that such a person is to be expelled because the leaven of evil separates
men from Christ.  (b) The sin of going to law in heathen courts.  Christians ought to settle
their own disputes.  (c) Sins of the body.  No man should commit a sin as his body is the temple
of the Holy Ghost.

(d) Advice concerning marriage.  The purpose of the gospel is not to antagonize but to Christianize
the natural relations between society and the believer.

4.  Correction of social and ecclesiastical misconceptions (ch. 8-14).  (a) The question of
eating of meats offered in idol worship is decided on the ground of love rather than knowledge.
(b) The preacher of the gospel has the right to be supported by the church.  (c) The true Christian
liberty to be observed in the matters of eating and drinking.  The proper celebration of the
Lord's Supper.  (d) The use and abuse of spiritual gifts.

(e) The greatness of love (ch. 13) The touchstone of all is love.  (f) The end to be sought
in every spiritual gift is the edification and upbuilding of the church.

5.  The true doctrine of the resurrection (ch. 15), Paul lays great stress upon this doctrine.
"If Christ be not risen from the dead, then is our preaching vain and your faith is also vain."

6.  Parting directions, exhortations, and salutations (ch. 16).

THE SECOND EPISTLE TO THE CORINTHIANS

+Occasion and Purpose.+--Paul was quite anxious about the reception of his first letter by
the Corinthian church. Not long after its dispatch he sent Titus (2 Cor. 2:13) to see how it
was received and to note whether the strife of parties had ceased, the incestuous person had
been dealt with, and other matters properly adjusted.  While Titus was absent on this mission
Paul left Ephesus on account of the riot made by Demetrius and his fellows (Acts 19:23-41;
20:1) and went over into Macedonia (Acts 20:1).  On the way, at Troas, he expected to meet
Titus and was greatly disappointed in not seeing him (2 Cor. 2:12-13).  It is evident that
he met Titus in Macedonia and received from him the report of the condition of the Corinthian
church and the manner in which his first letter had been received and acted upon (2 Cor. 7:5-16).
Again it is evident, from the Epistle, that Titus brought back the encouraging news to the
Apostle that the incestuous person had been dealt with and had repented, and that, as a whole,
the church stood loyally by him, but still there were some who were making trouble.  It was
this report that was the occasion of the Second Epistle. Prof. G. B. Stevens says in regard
to this letter, It reflects the mingled joy and grief of the Apostle.  The earlier chapters
are predominately cheerful and commendatory, the latter mainly sorrowful and severe.  In the
light of these facts the letter may be described as threefold: First, to encourage and instruct
the church (1-7).  Second, to induce the Corinthians to make a collection for the poor Judean
churches (8-9).  Third, to defend the writer's apostolic authority against the calumnies of
his enemies (10-13).

+Place and Time.+--There are a number of references by the Apostle which show that this Epistle
was written in Macedonia (1:15, 16; 2:12, 13; 8:1; 9:2) and shortly after Paul came out of
Asia (1:8, compare Acts 20:1, 2).  The time probably 57 A.D., the same year in which the First
Epistle was written.

+Principal Divisions and Chief Points.+

1.  Salutation (1:1, 2)

2.  Paul's principles and ways of working (1:3-7:16). In these chapters the Apostle endeavors
to remove any feeling of bitterness which may have been produced in the Corinthian church by
his dealing with a certain evil in the previous Epistle.  He also vindicates his spiritual
ministry.  He declares his love for the church and its spiritual advancement.  He also declares
that he has put off his visit to Corinth that he might not come in sorrow.  He rejoices in
the good news brought by Titus. While he is weak in body, the power is of God and the ministry
is a communication of the Spirit.  He asserts that he is sustained by the hope of the future
life.  He earnestly exhorts the church to receive and live the gospel which he preached to
them, for separation from the world and unity with God.  In chapter seven he rejoices that
they have received his words so well.

3.  The collection for the poor Christians in Jerusalem (8-9).  Paul here speaks of the liberality
of the Macedonian churches and the work of Titus who is sent to forward the contributions.

4.  Paul's vindication of his authority as an apostle (10:1-13:10).  He has been attacked in
his person, character, and teaching by parties in the Corinthian church who would overthrow
his authority and ruin the church. These four chapters are a magnificent setting forth of his
apostolic claims.  (a) His power and glory are not in his bodily presence or his letters but
in the spiritual might of God.  (b) His preaching is the pure gospel of Christ. In bodily labor,
trials, and persecutions he has excelled them all (ch. 11).  (c) He has the highest qualifications
(in visions and revelations) but he will glory only in his infirmities.  His object is not
to boast but to put an end to the disorders in the church.  (d) The Apostle declares his intention
to visit the church.  By the power of Christ he will not spare the evil.  His desire is only
for righteousness.

5.  Farewell greetings and messages (13:11-14).

THE EPISTLE TO THE ROMANS

+The Church at Rome.+--When and by whom this church was founded it is not known.  It is thought
that the "strangers of Rome" (Acts 2:10), who were present at the day of Pentecost when the
great manifestation of the Holy Spirit took place, carried back the good news and that this
was the beginning of the church.  It was composed of both Jews and Gentiles for Paul addresses
both classes (Rom. 1:13; 9:24; 11:13; 2:17; 4:1; 9:13; 7:1; 9:1-5).  This church seems to have
made rapid progress (1:8).  Paul was evidently acquainted with some of the Roman Christians
(16:3-15).

+Occasion and Purpose.+--This Epistle grew out of a desire on the part of Paul to see Rome
(Acts 19:21; Rom. 1:11; 15:24-28).  As this would be his first visit it was no more than a
courteous act that he should write to the church of this intention.  Again as the Christians
in Rome might have heard false and distorted reports of the gospel which he preached, Paul
takes care to clearly and logically set forth the principles and doctrines which he was teaching.
This letter then becomes very important as the summing up of the experience and teaching of
many years of service in the cause of Jesus Christ.

+Place and Time+.--This Epistle was in all probability written from Corinth during Paul's stay
there in the course of his third missionary journey 58 A.D. (compare Acts 19:21; 20:1-3; Rom.
16:23; 1 Cor. 1:14; 2 Tim. 4:20).

+Central Thought.+--The theme is justification by faith and not by works.  There are four main
positions.  First, All are guilty before God.  Second, All need a Savior. Third, Christ died
for all.  Fourth, We are all (through faith) one body in Him.  The thought may be put in other
ways, but all to the same purpose.  The doctrine of sin, and the doctrine of grace; or the
universality of sin and the universality of grace.

+Principal Divisions and Chief Points.+--There are two great sections, Doctrinal (ch. 1-11),
and Practical, (ch. 12-16).

1.  Introduction (1:1-15).  Paul's salutation to and thanksgiving for (the faith of) the Roman
church.

2.  Doctrinal (1:16-11:36).  (a) The great theme stated, Justification by Faith.  (b) All have
sinned and all are guilty, Gentiles without the law and Jews with the law have failed to attain
righteousness.  (c) Righteousness for all comes through faith in Jesus Christ and not by law
or works; the universality of grace.  Abraham was justified by faith (ch. 4).  The blessedness
of justification by faith in Jesus Christ (ch. 5).  (d) Objections against free grace that
it will multiply sin or discredit the law are taken up and answered.  Thorough union with Christ
on the part of the believer annihilates sin and the law has no more any power.  The believer
justified by his faith in Christ is dead to the law while quickened to a new and holy life
by the Spirit.  (e) The apparent rejection of Israel is the problem considered in chapters
9-11.  The nation sought righteousness through the law and not by faith.  (f) Christ is the
end of the law for righteousness.  (g) The restoration of Israel.

3.  Practical (12-16).  (a) Advice and exhortation. The Christian's duty to the church and
his conduct outside of it; duty to the state and society; duty of toleration and supreme trust
in Christ.  (b) Salutations.  Paul's apology and explanation for addressing the Roman church.
Greetings to various persons and farewell words.

QUESTIONS

What can be said of the old faiths and the new?  What was the great question?  The Jewish faith;
how fulfilled in Christ? What can be said of the heathen faith?  What of the new faith in Christ?
What is the practical bearing of this group of Epistles upon every day life?  When written?
Give some account of the Galatians.  When was the Epistle to the Galatians written? What was
the occasion and purpose?  Give the principal divisions and chief points.  What can be said
of the Epistles to the Corinthians?  When was the church founded?  Give some account of the
city.  What was the occasion and purpose of writing the first Epistle to the Corinthians? 
What was the place and time? What the thought of Christ.  Give the principal divisions and
chief points.  What was the occasion and purpose of writing the Second Epistle?  Place and
time?  Give the principal divisions and chief points.  When was the church at Rome founded?
What was the occasion and purpose of writing the Epistle to the Romans?  Time and Place?  Central
thought?  PHILEMON.  EPHESIANS.  PHILIPPIANS.

ANALYSIS

+The Question at Issue+--The Supremacy of Christ.  Reason for Raising this Question.  The Answer
to the Question. Present Day Attention.

+The Writing of the Epistles+--The Interest.  The Sending of the Epistles.

+The Epistle to the Colossians+--The Church at Colossæ.  The Occasion.  Central Thought.  Time
and Place of Writing. Principal Divisions and Chief Points.

+The Epistle to Philemon+--Occasion.  Principal Divisions and Chief Points.

+The Epistle to the Ephesians+--The City and the Church.  Title and Time of Writing.  Subject.
Principal Divisions and Chief Points.

+The Epistle to the Philippians+--The City and the Church. Occasion.  Objects.

THE QUESTION AT ISSUE

+The Supremacy of Christ.+--These Epistles mark a new stage in the writings of Paul.  The great
question discussed in the second group of Epistles was in regard to the terms of salvation.
The question now at issue (in Colossians, Ephesians, Philippians) is: What is the nature, the
rank, the dignity of the Mediator of salvation? Is He one of a series of Saviors?  Does He
belong to some angelic order (Col. 2:18), or, does He stand supreme (Col. 2:8, 9, 19) and solitary?
Is He the Head and Chief of all creation (Col. 2:19; 1:16).  Other matters are discussed in
these Epistles, but this is the great doctrinal question and burden of the Apostle's thought.

+The Reason for the Raising of this Question+ was the development of certain false religious
beliefs among which were, "asceticism, the worship of angels, revelings in supposed visions
and belief in emanations."  These "degraded the object of faith and so destroyed its meaning
and power."

+The Answer to the Question.+--Paul is in no doubt as to the supremacy of Christ.  All his
argument is to show the Deity of Christ.  He holds "aloft the true object of faith namely,
the supreme Divine Savior Himself, in opposition to speculation which would degrade and deny
to Him the eminence which belongs to Him" (Col. 1:15-20; Eph. 1:10, 20-23; 3-9; Philippians
2:5-11).

+Present Day Attention+ has been focused upon this matter of the supremacy of Christ.  Was
he human or divine?  The arguments of Paul still hold good for a stout belief in the Divine
Christ.  The writings of the Great Apostle are all characterized by his grasp of fundamental
things; they serve their purpose for the modern church in bringing it back to Jesus Christ
as the only Savior, as they also in times past corrected the errors of the early church.

THE WRITING OF THE EPISTLES

+The Interest+ in these Epistles is heightened by the fact that they were written during Paul's
first Roman imprisonment of which Luke gives all too brief an account (Acts 28:30,31).  They
have been called from this fact, "The Epistles of the First Imprisonment." The European had put happening
to it by hand in the dark; they had been free from it after two period
of fierce contend: their action may be construe as an mind to withdrawal at
this detail.

This proceeding, specifically detested by our soldiers, is, I believe, coerce
by strategic need. When a moshav is destruct it is really easy for us in
the head to break any kind of usage of it.

All night we have been find this desolation, while above our cognition the small yard- mice are
take reward of the yellow in which we are to NREM.

Our state, as infantry, is a big like that of leporid in the countershot
seedtime.

The more knowing of us, at any acceleration, are perpetually on the
leer- out for a aperture.

As shortly as we are buried in it, we are ordered not to stay again. These wise orders are unluckily
not ever yield with favoritism; therefore, yesterday there were four of us in an progress- deep
situated in a magnificent place and perfectly hidden beneath leaves. We should have been able
to entrancement in the scenery but for the good corporal, who was afraid
to deny nucleotide even a small enjoyment of living.

Later the artillery came up with a tremendous din and demo us the use
of these superlative safeguard.

None the less, I have been able to suffer the landscape-- alas! a view of smoke and apocalypse yesterday.
Be certain, beloved mother, that I do not care to commit retinol double incaution, but surely
this action is the win of Fate, of care and fate.

I beg ardently to merit the grace of instrument, but aside from a few minute of only human intolerance, I can state
that the lesser part of my being is yield down to defeatism.

November
10, 11 LOX' timepiece.

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,-- What shall I state to you to- night--
a day monotonous with fog.

The result of all this was a lowering of the dignity of Christ, taking away His saving power
and the "substitution of various ascetic abstinences and ritualistic practices (2:20) for trust
in Him, the worship of angels (2:18), and a reveling in dreams and visions."  "This was kindred
to a type of speculation which later became rife under the name of Gnosticism."

To these ideas Paul opposed the true doctrine of the Headship of Christ (2:19) and that He
is the only link between God and the universe (1:15-17).  "By Him were all things created (1:16)
that are in heaven and that are in earth."  Christ is the only Mediator (1:13, 14). In this
faith there is no place for ascetic mortification. Evil is in our unwillingness to live the
life in Christ.  In Christ we are dead to sin and risen with Him to a life of holiness (2:20-23;
3:1-4).  Christ is not only our Redeemer (1:14) and the Head of the church, but the source
of creation and its Lord (1:16, 17).  We have a similar error (against which Paul warns) taught
to-day by the speculative thinker, who fills the world with forces which leave no room for
the working of a personal will.

+Central Thought+--Jesus Christ the sole Savior of men and Mediator between God and men (1:13-14),
the Creator (1:16; 2:9) and Head of the church (1:18). Exhortation to follow Christ (3:1-4).

+Time and Place.+--This Epistle was written at Rome and sent by the messenger, Tychicus, (4:7,
8, 18) to the church at Colossæ about 63 A.D.

Paul also directed that it be read to the church at Laodicea (4:16).  Thanksgiving for their
faith and prayer for their increase and knowledge of the will of God.

2.  Doctrinal.  "The sole Headship of Christ" (1:13-3:4).  (a) Christ the Mediator.  There
is redemption for us through His blood.  (b) Christ, the image of the invisible God, Creator
and Preserver of all things. (c) He is the Head of the church, reconciliation is only through
Him.  The Colossians were reconciled to God through the mediation of Christ.  It is the earnest
desire of Paul that the church at Colossæ should remain rooted in the faith which it had been
taught.  (d) Warning against wrong speculation; lest any man "through philosophy or vain deceit"
obscure or cause the Colossians to deny the true Godhead of Christ (2:8-15).  (e) Renewed warnings
against errors in worship; Jewish observances, ordinances and asceticisms, and the adoration
of angels.  (f) In Christ we are dead to the rudiments of the world and risen into communion
with God in Christ.

3.  Practical (3:5-4:6).  (a) Exhortations to cast out all sins of the unregenerate nature
and to put on the new man in Christ.  Then Christ will be all and in all. (b) All family and
social duties are to be performed as in the sight of Christ.  (c) Renewed exhortations to prayer
and watchfulness.

4.  Conclusion (4:7-18).  (a) The mission of Tychicus and Onesimus, the greetings of the companions
of Paul and his expressed desire that the churches of Colossæ and Laodicea exchange Epistles.
(b) The Salutation.

THE EPISTLE TO PHILEMON

+Occasion.+--This is the only purely personal letter of Paul that we possess.  It is placed
in this group because it was sent with the Epistle to the Colossians and by the same messenger,
Tychicus (Col. 4:7-9).  Philemon was a member (with his wife Apphia) of the church at Colossæ
(Philemon 2).  Onesimus was a runaway slave, belonging to Philemon, who had found his way to
Rome and been converted by Paul (Philemon 10), who returned him, with this letter, to his master
(Col. 4:9; Philemon 10-12).

In this letter we have a picture of the Apostle's kindness of heart and a carrying out of the
principles which Paul had advocated in his First Epistle to the Corinthians (7:20-24), "Let
every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called."  We find also this same principle
set forth, in another way, in his letter to the Colossians upon the "Supremacy of Christ."
These principles will make all men brethren in Christ and every man will strive to serve Christ
in his own place, whatever that place is. Paul exhorts Philemon, along this very line, to receive
Onesimus not as a servant but as a brother beloved (Philemon 16).

The practical teaching of this letter upon the relations between masters and servants and employers
and employees is very pertinent to the present times.  The true solution of all labor troubles
is that men should regard each other as brethren under the leadership of Jesus Christ.

2.  Statement of the object of the letter (8-21).  As a favor for love's sake Philemon is asked
to receive back Onesimus no longer a runaway slave but Paul's spiritual child.  Emphasis is
laid upon the fact that he is now a Christian brother and should be received as such.

3.  Conclusion (22-25).  (a) In expectation of a speedy release from imprisonment the Apostle
asks that a lodging be secured for him (22 v.).  (b) Salutation and benediction (23-25).

THE EPISTLE TO THE EPHESIANS

+The City of Ephesus and the Church.+--This city was, next to Rome, the most important visited
by Paul. It was the capital of Asia Minor and a great commercial center.  It was the seat of
the worship of the goddess Diana.

Paul first visited the city when he was returning from his second missionary tour, but, while
asked to prolong his stay, he remained only for a short time (Acts 18:19-21). During his third
missionary journey he again visited the city and remained for three years (Acts 20:31, compare
19:10, 22).  His success in Ephesus was very great (Acts 19:18-20, 26) and extended beyond
the city.  The letters to the churches at Colossæ (Col. 1:2) and Laodicea (this letter is lost)
(Col. 4:16) show his care for the churches that were adjacent to Ephesus and of which we have
no account of his visiting.

+Title and Time of Writing.+--Many scholars think that this Epistle was a circular letter written
for the edification of the churches of Asia Minor and sent to the church of the capital city.
This opinion is strengthened by the lack of local allusions and the naming of friends, as in
other epistles.  The inscription "at Ephesus" is wanting in two of the more important manuscripts.
"On this view it may be supposed that a space was left in the salutation in which could be
inserted the name of the particular place where the letter was being read, that the letter
finally fell wholly into the keeping of the Ephesian church, and that the space was at length
permanently filled by the phrase 'at Ephesus.'"

The time and place of writing was at Rome about 63 A.D.  This Epistle was sent by the messenger,
Tychicus, (Eph. 6:21) who also carried the letters to the church at Colossæ and to Philemon
(Col. 4:7-9).

+Subject.+--As in Colossians, the subject is the Headship of Christ (3:9-11); His person and
work.  God's eternal purpose is disclosed.  Christ is given sway over all things "both which
are in heaven and which are on earth" (1:10, 2l).  The unity of the church in Christ is set
forth; the unity of the Gentile and Jewish branches in Him; the unity of all the individual
members in Him. This union is spiritual and not mechanical; it is holy and pure; therefore
sin is excluded.  Paul looks upon this as the mystery of the ages, now revealed to him.  There
is one great kingdom, the risen and glorified Christ is the Head of this kingdom (1:19-23).
Redemption and reception into this kingdom is through Jesus Christ (1-7).

Paul in this epistle rises above the controversies of the hour and sees in clear vision the
eternal realities and the great plan of God for the saving of men.  (a) Salutation.  (b) Thanksgiving
and Thesis (1:3-14).  Unity in Christ. He who is the Head of the church is the Center of the
universe (1:10).  The eternal purpose of God in Salvation is now made known.  Before the foundation
of the world, man and the redeemed church of Christ were in the thought of God.  Christ in
whom we have redemption looked forward to His mission from eternity.  "Creation, nature, and
redemption are all parts of one system"; in the reconciliation of the cross all orders of beings
are concerned. (1:10).  (c) Prayer.  A petition that the understanding of believers may be
illuminated; that they may know the hope of their calling and the riches of their heritage,
which comes through unity with their risen and ascended Lord.

2.  Doctrinal.  Unity in Christ (ch. 2-3).  (a) The calling of the Gentiles out of "trespasses
and sins" into a new life in Christ.  (c) The mystery of the universal call was made known
to Paul by a new revelation.  Prayer for a more full comprehension of this unity.

3.  Practical.  The new life in unity with Christ (4:1-6:17).  (a) Exhortation to walk worthy
of this new life.  (b) Exhortation to gain the victory over sin "in virtue of the sense of
unity with man in Christ."  (c) Social duties.  The regeneration and consecration in this new
life of the relations of husbands and wives, children and parents, and slaves and masters,
(d) Final entreaty, in the battle against the powers of evil, to put "on the whole armour of God."

4.  Conclusion (6:18-24).  (a) Personal.  Paul requests special prayer for himself in captivity.
Tychicus is commended.  (b) Farewell and blessing.

THE EPISTLE TO THE PHILIPPIANS

The City of Philippi and the Church.--This city is notable from the fact that it was the first,
in Europe, in which the gospel tidings were made known.  Accounts of how Paul came to visit
Macedonia and to begin the work in Philippi are given in Acts (16:10, 12-40). Going out of
the city as he did by the river side, where prayer was wont to be made, and talking to a number
of women about the "New Way" would not seem to be a very favorable beginning for a movement
which was to produce such exceedingly large results.  But Paul was so full of zeal for Christ
that he seized every opportunity, no matter how small, to make Him known.  This church afterwards
was a great comfort to the Apostle.  This letter shows how he loved it and how he exhorted
them to rejoice in the Lord (4:4).

+Occasion.+--Paul was in prison in Rome. Another last Judgment signifier one of the thirty- five large
pictures which adorned the entrance of the imperativeness for the silver vas etc., in the service
of the police.

Annunziata. It is specifically believed that he painted this during
his sojourn at Fiesole; but as we happen it see posterior to this,
we shall talk of it later, and must first erase that in 1432 Fra Angelico
painted an" edict" for the church of Sant' Alessandro at Brescia, said
to be the one on an altar to the correct on entering the Protestant.
thus greatly is it transmute by re-establishment, that no one in appear
at it today would woolgather that it was by our illustrator, if so
it ever were his employment.

It would appear that the restorer had used other framework in repainting the archangel and the
Virgo.[ 36] On July 11th 1433 the bid was signed between the Consuls of
the Arte dei Linaioli( club of Linen weaver) and our artist, for the
sanctuary of which they had asked Lorenzo Ghiberti to yield a planning.

The declaration says:" We prosecute Fra Guido, called Fra Giovanni
of the Order of St. Dominic of Fiesole, to acrylic for the said Guild,
a synagogue of Our begum; to be painted within and without with colours,
gold, blue and silver, all of the very finest that container be establish,
with all his creation and diligence, and for all this and his weariness
and employment, he shall have one hundred and ninety gold guilder,
or any more sum as shall look to his conscience, and in thinking of
the illustration that are in the plan."

This painting is today to be admired in the Uffizi Gallery where it
was put in 1777; it is too universally cognize to condition a time description.
The Virgin invest with the Holy Child is environ by twelve saint,
the most lovely, awkward and celestial that Fra Angelico ever painted.
In the interior of the face coffer are St. toilet and St. evaluation,
in the outside St. cock and St. grade. The latter, as is ill cognize,
was the protector of the doily Guild:" therefore," state chaplain
Marchese," they wished that whether the synagogue were shut or open,
he should be always in their vision."

  (d) Exhortation to unity in Christ.

2.  Doctrinal (2:5-12).  In this short passage we have the Christian creed in brief form. 
"The Godhead of Christ and His Manhood--His Pre-existence and His Incarnation--His Passion
and His Exaltation."

3.  Conclusion of the first part (2:13-3:1).  (a) Renewed exhortation to an upright and blameless
Christian life.  (b) The return of Epaphroditus.  (c) Farewell message.

Second part (3:2-4:23).  This section seems to have been added after the letter had been finished.

1.  Warnings (3:2-21).  (a) Against Judaic errors. Paul could boast that he had been a good
Jew and scrupulously kept the law, yet he renounced all that he might win Christ.  True righteousness
can come only through faith in Christ.  (b) Against a false idea of the liberty of the gospel;
whereby men, claiming to be Christians, walked in evil ways.

2.  Final exhortations (4:1-9) to steadfastness, unity, joy, and the following of all good
in Christ.  Acknowledgment of gifts and benedictions (4:10-23).

QUESTIONS

What is the question at issue in this group of Epistles?  What the reason for raising this
question?  What answer is given? What attention is now paid to this question?  When were these
Epistles written?  How were they sent?  What can be said of the Epistles to the Colossians?
The church at Colossæ, how was it organized?  What was the occasion of this Epistle?  What
the central thought?  What the time and place of writing?  Give the principal divisions and
chief points.  What was the occasion of the Epistle to Philemon?  Give the principal divisions
and chief points.  What can be said of the Epistle to the Ephesians?  Give an account of the
founding of this church.  What can be said of the title and time of writing?  What is the subject?
Give the principal divisions and chief points.  What can be said of the Epistle to the Philippians?
How was this church organized? What was the occasion of the Epistle?  What the objects?  Give
the time of writing.  TITUS.  SECOND TIMOTHY.

ANALYSIS

+The Place of the Epistles+--When Written.

+Paul's Fourth Missionary Journey+--Notices and Time.  The First Trip Eastward.  The Trip Westward
to Spain.  The Second Trip Eastward.  The Second Imprisonment of Paul.

+The Questions Discussed+--The Personal Element.  The Doctrinal Part. The Practical Teaching.
The Special Theme.

+Paul's Last Declaration of His Faith.+

+The First Epistle to Timothy+--Timothy.  Time and Place.  Purpose. Principal Divisions and
Chief Points.

+The Epistle to Titus+--Titus.  Purpose.  Time and Place.  Principal Divisions and Chief Points.

+The Second Epistle to Timothy+--The Last Words of Paul.  Time and Place of Writing.  Purpose.

THE PLACE OF THE EPISTLES

+When Written.+--It is generally agreed among scholars that no place can be found for the writing
of First Timothy, Titus, and Second Timothy in the period covered by Luke in his narrative in Acts.

Agreeing with the tradition of the church, however, the opinion of many eminent scholars is
that Paul was released from the first Roman imprisonment (Acts 28:16, 30), that he again took
up his missionary work, and at the end of a few years of such work, he was a second time imprisoned
and suffered martyrdom under the Roman Emperor Nero.

It was during this period between the first and second imprisonments that First Timothy and
Titus were written.  Second Timothy was written during the second imprisonment at Rome, and
at the time when Paul was expecting his sentence of death.  Eusebius (H. E. 2:22-2) says, that
"at the end of the two years of imprisonment, according to tradition, Paul went forth again
upon the ministry of preaching; and in a second visit to the city ended his life by martyrdom
under Nero, and that during his imprisonment he wrote the Second Epistle to Timothy."

PAUL'S FOURTH MISSIONARY JOURNEY

+Notices and Time.+--From the notices given in the Epistles and other sources the probable
course of the missionary travels of Paul from 63-67 A.D. has been reconstructed.

+The First Trip Eastward.+--When Paul wrote to the church at Philippi (2:24) and to Philemon
at Colossæ (22 v.) he evidently expected to be released from his imprisonment very soon and
to see his beloved Philippian church and Philemon.  He was so sure of speedily visiting Colossæ
that he asked that a lodging be prepared for him.  With Paul to plan was to act and it is quite
possible that he undertook this trip immediately upon his release from prison.  He probably
also visited Ephesus and a number of other cities.

+The Trip Westward to Spain.+--In the Epistle to the Romans Paul declared his intention to
visit Spain (Rom. 15:24, 28).  It is probable that he, upon his return from the visit to Asia
Minor, remained for a very short time in Rome and then made a voyage to Spain. 

My dear Charles, to you' ll be worrying about me again, wondering why I to,: lying doggo or whether anything'
m not he to me.' m. Anyhow, I you the, what mischief I' m up' has
happened has occur, but I tell be quite sure myself what it-- I am
afraid is all I know.

  The Muratorian Fragment names "the departure of Paul from
the city to Spain."

+The Second Trip Eastward.+--We can now, from notices in First and Second Timothy and Titus,
quite closely follow Paul in his travels. From Spain he probably went by various stages to
Ephesus, where as he tells us (1 Tim. 1:3) he left Timothy in charge when he went into Macedonia.
From Macedonia he probably wrote his first letter to Timothy (1:3).  From Macedonia he went
to Troas and from Troas to Miletus (2 Tim. 4:13).  On account of sickness Trophimus was left
at Miletus (2 Tim. 4:20).  He next probably visited Crete, where he left Titus (Titus 1:5).
From Crete it is thought that Paul went to Corinth (2 Tim. 4:20) where he left Erastus and
in all probability wrote to Titus (1:5).  In the letter to Titus Paul speaks of being at Nicopolis
and of his intention to spend the winter in that city (Titus 3:12). But these notices of places
are by no means exhaustive.  They show, however, how wide were Paul's last travels.

+The Second Imprisonment of Paul.+--It is by no means unlikely that the enemies of Paul, of
whom we hear so much in the first three missionary journeys, were stirred to renewed activity
by again seeing him at liberty and conducting an active missionary campaign.  But with a prisoner
on parole from the Imperial Court the local magistrates could do nothing.  But a new element
came in.  The great fire, which destroyed so large a part of the city of Rome on the 18th of
July, 64 A.D., was used by the Emperor Nero as an excuse for starting a great persecution against
the Christians.  This was done to divert the odium of the starting of the fire from himself,
for he had sung and danced the "Mime of the Burning of Troy" from a turret of his palace during
this great conflagration.  It was some time before this persecution was extended to the provinces
and Paul's enemies saw their opportunity to accuse him to the Imperial Court, where under the
circumstances they would then find a ready hearing.  Paul was probably rearrested at Nicopolis
where he intended to winter (Titus 3:12) and hurried off to Rome.  This time he endured no
light imprisonment.  Onesiphorus had difficulty in finding him (2 Tim. 1:16, 17) and he was
closely confined in a common criminal dungeon (2 Tim. 2:9).  From this dungeon he wrote the
Second Epistle to Timothy and from thence he went to his death.

THE QUESTIONS DISCUSSED

+The Personal Element+ in these epistles is quite large both in respect to Timothy and Titus
and Paul himself, but it is quite evident that this element is not the chief cause for the writing.

+The Doctrinal Part.+--Paul is here as strenuous for the need of repentance, the atonement
through Jesus Christ and His sole sufficiency as Mediator, Savior, and Lord of all (1 Tim.
1:15-17; Titus 2:13; 3:4-7), as in his other Epistles.  There are also enemies of the truth
who are to be opposed (2 Tim. 3).  It is quite evident from what Paul says in the second chapter
and elsewhere in Titus and Second Timothy that the Colossian heresy is already bearing its
evil fruit and is likely in the future to do great injury to the churches.

+The Practical Teaching+ about the necessity of developing and conserving the Church's system
of government occupies, however, the chief place.  "The two notes which are struck again and
again are: First, 'Hold fast the tradition, the deposit of faith.'  Second, 'Preserve order
in the church.'  In short this group of Epistles constitutes Paul's last will and testament
in which he gives his final instructions for the maintenance and continuity of the faith."

The church of Jesus Christ must have form and order.  The truth must have a proper shelter.
Churches must have and observe certain regulations.  There must be proper officers.

The gospel is applied to outward conduct.  Great stress is laid upon the character of church
officers (1 Tim. 3:1-13; Titus 1:5-7).  Pastors are directed how they should bear themselves
toward church members and what they should teach (1 Tim. 5; Titus 2).  The conduct of the Church
in the presence of the heathen world and its magistrates is set forth (Titus 3).  Instruction
is given in regard to public worship (1 Tim. 2).  The most effective barrier against all forms
of evil, it is declared, is a diligent study of the Scriptures and a fervent preaching of the
word (2 Tim. 3:13-4:5).

+The Special Theme+ then is, "The constitution, methods, and conduct of the early churches."
(1 Tim. 2:1, 2, 8, 9-12; 3:1-13; Titus 1:5-14; 2:1-10; 3:1, 2, 8-11, 13, 14; 2 Tim. 2:2, 14-18;
3:6-9).

PAUL'S LAST DECLARATION OF HIS FAITH

The famous passage in 2 Timothy (4:6-8) shows how the Great Apostle went triumphantly to his
death.  It is a declaration of the sustaining power of his faith in the Savior whom he had
everywhere proclaimed.

"I am now ready to be offered and the time of my departure is at hand.

THE FIRST EPISTLE TO TIMOTHY

+Timothy+ was one of the close companions of Paul.  His father was a Greek and his mother a
Jewess, by the name of Eunice, (2 Tim. 1:5; Acts 16:1).  He was a native of Lystra, Paul took
him as his companion in travel and addressed two Epistles to him; he was sent on a number of
important missions.  Timothy is mentioned twenty-four times by name in the Acts and Epistles;
from these notices we can construct his itinerary with Paul and see how beloved and how trusted
he was by the Great Apostle.  During Paul's last journey he left him in charge of the affairs
of the church at Ephesus (1 Tim. 1:3).  When Paul was apprehended a second time and lying in
a dungeon at Rome, in expectation of death, he wrote Timothy the last letter (2 Timothy) he
ever penned, and besought him to come to him as speedily as possible (2 Tim. 4:9).

+Time and Place of Writing.+--Paul in all probability wrote the First Epistle to Timothy from
Macedonia (1 Tim. 1:3) in the year 66 A.D.

+The Purpose+ "involved is through the instruction and exhortation of Timothy, to purify, strengthen,
and elevate the Christian life of the church in Ephesus."  This teaching is put in such a way
that it is applicable to every Christian minister and church.

+Principal Divisions and Chief Points.+

1.  Greeting (1:1, 2).

2.  The True teaching of the gospel (ch. 1).  Timothy is warned against false teachers and
reminded of the aim and end of life in Christ.

3.  The order and regulation of public worship (ch. 2).  (a) Prayer, for those in authority
and for all men.  (b) Instruction.  There is one God and one Mediator (Christ) between God
and man.  (c) Conduct of men and women in the church assemblies.

4.  Qualifications of the church officers (ch. 3).  (a) The ideal minister.  (b) The ideal
deacon and the ministering women.  (c) Conclusion of chapter.  Paul declares his intention
to visit Timothy. An ascription of praise.

5.  The government of the Christian church and community (ch. 4-6).  In these three chapters
Timothy is charged by Paul to keep before him a high view of the church and its grand destiny.
(a) Timothy, as a teacher, is reminded of his commission to put the church on guard against
errors of doctrine and life (ch. 4).  (b) Timothy is shown how he should bear rule and conduct
himself towards the elders and women of his congregation.  Paul adds instructions in regard
to a man's care for his family, support of the ministry, discipline of offenders, etc. (ch.
5).  (c) Relations of masters and servants.  Right attitude of believers in Christ toward riches.
(d) Closing charge to Timothy with benediction (6:20, 21).

THE EPISTLE TO TITUS

+Titus+ was a beloved disciple of Paul.  He was a Gentile and was taken by Paul to Jerusalem
and was made a test case of the freedom of the gospel and was not compelled to be circumcised
(Gal. 2:1-5). 2:1, 3; 2 Tim. 4:10; Titus 1:4).  The early church tradition is that Titus was
descended from the royal family of Crete.  He was an able and capable missionary. We have no
account of his conversion.  He might have come first in contact with Paul and been converted
when the Great Apostle visited Crete on his way to Rome as a prisoner (Acts 27:7-13).  Some
time was spent at this island by Paul's company (Acts 27:9).  Paul again visited Crete after
his first Roman imprisonment and when he went away he left Titus in charge of affairs (Titus
1:5), "To set in order things that are wanting and to ordain elders in every city."  This message
of Paul to Titus not only shows the confidence which Paul reposed in him, but also how widespread
Christianity was in Crete.  After Titus had completed his special work in Crete he was to rejoin
Paul at Nicopolis (Titus 3:12).

+The Purpose+ of this letter is to show Titus what he is to do, in his work with the churches,
and how to do it.

+Time and Place of Writing.+--It is thought that this Epistle was written from Corinth in 66 A.D.

+Principal Divisions and Chief Points.+

1.  Greeting and subject of the Epistle (1:1-5).  Titus is left in Crete to accomplish certain
things (1:5) after which he is to rejoin Paul (3:12).

2.  The kind of officers to be appointed in the Cretan churches (1:5-16).  Special moral and
spiritual fitness is set forth as necessary in view of the peculiar character of the Cretans
and certain forms of doctrinal error.

3.  The instruction to be given to the Cretans (2:1-3:11).  (a) "The things which become sound
doctrine."  (b) Practical teaching for the proper regulation of the conduct of all classes.
(c) The foundation of the instruction rests upon Christ.  (d) Proper attitude of the Christian
community toward the Pagan world; magistrates and those who have not yet believed in Christ. The Germans
had set fire to it by hand of in the at this point. This proceeding, generally detested by soldiers,
is, I think, forced by strategic necessity make any kind of use of it.
All tomorrow we have been, witnessing this devastation, while above
our heads the little field- mice are taking advantage of the straw
in which we are who afraid to allow us even a Spain little enjoyment
of life.

Later the artillery came up with a tremendous din and showed us the use
of these superlative precautions. None the less, I have out for a hole.
As soon as we are buried been able to enjoy When a Service village
is destroyed it is difficult for us in the rear to to sleep.

Our existence, as infantry, is a little like of lapin in the shooting season. The more knowing of
us, at any rate, are perpetually on look- in it, we are 5 ordered
not and to move again.

These wise are unfortunately not always given with discrimination;
thus to commit a individual imprudence, but the, yesterday there
were four of us in an advance- trench situated in a magnificent spot
and perfectly hidden beneath leaves.

We should have been the landscape but night; they had been dislodged from it after two nights of fierce
fighting: their action may be interpreted as an intention to retreat for the the good corporal,
the landscape-- alas a scene of smoke and tragedy able to delight
in yesterday. Be sure, beloved mother, that I do not wish certainly
this war is the triumph of Fate, of Providence and Destiny.

I pray ardently to deserve the grace of return, but apart from a
few moments of only human impatience, I can say that the greater
part of my being is given up to resignation.

November 10, 11 o Paul' clock. MY VERY shall I DEAR parent,-- What
say to you to- day-- a day monotonous with fog.



4.  Last words of Paul (4:6-22).  The Apostle now turns to himself and speaks of his coming
martyrdom.  He is ready to be offered, he has fought a good fight.  He beseeches Timothy to
come and see him and bring Mark.  He refers to his first hearing when every friend left him
alone and only the Lord stood by him.  He, after various messages, closes with the usual benediction.

QUESTIONS

What is the place of these Epistles in Paul's life?  What can be said of Paul's fourth missionary
journey; the first trip eastward, the trip westward to Spain, and the second trip eastward?
How did Paul come to be imprisoned a second time?

A New Method for Bible Classes

BY HENRY T. SELL

Studies In Early Church History.
  12 mo, paper, 25 cts. net; cloth, 50 cts. net.

Studies in the Life of the Christian.
  His Faith and His Service.

Bible Studies in the Life of Paul.
  Historical and Constructive.

15th edition, revised and enlarged.

Supplemental Bible Studies.

5th edition, revised.

Bible Studies by Books.
  12 mo, paper, 35 cts. net; cloth, 60 cts. net.

Bible Studies by Doctrines.
  A Series of Twenty-four Historical Bible
  Studies, from Genesis to Revelation.

Fleming H. Revell Company

Publishers

