The CRIMINOLOGY SERIES.

1. The Female Offender.  By Professor LOMBROSO.
   Edited, with Introduction, by W. DOUGLAS MORRISON.
2. Criminal Sociology.  By Professor ENRICO FERRI.
3. Juvenile Offender.  By W. DOUGLAS MORRISON.
    ---- LONDON: T. FISHER UNWIN.

THE CROWD A STUDY OF THE POPULAR MIND

BY GUSTAVE LE BON {b. May 7, 1841--d. Dec 13, 1931}

The following work is devoted to an account of the characteristics of crowds.

The whole of the common characteristics with which heredity endows the individuals of a race
constitute the genius of the race.  When, however, a certain number of these individuals are
gathered together in a crowd for purposes of action, observation proves that, from the mere
fact of their being assembled, there result certain new psychological characteristics, which
are added to the racial characteristics and differ from them at times to a very considerable
degree.

Organised crowds have always played an important part in the life of peoples, but this part
has never been of such moment as at present.  The substitution of the unconscious action of
crowds for the conscious activity of individuals is one of the principal characteristics of
the present age.

I have endeavoured to examine the difficult problem presented by crowds in a purely scientific
manner--that is, by making an effort to proceed with method, and without being influenced by
opinions, theories, and doctrines.  This, I believe, is the only mode of arriving at the discovery
of some few particles of truth, especially when dealing, as is the case here, with a question
that is the subject of impassioned controversy.  A man of science bent on verifying a phenomenon
is not called upon to concern himself with the interests his verifications may hurt.  In a
recent publication an eminent thinker, M. Goblet d'Alviela, made the remark that, belonging
to none of the contemporary schools, I am occasionally found in opposition of sundry of the
conclusions of all of them.  I hope this new work will merit a similar observation.  To belong
to a school is necessarily to espouse its prejudices and preconceived opinions.

Still I should explain to the reader why he will find me draw conclusions from my investigations
which it might be thought at first sight they do not bear; why, for instance, after noting
the extreme mental inferiority of crowds, picked assemblies included, I yet affirm it would
be dangerous to meddle with their organisation, notwithstanding this inferiority.

The reason is, that the most attentive observation of the facts of history has invariably demonstrated
to me that social organisms being every whit as complicated as those of all beings, it is in
no wise in our power to force them to undergo on a sudden far-reaching transformations.  Nature
has recourse at times to radical measures, but never after our fashion, which explains how
it is that nothing is more fatal to a people than the mania for great reforms, however excellent
these reforms may appear theoretically.  They would only be useful were it possible to change
instantaneously the genius of nations.  This power, however, is only possessed by time.  Men
are ruled by ideas, sentiments, and customs--matters which are of the essence of ourselves.
Institutions and laws are the outward manifestation of our character, the expression of its
needs.  Being its outcome, institutions and laws cannot change this character.

The study of social phenomena cannot be separated from that of the peoples among whom they
have come into existence.  From the philosophic point of view these phenomena may have an absolute
value; in practice they have only a relative value.

It is necessary, in consequence, when studying a social phenomenon, to consider it successively
under two very different aspects.  It will then be seen that the teachings of pure reason are
very often contrary to those of practical reason.  There are scarcely any data, even physical,
to which this distinction is not applicable.  From the point of view of absolute truth a cube
or a circle are invariable geometrical figures, rigorously defined by certain formulas.  From
the point of view of the impression they make on our eye these geometrical figures may assume
very varied shapes.  By perspective the cube may be transformed into a pyramid or a square,
the circle into an ellipse or a straight line.  Moreover, the consideration of these fictitious
shapes is far more important than that of the real shapes, for it is they and they alone that
we see and that can be reproduced by photography or in pictures.  In certain cases there is
more truth in the unreal than in the real.  To present objects with their exact geometrical
forms would be to distort nature and render it unrecognisable.  If we imagine a world whose
inhabitants could only copy or photograph objects, but were unable to touch them, it would
be very difficult for such persons to attain to an exact idea of their form. This melancholly event
took place about a quarter before three o'clock in the afternoon--a few minutes previously to the time ordinarily
set apart for the ringing of the bell for the exercises of Public
Worship. It was just at the close of a refreshing shower of rain, attended
as is usual at this season of the year, with peals of thunder and flashes of
vivid lightening. The Electric fluid seems to have been attracted by
the spire of the Steeple, which--running up from the centre of a four-sided
roof rising in the form of a pyramid--was rapidly conducted by means
of a large quantity of iron used for the security of the timbers, to the
shingles and other combustible materials of three of the corners
of the building, almost directly under the eave.

There entirely inaccesible for some minutes to any efforts which could
be made use of for the purpose of quenching it, and continually fed by the
qualities of the matter with which its work of desolation, with a
rapidity which was truly awful and appalling. In a space of time too
brief almost to be deemed credible by such as were not witnesses of the sublime
and fearful spectacle, the entire roof exhibited to the immense multitude
gathered around to mingle their sympathies and tender their assistance,
nothing but one mighty map of living fire--curling in rapid and terrific
volumes around the still suspended tho tottering steeple; and smiling
at every effort towards extinction, save that of Him--that Dread and
Aweful Being, by whom the flame had been enkindled.

A period of two hours had not elapsed from the commencement of the conflagration, before the whole edifice
except the walls, was involved in one shapeless mass of smoking ruin, presenting a scene, as desolating and
repulsive to the common citizen, as it was tearful and heart-rending
to the church and congregation.

Our holy and beautiful house where our fathers praised the Lord--to
use the language of the Prophet,--was thus burned up with fire; and
all our pleasant things laid waste.

With the exception of the lamps, a venerable clock in front of the
Gallery opposite, the pulpit, the books and cushions, a part of the
windows, the Stoves, a large proportion of the pipes of a Splendid
Organ which was split open with an axe for that purpose, and some of
the plank broken from the pews--all was destroyed; and but for the
real and practical sympathy of many of our esteemed citizens in braving
dangers of no common magnitude, a like destruction had been the fate
of these also.

The house had been standing for more than 63 years--the steeple and galleries
had been built somewhat later--and except the Episcopal church on
Washington Street, generally known by the name of "Christ's Church"--was
the oldest of all the ten places of religious worship in town. For many years
its bell was the only Church-going signal within the limits of the corporation;
and owing to this circumstance, connected with its peculiarly clear
and inviting tones, the destruction of it--which was caused by its fall
from so lofty an eminence--seemed the occasion of regrets to the
public at large, more immediately expressed than for the edifice itself.

To the congregation, no loss besides the house, was more deeply
deplored than that of the large and richly toned Organ. Not only because
of its superior worth as an Instrument of Music, the difficulty of
replacing it by another, and the sacred uses to which it was applied,
but equally because it had been presented by a few venerated and much
esteemed individuals, most of whom are now sleeping in the dust.

For several years, there had been an Insurance effected on the building
to the amount of five thousand dollars--two thousand five hundred
on each of the Offices in town.

But it so happened in providence, that one of these Policies, which
had expired about four or five months previous, had never been renewed;--so
that with the exception of twenty-five hundred dollars, the loss to
the congregation was total.

Yet there was one circumstance which ought to be recorded with emotions
of adoring gratitude. The calamity took place at a time when on
ordinary occasions, some individuals would have been in the house--as
it was so near the hour of the afternoon's service,--and had that
been the case now, there is much reason to fear, that it would have
been attended, if not with loss of life, at any rate with serious
injury to not a few.

But it had been so ordered by Infinite Wisdom no doubt, that, for the
first Sabbath in more than two years, the Church was closed during
the whole of that day--the Pastor having been providentially called
away to supply the pulpit of a sick brother in the neighboring city
of Georgetown.

So that no individual was in the house, and no serious injury occurred to any individual during
the progress of the fire--and thus, while there is much to produce sadness
and to call for deep humiliation before God, the Session would feel, that there
is still something to awaken emotions of gratitude and praise; and that
however severely the loss may be felt, yet it has not been unattended
with significant expressions of kindness and regard.

Dr. Harrison's lamentations, while justified, were not for complete demolition.
In the minutes of the trustees, the fact is stated that the roof
and cupola burned and fell in, destroying much of the interior woodwork,
but not all.

The walls and part of the galleries remained intact, Dr. Muir's tablet
was uninjured, many windows were not broken, and the organ, at first
thought destroyed, was very little injured; it remains in use to this
day, and likewise the old clock.

However, the damage was terrific and there was only a nominal insurance
to cover the loss.

Part of the congregation wished a new building site and it was given some
thought, but the "siller" [silver] was found to be inadequate for the
purpose. The amount in the treasury did cover the cost of restoration,
and on April 5, 1836, it was "Resolved, That the congregation of the
Church be called to meet at the Lecture room on Friday evening next at
1/2 past 7 o'clock, to decide permanently on the location of the Church."[131]
In November the committee minutes recorded that "The location of the Church
was permanently fixed on the old site,"[132] and on February 7, 1837,
"Mr. Smith, from the committee appointed to consult on the propriety of
lowering the gallery, reported that it was thought to be inexpedient to
do so."[133] The final notation on the new church read: "It was, on
Motion Resolved that our New house of worship, be solemnly Dedicated
to the Worship of Almighty God on the last Sabbath of July next--it
being on that day two years before, that our former house of worship
was consumed by fire...."[134]

It is distressing to think of the
eighteenth century interior destroyed on that hot afternoon of July
1835, but we must be grateful for what the rebuilders of 1837 preserved
as an outstanding example of Georgian architecture.

In 1843 the tower was added: it was in the approximate
location that the pulpit had stood for many years. In 1853 the front
vestibule was constructed.

Dr. Harrison was a delicate man and for a long time his health was far from
good.

In 1848 he was so wretched that it was recommended he go south for
his health.

The
firm of Lambert & McKenzie offered Dr. Harrison a free passage to
and from the Barbados on the barque Archibald Gracie. The minutes of
the committee record the motion of appreciation to the owners.

Mr. Robert Bell of the old printing firm of that name made a gift of letter
paper to Dr. Harrison every Christmas for many years.

In his latter years the Doctor in thanking Mr. Bell always said that
he never expected to see another Christmas.

He saw at least three after the first of these communications, for that
many letters exist containing the same mournful allusion.

In 1862 the Civil War disrupted the Church.

Dr. Elias Harrison died in 1863 after forty-three years of ministering
to his congregation and with his death the Church ceased to function and its
congregation scattered. During the Battle of Bull Run, it was used as a hospital
for wounded soldiers, and from time to time it was used by other faiths,
including a Negro Baptist congregation.

Neglected, uncared for, the prey of thieves and vandals, the doors were finally
closed.

The cemetery lies between the Church and the manse. Here John Carlyle
sleeps. Cofounder and trustee of Alexandria in 1748; son-in-law to
Colonel William Fairfax; brother-in-law to Lawrence Washington; commissary
of the Virginia forces under Braddock in 1755; collector of customs
on the South Potomac, and major in the Revolution; a Scottish gentleman,
heir to a title, he cast his fate with the colonies.

Nearby lies the tomb of William Hunter, founder of St. Andrew's Society, and that beloved friend
and physician of General Washington, Dr. James Craik.

Ramsay, McKenzie, Muir, Vowell, Harper, Hepburn and Balfour are among the
names found inscribed upon the old stones. Their dust makes of this soil a part
of Old Scotland.

Chapter 12

Presenting The Sun Fire Company

In the eighteenth century calamities visited Alexandria, and of these nothing
was more feared than fire. To prevent and control such catastrophes the gentlemen
of the town formed themselves into several companies of fire fighters.

How and with what means the raging holocausts were controlled is revealed
in an old, mutilated, leather-bound minute book of the Sun Fire Company.[135]
The first entry in this treasure is part of the damaged record for
the March meeting in 1775.

The
next page is numbered 9 and contains the minutes for the April meeting.
This is evidence that the Company was formed in 1774 between August
and December.

At this March 1775 meeting it was agreed to limit the number of the Company to forty-five persons. The clerk
for this meeting was John Dalton; members served as clerks in rotation.

Absent members were fined one shilling three pence.

Members were to be provided with two buckets, a brown linen or oznaburg bag containing at least
four yards of material, and a wicker basket as soon as possible after
admittance.

These were to be hung up in good order and always in place. There was a forfeiture
of money for any neglect. The Company took some several months to
acquire proper ladders and hooks.

In April the "propriety of purchasing an Engine" was discussed and at
the June meeting it was agreed to postpone the matter. Three ladders
were then finished but most of the buckets were at the painters being
marked with owners' names and numbers. By August the ladders had been
completed by Thomas Flemming, and John Dalton was ordered to procure
locks with proper staples for securing the ladders under the "piazza
of the Court House."

As the Revolutionary War got under way many of the members were excused,
"being frequently abroad on the Servis of Their Country."

Among these were Captain Valentine Peirs, Captain John Allison, Colonel
John Fitzgerald and J. Windsor Brown.

Unfortunately the clerks took for granted that everybody knew when there had
been a fire and rarely are these important events mentioned in the minutes.
In January 1777, "William Wilson lost a bucket at the late fire" and he
was authorized to purchase another at the Company's expense; Robert Adam,
who was clerk, forgot to "warn the Company and was fined Ten Shillings";
several members neglected to put up lights when the late fire happened
at Zael Cooper's and the fine was two shillings.

The next clerk was "desired to Enquire of the several members if they had candles at their windows
and to collect Fines from such of them as had not."

The light begins to break--at the first hint of fire the Company member must,
at the fastest possible speed, put lighted candles in the front windows
of his dwelling. This was Alexandria's first alarm system! The member then dashed
for four yards of material in an oznaburg bag, two leather fire buckets
(they each weighed as much as a saddle) and a wicker basket and, without
stopping, he raced to the fire, where he either pumped water, formed
spectators in ranks for passing buckets, removed goods from burning houses
in his bag or basket, climbed ladders or pulled down adjoining houses
when necessary; and last but not least watched to "prevent evil minded
persons from plundering sufferers."

The only tranquil occupation was that of the "sentinels" who kept
watch over goods removed from the conflagration wherever such goods
were deposited.

What a spectacular sight a fire in Alexandria presented when one remembers the elegant dress of the day; short
clothes, elaborate jackets or vests, ruffled linen, full skirted
coats, perukes, queues braided and beribboned, powdered heads in three-cornered
hats, silken and white hose, buckled shoes; and that fires generally
occurred in winter upon the coldest days and in the worst weather, often
at night, and that these firemen were the élite of the town, the
serious, responsible merchants, doctors, masters, ship captains and
owners.

There was some reward now and then for their efforts. At the April
meeting in 1777, the "Succeeding Clerk is desired to warn the Company
to meet next month at the Ball Room and to Desire the Treasurer to
purchase Ten Gallons of Spirits, and one Loaf of Sugar Candles etc.
The Clerk to have the Ball Room cleaned and put in order."

Alas,
the members were either not warned or invited for only six showed
up. The next month was worse, again no warning and only four came. The clerk
was ordered to warn again and provide what spirit, sugar and candles may
be necessary for the next meeting and "that the same be held in the Town
House."

The clerk was reimbursed "one pound Two Shillings for white washing
and cleaning the Ball Room."

On February 22, 1779, a resolution was passed to fine the clerk refusing
or neglecting his duty forty-two shillings, and absent members three
shillings.

There was a fine called the "Moreover Fine," which was increased
from five shillings to nine shillings, and the Company voted to dispose
of any sum not exceeding £5 "when less than 2/3 of the members are
met."

Besides funds in cash, the Company had 1,000 pounds of tobacco on hand. The following July
the Company ordered the tobacco sold.

On Monday, October 27, 1783, nine years after the founding of the
Company, the succeeding clerk is ordered to give notice that at the
next meeting a proposal will be made to dispose of the money in stock
in the purchase of an engine.

Two months
later, undaunted by the recent unpleasantness, the treasurer was
requested to "Import from London on account of this Company a fire
engine value from seventy to eighty pounds sterling."

It took two years for the engine to arrive. Preparatory to its reception, officers were appointed
for its direction.

Nine stalwart members were chosen, and they were ordered to serve nine
months. Six shillings each was collected from the members to help make
up the deficiency, and a committee was appointed to wait upon the
county court with a petition requesting ground sufficient for building
an enginehouse upon the courthouse lot.

This was granted and the enginehouse was built on Fairfax Street "adjoining
the school House." The members were called on for a dollar each for
this purpose and it was later necessary to borrow another dollar.

Two keys were ordered labeled "Sun Fire Company."

The April minutes in 1786 contain the invoice for the engine:

To
a Fire Engine Imported from London with 2 dozen buckets Amt p. invoice
£ 72.14 Commission on shipping D^o--5% 3.12.

8 Insurance on £76 @ 2-1/2pc 1.18 Freight from London 6. 6 ----------
£ 84.10.

8
Exchange 40 pc^1 33.16. 2 ---------- 118. 6.10 Freight from Baltimore
1. 4 ---------- £119.10.10.

It was incorporated into the articles that the engine was to be worked for two hours every Monday
of the meeting, and anyone neglecting to attend and work the engine
was penalized nine pence.

Moreover William Herbert, Dennis Ramsay and Isaac Roberdeau were charged with
getting the engine to fires.

About this time (1788) the Virginia Assembly passed an act authorizing the different towns in the
state to elect fire companies.

In May 1789, Dr. William Brown was elected treasurer to succeed William
Hartshorne.

The first mention by the Sun of other fire companies in Alexandria
is in the minutes of February 28, 1791. In July specific reference
is made to the Friendship Fire Company and the Relief Fire Company.

In May 1793, the Sun Company was dissatisfied with the English engine,
and they began correspondence with a Mr. Mason of Philadelphia with
the intention of selling the old engine and acquiring a new one.

Mason manufactured
three engines. They contained 190, 170 and 160 gallons of water, respectively,
which they discharged in one minute and a half and they were worked
by twenty-four, twenty-two and eighteen or twenty men, respectively,
and varied in price accordingly.

The Sun Fire Company purchased the smallest engine for £125. It
seems to have arrived in April 1794. Later the old engine "with the
suction pipe" was thoroughly repaired by Mason and returned to the Sun Fire
Company.

By 1796 such confusion reigned at fires that the three companies associated
themselves together to make and sustain certain plans and rules for
the management of fires.

It was decided to have three directors or commanders, one chosen
from each company, only one of whom was to act at a time, who were to have
control of the engines, fire hooks, ladders and to be the judges
of the expediency of pulling down adjacent buildings. In order that
these gentlemen be more conspicuous (distinguished was the word)
it was decided to "elevate their voices above the ordinary clamour
on such occasions," each of them in action was ordered to carry in
his hand a "speaking trumpet, painted white, and not less than three
feet long."

Each company was to keep such an affair in the enginehouse.

There
were then chosen three subordinate directors who had immediate charge
of the engine under the commander, then four persons from each Company,
to be called regulators, who were to "be diligent in searching for
the most convenient source of water, in forming lanes for the supply
of the engines, and preventing the use of dirty puddle water."

Upon these gentlemen fell the unpleasant
task of "noticing remisness in the members and others and being obliged
to give information to their respective companies whenever such shameful
instances occured to their observation." Trustees were responsible
for the removal of property, and the entire company was obliged to
wear "at times of fire" by way of distinction, black caps with white
fronts with letters thereon designating their company. Moreover these
companies pledged themselves to "respect" the other companies when
their property was in danger from fire, "in preference to persons
who are members of neither."

Doctor Dick stated that he lost his fire bucket at the fire at William Herbert's
house, then occupied by Edmund Edmunds, and the treasurer reimbursed
the good Doctor eighteen shillings on October 24, 1796.
To-day we only touch the surface of a still almost virgin soil.

What constitutes a crowd from the psychological point of view--A numerically strong agglomeration
of individuals does not suffice to form a crowd--Special characteristics of psychological crowds--The
turning in a fixed direction of the ideas and sentiments of individuals composing such a crowd,
and the disappearance of their personality--The crowd is always dominated by considerations
of which it is unconscious--The disappearance of brain activity and the predominance of medullar
activity--The lowering of the intelligence and the complete transformation of the sentiments--The
transformed sentiments may be better or worse than those of the individuals of which the crowd
is composed--A crowd is as easily heroic as criminal.

In its ordinary sense the word "crowd" means a gathering of individuals of whatever nationality,
profession, or sex, and whatever be the chances that have brought them together.  From the
psychological point of view the expression "crowd" assumes quite a different signification.
Under certain given circumstances, and only under those circumstances, an agglomeration of
men presents new characteristics very different from those of the individuals composing it.
The sentiments and ideas of all the persons in the gathering take one and the same direction,
and their conscious personality vanishes.  A collective mind is formed, doubtless transitory,
but presenting very clearly defined characteristics.  The gathering has thus become what, in
the absence of a better expression, I will call an organised crowd, or, if the term is considered
preferable, a psychological crowd.  It forms a single being, and is subjected to the LAW OF
THE MENTAL UNITY OF CROWDS.

It is evident that it is not by the mere fact of a number of individuals finding themselves
accidentally side by side that they acquire the character of an organised crowd.  A thousand
individuals accidentally gathered in a public place without any determined object in no way
constitute a crowd from the psychological point of view.  To acquire the special characteristics
of such a crowd, the influence is necessary of certain predisposing causes of which we shall
have to determine the nature.

The disappearance of conscious personality and the turning of feelings and thoughts in a definite
direction, which are the primary characteristics of a crowd about to become organised, do not
always involve the simultaneous presence of a number of individuals on one spot.  Thousands
of isolated individuals may acquire at certain moments, and under the influence of certain
violent emotions--such, for example, as a great national event--the characteristics of a psychological
crowd.  It will be sufficient in that case that a mere chance should bring them together for
their acts to at once assume the characteristics peculiar to the acts of a crowd.  At certain
moments half a dozen men might constitute a psychological crowd, which may not happen in the
case of hundreds of men gathered together by accident.  On the other hand, an entire nation,
though there may be no visible agglomeration, may become a crowd under the action of certain
influences.

A psychological crowd once constituted, it acquires certain provisional but determinable general
characteristics.  To these general characteristics there are adjoined particular characteristics
which vary according to the elements of which the crowd is composed, and may modify its mental
constitution. Psychological crowds, then, are susceptible of classification; and when we come
to occupy ourselves with this matter, we shall see that a heterogeneous crowd--that is, a crowd
composed of dissimilar elements--presents certain characteristics in common with homogeneous
crowds--that is, with crowds composed of elements more or less akin (sects, castes, and classes)--and
side by side with these common characteristics particularities which permit of the two kinds
of crowds being differentiated.

But before occupying ourselves with the different categories of crowds, we must first of all
examine the characteristics common to them all.  We shall set to work like the naturalist,
who begins by describing the general characteristics common to all the members of a family
before concerning himself with the particular characteristics which allow the differentiation
of the genera and species that the family includes.

It is not easy to describe the mind of crowds with exactness, because its organisation varies
not only according to race and composition, but also according to the nature and intensity
of the exciting causes to which crowds are subjected.  The same difficulty, however, presents
itself in the psychological study of an individual.  It is only in novels that individuals
are found to traverse their whole life with an unvarying character. It is only the uniformity
of the environment that creates the apparent uniformity of characters.  I have shown elsewhere
that all mental constitutions contain possibilities of character which may be manifested in
consequence of a sudden change of environment.  This explains how it was that among the most
savage members of the French Convention were to be found inoffensive citizens who, under ordinary
circumstances, would have been peaceable notaries or virtuous magistrates. During the time I was
with the Germans they treated me with every consideration. Food was scarce, owing to the fact
that the roads were so well shelled by our artillery that their transport
could not come up; but they shared their food with me.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way made me as comfortable as possible.
Being able to speak a little German, I talked to the other wounded,
and found that their papers also published dreadful tales of our treatment
of prisoners, which I am glad to say I was able to refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, A BRITISH OFFICER. December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the last sentences.

Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged
18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed
in the Times of November 19, 1914:

We are treated very well indeed
here.

We have good beds and fires in the rooms, three good meals a day, and a French soldier for a servant,
and this morning I had a splendid hot bath. We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a.m. and 9.45
p.m., and lights out at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard to walk about in. We have a canteen
here where we can buy clothes and anything we want.

Prison fare is very good—new rolls and coffee and fresh butter.

Not bad! I had a very decent guard when
I was coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man tried
to get in to attack me he threw him off the train.

I am
afraid I am out of the firing line until the war ends (worse luck).

I am in no danger of being shot unless I try to bolt, which I shan’t
do.

I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to have me
shot, but luckily nobody seemed to agree with him.

The next time I saw him he had been bandaged up—he was shot through the shoulder—and he dashed
up and shook me by the hand and shouted, “Mein Freund, mein Freund.”

On
November 25 other letters appeared in the Times.

One
was from a cavalry subaltern in a German fortress:

You ask about
money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’s food.

The officers get 16s. a week and buy their own.

Quite sufficient, as it is cheap. I have learnt German fairly quickly
and do interpreter now in the shop for the men, though, I am afraid,
tant mal que bien.

One of the officials here used to be a professor, and is very kind
trying to teach us.

Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs. We have quite good matches.... It
is better not to try to send any public news of any kind from England;
people having been stupid trying to smuggle letters in cakes and things,
and it only makes trouble for everyone.

A Captain writes:

For dinner at 1 p.m. we are given soup, meat and vegetables.... Supper
takes place at 7 o’clock and consists of tea, sausages or meat and
potatoes.... We receive £5 a month as pay, of which 1s.

6d. is deducted for food each day.

We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything we want, ... so
there is no need to send me anything at all, except perhaps those
small 7d. editions of novels.

An English lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich:

I must tell you I had permission to visit a wounded English officer,
a cousin, and I think it would reassure many people at home to know
how warmly he speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him
now for five months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.—(Times,
March 17, 1915.)

Here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J. E. P.
Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to the
Royal Flying Corps:

I met one of the pilots of the German machines
that had attacked us.

He could speak English well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight. I had brought down his machine with my machine-gun, and he had
to land quite close to where I landed. He had a bullet through his radiator
and petrol tank, but neither he nor his observer was touched. I met two German
officers that knew several people that I knew, and they were most
awfully kind to me.

They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters,
etc., and I was treated like an honoured guest. I then came by train
the next day to Mainz, where I was confined in a room by myself for
two days.

I have now been moved into a general room with
eight other English officers, where we sleep and eat.

We are treated very well, and play
hockey and tennis in the prison yard.—(News of the World, February 27, 1916.)

Miss
Colenso gives the following account, which appeared in the Daily
News of June 28, 1918:

A minister friend of mine told me the story
of a young Scottish boy of his acquaintance, now a military prisoner
in Germany—I forget for the moment in which camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’s serious illness and the doctor’s verdict that
she could only live a few weeks. The German Commandant, finding the boy in
great distress, asked him what was the matter, and on learning the
cause of his grief, said: “Would you like to go home to your mother?”
The boy sprang up, exclaiming indignantly, “How can you mock me when
you know it is impossible?” “But you shall go, my boy,” said the commandant.

“I will pay your return fare on condition that you give me your word of
honour to come back here.” The boy went home to Scotland and remained
by his mother’s side for about three weeks till her death, when, true
to his word, he returned to Germany.

The writer of “Under the Clock” considers that “well-attested” stories
of this kind should be given publicity.

It is even more necessary to examine the “attestation” of the other kinds of stories, for all the bias
is against the enemy, and demand is apt to create supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ.

I pass on now to a report made by a United States Official.

The American Consul writes from Leipzig under date of November 16, 1914:
“On Saturday afternoon, the 14th instant, I visited the military concentration
camp near Merseburg, where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned.
The object of my visit was to investigate the claim of a French prisoner
that he is an American subject. The result of my observations regarding the
welfare and humane treatment of the prisoners at large was a surprise
to me.... Separated by nationality, these prisoners are housed in
wooden buildings, well built, ventilated and heated.... They sleep
upon straw mattresses in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as I could
judge, are as well or better housed than labourers upon public works
in the United States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee and
bread. Dinner consists of vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper
they are given bread and coffee. I was informed that many of the prisoners
have some money, and that they are allowed to buy whatever else they
may wish to eat.

If I may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there is evidence in support
of this statement. The prisoners appeared to be in good health and cheerful, many of them engaging
in games and other pastimes.”

The diet described must be frightfully monotonous.

Feeding has throughout been one of the German difficulties. “Germany claims to hold 433,000 prisoners of
war,” wrote an anonymous American journalist (probably in November,
1914); “the housing and feeding of so great a number must be a tremendous
strain upon resources drained by the necessities of war.” The numbers must
now exceed two million.

The Press article referred to [Misc. No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life, and the verminousness
of the men (they were of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz
which he visited. (See, however, the further official reports quoted below
at p. 9). But the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side.
“One hears of battles in which no quarter is granted. There are stories
of one side or the other refusing an armistice to permit the other
to gather its wounded.

Each side is desperately determined to win, and neither is counting the cost. So men must rust in
prison camps until the struggle is over.” The monotony in this case
seems to have been varied by fights between the prisoners of different
nationality, each set considering that the others had not done their
part in the war. We need not be contemptuous about that. The monotony
of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce the maximum degree of
mutual friction.

There is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner of war. To be forced
to remain, day and night, for months and years in idleness, with
a crowd of others, not of one’s own choice is, I believe, one of the
psychological factors which make internment (especially to many civilians)
decidedly worse than imprisonment in a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE AND PACKAGES.

My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints
about the other. Telegram received by American Embassy, London, December
23, 1914, 22nd from Berlin Embassy:

“Foreign Office reports receiving many complaints that money and packages
sent German military and civilian prisoners in enemy countries from
Germany do not reach addresses.

Please secure information for Department to forward German Foreign Office whether
money and other postal matter will be delivered to such prisoners
promptly and intact.—BRYAN, Washington.”

There is no doubt that many
letters and parcels have not reached German prisoners in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.)
In spite of this, I have no doubt that the British authorities have
done their best to expedite delivery.

I would suggest that this is probably the case on the other side, too. We shall indeed later come
upon some definite statements in support of this view. One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels
in Germany has been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M.P. (Daily Mail, November 8, 1916,
and Reprint):

I did not approach this subject quite “new to the game.” I had already
visited general post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere, and had
seen thousands, literally thousands, of food parcels intended for
our prisoners of war in Germany falling to bits and incapable of being
forwarded for want of skilled packing. The sight was enough to make angels
weep.

To think that so much self-sacrifice had been exercised in humble
homes to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken cigarettes,
and what not, in order that these should reach son or brother or sweetheart
in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving hands, that in the
first rough and tumble of the post the paper burst, the string came
undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in an inextricable
jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take
opportunities for mean thefts.

We have all had experience of that during this war, and the following
cutting from the Daily News of October 5, 1915, may be given in illustration:

In
a letter of thanks to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick
and Scotswood workmen, formed for the purpose of sending comforts
to the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says:

I am extremely touched by the
extraordinary generosity and kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood
workmen.

I will take
great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted for
this most handsome contribution. Pray heaven the parcels will escape
thieves and scoundrels who waylaid some of the gifts, and will arrive
in good condition.

If there are, alas, not a few men who will steal from their comrades,
there are not likely to be fewer who will steal from their enemies.

Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on both sides
soon became commendably regular.

The care shown on the German side is warmly praised by Captain Gilbert Nobbs, who remained quite
able to appreciate good deeds even after enduring terrible hardships
and hearing worse stories from others.

The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians. In his book “Englishman,
Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes:

I was very much impressed with the fair and systematic handling of
our parcels, letters and money; even letters and postcards which arrived
for me after I had been sent back to England, were re-addressed and
sent back.

A
remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after I had left was
even returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the pressing
need of the German War Loan.—(Daily News, January 25, 1918.)

An acquaintance of my own, a lecturer in a technical school, spoke
to me to the same effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become quite shattered in transit
(p.p. 7). The Germans transferred the contents to a sack, and, as
he said, the temptation to pilfer the sorely-needed foodstuffs must
have been great. My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation
against disease.

ALTDAMM.

On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp
at Altdamm near Stettin.

The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the camp
at Stargard on which he had reported previously.

“It appears to me that every effort is being made to treat the prisoners
of war as humanely as possible in the two camps I visited. Dry and
warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps monotonous,
but of good material and well prepared, sanitary arrangements are
good, and the health of the men is carefully looked after.”

RUMOURS
V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to
by the German Government, and on February 23, 1915, Sir Edward Grey
wrote to Mr. Page (the American Ambassador in London) complaining
that no definite replies to his questions were forthcoming.

“His Majesty’s Government,” he continues, “have only unofficial information
and rumours on the subject to guide them, which they trust do not
accurately represent the facts.” The “unofficial information and rumours”
had, however, attained wide publicity, and obtained still more later.

The German authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints.

The reports now to be cited were made after this date. [Misc. 11 (1915)].
I propose to give examples of almost all the earlier reports, for
it was in the earlier stages of the war that there was most difficulty
everywhere in providing accommodation for prisoners.

We ought not to forget that the earliest reports on our own camps
which the British Government have published begin with February,
1916.[2]

DŒBERITZ.

On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large
camp with between three and four thousand British prisoners.

“So far as I could ascertain, British soldiers are called upon to
do only their share in fatigue work.... So far as I could ascertain,
after inquiry of a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping
of either incoming or outgoing correspondence.... The camp at Döberitz
is in a healthy location, and the barracks are new and of a permanent
character.... They are at least as good as those used by the Germans
at present in the same neighbourhood.

As was to be
expected a number of men had individual grievances, but there were
no general complaints, except with regard to the German character
of the food—and those were the exact counterparts of complaints made
to me by German prisoners in England.” I have italicised the last
clause as it will surely, to a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat important
one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says:

Until two weeks ago the Russians and English were, in cases, housed
together—a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account
of vermin. The races have now been separated.

The
men all stated that they had the two blankets and the other requisites
provided in the German rules, and I heard but one complaint about
overcrowding.

Most of the English and French receive clothes from home. All the
prisoners who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men
stated that this was carried out according to the rules.

No complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned
officers, or the general government of the camp.

The food was the source of the few real complaints that could be
heard, although at least half of the men spoken to admitted that it
was quite as good as could possibly be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea
that everything that could reasonably be expected was done for the
men by the authorities in charge.

THREE POOR CAMPS.

Mr. Jackson’s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle a/d Saale are
the most unfavourable. They were all small officers’ camps, Burg
containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50 British officers.

There were a few orderlies at each camp.

The chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service for
officers and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were used
for all purposes, there being no special mess or recreation rooms.

There seemed, however, to be no discrimination against the British.

GŒTTINGEN.

Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000 prisoners.
“The Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done everything possible
to make this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great work.

The only complaint is as to the food, the quantity of which, of course, is not under the control of
the Commandant, as he is limited to an expenditure of only 60 pfennigs
(about 7d.) per day per man.

“Everything was in the most beautiful order. There was a very fine steam laundry and drying room, bath rooms,
with hot and cold showers, and the closets, etc., are in a very good
condition and scientifically built.

There is running water and electricity in the camp.

A French barrister of Arras, named Léon Paillet, who was working
with the French Red Cross and who, for some reason or other, has
been made a prisoner, has done marvellous work in organising libraries,
etc.

“I am pleased to say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen
have, from the first, taken an interest in this camp, and Professor
Stange has done much in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y.M.C.A. building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A. C. Harte,
who for a number of years has been working with the Y.M.C.A. in India,
will be a great help to the men in the camp.

“At the opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte,
and Professor Stange, and then each speech was delivered in English
and French by prisoners.

These were followed by short speeches by French, English, and Belgian
prisoners. Then came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp
singing society, followed by songs and recitations by various prisoners.”

Dr.
Ohnesorg reported further on April 22. At that time there were 6,577
prisoners, of whom 1,586 were British. He warmly commends the steam
laundry, the steam disinfecting plant, and the hospital.

“A spirit of contentment pervaded the camp.

The British prisoners were well clothed. I tasted the evening meal, consisting
of a vegetable soup, which was very palatable and, I should say, nourishing....
The citizens of Göttingen have taken a great interest in the camp,
and some of them, notably Professor Stange, of the University, have
given a great deal of their time to the welfare of prisoners and
the formation of classes for study amongst them.”

GERMAN HELP FOR
PRISONERS.

The interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners of war is little
recognised in this country.

The Berlin Committee
(of which more will be said later) has received considerable support.
At the end of June, 1916, a meeting in support of its work was held at
the house of Prince Lichnowsky, former Ambassador in London, who
returned specially from the front to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many notable
men and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection of
8,000 marks (about £400) was made.

COLOGNE.

Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals
in which wounded British prisoners are lying.

He reports
as follows:

These institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered hospitals
that little need be said of their employment or management.

They are provided with all the machinery and paraphernalia usual
to surgical work on a large scale, contain all standard and necessary
conveniences and fittings, afford to patients a maximum of protection
in the matter of sanitation, quiet and relief from preventable irritation,
and are conducted in a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane
way.

The names of the 49 wounded British prisoners are hereunto annexed.

I personally spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them
I conversed privately and without being overheard.

With but one exception
no English-speaking British prisoner had any complaint to make,
and a number of the British prisoners eagerly expressed to me their
appreciation for the care and attention given them.

The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only 21 deaths
have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital No. VI.
since the war began, and the death rate in the other two hospitals
is correspondingly low.

The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable in view of
the many grave injuries treated.

In closing I may say that there is no discrimination or segregation
among the patients and that certain French patients with whom I spoke
expressed, likewise, their appreciation for the care and attention
given them.

  At the same moment a much
more serious reverse undergone by the English expedition to Khartoum produced only a slight
emotion in England, and no ministry was overturned.  Crowds are everywhere distinguished by
feminine characteristics, but Latin crowds are the most feminine of all.  Whoever trusts in
them may rapidly attain a lofty destiny, but to do so is to be perpetually skirting the brink
of a Tarpeian rock, with the certainty of one day being precipitated from it.

2.  THE SUGGESTIBILITY AND CREDULITY OF CROWDS.

When defining crowds, we said that one of their general characteristics was an excessive suggestibility,
and we have shown to what an extent suggestions are contagious in every human agglomeration;
a fact which explains the rapid turning of the sentiments of a crowd in a definite direction.
However indifferent it may be supposed, a crowd, as a rule, is in a state of expectant attention,
which renders suggestion easy.  The first suggestion formulated which arises implants itself
immediately by a process of contagion in the brains of all assembled, and the identical bent
of the sentiments of the crowd is immediately an accomplished fact.

As is the case with all persons under the influence of suggestion, the idea which has entered
the brain tends to transform itself into an act.  Whether the act is that of setting fire to
a palace, or involves self-sacrifice, a crowd lends itself to it with equal facility.  All
will depend on the nature of the exciting cause, and no longer, as in the case of the isolated
individual, on the relations existing between the act suggested and the sum total of the reasons
which may be urged against its realisation.

In consequence, a crowd perpetually hovering on the borderland of unconsciousness, readily
yielding to all suggestions, having all the violence of feeling peculiar to beings who cannot
appeal to the influence of reason, deprived of all critical faculty, cannot be otherwise than
excessively credulous.  The improbable does not exist for a crowd, and it is necessary to bear
this circumstance well in mind to understand the facility with which are created and propagated
the most improbable legends and stories.[3]

[3] Persons who went through the siege of Paris saw numerous examples of this credulity of
crowds.  A candle alight in an upper story was immediately looked upon as a signal given the
besiegers, although it was evident, after a moment of reflection, that it was utterly impossible
to catch sight of the light of the candle at a distance of several miles.

The creation of the legends which so easily obtain circulation in crowds is not solely the
consequence of their extreme credulity. It is also the result of the prodigious perversions
that events undergo in the imagination of a throng.  The simplest event that comes under the
observation of a crowd is soon totally transformed.  A crowd thinks in images, and the image
itself immediately calls up a series of other images, having no logical connection with the
first.  We can easily conceive this state by thinking of the fantastic succession of ideas
to which we are sometimes led by calling up in our minds any fact.  Our reason shows us the
incoherence there is in these images, but a crowd is almost blind to this truth, and confuses
with the real event what the deforming action of its imagination has superimposed thereon.
A crowd scarcely distinguishes between the subjective and the objective.  It accepts as real
the images evoked in its mind, though they most often have only a very distant relation with
the observed fact.

The ways in which a crowd perverts any event of which it is a witness ought, it would seem,
to be innumerable and unlike each other, since the individuals composing the gathering are
of very different temperaments.  But this is not the case.  As the result of contagion the
perversions are of the same kind, and take the same shape in the case of all the assembled
individuals. 

The upper part of 8 young cotyledons of Phalaris were made rigid by being
cemented to thin glass rods, so that this part could not bend in the
least; nevertheless, the basal part was not prevented from curving
upward.

A stem or other organ which bends upwards through apogeotropism exerts
considerable force; its own weight, which has of course to be lifted,
was sufficient in almost every instance to cause the part at first
to bend a little downwards; but the downward course was often rendered
oblique by the simultaneous circumnutating movement.

The cotyledons of Avena placed horizontally, besides lifting their own
weight, were able to furrow the soft sand above them, so as to leave
little crescentic open spaces on the lower sides of their bases; and
this is a remarkable proof of the force exerted.

As the tips of the cotyledons of Phalaris and Avena bend upwards through
the action of apogeotropism before the basal part, and as these same
tips when excited by a lateral light transmit some influence to the
lower part, causing it to bend, we thought that the same rule might
hold good with apogeotropism.

Consequently, the tips of 7 cotyledons of Phalaris were [page 512]
cut off for a length in three cases of .2 inch and in the four other
cases of .14, .12, .1, and .07 inch.

But these cotyledons, after being extended horizontally, bowed themselves
upwards as effectually as the unmutilated specimens in the same pots,
showing that sensitiveness to gravitation is not confined to their
tips.

GEOTROPISM.

This movement is directly the reverse of apogeotropism.

Many organs bend downwards through epinasty or apheliotropism or from their own
weight; but we have met with very few cases of a downward movement
in sub-aërial organs due to geotropism.

We
shall however, give one good instance in the following section, in the case
of Trifolium subterraneum, and probably in that of Arachis hypogaea.

On
the other hand, all roots which penetrate the ground (including the modified
root-like petioles of Megarrhiza and Ipomoea leptophylla) are guided
in their downward course by geotropism; and so are many aërial roots,
whilst others, as those of the Ivy, appear to be indifferent to its
action.

In our first chapter the movements of the radicles of several seedlings were described. We may there
see (Fig. 1) how a radicle of the cabbage, when pointing vertically upwards so as to be very little
acted on by geotropism, circumnutated; and how another (Fig. 2) which
was at first placed in an inclined position bowed itself downwards
in a zigzag line, sometimes remaining stationary for a time.

Two other radicles of the cabbage travelled downwards in almost rectilinear
courses.

A radicle of the bean placed upright (Fig. 20) made a great sweep and
zigzagged; but as it sank downwards and was more strongly acted on
by geotropism, it moved in an [page 513] almost straight course.

A radicle of Cucurbita, directed upwards (Fig. 26), also zigzagged at first, and described small
loops; it then moved in a straight line.

Nearly the same result was observed with the radicles of Zea mays.

But the best evidence of the intimate connection between circumnutation and geotropism was afforded by
the radicles of Phaseolus, Vicia, and Quercus, and in a less degree
by those of Zea and Aesculus (see Figs.

18, 19, 21, 41, and 52);
for when these were compelled to grow and slide down highly inclined
surfaces of smoked glass, they left distinctly serpentine tracks.  Mr. Davey, having convoked
a gathering of distinguished observers, among them one of the most prominent of English scientific
men, Mr. Wallace, executed in their presence, and after having allowed them to examine the
objects and to place seals where they wished, all the regulation spiritualistic phenomena,
the materialisation of spirits, writing on slates, &c.  Having subsequently obtained from these
distinguished observers written reports admitting that the phenomena observed could only have
been obtained by supernatural means, he revealed to them that they were the result of very
simple tricks.  "The most astonishing feature of Monsieur Davey's investigation," writes the
author of this account, "is not the marvellousness of the tricks themselves, but the extreme
weakness of the reports made with respect to them by the noninitiated witnesses.  It is clear,
then," he says, "that witnesses even in number may give circumstantial relations which are
completely erroneous, but whose result is THAT, IF THEIR DESCRIPTIONS ARE ACCEPTED AS EXACT,
the phenomena they describe are inexplicable by trickery.  The methods invented by Mr. Davey
were so simple that one is astonished that he should have had the boldness to employ them;
but he had such a power over the mind of the crowd that he could persuade it that it saw what
it did not see." CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy man, the
curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the mountains
of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia, Diocese
of Metz. In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight
o'clock in the morning, he being in his kitchen, with his niece and
the servant, he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on the
ground turn round three or four times, without its being set in motion
by any one.

A moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the next room into the same kitchen,
in presence of the same persons, without their seeing the hand which threw it. The next day, at nine
o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass were broken, and through these
panes were thrown some stones, with what appeared to them supernatural
dexterity. The spirit never hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night
time, but always during the day.

The curé employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his house,
and thenceforth the genius broke no more panes of glass; but he continued
to throw stones at the curé's people, without hurting them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the
bucket; and afterwards he began to serve in the kitchen.

One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled them up as fast as she planted
them, and laid them in a heap. It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the German
style; the genius continued to play his tricks.

One day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade
was found thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any trace
being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that
on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two
soles, which the girl had locked up the evening before in a little
box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter,
and putting it either all round the kitchen, or in the porch, or even
in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight.

One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees, and, having put some water
in it, carried it to the ally or walk in the garden; another time
he suspended it to the pot-hook over the fire.

The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's
supper, the genius broke two more into it in his presence, the maid
having merely turned to get some salt.

The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware, furniture, linen, bread,
milk, and other things scattered about over the house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one
time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in a moment,
before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place,
and told him he was resolved to quit the parsonage house.

Whilst this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that
the genius had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money in
a hole in the ground.

They went there, and found things exactly as she had said.

They picked up the money, which what the curé had put away in a place
not locked up; and in a moment after they found it anew, with some liards,
two by two, scattered about the kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to
the curé's house, and persuaded him that it was all the effect of
a spell; they told him to take two pistols, and fire them off at the
place where he might observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these
officers two pieces of silver; and from that time he was no longer
perceived in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which the elf
had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had
had credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled
the curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house,
what had he to fear from any pistol shot which might have been fired
at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?

I have been told several times that a monk of the Cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these
signs, and he always arrived.

It is affirmed of another monk of the same order that he had a familiar
spirit, who warned him, not only of what passed in the house, but
also of what happened out of it; and one day he was awakened three
times, and warned that some monks were quarreling, and were ready
to come to blows; he ran to the spot, and put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus[284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons
and false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from
them many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not
thought proper to be present, but the decisions of which he desired
to know, being in a boat with St. Sulpicius, but apart from others,
as usual with him, an angel appeared, and informed him what had passed
in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held, and it was found to be at the same hour
at which the angel had appeared to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room
and his clothes.

One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard him talking with
some one; he entered, and asked who he was conversing with.

The youth affirmed that there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the
superior could neither see nor discover any one there. Nevertheless,
as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned that for
some years he had been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered
him every service that a domestic could have done, and had promised
him great advantages in the ecclesiastical profession.

The superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said. He ordered the genius to set a chair
for the superior; the genius obeyed.

Information of this was sent to the archbishop, who did not think proper to give it publicity. The young
clerk was sent away, and this singular adventure was buried in silence.

Bodin[285]

speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living at the time he wrote, which was in 1588.
This person had a familiar who from the age of thirty-seven had given
him good advice respecting his conduct, sometimes to correct his faults,
sometimes to make him practice virtue, or to assist him; resolving
the difficulties which he might find in reading holy books, or giving
him good counsel upon his own affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning
to awaken him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing that
it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad day,
striking gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench. When he desired
to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched his right ear;
but if it was anything wrong and dangerous, he touched his left ear;
so that from that time nothing occurred to him of which he was not
warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in
imminent danger, he saw his genius, under the form of a child of extraordinary
beauty, who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris,[286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had
a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented
him from sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off
the bed-clothes, or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened
to him in the open country, and in the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled
at, and his hat thrown down; then he heard the bursts of laughter
and the voice of a person deceased and well known to him, who seemed
to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams, or otherwise,
can hardly be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits. A man
who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise, senior,
a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words,
which he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote down
in French characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén apsychian."

He asked him what that meant. M. de Saumaise told him it meant, "Save
yourself; do you not perceive the death with which you are threatened?"
Upon this hint, the man removed, and left his house, which fell down the
following night.[287]

The same story is related, with a little difference, by another author,
who says that the circumstance happened at Paris;[288] that the
genius spoke in Syriac, and that M. de Saumaise being consulted,
replied, "Go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day,
at nine o'clock in the evening."

It is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to add
a few circumstances by way of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going
one day to Nismes, with one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the
latter, having heard Peiresch talking in his sleep in the night, waked
him, and asked him what he said.

Peiresch
answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered
me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as
I was going to count him down his money, you waked me, to my great
regret."

They arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized
the goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him if he had
nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal, or coin,
of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch
asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch
paid them, and was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished.

Here
is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a little
in the same style.[289] A learned man of Dijon, after having wearied himself
all day with an important passage in a Greek poet, without being
able to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm,
introduced him into the palace of Queen Christina, conducted him
into the library, and showed him a small volume, which was precisely
what he sought.

He opened it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely
cleared up the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and wrote
down the verses he had seen at Stockholm. On the morrow, he wrote to
M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and begged of him to look in
such a place, and in such a division of the library, if the book,
of which he sent him the description, were there, and if the Greek
verses which he sent him were to be read in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also
the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one of his
friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would send it
him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of
Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but did
not lead him to do others.

It is asserted[290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army,
commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying like the others, with this Athenian
general, and being arrived at a spot where several roads met, Socrates
would not follow the road taken by the other fugitives; and when they
asked him the reason, he replied, because his genius drew him away
from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other road were either killed or made
prisoners by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful whether the elves, of which so many things are related,
are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church admits nothing
between these two kinds of genii.

Every genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says,[291]
and as there are among the blessed, various degrees of glory, differing
from each other, so we may believe that there are in hell various
degrees of pain and punishment for the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible,
and divert themselves in disquieting the living?

Why do they attach themselves to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to others? Why do they make
themselves perceptible only during a certain time, and that sometimes a short space?

I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy and
prejudice; but their reality has been so often experienced by the
discourse they have held, and the actions they have performed in
the presence of many wise and enlightened persons, that I cannot
persuade myself that among the great number of stories related of
them there are not at least some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good, to
prayer, or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions.
If they do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments
of the damned, on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt
not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may be perceived,
it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us. All those to whom these genii attach themselves have a horror of
them, mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that these familiar
demons do not lead them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves
from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me,
"I no more doubt the truth of than if I had been a witness of it."

Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers,
was in winter quarters in Flanders. One of his men came to him one day
to beg that he would change his landlord, saying that every night there
came into his bed-room a spirit, which would not allow him to sleep.
The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity.

Some days after, the same horseman came back and made the same request
to him; the only reply of the captain would have been a volley of
blows with a stick, had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight.

At last, he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to his
captain that he could bear it no longer, and should be obliged to
desert if his lodgings were not changed.

Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said
to him, with an oath, "I will go this night and sleep with you, and
see what is the matter."

At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table, he
lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a
moment turned the bed upside down, covering the captain and the soldier
with the mattress and paillasse.

Despilliers had great trouble to disengage himself and find again
his sword and pistols, and he returned home much confounded.

The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly in the house of his new host.

M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen to
it.

He was an intrepid man, who had never known what it was to fall back before
danger. He died field-marshal of the armies of the Emperor Charles VI.
and governor of the fortress of Ségedin. His son has confirmed this
adventure to me within a short time, as having heard it from his father.

The
person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes
return; but I have found myself in a great many places which it was
said they haunted.

I have even tried several times to see them, but I have never seen any.
I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who all
said they saw the spirit; I was the only one in the assembly who saw
nothing."

So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same
letter wherein he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes:

[284] St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. ii. c. 2.

[286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8.

[287] Grot. Epist. Part. ii.

Ep. 405.

[288] They affirm that it happened at Dijon, in the family of the
MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory
of the circumstance.

[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p. 55.

[290] Cicero, de Divinat. lib. i.

[291] John xiv. 2.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH OVER TREASURE.

Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches buried in the
earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the
demon, whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon,
the Pluto of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian,
of these treasures.

We know also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures
in the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them
in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them in
those gloomy places.

Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom, when
he says,[293] "Would to God I had never been born: I should now sleep
with the kings and great ones of the earth, who built themselves solitary
places; like unto those who seek for treasure, and are rejoiced when
they find a tomb;" doubtless because they hope to find great riches
therein.

There were very precious things in the tomb of Cyrus.

  It is fortunate for the progress of civilisation that the power of crowds only
began to exist when the great discoveries of science and industry had already been effected.

5. THE MORALITY OF CROWDS.

Taking the word "morality" to mean constant respect for certain social conventions, and the
permanent repression of selfish impulses, it is quite evident that crowds are too impulsive
and too mobile to be moral.  If, however, we include in the term morality the transitory display
of certain qualities such as abnegation, self-sacrifice, disinterestedness, devotion, and the
need of equity, we may say, on the contrary, that crowds may exhibit at times a very lofty
morality.

The few psychologists who have studied crowds have only considered them from the point of view
of their criminal acts, and noticing how frequent these acts are, they have come to the conclusion
that the moral standard of crowds is very low.

Doubtless this is often the case; but why?  Simply because our savage, destructive instincts
are the inheritance left dormant in all of us from the primitive ages.  In the life of the
isolated individual it would be dangerous for him to gratify these instincts, while his absorption
in an irresponsible crowd, in which in consequence he is assured of impunity, gives him entire
liberty to follow them.  Being unable, in the ordinary course of events, to exercise these
destructive instincts on our fellow- men, we confine ourselves to exercising them on animals.
The passion, so widespread, for the chase and the acts of ferocity of crowds proceed from one
and the same source.  A crowd which slowly slaughters a defenceless victim displays a very
cowardly ferocity; but for the philosopher this ferocity is very closely related to that of
the huntsmen who gather in dozens for the pleasure of taking part in the pursuit and killing
of a luckless stag by their hounds.

A crowd may be guilty of murder, incendiarism, and every kind of crime, but it is also capable
of very lofty acts of devotion, sacrifice, and disinterestedness, of acts much loftier indeed
than those of which the isolated individual is capable.  Appeals to sentiments of glory, honour,
and patriotism are particularly likely to influence the individual forming part of a crowd,
and often to the extent of obtaining from him the sacrifice of his life.  History is rich in
examples analogous to those furnished by the Crusaders and the volunteers of 1793.  Collectivities
alone are capable of great disinterestedness and great devotion. How numerous are the crowds
that have heroically faced death for beliefs, ideas, and phrases that they scarcely understood!
The crowds that go on strike do so far more in obedience to an order than to obtain an increase
of the slender salary with which they make shift.  Personal interest is very rarely a powerful
motive force with crowds, while it is almost the exclusive motive of the conduct of the isolated
individual.  It is assuredly not self-interest that has guided crowds in so many wars, incomprehensible
as a rule to their intelligence--wars in which they have allowed themselves to be massacred
as easily as the larks hypnotised by the mirror of the hunter.

Even in the case of absolute scoundrels it often happens that the mere fact of their being
in a crowd endows them for the moment with very strict principles of morality.  Taine calls
attention to the fact that the perpetrators of the September massacres deposited on the table
of the committees the pocket-books and jewels they had found on their victims, and with which
they could easily have been able to make away.  The howling, swarming, ragged crowd which invaded
the Tuileries during the revolution of 1848 did not lay hands on any of the objects that excited
its astonishment, and one of which would have meant bread for many days.

This moralisation of the individual by the crowd is not certainly a constant rule, but it is
a rule frequently observed.  It is even observed in circumstances much less grave than those
I have just cited.  I have remarked that in the theatre a crowd exacts from the hero of the
piece exaggerated virtues, and it is a commonplace observation that an assembly, even though
composed of inferior elements, shows itself as a rule very prudish.  The debauchee, the souteneur,
the rough often break out into murmurs at a slightly risky scene or expression, though they
be very harmless in comparison with their customary conversation.

If, then, crowds often abandon themselves to low instincts, they also set the example at times
of acts of lofty morality.  If disinterestedness, resignation, and absolute devotion to a real
or chimerical ideal are moral virtues, it may be said that crowds often possess these virtues
to a degree rarely attained by the wisest philosophers.  Doubtless they practice them unconsciously,
but that is of small import.  We should not complain too much that crowds are more especially
guided by unconscious considerations and are not given to reasoning.  Had they, in certain
cases, reasoned and consulted their immediate interests, it is possible that no civilisation
would have grown up on our planet and humanity would have had no history.

CHAPTER III

THE IDEAS, REASONING POWER, AND IMAGINATION OF CROWDS

1. THE IDEAS OF CROWDS.  Fundamental and accessory ideas--How contradictory ideas may exist
simultaneously--The transformation that must be undergone by lofty ideas before they are accessible
to crowds-- The social influence of ideas is independent of the degree of truth they may contain.
2. THE REASONING POWER OF CROWDS.  Crowds are not to be influenced by reasoning--The reasoning
of crowds is always of a very inferior order--There is only the appearance of analogy or succession
in the ideas they associate.   3. THE IMAGINATION OF CROWDS. Strength of the imagination of
crowds--Crowds think in images, and these images succeed each other without any connecting
link--Crowds are especially impressed by the marvellous--Legends and the marvellous are the
real pillars of civilisation--The popular imagination has always been the basis of the power
of statesmen--The manner in which facts capable of striking the imagination of crowds present
themselves for observation.

1. THE IDEAS OF CROWDS

WHEN studying in a preceding work the part played by ideas in the evolution of nations, we
showed that every civilisation is the outcome of a small number of fundamental ideas that are
very rarely renewed. Jackson in his agitation thought he read in the glance a knowledge of his purpose
and a disapprobation of it. Struck by the incident, he turned back, and, after a moment's reflection,
resolved on offering himself as a volunteer in the first battalion
of the 71st regiment (Sutherland Highlanders), then in cantonment
near New York.

Arriving at the place, he presented himself to the notice of Lieutenant-Colonel
(afterwards Sir Archibald) Campbell, who, having first ascertained
that he was a Scotsman, inquired to whom he was known at New York.

Jackson replied, to no one; but that a fellow-passenger from Jamaica would readily testify to his being
a gentleman.

'I require no testimony to your being a gentleman,' returned the kind-hearted
colonel. 'Your countenance and address satisfy me on that head. I will
receive you into the regiment with pleasure; but then I have to inform
you, Mr Jackson, that there are seventeen on the list before you, who
are of course entitled to prior promotion.' The next day, at the instance
of Colonel Campbell, the regimental-surgeon, Dr Stuart, appointed
Jackson acting hospital or surgeon's mate--a rank now happily abolished
in the British army; for those who filled it, whatever might be their
competency or skill, were accounted and treated no better than drudges.

Although discharging the duties that now devolve on the assistant-surgeon,
they were not, like him, commissioned, but only warrant-officers,
and therefore had no title to half-pay.

Dr Stuart, who appears to have been a man superior to vulgar prejudice,
and to have appreciated at once the extent of Jackson's acquirements
and the vigour of his intellect, relinquished to him, almost without
control, the charge of the regimental hospital.

Here it was that this able young officer began to put in practice that
amended system of army medical treatment which since his time, but in
conformity with his teachings, has been so successfully carried out
as to reduce the mortality amongst our soldiery from what it formerly
was--something like 15 per cent.--to what it is now, about 2-1/2 per
cent.

In the army hospitals, at the period Jackson commenced a career
that was to eventuate so gloriously, there was no regulated system
of diet, no classification of the sick.

What are now well known as 'medical comforts,' were things unheard of;
the sick soldier, like the healthy soldier, had his ration of salt-beef or pork,
and his allowance of rum. The hospital furnished him with no bedding;
he must bring his own blanket. Any place would do for an hospital. That
in which Jackson began his labours had originally been a commissary's
store; but happily its roof was water-tight--an unusual occurrence--and
its site being in close proximity to a wood, our active surgeon's
mate managed, by the aid of a common fatigue party, to surround the
walls with wicker-work platforms, which served the patients as tolerably
comfortable couches.

A further
and still more important change he effected related to the article
of diet. He suggested, and the suggestion was adopted--honour to the
courageous humanity which did not shrink from so righteous an innovation!--that
instead of his salt ration and spirits, which he could not consume,
the sick soldier should be supplied with fresh meat, broth, &c.; and
that, as the quantity required for the invalid would be necessarily
small, the quarter-master should allow the saving on the commuted
ration to be expended in the common market on other comforts, such
as sago, &c. suitable for the patient.

Thus proper hospital diet was furnished, without entailing any additional
expense on the state.[2]

Indefatigable in the discharge of his interesting duties, Mr Jackson
speedily obtained the confidence of his military superiors, who remarked
with admiration not only his intelligent zeal in performing his hospital
functions, but his calmness, quickness of perception, and generous
self-devotion when in the field of battle.

 These modifications
are dependent on the nature of the crowds, or of the race to which the crowds belong, but their
tendency is always belittling and in the direction of simplification.  This explains the fact
that, from the social point of view, there is in reality scarcely any such thing as a hierarchy
of ideas--that is to say, as ideas of greater or less elevation.  However great or true an
idea may have been to begin with, it is deprived of almost all that which constituted its elevation
and its greatness by the mere fact that it has come within the intellectual range of crowds
and exerts an influence upon them.

Moreover, from the social point of view the hierarchical value of an idea, its intrinsic worth,
is without importance.  The necessary point to consider is the effects it produces.  The Christian
ideas of the Middle Ages, the democratic ideas of the last century, or the social ideas of
to-day are assuredly not very elevated.  Philosophically considered, they can only be regarded
as somewhat sorry errors, and yet their power has been and will be immense, and they will count
for a long time to come among the most essential factors that determine the conduct of States.

Even when an idea has undergone the transformations which render it accessible to crowds, it
only exerts influence when, by various processes which we shall examine elsewhere, it has entered
the domain of the unconscious, when indeed it has become a sentiment, for which much time is
required.

For it must not be supposed that merely because the justness of an idea has been proved it
can be productive of effective action even on cultivated minds.  This fact may be quickly appreciated
by noting how slight is the influence of the clearest demonstration on the majority of men.
Evidence, if it be very plain, may be accepted by an educated person, but the convert will
be quickly brought back by his unconscious self to his original conceptions.  See him again
after the lapse of a few days and he will put forward afresh his old arguments in exactly the
same terms. When his will was opened, it was by the side of Sarah he wished to be buried: "As to my
Body, I desire it may be interred under the Tombstone in the enclosed
ground in the Presbyterian Yard near where my first wife and children
are interred."[76]

This house was the social and political center
of Alexandria.

Such men as Charles Carroll, Aaron Burr, John
Paul Jones, John Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, George Mason, George
Washington, and the two Fairfaxes are but a few of those who gathered
here for good food, good wine, and better talk.

Any visitor of importance was entertained at "coffee"; the house was often filled with music, and
"balls" were common.

The "Congress of Alexandria" met here Monday, April 14, 1755, and on the following Tuesday and Wednesday,
when with Braddock and the five colonial governors plans were made
for concerted action against the French and Indians.

Here that famous letter, still in existence, was written, urging
upon the British government the necessity of taxing the colonies.
This letter set into movement a chain of events disastrous to the mother
country.

It resulted in the loathed Stamp Act and led ultimately to the Revolution
of 1775.

Carlyle was appointed collector of His Majesty's customs on the South Potomac
in 1758, succeeding his father-in-law, William Fairfax.

In 1762 he was importing race horses into the colony. These were imported, "just
as they imported Madeira wine and other luxuries." One of the early
Maryland gazettes of July 29, 1762 carries the following advertisement:

Imported
by Carlyle & Dalton in the ship Christian, Captain Stanly, and for
sale, three horses [Thorne's Starling: Smith's Hero, and Leary's Old
England] and three mares [the other two being the Rock-mares Nos.

1 and 2] of full blood, viz: A ch. m. with a star and two white heels behind,
eight years old: Got by Wilson's Chestnut Arabian: her dam by Slipby, brother
to Snap's dam; and out of Menil [sic] the dam of Trunnion.

Menil was got by Partner: out of Sampson's-Sister, which was got by
Greyhound: her grandam by Curwen's Bay Barb: her g. grandam by Ld. D'Arcy's
Arabian: her dam by Whiteshirt: out of a famous mare of Ld.

Montagu's.

JOHN CARLYLE[77]

Alexandria, Va., July 1762.

In 1772
Carlyle took over the incompleted work on Christ Church and carried
it to completion.

In 1773 he bought pew No. 19.

In 1774 he built the Presbyterian meetinghouse. In between times he was hunting
at Belvoir and Mount Vernon, dancing at Alexandria assemblies, sitting
as town trustee and gentleman justice, journeying to England and back,
laying out and planting his garden, taking part in long, hot arguments
with his family and neighbors in the ever-widening breach between
the colonies and the mother country, breeding race horses, and joining
in the frolics of the Jockey Club.

Heir to a title old and honorable as it was, he ardently espoused the cause of the colonies. Too ill
for active military service, he nevertheless served as a member of the Committee of Safety until his
death in 1780, at the age of sixty.

John Carlyle divided his lands, named after the Scottish family holdings,
Limkiln, Bridekirk, Torthorwald Taken, between his two grandsons,
Carlyle Fairfax Whiting and John Carlyle Herbert.

To his daughter, Sarah Herbert, he left thirty feet on Fairfax Street
and one hundred feet on Cameron Street, to include his dryware house.

The mansion and all other property were for a brief period the property
of his only son.

In his will he expressed the utmost concern for the education of this boy,
George William Carlyle, and urged his executors to spare no expense and to
send him to the best schools.

Alas, for the plans of men! The lad, fired by the talk of father and
friends, was serving in Lee's Legion in 1781, and ere John Carlyle
was moldering in his grave this boy of seventeen years, spirited,
brave, heir to large estates, great fortune and honorable name, and
to the title of Lord Carlyle, was dead at Eutaw Springs, led by that
boy hardly older than himself "Light Horse Harry"

Lee.

Enough of serious and sad history; let us in lighter vein go once more
into the lovely paneled blue room where not only weighty conferences
occurred, but where, in lace and satin, noble figures threw aside
the cares of state and trod a measure to the tinkling of the spinet;
where games of cards were indulged in and the pistoles changed hands.

Let us go into the dining room with its fine Adam mantel and its
mahogany doors, and visualize again the terrapin and the canvasback,
the Madeira and Port so abundantly provided from that great kitchen
below, and the most famous wine cellar of its day in Alexandria.

Let us stroll in the still lovely garden where the aroma of box and honeysuckle
mingle, and turn our thoughts once more to the inmates of this fine, old house.
Built in the days when Virginia was a man's world, when men who
wore satin, velvet and damask were masters of the art of fighting,
riding, drinking, eating, and wooing.

When a man knew what he wanted, and got it by God's help and his
own tenacity, enjoying himself right lustily in the getting.

Perchance Major John Carlyle, clad in Saxon green laced with silver,
will be wandering up and down his box-bordered paths with his first love,
Sarah Fairfax, watching the moon light up the rigging of Carlyle
& Dalton's great ships at anchor just at the foot of the garden.

Chapter 3

The Married Houses

[209-211 North Fairfax Street. Owner: Mrs. Herbert E. Marshburn.]

When the new town of Alexandria was laid out, John Dalton purchased,
on July 13, 1749, the first lot put up for sale (No. 36) for the sum
of nineteen pistoles.

The lot faced the Potomac River and was bounded by Water (now Lee) Street,
Fairfax Street and lot No. 37. When the latter lot, which lay on Cameron
and Fairfax, was put up later in the day, it was purchased by Dalton
for sixteen pistoles.

Within three years Dalton had finished a small frame-and-brick cottage,
neatly paneled, in which he is purported to have lived and died. The
house faced on Cameron Street, standing about the middle of lot No. 37,
with an extensive garden running the depth of the premises to the
river, surrounded by outbuildings, orchards, wells, and so on, as
was the custom of the times.

His will mentioned the fact that he lived on this lot and left to
his daughter, Jenny Dalton (later Mrs. Thomas Herbert), his new brick
building on the corner of Fairfax and Cameron.

His will further stated that the house must be finished out of his
estate.

To his daughter, Catherine (later Mrs. William Bird), he left the
remainder of the lot which included his dwelling and another house
on that same lot, at the time occupied by John Page.

On February 27, 1750, John Dalton succeeded Richard Osborn as a trustee
of the town.

His appointment was the first after the original selection of trustees by the assembly in Williamsburg.

John Dalton was a partner of John Carlyle in the firm of Carlyle &
Dalton, which for many years acted as agent for the Mount Vernon produce.

He was a pew owner with George Washington at Christ Church, which he served
as vestryman.

With his wife and daughter, he was a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon
and a later chronicler has asserted that he barely missed becoming
the General's father-in-law. A fox-hunter and horse-lover, in a company
of Alexandria gentlemen or alone, he hunted with Washington and bred
his mares to the blooded Mount Vernon stud.

On January 12, 1769, Washington went up to Alexandria to "ye Monthly Ball." He lodged with Captain Dalton
and the next day being very bad he was "confined there till afternoon by rain."[78] Sometimes when attending
court he "lodged at Captn.

Dalton's."[79]

John Dalton's bequest to his daughter, Catherine, included the home
place.

On April 24, 1793, Catherine and her husband, William Bird, sold to
Jonah Thompson and David Findley for £1,500 (about $7,500) the property
described as being in Fairfax Street, 60 feet to the north of Cameron,
and extending north upon Fairfax Street 119 feet 3 inches to the line
of Herbert, Potts and Wilson, thence East parallel to Cameron to cross
Water and Union Streets into the Potomac River, thence with a line
parallel to Fairfax south 119 feet 3 inches, and included houses,
buildings, streets, lanes, alleys, and so on.

But
the Birds reserved the right to the "use and occupation of the dwelling
House now occupied" and the kitchen and garden, until the "1st day
of October next" and also reserved unto Lanty Crowe the house "demised
unto him to the end of his term, he paying the annual rent thereof
unto the said Jonah Thompson and David Findley."[80] Findley died
within the year and Jonah Thompson bought from Amelia Findley, the
mother and heir of David Findley, equal and undivided portion of the
already described lot and paid her the sum of £500 12s.

Jonah Thompson was an important citizen of Alexandria. He was a shipping
merchant, banker and large property owner. He married Margaret Peyton
and they had three sons, Israel, William Edward, and James; a daughter,
Mary Ann, married a Mr. Popham, and another daughter, Eugenia, married
a Mr. Morgan.

In 1809 Jonah Thompson mortgaged this property to the Bank of Alexandria for $13,500, which he paid
within four years.

In May 1850, the heirs of Jonah Thompson sold to Benjamin Hallowell
for $4,600 a lot beginning at the south side of the alley which divided
the block, running south 43 feet 7 inches.

Benjamin Hallowell, in turn, sold to James S. Hallowell for nine thousand
dollars in April 1854, and from James S. Hallowell and his wife the property
passed through various hands until it became St. Mary's Academy.

The Jonah Thompson house, part of it at least already built in 1793, is
one of the most interesting houses to be found anywhere. It is unusually
large and has two handsome arched stone entrances. One, although
similar, obviously was added, as the line of demarcation is plainly
visible between the bricks.

The house has been sadly abused with no thought given its architectural
merits and much of the woodwork has been removed. The stair is perhaps
the finest in Alexandria, with spindles and risers carved in a more
elaborate fashion than was the practice of the thrifty Scotsmen of
Alexandria. At the rear of this large house, separated only by a narrow
area, stands another house, facing the long garden and originally
the river.

The front of this house boasts the loveliest bit of Georgian architecture left in the old seaport.
A pure Adam loggia, executed in stone, runs across the garden façade.

While arches are now filled in and clothes hung to dry flap on the
gallery, the outline is so chaste in its classic form that nothing
can destroy the illusion of beauty.

No search of records reveals how or why these two houses stand back
to back.

Whether Jonah Thompson built the first for his bank or business offices,
or whether his family outgrew the house and he needed more room is not
known.

The two are treated as one house in all the documentary evidence, and one's curiosity, interest, and imagination
are excited by the twin or married houses. One story has it that Jonah Thompson built the rear
or twin house for his eldest son so that the two families might be
together but with separate ménages.

Captain John Dalton forged a link between Mount Vernon, his family, and his posterity that was stronger
than he knew.

It was his granddaughter who was so deeply distressed at the ruin and desolation of the home of Washington
that she fired her daughter's imagination with an idea that saved
the spot for the nation.

This great-granddaughter of John Dalton was Ann Pamela Cunningham, whose name will ever be indissolubly
connected with Mount Vernon. In 1853 she formed the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association, and as its
first regent stirred the women of America with her ardor and directed
the entire campaign until adequate funds were collected.

In 1859 John Augustine Washington sold the Mount Vernon estate to Miss Cunningham
for two hundred thousand dollars--after the Virginia Legislature
and the federal government had both refused to acquire it.

This sale was negotiated by the Alexandria banker, John W. Burke,
who was appointed executor and guardian of John Augustine Washington's
estate after he was killed during the Civil War while on active duty
as a member of General Robert E. Lee's staff.

When the war broke out, Alexandria was occupied by Union troops. The Union authorities
knew of the sale of Mount Vernon and repeated but futile efforts were
made to find the securities. Mr. Burke's home was searched no less
than three times. The funds were never found in their hiding place
of the soiled-clothes basket.

There they reposed until Mrs. Burke (née Trist, great-granddaughter of Thomas Jefferson)
and Mrs. Upton Herbert (née Tracy), both Philadelphia-born ladies,
sewed the bonds in their petticoats and with high heads carried them
through the Union lines to Washington and delivered them to George
W. Riggs, who held them for the duration of the war, when he returned
them to Alexandria--and Mr. Burke.

An interesting sequel to the story occurred only a short time ago
when the last of John Augustine Washington's children died. Mr. Taylor
Burke, grandson of John W. Burke, and president of the Burke & Herbert
Bank, administered the estate of the late Mrs. Eleanor Washington
Howard, and distributed her estate, composed of the remainder of that
purchase price, among her heirs.[81]

Chapter 4

The Fairfaxes of
Belvoir and Alexandria

Of the families in Virginia closely associated
with George Washington, none bore so intimate a relation as that of
Fairfax.

William
Fairfax, founder of the Virginia branch of the family, was born in 1691
in Towlston in Yorkshire, England, the son of the Honorable Henry Fairfax,
Sheriff of Yorkshire, and grandson of the Fourth Lord Fairfax.

Educated as a member of the governing classes, he began his career in the navy, later
entering the colonial service. Before he was twenty-six he had acted
as chief justice of the Bahamas and Governor of the Isle of Providence.

Prior to 1717 he married Sarah Walker of Nassau, daughter of Colonel
Walker, by whom he had four children, George William, Thomas, Anne, and
Sarah. In 1729, Colonel Fairfax was appointed Collector of the Port
of Salem, Massachusetts, and removed to that colony.

In 1731 his wife died, and very shortly afterward he married Deborah,
widow of Francis Clarke and daughter of Colonel Bartholomew Gedney
of Salem, by whom he had three children, Bryan, William Henry, and
Hannah.

In 1734 Fairfax came to Virginia as agent for his first cousin, Thomas,
Sixth Lord Fairfax (who, by direct inheritance from a royal grant of Charles
II, had come into possession of some five million acres of Virginia
land lying between the Rappahannock and the Potomac, and extending
from Chesapeake Bay to the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains,
known to Virginians as the Northern Neck); and to serve as Collector
of Customs for the South Potomac. Fairfax first went to Westmoreland,
where he was associated with the Washington and Lee families.

Next he moved to King George, and lived at Falmouth. By 1741 he was representing
Prince William County in the House of Burgesses. Colonel Fairfax was elevated
to "His Majesty's Council of State" three years later. Becoming President
of the Council in 1744, he continued in that office until his death.

About this time William Fairfax completed his dwelling house, Belvoir,
situated on a high bluff overlooking the Potomac River, halfway between
Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall.

It was described by Washington in an advertisement as having "four
convenient rooms and a wide Hall on the first floor."

In one of these "convenient rooms," more than two hundred years ago
on July 19, 1743, Anne, eldest daughter of Colonel Fairfax was married
to Lawrence Washington of Mount Vernon.



To-day the majority of the great men who have swayed men's minds no longer have altars, but
they have statues, or their portraits are in the hands of their admirers, and the cult of which
they are the object is not notably different from that accorded to their predecessors.  An
understanding of the philosophy of history is only to be got by a thorough appreciation of
this fundamental point of the psychology of crowds.  The crowd demands a god before everything
else.

It must not be supposed that these are the superstitions of a bygone age which reason has definitely
banished.  Sentiment has never been vanquished in its eternal conflict with reason. Crowds
will hear no more of the words divinity and religion, in whose name they were so long enslaved;
but they have never possessed so many fetishes as in the last hundred years, and the old divinities
have never had so many statues and altars raised in their honour.  Those who in recent years
have studied the popular movement known under the name of Boulangism have been able to see
with what ease the religious instincts of crowds are ready to revive.  There was not a country
inn that did not possess the hero's portrait.  He was credited with the power of remedying
all injustices and all evils, and thousands of men would have given their lives for him.  Great
might have been his place in history had his character been at all on a level with his legendary
reputation.

It is thus a very useless commonplace to assert that a religion is necessary for the masses,
because all political, divine, and social creeds only take root among them on the condition
of always assuming the religious shape--a shape which obviates the danger of discussion.  Were
it possible to induce the masses to adopt atheism, this belief would exhibit all the intolerant
ardour of a religious sentiment, and in its exterior forms would soon become a cult.  The evolution
of the small Positivist sect furnishes us a curious proof in point.  What happened to the Nihilist
whose story is related by that profound thinker Dostoiewsky has quickly happened to the Positivists.
Illumined one day by the light of reason he broke the images of divinities and saints that
adorned the altar of a chapel, extinguished the candles, and, without losing a moment, replaced
the destroyed objects by the works of atheistic philosophers such as Buchner and Moleschott,
after which he piously relighted the candles. The object of his religious beliefs had been
transformed, but can it be truthfully said that his religious sentiments had changed?

Certain historical events--and they are precisely the most important--I again repeat, are not
to be understood unless one has attained to an appreciation of the religious form which the
convictions of crowds always assume in the long run.  There are social phenomena that need
to be studied far more from the point of view of the psychologist than from that of the naturalist.
The great historian Taine has only studied the Revolution as a naturalist, and on this account
the real genesis of events has often escaped him.  He has perfectly observed the facts, but
from want of having studied the psychology of crowds he has not always been able to trace their
causes.  The facts having appalled him by their bloodthirsty, anarchic, and ferocious side,
he has scarcely seen in the heroes of the great drama anything more than a horde of epileptic
savages abandoning themselves without restraint to their instincts.  The violence of the Revolution,
its massacres, its need of propaganda, its declarations of war upon all things, are only to
be properly explained by reflecting that the Revolution was merely the establishment of a new
religious belief in the mind of the masses.  The Reformation, the massacre of Saint Bartholomew,
the French religious wars, the Inquisition, the Reign of Terror are phenomena of an identical
kind, brought about by crowds animated by those religious sentiments which necessarily lead
those imbued with them to pitilessly extirpate by fire and sword whoever is opposed to the
establishment of the new faith.  The methods of the Inquisition are those of all whose convictions
are genuine and sturdy.  Their convictions would not deserve these epithets did they resort
to other methods.

Upheavals analogous to those I have just cited are only possible when it is the soul of the
masses that brings them about.  The most absolute despots could not cause them.  When historians
tell us that the massacre of Saint Bartholomew was the work of a king, they show themselves
as ignorant of the psychology of crowds as of that of sovereigns.  Manifestations of this order
can only proceed from the soul of crowds.  The most absolute power of the most despotic monarch
can scarcely do more than hasten or retard the moment of their apparition.  The massacre of
Saint Bartholomew or the religious wars were no more the work of kings than the Reign of Terror
was the work of Robespierre, Danton, or Saint Just.  At the bottom of such events is always
to be found the working of the soul of the masses, and never the power of potentates. 1. RACE.
The predominating influence it exercises--It represents the suggestions of ancestors.   2.
TRADITIONS. They are the synthesis of the soul of the race--Social importance of traditions--How,
after having been necessary they become harmful--Crowds are the most obstinate maintainers
of traditional ideas.   3. TIME. It prepares in succession the establishment of beliefs and
then their destruction.  It is by the aid of this factor that order may proceed from chaos.
4. POLITICAL AND SOCIAL INSTITUTIONS. Erroneous idea of their part--Their influence extremely
weak--They are effects, not causes--Nations are incapable of choosing what appear to them the
best institutions--Institutions are labels which shelter the most dissimilar things under the
same title-- How institutions may come to be created--Certain institutions theoretically bad,
such as centralisation obligatory for certain nations.   5. INSTITUTIONS AND EDUCATION. Falsity
of prevalent ideas as to the influence of instruction on crowds-- Statistical indications--Demoralising
effect of Latin system of education--Part instruction might play--Examples furnished by various
peoples.

Having studied the mental constitution of crowds and become acquainted with their modes of
feeling, thinking, and reasoning, we shall now proceed to examine how their opinions and beliefs
arise and become established.

The factors which determine these opinions and beliefs are of two kinds: remote factors and
immediate factors.

The remote factors are those which render crowds capable of adopting certain convictions and
absolutely refractory to the acceptance of others.  These factors prepare the ground in which
are suddenly seen to germinate certain new ideas whose force and consequences are a cause of
astonishment, though they are only spontaneous in appearance.  The outburst and putting in
practice of certain ideas among crowds present at times a startling suddenness.  This is only
a superficial effect, behind which must be sought a preliminary and preparatory action of long
duration.

The immediate factors are those which, coming on the top of this long, preparatory working,
in whose absence they would remain without effect, serve as the source of active persuasion
on crowds; that is, they are the factors which cause the idea to take shape and set it loose
with all its consequences.  The resolutions by which collectivities are suddenly carried away
arise out of these immediate factors; it is due to them that a riot breaks out or a strike
is decided upon, and to them that enormous majorities invest one man with power to overthrow
a government.

The successive action of these two kinds of factors is to be traced in all great historical
events.  The French Revolution--to cite but one of the most striking of such events--had among
its remote factors the writings of the philosophers, the exactions of the nobility, and the
progress of scientific thought.  The mind of the masses, thus prepared, was then easily roused
by such immediate factors as the speeches of orators, and the resistance of the court party
to insignificant reforms.

Among the remote factors there are some of a general nature, which are found to underlie all
the beliefs and opinions of crowds.  They are race, traditions, time, institutions, and education.

We now proceed to study the influence of these different factors.

1. RACE

This factor, race, must be placed in the first rank, for in itself it far surpasses in importance
all the others.  We have sufficiently studied it in another work; it is therefore needless
to deal with it again.  We showed, in a previous volume, what an historical race is, and how,
its character once formed, it possesses, as the result of the laws of heredity such power that
its beliefs, institutions, and arts--in a word, all the elements of its civilisation--are merely
the outward expression of its genius. This question is: "In your opinion are the Negro colleges meeting
the needs of definite religious training?" Every one's answer except one
might be summarized thus: Some good has been accomplished but we are
far from the real goal. We need reconstruction and a new impetus.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an
essential in the process of religious education does seem to indicate
that they regard self activity.

Wherever the social service was very scant the one reporting felt it his duty to give an apology
for the actual conditions and express a hope of better results in the future. This showed
that they felt it the vital factor in the progressive socialization of the
individuals. The place of prominence given to worship, to religious services
on Sunday and in the week is either an index to their conception
concerning the value of worship or else an index of their habit toward
orthodoxy.

Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former for the
larger number of these institutions.

SOME CURRENT CONCEPTIONS OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN RELATION TO GENERAL
EDUCATION

Religious education is considered a part of general education and
is included under that genus.

What is general education?

For a long time education was defined in terms of intellect, but
that ground is no longer tenable.

Spencer said:
"Education is the preparation for complete living." Modern educators
reject this as an inadequate statement of education. Education does
not merely prepare for something in the future.

It endeavors to fill one full of life, and human experience during the educative process. Education must be expressed
in social terms.

James describes education as the organization of acquired habits
of conduct and tendencies to behavior.

This emphasizes the psychological side.

It was thought that the aim of education could be expressed in purely
individual terms.

It was said to be the harmonious development of all the powers of the individual. Dewey attacks this definition
showing that there is no criterion for telling what is meant by
the terms used. There is nothing in the make-up of human beings, taken
in any isolated way which furnishes controlling ends and serves to
mark out powers.

Unless we have the aim supplied by social life we have only the old faculty
psychology to furnish us with ideas of powers in general or the specific
powers.[3] Dewey defines education as the regulation of the process of
coining to share in the social consciousness. And the majority of educators
use social terms to define education. Soares has this conception in mind
when he gives the following definition of education.

"Education is a scientifically directed process of developing progressive
socialized personality."

But to achieve personality one must achieve sympathy and sympathy
is one of the concerns of religion.

Hence all true education involves religion.

What is religion? Wright in the American Journal of Theology, Volume
XVI, page 385, quotes Leuba as defining religion as a belief in a
psychic superhuman power.

Wright has objections to this definition on the ground of its narrowness.
He attempts to add breadth to the definition in: "Religion is the endeavor to secure
the conservation of socially recognized values, through specific actions
that are believed to evoke some agency different from the ordinary
ego of the individual or from other merely human beings, and that
imply a feeling of dependence upon this agency.

Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment."

This is not synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies.
Creeds and ceremonies have to do with ecclesiasticism not with religion
per se. Creeds are developments of theology and dogma is an outgrowth
of religion and not religion.

Modes of worship developed into rites and ceremonies are ecclesiastical means of fostering the religious
spirit but not religion.

Religion is not a feeling to be imposed from without. Religion is a life
and a life-long process.

"The religious life is the response the heart of man makes to God,
as the heart of the universe.

The religious person is one who is conscious of his divinity because of his kinship with the universe
through God, and who because of this consciousness seeks fellowship
with God and the Godly."

Having arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion
which are given by some of the most representative students of the
subjects, let us ascertain some conceptions of religious education.

As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is
not regarded as a separate entity.

It is a part of the process of efficient education.

The human organism is a unit. Life is a whole and connects physical, mental
and religious phases.

The whole personality is the object for consideration for the educator. The emphasis in education varies
from physical to mental and from mental to religious, or social. When the emphasis is placed on the social
or religious phase the procedure may be properly called religious
education.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion. He
says: "Religious education is the process by which the individual
in response to a controlled environment, achieves a progressive, conscious
social[4] order based on regard for the worth and destiny of every
individual."

Professor Peabody states the matter in the following words:[5] "Religious education is the drawing out of
the religious nature, the clarifying and strengthening of religious ideals, the enriching and rationalizing
of the sense of God.... The end of religious education is service...." Dewey's idea of education is much
akin to the current conceptions of religious education.

The standard of each is found in the functional relationship of each
to society.

Modes
of expression and emphasis may vary but the ideals for both are the
same.

Dr.
Haslett[7] has given an unique representation of this conception.
"Religious education," says he, "is closely related to secular education
and is largely dependent upon it.

The fundamental laws and principles of psychology and of education
require to be recognized as central."

Professor
Coe[8] reminds us, however, that "religious education is not and
cannot be a mere application of any generalities in which the university
departments of education deal. It is not a mere particular that gets
its meaning or finds its test in the general."

Religious education deals with original data and with specific problems that
rarely appear in the instruction that is called 'general' and that
grow out of the specific nature of our educational purpose.

In the analysis of these data and in the determination of the method, we can and must use matter
contained in general courses of education. But the field of study of
religious education is not exhausted there, but is so specific and yet so
broad as properly to constitute a recognized branch of educational
practice.

The religious purpose in religious education yields the point of view
and the principles of classification that are important for religious
educators.

The conceptions of religious education just passed in review warrant
certain deductions.

Any institution which meets adequately the requirements of religious education
must have genuinely religious men and women in the entire teaching and
official force.

Such persons will determine the atmosphere and spirit of the institution.

These
teachers should have clear conceptions of the ideals of religious education.
The blind cannot lead the blind.

The students must be trained along three fundamental lines, of the
religious life.

First, he must have some of the intellectual value of religion.

He must have social knowledge. He must have the opportunity of expressing the devotional attitude
in worship.

He must have the outlet of religious energy in social service. The duty of the college will be
far from discharged unless it makes provision for laboratory religion where there is a working place
for each member.

Religion is a life and the college should be a society where this life
may be lived in its fullest extent, encouraging practical altruism and
giving the protection which an ideal society affords against demoralization.

EVOLUTION

OF RELIGIOUS
EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

The problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real.

On the basis of the investigation we are able to point out some prominent
phases of the problem.

The first element of this problem is the teacher. There are in Negro colleges, 22 teachers of religious
education who have had no professional training for the work. This means that one-fourth of the entire
corp of teachers of religion in these institutions are without the
prestige, at least, of even the semblance of professional training.

Two main causes account for this. These institutions have not those
who are professionally trained on their faculties and they lack funds
to procure the service of such persons.

In the
next place they think it is not necessary.

One
observation here is important. These services seem to be significant in proportion to the participation
in them by the students themselves. The Sunday School and the Young People's
meetings are the most popular services for the students.

They do the things in which they have a volitional interest. We cannot thrust our religious experiences
upon the students from without. They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with the environment
in which they live. The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow a program which was
effective for those who lived in another civilization.

The traditional Negro prayer meeting does not function religiously in
the life of the Negro college student.

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard
to religious services. Where should that stop?

Many are beginning to think that the religious value of the services
is often nullified by the compulsory attendance.

There are many conscientious objectors among the students who think the removal of compulsion would
be conducive to better religious development.

But
the likelihood of some swinging from one extreme to the other is very great. It is still a problem
left for the religious educators in the colleges to solve.

The solution must result in the conservation of the good found in the
compulsory system and the good to be found in freedom of choice.

Expressional activities are increasing in Negro colleges but with
few exceptions these are inadequate in scope and number.

It is true that not enough students are able to share in the social
service projects.

This
is really one of, if not the most important factors in religious
education.

Men gain religious power by acting out their beliefs, allowing their
convictions to flow out into service.

There is an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies in
Negro colleges. Frequently we find several organizations attempting
to do the same thing and each makes a miserable failure in the attempt.
More than that, this lack of coordination and correlation results
in duplications which surely mean wasted energy and non-effectiveness.

If all of the religious agencies were supervised in such a way that each would know his specific task and would
not overlap that of other agencies, much more effective work would be the result.

There
are signs of hope in the religious education of these Negro colleges. The almost
unanimous recognition of the religious motive in efficient education by the
educators and the manifest consciousness of needs of better religious
education have been mentioned. There are others. An increasing number
of trained teachers from Northern, Eastern and Western colleges and
universities is evident.

These men and women are coming from the institutions where the points of
view and training represented in the previous chapter are found. The
summer schools of the various colleges and universities in the North, East and
West are offering many of these modern religious education courses
and larger numbers of the teachers of religious education are availing
themselves of the opportunities.

Much literature of religious education published recently is finding its
way to these schools, the most notable of which is the Religious Education
Magazine.

The following sources were used in the preparation of this dissertation:
American Missionary Association Report, 1916; Baptist Missionary
Society (Woman's) Reports, 1910-1916; Catalogues--Negro Colleges,
1916-1917; W. E.B. DuBois, Morals and Manners Among Negro Americans, Atlanta
University Publications, No. 18; Journal of the Proceedings of the A.
M. E. Church (General Conference), 1916; Journal of the Proceedings of
the Methodist Episcopal Church (General Conference), 1916; Thomas J. Jones,
Negro Education, United States Bureau of Education, Bulletins 38
and 39, 1916; Thomas J. Jones, Recent Movements in Negro Education,
United States Bureau of Education, 1912, Vol.

I; Questionnaires, from Negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau
of Education Investigations, Education in the South, Bulletin 30,
1933; Monroe N. Work, Negro Year Book, 1914, 1915, 1916; Young Men's
Christian Association, Report of the International Committee, May
12, 1916; Year Book, 1915-1916.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W.
S. Athearn, Religion in the Curriculum-Religious Education; R. E.
Bolton, Principles of Education; H. F. Cope, The Efficient Layman;
H. F. Cope, Fifteen Years of the Religious Education Association,
The American Journal of Theology, July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee
Report, Standardization of Biblical Courses, Rel.

Educ.

August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, The Media of Religious Impression in College,
N. E. A. 1914, p. 494 ff; John Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying
Education, Moral Principles in Education; T. S. O. Evans, The University Young
Men's Christian Association as a Training School for Religious Leaders,
Rel. Educ. 1908; H. F. Fowler, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum
of Religious Education for Colleges, Rel.

Educ. 1915, p. 355 ff; E. N. Hardy, The Churches and The Educated Man; S. B. Haslett, Pedagogical Bible
School, Parts I and II; International Sunday School Association,
Organized Work in America, Vol.

XIII;
C. F. Kent, Training the College Teacher, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education,
Vol.

I, p. 370; E. C. Moore, What is Education; A. Morgan, Education and
Social Progress; F. G. Peabody, The Religious Education of an American
Child, Rel.

Educ. 1915, p. 107; I. J. Peritz, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum
of Religious Instruction, Rel. Educ. Vol.

X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed, The Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913,
p. 66; R. Rhees, Evangelisation of Education, Biblical World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh, The Essential
Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 3; I. T. Wood, The Contents
of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious Instruction for Colleges, Rel.

Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 332; The Survey of Progress in Religious and Moral Education, Rel. Educ.
1915, Vol. X, p. 114.

[2] None of these does all of the things described, but all of them
do at least some one of them.

[3] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[4] Ideals in Religious Education, R.E.A., June, 1917, p. 185.

[5] Ibid., p. 94.

[6] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[7] Pedagogical Bible School, page 207.

[8] R. E. A., April 19, 1917, page 123.

THE AFTERMATH OF NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION[1]

Nat Turner was a man below the ordinary stature, though strong and active.
He was of unmixed African lineage, with the true Negro face, every
feature of which was strongly marked.

He was not a preacher, as was generally believed, though a man of deep religious and spiritual nature, and
seemed inspired for the performance of some extraordinary work. He was austere
in life and manner, not given to society, but devoted his spare moments to
introspection and consecration. He thought often of what he had heard
said of him as to the great work he was to perform.

He eventually became seized with this idea as a frenzy. To use his
own language he saw many visions.

Receiving, as he says, further directions from the Holy Spirit, he
communicated his designs to four of his most confidential friends.

July 4, 1831, the anniversary of American Independence, was the day on which the work of death
was to have been begun. Nat Turner hesitated and allowed the time to pass by, when, the mysterious signs reappearing,
he determined to begin at once the bloody work. Sunday, August 21, he met those who had pledged their
cooperation and support. They were Hark Travis, Henry Porter, Samuel
Francis, Nelson Williams, Will Francis and Jack Reese, with Nat Turner
making the seventh.

They
worked out their plans while they ate in the lonely woods of Southampton
their feast of consecration, remaining at the feast until long after midnight.
The massacre was begun at the house of Joseph Travis, the man to
whom Nat Turner then belonged.

Armed with a hatchet Turner entered his master's chamber, the door
having been broken open with the axe, and aimed the first blow of
death.

The hatchet glanced harmless from the head of the would-be victim and the first fatal blow was given
by Will Francis, the one of the party who had got into the plot without Nat Turner's suggestion.
All of his master's household, five in number, soon perished.[4]

The
insurgents procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few
rounds of ammunition.

At the barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was drilled and maneuvered.
Nat Turner himself assumed the title of General Cargill with a stipend of
ten dollars a day.

Henry Porter, the paymaster, was to receive five dollars a day, and each private one dollar. Thence they marched
from plantation to plantation until by Monday morning the party numbered fifteen with nine
mounted.

Before nine o'clock the force had increased to forty and the insurgents had covered an extent of
territory two or three miles distant from the first point of attack,
sweeping everything before them.

Nat Turner generally took his station in the rear, with fifteen or
twenty of the best armed and reliable men at the front, who generally
approached the houses as fast as their horses could run for the double
purpose of preventing escapes and striking terror.

His force continued to increase
until they numbered sixty, all armed with guns, axes, swords, and
clubs, and mounted.

This line of attack was kept up until late Monday afternoon, when
they reached a point, about three miles distant from Jerusalem, the
county seat, where Nat Turner reluctantly yielded to a halt while
some of his forces went in search of reenforcements.

He was eager to push on to the county seat as speedily as possible and capture
it. This delay proved the turning point in the enterprise.

Impatient at the delay of his men who had turned aside, Turner started to the
mansion house whither they had gone and on their return to the wood found
a party of white men who had pursued the bloody path of the insurrectionists
and disposed of the guard of eight men whom Turner had left at the roadside.
The white men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain
Alexander P. Peete.

They had been directed to reserve their fire until within thirty paces,
but one of their number fired on the insurgents when within about one
hundred yards. Half of the whites beat a precipitate retreat when
Nat Turner ordered his men to fire and rush on them. The few remaining white
men stood their ground until Turner approached within fifty yards, when they too
followed the example of their comrades, fired and retreated with several
wounded.

Turner pursued and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter was
only prevented by the timely arrival of a party of whites approaching
in another direction from Jerusalem.

Being baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to cross
the Nottaway river at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem where he
expected to procure additional arms and ammunition from the rear.
After trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to Jerusalem,
the insurgents turned back toward his rendezvous and reached Major Thomas
Ridley's, where forty assembled. He placed out sentinels and lay down
to sleep, but there was to be no sleep that night. An attack on his
forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which ensued left him with
one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his forces, was proceeding
in his effort to rally new adherents when the firing of a gun by Hark
was the signal for a fire in ambush and a retreat followed.

After this Turner never saw many of his men any more. They
had killed fifty-five whites but the tide had turned. Turner concealed
himself in the woods but was not dismayed, for by messenger he directed
his forces to rally at the point from which on the previous Sunday
they had started out on their bloody work; but the discovery of white
men riding around the place as though they were looking for some one
in hiding convinced him that he had been betrayed.

A reign of terror followed in Virginia.[5] Labor was paralyzed, plantations
abandoned, women and children were driven from home and crowded into
nooks and corners.

The sufferings of many of these refugees who spent night
after night in the woods were intense. Retaliation began. In a little
more than one day 120 Negroes were killed. The newspapers of the times
contained from day to day indignant protests against the cruelties
perpetrated. One individual boasted that he himself had killed between
ten and fifteen Negroes. Volunteer whites rode in all directions visiting
plantations. Negroes were tortured to death, burned, maimed and subjected
to nameless atrocities.

Slaves who were distrusted were pointed out
and if they endeavored to escape, they were ruthlessly shot down.[6]

A
few individual instances will show the nature and extent of this vengeance.

There
occurred other instances which strikingly remind one of scenes before the Civil
War and during reconstruction. He took passage in the stage coach, but
the vehicle was intercepted. He then fled to a friend's home but the
house was broken open and he was dragged forth. The civil authorities
informed of the affair refused to interfere. The Governor of the commonwealth
quickly called into service whatever forces were at his command. The
lack of adequate munitions of war being apparent, Commodore Warrington,
in command of the Navy Yard in Gosport, was induced to distribute
a portion of the public arms under his control. For this purpose
the government ordered detachments of the Light Infantry from the
seventh and fifty-fourth Regiments and from the fourth Regiment of cavalry
and also from the fourth Light Artillery to take the field under
Brigadier General Eppes. Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were
also called into service under General William H. Brodnax and continued
in the field until the danger had passed. Further aid was afforded by Commodore
Eliott of the United States Navy by order of whom a detachment of
sailors from the Natchez was secured and assistance also from Colonel
House, the commanding officer at Fortress Monroe, who promptly detached
a part of his force to take the field under Lieutenant Colonel Worth.[10]
The revolt was subdued, however, before these troops could be placed
in action and about all they accomplished thereafter was the terrifying
of Negroes who had taken no part in the insurrection and the immolation
of others who were suspected.

Sixty-one white persons were killed.


In a series of remarkable pages, whose principal passages I reproduce further on, a great thinker,
M. Taine, has clearly shown that our former system of education was approximately that in vogue
to-day in England and America, and in a remarkable parallel between the Latin and Anglo-Saxon
systems he has plainly pointed out the consequences of the two methods.

One might consent, perhaps, at a pinch, to continue to accept all the disadvantages of our
classical education, although it produced nothing but discontented men, and men unfitted for
their station in life, did the superficial acquisition of so much knowledge, the faultless
repeating by heart of so many text-books, raise the level of intelligence.  But does it really
raise this level?  Alas, no!  The conditions of success in life are the possession of judgment,
experience, initiative, and character--qualities which are not bestowed by books.  Books are
dictionaries, which it is useful to consult, but of which it is perfectly useless to have lengthy
portions in one's head.

How is it possible for professional instruction to develop the intelligence in a measure quite
beyond the reach of classical instruction?  This has been well shown by M. Taine.

"Ideas, he says, are only formed in their natural and normal surroundings; the promotion of
the growth is effected by the innumerable impressions appealing to the senses which a young
man receives daily in the workshop, the mine, the law court, the study, the builder's yard,
the hospital; at the sight of tools, materials, and operations; in the presence of customers,
workers, and labour, of work well or ill done, costly or lucrative.  In such a way are obtained
those trifling perceptions of detail of the eyes, the ear, the hands, and even the sense of
smell, which, picked up involuntarily, and silently elaborated, take shape within the learner,
and suggest to him sooner or, later this or that new combination, simplification, economy,
improvement, or invention.  The young Frenchman is deprived, and precisely at the age when
they are most fruitful, of all these precious contacts, of all these indispensable elements
of assimilation.  For seven or eight years on end he is shut up in a school, and is cut off
from that direct personal experience which would give him a keen and exact notion of men and
things and of the various ways of handling them."

" . . . At least nine out of ten have wasted their time and pains during several years of their
life--telling, important, even decisive years.  Among such are to be counted, first of all,
the half or two-thirds of those who present themselves for examination--I refer to those who
are rejected; and then among those who are successful, who obtain a degree, a certificate,
a diploma, there is still a half or two-thirds--I refer to the overworked.  Too much has been
demanded of them by exacting that on a given day, on a chair or before a board, they should,
for two hours in succession, and with respect to a group of sciences, be living repertories
of all human knowledge.  In point of fact they were that, or nearly so, for two hours on that
particular day, but a month later they are so no longer.  They could not go through the examination
again.  Their too numerous and too burdensome acquisitions slip incessantly from their mind,
and are not replaced.  Their mental vigour has declined, their fertile capacity for growth
has dried up, the fully-developed man appears, and he is often a used-up man.  Settled down,
married, resigned to turning in a circle, and indefinitely in the same circle, he shuts himself
up in his confined function, which he fulfils adequately, but nothing more.  Such is the average
yield: assuredly the receipts do not balance the expenditure.  In England or America, where,
as in France previous to 1789, the contrary proceeding is adopted, the outcome obtained is
equal or superior."

The illustrious psychologist subsequently shows us the difference between our system and that
of the Anglo-Saxons.  The latter do not possess our innumerable special schools.  With them
instruction is not based on book-learning, but on object lessons. The engineer, for example,
is trained in a workshop, and never at a school; a method which allows of each individual reaching
the level his intelligence permits of.  He becomes a workman or a foreman if he can get no
further, an engineer if his aptitudes take him as far.  This manner of proceeding is much more
democratic and of much greater benefit to society than that of making the whole career of an
individual depend on an examination, lasting a few hours, and undergone at the age of nineteen
or twenty.

"In the hospital, the mine, the factory, in the architect's or the lawyer's office, the student,
who makes a start while very young, goes through his apprenticeship, stage by stage, much as
does with us a law clerk in his office, or an artist in his studio. Now, if you pronounce Hinges
in the French fashion, you give forth an exclamation of distressful pain. The name cannot be shouted
from a motor-cycle. It has its difficulties even for the student of French. So we all called it, plainly
and bluntly, Hinges, as though it were connected to a door. The inhabitants noticed this. Thinking that they
and their forefathers had been wrong--for surely these fine men with red hats knew better than
they--the English pronunciation spread. The village became 'Ingees, and now only some unfashionable
dotards in Béthune preserve the tradition of the old pronunciation. It is not only Hinges that has
been thus decently attired in British garb.

Le Cateau is Lee Catòo. Boescheppe is Bo-peep. Ouderdon is Eiderdown.

Béthune was full of simple pleasures.

First there were the public baths, cheap and good, and sundry coiffeurs who were much in demand, for
they made you smell sweetly.

Then there was a little blue and white café. The daughter of the house
was well-favoured and played the piano with some skill.

One of us spent all his spare time at this café in silent adoration--of the piano, for his French
was exiguous in the extreme. There was a patisserie crammed full
of the most delicious cream-cakes.

The
despatch rider who went to Hinges about 3.30 P.M. and did not return
with cakes for tea, found life unpleasant.

Near the station three damsels ruled a tavern. They were friendly and eager to teach us French. We might have
left them with a sigh of regret if we had not once arrived as they
were eating their midday meal.

At one time the Germans dropped a few shells into Béthune, but did little damage. Bombs fell too. One nearly ended
the existence of "Sadders"--also known as "Boo." It dropped on the other side of the street; doing our despatch
rider no damage, it slightly wounded Sergeant Croucher of the Cyclists
in a portion of his body that made him swear when he was classed as
a "sitting-up case."

Of all the towns behind the lines--Béthune, Estaires, Armentières,
Bailleul, Poperinghe--Béthune is the pleasantest.

The people are charming. There is nothing you cannot buy there.

It is clean and well-ordered, and cheerful in the rain. I pray that
Béthune may survive the war--that after peace has been declared and
Berlin has been entered, I may spend a week there and much money
to the profit of the people and the satisfaction of myself.

Now I will give some account of our adventures out with the brigades
round La Bassée.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] The first--in October and November.

[16] This is not an unthinking advertisement.

After despatch riding from August 16 to February 18 my judgment should
be worth something.

I am firmly
convinced that if the Government could have provided all despatch
riders with Blackburnes, the percentage--at all times small--of messages
undelivered owing to mechanical breakdowns or the badness of the roads
would have been reduced to zero.

I have no interest in the Blackburne Company beyond a sincere admiration
of the machine it produces.

CHAPTER IX.

ROUND LA BASSÉE.

It had been a melancholy day, full of rain and doubting news. Those of us who were not "out" were
strolling up and down the platform arranging the order of cakes from
home and trying to gather from the sound of the gunning and intermittent
visits to the Signal Office what was happening.

Someone had been told that the old 15th was being hard pressed. Each
of us regretted loudly that we had not been attached to it, though
our hearts spoke differently.

Despatch riders have muddled thoughts. There is a longing for the excitement
of danger and a very earnest desire to keep away from it.

The C.O. walked on to the platform hurriedly, and in a minute or two I was off. It was lucky that the road
was covered with unholy grease, that the light was bad and there
was transport on the road--for it is not good for a despatch rider
to think too much of what is before him.

My instructions were to report to the general and make myself useful. I was also cheerfully informed that the
H.Q. of the 15th were under a robust shell-fire.

Little parties of sad-looking wounded that I passed, the noise of the guns, and the evil dusk
heartened me.

I rode into Festubert, which was full of noise, and, very hastily
dismounting, put my motor-cycle under the cover of an arch and reported
to the general.

He was sitting at a table in the stuffy room of a particularly dirty tavern.
At the far end a fat and frightened woman was crooning to her child. Beside
her sat a wrinkled, leathery old man with bandaged head.

He had wandered into the street, and he had been cut about by shrapnel.

The few wits he had ever possessed were gone, and he gave every few seconds little croaks of hate. Three
telephone operators were working with strained faces at their highest
speed. The windows had been smashed by shrapnel, and bits of glass
and things crunched under foot. The room was full of noises--the crackle
of the telephones, the crooning of the woman, the croak of the wounded
old man, the clear and incisive tones of the general and his brigade-major,
the rattle of not too distant rifles, the booming of guns and occasionally
the terrific, overwhelming crash of a shell bursting in the village.

I was given a glass of wine. Cadell, the Brigade Signal Officer, and the Veterinary
Officer, came up to me and talked cheerfully in whispered tones about our friends.

There
was the sharp cry of shrapnel in the street and a sudden rattle against
the whole house. The woman and child fled somewhere through a door, followed
feebly by the old man. The brigade-major persuaded the general to work in some
less unhealthy place. The telephone operators moved. A moment's delay as
the general endeavoured to persuade the brigade-major to go first,
and we found ourselves under a stalwart arch that led into the courtyard
of the tavern.

We lit pipes and cigarettes. The crashes of bursting shells grew more
frequent, and the general remarked in a dry and injured tone--

"Their
usual little evening shoot before putting up the shutters, I suppose."

But first the Germans "searched" the village. Now to search a village means to start at one end of the village
and place shells at discreet intervals until the other end of the
village is reached.

It is an unpleasant process for those in the middle of the village, even though they be standing,
as we were, in comparatively good shelter.

We heard the Germans start at the other end of the village street.

The crashes came nearer and nearer, until a shell burst with a scream and a thunderous roar just on our
right.

We puffed away at our cigarettes for a second, and a certain despatch
rider wished he were anywhere but in the cursed village of Festubert
by Béthune.

There was another scream and overwhelming relief. The next shell
burst three houses away on our left.

I knocked my pipe out and filled another.

The Germans finished their little evening shoot. We marched back very slowly
in the darkness to 1910 Farm.

This farm was neither savoury nor safe. It was built round a courtyard which consisted of a gigantic
hole crammed with manure in all the stages of unpleasant putrefaction.
One side is a barn; two sides consist of stables, and the third is
the house inhabited not only by us but by an incredibly filthy and
stinking old woman who was continually troubling the general because
some months ago a French cuirassier took one of her chickens.

The day after we arrived at this farm I had few despatches to take,
so I wrote to Robert.

Here is some of the letter and bits of other letters I wrote during
the following days.

They will give you an idea of our state of mind:[17]

If you want
something of the dramatic--I am writing in a farm under shrapnel fire,
smoking a pipe that was broken by a shell.

For true effect I suppose I should not tell you that the shrapnel is bursting about fifty yards the other
side of the house, that I am in a room lying on the floor, and consequently that, so long as they go
on firing shrapnel, I am perfectly safe.

It's the dismallest of places.

Two miles farther back the heavies are banging away over our heads. There
are a couple of batteries near the farm.

Two miles along the road the four battalions of our brigade are holding
on for dear life in their trenches.

The country is open plough, with little clumps of trees, sparse hedges,
and isolated cottages giving a precarious cover.

It's all very damp and miserable, for it was raining hard last night
and the day before.

I am in a little bare room with the floor covered with straw. Two
telegraph operators are making that infernal jerky clicking sound
I have begun so to hate.

Half
a dozen men of the signal staff are lying about the floor looking at week-old papers. In the next room
I can hear the general, seated at a table and intent on his map, talking to an officer that has just come from
the firing line.

Outside the window a gun is making a fiendish row, shaking the whole house.
Occasionally there is a bit of a rattle--that's shrapnel bullets
falling on the tiles of an outhouse.

If you came out you might probably find this exhilarating.

I have just had a talk with our mutual friend Cadell, the Signal Officer of this brigade, and we have decided
that we are fed up with it.

For one thing--after two months' experience of shell fire the sound
of a shell bursting within measurable distance makes you start and shiver
for a moment--reflex action of the nerves.

That is annoying. We both decided we would willingly change places
with you and take a turn at defending your doubtless excellently
executed trenches at Liberton.

The line to the ----[18] has just gone. It's almost certain death to relay
it in the day-time.

Cadell and his men are discussing the chances while somebody else
has started a musical-box.

A man has gone out; I wonder if he will come back.

The rest of the men have gone to sleep again. That gun outside the window is getting on my nerves. Well,
well!

The shrapnel fire appears to have stopped for the present. No, there's
a couple together.

If they fire over this farm I hope they don't send me back to D.H.Q.

Do
you know what I long for more than anything else?

A clean, unhurried breakfast with spotless napery and shining silver
and porridge and kippers.

I don't think these long, lazy after-breakfast hours at Oxford were
wasted.

They are a memory and a hope out here. The shrapnel is getting nearer and more
frequent. We are all hoping it will kill some chickens in the courtyard.
The laws against looting are so strict.

What an excellent musical-box, playing quite a good imitation of Cavalleria Rusticana. I guess we shall
have to move soon. Too many shells. Too dark to write any more----

After all, quite the most important things out here are a fine meal and a good bath. If you consider the
vast area of the war the facts that we have lost two guns or advanced
five miles are of very little importance.

War, making one realise the hopeless insignificance of the individual,
creates in one such an immense regard for self, that so long as one
does well it matters little if four officers have been killed reconnoitring
or some wounded have had to be left under an abandoned gun all night.

I started with an immense interest in tactics. This has nearly all
left me and I remain a more or less efficient despatch-carrying animal--a
part of a machine realising the hopeless, enormous size of the machine.

The

infantry officer after two months of modern war is a curious phenomenon.[19] He is probably one of three
survivors of an original twenty-eight. He is not frightened of being
killed; he has forgotten to think about it.

But there is a sort of reflex fright. He becomes either cautious and liable to sudden panics, or very
rash indeed, or absolutely mechanical in his actions.

The first state means the approach of a nervous breakdown, the second
a near death.

There
are very few, indeed, who retain a nervous balance and a calm judgment.

And all have a harsh frightened voice. If you came suddenly out here, you would think they were all
mortally afraid. But it is only giving orders for hours together
under a heavy fire.

Battle noises are terrific.

At
the present moment a howitzer is going strong behind this, and the concussion
is tremendous. The noise is like dropping a traction-engine on a huge
tin tray.

A shell passing away from you over your head is like the loud crackling of a newspaper close to your ear. It makes
a sort of deep reverberating crackle in the air, gradually lessening, until there is a dull boom, and a mile
or so away you see a thick little cloud of white smoke in the air
or a pear-shaped cloud of grey-black smoke on the ground.

Coming towards you a shell makes a cutting, swishing note, gradually
getting higher and higher, louder and louder.

There is a longer note one instant and then it ceases. Shrapnel bursting
close to you has the worst sound.

It is almost funny in a village that is being shelled.

Things simply disappear. You are standing in an archway a little back
from the road--a shriek of shrapnel. The windows are broken and the
tiles rush clattering into the street, while little bullets and bits
of shell jump like red-hot devils from side to side of the street,
ricochetting until their force is spent.

Or a deeper bang, a crash, and a whole house tumbles down.

3/4-hour later.--Curious life this. Just after I had finished the last
sentence, I was called out to take a message to a battery telling them to
shell a certain village. Here am I wandering out, taking orders for the complete
destruction of a village and probably for the death of a couple of hundred
men[20] without a thought, except that the roads are very greasy
and that lunch time is near.

Again, yesterday, I put our Heavies in action, and in a quarter of
an hour a fine old church, with what appeared from the distance a
magnificent tower, was nothing but a grotesque heap of ruins.

The
Germans were loopholing it for defence.

Oh the
waste, the utter damnable waste of everything out here--men, horses,
buildings, cars, everything. Those who talk about war being a salutary
discipline are those who remain at home. In a modern war there is little
room for picturesque gallantry or picture-book heroism. We are all either
animals or machines, with little gained except our emotions dulled
and brutalised and nightmare flashes of scenes that cannot be written
about because they are unbelievable.

I
wonder what difference you will find in us when we come home----

Do
you know what a night scare is?

In
our last H.Q. we were all dining when suddenly there was a terrific
outburst of rifle-fire from our lines. We went out into the road that
passes the farm and stood there in the pitch darkness, wondering. The
fire increased in intensity until every soldier within five miles
seemed to be revelling in a lunatic succession of "mad minutes."
Was it a heavy attack on our lines? Soon pom-poms joined in sharp,
heavy taps--and machine guns. The lines to the battalions were at the
moment working feebly, and what the operators could get through was
scarcely intelligible. Ammunition limbers were hurried up, and I
stood ready to dart anywhere.

For twenty
minutes the rifle-fire seemed to grow wilder and wilder.

At
last stretcher-bearers came in with a few wounded and reported that
we seemed to be holding our own.

Satisfactory
so far. Then there were great flashes of shrapnel over our lines; that
comforted us, for if your troops are advancing you don't fire shrapnel
over the enemy's lines. You never know how soon they may be yours.
The firing soon died down until we heard nothing but little desultory
bursts. Finally an orderly came--the Germans had half-heartedly charged
our trenches but had been driven off with loss.

We returned
to the farm and found that in the few minutes we had been outside everything
had been packed and half-frightened men were standing about for orders.

The
explanation of it all came later and was simple enough. The French, without
letting us know, had attacked the Germans on our right, and the Germans
to keep us engaged had made a feint attack upon us.

So we went back
to dinner.

In modern war the infantryman hasn't much of a chance. Strategy nowadays
consists in arranging for the mutual slaughter of infantry by the opposing
guns, each general trusting that his guns will do the greater slaughter.

And half gunnery is luck. The day before yesterday we had a little
afternoon shoot at where we thought the German trenches might be. The
Germans unaccountably retreated, and yesterday when we advanced we
found the trenches crammed full of dead. By a combination of intelligent
anticipation and good luck we had hit them exactly----

From these letters you will be able to gather what mood we were in and something
of what the brigade despatch rider was doing.

After
the first day the Germans ceased shrapnelling the fields round the
farm and left us nearly in peace.

There I met
Major Ballard, commanding the 15th Artillery Brigade, one of the finest
officers of my acquaintance, and Captain Frost, the sole remaining
officer of the Cheshires. He was charming to me; I was particularly grateful
for the loan of a razor, for my own had disappeared and there were
no despatch riders handy from whom I could borrow.

Talking of the Cheshires reminds me of a story illustrating the troubles
of a brigadier.

The general was dining calmly one
night after having arranged an attack. All orders had been sent out.

Everything
was complete and ready. Suddenly there was a knock at the door and in walked
Captain M----, who reported his arrival with 200 reinforcements for
the Cheshires, a pleasant but irritating addition. The situation
was further complicated by the general's discovery that M---- was
senior to the officer then in command of the Cheshires.

Poor M---- was not left long in command.
A fortnight later the Germans broke through and over the Cheshires,
and M---- died where a commanding officer should.

From 1910 Farm I had one good ride to the battalions, through Festubert
and along to the Cuinchy bridge.

For me it was
interesting because it was one of the few times I had ridden just
behind our trenches, which at the moment were just north of the road
and were occupied by the Bedfords.

In
a day or two we returned to Festubert, and Cadell gave me a shake-down
on a mattress in his billet--gloriously comfortable. The room was
a little draughty because the fuse of a shrapnel had gone right through
the door and the fireplace opposite. Except for a peppering on the
walls and some broken glass the house was not damaged; we almost laughed
at the father and mother and daughter who, returning while we were
there, wept because their home had been touched.  Whoever can supply them with illusions is easily their
master; whoever attempts to destroy their illusions is always their victim.

3. EXPERIENCE

Experience constitutes almost the only effective process by which a truth may be solidly established
in the mind of the masses, and illusions grown too dangerous be destroyed.  To this end, however,
it is necessary that the experience should take place on a very large scale, and be very frequently
repeated.  The experiences undergone by one generation are useless, as a rule, for the generation
that follows, which is the reason why historical facts, cited with a view to demonstration,
serve no purpose.  Their only utility is to prove to what an extent experiences need to be
repeated from age to age to exert any influence, or to be successful in merely shaking an erroneous
opinion when it is solidly implanted in the mind of the masses.

Our century and that which preceded it will doubtless be alluded to by historians as an era
of curious experiments, which in no other age have been tried in such number.

The most gigantic of these experiments was the French Revolution. To find out that a society
is not to be refashioned from top to bottom in accordance with the dictates of pure reason,
it was necessary that several millions of men should be massacred and that Europe should be
profoundly disturbed for a period of twenty years.  To prove to us experimentally that dictators
cost the nations who acclaim them dear, two ruinous experiences have been required in fifty
years, and in spite of their clearness they do not seem to have been sufficiently convincing.
The first, nevertheless, cost three millions of men and an invasion, the second involved a
loss of territory, and carried in its wake the necessity for permanent armies.  A third was
almost attempted not long since, and will assuredly be attempted one day.  To bring an entire
nation to admit that the huge German army was not, as was currently alleged thirty years ago,
a sort of harmless national guard,[15] the terrible war which cost us so dear had to take place.
To bring about the recognition that Protection ruins the nations who adopt it, at least twenty
years of disastrous experience will be needful.  These examples might be indefinitely multiplied.

[15] The opinion of the crowd was formed in this case by those rough-and-ready associations
of dissimilar things, the mechanism of which I have previously explained.  The French national
guard of that period, being composed of peaceable shopkeepers, utterly lacking in discipline
and quite incapable of being taken seriously, whatever bore a similar name, evoked the same
conception and was considered in consequence as harmless.  The error of the crowd was shared
at the time by its leaders, as happens so often in connection with opinions dealing with generalisations.
In a speech made in the Chamber on the 31st of December, 1867, and quoted in a book by M. E.
Ollivier that has appeared recently, a statesman who often followed the opinion of the crowd
but was never in advance of it--I allude to M. Thiers--declared that Prussia only possessed
a national guard analogous to that of France, and in consequence without importance, in addition
to a regular army about equal to the French regular army; assertions about as accurate as the
predictions of the same statesman as to the insignificant future reserved for railways.

4. REASON

In enumerating the factors capable of making an impression on the minds of crowds all mention
of reason might be dispensed with, were it not necessary to point out the negative value of
its influence.

We have already shown that crowds are not to be influenced by reasoning, and can only comprehend
rough-and-ready associations of ideas.  The orators who know how to make an impression upon
them always appeal in consequence to their sentiments and never to their reason.  The laws
of logic have no action on crowds.[16] To bring home conviction to crowds it is necessary first
of all to thoroughly comprehend the sentiments by which they are animated, to pretend to share
these sentiments, then to endeavour to modify them by calling up, by means of rudimentary associations,
certain eminently suggestive notions, to be capable, if need be, of going back to the point
of view from which a start was made, and, above all, to divine from instant to instant the
sentiments to which one's discourse is giving birth. This necessity of ceaselessly varying
one's language in accordance with the effect produced at the moment of speaking deprives from
the outset a prepared and studied harangue of all efficaciousness.  In such a speech the orator
follows his own line of thought, not that of his hearers, and from this fact alone his influence
is annihilated.

[16] My first observations with regard to the art of impressing crowds and touching the slight
assistance to be derived in this connection from the rules of logic date back to the seige
of Paris, to the day when I saw conducted to the Louvre, where the Government was then sitting,
Marshal V----, whom a furious crowd asserted they had surprised in the act of taking the plans
of the fortifications to sell them to the Prussians.  A member of the Government (G. P----),
a very celebrated orator, came out to harangue the crowd, which was demanding the immediate
execution of the prisoner.  I had expected that the speaker would point out the absurdity of
the accusation by remarking that the accused Marshal was positively one of those who had constructed
the fortifications, the plan of which, moreover, was on sale at every booksellers.  To my immense
stupefaction--I was very young then--the speech was on quite different lines.  "Justice shall
be done," exclaimed the orator, advancing towards the prisoner, "and pitiless justice.  Let
the Government of the National Defence conclude your inquiry.  In the meantime we will keep
the prisoner in custody."  At once calmed by this apparent concession, the crowd broke up,
and a quarter of an hour later the Marshal was able to return home.  He would infallibly have
been torn in pieces had the speaker treated the infuriated crowd to the logical arguments that
my extreme youth induced me to consider as very convincing.

Logical minds, accustomed to be convinced by a chain of somewhat close reasoning, cannot avoid
having recourse to this mode of persuasion when addressing crowds, and the inability of their
arguments always surprises them.  "The usual mathematical consequences based on the syllogism--that
is, on associations of identities--are imperative . . ." writes a logician.  "This imperativeness
would enforce the assent even of an inorganic mass were it capable of following associations
of identities." Seek along this island ground For a vast and darksome cave, Which restrains the lake's
dark wave, And supports the mountains round; He who dares to go therein, Having first contritely
told All his faults, shall there behold

Where the soul is purged
from sin.

He shall see with mortal
eyes Hell itself--where those who die In their sins forever lie,
In the fire that never dies.

He shall see, in blest fruition, Where the happy spirits dwell. But of
this be sure as well-- He who without true contrition Enters there
to idly try What the cave may be, doth go To his death--he'll suffer
woe While the Lord doth reign on high.

Who this day shall set you free From this poor world's weariness;

He shall grant to you, in pity, Bliss undreamed by mortal men-- Making
thee a denizen Of his own celestial city.

He shall to the world proclaim His omnipotence and glory, By the
wondrous Purgatory, Which shall bear thy sainted name.

Polonia, the King's daughter, whom Ludovico had married and deserted,
having first tried to kill her, appears upon the scene just as the
King, Patrick, and some others, who have set out upon their quest
for the Purgatory, have reached a gloomy mountain and a deep cave.

Polonia relates the wonders and the terrors of the cavern through which she
has passed. Patrick then speaks as follows:

PATRICK. This cave, Egerio, which you see, concealeth Many mysteries
of life and death, Not for him whose hardened bosom feeleth Nought
of true repentance or true faith.

But he who freely enters, who revealeth All his sins with penitential
breath, Shall endure his Purgatory then, And return forgiven back
again.

Later in the drama we find Ludovico desiring

"To enter Into Patrick's Purgatory; Humbly and devoutly keeping Thus the
promise that I gave him."

Again, he says:

"I have faith and firm reliance That you yet shall see me happy, If
in God's name blessed Patrick,

"Aid me in the Purgatory."

Having confessed his sins and made due preparation, he enters the
cave.

On his return hence, the Priest, or Canon as he is called, bids him
relate the wonders he has seen.

He finds himself first "in thick and pitchy darkness," he hears horrid
clangor, and falls down at length into a hall of jasper, where he meets
with twelve grave men, who encourage him, and bid him keep up his courage amid
the fearful sights he is to behold later on. At length he reaches the Purgatory:

"I
approached another quarter; There it seemed that many spirits I had
known elsewhere, were gathered Into one vast congregation, Where, although
'twas plain they suffered, Still they looked with joyous faces, Wore
a peaceable appearance, Uttered no impatient accents, But, with moistened
eyes uplifted Towards the heavens, appeared imploring Pity, and their
sins lamenting.

This, in truth, was Purgatory, Where the sins that are more venial
Are purged out."

He then alludes to that Bridge or "Brig o' Dread," to which allusion
will be made in another portion of our volume. As this passage is
celebrated, it is well to give it in full:

LUDOVICO.

THE MEANS OF ACTION OF THE LEADERS.  Affirmation, repetition, contagion--The respective part
of these different factors--The way in which contagion may spread from the lower to the upper
classes in a society--A popular opinion soon becomes a general opinion. 3. PRESTIGE. Definition
of prestige and classification of its different kinds--Acquired prestige and personal prestige--Various
examples--The way in which prestige is destroyed.

We are now acquainted with the mental constitution of crowds, and we also know what are the
motives capable of making an impression on their mind.  It remains to investigate how these
motives may be set in action, and by whom they may usefully be turned to practical account.

1. THE LEADERS OF CROWDS.

As soon as a certain number of living beings are gathered together, whether they be animals
or men, they place themselves instinctively under the authority of a chief.

In the case of human crowds the chief is often nothing more than a ringleader or agitator,
but as such he plays a considerable part.  His will is the nucleus around which the opinions
of the crowd are grouped and attain to identity.  He constitutes the first element towards
the organisation of heterogeneous crowds, and paves the way for their organisation in sects;
in the meantime he directs them.  A crowd is a servile flock that is incapable of ever doing
without a master.

The leader has most often started as one of the led.  He has himself been hypnotised by the
idea, whose apostle he has since become.  It has taken possession of him to such a degree that
everything outside it vanishes, and that every contrary opinion appears to him an error or
a superstition.  An example in point is Robespierre, hypnotised by the philosophical ideas
of Rousseau, and employing the methods of the Inquisition to propagate them.

The leaders we speak of are more frequently men of action than thinkers.  They are not gifted
with keen foresight, nor could they be, as this quality generally conduces to doubt and inactivity.
They are especially recruited from the ranks of those morbidly nervous, excitable, half-deranged
persons who are bordering on madness.  However absurd may be the idea they uphold or the goal
they pursue, their convictions are so strong that all reasoning is lost upon them.  Contempt
and persecution do not affect them, or only serve to excite them the more.  They sacrifice
their personal interest, their family--everything.  The very instinct of self-preservation
is entirely obliterated in them, and so much so that often the only recompense they solicit
is that of martyrdom.  The intensity of their faith gives great power of suggestion to their
words.  The multitude is always ready to listen to the strong-willed man, who knows how to
impose himself upon it.  Men gathered in a crowd lose all force of will, and turn instinctively
to the person who possesses the quality they lack.

Nations have never lacked leaders, but all of the latter have by no means been animated by
those strong convictions proper to apostles.  These leaders are often subtle rhetoricians,
seeking only their own personal interest, and endeavouring to persuade by flattering base instincts.
The influence they can assert in this manner may be very great, but it is always ephemeral.
The men of ardent convictions who have stirred the soul of crowds, the Peter the Hermits, the
Luthers, the Savonarolas, the men of the French Revolution, have only exercised their fascination
after having been themselves fascinated first of all by a creed.  They are then able to call
up in the souls of their fellows that formidable force known as faith, which renders a man
the absolute slave of his dream.

The arousing of faith--whether religious, political, or social, whether faith in a work, in
a person, or an idea--has always been the function of the great leaders of crowds, and it is
on this account that their influence is always very great.  Of all the forces at the disposal
of humanity, faith has always been one of the most tremendous, and the gospel rightly attributes
to it the power of moving mountains.  To endow a man with faith is to multiply his strength
tenfold.  The great events of history have been brought about by obscure believers, who have
had little beyond their faith in their favour.  It is not by the aid of the learned or of philosophers,
and still less of sceptics, that have been built up the great religions which have swayed the
world, or the vast empires which have spread from one hemisphere to the other.

In the cases just cited, however, we are dealing with great leaders, and they are so few in
number that history can easily reckon them up.  They form the summit of a continuous series,
which extends from these powerful masters of men down to the workman who, in the smoky atmosphere
of an inn, slowly fascinates his comrades by ceaselessly drumming into their ears a few set
phrases, whose purport he scarcely comprehends, but the application of which, according to
him, must surely bring about the realisation of all dreams and of every hope.

In every social sphere, from the highest to the lowest, as soon as a man ceases to be isolated
he speedily falls under the influence of a leader. CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy man, the
curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the mountains
of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia, Diocese
of Metz. In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight
o'clock in the morning, he being in his kitchen, with his niece and
the servant, he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on the
ground turn round three or four times, without its being set in motion
by any one.

A moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the next room
into the same kitchen, in presence of the same persons, without their
seeing the hand which threw it.

The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass were broken, and through these panes
were thrown some stones, with what appeared to them supernatural
dexterity.

The spirit never hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night time, but always during the day. The
curé employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his house, and
thenceforth the genius broke no more panes of glass; but he continued
to throw stones at the curé's people, without hurting them, however. If they
fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the bucket;
and afterwards he began to serve in the kitchen.

One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden,
he pulled them up as fast as she planted them, and laid them in a
heap.

It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the German style;
the genius continued to play his tricks.

One day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade was found
thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any trace being seen
of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that on the spade
was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two soles, which
the girl had locked up the evening before in a little box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter,
and putting it either all round the kitchen, or in the porch, or even
in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight.

One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees,
and, having put some water in it, carried it to the ally or walk in
the garden; another time he suspended it to the pot-hook over the
fire.

The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's
supper, the genius broke two more into it in his presence, the maid
having merely turned to get some salt.

The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware,
furniture, linen, bread, milk, and other things scattered about over
the house.

Sometimes
the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one time with stones, at another with corn or leaves,
and in a moment, before the eyes of all present, all was overturned
and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place,
and told him he was resolved to quit the parsonage house. Whilst this
was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that the genius
had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money in
a hole in the ground.

They went there, and found things exactly as she had said. They picked up the money, which
what the curé had put away in a place not locked up; and in a moment
after they found it anew, with some liards, two by two, scattered
about the kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to the curé's
house, and persuaded him that it was all the effect of a spell; they
told him to take two pistols, and fire them off at the place where
he might observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these
officers two pieces of silver; and from that time he was no longer
perceived in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which
the elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had had
credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled the curé
for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house, what had he to fear
from any pistol shot which might have been fired at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?

I have been told several times that a monk of the Cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these signs, and he always arrived. It
is affirmed of another monk of the same order that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him, not only
of what passed in the house, but also of what happened out of it;
and one day he was awakened three times, and warned that some monks
were quarreling, and were ready to come to blows; he ran to the spot,
and put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus[284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons
and false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from
them many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not thought
proper to be present, but the decisions of which he desired to know,
being in a boat with St. Sulpicius, but apart from others, as usual
with him, an angel appeared, and informed him what had passed in
this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held, and it was found to be at the same
hour at which the angel had appeared to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room
and his clothes.

One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard him talking with
some one; he entered, and asked who he was conversing with. The youth affirmed
that there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the superior could neither
see nor discover any one there.

Nevertheless, as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned
that for some years he had been attended by a familiar genius, who
rendered him every service that a domestic could have done, and had
promised him great advantages in the ecclesiastical profession.

The superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said. He ordered the genius to set a chair for the
superior; the genius obeyed. Information of this was sent to the archbishop,
who did not think proper to give it publicity. The young clerk was sent
away, and this singular adventure was buried in silence.

Bodin[285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living
at the time he wrote, which was in 1588. This person had a familiar who
from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting his
conduct, sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him practice
virtue, or to assist him; resolving the difficulties which he might
find in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel upon his own
affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning
to awaken him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing
that it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad
day, striking gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench.

When he desired to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched
his right ear; but if it was anything wrong and dangerous, he touched
his left ear; so that from that time nothing occurred to him of which
he was not warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life
in imminent danger, he saw his genius, under the form of a child of
extraordinary beauty, who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris,[286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had
a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented
him from sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off
the bed-clothes, or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened to him in the open country, and
in the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled at, and his hat
thrown down; then he heard the bursts of laughter and the voice of
a person deceased and well known to him, who seemed to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams,
or otherwise, can hardly be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.

A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise, senior,
a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words, which
he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote down
in French characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén apsychian."

He asked him what that meant.

M. de Saumaise told him it meant, "Save yourself; do you not perceive the death
with which you are threatened?" Upon this hint, the man removed, and
left his house, which fell down the following night.[287]

The same story is related, with a little difference, by another author,
who says that the circumstance happened at Paris;[288] that the genius
spoke in Syriac, and that M. de Saumaise being consulted, replied,
"Go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day, at nine o'clock
in the evening."

It is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to
add a few circumstances by way of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going one
day to Nismes, with one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the latter,
having heard Peiresch talking in his sleep in the night, waked him,
and asked him what he said.

Peiresch answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered
me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as
I was going to count him down his money, you waked me, to my great
regret."

They arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized
the goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him
if he had nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal,
or coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns.
Peiresch paid them, and was delighted to see his dream so happily
accomplished.

Here is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a little
in the same style.[289] A learned man of Dijon, after having wearied
himself all day with an important passage in a Greek poet, without
being able to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During
his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm, introduced
him into the palace of Queen Christina, conducted him into the library,
and showed him a small volume, which was precisely what he sought.

He opened it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely
cleared up the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke,
and wrote down the verses he had seen at Stockholm.

On the morrow, he wrote to M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and begged
of him to look in such a place, and in such a division of the library,
if the book, of which he sent him the description, were there, and
if the Greek verses which he sent him were to be read in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also
the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one
of his friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would
send it him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of
Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but did not
lead him to do others.

It
is asserted[290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army, commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying like
the others, with this Athenian general, and being arrived at a spot where several roads met, Socrates
would not follow the road taken by the other fugitives; and when they asked him the reason, he replied,
because his genius drew him away from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other
road were either killed or made prisoners by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful whether the elves, of which so many things are related,
are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church admits nothing between
these two kinds of genii. Every genius is either good or bad; but as there
are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says,[291] and as there
are among the blessed, various degrees of glory, differing from each
other, so we may believe that there are in hell various degrees of
pain and punishment for the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible, and divert themselves
in disquieting the living? Why do they attach themselves to certain spots,
and certain persons, rather than to others?

Why do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain time,
and that sometimes a short space?

I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy and
prejudice; but their reality has been so often experienced by the
discourse they have held, and the actions they have performed in
the presence of many wise and enlightened persons, that I cannot persuade
myself that among the great number of stories related of them there
are not at least some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good,
to prayer, or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions.

If they do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments of the damned, on the efficacy
of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt not those men or animals which
are found on the spot where they may be perceived, it is because God
sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us.

All those to whom these genii attach themselves have a horror of them,
mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that these familiar
demons do not lead them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves
from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me, "I no more doubt the truth of than
if I had been a witness of it."

Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers, was in winter quarters in Flanders.
One of his men came to him one day to beg that he would change his
landlord, saying that every night there came into his bed-room a spirit,
which would not allow him to sleep.

The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity. Some days after, the same horseman
came back and made the same request to him; the only reply of the
captain would have been a volley of blows with a stick, had not the
soldier avoided them by a prompt flight.

At last, he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to
his captain that he could bear it no longer, and should be obliged
to desert if his lodgings were not changed.

Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said
to him, with an oath, "I will go this night and sleep with you, and
see what is the matter."

At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table,
he lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a moment turned the bed upside down, covering
the captain and the soldier with the mattress and paillasse.

Despilliers had great trouble to disengage himself and find again
his sword and pistols, and he returned home much confounded.

The horse-soldier
had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly in the house
of his new host.

M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen to
it.

He was an intrepid man, who had never known what it was to fall back before
danger.

He died field-marshal of the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. and
governor of the fortress of Ségedin.

His son has confirmed this adventure to me within a short time, as having heard
it from his father.

The person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes return;
but I have found myself in a great many places which it was said
they haunted. I have even tried several times to see them, but I have
never seen any.

I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who all
said they saw the spirit; I was the only one in the assembly who
saw nothing."

So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same
letter wherein he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes:

[284] St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. ii. c.
2.

[286] Guillelm. Paris,
2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8.

[287] Grot. Epist.

Part. ii. Ep. 405.

[288] They affirm that it happened at Dijon, in the family of the
MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory
of the circumstance.

[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p.
55.

[290] Cicero, de Divinat.
lib. i.

[291] John xiv. 2.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH OVER TREASURE.

Everybody
acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches buried in the earth,
or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the demon,
whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon, the Pluto
of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian, of these
treasures. We know also that the ancients very often interred vast
treasures in the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make
use of them in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard
over them in those gloomy places. Job seems to make allusion to this
ancient custom, when he says,[293] "Would to God I had never been
born: I should now sleep with the kings and great ones of the earth,
who built themselves solitary places; like unto those who seek for
treasure, and are rejoiced when they find a tomb;" doubtless because
they hope to find great riches therein.

There were very precious
things in the tomb of Cyrus.  For a modern reader the
perusal of Homer results incontestably in immense boredom; but who would venture to say so?
The Parthenon, in its present state, is a wretched ruin, utterly destitute of interest, but
it is endowed with such prestige that it does not appear to us as it really is, but with all
its accompaniment of historic memories.  The special characteristic of prestige is to prevent
us seeing things as they are and to entirely paralyse our judgment.  Crowds always, and individuals
as a rule, stand in need of ready-made opinions on all subjects.  The popularity of these opinions
is independent of the measure of truth or error they contain, and is solely regulated by their
prestige.

I now come to personal prestige.  Its nature is very different from that of artificial or acquired
prestige, with which I have just been concerned.  It is a faculty independent of all titles,
of all authority, and possessed by a small number of persons whom it enables to exercise a
veritably magnetic fascination on those around them, although they are socially their equals,
and lack all ordinary means of domination.  They force the acceptance of their ideas and sentiments
on those about them, and they are obeyed as is the tamer of wild beasts by the animal that
could easily devour him.

The great leaders of crowds, such as Buddha, Jesus, Mahomet, Joan of Arc, and Napoleon, have
possessed this form of prestige in a high degree, and to this endowment is more particularly
due the position they attained.  Gods, heroes, and dogmas win their way in the world of their
own inward strength.  They are not to be discussed: they disappear, indeed, as soon as discussed.

The great personages I have just cited were in possession of their power of fascination long
before they became illustrious, and would never have become so without it.  It is evident,
for instance, that Napoleon at the zenith of his glory enjoyed an immense prestige by the mere
fact of his power, but he was already endowed in part with this prestige when he was without
power and completely unknown.  When, an obscure general, he was sent, thanks to influential
protection, to command the army of Italy, he found himself among rough generals who were of
a mind to give a hostile reception to the young intruder dispatched them by the Directory.
From the very beginning, from the first interview, without the aid of speeches, gestures, or
threats, at the first sight of the man who was to become great they were vanquished.  Taine
furnishes a curious account of this interview taken from contemporary memoirs.

"The generals of division, amongst others Augereau, a sort of swashbuckler, uncouth and heroic,
proud of his height and his bravery, arrive at the staff quarters very badly disposed towards
the little upstart dispatched them from Paris.  On the strength of the description of him that
has been given them, Augereau is inclined to be insolent and insubordinate; a favourite of
Barras, a general who owes his rank to the events of Vendemiaire who has won his grade by street-fighting,
who is looked upon as bearish, because he is always thinking in solitude, of poor aspect, and
with the reputation of a mathematician and dreamer.  They are introduced, and Bonaparte keeps
them waiting.  At last he appears, girt with his sword; he puts on his hat, explains the measures
he has taken, gives his orders, and dismisses them. Augereau has remained silent; it is only
when he is outside that he regains his self-possession and is able to deliver himself of his
customary oaths.  He admits with Massena that this little devil of a general has inspired him
with awe; he cannot understand the ascendency by which from the very first he has felt himself
overwhelmed."

Become a great man, his prestige increased in proportion as his glory grew, and came to be
at least equal to that of a divinity in the eyes of those devoted to him.

Napoleon exercised a like fascination on all who came into contact with him.[19]

[19] Thoroughly conscious of his prestige, Napoleon was aware that he added to it by treating
rather worse than stable lads the great personages around him, and among whom figured some
of those celebrated men of the Convention of whom Europe had stood in dread.  The gossip of
the period abounds in illustrations of this fact.  One day, in the midst of a Council of State,
Napoleon grossly insults Beugnot, treating him as one might an unmannerly valet. How can this difficulty
be got over? The truth is, that unless all constitutional impediments in respect to forms be set aside,
and the people take it in hand to amend the constitution on revolutionary principles, there can be no
end of agitation on this subject in less than three years. I long since ventured the prediction
that there would be no settlement of the difficulties in Kansas until the next presidential election. To
continue the agitation is too important to the interests of both the great parties of the country to
dispense with it, as long as any pretext can be found for prolonging
it. In the closing debate on the Kansas-Nebraska Bill, I told its supporters
that they could do nothing more certain to disturb the composure
of the two Senators who sat on the opposite side of the chamber, the
one from Massachusetts [Mr. Sumner] and the other from Ohio [Mr. Chase],
than to reject that bill.

Its passage was the only thing in the range of possible events by
which their political fortunes could be resuscitated, so completely
had the Free-Soil movement at the North been paralyzed by the compromise
measures of 1850.

I say now
to the advocates of this measure, if they want to strengthen the
Republican party, and give the reins of government into their hands,
pass this bill.

If they desire to weaken the power of that party, and arrest the progress
of slavery agitation, reject it.

And if it is their policy to put an end to the agitation connected with Kansas affairs at the earliest
day practicable, as they say it is, then let them remit this constitution back to the people of Kansas,
for their ratification or rejection.

In that way the whole difficulty will be settled before the adjournment of the present session of Congress,
without the violation of any sound principle, or the sacrifice of the rights of either section of the
Union.

But the President informs us that threatening and ominous clouds impend over
the country; and he fears that if Kansas is not admitted under the Lecompton
constitution, slavery agitation will be revived in a more dangerous
form than it has ever yet assumed. There may be grounds for that opinion,
for aught I know; but it seems to me that if any of the States of
the South have taken any position on this question which endangers
the peace of the country, they could not have been informed of the
true condition of affairs in Kansas, and of the strong objections
which may be urged on principle against the acceptance by Congress
of the Lecompton constitution.

And I have such confidence in the intelligence of the people of the whole South, that when the history
and character of this instrument shall be known, even those who would
be glad to find some plausible pretext for dissolving the Union will see
that its rejection by Congress would not furnish them with such a one as
they could make available for their purposes.

When the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was under discussion, in 1854, in looking
to all the consequences which might follow the adoption of that measure,
I could not overlook the fact that a sentiment of hostility to the
Union was widely diffused in certain States of the South; and that
that sentiment was only prevented from assuming an organized form of resistance
to the authority of the Federal government, at least in one of the
States, in 1851, by the earnest remonstrance of a sister State, that
was supposed to sympathize with her in the project of establishing
a southern republic.

Nor could I fail to remember that the project--I speak of the convention
held in South Carolina, in pursuance of an act of the legislature--was
then postponed, not dropped.

The argument was successfully urged that an enterprise of such magnitude
ought not to be entered upon without the co-operation of a greater
number of States than they could then certainly count upon.

It was urged that all the cotton-planting States would, before a great
while, be prepared to unite in the movement, and that they, by the
force of circumstances, would bring in all the slaveholding States.

The ground was openly taken, that separation was an inevitable necessity. It was only a question of time. It
was said that no new aggression was necessary on the part of the North to justify such a step. It was
said that the operation of this government from its foundation had
been adverse to southern interests; and that the admission of California
as a free State, and the attempt to exclude the citizens of the South,
with their property, from all the territory acquired from Mexico,
was a sufficient justification for disunion.

It was not a mere menace to deter the North from further aggressions.

These circumstances made a deep impression on my mind at the time,
and from a period long anterior to that I had known that it was a
maxim with the most skillful tacticians among those who desire separation,
that the slaveholding States must be united--consolidated into one
party.

That object once effected, disunion, it was supposed, would follow
without difficulty.

I had my fears that the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was expected to consolidate
the South, and to pave the way for the accomplishment of ulterior
plans by some of the most active supporters of that measure from the
South; and these fears I indicated in the closing debate on that subject.

Some of the supporters of that measure, I fear, are reluctant now to abandon
the chances of finding some pretext for agitating the subject of
separation in the South in the existing complications of the Kansas
embroilment.

To what extent the idea of disunion is entertained in some of the Southern
States, and what importance is attached to the policy of uniting the whole
South in one party as a preliminary step, may be inferred from a speech delivered
before the Southern convention lately held in Knoxville, Tenn., by
Mr. De Bow, the president of the convention, and the editor of a popular
Southern review.

I will only refer now to the fate to which the author resigns those
who dare to break the ranks of that solid phalanx in which he thinks
the South should be combined--that is, to be "held up to public scorn
and public punishment as traitors and Tories, more steeped in guilt
than those of the Revolution itself."

The honorable Senator from New York further announced to us in exultant
tones, that "at last there was a North side of this Chamber, a North
side of the Chamber of the House of Representatives, and a North side of
the Union, as well as a South side of all these"; and he admonished
us that the time was at hand when freedom would assert its influence
in the regulation of the domestic and foreign policy of the country.

When was there a time in the history of the government that there was no North
side of this Chamber and of the other? When was there a time that
there was not a proud array of Northern men in both Chambers, distinguished
by their genius and ability, devoted to the interests of the North,
and successful in maintaining them?

Though it may be true that Southern men have filled the executive chair for
much the larger portion of the time that has elapsed since the organization
of the government, yet when, in what instance was it, that a Southerner
has been elevated to that high station without the support of a majority
of the freemen of the North?

Do you of the North complain that the policy of the government, under
the long-continued influence of Southern Presidents, has been injurious
or fatal to your interests?

Has it paralyzed your industry? Has it crippled your resources?

Has it impaired your energies? Has it checked your progress in any
one department of human effort?

Let
your powerful mercantile marine, your ships whitening every sea--the
fruit of wise commercial regulations and navigation laws; let your flourishing
agriculture, your astonishing progress in manufacturing skill, your
great canals, your thousands of miles of railroads, your vast trade,
internal and external, your proud cities, and your accumulated millions
of moneyed capital, ready to be invested in profitable enterprises
in any part of the world, answer that question.

Do you complain of a narrow and jealous policy under Southern rule,
in extending and opening new fields of enterprise to your hardy sons
in the great West, along the line of the great chain of American
lakes, even to the head waters of the Father of Rivers, and over the
rich and fertile plains stretching southward from the lake shores?

Let the teeming populations--let the hundreds of millions of annual products
that have succeeded to the but recent dreary and unproductive haunts
of the red man--answer that question. That very preponderance of free
States which the Senator from New York contemplates with such satisfaction,
and which has moved him exultingly to exclaim that there is at last
a North side of this Chamber, has been hastened by the liberal policy of Southern
Presidents and Southern statesmen; and has it become the ambition
of that Senator to unite and combine all this great, rich, and powerful
North in the policy of crippling the resources and repressing the
power of the South?

Is this to be the one idea which is to mold the policy of the government,
when that gentleman and his friends shall control it?

If it be, then I appeal to the better feelings and the better judgment of his followers to arrest him in his
mad career.

Sir, let us have some brief interval of repose at least from this eternal
agitation of the slavery question. Let power go into whatever hands it may,
let us save the Union!

I have all the confidence other gentlemen can have in the extent to which this
Union is intrenched in the hearts of the great mass of the people
of the North and South; but when I reflect upon and consider the desperate
and dangerous extremes to which ambitious party leaders are often prepared
to go, without meaning to do the country any mischief, in the struggle
for the imperial power, the crown of the American presidency, I sometimes
tremble for its fate.

Two great parties are now dividing the Union on this question. It is
evident to every man of sense, who examines it, that practically, in respect
to slavery, the result will be the same both to North and South;
Kansas will be a free State, no matter what may be the decision on
this question.

But how that decision may affect the fortunes of those parties, is
not certain; and there is the chief difficulty.

But the greatest question of all is, How will that decision affect
the country as a whole?

Two adverse yet concurrent and mighty forces are driving the vessel
of State towards the rocks upon which she must split, unless she
receives timely aid--a paradox, yet expressive of a momentous and
perhaps a fatal truth.

There is no hope of rescue unless the sober-minded men, both of the North
and South, shall, by some sufficient influence, be brought to adopt
the wise maxims and sage counsels of the great founders of our government.

TRANS-CONTINENTAL

RAILROADS (Delivered in the United States Senate, February 17th, 1858. in Support of
the Pacific Railroad Bill)

An objection made to this bill is, the gigantic scale of the projected
enterprise.

A grand idea it is. A continent of three thousand miles in extent from east
to west, reaching from the Atlantic to the Pacific, is to be connected by
a railway!

Honorable Senators will remember, that over one thousand miles--one-third
of this whole expanse of the continent--the work is already accomplished,
and that chiefly by private enterprise.

I may, as a safe estimate, say, that a thousand miles of this railroad leading from the Atlantic to
the West, upon the line of the lakes, and nearly as much upon a line further south, are either completed,
or nearly so.

We have two thousand miles yet to compass, in the execution of a work which
it is said has no parallel in the history of the world.

No, sir; it has no parallel in the history of the world, ancient or
modern, either as to its extent and magnitude, or to its consequences, beneficent
and benignant in all its bearings on the interests of all mankind.

It is in these aspects, and in the contemplation of these consequences,
that it has no parallel in the history of the world--changing the course
of the commerce of the world--bringing the West almost in contact,
by reversing the ancient line of communication, with the gorgeous
East, and all its riches, the stories of which, in our earlier days
we regarded as fabulous; but now, sir, what was held to be merely
fictions of the brain in former times, in regard to the riches of
Eastern Asia, is almost realized on our own western shores.

Sir, these are some of the inducements to the construction of this great road, besides its importance to
the military defenses of the country, and its mail communications. Sir, it is
a magnificent and splendid project in every aspect in which you can
view it.

One-third
of this great railway connection is accomplished; two-thirds remain
to be. Shall we hesitate to go forward with the work?

Now, with regard to the means provided for the construction of the road. It is said, here is
an enormous expenditure of the public money proposed. We propose to
give twenty millions of dollars in the bonds of the government, bearing
five per cent. interest, and fifteen millions of acres of land, supposed
to be worth as much more, on the part of the government.

This is said to be enormous, and we are reminded that we ought to
look at what the people will say, and how they will feel when they
come to the knowledge that twenty millions in money and twenty millions
in land have been given for the construction of a railway!

Some doubtless there are in this chamber who are ready to contend that
we had better give these fifteen millions of acres of land to become
homesteads for the landless and homeless.

What is this twenty millions in money, and how is it to be paid? It is
supposed that the road cannot be constructed in less than five years. In that
event, bonds of the government to the amount of four millions of
dollars will issue annually.

Probably the road will not be built in less than ten years, and that will require an issue of
bonds amounting to two millions a year; and possibly the road may not be finished in less than twenty
years, which would limit the annual issue of bonds to one million.

The interest upon these bonds, at five per cent, will of course have
to be paid out of the treasury, a treasury in which there is now a surplus
of twelve or fourteen millions of dollars. When the road is completed
and the whole amount of twenty millions in lands is paid, making
the whole sum advanced by the government forty millions, the annual
interest upon them will only be two millions.

And what is that?

Why, sir, the donations and benevolences, the allowances of claims upon
flimsy and untenable grounds, and other extravagant and unnecessary
expenditures that are granted by Congress and the executive departments,
while you have an overflowing treasury, will amount to the half of
that sum annually.

The enormous sum of two millions is proposed to be paid out of the treasury annually, when this great road
shall be completed! It is a tremendous undertaking, truly! What a scheme! What extravagance!
I understand the cost of the New York and Erie road alone, constructed
principally by private enterprise, has been not less than thirty millions--between
thirty and thirty-three millions of dollars.

That work was constructed by a single State giving aid occasionally to
a company, which supplied the balance of the cost.

I understand that the road from Baltimore to Wheeling, when it shall
have been finished, and its furniture placed upon it, will have cost
at least thirty millions.

What madness, what extravagance, then, is it for the government of the United States to undertake to
expend forty millions for a road from the Mississippi to the Pacific.

Mr. President, one honorable Senator says the amount is not sufficient
to induce a capitalist to invest his money in the enterprise. Others,
again, say it is far too much; more than we can afford to give for
the construction of the work.

Let us see which is right. The government is to give twenty millions
in all out of the treasury for the road; or we issue bonds and pay
five per cent, interest annually upon them, and twenty millions in
lands, which, if regarded as money, amounts to a cost to the government
of two millions per annum.

What are the objects to be accomplished? A daily mail from the valley
of the Mississippi to the Pacific; the free transportation of all troops
and munitions of war required for the protection and defense of our possessions
on the Pacific; which we could not hold three months in a war either
with England or France, without such a road.

By building this
road we accomplish this further object: This road will be the most effective and powerful check
that can be interposed by the government upon Indian depredations and aggressions upon our frontiers
or upon each other; the northern tribes upon the southern, and the southern
upon the northern.

You cut them in two.

You will be constantly in their midst, and cut off their intercommunication and hostile depredations. You will
have a line of quasi fortifications, a line of posts and stations, with settlements on each side of the road. Every few miles
you will thus have settlements strong enough to defend themselves
against inroads of the Indians, and so constituting a wall of separation
between the Indian tribes, composed of a white population, with arms
in their hands.

This object alone would, perhaps, be worth as much as the road will cost; and when I speak of
what the road will be worth in this respect, I mean to say, that besides the prevention of savage
warfare, the effusion of blood, it will save millions of dollars to the treasury annually, in the greater economy
attained in moving troops and military supplies and preventing hostilities.

.
. .

I have been thus particular in noting these things because I want to show
where or on which side the balance will be found in the adjustment of
the responsibility account between the friends and the opponents
of this measure--which will have the heaviest account to settle with
the country.

For myself, I am not wedded to this particular scheme. Rather than have
no road, I would prefer to adopt other projects. I am now advocating
one which I supposed would meet the views of a greater number of Senators than
any other.

I think great honor is due to Mr. Whitney for having originated the scheme, and having obtained the sanction
of the legislatures of seventeen or eighteen States of the Union. Rather
than have the project altogether fail, I would be willing to adopt
this plan.

It may not offer the same advantages for a speedy consummation of the
work; but still, we would have a road in prospect, and that would be
a great deal. But if gentlemen are to rise here in their places year
after year--and this is the fifth year from the time we ought to
have undertaken this work--and tell us it is just time to commence
a survey, we will never have a road.

The honorable Senator from South Carolina [Mr. Butler] says there
ought to be some limitation in this idea of progress, when regarded
as a spur to great activity and energy, as to what we shall do in
our day.

He says we have acquired California; we have opened up those rich regions on our western borders, which promises
such magnificent results; and he asks, is not that enough for the present generation? Leave it to the
nest generation to construct a work of such magnitude as this--requiring forty millions of dollars
from the government.

Mr. President, I have said that if the condition was a road or no road, I would
regard one hundred and fifty millions of dollars as well laid out by the
government for the work; though I have no idea that it will take
such an amount.

Eighty
or one hundred millions of dollars will build the road.

But with regard to what is due from this generation to itself, or what may be left to the next generation,
I say it is for the present generation that we want the road. As to our having acquired California, and opened
this new world of commerce and enterprise, and as to what we shall leave to the next generation, I say
that, after we of this generation shall have constructed this road, we will, perhaps, not even leave
to the next generation the construction of a second one. The present generation, in my opinion, will not pass
away until it shall have seen two great lines of railroads in prosperous operation between the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans, and within our own territory, and still leave quite enough to the next generation--the
third and fourth great lines of communication between the two extremes
of the continent.

One, at least, is due to ourselves, and to the present generation; and
I hope there are many within the sound of my voice who will live to see
it accomplished. We want that new Dorado, the new Ophir of America, to be thrown
open and placed within the reach of the whole people. We want the
great cost, the delays, as well as the privations and risks of a
passage to California, by the malarious Isthmus of Panama, or any
other of the routes now in use, to be mitigated, or done away with.

There will be some greater equality in the enjoyment and advantages of these new acquisitions upon the
Pacific coast when this road shall be constructed. The inexhaustible
gold mines, or placers of California, will no longer be accessible only
to the more robust, resolute, or desperate part of our population,
and who may be already well enough off to pay their passage by sea,
or provide an outfit for an overland travel of two and three thousand
miles.

Enterprising young men all over the country, who can command the pittance of forty or fifty dollars to pay
their railroad fare; heads of families who have the misfortune to
be poor, but spirit and energy enough to seek comfort and independence
by labor, will no longer be restrained by the necessity of separating
themselves from their families, but have it in their power, with such
small means as they may readily command, in eight or ten days, to
find themselves with their whole households transported and set down
in the midst of the gold regions of the West, at full liberty to possess
and enjoy whatever of the rich harvest spread out before them their
industry and energy shall entitle them to.

It will be theirs by as good a title as any can boast who have had
the means to precede them.

We hear much said of late of the justice and policy of providing a homestead, a quarter section of the
public land, to every poor and landless family in the country.

Make this road, and you enable every poor man in the country to buy
a much better homestead, and retain all the pride and spirit of independence.

Gentlemen here may say that the region of California, so inviting,
and abundant in gold now, will soon be exhausted, and all these bright
prospects for the enterprising poor pass away.

No, sir; centuries will pass--ages and ages must roll away before those
gold-bearing mountains shall all have been excavated--those auriferous
sands and alluvial deposits shall give out all their wealth; and
even after all these shall have failed, the beds of the rivers will
yield a generous return to the toil of the laborer.


We observe with astonishment the prominent men of the Convention, the sworn enemies of kings,
men who would have neither gods nor masters, become the humble servants of Napoleon, and afterwards,
under Louis XVIII., piously carry candles in religious processions.

Numerous, too, are the changes in the opinions of the crowd in the course of the following
seventy years.  The "Perfidious Albion" of the opening of the century is the ally of France
under Napoleon's heir; Russia, twice invaded by France, which looked on with satisfaction at
French reverses, becomes its friend.

In literature, art, and philosophy the successive evolutions of opinion are more rapid still.
Romanticism, naturalism, mysticism, &c., spring up and die out in turn.  The artist and the
writer applauded yesterday are treated on the morrow with profound contempt.

When, however, we analyse all these changes in appearance so far reaching, what do we find?
All those that are in opposition with the general beliefs and sentiments of the race are of
transient duration, and the diverted stream soon resumes its course.  The opinions which are
not linked to any general belief or sentiment of the race, and which in consequence cannot
possess stability, are at the mercy of every chance, or, if the expression be preferred, of
every change in the surrounding circumstances. Formed by suggestion and contagion, they are
always momentary; they crop up and disappear as rapidly on occasion as the sandhills formed
by the wind on the sea-coast.

At the present day the changeable opinions of crowds are greater in number than they ever were,
and for three different reasons.

The first is that as the old beliefs are losing their influence to a greater and greater extent,
they are ceasing to shape the ephemeral opinions of the moment as they did in the past.  The
weakening of general beliefs clears the ground for a crop of haphazard opinions without a past
or a future.

The second reason is that the power of crowds being on the increase, and this power being less
and less counterbalanced, the extreme mobility of ideas, which we have seen to be a peculiarity
of crowds, can manifest itself without let or hindrance.

Finally, the third reason is the recent development of the newspaper press, by whose agency
the most contrary opinions are being continually brought before the attention of crowds.  The
suggestions that might result from each individual opinion are soon destroyed by suggestions
of an opposite character.  The consequence is that no opinion succeeds in becoming widespread,
and that the existence of all of them is ephemeral.  An opinion nowadays dies out before it
has found a sufficiently wide acceptance to become general.

A phenomenon quite new in the world's history, and most characteristic of the present age,
has resulted from these different causes; I allude to the powerlessness of governments to direct
opinion.

In the past, and in no very distant past, the action of governments and the influence of a
few writers and a very small number of newspapers constituted the real reflectors of public
opinion.  To-day the writers have lost all influence, and the newspapers only reflect opinion.
As for statesmen, far from directing opinion, their only endeavour is to follow it.  They have
a dread of opinion, which amounts at times to terror, and causes them to adopt an utterly unstable
line of conduct.

The opinion of crowds tends, then, more and more to become the supreme guiding principle in
politics.  It goes so far to-day as to force on alliances, as has been seen recently in the
case of the Franco-Russian alliance, which is solely the outcome of a popular movement.  A
curious symptom of the present time is to observe popes, kings, and emperors consent to be
interviewed as a means of submitting their views on a given subject to the judgment of crowds.
Formerly it might have been correct to say that politics were not a matter of sentiment.  Can
the same be said to-day, when politics are more and more swayed by the impulse of changeable
crowds, who are uninfluenced by reason and can only be guided by sentiment?

As to the press, which formerly directed opinion, it has had, like governments, to humble itself
before the power of crowds. It wields, no doubt, a considerable influence, but only because
it is exclusively the reflection of the opinions of crowds and of their incessant variations.
Become a mere agency for the supply of information, the press has renounced all endeavour to
enforce an idea or a doctrine.  It follows all the changes of public thought, obliged to do
so by the necessities of competition under pain of losing its readers.  The old staid and influential
organs of the past, such as the Constitutionnel, the Debats, or the Siecle, which were accepted
as oracles by the preceding generation, have disappeared or have become typical modern papers,
in which a maximum of news is sandwiched in between light articles, society gossip, and financial
puffs.  There can be no question to-day of a paper rich enough to allow its contributors to
air their personal opinions, and such opinions would be of slight weight with readers who only
ask to be kept informed or to be amused, and who suspect every affirmation of being prompted
by motives of speculation.  Even the critics have ceased to be able to assure the success of
a book or a play.  They are capable of doing harm, but not of doing a service.  The papers
are so conscious of the uselessness of everything in the shape of criticism or personal opinion,
that they have reached the point of suppressing literary criticism, confining themselves to
citing the title of a book, and appending a "puff" of two or three lines.[22]  In twenty years'
time the same fate will probably have overtaken theatrical criticism.

[22] These remarks refer to the French newspaper press.--Note of the Translator.

The close watching of the course of opinion has become to-day the principal preoccupation of
the press and of governments.  The effect produced by an event, a legislative proposal, a speech,
is without intermission what they require to know, and the task is not easy, for nothing is
more mobile and changeable than the thought of crowds, and nothing more frequent than to see
them execrate to-day what they applauded yesterday. 

What is the relation of constancy and faithfulness to the safety of
the Republic?

(Woodburn,
page 338.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1.

Which party occupies the dominant position in the political life
of your community?

Find out why it holds this position.

2.

The history of
third parties in your section, i.e., parties other than the Democratic and
Republican parties.

3.

The organization of any political party having official representatives
in your community.

4.

The work of local political committees in your community immediately
preceding election.

5.

Corrupt practices acts in your state.

6. The Civil Service System in your state.

7. Make a study of the different political parties with a view to determining
which you would prefer to join.

II

8.

Origin and growth of parties in
the United States. (Beard, American Government and Politics, pages 103-108;
Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter xxxvi;
Bryce, The American Commonwealth, vol. ii, chapters liii and liv;
Ford, The Rise and Growth of American Politics, chapter vii.)

9.

Characteristics of the political party.

(Ray, Introduction to
Political Parties and Practical Politics, chapter i.)

10.

Distrust of parties
in our early history. (Jones, Readings on Parties and Elections in
the United States, pages 28 36.)

11.

The spoils system.

(Bryce, The American Commonwealth, vol. ii, chapters lxv and lxvii;
Ray, Introduction to Political Parties and Practical Politics, chapter
xiv.)

12.

"Why
the best men do not go into politics." (Bryce, The American Commonwealth,
vol. ii, chapter lviii.)

13.

Campaign contributions.

(Brooks, Corruption in American Politics and Life.)

14.

The party ring.

(Bryce,
The American Commonwealth, vol. ii, chapters lxiii and lxiv.)

15. The state boss. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government,
pages 432-434; Ray, Introduction to Political Parties and Practical
Politics, chapter xvi.)

16.

How the party machine works.

(Ford,
The Rise and Growth of American Politics, pages 294-333; Kaye, Readings
in Civil Governments, pages 373-377; Jones, Readings on Parties and
Elections in the United States, pages 175-178; Lowell, Public Opinion
and Popular Government, chapter vi.)

17.

Party government in England and in the United States.

(Jones, Readings on Parties and Elections in the United States, pages
I-II.)

18. The struggle for good government. (Hammond and Jenks, Great American
Issues, chapter v.)

20. The citizen and the party.

(Bryce, Hindrances
to Good Citizenship, all; Hughes, Conditions of Progress in Democratic
Government, lectures in and iv; Root, Addressee on Government and
Citizenship, pages 1-77.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

21.

Do third parties serve a useful
purpose?

22. Should we pass laws limiting the total amount
which any political candidate may spend in the campaign for nomination
and election?

23. What are the advantages and disadvantages of placing party emblems
at the head of ballots?

24.  It is certain that men of immense,
of almost supernatural insight, that apostles, leaders of crowds--men, in a word, of genuine
and strong convictions--exert a far greater force than men who deny, who criticise, or who
are indifferent, but it must not be forgotten that, given the power possessed at present by
crowds, were a single opinion to acquire sufficient prestige to enforce its general acceptance,
it would soon be endowed with so tyrannical a strength that everything would have to bend before
it, and the era of free discussion would be closed for a long time.  Crowds are occasionally
easy-going masters, as were Heliogabalus and Tiberius, but they are also violently capricious.
A civilisation, when the moment has come for crowds to acquire a high hand over it, is at the
mercy of too many chances to endure for long.  Could anything postpone for a while the hour
of its ruin, it would be precisely the extreme instability of the opinions of crowds and their
growing indifference with respect to all general beliefs.   1. HETEROGENEOUS CROWDS.  Different
varieties of them--The influence of race--The spirit of the crowd is weak in proportion as
the spirit of the race is strong--The spirit of the race represents the civilised state and
the spirit of the crowd the barbarian state.   2. HOMOGENEOUS CROWDS.  Their different varieties--Sects,
castes, and classes.

We have sketched in this work the general characteristics common to psychological crowds. 
It remains to point out the particular characteristics which accompany those of a general order
in the different categories of collectivities, when they are transformed into a crowd under
the influences of the proper exciting causes. We will, first of all, set forth in a few words
a classification of crowds.

Our starting-point will be the simple multitude.  Its most inferior form is met with when the
multitude is composed of individuals belonging to different races.  In this case its only common
bond of union is the will, more or less respected of a chief.  The barbarians of very diverse
origin who during several centuries invaded the Roman Empire, may be cited as a specimen of
multitudes of this kind.

On a higher level than these multitudes composed of different races are those which under certain
influences have acquired common characteristics, and have ended by forming a single race. They
present at times characteristics peculiar to crowds, but these characteristics are overruled
to a greater or less extent by racial considerations.

These two kinds of multitudes may, under certain influences investigated in this work, be transformed
into organised or psychological crowds.  We shall break up these organised crowds into the
following divisions:--

                         1. Anonymous crowds (street
                           crowds, for example).
A. Heterogeneous         2. Crowds not anonymous
    crowds.                 (juries, parliamentary assemblies,
                             &c.).
                          1. Sects (political sects,
                             religious sects, &c.).
                          2. Castes (the military caste,
B. Homogeneous               the priestly caste, the
    crowds.                  working caste, &c.).
                          3. Classes (the middle classes,
                             the peasant classes, &c.).

We will point out briefly the distinguishing characteristics of these different categories
of crowds.

1. HETEROGENEOUS CROWDS

It is these collectivities whose characteristics have been studied in this volume.  They are
composed of individuals of any description, of any profession, and any degree of intelligence. 

How can this difficulty be got over? The truth is, that unless all constitutional impediments in respect
to forms be set aside, and the people take it in hand to amend the constitution on revolutionary principles,
there can be no end of agitation on this subject in less than three years. I long since ventured the
prediction that there would be no settlement of the difficulties in
Kansas until the next presidential election.

To continue the agitation is too important to the interests of both the great
parties of the country to dispense with it, as long as any pretext
can be found for prolonging it. In the closing debate on the Kansas-Nebraska
Bill, I told its supporters that they could do nothing more certain
to disturb the composure of the two Senators who sat on the opposite
side of the chamber, the one from Massachusetts [Mr. Sumner] and the
other from Ohio [Mr. Chase], than to reject that bill.

Its passage was the only thing in the range of possible events by
which their political fortunes could be resuscitated, so completely
had the Free-Soil movement at the North been paralyzed by the compromise
measures of 1850.

I say now to the advocates of this measure, if they want to strengthen
the Republican party, and give the reins of government into their
hands, pass this bill.

If they desire to weaken the power of that party, and arrest the progress of slavery agitation, reject
it.

And if it is their policy to put an end to the agitation connected with Kansas affairs at the earliest
day practicable, as they say it is, then let them remit this constitution back to the people
of Kansas, for their ratification or rejection.

In that way the whole difficulty will be settled before the adjournment of the
present session of Congress, without the violation of any sound principle,
or the sacrifice of the rights of either section of the Union.

But the President informs us that threatening and ominous clouds
impend over the country; and he fears that if Kansas is not admitted
under the Lecompton constitution, slavery agitation will be revived
in a more dangerous form than it has ever yet assumed.

There may be grounds for that opinion, for aught I know; but it seems to me that if any of
the States of the South have taken any position on this question which endangers the peace of the
country, they could not have been informed of the true condition of affairs in Kansas, and of the strong
objections which may be urged on principle against the acceptance
by Congress of the Lecompton constitution.

And I have such confidence in the intelligence of the people of the
whole South, that when the history and character of this instrument shall
be known, even those who would be glad to find some plausible pretext
for dissolving the Union will see that its rejection by Congress would
not furnish them with such a one as they could make available for
their purposes.

When the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was under discussion, in 1854, in looking to
all the consequences which might follow the adoption of that measure,
I could not overlook the fact that a sentiment of hostility to the
Union was widely diffused in certain States of the South; and that
that sentiment was only prevented from assuming an organized form
of resistance to the authority of the Federal government, at least in
one of the States, in 1851, by the earnest remonstrance of a sister
State, that was supposed to sympathize with her in the project of
establishing a southern republic.

Nor could I fail to remember that the project--I speak of the convention
held in South Carolina, in pursuance of an act of the legislature--was
then postponed, not dropped. The argument was successfully urged that an
enterprise of such magnitude ought not to be entered upon without the
co-operation of a greater number of States than they could then certainly
count upon.

It was urged that all the cotton-planting States would, before a great while,
be prepared to unite in the movement, and that they, by the force
of circumstances, would bring in all the slaveholding States.

The ground was openly taken, that separation was an inevitable necessity.
It was only a question of time. It was said that no new aggression was
necessary on the part of the North to justify such a step. It was
said that the operation of this government from its foundation had
been adverse to southern interests; and that the admission of California
as a free State, and the attempt to exclude the citizens of the South,
with their property, from all the territory acquired from Mexico,
was a sufficient justification for disunion.

It was not a mere menace to deter the North from further aggressions.
These circumstances made a deep impression on my mind at the time, and
from a period long anterior to that I had known that it was a maxim
with the most skillful tacticians among those who desire separation,
that the slaveholding States must be united--consolidated into one
party.

That object once effected, disunion, it was supposed, would follow
without difficulty.

I had my fears that the Kansas-Nebraska Bill was expected to consolidate
the South, and to pave the way for the accomplishment of ulterior
plans by some of the most active supporters of that measure from
the South; and these fears I indicated in the closing debate on that subject.
Some of the supporters of that measure, I fear, are reluctant now to abandon
the chances of finding some pretext for agitating the subject of
separation in the South in the existing complications of the Kansas
embroilment.

To what extent the idea of disunion is entertained in some of the Southern States,
and what importance is attached to the policy of uniting the whole
South in one party as a preliminary step, may be inferred from a speech
delivered before the Southern convention lately held in Knoxville,
Tenn., by Mr. De Bow, the president of the convention, and the editor
of a popular Southern review.

I will only refer now to the fate to which the author resigns those who
dare to break the ranks of that solid phalanx in which he thinks
the South should be combined--that is, to be "held up to public scorn
and public punishment as traitors and Tories, more steeped in guilt
than those of the Revolution itself."

The honorable Senator from New York further announced to us in exultant
tones, that "at last there was a North side of this Chamber, a North side
of the Chamber of the House of Representatives, and a North side of
the Union, as well as a South side of all these"; and he admonished
us that the time was at hand when freedom would assert its influence
in the regulation of the domestic and foreign policy of the country.

When was there a time in the history of the government that there
was no North side of this Chamber and of the other? When was there a
time that there was not a proud array of Northern men in both Chambers,
distinguished by their genius and ability, devoted to the interests
of the North, and successful in maintaining them?

Though it may be true that Southern men have filled the executive
chair for much the larger portion of the time that has elapsed since
the organization of the government, yet when, in what instance was
it, that a Southerner has been elevated to that high station without
the support of a majority of the freemen of the North?

Do you of the North complain that the policy of the government, under
the long-continued influence of Southern Presidents, has been injurious
or fatal to your interests?

Has it paralyzed your industry? Has it crippled your resources? Has
it impaired your energies? Has it checked your progress in any one department
of human effort? Let your powerful mercantile marine, your ships whitening
every sea--the fruit of wise commercial regulations and navigation
laws; let your flourishing agriculture, your astonishing progress in
manufacturing skill, your great canals, your thousands of miles of
railroads, your vast trade, internal and external, your proud cities,
and your accumulated millions of moneyed capital, ready to be invested
in profitable enterprises in any part of the world, answer that question.

Do you complain of a narrow and jealous policy under Southern rule,
in extending and opening new fields of enterprise to your hardy sons
in the great West, along the line of the great chain of American lakes,
even to the head waters of the Father of Rivers, and over the rich
and fertile plains stretching southward from the lake shores?

Let the teeming populations--let the hundreds of millions of annual
products that have succeeded to the but recent dreary and unproductive
haunts of the red man--answer that question. That very preponderance of free
States which the Senator from New York contemplates with such satisfaction,
and which has moved him exultingly to exclaim that there is at last
a North side of this Chamber, has been hastened by the liberal policy
of Southern Presidents and Southern statesmen; and has it become the
ambition of that Senator to unite and combine all this great, rich,
and powerful North in the policy of crippling the resources and repressing
the power of the South?

Is this to be the one idea which is to mold the policy of the government, when that gentleman and
his friends shall control it? If it be, then I appeal to the better feelings and the better judgment of his followers
to arrest him in his mad career. Sir, let us have some brief interval
of repose at least from this eternal agitation of the slavery question.
Let power go into whatever hands it may, let us save the Union!

I have all the confidence other gentlemen can have in the extent to which this
Union is intrenched in the hearts of the great mass of the people of the
North and South; but when I reflect upon and consider the desperate
and dangerous extremes to which ambitious party leaders are often
prepared to go, without meaning to do the country any mischief, in
the struggle for the imperial power, the crown of the American presidency,
I sometimes tremble for its fate.

Two great parties are now dividing the Union on this question. It is evident
to every man of sense, who examines it, that practically, in respect
to slavery, the result will be the same both to North and South; Kansas
will be a free State, no matter what may be the decision on this question.

But how that decision may affect the fortunes of those parties, is
not certain; and there is the chief difficulty.

But the greatest question of all is, How will that decision affect
the country as a whole?

Two adverse yet concurrent and mighty forces are driving the vessel of State
towards the rocks upon which she must split, unless she receives timely
aid--a paradox, yet expressive of a momentous and perhaps a fatal truth.

There
is no hope of rescue unless the sober-minded men, both of the North
and South, shall, by some sufficient influence, be brought to adopt
the wise maxims and sage counsels of the great founders of our government.

TRANS-CONTINENTAL

RAILROADS (Delivered in the United States Senate, February 17th, 1858. in Support
of the Pacific Railroad Bill)

An objection made to this bill is, the gigantic scale of the projected
enterprise.

A grand idea it is.

A continent of three thousand miles in extent from east to west, reaching from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, is to be connected by a railway!

Honorable Senators will remember, that over one thousand miles--one-third of
this whole expanse of the continent--the work is already accomplished,
and that chiefly by private enterprise. I may, as a safe estimate,
say, that a thousand miles of this railroad leading from the Atlantic
to the West, upon the line of the lakes, and nearly as much upon a
line further south, are either completed, or nearly so.

We have two thousand miles yet to compass, in the execution of a work which
it is said has no parallel in the history of the world. No, sir; it
has no parallel in the history of the world, ancient or modern, either
as to its extent and magnitude, or to its consequences, beneficent
and benignant in all its bearings on the interests of all mankind.

It is in these aspects, and in the contemplation of these consequences,
that it has no parallel in the history of the world--changing the
course of the commerce of the world--bringing the West almost in contact,
by reversing the ancient line of communication, with the gorgeous
East, and all its riches, the stories of which, in our earlier days
we regarded as fabulous; but now, sir, what was held to be merely
fictions of the brain in former times, in regard to the riches of
Eastern Asia, is almost realized on our own western shores.

Sir, these are some of the inducements to the construction of this great
road, besides its importance to the military defenses of the country,
and its mail communications.

Sir, it is a magnificent and splendid project in every aspect in which
you can view it.

One-third of this great railway connection is accomplished; two-thirds
remain to be. Shall we hesitate to go forward with the work?

Now, with regard to the means provided for the construction of the road. It
is said, here is an enormous expenditure of the public money proposed.
We propose to give twenty millions of dollars in the bonds of the government,
bearing five per cent. interest, and fifteen millions of acres of
land, supposed to be worth as much more, on the part of the government.
This is said to be enormous, and we are reminded that we ought to
look at what the people will say, and how they will feel when they
come to the knowledge that twenty millions in money and twenty millions
in land have been given for the construction of a railway!

Some doubtless there are in this chamber who are ready to contend that we had
better give these fifteen millions of acres of land to become homesteads
for the landless and homeless. What is this twenty millions in money,
and how is it to be paid? It is supposed that the road cannot be constructed
in less than five years.

In that event, bonds of the government to the amount of four millions of dollars
will issue annually. Probably the road will not be built in less than
ten years, and that will require an issue of bonds amounting to two millions
a year; and possibly the road may not be finished in less than twenty
years, which would limit the annual issue of bonds to one million.
The interest upon these bonds, at five per cent, will of course have
to be paid out of the treasury, a treasury in which there is now a
surplus of twelve or fourteen millions of dollars.

When the road is completed and the whole amount of twenty millions in lands is paid, making the whole sum advanced by
the government forty millions, the annual interest upon them will
only be two millions.

And what is that? Why, sir, the donations and benevolences, the allowances
of claims upon flimsy and untenable grounds, and other extravagant
and unnecessary expenditures that are granted by Congress and the
executive departments, while you have an overflowing treasury, will
amount to the half of that sum annually.

The enormous sum of two millions is proposed to be paid out of the treasury annually, when this great
road shall be completed!

It is a tremendous undertaking, truly! What a scheme! What extravagance!

I understand the cost of the New York and Erie road alone, constructed principally
by private enterprise, has been not less than thirty millions--between thirty
and thirty-three millions of dollars. That work was constructed by
a single State giving aid occasionally to a company, which supplied
the balance of the cost.

I understand that the road from Baltimore to Wheeling, when it shall have been finished, and its furniture
placed upon it, will have cost at least thirty millions. What madness,
what extravagance, then, is it for the government of the United States to
undertake to expend forty millions for a road from the Mississippi
to the Pacific.

Mr. President, one honorable Senator says the amount is not sufficient
to induce a capitalist to invest his money in the enterprise.

Others, again, say it is far too much; more than we can afford to
give for the construction of the work.

Let us see which is right.

The government is to give twenty millions in all out of the treasury for the road; or we issue bonds
and pay five per cent, interest annually upon them, and twenty millions in lands, which, if regarded
as money, amounts to a cost to the government of two millions per annum.

What are the objects to be accomplished? A daily mail from the valley of the
Mississippi to the Pacific; the free transportation of all troops and
munitions of war required for the protection and defense of our possessions
on the Pacific; which we could not hold three months in a war either
with England or France, without such a road.

By building this road we accomplish this further object: This road
will be the most effective and powerful check that can be interposed
by the government upon Indian depredations and aggressions upon our
frontiers or upon each other; the northern tribes upon the southern,
and the southern upon the northern.

You cut them in two. You will be constantly in their midst, and cut off their
intercommunication and hostile depredations. You will have a line of quasi fortifications,
a line of posts and stations, with settlements on each side of the road.
Every few miles you will thus have settlements strong enough to defend
themselves against inroads of the Indians, and so constituting a
wall of separation between the Indian tribes, composed of a white
population, with arms in their hands.

This object alone would, perhaps, be worth as much as the road will cost; and when I speak of what the road
will be worth in this respect, I mean to say, that besides the prevention
of savage warfare, the effusion of blood, it will save millions of
dollars to the treasury annually, in the greater economy attained
in moving troops and military supplies and preventing hostilities.

.
. .

I have been thus particular in noting these things because I want to show where or on which side the balance
will be found in the adjustment of the responsibility account between the
friends and the opponents of this measure--which will have the heaviest
account to settle with the country.

For myself, I am not wedded to this particular scheme. Rather than have no
road, I would prefer to adopt other projects. I am now advocating one which I supposed
would meet the views of a greater number of Senators than any other. I think
great honor is due to Mr. Whitney for having originated the scheme, and
having obtained the sanction of the legislatures of seventeen or
eighteen States of the Union.

Rather than have the project altogether fail, I would be willing to adopt
this plan.

It may not offer the same advantages for a speedy consummation of the work; but still, we would
have a road in prospect, and that would be a great deal.

But if gentlemen are to rise here in their places year after year--and this is the fifth year
from the time we ought to have undertaken this work--and tell us it is just time to commence a survey, we
will never have a road.

The honorable Senator from South Carolina [Mr. Butler] says there ought
to be some limitation in this idea of progress, when regarded as a spur to great activity
and energy, as to what we shall do in our day. He says we have acquired
California; we have opened up those rich regions on our western borders,
which promises such magnificent results; and he asks, is not that
enough for the present generation?

Leave it to the nest generation to construct a work of such magnitude
as this--requiring forty millions of dollars from the government. Mr. President,
I have said that if the condition was a road or no road, I would regard
one hundred and fifty millions of dollars as well laid out by the government
for the work; though I have no idea that it will take such an amount.

Eighty or one hundred millions of dollars will build the road.

But with regard to what is due from this generation to itself, or
what may be left to the next generation, I say it is for the present
generation that we want the road.

As to our having acquired California, and opened this new world of commerce
and enterprise, and as to what we shall leave to the next generation, I
say that, after we of this generation shall have constructed this road,
we will, perhaps, not even leave to the next generation the construction
of a second one.

The present generation, in my opinion, will not pass away until it shall have seen two great lines
of railroads in prosperous operation between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and within our own territory,
and still leave quite enough to the next generation--the third and fourth great lines of communication between
the two extremes of the continent.

One,
at least, is due to ourselves, and to the present generation; and
I hope there are many within the sound of my voice who will live to
see it accomplished.

We want that new Dorado, the new Ophir of America, to be thrown open and placed within the reach
of the whole people. We want the great cost, the delays, as well as the privations and risks of a passage
to California, by the malarious Isthmus of Panama, or any other of
the routes now in use, to be mitigated, or done away with.

There will be some greater equality in the enjoyment and advantages of these new acquisitions upon the Pacific
coast when this road shall be constructed. The inexhaustible gold mines, or placers of California, will no longer
be accessible only to the more robust, resolute, or desperate part
of our population, and who may be already well enough off to pay their
passage by sea, or provide an outfit for an overland travel of two
and three thousand miles.

Enterprising young men all over the country, who can command the pittance
of forty or fifty dollars to pay their railroad fare; heads of families who
have the misfortune to be poor, but spirit and energy enough to seek
comfort and independence by labor, will no longer be restrained by
the necessity of separating themselves from their families, but have
it in their power, with such small means as they may readily command,
in eight or ten days, to find themselves with their whole households
transported and set down in the midst of the gold regions of the West,
at full liberty to possess and enjoy whatever of the rich harvest
spread out before them their industry and energy shall entitle them
to.

It will be theirs by as good a title as any can boast who have had the means to
precede them.

We hear much said of late of the justice and policy of providing
a homestead, a quarter section of the public land, to every poor and
landless family in the country. Make this road, and you enable every poor man
in the country to buy a much better homestead, and retain all the pride and
spirit of independence. Gentlemen here may say that the region of California,
so inviting, and abundant in gold now, will soon be exhausted, and
all these bright prospects for the enterprising poor pass away.

No, sir; centuries will pass--ages and ages must roll away before those gold-bearing mountains shall all have
been excavated--those auriferous sands and alluvial deposits shall give out all their wealth; and even after
all these shall have failed, the beds of the rivers will yield a generous return to the toil of
the laborer.


Many writers, some of them most distinguished, have started of late a strong campaign against
the institution of the jury, although it is the only protection we have against the errors,
really very frequent, of a caste that is under no control.[25]  A portion of these writers
advocate a jury recruited solely from the ranks of the enlightened classes; but we have already
proved that even in this case the verdicts would be identical with those returned under the
present system.  Other writers, taking their stand on the errors committed by juries, would
abolish the jury and replace it by judges.  It is difficult to see how these would-be reformers
can forget that the errors for which the jury is blamed were committed in the first instance
by judges, and that when the accused person comes before a jury he has already been held to
be guilty by several magistrates, by the juge d'instruction, the public prosecutor, and the
Court of Arraignment.  It should thus be clear that were the accused to be definitely judged
by magistrates instead of by jurymen, he would lose his only chance of being admitted innocent.
The errors of juries have always been first of all the errors of magistrates. It is solely
the magistrates, then, who should be blamed when particularly monstrous judicial errors crop
up, such, for instance, as the quite recent condemnation of Dr. L---- who, prosecuted by a
juge d'instruction, of excessive stupidity, on the strength of the denunciation of a half-idiot
girl, who accused the doctor of having performed an illegal operation upon her for thirty francs,
would have been sent to penal servitude but for an explosion of public indignation, which had
for result that he was immediately set at liberty by the Chief of the State. The honourable
character given the condemned man by all his fellow-citizens made the grossness of the blunder
self-evident. The magistrates themselves admitted it, and yet out of caste considerations they
did all they could to prevent the pardon being signed.  In all similar affairs the jury, confronted
with technical details it is unable to understand, naturally hearkens to the public prosecutor,
arguing that, after all, the affair has been investigated by magistrates trained to unravel
the most intricate situations.  Who, then, are the real authors of the error--the jurymen or
the magistrates?  We should cling vigorously to the jury.  It constitutes, perhaps, the only
category of crowd that cannot be replaced by any individuality. It alone can temper the severity
of the law, which, equal for all, ought in principle to be blind and to take no cognisance
of particular cases.  Inaccessible to pity, and heeding nothing but the text of the law, the
judge in his professional severity would visit with the same penalty the burglar guilty of
murder and the wretched girl whom poverty and her abandonment by her seducer have driven to
infanticide.  The jury, on the other hand, instinctively feels that the seduced girl is much
less guilty than the seducer, who, however, is not touched by the law, and that she deserves
every indulgence.

[25] The magistracy is, in point of fact, the only administration whose acts are under no control.
In spite of all its revolutions, democratic France does not possess that right of habeas corpus
of which England is so proud.  We have banished all the tyrants, but have set up a magistrate
in each city who disposes at will of the honour and liberty of the citizens.  An insignificant
juge d'instruction (an examining magistrate who has no exact counterpart in England.--Trans.),
fresh from the university, possesses the revolting power of sending to prison at will persons
of the most considerable standing, on a simple supposition on his part of their guilt, and
without being obliged to justify his act to any one.  Under the pretext of pursuing his investigation
he can keep these persons in prison for six months or even a year, and free them at last without
owing them either an indemnity or excuses.  The warrant in France is the exact equivalent of
the lettre de cachet, with this difference, that the latter, with the use of which the monarchy
was so justly reproached, could only be resorted to by persons occupying a very high position,
while the warrant is an instrument in the hands of a whole class of citizens which is far from
passing for being very enlightened or very independent.

Being well acquainted with the psychology of castes, and also with the psychology of other
categories of crowds, I do not perceive a single case in which, wrongly accused of a crime,
I should not prefer to have to deal with a jury rather than with magistrates.  I should have
some chance that my innocence would be recognised by the former and not the slightest chance
that it would be admitted by the latter.  The power of crowds is to be dreaded, but the power
of certain castes is to be dreaded yet more.  Crowds are open to conviction; castes never are.

CHAPTER IV

ELECTORAL CROWDS

General characteristics of electoral crowds--The manner of persuading them--The qualities that
should be possessed by a candidate--Necessity of prestige--Why working men and peasants so
rarely choose candidates from their own class--The influence of words and formulas on the elector--The
general aspect of election oratory--How the opinions of the elector are formed--The power of
political committees--They represent the most redoubtable form of tyranny--The committees of
the Revolution-- Universal suffrage cannot be replaced in spite of its slight psychological
value--Why it is that the votes recorded would remain the same even if the right of voting
were restricted to a limited class of citizens--What universal suffrage expresses in all countries. 

Enough, that when morning dawned on the earth above, a better day
had dawned over the soul of Marcellus in the vaults below.

His longings were completely satisfied; the load was all removed; the Christians; secret was his;
and with rapture unfelt before, he could now sing the song of the
Christian:

"Unto Him that loved us, To Him that washed us from our
sins In his own blood, To Him be glory and dominion For ever and ever."

CHAPTER

VI.

THE CLOUD OF WITNESSES.

"These all died in faith."

The new convert soon learned more of the Christians.

After a brief repose he rose and was joined by Honorius, who offered
to show him the nature of the place where they lived.

Those whom he had seen at the chapel service formed but a small part
of the dwellers in the catacombs.

Their numbers rose to many thousands, and they were scattered throughout
its wide extent in little communities, each of which had its own means
of communication with the city.

He walked far on, accompanied by Honorius. He was astonished at the
numbers of people whom he encountered; and though he knew that the
Christians were numerous, yet he did not suppose that so vast a proportion
would have the fortitude to choose a life in the catacombs.

Nor was he less interested in the dead than in the living.

As he passed along he read the inscriptions upon their tombs, and
found in them all the same strong faith and lofty hope.

These he loved to read, and the fond interest which Honorius took
in these pious memorials made him a congenial guide.

"There," said Honorius, "lies a witness for the truth."

Marcellus looked where he pointed, and read as follows:

PRIMITIUS, IN PEACE, AFTER MANY TORMENTS, A MOST VALIANT MARTYR. HE
LIVED ABOUT THIRTY-EIGHT YEARS.

HIS WIFE RAISED THIS TO HER DEAREST HUSBAND, THE WELL-DESERVING.

"These men," said Honorius, "show us how Christians ought to die.

Yonder is another who suffered like Primitius."

PAULUS WAS PUT TO DEATH IN TORTURES, IN ORDER THAT HE MIGHT LIVE IN ETERNAL
BLISS.

"And there," said Honorius, "is the tomb of a noble
lady, who showed that fortitude which Christ can always bestow even
to the weakest of his followers in the hour of need."

CLEMENTIA, TORTURED, DEAD, SLEEPS,
WILL RISE.

"We do not die," said Honorius; "we but sleep, and when the last trump shall
sound we shall awake to be forever with the Lord. Here," he continued,
"lies Constans, doubly constant to his God by a double trial.

Poison was
given to him first, but it was powerless over him, so he was put to the sword:"

THE
DEADLY DRAUGHT DARED NOT PRESENT TO CONSTANS THE CROWN WHICH THE
STEEL WAS PERMTTED TO OFFER.

Thus they walked along, reading the inscriptions which appeared on every
side. New feelings came to Marcellus as he read the glorious catalogue
of names.

It was to him a history of the Church of Christ. Here
were the acts of the martyrs portrayed before him in words that burned.
The rude pictures that adorned many of the tombs carried with them a
pathos that the finest works of the skillful artist could not produce.

The rudely carved letters, the bad
spelling and grammatical errors, that characterized many of them,
gave a touching proof of the treasure of the Gospel to the poor and
lowly.

Not many wise, not many mighty are
called; but to the poor the Gospel is preached.

On many of them there
was a monogram, which was formed of the initial letters of the name
of Christ, "X" and "P" being joined so as to form one cypher. Some bore
a palm branch, the emblem of victory and immortality, the token of
that palm of glory which shall hereafter wave in the hands of the innumerable
throng that are to stand around the throne. Others bore other devices.

"What
is this?" said Marcellus, pointing to a picture of a ship.

"It shows that the redeemed spirit has sailed
from earth to the haven of rest."

"And what is the meaning of this fish that I see represented so often?"

"The
fish is used because the letters that form its name in Greek are the
initials of words that express the glory and hope of the Christian.
'iota' stands for 'Jesus,' 'chi' for 'Christ,' 'theta' and 'gamma'
for 'the Son of God,' and 'sigma' for 'Saviour,' so that the fish
symbolizes under its name 'iota chi theta gamma sigma,' 'Jesus Christ,
the Son of God, the Saviour.'"

"What means this picture that I see
so often--a ship and a huge sea monster?"

"That is Jonah, a prophet
of God, of whom as yet you are ignorant." Honorius then related the
story of Jonah, and showed him how the escape from the bowels of the
fish reminded the Christian of his deliverance from the darkness of
the tomb. "This glorious hope of the resurrection is an unspeakable
comfort," said he, "and we love to bring it to our thoughts by different
symbols. What
was understood by the `federal republic?'  There were those who took it to mean the emancipation
of the provinces, institutions akin to those of the United States and administrative decentralisation;
others had in view the abolition of all authority and the speedy commencement of the great
social liquidation.  The socialists of Barcelona and Andalusia stood out for the absolute sovereignty
of the communes; they proposed to endow Spain with ten thousand independent municipalities,
to legislate on their own account, and their creation to be accompanied by the suppression
of the police and the army.  In the southern provinces the insurrection was soon seen to spread
from town to town and village to village.  Directly a village had made its pronunciamento its
first care was to destroy the telegraph wires and the railway lines so as to cut off all communication
with its neighbours and Madrid.  The sorriest hamlet was determined to stand on its own bottom.
Federation had given place to cantonalism, marked by massacres, incendiarism, and every description
of brutality, and bloody saturnalia were celebrated throughout the length and breadth of the land."

With respect to the influence that may be exerted by reasoning on the minds of electors, to
harbour the least doubt on this subject can only be the result of never having read the reports
of an electioneering meeting.  In such a gathering affirmations, invectives, and sometimes
blows are exchanged, but never arguments.  Should silence be established for a moment it is
because some one present, having the reputation of a "tough customer," has announced that he
is about to heckle the candidate by putting him one of those embarrassing questions which are
always the joy of the audience.  The satisfaction, however, of the opposition party is shortlived,
for the voice of the questioner is soon drowned in the uproar made by his adversaries. The
following reports of public meetings, chosen from hundreds of similar examples, and taken from
the daily papers, may be considered as typical:--

"One of the organisers of the meeting having asked the assembly to elect a president, the storm
bursts.  The anarchists leap on to the platform to take the committee table by storm.  The
socialists make an energetic defence; blows are exchanged, and each party accuses the other
of being spies in the pay of the Government, &c. . . .  A citizen leaves the hall with a black eye.

"The committee is at length installed as best it may be in the midst of the tumult, and the
right to speak devolves upon `Comrade' X.

"The orator starts a vigorous attack on the socialists, who interrupt him with shouts of `Idiot,
scoundrel, blackguard!' &c., epithets to which Comrade X. replies by setting forth a theory
according to which the socialists are `idiots' or `jokers.'"

"The Allemanist party had organised yesterday evening, in the Hall of Commerce, in the Rue
du Faubourg-du-Temple, a great meeting, preliminary to the workers' fete of the 1st of May.
The watchword of the meeting was `Calm and Tranquillity!'

"Comrade G---- alludes to the socialists as `idiots' and `humbugs.'

"At these words there is an exchange of invectives and orators and audience come to blows.
Chairs, tables, and benches are converted into weapons," &c., &c.

It is not to be imagined for a moment that this description of discussion is peculiar to a
determined class of electors and dependent on their social position.  In every anonymous assembly
whatever, though it be composed exclusively of highly educated persons, discussion always assumes
the same shape.  I have shown that when men are collected in a crowd there is a tendency towards
their mental levelling at work, and proof of this is to be found at every turn.  Take, for
example, the following extract from a report of a meeting composed exclusively of students,
which I borrow from the Temps of 13th of February, 1895:--

"The tumult only increased as the evening went on; I do not believe that a single orator succeeded
in uttering two sentences without being interrupted.  At every instant there came shouts from
this or that direction or from every direction at once. Applause was intermingled with hissing,
violent discussions were in progress between individual members of the audience, sticks were
brandished threateningly, others beat a tattoo on the floor, and the interrupters were greeted
with yells of `Put him out!' or `Let him speak!'

"M. C---- lavished such epithets as odious and cowardly, monstrous, vile, venal and vindictive,
on the Association, which he declared he wanted to destroy," &c., &c.

How, it may be asked, can an elector form an opinion under such conditions?  To put such a
question is to harbour a strange delusion as to the measure of liberty that may be enjoyed
by a collectivity.  Crowds have opinions that have been imposed upon them, but they never boast
reasoned opinions.  In the case under consideration the opinions and votes of the electors
are in the hands of the election committees, whose leading spirits are, as a rule, publicans,
their influence over the working men, to whom they allow credit, being great.  "Do you know
what an election committee is?" writes M. Scherer, one of the most valiant champions of present-day
democracy.  "It is neither more nor less than the corner-stone of our institutions, the masterpiece
of the political machine. This is made good by experience, which can from the ashes of a plant
revive the plant, and from its cinders recall it into its stalk and leaves again.<67>
What the art of man can do in these inferior pieces, what blasphemy
is it to affirm the finger of God cannot do in those more perfect
and sensible structures?

This is that mystical philosophy, from whence no true scholar becomes
an atheist, but from the visible effects of nature grows up a real
divine, and beholds not in a dream, as Ezekiel, but in an ocular and
visible object, the types of his resur- rection.

<i>Sect.</i> 49.--Now,
the necessary mansions of our restored selves are those two contrary
and incompatible places we call heaven and hell.

To define them, or strictly
to determine what and where these are, surpasseth my divinity. That
elegant apostle, which seemed to have a glimpse of heaven, hath left
but a negative descrip- tion thereof; which "neither eye hath seen,
nor ear hath heard, nor can enter into the heart of man:" he was translated
out of himself to behold it; but, being re- turned into himself, could
not express it.

Saint John's description by emeralds, chrysolites, and precious stones,
is too weak to express the material heaven we behold.

Briefly, therefore,
where the soul hath the full measure and complement of happiness;
where the boundless appetite of that spirit remains completely satisfied
that it can neither desire addition nor alteration; that, I think, is truly
heaven: and this can only be in the enjoyment of that essence, whose
infinite goodness is able to terminate the desires of itself, and
the unsatiable wishes of ours.

Wherever God will thus manifest him- self, there is heaven, though within the circle of this sensible world.
Thus, the soul of man may be in heaven anywhere, even within the
limits of his own proper body; and when it ceaseth to live in the
body it may remain in its own soul, that is, its Creator.

And thus we may say that Saint Paul, whether in the body or out of the body,
was yet in heaven. To place it in the empyreal, or beyond the tenth sphere,
is to forget the world's destruction; for when this sensible world
shall be destroyed, all shall then be here as it is now there, an
empyreal heaven, a <i>quasi</i> vacuity; when to ask where heaven is,
is to demand where the presence of God is, or where we have the glory
of that happy vision.

Moses, that was bred up in all the learning of the Egyptians, committed
a gross absurdity in philo- sophy, when with these eyes of flesh
he desired to see God, and petitioned his Maker, that is truth itself,
to a contra- diction.

Those that imagine heaven and hell neighbours, and conceive a vicinity
between those two extremes, upon consequence of the parable, where
Dives discoursed with Lazarus, in Abraham's bosom, do too grossly
con- ceive of those glorified creatures, whose eyes shall easily out-see
the sun, and behold without perspective the extremest distances: for
if there shall be, in our glori- fied eyes, the faculty of sight and
reception of objects, I could think the visible species there to be
in as un- limitable a way as now the intellectual.

I grant that two bodies placed beyond the tenth sphere, or in a vacuity,
according to Aristotle's philosophy, could not behold each other, because
there wants a body or medium to hand and transport the visible rays
of the object unto the sense; but when there shall be a general defect
of either medium to convey, or light to prepare and dispose that
medium, and yet a perfect vision, we must suspend the rules of our
philosophy, and make all good by a more absolute piece of opticks.

<i>Sect.</i>
50.--I cannot tell how to say that fire is the essence of hell; I
know not what to make of purgatory, or conceive a flame that can either
prey upon, or purify the substance of a soul.

Those flames of sulphur, men- tioned in the scriptures, I take not to be
understood of this present hell, but of that to come, where fire
shall make up the complement of our tortures, and have a body or subject
whereon to manifest its tyranny.

Some who have had the honour to be textuary in divinity are of opinion
it shall be the same specifical fire with ours. This is hard to conceive,
yet can I make good how even that may prey upon our bodies, and yet not
consume us: for in this material world, there are bodies that persist
invincible in the powerfulest flames; and though, by the action of fire,
they fall into ignition and liquation, yet will they never suffer a destruction.
I would gladly know how Moses, with an actual fire, calcined or burnt
the golden calf into powder: for that mystical metal of gold, whose
solary and celestial nature I admire, ex- posed unto the violence
of fire, grows only hot, and liquefies, but consumeth not; so when
the consumable and volatile pieces of our bodies shall be refined
into a more impregnable and fixed temper, like gold, though they suffer
from the action of flames, they shall never perish, but lie immortal
in the arms of fire.

And surely, if this flame must suffer only by the action of this element,
there will many bodies escape; and not only heaven, but earth will not be
at an end, but rather a beginning. For at present it is not earth, but
a composition of fire, water, earth, and air; but at that time, spoiled of these
ingredients, it shall appear in a substance more like itself, its
ashes. Philosophers that opinioned the world's destruction by fire,
did never dream of annihilation, which is beyond the power of sublunary
causes; for the last and proper action of that element is but vitrification,
or a reduction of a body into glass; and therefore some of our chymicks
facetiously affirm, that, at the last fire, all shall be crystalized
and reverberated into glass, which is the utmost action of that element.

Nor need we fear
this term, annihilation, or wonder that God will destroy the works
of his crea- tion: for man subsisting, who is, and will then truly appear,
a microcosm, the world cannot be said to be destroyed.

For the eyes of God, and perhaps also of our glorified selves, shall as
really behold and contem- plate the world, in its epitome or contracted
essence, as now it doth at large and in its dilated substance. In the seed
of a plant, to the eyes of God, and to the under- standing of man,
there exists, though in an invisible way, the perfect leaves, flowers,
and fruit thereof; for things that are in <i>posse</i> to the sense,
are actually existent to the understanding.

Thus God beholds all things, who contemplates as fully his works in their
epitome as in their full volume, and beheld as amply the whole world,
in that little compendium of the sixth day, as in the scattered and
dilated pieces of those five before.

<i>Sect.</i> 51.--Men commonly
set forth the torments of hell by fire, and the extremity of corporal
afflictions, and describe hell in the same method that Mahomet doth
heaven.

This indeed makes a noise, and drums in popular ears: but if this be
the terrible piece thereof, it is not worthy to stand in diameter with
heaven, whose happiness consists in that part that is best able to
com- prehend it, that immortal essence, that translated divinity and colony
of God, the soul.

Surely, though we place hell under earth, the devil's walk and purlieu
is about it. Men speak too popularly who place it in those flaming mountains,
which to grosser apprehensions re- present hell. The heart of man is
the place the devils dwell in; I feel sometimes a hell within myself; Lucifer
keeps his court in my breast; Legion is revived in me. There are as many hells
as Anaxagoras<68> conceited worlds. There was more than one hell in
Magdalene, when there were seven devils; for every devil is an hell
unto himself,<69> he holds enough of torture in his own <i>ubi</i>;
and needs not the misery of cir- cumference to afflict him: and thus,
a distracted con- science here is a shadow or introduction unto hell
here- after.

Who can but pity the merciful intention of those hands that do destroy themselves?
The devil, were it in his power, would do the like; which being im-
possible, his miseries are endless, and he suffers most in that attribute
wherein he is impassible, his im- mortality.

<i>Sect.</i> 52.--I thank God, and with joy I mention it, I was never
afraid of hell, nor ever grew pale at the description of that place.

I have so fixed my contempla- tions on heaven, that I have almost forgot the idea of hell; and am afraid
rather to lose the joys of the one, than endure the misery of the other: to be deprived of them is a perfect
hell, and needs methinks no addition to complete our afflictions. That terrible term hath never detained
me from sin, nor do I owe any good action to the name thereof. I fear God, yet am not afraid of him; his mercies
make me ashamed of my sins, before his judgments afraid thereof: these are the forced and secondary method
of his wisdom, which he useth but as the last remedy, and upon provocation;-- a course rather
to deter the wicked, than incite the virtuous to his worship. I can hardly think there was ever any
scared into heaven: they go the fairest way to heaven that would serve God without a hell: other
mercenaries, that crouch unto him in fear of hell, though they term
themselves the servants, are indeed but the slaves, of the Almighty.

<i>Sect.</i>
53.--And to be true, and speak my soul, when I survey the occurrences
of my life, and call into account the finger of God, I can perceive
nothing but an abyss and mass of mercies, either in general to mankind,
or in particular to myself.

And, whether out of the prejudice of my affection, or an inverting and
partial conceit of his mercies, I know not,--but those which others term crosses,
afflictions, judgments, misfortunes, to me, who inquire further into
them than their visible effects, they both appear, and in event have
ever proved, the secret and dissembled favours of his affection.

It is a singular piece of wisdom to apprehend truly, and without passion,
the works of God, and so well to distinguish his justice from his mercy
as not to miscall those noble attributes; yet it is likewise an honest
piece of logick so to dispute and argue the proceedings of God as
to distinguish even his judgments into mercies.

For God is merciful unto all,
because better to the worst than the best deserve; and to say he punisheth
none in this world, though it be a paradox, is no absurdity. To one
that hath com- mitted murder, if the judge should only ordain a fine,
it were a madness to call this a punishment, and to re- pine at the
sentence, rather than admire the clemency of the judge.

Thus, our offences being mortal, and deserving not only death but
damnation, if the goodness of God be content to traverse and pass them
over with a loss, misfortune, or disease; what frenzy were it to term
this a punishment, rather than an extremity of mercy, and to groan
under the rod of his judgments rather than admire the sceptre of
his mercies!

There- fore to adore, honour, and admire him, is a debt of gratitude due
from the obligation of our nature, states, and conditions: and with these thoughts
he that knows them best will not deny that I adore him.

That I obtain heaven, and the bliss thereof, is accidental, and not
the intended work of my devotion; it being a felicity I can neither
think to deserve nor scarce in modesty to expect.

For these two ends of us all, either as rewards or punishments, are
mercifully ordained and disproportionably disposed unto our actions;
the one being so far beyond our deserts, the other so infinitely below
our demerits.

<i>Sect.</i> 54.--There is no salvation to those that
believe not in Christ; that is, say some, since his nativity, and,
as divinity affirmeth, before also; which makes me much apprehend
the end of those honest worthies and philosophers which died before
his incarnation.

It is hard to place those souls in hell, whose worthy lives do teach us
virtue on earth. Methinks, among those many subdivisions of hell, there
might have been one limbo left for these. What a strange vision will
it be to see their poetical fictions converted into verities, and their
imagined and fancied furies into real devils!

How strange to them will sound the history of Adam, when they shall suffer
for him they never heard of!

When they who derive their genealogy from the gods, shall know
they are the unhappy issue of sinful man! It is an insolent part of
reason, to controvert the works of God, or question the justice of
his proceedings.

Could humility teach others, as it hath instructed me, to con- template
the infinite and incomprehensible distance be- twixt the Creator
and the creature; or did we seriously perpend that one simile of St
Paul, "shall the vessel say to the potter, why hast thou made me thus?"
it would prevent these arrogant disputes of reason: nor would we argue
the definitive sentence of God, either to heaven or hell.

Men that live according to the right rule and law of reason, live
but in their own kind, as beasts do in theirs; who justly obey the
prescript of their natures, and therefore cannot reasonably demand a
reward of their actions, as only obeying the natural dictates of
their reason.

It will, therefore, and must, at last appear, that all salvation is
through Christ; which verity, I fear, these great examples of virtue
must con- firm, and make it good how the perfectest actions of earth
have no title or claim unto heaven.

<i>Sect.</i> 55.--Nor truly do
I think the lives of these, or of any other, were ever correspondent,
or in all points conformable, unto their doctrines.

It is evident that Aristotle transgressed the rule of his own ethicks;<70>
the stoicks, that condemn passion, and command a man to laugh in Phalaris's<71>
bull, could not endure without a groan a fit of the stone or colick.
The scepticks, that affirmed they knew nothing,<72> even in that opinion
con- fute themselves, and thought they knew more than all the world
beside.

Diogenes I hold to be the most vain- glorious man of his time, and more ambitious in refus- ing all honours,
than Alexander in rejecting none. Vice and the devil put a fallacy
upon our reasons; and, provoking us too hastily to run from it, entangle
and profound us deeper in it.

The duke of Venice, that weds himself unto the sea, by a ring of gold,<73> I will not accuse of prodigality,
because it is a solemnity of good use and consequence in the state:
but the philoso- pher, that threw his money into the sea to avoid
avarice, was a notorious prodigal.<74> There is no road or ready
way to virtue; it is not an easy point of art to dis- entangle ourselves
from this riddle or web of sin.

To perfect virtue, as to religion, there is required a <i>panoplia</i>,
or complete armour; that whilst we lie at close ward against one vice,
we lie not open to the veney<75> of another. And indeed wiser discretions,
that have the thread of reason to conduct them, offend without a pardon;
whereas under heads may stumble without dishonour. There go so many
circumstances to piece up one good action, that it is a lesson to
be good, and we are forced to be virtuous by the book.

Again, the practice of men holds not an equal pace, yea and often runs counter
to their theory; we naturally know what is good, but naturally pursue what
is evil: the rhetorick wherewith I persuade another cannot persuade myself.
There is a depraved appetite in us, that will with patience hear
the learned instructions of reason, but yet perform no further than
agrees to its own irregular humour.

In brief, we all are monsters; that is, a com- position of man and
beast: wherein we must endeavour to be as the poets fancy that wise man, Chiron;
that is, to have the region of man above that of beast, and sense
to sit but at the feet of reason.

  He should possess a special description of eloquence,
composed of energetic affirmations--unburdened with proofs-- and impressive images, accompanied
by very summary arguments.  This is a kind of eloquence that is met with in all assemblies,
the English Parliament included, the most serious though it is of all.

"Debates in the House of Commons," says the English philosopher Maine, "may be constantly read
in which the entire discussion is confined to an exchange of rather weak generalities and rather
violent personalities.  General formulas of this description exercise a prodigious influence
on the imagination of a pure democracy.  It will always be easy to make a crowd accept general
assertions, presented in striking terms, although they have never been verified, and are perhaps
not susceptible of verification."

Too much importance cannot be attached to the "striking terms" alluded to in the above quotation.
We have already insisted, on several occasions, on the special power of words and formulas.
They must be chosen in such a way as to evoke very vivid images. The damned puppy of a fellow took for granted
that Christian was in love with him; but here she was, going about
as usual, as jolly as a sandboy; "in fact," Dick would say, plastering
up with bromidic mortar the windows of the narrow dwelling wherein
dwelt Lady Isabel's soul, "all's well that ends well!" With which
valuable aphorism, sanctioned by a long and respectable past, the Major
contentedly fed his heart, and tranquillised that of his wife.

Judith was less confident of the satisfactory end of all things.  They conjured up a double vision of the fever-haunted country and the vessel
that may carry them away; for is it not possible that they are included in the somewhat ill-defined
category of the politicians menaced?  They experienced the lurking fear that the men of the
Convention must have felt whom the vague speeches of Robespierre threatened with the guillotine,
and who, under the influence of this fear, invariably yielded to him.

It is all to the interest of the leaders to indulge in the most improbable exaggerations. The
paper Whitelocke laid up, and transcribed in a larger treatise.

[SN: Effect of the Prince's visit.]

Woolfeldt acquainted Whitelocke that the public ministers in this Court
discoursed much of the extraordinary respect showed by the Prince
to the English Ambassador, both in his reception and the Prince's visit
to him. And particularly the Danish Ambassador was greatly discontented,
and said that never any ambassador had that honour done him before, and
it was so far beyond what he had received that he knew not how to
bear it; that the entertainment of public ministers of the same
character ought to be with the same ceremony, and not one to be preferred
so much as the English Ambassador had been before others of equal quality
with him, and much matter of complaint of that nature; which being
reported to the Prince, he said that neither the Danish Ambassador
nor any other public minister had cause to complain that he had not
given them the respect due to their several qualities; and if he,
out of a particular affection to the English Protector and Ambassador,
had a mind to express more than ordinary particular respects to them, it
was no wrong or cause of complaint to any other public minister, who
had what was due to him, because another had perhaps more than was
due to him; and he said he understood not why his condition should
render him less capable than other gentlemen to show particular respects
where they did bear a particular affection.

General Douglas, a Scottish gentleman in great favour and honour in
this country, came late this year to the Court, being hindered by
a violent ague upon his coming hither.

He made frequent visits to Whitelocke, and expressed much of respect
and civility to him as his countryman.

[SN: Whitelocke dines with General Douglas.]

This day Whitelocke was to dine with Douglas by a solemn invitation;
and during the whole time of his residence in this Court he never
was invited to any of their tables, but now to Douglas, and before
to Grave Eric, notwithstanding the freedom of his table to most of
them.

With Whitelocke were invited his two sons, Potley, Beake, and Croke.

There
they met Grave John Oxenstiern, Wrangel, Wittenberg, Bundt, Horne,
Vanderlin, Colonel Bannier, and one of the Prince's servants.  Not an idea, not a happy turn of phrase, or a telling
hit: a storm of declamation that leaves us bored.  After a dose of this unexhilarating reading
one is attempted to exclaim `Oh!' with the amiable Camille Desmoulins."

It is terrible at times to think of the power that strong conviction combined with extreme
narrowness of mind gives a man possessing prestige.  It is none the less necessary that these
conditions should be satisfied for a man to ignore obstacles and display strength of will in
a high measure.  Crowds instinctively recognise in men of energy and conviction the masters
they are always in need of.

In a parliamentary assembly the success of a speech depends almost solely on the prestige possessed
by the speaker, and not at all on the arguments he brings forward.  The best proof of this
is that when for one cause or another a speaker loses his prestige, he loses simultaneously
all his influence, that is, his power of influencing votes at will.

When an unknown speaker comes forward with a speech containing good arguments, but only arguments,
the chances are that he will only obtain a hearing.  A Deputy who is a psychologist of insight,
M. Desaubes, has recently traced in the following lines the portrait of the Deputy who lacks
prestige:--

"When he takes his place in the tribune he draws a document from his portfolio, spreads it
out methodically before him, and makes a start with assurance.

"He flatters himself that he will implant in the minds of his audience the conviction by which
he is himself animated. (7) Hence, those writers who assert that Judah's long absence from
his father's house took place before Joseph was sold, only seek to
delude themselves and to call in question the Scriptural authority
which they are anxious to protect.

Endnote 14. (1) "Dinah was scarcely seven years old when she was violated by Schechem." (2) The
opinion held by some that Jacob wandered about eight or ten years
between Mesopotamia and Bethel, savours of the ridiculous; if respect
for Aben Ezra, allows me to say so.

(3) For it is clear that Jacob had two reasons for haste: first, the desire to see
his old parents; secondly, and chiefly to perform, the vow made when he
fled from his brother (Gen. xxviii:10 and xxxi:13, and xxxv:1). (4)
We read (Gen. xxxi:3), that God had commanded him to fulfill his vow,
and promised him help for returning to his country. (5) If these considerations
seem conjectures rather than reasons, I will waive the point and admit that
Jacob, more unfortunate than Ulysses, spent eight or ten years or
even longer, in this short journey.

(6) At any rate it cannot be denied that Benjamin was born in the last year of
this wandering, that is by the reckoning of the objectors, when Joseph
was sixteen or seventeen years old, for Jacob left Laban seven years
after Joseph's birth.

(7) Now from the seventeenth year of Joseph's age till the patriarch went into Egypt, not more than
twenty-two years elapsed, as we have shown in this chapter.

(8) Consequently Benjamin, at the time of the journey to Egypt, was twenty-three
or twenty- four at the most. (9) He would therefore have been a grandfather
in the flower of his age (Gen. xlvi:21, cf.

Numb. xxvi:38, 40, and 1 Chron. viii;1), for it is certain that Bela, Benjamin's
eldest son, had at that time, two sons, Addai and Naa-man. (10) This
is just as absurd as the statement that Dinah was violated at the
age of seven, not to mention other impossibilities which would result
from the truth of the narrative. (11) Thus we see that unskillful
endeavours to solve difficulties, only raise fresh ones, and make
confusion worse confounded.

Endnote 15. (1) "Othniel, son of Kenag, was judge for forty years."
(2) Rabbi Levi Ben Gerson and others believe that these forty years which
the Bible says were passed in freedom, should be counted from the
death of Joshua, and consequently include the eight years during
which the people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following
eighteen years must be added on to the eighty years of Ehud's and
Shamgar's judgeships.

(3) In this case it would be necessary to reckon the other years of subjection among those said by the
Bible to have been passed in freedom. (4) But the Bible expressly notes the number of years of subjection,
and the number of years of freedom, and further declares (Judges ii:18) that the Hebrew state was prosperous
during the whole time of the judges.

(5) Therefore it is evident that Levi Ben Gerson (certainly a very learned man), and those who follow
him, correct rather than interpret the Scriptures.

(6) The same fault is committed by those who assert, that Scripture,
by this general calculation of years, only intended to mark the period
of the regular administration of the Hebrew state, leaving out the
years of anarchy and subjection as periods of misfortune and interregnum.

(7) Scripture
certainly passes over in silence periods of anarchy, but does not, as they dream, refuse to reckon
them or wipe them out of the country's annals. (8) It is clear that Ezra,
in 1 Kings vi., wished to reckon absolutely all the years since the
flight from Egypt.

(9) This is so plain, that no one versed in the Scriptures can doubt it. (10) For, without going back
to the precise words of the text, we may see that the genealogy of David
given at the end of the book of Ruth, and I Chron. ii., scarcely
accounts for so great a number of years.

(11) For Nahshon, who was
prince of the tribe of Judah (Numb. vii;11), two years after the Exodus,
died in the desert, and his son Salmon passed the Jordan with Joshua.
(12) Now this Salmon, according to the genealogy, was David's great-grandfather.

(13)
Deducting, then, from the total of 480 years, four years for Solomon's
reign, seventy for David's life, and forty for the time passed in
the desert, we find that David was born 366 years after the passage
of the Jordan.  The following description of the Assembly of 1848 is due to M. Spuller,
a parliamentarian whose faith in democracy is above suspicion.  I reproduce it from the Revue
litteraire, and it is thoroughly typical.  It offers an example of all the exaggerated sentiments
which I have described as characteristic of crowds, and of that excessive changeableness which
permits of assemblies passing, from moment to moment, from one set of sentiments to another
entirely opposite.

"The Republican party was brought to its perdition by its divisions, its jealousies, its suspicions,
and, in turn, its blind confidence and its limitless hopes.  Its ingenuousness and candour
were only equalled by its universal mistrust.  An absence of all sense of legality, of all
comprehension of discipline, together with boundless terrors and illusions; the peasant and
the child are on a level in these respects. What is the relation of constancy and faithfulness to the safety
of the Republic?

(Woodburn, page 338.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1.

Which party occupies the dominant position in the political life
of your community?

Find out why it holds this position.

2.

The history of third parties in your section, i.e., parties other
than the Democratic and Republican parties.

3.

The organization of any political party having official representatives
in your community.

4.

The work of local political committees in your community immediately
preceding election.

5. Corrupt practices acts in your state.

6.

The Civil Service System in your state.

7. Make a study of the different political parties with a view to determining
which you would prefer to join.

II

8. Origin and growth of parties in the United States. (Beard,
American Government and Politics, pages 103-108; Guitteau, Government
and Politics in the United States, chapter xxxvi; Bryce, The American
Commonwealth, vol. ii, chapters liii and liv; Ford, The Rise and Growth
of American Politics, chapter vii.)

9.

Characteristics of the political party.
(Ray, Introduction to Political Parties and Practical Politics, chapter
i.)

10. Distrust of parties in our early history. (Jones, Readings on Parties
and Elections in the United States, pages 28 36.)

11.

The spoils system.

(Bryce, The American Commonwealth, vol. ii, chapters lxv and lxvii;
Ray, Introduction to Political Parties and Practical Politics, chapter
xiv.)

12.

"Why the best men do not go into politics." (Bryce, The American Commonwealth,
vol. ii, chapter lviii.)

13.

Campaign contributions.

(Brooks,
Corruption in American Politics and Life.)

14.

The party ring. (Bryce, The American Commonwealth, vol. ii, chapters
lxiii and lxiv.)

15.

The state boss.

(Reinsch,
Readings on American State Government, pages 432-434; Ray, Introduction
to Political Parties and Practical Politics, chapter xvi.)

16.

How
the party machine works. (Ford, The Rise and Growth of American Politics,
pages 294-333; Kaye, Readings in Civil Governments, pages 373-377;
Jones, Readings on Parties and Elections in the United States, pages
175-178; Lowell, Public Opinion and Popular Government, chapter vi.)

17.

Party government in England and in the United States.

(Jones, Readings on Parties and Elections in the United States, pages
I-II.)

18. The struggle for good government. (Hammond and Jenks, Great American
Issues, chapter v.)

20.

The citizen and the party. (Bryce, Hindrances to Good
Citizenship, all; Hughes, Conditions of Progress in Democratic Government,
lectures in and iv; Root, Addressee on Government and Citizenship,
pages 1-77.)

FOR CLASSROOM
DISCUSSION

21. Do third parties serve a useful purpose?

22. Should we pass laws limiting the total amount
which any political candidate may spend in the campaign for nomination
and election?

23. What are the advantages and disadvantages of placing party emblems
at the head of ballots?

24.  It is impossible
for them to hesitate to give their votes.  The consequences of the increase of expenditure
are remote and will not entail disagreeable consequences for them personally, while the consequences
of a negative vote might clearly come to light when they next present themselves for re-election.

In addition to this first cause of an exaggerated expenditure there is another not less imperative--the
necessity of voting all grants for local purposes.  A Deputy is unable to oppose grants of
this kind because they represent once more the exigencies of the electors, and because each
individual Deputy can only obtain what he requires for his own constituency on the condition
of acceding to similar demands on the part of his colleagues.[29]

[29] In its issue of April 6, 1895, the Economiste published a curious review of the figures
that may be reached by expenditure caused solely by electoral considerations, and notably of
the outlay on railways.  To put Langayes (a town of 3,000 inhabitants, situated on a mountain)
in communication with Puy, a railway is voted that will cost 15 millions of francs. One morning
he was visited by one of his flock, proposing "a concert for prayer on the following Monday, in behalf
of those who had fallen back, that God's Spirit might re-awaken them,"--so observant were the believers
as well as their pastor of declensions. Among those who were awakened, but never truly converted,
he mentions one case. "Jan. 9, 1840.--Met with the case of one who had been frightened during the
late work, so that her bodily health was injured.

She seems to have no care now about her soul.

It has only filled her mouth with evil-speaking."

That many, who promised fair, drew back and walked no more with Jesus, is
true. Out of about 800 souls who, during the months of the Revival,
conversed with different ministers in apparent anxiety, no wonder
surely if many proved to have been impressed only for a time.

President Edwards considered it likely that, in such cases, the proportion
of real conversions might resemble the proportion of blossoms in spring,
and fruit in autumn.

Nor can anything be more unreasonable than to doubt the truth of all,
because of the deceit of some.

The world itself does not so act in judging of its own. The world reckons upon the possibility of being
mistaken in many cases, and yet does not cease to believe that there
is honesty and truth to be found.

One of themselves, a poet of their own, has said with no less justice
than beauty--

"Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell;
And though foul things put on the brows of grace, Yet grace must still
look so."

But, above all, we have the authority of the word of God, declaring
that such backslidings are the very tests of the true church: "For there
must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may
be made manifest among you," I Cor. 11:19.

It is not, however, meant that any who had really believed went back to perdition. On the contrary,
it is the creed of every sound evangelical church, that those who do go back to perdition were
persons who never really believed in Jesus. Their eyes may have been
opened to see the dread realities of sin and of the wrath to come;
but if they saw not righteousness for their guilty souls in the Saviour,
there is nothing in all Scripture to make us expect that they will
continue awake.

"Awake, them that sleepest, and Christ will give thee light," is the
call--inviting sinners to a point far beyond mere conviction.

One who, for a whole year, went back to folly, said: "'Your sermon
on the corruption of the heart made me despair, and so I gave myself
up to my old ways--attending dances, learning songs," etc. A knowledge
of our guilt, and a sense of danger, will not of themselves keep us
from falling; nay, these, if alone, may (as in the above case) thrust
us down the slippery places.

We are truly secure only when our eye is on Jesus, and our hand locked
in his hand.

So that the history of backslidings, instead of leading us to doubt the reality
of grace in believers, will only be found to teach us two great lessons, viz.
the vast importance of pressing immediate salvation on awakened souls,
and the reasonableness of standing in doubt of all, however deep their
convictions, who have not truly fled to the hope set before them.

There was another ground of prejudice against the whole work, arising
from the circumstance that the Lord had employed in it young men
not long engaged in the work of the ministry, rather than the fathers
in Israel.

But herein it was that sovereign grace shone forth the more conspicuously.
Do such objectors suppose that God ever intends the honor of man in
a work of Revival?

Is it not the honor of his own name that He seeks?
Had it been his wish to give the glory to man at all, then indeed
it might have been asked, "Why does He pass by the older pastors,
and call for the inexperienced youth?"

But when sovereign grace was
coming to bless a region in the way that would redound most to the
glory of the Lord, can we conceive a wiser plan than to use the sling
of David in bringing down the Philistine?  There is no more oppressive
despotism than that which presents itself under this triple form.

This incessant creation of restrictive laws and regulations, surrounding the pettiest actions
of existence with the most complicated formalities, inevitably has for its result the confining
within narrower and narrower limits of the sphere in which the citizen may move freely.  Victims
of the delusion that equality and liberty are the better assured by the multiplication of laws,
nations daily consent to put up with trammels increasingly burdensome. The greater part had formed
themselves into a compact body, and kept the enemy at bay till their offer of surrender upon terms had
been accepted. But then the ministers loudly demanded their lives; they pronounced the capitulation
sinful, and therefore void; and had the satisfaction to behold the
whole body of captives massacred in

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1645.

Sept. 6.] [Sidenote b: A.D. 1645.

Sept. 13.]

cold blood, not the men only, but also every woman and child found
upon the Haugh.  They it is who must necessarily exhibit the initiative,
enterprising, and guiding spirit in which private persons are lacking.  It falls on them to
undertake everything, direct everything, and take everything under their protection.  The State
becomes an all-powerful god.  Still experience shows that the power of such gods was never
either very durable or very strong.

This progressive restriction of all liberties in the case of certain peoples, in spite of an
outward license that gives them the illusion that these liberties are still in their possession,
seems at least as much a consequence of their old age as of any particular system. These provisions, whatever
the opinion entertained as to the wisdom of such laws, are well
within the principle laid down by the Fifteenth Amendment. But several
Southern States have gone a step further, and by means of the so-called
'grandfather laws,' have exempted certain ignorant white men from the necessity
of meeting the educational and property tests. These unfair 'grandfather
laws,' however, in some of the states adopting them, have now expired
by limitation.

Let me then lay down this general proposition:--

Nowhere in the South
to-day is the Negro cut off LEGALLY, as a Negro, from the ballot.

Legally, to-day, any Negro who can meet the comparatively slight requirements as to education, or
property, or both, can cast his ballot on a basis of equality with
the white man.

I have emphasized the word legally, for I know the PRACTICAL difficulties
which confront the Negro votes in many parts of the South.

The point I wish to make is that legally the Negro is essentially the
political equal of the white man; but that practically, in the enforcement
of the law, the legislative ideal is still pegged out far beyond the
actual performance.

Now, then, if we are interested in the problem of democracy, we have two courses open to us.
We may think the laws are unjust to the Negro, and incidentally to
the 'poor white' man as well.

If we do, we have a perfect right to agitate for changes; and we can do
much to disclose, without heat, the actual facts regarding the complicated
and vexatious legislative situation in the South, as regards the
suffrage.

Every change in the legislation upon this subject should, indeed, be
jealously watched, that the principle of political equality between
the races be not legally curtailed.

The doctrine laid down in the Fifteenth Amendment must, at any hazard,
be maintained.

But, personally,--and I am here voicing a profound conviction,--I think
our emphasis at present should be laid upon the practical rather
than upon the legal aspect of the problem; I think we should take
advantage of the widely prevalent feeling in the South that the question
of suffrage has been settled, legally, for some time to come: of
the desire on the part of many Southern people, both white and colored,
to turn aside from the discussion of the political status of the Negro.

In

short, let us for the time being accept the laws as they are, and
build upward from that point.

Let us turn our attention to the practical task of finding out why
it is that the laws we already have are not enforced, and how best
to secure an honest vote for every Negro and equally for every 'poor
white' man, who is able to meet the requirements, but who for one
reason or another does not or cannot now exercise his rights.

I include the disfranchised white man as well as the Negro, because
I take it that we are interested, first of all, in democracy, and
unless we can arouse the spirit of democracy, South and North, we
can hope for justice neither for Negroes, nor for the poorer class
of white men, nor for the women of the factories and shops, nor for
the children of the cottonmills.

Taking up this side of the problem we shall discover two entirely
distinct difficulties:--

First, we shall find many Negroes, and indeed hundreds of thousands of
white men as well, who might vote, but who, through ignorance, or inability
or unwillingness to pay the poll-taxes, or from mere lack of interest,
disfranchise themselves.
  What constituted a people, a unity,
a whole, becomes in the end an agglomeration of individualities lacking cohesion, and artificially
held together for a time by its traditions and institutions.  It is at this stage that men,
divided by their interests and aspirations, and incapable any longer of self-government, require
directing in their pettiest acts, and that the State exerts an absorbing influence.

With the definite loss of its old ideal the genius of the race entirely disappears; it is a
mere swarm of isolated individuals and returns to its original state--that of a crowd.  Without
consistency and without a future, it has all the transitory characteristics of crowds. Why does
the Commune feed this collection of malefactors in your prisons, while the money they cost us daily would
be so useful to the women and children of those who are fighting for the cause of Paris? We are assured
that one of the prisoners ate half a chicken for his dinner yesterday; how many good patriots might
have been saved from suffering with the sum which was taken from
the chests of the Republic for this orgie!very year passes over the heads of the great
mass of university students without having awakened them to any intellectual
life; the universities are scholarship-factories producing good articles
but with a terrible waste of raw material.

The other main type of university enthrones 'research' as its summum bonum. Possibly research is as
good a purpose as a man can set before him, but it is not the sole aim in life. And when one
contemplates the band of recruits added each year to the army of investigators,
and the choice of ever minuter fields--not to say lanes and alleys--of
research, one is led to doubt whether research is not one of the disintegrating
forces of society, and whether ever increasing specialisation must
not mean a perpetual narrowing of human sympathies in the intellectual
leaders of mankind.

  What constituted a people, a unity,
a whole, becomes in the end an agglomeration of individualities lacking cohesion, and artificially
held together for a time by its traditions and institutions.  It is at this stage that men,
divided by their interests and aspirations, and incapable any longer of self-government, require
directing in their pettiest acts, and that the State exerts an absorbing influence.

With the definite loss of its old ideal the genius of the race entirely disappears; it is a
mere swarm of isolated individuals and returns to its original state--that of a crowd.  Without
consistency and without a future, it has all the transitory characteristics of crowds. Why does
the Commune feed this collection of malefactors in your prisons, while the money they cost us daily would
be so useful to the women and children of those who are fighting for the cause of Paris? We are assured
that one of the prisoners ate half a chicken for his dinner yesterday; how many good patriots might
have been saved from suffering with the sum which was taken from
the chests of the Republic for this orgie!



