

In 1876 the Queen opened Parliament in person.

On the 25th of February her Majesty, accompanied by the Princess of Wales, Princess Beatrice,
and Prince Leopold, and received by the Duke of Edinburgh, attended a state concert given in
the morning at the Albert Hall. Since 1866 the Queen had been able gradually to hear and enjoy
again the music in which she had formerly delighted, but she had taken the gratification in
her domestic life. Her royal duties had been only intermitted for the briefest space. Every
act of beneficence and gracious queenliness had been long ago resumed. But no place of public
amusement had seen the face of the widowed Queen.

Lady Augusta Stanley died, after a lingering illness, on the 1st of March. It was the close--much
lamented from the highest to the lowest-- of a noble and beautiful life. The Queen afterwards
erected a memorial cross to Lady Augusta Stanley's memory in the grounds at Frogmore.

On the 7th of March her Majesty, accompanied by Princess Beatrice, opened a new wing of the
London Hospital.

Two days afterwards the statue of the Prince Consort in the Albert Memorial was unveiled without
any ceremony. The whole memorial thus completed stood, as it stands to-day, one of the most
splendid tokens --apart from its artistic merit--of a nation's gratitude and a Queen's love.
Opinions may differ on the use of gilding and colours, as they have been rarely employed in
this Country, upon the towering facades and pinnacles, and on the choice of the central gilt
figure of the Prince, colossal, in robes of state. But there can hardly be a doubt as to the
striking effect of the magnificent monument taken altogether, especially when it has the advantage
of a blue sky and brilliant sunshine, and of the charm of the four white marble groups which
surround the pedestal, seen in glimpses through the lavish green of Kensington Gardens. An
engraving of the statue of the Prince is given in Vol. I., p. 172.

In the end of the month the Queen, travelling incognito as Countess of Kent, having crossed
to Cherbourg, arrived at Baden-Baden accompanied by Princess Beatrice. Her Majesty visited
the Princess Hohenlohe's grave. She continued her journey to Coburg. In passing through Paris
on her return to England towards the end of April, her Majesty had an interview with the President
of the French Republic.

On the 1st of May the Queen was proclaimed Empress of India.

In the season the Empress of Germany and the ex-royal family of Hanover visited England. On
the 17th of August the Queen, with the Princes Arthur and Leopold and Princess Beatrice, stayed
two nights at Holyrood for the purpose of unveiling the equestrian statue to the late Prince
in Charlotte Square. Her Majesty recalled the coincidence that the last public appearances
of both her husband and mother were in Edinburgh--the Prince Consort in laying the foundation
stone of the new post-office in October, 1861, only six weeks before his death, the Duchess
of Kent at the summer volunteer review in 1860. The town was gay and bright and crowded with
company. In Charlotte Square the Duke of Buccleuch, chairman of the committee, read the address,
to which the Queen read a reply. On her return to the palace she knighted the sculptor, Sir
John Steel, and Professor Oakeley, the composer of the chorale which was sung on the occasion.
In the evening there was once more a great dinner at Holyrood--Scotts, Kerrs, Bruces, Primroses,
Murrays, &c., &c, being gathered round their Queen.

A month afterwards at Ballater, amidst pouring rain, her Majesty presented new colours to the
79th regiment, "Royal Scots," of which her father was colonel when she was born. She spoke
a few kind words to the soldiers, and accepted from them the gift of the old colours, which
are in her keeping.

On the 15th December the Queen and the Princess Beatrice paid a visit to Lord Beaconsfield
at Hughenden, lunched, and remained two hours, during which the royal visitors planted trees
on the lawn.

In consequence of fever in the Isle of Wight her Majesty held her Christmas at Windsor for
the first time since the death of the Prince Consort.

On New Year's day, 1877, the Queen was proclaimed Empress of India at Delhi. Her Majesty opened
Parliament on the 8th of February.

In September, when the war between Russia and Turkey was raging, her Majesty, Princess Beatrice,
the Duchess of Roxburgh, &c., spent a week at Loch Maree Hotel, enjoying the fine Ross-shire
scenery, making daily peaceful excursions, to which such a telegram as told of the bombardment
of Plevna must have been a curious accompaniment.

In February, 1878, the Queen's grandchild, Princess Charlotte of Prussia, was married at Berlin
to the hereditary Prince of Saxe- Meiningen, at the same time that her cousin, Princess Elizabeth
of Prussia, was married to the hereditary Grand Duke of Oldenburg.

On the 12th June the Queen's cousin, who had been the blind King of Hanover, died in exile
at Paris. His body was brought to England and was buried in the royal vault below St. George's
Chapel, Windsor.

The Queen saw a naval review off Spithead in August. In the end of the month the Queen, with
Princess Beatrice and Prince Leopold, stopped at Dunbar on the way north in order to pay a
visit to the Duke and Duchess of Roxburgh at Broxmouth. During her Majesty's stay she heard
of the death of Madame Van de Weyer at the New Lodge, and wrote in her journal, "Another link
with the past gone! with my beloved one, with dearest Uncle Leopold, and with Belgium."

In September a terrible accident occurred in the Thames off Woolwich, when the Princess Alice
steamboat on a pleasure trip was run down by the Bywell Castle, and about six hundred passengers
perished.

In the end of the month the Queen had the misfortune to lose her old and faithful servant Sir
Thomas Biddulph, who died at Abergeldie Mains. When she went to see him in his last illness
and took his hand, he said, "You are very kind to me," to which she answered, pressing his
hand, "You have always been very kind to me."

The Marquis of Lorne had been appointed Governor-General of Canada, for which he and Princess
Louise sailed, arriving at Ottawa on the 23rd of November.

Already the Queen, who was still at Balmoral, had heard of the disastrous outbreak of diphtheria
in the Darmstadt royal family. It attacked every member in succession, the youngest, Princess
Marie, a child of four years of age, dying on the 16th of November. It was supposed that the
Duchess had caught the infection from having once, in an abandonment of sorrow for the death
of her little daughter, forgotten the necessary precautions, and rested her head on the Duke's
pillow. Her case was dangerous from the first, and she gave orders lest she should die, but
did not seem to expect death. In her sleep she was heard to murmur, "Four weeks--Marie--my
father." On the morning before she died she read a letter from her mother. Her last words when
waking from sleep, she took the refreshment offered her, were, "Now I will again sleep quietly
for a longer time." Then she fell back into the slumber from which she never awoke. She died
on the 14th December, exactly four weeks from the death of her child, and seventeen years from
the death of her father. She was thirty-five years of age. Princess Alice was a woman of rare
qualities and remarkable benevolence.

The Prince of Wales and Prince Leopold went to Darmstadt and followed the funeral from the
church to the Rosenhoehe, where all that was mortal of Princess Alice rests beside the dust
of her children. A fine figure in white marble of the Princess, recumbent, clasping her little
daughter to her breast, has been placed close to the spot as a token of the loving remembrance
of her brothers and sisters. The engraving represents this beautiful piece of monumental sculpture.

In 1879 the Zulu war broke out. On the 11th of March Princess Louise of Prussia arrived in
England, and on the 13th she was married in St. George's Chapel, Windsor, in the presence of
the Queen and all the members of the royal family and the bride's father and mother, Prince
and Princess Frederick Charles of Prussia. The bridegroom was supported by his brothers, the
Prince of Wales and the Duke of Edinburgh. The bride walked between her father and the Crown
Prince of Germany, and was followed by eight noble bridesmaids. The Duke of Connaught was in
his twenty-ninth and Princess Louise of Prussia in her nineteenth year. Their residence is
Bagshot Park.

Twelve days later the Queen left with Princess Beatrice and, travelling by Cherbourg and Paris,
reached Lake Maggiore on the 28th. Immediately after their arrival the news came of the death,
from diphtheria of one of the Crown Princess of Germany's sons, Prince Waldemar of Prussia,
a fine boy of eleven years of age.

Her Majesty left on the 23rd of April, and returned by Milan, Turin, Paris, and Cherbourg,
to England.

The Queen's first great-grandchild, the child of the Princess of Saxe- Meiningen, was born
on the 12th of May.

On her Majesty's arrival at Balmoral on the 22nd of May she went to see the granite cross erected
to the "dear memory" of Alice, Duchess of Hesse, by her "sorrowing mother"

The Queen remained at Balmoral till after the 19th of June, when the melancholy tidings arrived
that the Prince Imperial had been killed in the Zulu war. Her Majesty left on the 20th, and
crossed over the Tay Bridge, which was destroyed in the terrible gale of the 29th December
of the same year.

In 1880 the Queen opened Parliament in person. Her Majesty, accompanied by Princess Beatrice,
left Windsor on the 25th of March for Baden-Baden and Darmstadt. The Queen was present at the
confirmation of the Princesses Victoria and Elizabeth, and visited the Rosenhoehe, where their
mother was buried.

About the same time the ex-Empress Eugenie embarked at Southampton for the Cape of Good Hope,
that she might see the place where her son fell on the anniversary of his death.

On the 24th of April the Princess Frederica of Hanover, elder daughter of the late King, was
married to Baron von Pawel-Rammingen, who had been equerry to her father, in St. George's Chapel,
Windsor. The Queen and several members of the royal family witnessed the ceremony.

In September the Duke of Connaught and his bride were welcomed to Balmoral, and a visit paid
to the cairn erected in their honour when their healths were drunk with "three times three"
in the presence of the Queen, Princess Beatrice, and the ladies and gentlemen of the household.
Later in the autumn the childless widow, the Empress Eugenie, stayed for a little time at Abergeldie.

At the close of 1880 Lord Beaconsfield published his last novel of "Endymion." George Eliot
died on the 22nd December, and in 1881 Thomas Carlyle died, on the 5th of February, in the
eighty-sixth year of his age.

Her Majesty's eldest grandson, Prince William of Prussia, was married at Berlin on the 27th
of February to Princess Augusta Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein. The bride was the granddaughter
of the Queen's sister, Princess Hohenlohe, and the niece of Prince Christian.

On March 13th the Emperor of Russia was assassinated.

Lord Beaconsfield died on the 19th of April at his house in Curzon Street. Ten days later the
Queen and Princess Beatrice visited Hughenden while the vault was still open, and placed flowers
on the coffin.

In June Prince Leopold took his seat in the House of Peers on his creation as Duke of Albany.

On the 19th of September President Garfield died, after a long struggle, with the effects of
his assassination, when the Queen wrote to Mrs. Garfield her indignation and pity as she had
expressed them to the widow of President Lincoln.

In 1882 a monument was erected in Hughenden Church to Lord Beaconsfield "by his grateful and
affectionate sovereign and friend,

                           "VICTORIA R. I.

                 Kings love him that speaketh right.

                                          PROVERBS xvi 13."

The Queen's speech on the opening of Parliament in 1882 announced the approaching marriage
of the Duke of Albany to Princess Helen of Waldeck.

On the 2nd of March, as her Majesty was entering her carriage at Windsor station, she was fired
at by a man named Roderick Maclean, the ball passing between her Majesty and Princess Beatrice.
The criminal, who proved to be of respectable antecedents, was arrested and committed for high
treason. He was tried, found not guilty on the plea of insanity, and sentenced to be confined
during her Majesty's pleasure. Much sympathy and indignation were felt, and addresses were
voted by both Houses of Parliament.

The Queen left with Princess Beatrice, twelve days afterwards, by Portsmouth, Cherbourg, and
Paris for Mentone, where her Majesty stayed a fortnight.

Princess Helen of Waldeck, accompanied by her parents, arrived on the 25th of April. The King
and Queen of the Netherlands, the bride's brother-in-law and sister, came next day, and the
marriage was celebrated on the 27th of April in St. George's Chapel, Windsor, before the Queen
and the royal family. The Duke of Albany was in his twenty-ninth, and Princess Helen in her
twenty-first year. Claremont was assigned to the young couple as their future residence. Eight
days after the marriage a sad event broke in on the marriage rejoicings; the bride's sister,
Princess William of Wurtemberg, died in childbirth at the age of twenty-three.

On the 6th of May the Queen, with Princess Beatrice, went in state to Epping Forest, where
they were received by the Lord Mayor, the Sheriffs, and the Duke of Connaught as ranger of
the forest. After an address the Queen declared the forest dedicated to the people's use.

On the same day Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke were assassinated in the Phoenix Park,
Dublin.

Garibaldi died at Caprera on the 2nd of June.

The Egyptian war broke out, and among the officers who sailed with the troops under Sir Garnet
Wolseley in August was the Duke of Connaught. The Duchess and her little daughter were with
the Queen at Balmoral, where anxious days were spent as mother and wife waited for the news
of battle. Successive telegrams announced that an attack was determined on, that the army had
marched, that fighting was going on, and that the enemy had been routed with heavy loss at
Tel-el-Kebir. The Queen wrote in her journal "How anxious we felt I need not say, but we tried
not to give way.... I prayed earnestly for my darling child, and longed for to-morrow to arrive.
Read Korner's beautiful, 'Gebet vor der Schlacht,' 'Vater ich rufe Dich,' ('Prayer before the
Battle,' 'Father, I call on Thee'). My beloved husband used to sing it often...."

At last came the welcome telegram, "A great victory, Duke safe and well," and a further telegram
with details and the concluding sentence, "Duke of Connaught is well and behaved admirably,
leading his brigade to the attack," and great was the joy and thankfulness.

In the meantime the Duke and Duchess of Albany had been expected on their first visit after
their marriage, and were met at Ballater. When their healths were drunk with Highland honours,
the happy Queen asked her son to propose another toast "to the victorious army in Egypt" coupled
with the Duke of Connaught's name, and the health was drunk in the hearing of his proud wife
and his unconscious infant in her nurse's arms.

In November the Queen reviewed the troops returned from Egypt in St. James Park, and afterwards
distributed war medals to the officers and men.

On the 4th December her Majesty opened the New Law Courts. She was received by the judges and
the representatives of the Bar. Lord Chancellor Selborne was raised to the rank of an earl,
and knighthood was conferred on the Governors of the Inns of Court.

The Duke of Connaught, accompanied by the Duchess, went to fill a military post in India.

We have seen that Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany, her Majesty's fourth and youngest son, who
was born on the 7th of April, 1853, had a delicate childhood and boyhood. He suffered from
a tendency to haemorrhage on the slightest provocation. Ailments in the joints are apt to accompany
such constitutional weakness, and one of Prince Leopold's knees was affected. As he grew up
he was again and again brought to the brink of the grave by sudden and violent fits of indisposition.
It is hardly necessary to say that the precariousness of Prince Leopold's health, combined
as it was with an amiable disposition and intellectual gifts, only served to endear him the
more to his family and friends.

The bodily weakness which set the Duke of Albany apart from his elder brothers and from lads
of his age, which prevented his being regularly trained either as a soldier or a sailor, in
the two professions which have been long held fit for princes, made him peculiarly the home-son
of the Queen, and caused him to be much longer associated with her than he might otherwise
have been, in her daily life and in her public appearances during the later years of her reign.

It did not follow from this circumstance that Prince Leopold relinquished an independent career
or led an idle life. In 1872, when he was in his twentieth year, he matriculated at Oxford,
where he kept his terms with credit alike to his original abilities and his conscientious diligence.
His honourable and pleasant connection with his university remained a strong tie to the end
of his short life, and it was doubtless in relation to Oxford that he came sensibly under the
influence of Mr. Buskin.

On leaving college Prince Leopold continued to lead the quiet yet busy life of a scholarly
and somewhat artistic young man to whom robust health has been denied. In addition to the many
dignities of his rank, including four orders of knighthood, belonging to the Garter, the Thistle,
the Star of India, and the Order of St. Michael and St. George, he became a D.O.L. of Oxford
in 1876, and in the following year a bencher of Lincoln's Inn. A less characteristic honour
given him was the rank of a colonel in the army.

It was a marked feature in Prince Leopold's individuality, as it had been in that of the Prince
Consort, that he sought to turn all his gifts and pursuits to practical use, not only in the
interests of science and art, but in order to improve the condition and increase the happiness
of the Queen his mother's people. His speeches on the increasing occasions when he took the
chair at public meetings in aid of the objects he had at heart, were remarkable in so young
a man, not only for good taste and for the amount of carefully acquired knowledge they displayed,
but for the spirit of enlightened humanity and benevolence which breathed through them. Gradually
but surely Prince Leopold's graceful, well-considered, kindly utterances, with which he was
ready whenever his services were required, were making a most favourable and permanent impression
on the public which was too soon to mourn his loss. The extension of education and of innocent
amusements through all classes, the Kyrle Society for the fostering of Art among the homeliest
surroundings, the higher and more general cultivation of music, the introduction of lessons
in cookery into the poorest schools; were among the schemes which the Duke of Albany warmly
advocated.

The Duke's marriage took place, as we have recorded, on the 27th of April, 1882, and in 1883
a daughter was born to him, who received the dear and hallowed name of "Alice."

In March, 1884, the Duke of Albany went to Cannes in order to escape the spring east winds,
leaving the Duchess, who was in a delicate state of health, behind him at Claremont. He appeared
to profit by his stay of a few weeks in the south of France, was unusually well in health and
in excellent spirits, entering generally into the society of the place. But on the 27th of
March, in ascending a stair at the Cercle Nautique, he slipped and fell, injuring his ailing
knee in a manner in which he had hurt it several times before. He was conveyed in a carriage
to the Villa Nevada, at which he was residing, and no danger was apprehended, the Duke writing
with his own hand to the Duchess, making light of the accident. During the following night,
however, he was observed to breathe heavily, was found to be in a fit, and in a few minutes
afterwards, early on the morning of the 28th of March, 1884, he died in the arms of his equerry,
Captain Perceval. The melancholy news was telegraphed to Windsor, and broken to the Queen by
the Master of her Household, Sir Henry Ponsonby. Under the shock and grief, with which the
whole country sympathised, her Majesty's first and constant thought seems to have been for
the young widow at desolate Claremont.

The Prince of Wales started for Cannes, and accompanied the remains of his brother to England,
the royal yacht Osborne landing them at Portsmouth. On the arrival of the melancholy cavalcade
at Windsor, on Friday, the 4th of April, the Queen went with her daughters, Princess Christian
and Princess Beatrice, to the railway station to meet the body of the beloved son who had been
the namesake of King Leopold, her second father, and the living image in character of the husband
she had adored. The coffin was carried by a detachment of the Seaforth Highlanders through
the room in which her Majesty awaited the procession, and conveyed to the chapel, where a short
service was afterwards held in the presence of the Queen and the near relatives of the dead,
and where the nearest of all, the widowed Duchess, paid one brief last visit to the bier.

On the following day, Saturday, the 5th of April, towards noon, the funeral took place, with
all the pomp of the late Prince's rank, and all the sorrow which his untimely end and many
virtues might well call forth. The Prince of Wales, as chief mourner, was supported by the
Crown Prince of Germany, the Duke of Hesse-Darmstadt, Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein,
Prince Albert Victor of Wales, and the Duke of Cambridge. The coffin, with its velvet pall
nearly hidden by flowers, was again borne by a party of the Seaforth Highlanders to the solemn
music of Chopin's "Funeral March" and the firing of the minute-guns, to the principal entrance
of St. George's Chapel. Among the same company that had been assembled when the Duke of Albany
had been married not two years before, were his father-in-law and sister-in- law, the Prince
of Waldeck-Pyrmont, and the Queen of Holland.

While the dirge-like music and the booming of the cannon filled the air, the Queen in deep
mourning entered, leaning on the arm of the Princess of Wales, and followed by Princess Christian,
the Princesses Louise and Beatrice, and Princess Frederica of Hanover, the royal party being
conducted by the Lord Chamberlain to seats near the choir steps. The Duchess of Albany and
the Duchess of Edinburgh were unable, from the state of their health, to attend the funeral.
As the coffin, every movement of which was regulated by the word of command spoken by the officer
appointed for the duty, passed through the screen and entered the choir, the Queen and Princesses
rose as if to greet him who came thus for the last time among them. The rest of the company
had remained standing from the moment of the Queen's entrance. The Dean of Windsor read the
Funeral Service. When the choir sang the anthem, "Blessed are the Departed," the Queen again
rose. Lord Brooke, a young man like the Prince who was gone, who had been with him at Oxford,
was one of the most intimate of his friends, and had been named one of the executors of his
will, threw, with evident emotion, the handful of earth on the coffin while the Dean recited
"Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust."

After the singing of the hymn, "Lead kindly light," during which her Majesty stood, she and
the Princesses quitted the chapel. Garter-King- at-Arms having proclaimed the style and titles
of the deceased, the coffin was lowered into the vault below St. George's Chapel, the Prince
of Wales gazing sadly on its descent. The Queen, with her long discipline of sorrow, had in
the middle of her affliction preserved her coolness throughout the trying ceremony. Prince
Leopold, Duke of Albany, had almost completed his thirty-first year. The anniversary of his
birthday was on the second day after his funeral.

The Queen has left her mark on the palaces and humbler houses which have been her homes. In
indicating it we have nothing to do with grey Windsor in its historical glories, or even in
its more picturesque lights. We leave behind the Waterloo Gallery, the Garter-room and the
quaint cottages of the Poor Knights in order to point out the touches which are the tokens
of Queen Victoria's presence. Though she dwelt here principally in the bright days of her early
reign, the chief signs which she will leave behind her are those of her widowhood and of the
faithful heart which has never forgotten its kindred dead. The most conspicuous work of the
Queen's is the restoration and rechristening of the Wolsey Chapel. As the Albert Chapel, the
beautiful little building is fall of the thought of him who was once master here. Its rich
mosaics, stained glass, "pictures for eternity" fretted in marble, scriptural allegories of
all the virtues--the very medallions of his children which surmount these unfading pictures,
are all in his honour. Specially so is the pure white marble figure of the Prince, represented
as a knight in armour, lying sword in hand, his feet against the hound--the image of loyalty,
while round the pedestal is carved his name and state, and the place of his burial, with the
epitaph which fits him well, "I have fought the good fight, I have finished my course."

In St. George's Chapel her Majesty has erected five monuments. A recumbent marble figure on
an alabaster sarcophagus is to her father, who was so fond of the infant daughter whom he left
a helpless baby. A white marble statue, larger than life, in royal robes, is to the man who
took the Duke of Kent's place, Leopold I., King of the Belgians, of whom his niece could cause
to be written with perfect truth "who was as a father to her, and she was to him as a daughter."
This statue is reared near the well-known monument to the dead King's never forgotten first
wife, Princess Charlotte of Wales. [Footnote: Princess Alice mentions in one of her published
letters that King Leopold had entertained a wish that he might be buried in England.] The third
and fourth monuments are to the Queen's aunt and cousin, the good Duchess of Gloucester and
the late King of Hanover. The last was executed by the Queen's nephew, Count Gleichen (Prince
Victor Hohenlohe). The inscription has several pathetic allusions. "Here has come to rest among
his kindred, the royal family of England, George V., the last King of Hanover." "Receiving
a kingdom which cannot be moved." "In this light he shall see light." The fifth monument has
been raised to a young eastern prince, son of Theodore, King of Abyssinia, who came to England
as a lad and died here "I was a stranger and ye took me in" is the epitaph.

At the entrance to the fine corridor which runs round two sides of the quadrangle of the Castle,
and forms a matchless in-door promenade, is Theed's beautiful group of the Queen and the Prince,
conceived and worked out after his death, with the solemn parting of two hearts tenderly attached
as the motive of the whole. The figures are not only ideally graceful while the likeness in
each is carefully preserved, the expression is beyond praise. The wife clings, in devotion
so perfect that impassioned hope contends with chill despair, to the arm of the husband who
looks down on her whom he loves best, with fond encouragement and the peace of the blessed
already settling on the stainless brow.

The corridor, among its innumerable vases, cabinets, and pictures of kings and great men--including
a fine portrait of Sir Walter Scott-- has a whole series of pictures illustrating, the leading
events of her Majesty's life, from her "First Council," by Wilkie, through her marriage, the
baptisms of the Princess Royal and the Prince of Wales, the first reception of Louis Philippe,
&c., &c., to the Princess Royal's marriage.

The white drawing-room, said to be a favourite room of her Majesty's, is not far from her private
sitting-room on the south-east side of the quadrangle which looks out on the Long Walk and
Windsor Forest, the white drawing-room commanding the Home Park.

Going down the stately double avenue of elms called the Long Walk, a lodge and side walk at
no great distance lead to Frogmore, with its mausoleum half hidden in luxuriant foliage. In
the octagonal building, which forms a cross, and is richly decorated with coloured marbles,
is the famous recumbent figure of the Prince in white marble by Baron Marochetti. When the
Queen's time comes, which her people pray may still be far distant, she will rest by her husband's
side, and a similar statue to his will mark where she lies. Memorials of Princess Alice and
of her Majesty's dead grandchildren are also here.

The late Duchess of Kent is buried in a separate vault beneath a dome supported by pillars
of polished granite and surrounded by a parapet with balconies. In the upper chamber, lit from
the top by stained glass, is a statue of the Duchess, by Theed.