The Ambassadors,

by

Henry James.

New York Edition (1909).

Volume I

Preface

Nothing is more easy than to state the subject of "The Ambassadors," which first appeared in
twelve numbers of The North American Review (1903) and was published as a whole the same year. That is
the history of the origin of the terms "agnostic" and "agnosticism"; and it will be observed
that it does not quite agree with the confident assertion of the reverend Principal of King's College,
that "the adoption of the term agnostic is only an attempt to shift the issue, and that it involves a mere
evasion" in relation to the Church and Christianity.[39]

* * * *
*

The last objection (I rejoice as much as my readers must do, that
it is the last) which I have to take to Dr. Wace's deliverance before
the Church Congress arises, I am sorry to say, on a question of morality.

"It

is, and it ought to be," authoritatively declares this official representative
of Christian ethics, "an unpleasant thing for a man to have to say plainly
that he does not believe in Jesus Christ" (l.c. p. 254).

Whether it is so depends, I imagine, a good deal on whether the man was brought up in a Christian household
or not. I do not see why it should be "unpleasant" for a Mahommedan or Buddhist to say so. But that
"it ought to be" unpleasant for any man to say anything which he
sincerely, and after due deliberation, believes, is, to my mind, a
proposition of the most profoundly immoral character.

I verily believe that the great good which has been effected in the world by Christianity has been
largely counteracted by the pestilent doctrine on which all the Churches have insisted, that
honest disbelief in their more or less astonishing creeds is a moral
offence, indeed a sin of the deepest dye, deserving and involving
the same future retribution as murder and robbery.

If we could only see, in one view, the torrents of hypocrisy and cruelty,
the lies, the slaughter, the violations of every obligation of humanity,
which have flowed from this source along the course of the history
of Christian nations, our worst imaginations of Hell would pale beside
the vision.

A thousand times, no! It ought not to be unpleasant to say that which
one honestly believes or disbelieves.

He has accordingly missed too much, though perhaps after all constitutionally qualified for
a better part, and he wakes up to it in conditions that press the spring of a terrible question. From here
again he would Depart and make him a Fresh Home, and so on until he Became an Old Man and had gained
neither Fortune nor Friends.

The
Other, being Disinclined to Change or Diversity of Scene, remained all
his Life in One Place.  The answer to which is that he now at all events
SEES; so that the business of my tale and the march of my action, not to say the precious moral
of everything, is just my demonstration of this process of vision.

Nothing can exceed the closeness with which the whole fits again into its germ.  That had been
given me bodily, as usual, by the spoken word, for I was to take the image over exactly as
I happened to have met it. A friend had repeated to me, with great appreciation, a thing or
two said to him by a man of distinction, much his senior, and to which a sense akin to that
of Strether's melancholy eloquence might be imputed--said as chance would have, and so easily
might, in Paris, and in a charming old garden attached to a house of art, and on a Sunday afternoon
of summer, many persons of great interest being present. This is made good by experience, which
can from the ashes of a plant revive the plant, and from its cinders recall it into its stalk
and leaves again.<67> What the art of man can do in these inferior
pieces, what blasphemy is it to affirm the finger of God cannot do
in those more perfect and sensible structures?

This is that mystical philosophy, from whence no true scholar becomes an atheist, but from the visible
effects of nature grows up a real divine, and beholds not in a dream,
as Ezekiel, but in an ocular and visible object, the types of his
resur- rection.

<i>Sect.</i> 49.--Now, the necessary mansions of our restored selves
are those two contrary and incompatible places we call heaven and
hell.

To define them, or strictly to determine what and
where these are, surpasseth my divinity. That elegant apostle, which
seemed to have a glimpse of heaven, hath left but a negative descrip- tion
thereof; which "neither eye hath seen, nor ear hath heard, nor can
enter into the heart of man:" he was translated out of himself to
behold it; but, being re- turned into himself, could not express it.

Saint John's description by emeralds, chrysolites, and precious stones, is too weak to express
the material heaven we behold. Briefly, therefore, where the soul hath the full measure and complement of
happiness; where the boundless appetite of that spirit remains completely
satisfied that it can neither desire addition nor alteration; that,
I think, is truly heaven: and this can only be in the enjoyment of
that essence, whose infinite goodness is able to terminate the desires
of itself, and the unsatiable wishes of ours.

Wherever
God will thus manifest him- self, there is heaven, though within the circle of this sensible world. Thus,
the soul of man may be in heaven anywhere, even within the limits of his own proper body; and
when it ceaseth to live in the body it may remain in its own soul, that is,
its Creator. And thus we may say that Saint Paul, whether in the body
or out of the body, was yet in heaven. To place it in the empyreal,
or beyond the tenth sphere, is to forget the world's destruction; for
when this sensible world shall be destroyed, all shall then be here
as it is now there, an empyreal heaven, a <i>quasi</i> vacuity; when
to ask where heaven is, is to demand where the presence of God is,
or where we have the glory of that happy vision.

Moses, that was bred up in all the learning of the Egyptians, committed a gross absurdity in philo- sophy,
when with these eyes of flesh he desired to see God, and petitioned
his Maker, that is truth itself, to a contra- diction.

Those that
imagine heaven and hell neighbours, and conceive a vicinity between those two extremes, upon consequence
of the parable, where Dives discoursed with Lazarus, in Abraham's
bosom, do too grossly con- ceive of those glorified creatures, whose
eyes shall easily out-see the sun, and behold without perspective
the extremest distances: for if there shall be, in our glori- fied
eyes, the faculty of sight and reception of objects, I could think
the visible species there to be in as un- limitable a way as now the
intellectual.

I grant that two bodies placed beyond the tenth sphere, or in a vacuity, according to Aristotle's
philosophy, could not behold each other, because there wants a body or
medium to hand and transport the visible rays of the object unto the sense;
but when there shall be a general defect of either medium to convey, or light
to prepare and dispose that medium, and yet a perfect vision, we must
suspend the rules of our philosophy, and make all good by a more
absolute piece of opticks.

<i>Sect.</i> 50.--I cannot tell how to say that fire is the essence
of hell; I know not what to make of purgatory, or conceive a flame
that can either prey upon, or purify the substance of a soul.

Those flames of sulphur, men- tioned in the scriptures, I take not to be understood of this present
hell, but of that to come, where fire shall make up the complement of our
tortures, and have a body or subject whereon to manifest its tyranny.

Some who have had the honour to be textuary in divinity are of opinion
it shall be the same specifical fire with ours. This is hard to conceive,
yet can I make good how even that may prey upon our bodies, and yet
not consume us: for in this material world, there are bodies that persist
invincible in the powerfulest flames; and though, by the action of fire,
they fall into ignition and liquation, yet will they never suffer a
destruction. I would gladly know how Moses, with an actual fire, calcined
or burnt the golden calf into powder: for that mystical metal of
gold, whose solary and celestial nature I admire, ex- posed unto the
violence of fire, grows only hot, and liquefies, but consumeth not;
so when the consumable and volatile pieces of our bodies shall be
refined into a more impregnable and fixed temper, like gold, though
they suffer from the action of flames, they shall never perish, but
lie immortal in the arms of fire.

And surely, if this flame must suffer only by the action of this element, there will many bodies escape; and
not only heaven, but earth will not be at an end, but rather a beginning. For at present it is not
earth, but a composition of fire, water, earth, and air; but at that
time, spoiled of these ingredients, it shall appear in a substance
more like itself, its ashes. Philosophers that opinioned the world's
destruction by fire, did never dream of annihilation, which is beyond
the power of sublunary causes; for the last and proper action of that
element is but vitrification, or a reduction of a body into glass;
and therefore some of our chymicks facetiously affirm, that, at the
last fire, all shall be crystalized and reverberated into glass, which
is the utmost action of that element.

Nor need we
fear this term, annihilation, or wonder that God will destroy the
works of his crea- tion: for man subsisting, who is, and will then truly
appear, a microcosm, the world cannot be said to be destroyed.

For the eyes of God, and perhaps also of our glorified selves, shall as really behold and contem- plate
the world, in its epitome or contracted essence, as now it doth at
large and in its dilated substance. In the seed of a plant, to the
eyes of God, and to the under- standing of man, there exists, though
in an invisible way, the perfect leaves, flowers, and fruit thereof;
for things that are in <i>posse</i> to the sense, are actually existent to
the understanding.

Thus God beholds all things, who contemplates as fully his works in their epitome as in their full volume,
and beheld as amply the whole world, in that little compendium of the sixth day, as in the scattered
and dilated pieces of those five before.

<i>Sect.</i> 51.--Men commonly set forth the torments of hell by fire,
and the extremity of corporal afflictions, and describe hell in the
same method that Mahomet doth heaven.

This indeed makes a noise, and drums in popular ears: but if this be the terrible piece thereof, it
is not worthy to stand in diameter with heaven, whose happiness consists in that part that is best able
to com- prehend it, that immortal essence, that translated divinity and colony of God, the soul.
Surely, though we place hell under earth, the devil's walk and purlieu is about it. Men speak too
popularly who place it in those flaming mountains, which to grosser
apprehensions re- present hell.

The heart of man is the place the devils dwell in; I feel sometimes a hell
within myself; Lucifer keeps his court in my breast; Legion is revived
in me. There are as many hells as Anaxagoras<68> conceited worlds.

There was more than one hell in Magdalene, when there were seven
devils; for every devil is an hell unto himself,<69> he holds enough
of torture in his own <i>ubi</i>; and needs not the misery of cir- cumference
to afflict him: and thus, a distracted con- science here is a shadow
or introduction unto hell here- after.

Who can but pity the merciful intention of those hands that do destroy themselves? The devil, were
it in his power, would do the like; which being im- possible, his
miseries are endless, and he suffers most in that attribute wherein he
is impassible, his im- mortality.

<i>Sect.</i> 52.--I thank God, and with joy I mention it, I was never
afraid of hell, nor ever grew pale at the description of that place.

I have so fixed my contempla- tions on heaven, that I have almost forgot the idea of hell; and am
afraid rather to lose the joys of the one, than endure the misery of the other: to be deprived
of them is a perfect hell, and needs methinks no addition to complete
our afflictions.

That terrible term hath never detained me from sin, nor do I owe any good action to the name thereof. I
fear God, yet am not afraid of him; his mercies make me ashamed of my sins, before his judgments afraid
thereof: these are the forced and secondary method of his wisdom, which
he useth but as the last remedy, and upon provocation;-- a course rather
to deter the wicked, than incite the virtuous to his worship. I can
hardly think there was ever any scared into heaven: they go the fairest
way to heaven that would serve God without a hell: other mercenaries,
that crouch unto him in fear of hell, though they term themselves
the servants, are indeed but the slaves, of the Almighty.

<i>Sect.</i> 53.--And to be true, and speak my soul, when I survey the
occurrences of my life, and call into account the finger of God, I can
perceive nothing but an abyss and mass of mercies, either in general
to mankind, or in particular to myself.

And, whether out of the prejudice of my affection, or an inverting and partial conceit of his
mercies, I know not,--but those which others term crosses, afflictions,
judgments, misfortunes, to me, who inquire further into them than their
visible effects, they both appear, and in event have ever proved,
the secret and dissembled favours of his affection.

It is a singular piece of wisdom to apprehend
truly, and without passion, the works of God, and so well to distinguish
his justice from his mercy as not to miscall those noble attributes;
yet it is likewise an honest piece of logick so to dispute and argue
the proceedings of God as to distinguish even his judgments into
mercies.

For God is merciful unto all, because better to the worst than the best deserve;
and to say he punisheth none in this world, though it be a paradox,
is no absurdity. To one that hath com- mitted murder, if the judge
should only ordain a fine, it were a madness to call this a punishment,
and to re- pine at the sentence, rather than admire the clemency of
the judge.

Thus, our offences being mortal, and deserving not only death but damnation,
if the goodness of God be content to traverse and pass them over
with a loss, misfortune, or disease; what frenzy were it to term this
a punishment, rather than an extremity of mercy, and to groan under
the rod of his judgments rather than admire the sceptre of his mercies!

There- fore to adore, honour, and admire him, is a debt of gratitude due from the obligation of our
nature, states, and conditions: and with these thoughts he that knows them best will not deny
that I adore him. That I obtain heaven, and the bliss thereof, is accidental,
and not the intended work of my devotion; it being a felicity I can
neither think to deserve nor scarce in modesty to expect.

For these two ends of us all, either as rewards or punishments, are mercifully
ordained and disproportionably disposed unto our actions; the one
being so far beyond our deserts, the other so infinitely below our
demerits.

<i>Sect.</i> 54.--There is no salvation to those that believe not in
Christ; that is, say some, since his nativity, and, as divinity affirmeth,
before also; which makes me much apprehend the end of those honest
worthies and philosophers which died before his incarnation.

It is hard to place those souls in hell, whose worthy lives do teach us virtue on earth. Methinks,
among those many subdivisions of hell, there might have been one limbo left for these. What a strange vision
will it be to see their poetical fictions converted into verities,
and their imagined and fancied furies into real devils!

How strange to them will sound the history of Adam, when they shall suffer
for him they never heard of!

When they who derive their genealogy from the gods, shall know they
are the unhappy issue of sinful man! It is an insolent part of reason,
to controvert the works of God, or question the justice of his proceedings.
Could humility teach others, as it hath instructed me, to con- template
the infinite and incomprehensible distance be- twixt the Creator and
the creature; or did we seriously perpend that one simile of St Paul,
"shall the vessel say to the potter, why hast thou made me thus?"
it would prevent these arrogant disputes of reason: nor would we argue
the definitive sentence of God, either to heaven or hell.

Men
that live according to the right rule and law of reason, live but in their own kind, as beasts do
in theirs; who justly obey the prescript of their natures, and therefore cannot reasonably demand
a reward of their actions, as only obeying the natural dictates
of their reason. It will, therefore, and must, at last appear, that all
salvation is through Christ; which verity, I fear, these great examples
of virtue must con- firm, and make it good how the perfectest actions
of earth have no title or claim unto heaven.

<i>Sect.</i> 55.--Nor truly do I think the lives of these, or of any
other, were ever correspondent, or in all points conformable, unto
their doctrines.

It is evident that Aristotle transgressed the rule of his own ethicks;<70> the stoicks, that condemn
passion, and command a man to laugh in Phalaris's<71> bull, could not endure without a groan
a fit of the stone or colick.

The scepticks,
that affirmed they knew nothing,<72> even in that opinion con- fute themselves,
and thought they knew more than all the world beside. Diogenes I hold
to be the most vain- glorious man of his time, and more ambitious in refus- ing
all honours, than Alexander in rejecting none.

Vice and the devil put a fallacy upon our reasons; and, provoking us too hastily to run from it, entangle
and profound us deeper in it. The duke of Venice, that weds himself unto the sea, by a ring of gold,<73>
I will not accuse of prodigality, because it is a solemnity of good use and consequence in the state: but
the philoso- pher, that threw his money into the sea to avoid avarice, was
a notorious prodigal.<74> There is no road or ready way to virtue; it is
not an easy point of art to dis- entangle ourselves from this riddle or web
of sin. To perfect virtue, as to religion, there is required a <i>panoplia</i>,
or complete armour; that whilst we lie at close ward against one vice, we lie
not open to the veney<75> of another.

And indeed wiser discretions, that have the thread of reason to conduct them, offend without a pardon; whereas
under heads may stumble without dishonour. There go so many circumstances to piece up one good action, that it
is a lesson to be good, and we are forced to be virtuous by the book. Again,
the practice of men holds not an equal pace, yea and often runs counter
to their theory; we naturally know what is good, but naturally pursue
what is evil: the rhetorick wherewith I persuade another cannot persuade
myself.

There is a depraved appetite in us, that will with patience hear the learned
instructions of reason, but yet perform no further than agrees to its
own irregular humour. In brief, we all are monsters; that is, a com- position of
man and beast: wherein we must endeavour to be as the poets fancy
that wise man, Chiron; that is, to have the region of man above that
of beast, and sense to sit but at the feet of reason.  There was in fine the TRIVIAL association, one of the vulgarest in
the world; but which give me pause no longer, I think, simply because its vulgarity is so advertised.
The revolution performed by Strether under the influence of the most interesting of great cities
was to have nothing to do with any betise of the imputably "tempted" state; he was to be thrown
forward, rather, thrown quite with violence, upon his lifelong trick of intense reflexion:
which friendly test indeed was to bring him out, through winding passages, through alternations
of darkness and light, very much IN Paris, but with the surrounding scene itself a minor matter,
a mere symbol for more things than had been dreamt of in the philosophy of Woollett.  Another
surrounding scene would have done as well for our show could it have represented a place in
which Strether's errand was likely to lie and his crisis to await him.  The LIKELY place had
the great merit of sparing me preparations; there would have been too many involved--not at
all impossibilities, only rather worrying and delaying difficulties--in positing elsewhere
Chad Newsome's interesting relation, his so interesting complexity of relations. Strether's
appointed stage, in fine, could be but Chad's most luckily selected one.  The young man had
gone in, as they say, for circumjacent charm; and where he would have found it, by the turn
of his mind, most "authentic," was where his earnest friend's analysis would most find HIM;
as well as where, for that matter, the former's whole analytic faculty would be led such a
wonderful dance.

"The Ambassadors" had been, all conveniently, "arranged for"; its first appearance was from
month to month, in the North American Review during 1903, and I had been open from far back
to any pleasant provocation for ingenuity that might reside in one's actively adopting--so
as to make it, in its way, a small compositional law--recurrent breaks and resumptions.  I
had made up my mind here regularly to exploit and enjoy these often rather rude jolts--having
found, as I believed an admirable way to it; yet every question of form and pressure, I easily
remember, paled in the light of the major propriety, recognised as soon as really weighed;
that of employing but one centre and keeping it all within my hero's compass. The thing was
to be so much this worthy's intimate adventure that even the projection of his consciousness
upon it from beginning to end without intermission or deviation would probably still leave
a part of its value for him, and a fortiori for ourselves, unexpressed. I might, however, express
every grain of it that there would be room for--on condition of contriving a splendid particular
economy. Other persons in no small number were to people the scene, and each with his or her
axe to grind, his or her situation to treat, his or her coherency not to fail of, his or her
relation to my leading motive, in a word, to establish and carry on.  But Strether's sense
of these things, and Strether's only, should avail me for showing them; I should know them
but through his more or less groping knowledge of them, since his very gropings would figure
among his most interesting motions, and a full observance of the rich rigour I speak of would
give me more of the effect I should be most "after" than all other possible observances together.
It would give me a large unity, and that in turn would crown me with the grace to which the
enlightened story-teller will at any time, for his interest, sacrifice if need be all other
graces whatever.  I refer of course to the grace of intensity, which there are ways of signally
achieving and ways of signally missing--as we see it, all round us, helplessly and woefully
missed.  Not that it isn't, on the other hand, a virtue eminently subject to appreciation--there
being no strict, no absolute measure of it; so that one may hear it acclaimed where it has
quite escaped one's perception, and see it unnoticed where one has gratefully hailed it.  After
all of which I am not sure, either, that the immense amusement of the whole cluster of difficulties
so arrayed may not operate, for the fond fabulist, when judicious not less than fond, as his
best of determinants.  That charming principle is always there, at all events, to keep interest
fresh: it is a principle, we remember, essentially ravenous, without scruple and without mercy,
appeased with no cheap nor easy nourishment.  It enjoys the costly sacrifice and rejoices thereby
in the very odour of difficulty--even as ogres, with their "Fee-faw-fum!" rejoice in the smell
of the blood of Englishmen.

Thus it was, at all events, that the ultimate, though after all so speedy, definition of my
gentleman's job--his coming out, all solemnly appointed and deputed, to "save" Chad, and his
then finding the young man so disobligingly and, at first, so bewilderingly not lost that a
new issue altogether, in the connexion, prodigiously faces them, which has to be dealt with
in a new light--promised as many calls on ingenuity and on the higher branches of the compositional
art as one could possibly desire. Now, if you pronounce Hinges in the French fashion, you give forth
an exclamation of distressful pain. The name cannot be shouted from a motor-cycle. It has its
difficulties even for the student of French.

So we all called it, plainly and bluntly, Hinges, as though it were
connected to a door. The inhabitants noticed this. Thinking that they
and their forefathers had been wrong--for surely these fine men with
red hats knew better than they--the English pronunciation spread. The village
became 'Ingees, and now only some unfashionable dotards in Béthune preserve
the tradition of the old pronunciation. It is not only Hinges that
has been thus decently attired in British garb. Le Cateau is Lee Catòo.
Boescheppe is Bo-peep. Ouderdon is Eiderdown.

Béthune was full of simple pleasures. First there were the public baths, cheap and good, and sundry coiffeurs
who were much in demand, for they made you smell sweetly. Then there
was a little blue and white café. The daughter of the house was well-favoured
and played the piano with some skill.

One of us spent all his spare time at this café in silent adoration--of the piano, for his French was exiguous
in the extreme. There was a patisserie crammed full of the most delicious cream-cakes. The despatch
rider who went to Hinges about 3.30 P.M. and did not return with
cakes for tea, found life unpleasant.

Near the station three damsels ruled a tavern. They were friendly and eager
to teach us French.

We might have left them with a sigh of regret if we had not once arrived
as they were eating their midday meal.

At one time the Germans dropped a few shells into Béthune, but did little
damage. Bombs fell too. One nearly ended the existence of "Sadders"--also
known as "Boo." It dropped on the other side of the street; doing our despatch
rider no damage, it slightly wounded Sergeant Croucher of the Cyclists
in a portion of his body that made him swear when he was classed as
a "sitting-up case."

Of all the towns behind the lines--Béthune, Estaires, Armentières, Bailleul,
Poperinghe--Béthune is the pleasantest. The people are charming. There
is nothing you cannot buy there. It is clean and well-ordered, and
cheerful in the rain. I pray that Béthune may survive the war--that after
peace has been declared and Berlin has been entered, I may spend
a week there and much money to the profit of the people and the satisfaction
of myself.

Now I will give some account of our adventures out with the brigades
round La Bassée.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] The first--in October and November.

[16] This is not an unthinking advertisement. After despatch riding from August
16 to February 18 my judgment should be worth something. I am firmly convinced
that if the Government could have provided all despatch riders with
Blackburnes, the percentage--at all times small--of messages undelivered
owing to mechanical breakdowns or the badness of the roads would have
been reduced to zero.

I have no interest in the Blackburne Company beyond a sincere admiration
of the machine it produces.

CHAPTER IX.

ROUND LA BASSÉE.

It had been a melancholy day, full of rain and doubting news. Those of us who were not "out" were strolling
up and down the platform arranging the order of cakes from home
and trying to gather from the sound of the gunning and intermittent
visits to the Signal Office what was happening.

Someone had been told that the old 15th was being hard pressed. Each of us regretted
loudly that we had not been attached to it, though our hearts spoke
differently.

Despatch riders have muddled thoughts. There is a longing for the excitement
of danger and a very earnest desire to keep away from it.

The C.O. walked on to the platform hurriedly, and in a minute or two I was off. It was lucky that the road
was covered with unholy grease, that the light was bad and there was transport on the road--for it is not
good for a despatch rider to think too much of what is before him.

My instructions were to report to the general and make myself useful. I was also cheerfully informed
that the H.Q. of the 15th were under a robust shell-fire. Little parties of sad-looking wounded
that I passed, the noise of the guns, and the evil dusk heartened me.

I rode into Festubert, which was full of noise, and, very hastily dismounting,
put my motor-cycle under the cover of an arch and reported to the general.
He was sitting at a table in the stuffy room of a particularly dirty tavern.
At the far end a fat and frightened woman was crooning to her child. Beside
her sat a wrinkled, leathery old man with bandaged head.

He had wandered into the street, and he had been cut about by shrapnel. The few wits he had ever
possessed were gone, and he gave every few seconds little croaks of
hate. Three telephone operators were working with strained faces at their
highest speed. The windows had been smashed by shrapnel, and bits of
glass and things crunched under foot. The room was full of noises--the
crackle of the telephones, the crooning of the woman, the croak of
the wounded old man, the clear and incisive tones of the general and
his brigade-major, the rattle of not too distant rifles, the booming
of guns and occasionally the terrific, overwhelming crash of a shell
bursting in the village.

I was given a glass of wine.

Cadell, the Brigade Signal Officer, and the Veterinary Officer, came
up to me and talked cheerfully in whispered tones about our friends.

There
was the sharp cry of shrapnel in the street and a sudden rattle against
the whole house.

The woman and child fled somewhere through a door, followed feebly by
the old man. The brigade-major persuaded the general to work in some less unhealthy
place. The telephone operators moved. A moment's delay as the general endeavoured
to persuade the brigade-major to go first, and we found ourselves under
a stalwart arch that led into the courtyard of the tavern. We lit pipes
and cigarettes.

The crashes of bursting shells grew more frequent, and the general remarked in a dry and injured tone--

"Their usual little evening shoot before putting up the shutters, I suppose."

But
first the Germans "searched" the village.

Now to search a village means to start at
one end of the village and place shells at discreet intervals until
the other end of the village is reached.

It is an unpleasant process for those in the middle of the village,
even though they be standing, as we were, in comparatively good shelter.

We
heard the Germans start at the other end of the village street. The crashes came
nearer and nearer, until a shell burst with a scream and a thunderous roar
just on our right.

We puffed away at our cigarettes for a second, and a certain despatch
rider wished he were anywhere but in the cursed village of Festubert
by Béthune. There was another scream and overwhelming relief. The next
shell burst three houses away on our left.

I knocked my pipe out and filled another.

The Germans finished their little evening shoot. We marched back very
slowly in the darkness to 1910 Farm.

This farm was neither savoury nor safe.

It was built round a courtyard which consisted of a gigantic hole crammed with manure in all the stages of
unpleasant putrefaction. One side is a barn; two sides consist of stables,
and the third is the house inhabited not only by us but by an incredibly
filthy and stinking old woman who was continually troubling the general
because some months ago a French cuirassier took one of her chickens.

The day after we arrived at this farm I had few despatches to take, so I wrote to Robert. Here is
some of the letter and bits of other letters I wrote during the following
days.

They will give you an idea of our state of mind:[17]

If you want something of the dramatic--I am writing in a farm under shrapnel
fire, smoking a pipe that was broken by a shell. For true effect I suppose
I should not tell you that the shrapnel is bursting about fifty yards the
other side of the house, that I am in a room lying on the floor, and
consequently that, so long as they go on firing shrapnel, I am perfectly
safe.

It's the dismallest of places. Two miles farther back the heavies are
banging away over our heads.

There are
a couple of batteries near the farm. Two miles along the road the four battalions
of our brigade are holding on for dear life in their trenches.

The country is open plough, with little clumps of trees, sparse hedges,
and isolated cottages giving a precarious cover. It's all very damp
and miserable, for it was raining hard last night and the day before.

I am in a little bare room with the floor covered with straw. Two telegraph
operators are making that infernal jerky clicking sound I have begun so
to hate.

Half a dozen men of the signal staff are lying about the floor looking at
week-old papers. In the next room I can hear the general, seated at a table
and intent on his map, talking to an officer that has just come from
the firing line.

Outside the window a gun is making a fiendish row, shaking the whole house.
Occasionally there is a bit of a rattle--that's shrapnel bullets falling
on the tiles of an outhouse.

If you came out you might probably find this exhilarating. I have just had a talk with our mutual
friend Cadell, the Signal Officer of this brigade, and we have decided that we are fed up with it. For one thing--after
two months' experience of shell fire the sound of a shell bursting within measurable distance makes
you start and shiver for a moment--reflex action of the nerves.

That is annoying. We both decided we would willingly change places with
you and take a turn at defending your doubtless excellently executed trenches
at Liberton.

The line to the ----[18] has just gone. It's almost certain death to relay
it in the day-time. Cadell and his men are discussing the chances while
somebody else has started a musical-box.

A man has gone out; I wonder if he will come back. The rest of the men have gone to sleep again. That gun
outside the window is getting on my nerves.

Well, well!

The shrapnel fire appears to have stopped for the present. No, there's a couple
together.

If they fire over this farm I hope they don't send me back to D.H.Q.

Do
you know what I long for more than anything else? A clean, unhurried breakfast
with spotless napery and shining silver and porridge and kippers.

I don't think these long, lazy after-breakfast hours at Oxford were
wasted.

They are a memory and a hope out here. The shrapnel is getting nearer and
more frequent. We are all hoping it will kill some chickens in the
courtyard.

The laws against looting are so strict.

What an excellent musical-box, playing quite a good imitation of Cavalleria
Rusticana.

I guess
we shall have to move soon. Too many shells. Too dark to write any more----

After all, quite the most important things out here are a fine meal and a good bath. If you consider
the vast area of the war the facts that we have lost two guns or advanced five miles are of very little
importance.

War, making one realise the hopeless insignificance of the individual, creates in one
such an immense regard for self, that so long as one does well it
matters little if four officers have been killed reconnoitring or
some wounded have had to be left under an abandoned gun all night.

I started with an immense interest in tactics. This has nearly all
left me and I remain a more or less efficient despatch-carrying animal--a
part of a machine realising the hopeless, enormous size of the machine.

The
infantry officer after two months of modern war is a curious phenomenon.[19]
He is probably one of three survivors of an original twenty-eight.

He is not frightened of being killed; he has forgotten to think about
it. But there is a sort of reflex fright. He becomes either cautious
and liable to sudden panics, or very rash indeed, or absolutely mechanical
in his actions.

The first state means the approach of a nervous breakdown, the second a near death. There are very few, indeed,
who retain a nervous balance and a calm judgment. And all have a harsh frightened voice. If you came suddenly
out here, you would think they were all mortally afraid. But it is only giving orders for hours together
under a heavy fire.

Battle
noises are terrific. At the present moment a howitzer is going strong behind
this, and the concussion is tremendous. The noise is like dropping a traction-engine
on a huge tin tray. A shell passing away from you over your head is like
the loud crackling of a newspaper close to your ear. It makes a
sort of deep reverberating crackle in the air, gradually lessening,
until there is a dull boom, and a mile or so away you see a thick
little cloud of white smoke in the air or a pear-shaped cloud of grey-black
smoke on the ground.

Coming towards you a shell makes a cutting, swishing note, gradually
getting higher and higher, louder and louder. There is a longer note one instant
and then it ceases. Shrapnel bursting close to you has the worst
sound.

It is almost funny in a village that is being shelled. Things simply disappear. You are standing in an archway a little
back from the road--a shriek of shrapnel. The windows are broken and
the tiles rush clattering into the street, while little bullets and
bits of shell jump like red-hot devils from side to side of the street,
ricochetting until their force is spent.

Or a deeper bang, a crash, and a whole house tumbles down.

3/4-hour later.--Curious life this. Just after I had finished the last sentence,
I was called out to take a message to a battery telling them to shell
a certain village.

Here am I wandering out, taking orders for the complete destruction of a village
and probably for the death of a couple of hundred men[20] without a thought,
except that the roads are very greasy and that lunch time is near.

Again, yesterday, I put our Heavies in action, and in a quarter of an hour a fine old church, with
what appeared from the distance a magnificent tower, was nothing but a grotesque heap of ruins. The Germans were
loopholing it for defence.

Oh the waste, the utter damnable waste of everything out here--men,
horses, buildings, cars, everything.

Those who talk about war being a salutary discipline are those who remain at home. In a modern war there
is little room for picturesque gallantry or picture-book heroism. We are all either animals or machines,
with little gained except our emotions dulled and brutalised and nightmare
flashes of scenes that cannot be written about because they are unbelievable.

I wonder what difference you will find in us when we come home----

Do
you know what a night scare is?

In our last H.Q. we were
all dining when suddenly there was a terrific outburst of rifle-fire
from our lines. We went out into the road that passes the farm and
stood there in the pitch darkness, wondering. The fire increased
in intensity until every soldier within five miles seemed to be revelling in
a lunatic succession of "mad minutes." Was it a heavy attack on our lines?
Soon pom-poms joined in sharp, heavy taps--and machine guns.

The lines to the battalions were at the moment working feebly, and what
the operators could get through was scarcely intelligible. Ammunition
limbers were hurried up, and I stood ready to dart anywhere. For twenty
minutes the rifle-fire seemed to grow wilder and wilder.

At last stretcher-bearers came in with a few wounded and reported
that we seemed to be holding our own.

Satisfactory so far. Then there were great flashes of shrapnel over
our lines; that comforted us, for if your troops are advancing you
don't fire shrapnel over the enemy's lines.

You never know
how soon they may be yours. The firing soon died down until we heard
nothing but little desultory bursts. Finally an orderly came--the Germans had
half-heartedly charged our trenches but had been driven off with loss.
We returned to the farm and found that in the few minutes we had been outside
everything had been packed and half-frightened men were standing
about for orders.

The explanation
of it all came later and was simple enough. The French, without
letting us know, had attacked the Germans on our right, and the Germans to
keep us engaged had made a feint attack upon us. So we went back to
dinner.

In modern war the infantryman hasn't much of a chance. Strategy
nowadays consists in arranging for the mutual slaughter of infantry by the
opposing guns, each general trusting that his guns will do the greater
slaughter.

And half gunnery
is luck. The day before yesterday we had a little afternoon shoot at where we
thought the German trenches might be. The Germans unaccountably retreated,
and yesterday when we advanced we found the trenches crammed full
of dead.

By a combination of intelligent anticipation and good luck we had hit them
exactly----

From these letters you will be able to gather what mood we were in and something
of what the brigade despatch rider was doing. After the first day
the Germans ceased shrapnelling the fields round the farm and left
us nearly in peace.

There I met Major Ballard, commanding the 15th Artillery Brigade, one of
the finest officers of my acquaintance, and Captain Frost, the sole
remaining officer of the Cheshires. He was charming to me; I was particularly
grateful for the loan of a razor, for my own had disappeared and
there were no despatch riders handy from whom I could borrow.

Talking of the Cheshires reminds me of a story illustrating the troubles
of a brigadier. The general was dining calmly one night after having arranged
an attack. All orders had been sent out. Everything was complete and ready.
Suddenly there was a knock at the door and in walked Captain M----, who reported his
arrival with 200 reinforcements for the Cheshires, a pleasant but irritating
addition. The situation was further complicated by the general's
discovery that M---- was senior to the officer then in command of
the Cheshires. Poor M---- was not left long in command. A fortnight
later the Germans broke through and over the Cheshires, and M----
died where a commanding officer should.

From 1910 Farm I had one
good ride to the battalions, through Festubert and along to the Cuinchy
bridge. For me it was interesting because it was one of the few times
I had ridden just behind our trenches, which at the moment were just
north of the road and were occupied by the Bedfords.

In a day or
two we returned to Festubert, and Cadell gave me a shake-down on a
mattress in his billet--gloriously comfortable. The room was a little
draughty because the fuse of a shrapnel had gone right through the
door and the fireplace opposite. Except for a peppering on the walls
and some broken glass the house was not damaged; we almost laughed
at the father and mother and daughter who, returning while we were
there, wept because their home had been touched. Mixed with everything
was the apprehension, already, on Strether's part, that it would, at best, throughout, prove
the note of Europe in quite a sufficient degree.

That note had been meanwhile--since the previous afternoon, thanks to this happier device--such
a consciousness of personal freedom as he hadn't known for years; such a deep taste of change
and of having above all for the moment nobody and nothing to consider, as promised already,
if headlong hope were not too foolish, to colour his adventure with cool success.  There were
people on the ship with whom he had easily consorted--so far as ease could up to now be imputed
to him--and who for the most part plunged straight into the current that set from the landing-stage
to London; there were others who had invited him to a tryst at the inn and had even invoked
his aid for a "look round" at the beauties of Liverpool; but he had stolen away from every
one alike, had kept no appointment and renewed no acquaintance, had been indifferently aware
of the number of persons who esteemed themselves fortunate in being, unlike himself, "met,"
and had even independently, unsociably, alone, without encounter or relapse and by mere quiet
evasion, given his afternoon and evening to the immediate and the sensible.  They formed a
qualified draught of Europe, an afternoon and an evening on the banks of the Mersey, but such
as it was he took his potion at least undiluted.  He winced a little, truly, at the thought
that Waymarsh might be already at Chester; he reflected that, should he have to describe himself
there as having "got in" so early, it would be difficult to make the interval look particularly
eager; but he was like a man who, elatedly finding in his pocket more money than usual, handles
it a while and idly and pleasantly chinks it before addressing himself to the business of spending.
That he was prepared to be vague to Waymarsh about the hour of the ship's touching, and that
he both wanted extremely to see him and enjoyed extremely the duration of delay--these things,
it is to be conceived, were early signs in him that his relation to his actual errand might
prove none of the simplest.  He was burdened, poor Strether--it had better be confessed at
the outset--with the oddity of a double consciousness.  There was detachment in his zeal and
curiosity in his indifference.

After the young woman in the glass cage had held up to him across her counter the pale-pink
leaflet bearing his friend's name, which she neatly pronounced, he turned away to find himself,
in the hall, facing a lady who met his eyes as with an intention suddenly determined, and whose
features--not freshly young, not markedly fine, but on happy terms with each other--came back
to him as from a recent vision.  For a moment they stood confronted; then the moment placed
her:  he had noticed her the day before, noticed her at his previous inn, where--again in the
hall--she had been briefly engaged with some people of his own ship's company.  Nothing had
actually passed between them, and he would as little have been able to say what had been the
sign of her face for him on the first occasion as to name the ground of his present recognition.
Recognition at any rate appeared to prevail on her own side as well--which would only have
added to the mystery.  All she now began by saying to him nevertheless was that, having chanced
to catch his enquiry, she was moved to ask, by his leave, if it were possibly a question of
Mr. Waymarsh of Milrose Connecticut--Mr. Waymarsh the American lawyer.

"Oh yes," he replied, "my very well-known friend.  He's to meet me here, coming up from Malvern,
and I supposed he'd already have arrived. But he doesn't come till later, and I'm relieved
not to have kept him. Do you know him?" Strether wound up.

It wasn't till after he had spoken that he became aware of how much there had been in him of
response; when the tone of her own rejoinder, as well as the play of something more in her
face--something more, that is, than its apparently usual restless light--seemed to notify him.
"I've met him at Milrose--where I used sometimes, a good while ago, to stay; I had friends
there who were friends of his, and I've been at his house.  I won't answer for it that he would
know me," Strether's new acquaintance pursued; "but I should be delighted to see him.  Perhaps,"
she added, "I shall--for I'm staying over."  She paused while our friend took in these things,
and it was as if a good deal of talk had already passed. They even vaguely smiled at it, and
Strether presently observed that Mr. Waymarsh would, no doubt, be easily to be seen. This,
however, appeared to affect the lady as if she might have advanced too far.  She appeared to
have no reserves about anything. "Oh," she said, "he won't care!"--and she immediately thereupon
remarked that she believed Strether knew the Munsters; the Munsters being the people he had
seen her with at Liverpool. 

"Judy (she's my wife) she tell me she heah Miss Anne when she axed ole missis mout she wear mo'nin' fur 'im.
I don' know how dat is; but when we buried 'im nex' day, she wuz de one whar walked arfter de coffin, holdin'
ole marster, an' ole missis she walked next to 'em."

"Well, we buried Marse Chan dyar in de ole grabeyard, wid de fleg wrapped roun' 'im, an' he face lookin'
like it did dat mawnin' down in de low groun's, wid de new sun shinin'
on it so peaceful.

Dat warn' so mighty long, 'cause ole marster he died dat fall, when dey wuz fallerin' fur wheat--I had jes' married
Judy den--an' ole missis she warn' long behine him. We buried her by him next summer. Miss Anne she went
in de hospitals toreckly arfter ole missis died; an' jes' fo' Richmond
fell she come home sick wid de fever.

Yo' nuvver would 'a' knowed her fur de same ole Miss Anne.

She wuz light ez a piece o' peth, an' so white, 'cep' her eyes an'
her sorrel hyar, an' she kep' on gittin' whiter an' weaker.

Judy she sut'n'y did nuss her faithful. But she nuvver got no betterment!
De fever an' Marse Chan's bein' kilt hed done strain her, an' she
died jes' 'fo' de folks wuz sot free.

"So we buried Miss Anne right by Marse Chan, in a place whar ole missis hed tole
us to leave, an' dey's bofe on 'em sleep side by side over in de ole grabeyard
at home.

"An' will yo' please tell me, marster? Dey tells me dat de Bible sey
dyar won' be marryin' nor givin' in marriage in heaven, but I don'
b'lieve it signifies dat--does yo'?"

I gave him the comfort of my earnest belief in some other interpretation,
together with several spare "eighteen-pences," as he called them,
for which he seemed humbly grateful.

And as I rode away I heard him calling across the fence to his wife,
who was standing in the door of a small whitewashed cabin, near which
we had been standing for some time:

"Judy, have Marse Chan's dawg
got home?"

MR. BIXBY'S CHRISTMAS VISITOR.

BY CHARLES S. GAGE.

Appleton's Journal, December 30, 1871.

At the head of the first flight of stairs, and on opposite sides of the
landing, were the respective rooms of Mr. Bixby and Mr. Bangs. The
house in which they lived stood in a quiet and retired street on the
lower and western side of New York, a locality which was once inhabited
by fashionable families, afterward by old-fashioned families, and
at the time of our story by the keepers of boarding-houses for single
men.

Mr. Henry Bixby and Mr. Alfred Bangs were single men--Mr. Bangs, the
wine-merchant, because he liked wine and song so well that he never
had leisure to think of women, because he was fat, because he was
red in the face, and, if more reasons are necessary, because his fingers
were chubby and short.

For twenty years, day by day, Mr. Bangs had been absorbed in business. For twenty years, night after night, it had
been his custom to entertain his friends at his apartment in not
a very quiet way.

He was so happy, and bulbous, and jolly, that he had never thought of marriage. Yet he might easily have been
mistaken by the casual observer for a family man. He wore a white vest when it wasn't too cold; his linen
was painfully plain. There was not a sign of jewelry about him. He wore low shoes, which he tied with
a ribbon. This was Mr. Bangs.

Not quite so old in years as the opposite lodger was Mr. Bixby, known
to his few friends as a genial philosopher and poet, to the public
as the literary critic of one of the great daily papers.

He might have been thirty-five years of age, but, as he had lived more for others than for himself,
as he had made a study and not a pleasure of life, his gray eyes and the other features of his
face suggested to whoever met him a longer past. There was something about him that caused men to wonder,
not what he was, but what he had been.

For ten years Mr. Bangs and Mr. Bixby had been inmates of the house
together. Mr. Bangs had been there longer. The present landlady had
received as a legacy from her predecessor, who did not care to take him
away, Mr. Bangs.

As she said, she made a present of Bangs.

Long as they had known each other, the two lodgers were only acquaintances.

Sometimes, on a Sunday afternoon, they would walk out in company, stroll
down to the Battery, and there smoke their cigars and watch the ships,
but beyond this point of sociability, which neither enjoyed, there
was nothing more.

Never had Bixby read Bangs any poem he had made, nor did ever Bangs
invite Bixby to meet his convivial friends of an evening to play whist
or to partake of his mulled ale.

In fact, Mr. Bixby had been often and with great enthusiasm voted an
unsocial fellow by the cronies of Mr. Bangs, but he rose somewhat
in their estimation when they were informed that he had consented
to exchange rooms with their host.

"He isn't such a grouty fellow, after all," said Bangs.

"I told him that we were too near the street, and that some one had been
complaining to the landlady of our singing. He didn't even stop to think,
but agreed to do it at once. He thought the light would be better here.
Now, fellows, I call that doing the fair thing."

And the speech of Mr. Bangs was applauded.

It was the morning of the day before Christmas that the change was
effected.

In the closet where had been the bottles, the decanters, glasses, and pickle-jars
of the late occupant, Mr. Bixby had arranged shelves, and filled them with
his books. Over the mantel, from which Mr. Bangs had taken away a
colored print of a bull-dog in an overcoat, Mr. Bixby hung a fine
engraving of the Madonna, and on the mantel itself he had placed
his clock.

It was a small French clock under a crystal, so that its rapidly-swinging
pendulum could be easily seen. All bachelors, however negligent of
their surroundings, have some one hobby among articles of furniture.

It may be an easy-chair, or a book-case, or a chandelier--there is one thing
that must be the best of its kind. There could be no doubt, from
the care with which Mr. Bixby placed his clock in its position, and
from time to time compared it with his watch, that this was his hobby.

It had the three requisites which he demanded in a clock. It kept correct time without failing,
its pendulum swung rapidly, and was plainly visible. Time past was
the happiness of Mr. Bixby, and this clock told him continually that
all was being done that could be done to induce the hours of every
day to go over to the majority.

He depended upon this clock.

He was surer of its mechanism than of that of his own heart.

What with hanging his pictures and arranging his furniture, and with
many other little things which had to be done, Mr. Bixby was busily
employed all day.

But the task was not an unpleasant one. His heart was in the work,
for there was hardly an object in the room not nearly associated with
some event in his past life.

After carefully brushing the dust from an old writing-desk, which had
evidently once belonged to a lady, he placed it upon the rug in front
of the fire. Only on Christmas-eves was this desk opened.

"It is curious," thought Mr. Bixby, "that I should have moved this
day, of all days in the year!"

Often in his work he thought of stopping to take from the desk an old
packet of letters, and reading them once more. But it was not yet
time, and, moreover, he was continually interrupted.

First, there came some one to his door with "Two dozen Congress-water
for Mr. Bangs;" then one with "Mr. Bangs's boots," and another to
tell Mr. Bangs that "the pup was big enough to take away."

Finally, came Bangs himself, to complain of like interruptions, and to bid
him good-by.

"Here is some manuscript a boy left for you. You will have to attend both
doors now. I am off to spend Christmas. We are going to have a Tom-and-Jerry
party in Jersey.

You know--

"'The Tom-and-Jerry days have come, the happiest in the year!'

"Good rendering, eh?

That isn't all:

"'I only wish to live till the juleps come again!'"

And Mr. Bangs laughed uproariously, even after he had said, "Good-by,"
and shut the door behind him.

"What a personification of Bacchus!" thought Mr. Bixby--

"'Ever laughing, ever young.'

"He will be young as long as he lives, but I am afraid that won't be long. If
ever there was a man in immediate danger of apoplexy, Bangs is that man."

It was after dinner when Mr. Bixby lighted his drop-light and sat
down before the fire. He pushed an ottoman in front of him, on which
to rest his feet, which he had comfortably encased in his slippers.

But the shadows in his new room did not please him. He could hardly see
the clock on the mantel.

The Madonna above was completely in the shade.

So he lighted the chandelier above and sat down again, hoping that no friend,
either of his own or of Mr. Bangs, would interrupt him. The desk
was open at his feet.

The package of letters lay near him on the table. He placed his hand
upon them, but let it rest there.

The hour had
not quite arrived when he would read them. He fell again into the reveries
of the day. He lingered over the thoughts of his better life ere
he opened the packet which told of its end.

For the last ten years he had labored without ambition, and had been
successful. His name was well known as a journalist, and his salary was
ample.

Before that time he had striven ambitiously, but fruitlessly, patiently,
but as in a quicksand, until, on a day, he had none to strive for but
himself, and then success had come.

Since noon, seven hours and twenty-nine minutes, said the clock before him. His
anniversary was near. Mr. Bixby drew the letters near him, and untied
the package.

Just then there came a knock at his door, and, before he had determined
whether or not he should say, "Come in," the door opened, and an
elderly gentleman stepped into the apartment.

Quietly he came in. There was no sound attending his entrance except
the knock.

Mr. Bixby, looking up, saw a man of more than ordinary height, with countenance rigid and puritanical
in expression, as though the mind which had formed it was one influenced
more by justice than mercy.

His eyes were concealed by a pair of colored spectacles, but these, as they caught
and reflected the light, were brighter and more startling than any
eyes could have been. He was dressed in a long surtout, which he wore closely buttoned,
high dickey, and high black-silk stock, which covered his throat
to his chin.

His iron-gray hair was brushed somewhat pompously backward over his
forehead, and his whole effect was that of a gentleman of the generation
which wore bell-crowned hats and carried enormous canes with tassels.
But what attracted Mr. Bixby's particular attention were the wrinkles
of his face.

These were in all places
where wrinkles should not be. One ran straight through the centre of
his forehead, continuing the line of the nose upward to the hair. Two others,
starting from the bridge of the nose, ran diagonally down to the nostrils.
He was close-shaven, and his lips were straight and thin. These peculiarities
of his visitor Mr. Bixby had barely time to mark when the gentleman said:

"Ah, Mr. Bangs, I am glad to find you in!"

Mr. Bixby never in his life more desired to be alone, and yet there
was something in this old man which so attracted him that he could
not correct his mistake.

He felt a
sudden fascination and desire to know more of him. Bangs was away
and could not be seen.

The gentleman could not
be very well acquainted with Bangs, very probably never had seen him,
or he would not have made such an error.

But nothing but the influence which seemed to proceed
from his visitor could have induced Mr. Bixby to answer as he did.

"Thank you, sir. Pray, take this chair."

As he said this, he arose and wheeled an easy-chair to the other side of the
table.

The elderly gentleman sat down.

"You have a very cheerful apartment here, Mr. Bangs."

"Yes. I always like to be comfortable."

"Of course," said the elderly gentleman.

"Will you remove your overcoat, sir?" asked Mr. Bixby, and immediately
repented it.

"Oh, no, I shall stop but a moment."

There was an interval of silence.

A block of coal broke open in the grate and fell
apart. A jet of gas burst forth and burned, then sputtered and went
out.

Mr.
Bixby wondered on what business he had come, and why he did not open the subject
at once, if he was only intending to stop a moment.

"It is very disagreeable weather out,"
said the man with the pompous forelock, interrupting his reflections.

"Snowing?"
asked Bixby.

"No--sleet."

"Very unpleasant to have far to go such a night," suggested Bixby, who
could think of nothing better to say.

"Not at all," responded the old gentleman, authoritatively.

Bixby was silent again.

The old gentleman, leaning with his elbow on the table, began again.

"You like to live well, Mr. Bangs?"

"I try to," answered Mr. Bixby.

"Yes."

"This must be some relative of Bangs come to deliver him a lecture
on his course of life.

Why don't he broach his advice at once?" thought Mr. Bixby.

The visitor here pulled a glove from his right hand, ran his fingers
through his hair, and then, in a more business-like tone, spoke again:

"Although
a stranger to you personally, Mr. Bangs, I have always taken a great
interest in your family.

Mr. Bangs, I knew your father."

"Indeed!

I never heard him speak--"

"No, I dare say; it was near the end of his life.

I was near
by, and rendered him some assistance, when he died suddenly of apoplexy.

He was not so much of a man as your grandfather."

"Was he not?" asked
Mr. Bixby, musingly. He was thinking how old the grandfather of his
friend Bangs must have been.

"No," continued the elderly gentleman;
"but even his judgment I never considered equal to that of your great-grandfather."

"Here
is, indeed, a friend--a friend of the family. Why is Mr. Bangs away?"
thought Mr. Bixby, and he bent his head a little, and looked under
the drop-light, to get a view of his visitor. He saw only the reflection
on his spectacles, and drew back suddenly, for fear of being detected.

"You
like a good song, I have heard, Mr. Bangs," came from the other side
of the table. "Have you any favorite?"

Mr. Bixby did not understand
this at all. The question puzzled him. Should he as Bangs fall in
the estimation of some relative if he admitted the fact? Or did his
visitor intend to sing? However, he felt compelled to be frank, so
he said:

"Oh, yes; I like a good song. Some of the Scotch ballads
please me most. There is 'The Land o' the Leal.'"

"A very fine song,
sir. A very fine song. It is a credit to any man to like that song."

The
old gentleman was excited. Mr. Bixby was just congratulating himself
on having given Bangs a lift, when his thoughts were turned into an
altogether new channel by the following remark:

"It was my impression,
however, that your taste ran rather in the way of drinking-songs.
I should have thought now you would have said, 'The Coal-Black Wine.'"

There
was something in the tone with which this was uttered that made Mr.
Bixby shudder. It ran through his mind that this man was some enemy
of Bangs--that he was dangerous. Startled by this sudden suspicion,
tremblingly he again peered under the shade. The wrinkle in the line
of the frontal suture was more deeply indented. The light on the spectacles
was brighter than ever.

"Mr. Bangs, I called on your opposite neighbor,
Mr. Bixby, to-night. I knocked on the door, but he was away."

"Yes,"
said Mr. Bixby, somewhat confused. He wished that Bangs had stayed
at home, and determined to end the interview as soon as possible.

"Yes.
I am sorry. I had a positive appointment with him. I am a great friend
of his."

"Does he know you?"

"Oh, no; we have never met personally
that he remembers. I am an old friend of the family.

"You're doing something that you think not right."

It so touched the place that he quite changed colour and his laugh grew almost awkward.  "Am
I enjoying it as much as THAT?"

"You're not enjoying it, I think, so much as you ought."

"I see"--he appeared thoughtfully to agree.  "Great is my privilege."

"Oh it's not your privilege!  It has nothing to do with me.  It has to do with yourself.  Your
failure's general."

"Ah there you are!" he laughed.  "It's the failure of Woollett. THAT'S general."

"The failure to enjoy," Miss Gostrey explained, "is what I mean."

"Precisely.  Woollett isn't sure it ought to enjoy.  If it were it would.  But it hasn't, poor
thing," Strether continued, "any one to show it how.  It's not like me.  I have somebody."

They had stopped, in the afternoon sunshine--constantly pausing, in their stroll, for the sharper
sense of what they saw--and Strether rested on one of the high sides of the old stony groove
of the little rampart.  He leaned back on this support with his face to the tower of the cathedral,
now admirably commanded by their station, the high red-brown mass, square and subordinately
spired and crocketed, retouched and restored, but charming to his long-sealed eyes and with
the first swallows of the year weaving their flight all round it.  Miss Gostrey lingered near
him, full of an air, to which she more and more justified her right, of understanding the effect
of things.  She quite concurred.  "You've indeed somebody." And she added:  "I wish you WOULD
let me show you how!"

"Oh I'm afraid of you!" he cheerfully pleaded.

She kept on him a moment, through her glasses and through his own, a certain pleasant pointedness.
"Ah no, you're not! You're not in the least, thank goodness!  If you had been we shouldn't
so soon have found ourselves here together.  I think," she comfortably concluded, "you trust me."

"I think I do!--but that's exactly what I'm afraid of.  I shouldn't mind if I didn't.  It's
falling thus in twenty minutes so utterly into your hands.  I dare say," Strether continued,
"it's a sort of thing you're thoroughly familiar with; but nothing more extraordinary has ever
happened to me."

She watched him with all her kindness.  "That means simply that you've recognised me--which
IS rather beautiful and rare.  You see what I am." As on this, however, he protested, with
a good-humoured headshake, a resignation of any such claim, she had a moment of explanation.
"If you'll only come on further as you HAVE come you'll at any rate make out.  My own fate
has been too many for me, and I've succumbed to it. I'm a general guide--to 'Europe,' don't
you know?  I wait for people--I put them through.  I pick them up--I set them down.  I'm a
sort of superior 'courier-maid.' I'm a companion at large.  I take people, as I've told you,
about.  I never sought it--it has come to me.  It has been my fate, and one's fate one accepts.
It's a dreadful thing to have to say, in so wicked a world, but I verily believe that, such
as you see me, there's nothing I don't know.  I know all the shops and the prices--but I know
worse things still.  I bear on my back the huge load of our national consciousness, or, in
other words--for it comes to that--of our nation itself.  Of what is our nation composed but
of the men and women individually on my shoulders?  I don't do it, you know, for any particular
advantage.  I don't do it, for instance--some people do, you know--for money."

Strether could only listen and wonder and weigh his chance.  "And yet, affected as you are
then to so many of your clients, you can scarcely be said to do it for love."  He waited a
moment.  "How do we reward you?"

She had her own hesitation, but "You don't!" she finally returned, setting him again in motion.
They went on, but in a few minutes, though while still thinking over what she had said, he
once more took out his watch; mechanically, unconsciously and as if made nervous by the mere
exhilaration of what struck him as her strange and cynical wit.  He looked at the hour without
seeing it, and then, on something again said by his companion, had another pause. To strengthen his cause
he made alliances at different times with the Muwallads in Elvira, Seville,
and Saragoza, and with the successful rebel, Abdurrahman ibn Merwan,
in Badajos.

[1] Dozy, ii. 190.

[2] Al Makkari, ii. 437. De Gayangos' note.

[3] In 880 or 881.

[4] See a description of him quoted by Stanley Lane-Poole ("Moors
in Spain," p. 107) from an Arab writer: "Woe unto thee, Cordova! when
the captain with the great nose and ugly face--he who is guarded before
by Moslems, and behind by idolaters--when Ibn Hafsun comes before
thy gates.

Then will thine awful fate be accomplished."

Openly defying the Sultan's forces, he was only kept in check by Almundhir,
the king's son, who succeeded his father in 886.

Omar was further strengthened by the accession to his side of Sherbil, the Count of Cordova.[1] The death
of Almundhir in 888 removed from Omar's path his only able enemy,
and, during Abdallah's weak reign, the rebel leader was virtual king
of the south and east of Spain.

The district of Regio[2] was made over to him by the king, and Omar's
lieutenant, Ibn Mastarna, was made chief of Priejo.

This protracted war, which was really one for national independence,
was carried on year after year with varying success. At one time Omar conceived
the intention of proclaiming the Abasside Khalifs,[3] at another
he grasped at the royal power himself; and Abdallah's empire was only
saved by a seasonable victory in 891 at Hisn Belay (or Espiel).[4]
The battle was fought on the eve of the Passover, and the Moslems
taunted their enemies with having such a joyful feast, and so many
victims to commemorate it with.

This shows that a large, perhaps the largest, part of Omar's army was Christian. Another indication of
this is found in a poem of Tarikh ibn Habib,[5] where, speaking of
the coming destruction of Cordova, he says: "The safest place will
then be the hill of Abu Abdu, where once stood a church," meaning that
Omar's Christian soldiers would respect that sanctuary, and no other.
Indeed, it is certain that Omar himself became a Christian some time
before this battle,[6] as his father had done before him. He took
the name of Samuel, and his daughter Argentea, as we have seen, suffered
martyrdom. This change of creed on Omar's part changed the character
of the war, and gave it more of a religious,[7] and perhaps less of
a national, character, for the Spanish Moslems fell off from him, when
he became Christian and built churches.

[1] Servandus. Al Makkari, ii. 456. De Gayangos' note.

[2] Where Islam was almost extinct.

Dozy, ii. 335.

[3] Al Makkari, ii. p. 456. De Gayangos' note.

[4] Ibn Hayyan, apud Al Makk., ii. p. 452.

This seems to be the same victory as that which Dozy (ii. 284) calls Polei or Aguilar.

[5] See Dozy, ii. p. 275.

[6] Ibn Hayyan, apud Dozy, ii. p. 326.

[7] In 896, on the capture of Cazlona by a renegade named Ibn as Khalia,
all the Christians were massacred.--Dozy, ii. p. 327.

Towards the close of his reign Abdallah was able to assert his supremacy, though Omar and his followers
still held out. Omar himself did not die till 917, some years after Abdallah's death. The king's successor,
Abdurrahman III., was a different stamp of man from Abdallah, and the reduction of Omar became only a
question of time, though, in fact, the apostasy of Omar from Islam had made the ultimate success
of the national party very doubtful, if not impossible. After Omar's death, his son, Djaffar, thought
to recover the support of the Spanish Moslems by embracing Islam; but he thereby lost the confidence of the
Christians, by whom he was murdered. In 928 his brother Hafs surrendered, with Bobastro, to the
Sultan, and the great rebellion was finally extinguished.

So ended the grand struggle of the national party, first under the-direction
of the Muwallads, and then of the Christians, to shake off the Arab
and Berber yoke.

During the remainder of the tenth century the strong administration of Abdurrahman III., Hakem II.,
and the great Almanzor, gave the Christians no chance of raising the cry of "Spain for the Spanish."
The danger of a renewal of the rebellion once removed, the position of the Christians does not
seem to have been made any worse in consequence of their late disaffection, and Abdurrahman, himself the son
of a Christian mother, treated all parties in the revolt with great leniency, even against the wishes
and advice of the more devout Moslems. Almanzor, too, made himself respected, and even liked,
by his Christian subjects, and there is no doubt that his victories over the Christian States in the North[1]
were won very largely with the aid of Christian soldiers. His death was the signal for the disruption
of the Spanish Khalifate, and from 1010-1031, when the khalifate
was finally extinguished, complete anarchy prevailed in Saracen Spain.

The Berbers made a determined effort to regain their ascendency,
and their forces, seconded by the Christians, succeeded in placing
Suleiman on the throne in 1013.

A succession of feeble rulers, set up by the different factions--Arab,
Berber, and Slave--followed, until Hischem III. was forced to abdicate
in 1031, and the Umeyyade dynasty came to an end, after lasting 275
years.

By this time the Christians in the North had gathered themselves
together for a combined advance against the Saracen provinces, never
again to retrograde, scarcely even to be checked, till in 1492 fell
Granada, the last stronghold of the Moors in Spain.[2]

[1] Al Makkari,
ii. p. 214.

[2] In 1630 there was not a single Moslem left in Spain.--Al Makk., i. p. 74.

CHAPTER IX.

CHRISTIANS AND MOSLEMS IGNORANT OF ONE ANOTHER'S CREED.

In spite of the close contact into which the Christians and Mohammedans were brought in Spain, and
the numerous conversions and frequent intermarriages between the two sections, no thorough knowledge
seems to have existed, on either side, of the creed of the other party. Such, at least, is the conclusion
to which we are driven, on reading the only direct records which remain on the subject among Arab and
Christian writers. These on the Christian side consist chiefly of quotations from a book on Mohammedanism
by the abbot Speraindeo in a work of his disciple, Eulogius;[1] and some rather incoherent denunciations of
Mohammed and his religion by Alvar,[2] another pupil of the abbot's. In these, as might be expected, great
stress is laid on the sensuality of Mohammed's paradise,[3] and the lewdness of the Prophet
himself. As to the latter, though many of Gibbon's coarse sarcasms
do not rest on good authority, very little can be said for the Prophet.

But among other blasphemies attributed by Speraindeo to Mohammed is
one of which we find no mention in the Koran--the assertion, namely,
that he would in the next world be wedded to the Virgin Mary.

John, Bishop of Seville, is equally incorrect when, in a letter to
Alvar,[4] he alleges a promise on the part of Mohammed that he would,
like Christ, rise again from the dead; whereas his body, being neglected
by his relations, was devoured by dogs.

The Christian bishop does not hesitate to add--sepultus est in infernum--he was buried
in hell.[5]

[1] Eul., "Mem. Sanct.," i. sec. 7.

[2] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," secs.

21-35.

[3] Ibid., secs. 23, 24. Mohammed's paradise was by no means wholly sensual.--Sale's
Koran. Introd., p. 78.

[4] Sec 9.

[5] This shows the hatred of Christians for Mohammed, whom, says Eulogius ("Mem. Sanct.," i. sec.
20), it would be every Christian's duty to kill, were he alive on earth.

It is generally supposed that Mohammed could neither read nor write, and this appears to have been
the opinion of Alvar;[1] but the same witness acknowledges that the
Koran was composed in such eloquent and beautiful language that even
Christians could not help reading and admiring it.[2]

On the important
question of Mohammed's position with regard to Christianity, Eulogius[3]
at least formed a correct judgment.

Mohammed, he tells us "blasphemously taught that Christ was the Word
of God,[4] and His Spirit;[5] a great prophet,[6] endowed with much
power from God;[7] like Adam in His creation,[8] but not equal to
God (the Creator);[9] and that by reason of His blameless[10] life,
being filled with the Holy Spirit,[11] He showed marvellous signs
and wonders through the power of God,[12] not working by His own Godhead,
but as a righteous Man, and an obedient servant,[13] obtaining much
power and might from the Almighty God through prayer."

[1] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," sec.

26.

[2] Ibid., sec. 29.

This is more than can be said at the present day.

[3] Eul., "Lib.

Apol.," sec. 19.

[4] Koran, ch. iii. 40.

[5] Koran, ch. ii. 81, "strengthened with Holy Spirit."

[6] Kor., c. iii. 59.

[7] Kor., c. iii. 45.

[8] Kor., c. iii. 50.

[9] Kor., c. ix. 33.

[10] Kor., c. iii.

[11] This is a mistake of Eulogius. See Sale's note on Koran, ch. ii.
81, note.

[12] Kor., ch. v. 110 ff.

[13] Koran, cc. iv. ad fin; xliii. 59.

Alvar is much more unfair to Mohammed than his friend Eulogius, and he even
seems to have had a prejudiced idea[1] that the Prophet set himself
deliberately to preach doctrines the opposite of those taught by Christ.
It would be nearer to the truth to say that the divergence between
the two codes of morals was due to the natural ignorance of an illiterate
Arabian, brought into contact only with an heretical form of Christianity,
the real doctrines of which he was therefore not likely to know.

According to Alvar, the sixth day of the week was chosen for the Mohammedan
holy day, because Christ suffered on that day.

We shall realise the absurdity of this when we consider the reverence in which
Mohammed held the very name of Christ, going so far even as to deny
that Christ Himself was crucified at all.[2] The true reason for selecting
Friday, as alleged by Mohammed himself, was, because the work of
creation ended on that day.[3]

Again, sensuality was preached, says
Alvar, because Christ preached chastity.

But Mohammed cannot fairly be said to have preached sensuality, though his private life in this respect was
by no means pure.

Gluttony was advocated instead of fasting. A more baseless charge was never made; for how can it
be contended that Christianity enjoins fasting, while Islam disapproves of it, in the face of
such texts as Matthew ix. The month of Ramadan shall ye fast." But
Alvar goes on to make a more astonishing statement still:--"Christ
ordained that men should abstain from their wives during a fast, while
Mohammed consecrated those days to carnal pleasure."

Christ surely gives us no such injunction, though St Paul does say something
of the kind.

The Koran[6] explicitly
says--"It is lawful for you on the night of the fast to go in unto your
wives; they are a garment unto you, and you are a garment unto them."
We even find an incident recorded by an Arabian writer, where Yahya
ibn Yahya, the famous faqui, imposed a penance of a month's extra fast
on Abdurrahman II. (822-852) for violating the Prophet's ordinance, that
wives should be abstained from during the fasting month.[7] Alvar, being
a layman, may perhaps be supposed not to have studied Mohammedanism
critically, and that his zeal was not according to knowledge is perhaps
the best explanation of the matter.

In one place[8] he informs us of his intention of writing a book
on the Cobar,[9] but the work, if ever written, has not survived.

Nor is this much to be regretted, if we may judge by the wild remarks
he indulges in elsewhere[10] on this theme.

In that passage he seems to apply the obscure prophecy of Daniel[11]
to Mohammed, forgetting that verse 37 speaks of one who "shall regard
not the desire of women," a description hardly characteristic of Mohammed.

He identifies the God Maozim (Hebr.

Mauzim), which our revised version (v. 38) translates the "God of
fortresses" with the Mohammedan Cobar;[12] and the strange god, whom
he shall acknowledge, Alvar identifies with the devil which inspired
the Prophet in the guise of the angel Gabriel.

All this, as the writer himself allows, is very enigmatical.

[1] See Dozy, ii. 107.

[2] See Koran, cc. iii.

47;
iv. 157; and Sale's notes.

[3] See Sale's note on Koran, c. lxii.

9.

[4] Cf. also Matt. xi.

[5] Chapter ii. 180.

[6] Chapter ii. 185. The Mohammedan fast is confined to the day time.

[7]
From Ibn Khallekan, apud Dozy, ii.

108.

[8] "Ind. Lum.," sec. 25.

[9] I.e., the Caaba apparently.

[10] "Ind. Lum.," sec.

25, ff.

[11] C. xi. vv. 21, ff.

[12] ? Caaba.

Alvar does not scruple even to accuse the Moslems of idolatry, asserting
that the Arabian tribes worship their idol (the Caaba black stone[1])
as they used to do of yore, and that they set apart a holy month,
Al Mozem, in honour of this idol.[2]

Finally, Mohammed is spoken
of variously as the precursor of Antichrist,[3] or as Antichrist himself.[4]

Let
us now see how far we can gather the opinions of educated Moslems
with regard to Christian doctrine and worship.

If we find these to be no less one-sided and erroneous than the opinions
of Christians as to Mohammedanism, yet can we the more easily excuse
the Moslems, for the Koran itself, the very foundation and guide of
all their religious dogmas, is full of incorrect and inconsistent
notions on the subject.

The most important of these mistakes was that the Christians worshipped
a Trinity of Deities--God, Christ, Mary.[5] The inclusion of the Virgin
Mary into this Trinity was perhaps due to the fact that worship was
paid to her even at that early date, as it certainly is among the
Roman Catholics at this day.

As will have been seen from a passage quoted above,[6] something
very like adoration was already paid to the Virgin in the churches
of Spain.

[1] Sale, Introduction to Koran, p. 91.

[2] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," sec. 25.

[3] Ibid., sec. 21.

[4] Ibid., sec. 53.

[6] P. 56.

But the following extract from a treatise on Religions, by Ali ibn
Hazm,[1] the prime minister of Abdurrahman V. (Dec. 1023-March 1024),
will show that some educated Moslems knew enough of the Christian
creed to appreciate its difficulties:--"We need not be astonished,"
says Ibn Hazm, "at the superstition of men.

Look
at the Christians! They are so numerous that God only knows their numbers.
They have among them men of great intelligence, and princes of great
ability. Nevertheless they believe that three is one, and one is three;
that one of the three is the Father, another the Son, another the
Spirit; that the Father is, and is not, the Son; that a man is, and
is not, God; that the Messiah is God in every respect, and yet not
the same as God; that He who has existed from all eternity has been
created.

"One of their sects, the members of which they call Jacobites, and
which number hundreds of thousands, believes even that the Creator Himself
was scourged, crucified, and put to death; so that the Universe for
three days was deprived of its Governor."

Another extract from an Arabic writer will show us what the Moslems
thought of the worship of St James, the patron saint of Spain, round
whose shrine rallied the religious revival in the north of the Peninsula.
It is Ibn Hayyan,[2] who, in his account of Almanzor's fiftieth expedition
against the Christians, says:--"Shant Yakoh (Santiago)[3] is one of
the sanctuaries most frequented, not only by the Christians of Andalus,
but of the neighbouring continent, who look upon its church with a
veneration such as Moslems entertain for the Caaba of Mecca; for their
Caaba is a colossal idol (statue) which stands in the middle of the
church. They swear by it, and repair to it in pilgrimage from the
most distant parts, from Rome, as well as other countries beyond Rome,
pretending that the tomb to be seen in the church is that of Yakob (James),
one of the twelve apostles, and the most beloved by Isa (Jesus).--May
the blessing of God be on him, and on our Prophet!--The Christians call
this Yakob the brother of Jesus, because, while he lived, he was always
with him. They say that he was Bishop of Jerusalem, and that he wandered
over the earth preaching the religion [of Christ], and calling upon
the inhabitants to embrace it, till he came to that remote corner
of Andalus; that he then returned to Syria, where he died at the age
of 120 solar years.

They pretend likewise that, after the death of
Yakob, his disciples carried his body and buried it in that church,
as the most remote part, where he had left traces [of his preaching]."

[1]

II. 227, apud Dozy, iii.

342. Ibn Hazm was, says
Dozy, "a strict Moslem, averse to judging divine questions by human
reasoning."

[2] Al Makkari, ii. 293.

[3] Miss Yonge, p. 87, says the Arabs called him Sham Yakub, but what
authority has this statement?

In a country where literature and the arts were so keenly cultivated,
as they were in Spain during the time of Arab domination, and where
the rivalry of Christian, Jew, and Moslem produced a sustained period
of intellectual activity such as the world has rarely seen, controversial
theology could not fail to have been largely developed.

But the books, if any were
written, from the Christian or Moslem standpoint, have all perished,
and we have only such slight and unsatisfactory notices left to us as
those already quoted.

In estimating, therefore, what influences the rival religions of Spain
had upon each other, we are driven to draw such inferences as we can
from the meagre hints furnished to us by the writers of the period;
from our knowledge of what Christianity was in Spain, and Mohammedanism
in Africa, before they were brought into contact in Andalusia, compared
with what they became after that contact had made itself felt; and from
the observed effects of such relations elsewhere. Upon a careful consideration
of these scattered hints we shall see that certain effects were visible,
which, had the amalgamation of the two peoples been allowed to continue
uninterruptedly for a longer period, and had there been no disturbing
element in the north of Spain and in Africa, would in all probability
have led to some marked modification in one or both religions, and
even to their nearer assimilation.

CHAPTER
IX.

HERESIES IN SPAIN.

Such mixtures of religions are by no means without example in history. The
Sabians, for instance, were the followers of a religion, which may have
been a cross between Judaism, Christianity, and Magianism.[1] But
Mohammedanism itself has furnished the most marked instances of such
amalgamation.

In
Persia Islam combined with the creed of Zoroaster to produce Babyism; while
in India Hinduism and Mohammedanism, fused together by the genius of
Nanak Guru, have resulted in Sikhism.

It may be said that Mohammedanism has been able to unite with Zoroastrianism
and Hinduism owing to their very dissimilarity with itself, whereas Christianity
is too near akin to Islam to combine with it in such a way as to produce
a religion like both, and yet different from either.[2] Christianity
and Mohammedanism, each have two cardinal doctrines (and two only)
which cannot be abrogated if they are to remain distinctive creeds.
In one of these, the unity of God, they agree. In the other they do,
and always must, differ. The divinity of Christ on the one side, and the
divine mission of Mohammed on the other, are totally incompatible doctrines.
If the one is true, the other cannot be so. Surrender both, and the
result is Judaism. No compromise would seem possible. Yet a compromise
was attempted, if we can credit a statement attributed by Dozy to
Ibn Khaldun,[3] in recounting the history of the successful rebel,
Abdurrahman ibn Merwan ibn Yunas, who during the last quarter of the ninth
century, while all Moslem Spain was a prey to the wildest anarchy,
became a leader of the renegade or Muwallad party in Merida and the
neighbourhood. Thinking to unite the Muwallads and Christians in
one revolt, he preached to his countrymen a new religion, which held a place
halfway between Christianity and Islam. This is all we are told of an
endeavour, which might have led to the most important consequences.

That we
hear no more of it is evidence enough that the attempt proved abortive.
The only other attempt, if it can be called so, to combine Islam and Christianity
has resulted in that curious compound called the religion of the
Druses.

[1] For an attempted compromise between Christianity and Brahmanism,
see the proceedings of Beschi, a Roman Catholic priest, "Education
and Missions," p. 14.

[2]
Cp., however, the Druse religion.

[3] Dozy, ii. 184. Dozy adds that Abdurrahman was called the Galician (el
Jaliki) in consequence of this attempt of his: but there is some
error here, as Ibn Hayyan (see Al Makkari, ii.

439, and De Gayangos' note) says he was called ibn ul'jaliki,
i.e., of the stock of the Galicians.
But though no religion, holding a position midway between Islam and
Christianity, arose in Spain, yet those religions could hardly fail
to undergo considerable modifications in themselves by reason of their
close contact for several centuries.

In respect to Christianity we
shall naturally find the traces (if any) of such modification in the
so-called heresies which may have arisen in Spain during this period.  "Is she
really after you?  Is that what's behind?"

Strether felt an uneasiness at the direction taken by his companion's insight, but he played
a little at uncertainty.  "Behind my coming out?"

"Behind your prostration or whatever.  It's generally felt, you know, that she follows you
up pretty close."

Strether's candour was never very far off.  "Oh it has occurred to you that I'm literally running
away from Mrs. Newsome?"

"Well, I haven't KNOWN but what you are.  You're a very attractive man, Strether.  You've seen
for yourself," said Waymarsh "what that lady downstairs makes of it.  Unless indeed," he rambled
on with an effect between the ironic and the anxious, "it's you who are after HER.  IS Mrs.
Newsome OVER here?"  He spoke as with a droll dread of her.

It made his friend--though rather dimly--smile.  "Dear no she's safe, thank goodness--as I
think I more and more feel--at home.  She thought of coming, but she gave it up.  I've come
in a manner instead of her; and come to that extent--for you're right in your inference--on
her business.  So you see there IS plenty of connexion."

Waymarsh continued to see at least all there was.  "Involving accordingly the particular one
I've referred to?"

Strether took another turn about the room, giving a twitch to his companion's blanket and finally
gaining the door.  His feeling was that of a nurse who had earned personal rest by having made
everything straight.  "Involving more things than I can think of breaking ground on now.  But
don't be afraid--you shall have them from me:  you'll probably find yourself having quite as
much of them as you can do with. These provisions, whatever the opinion entertained as to the wisdom of such
laws, are well within the principle laid down by the Fifteenth Amendment.
But several Southern States have gone a step further, and by means of the
so-called 'grandfather laws,' have exempted certain ignorant white men
from the necessity of meeting the educational and property tests. These unfair 'grandfather
laws,' however, in some of the states adopting them, have now expired
by limitation.

Let me then lay down this general proposition:--

Nowhere in the South to-day is the Negro cut off LEGALLY, as a Negro,
from the ballot.

Legally, to-day, any Negro who can meet the comparatively slight requirements as to education, or
property, or both, can cast his ballot on a basis of equality with the white
man. I have emphasized the word legally, for I know the PRACTICAL
difficulties which confront the Negro votes in many parts of the South.
The point I wish to make is that legally the Negro is essentially
the political equal of the white man; but that practically, in the
enforcement of the law, the legislative ideal is still pegged out
far beyond the actual performance.

Now, then, if we are interested in the problem of democracy, we have two courses
open to us. We may think the laws are unjust to the Negro, and incidentally
to the 'poor white' man as well. If we do, we have a perfect right to agitate
for changes; and we can do much to disclose, without heat, the actual
facts regarding the complicated and vexatious legislative situation
in the South, as regards the suffrage.

Every change in the legislation upon this subject should, indeed, be
jealously watched, that the principle of political equality between
the races be not legally curtailed.

The doctrine laid down in the Fifteenth Amendment must, at any hazard, be maintained.

But, personally,--and I am here voicing a profound conviction,--I
think our emphasis at present should be laid upon the practical
rather than upon the legal aspect of the problem; I think we should take
advantage of the widely prevalent feeling in the South that the question
of suffrage has been settled, legally, for some time to come: of
the desire on the part of many Southern people, both white and colored,
to turn aside from the discussion of the political status of the Negro.

In

short, let us for the time being accept the laws as they are, and build
upward from that point. Let us turn our attention to the practical task of finding
out why it is that the laws we already have are not enforced, and how best to
secure an honest vote for every Negro and equally for every 'poor
white' man, who is able to meet the requirements, but who for one reason
or another does not or cannot now exercise his rights.

I include the disfranchised white man as well as the Negro, because
I take it that we are interested, first of all, in democracy, and unless
we can arouse the spirit of democracy, South and North, we can hope
for justice neither for Negroes, nor for the poorer class of white men,
nor for the women of the factories and shops, nor for the children of
the cottonmills.

Taking up this side of the problem we shall discover two entirely distinct
difficulties:--
First, we shall find many Negroes, and indeed hundreds of thousands
of white men as well, who might vote, but who, through ignorance,
or inability or unwillingness to pay the poll-taxes, or from mere
lack of interest, disfranchise themselves.

The ordered English garden, in the freshness of the day,  was delightful to Strether, who liked
the sound, under his feet, of the tight fine gravel, packed with the chronic damp, and who
had the idlest eye for the deep smoothness of turf and the clean curves of paths. "Other people?"

"Other countries.  Other people--yes.  I want to encourage our own."

Strether wondered.  "Not to come?  Why then do you 'meet'  them--since it doesn't appear to
be to stop them?"

"Oh that they shouldn't come is as yet too much to ask.  What I attend to is that they come
quickly and return still more so.  I meet them to help it to be over as soon as possible, 
and though I don't stop them I've my way of putting them through.  That's my little system;
and, if you want to know,"  said Maria Gostrey, "it's my real secret, my innermost mission
and use.  I only seem, you see, to beguile and approve; but I've thought it all out and I'm
working all the while underground.  I can't perhaps quite give you my formula, but I think
that practically I succeed.  I send you back spent.  So you stay back. Passed through my hands--"

"We don't turn up again?" The Germans had set fire to it by hand in the night; they had been dislodged
from it after two nights of fierce fighting: their action may be
interpreted as an intention to retreat at this point.

This proceeding, generally detested by our soldiers, is, I think, forced by strategic necessity. When
a village is destroyed it is very difficult for us in the rear to
make any kind of use of it. All day we have been witnessing this devastation,
while above our heads the little field-mice are taking advantage
of the straw in which we are to sleep.

Our existence, as infantry, is a little like that of rabbits in the shooting season. The more knowing of us,
at any rate, are perpetually on the look-out for a hole.

As soon as we are buried in it, we are ordered
not to move again. These wise orders are unfortunately not always
given with discrimination; thus, yesterday there were four of us
in an advance-trench situated in a magnificent spot and perfectly
hidden beneath leaves.

We
should have been able to delight in the landscape but for the good
corporal, who was afraid to allow us even a little enjoyment of life.

Later
the artillery came up with a tremendous din and showed us the use of these superlative
precautions.

None the less, I
have been able to enjoy the landscape--alas! a scene of smoke and tragedy
yesterday.

Be sure, beloved mother, that I do not wish to commit a single imprudence,
but certainly this war is the triumph of Fate, of Providence and
Destiny.

I pray
ardently to deserve the grace of return, but apart from a few moments
of only human impatience, I can say that the greater part of my being
is given up to resignation.

November 10, 11 o'clock.

MY VERY DEAR
MOTHER,--What shall I say to you to-day--a day monotonous with fog.  It became, on her taking the
risk of the deviation imposed on him by her insidious arrangement of his morning meal, a point
of honour for her not to fail with Waymarsh of the larger success too; and her subsequent boast
to Strether was that she had made their friend fare--and quite without his knowing what was
the matter--as Major Pendennis would have fared at the Megatherium. She had made him breakfast
like a gentleman, and it was nothing, she forcibly asserted, to what she would yet make him
do.  She made him participate in the slow reiterated ramble with which, for Strether, the new
day amply filled itself; and it was by her art that he somehow had the air, on the ramparts
and in the Rows, of carrying a point of his own.

The three strolled and stared and gossiped, or at least the two did; the case really yielding
for their comrade, if analysed, but the element of stricken silence.  This element indeed affected
Strether as charged with audible rumblings, but he was conscious of the care of taking it explicitly
as a sign of pleasant peace.  He wouldn't appeal too much, for that provoked stiffness; yet
he wouldn't be too freely tacit, for that suggested giving up. Waymarsh himself adhered to
an ambiguous dumbness that might have represented either the growth of a perception or the
despair of one; and at times and in places--where the low-browed galleries were darkest, the
opposite gables queerest, the solicitations of every kind densest--the others caught him fixing
hard some object of minor interest, fixing even at moments nothing discernible, as if he were
indulging it with a truce.  When he met Strether's eye on such occasions he looked guilty and
furtive, fell the next minute into some attitude of retractation.  Our friend couldn't show
him the right things for fear of provoking some total renouncement, and was tempted even to
show him the wrong in order to make him differ with triumph.  There were moments when he himself
felt shy of professing the full sweetness of the taste of leisure, and there were others when
he found himself feeling as if his passages of interchange with the lady at his side might
fall upon the third member of their party very much as Mr. Burchell, at Dr. Primrose's fireside,
was influenced by the high flights of the visitors from London.  The smallest things so arrested
and amused him that he repeatedly almost apologised--brought up afresh in explanation his plea
of a previous grind.  He was aware at the same time that his grind had been as nothing to Waymarsh's,
and he repeatedly confessed that, to cover his frivolity, he was doing his best for his previous
virtue.  Do what he might, in any case, his previous virtue was still there, and it seemed
fairly to stare at him out of the windows of shops that were not as the shops of Woollett,
fairly to make him want things that he shouldn't know what to do with.  It was by the oddest,
the least admissible of laws demoralising him now; and the way it boldly took was to make him
want more wants. These first walks in Europe were in fact a kind of finely lurid intimation
of what one might find at the end of that process.  Had he come back after long years, in something
already so like the evening of life, only to be exposed to it?  It was at all events over the
shop-windows that he made, with Waymarsh, most free; though it would have been easier had not
the latter most sensibly yielded to the appeal of the merely useful trades. For any one who demands
plot there is one--of such gigantic dimensions, indeed, that it is not easy to grasp it, but
seen to be singularly well articulated and put together when it is once grasped. Huge as it is,
it is not in the least formless, and, as has been several times pointed
out, hardly the most (as it may at first appear) wanton and unpardonable
episode, digression, or inset lacks its due connection with and "orientation"
towards the end.

The
contrast of this with the more or less formless chronicle-fashion, the "overthwart and endlong" conduct,
of almost all the romances from the Carlovingian and Arthurian[193] to the Amadis type, is of the
most unmistakable kind.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any real live sense,
is terribly wanting still; though description is a little general and wants
more "streaks in the tulip"; and though conversation is formal and
stilted, there is evident, perhaps even in the first, certainly in the
second and third cases, an effort to treat them at any rate systematically,
in accordance with some principles of art, and perhaps even not without
some eye to the actual habits, manners, demands of the time--things
which again were quite new in prose fiction, and, in fact, could
hardly be said to be anywhere present in literature outside of drama.

To set against these not so very small merits in the present, and very considerable
seeds of promise for the future, there are, of course, serious faults
or defects--defaults which need, however, less insistence, because
they are much more generally known, much more obvious, and have been
already admitted.

The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt with at all. It has already been said that the
most interesting point about it is the opportunity of discovering how it was, in part, a regular, and, in fact, almost
the furthest possible, development of a characteristic which had been more or less observable
throughout the progress of romance. But it may be added that the law of supply and demand helped;
for people evidently were not in the least bored by bulk, and that the fancy for having a book "on hand"
has only lately, if it has actually, died out.[194] Now such a "book on hand" as the Grand Cyrus exists,
as far as my knowledge goes, in no Western literature, unless you
count collections of letters, which is not fair, or such memoirs as
Saint-Simon's, which do not appeal to quite the same class of readers.

A

far more serious default or defect--not exactly blameworthy, because the time was not yet, but certainly to
be taken account of--is the almost utter want of character just referred
to.

From Cyrus and Mandane downwards the people have qualities; but qualities, though they are necessary
to character, do not constitute it. Very faint approaches may be discerned, by very benevolent
criticism, in such a personage as Martésie with her shrewdness, her
maid-of-honour familiarity with the ways and manners of courtly human
beings, and that very pardonable, indeed agreeable, tendency, which
has been noticed or imagined, to flirt in respectful fashion with
Cyrus, while carrying on more regular business with Feraulas.

But it is little more than a suggestion, and it has been frankly admitted that it is perhaps not
even that, but an imagination merely. And the same observation may apply to her "second string,"
Doralise. No others of the women have any character at all, and we
have already spoken of the men.

Now these things, in a book very widely read and immensely admired,
could not, and did not, fail to have their effect.

Nobody--we shall see this more in detail in the next chapter--can fail to perceive that the Princesse de
Clèves itself is, from one point of view, only a histoire of the Grand Cyrus, taken out of its preposterous matrix
of other matter, polished, charged with a great addition of internal fire of character and passion,
and left to take its chance alone and unencumbered. Nobody, on the other hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle
de Scudéry can doubt the influence of the French book--a century old as it was--on the "father of
the English novel." Now any influence exerted on these two was, beyond controversy, an influence exerted
on the whole future course of the kind, and it is as exercising such an
influence that we have given to the Great Cyrus so great a space.

* * * * *

[Sidenote: The other Scudéry romances--Ibrahim.]

After the
exhaustive account given of Artamène, it is probably not necessary
to apologise for dealing with the rest of Mlle. de Scudéry's novel
work, and with that of her comrades in the Heroic romance, at no
very great length.

Ibrahim ou L'Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented as showing
more endeavour, if not exactly at "local colour," at technical accuracy,
than the rest. It is true that the French were, at this time, rather
amusingly proud of being the only Western nation treated on something
like equal terms by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys (possibly
Georges, whose work the Dedication to Mlle. de Rohan, daughter of
the famous soldier, pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains
to acquire knowledge.

"Sandjak" (or "Sanjiac"), not for a district but for its governor, is a little
unlucky perhaps; but "Aderbion" is much nearer "Azerbaijan" than one
generally expects in such cases from French writers of the seventeenth
or even of other centuries.

The Oriental character of the story, however, is but partial. The Illustrious
Pasha himself, though First Vizir and "victorious" general of Soliman the
Second, is not a Turk at all, but a "Justinian" or Giustiniani of Genoa,
whose beloved Isabelle is a Princess of Monaco, and who at the end, after
necessary dangers,[195] retires with her to that Principality, with a
punctilious explanation from the author about the Grimaldis. The scene
is partly there and at Genoa--the best Genoese families, including
the Dorias, appearing--partly at Constantinople: and the business
at the latter place is largely concerned with the intrigues, jealousies,
and cruelties of Roxelane, who is drawn much more (one regrets to
say) as history paints her than as the agreeable creature of Marmontel's
subsequent fancy.

The book is a mere cockboat beside the mighty argosy of the Cyrus, running only
to four volumes and some two thousand pages. But though smaller, it is
much "stodgier." The Histoires break out at once with the story of a
certain Alibech--much more proper for the young person than that
connected with the same name by Boccaccio,--and those who have acquired
some knowledge of Mlle.

Madeleine's ways will know what it means when, adopting the improper
but defensible practice of "looking at the end," they find that not
merely "Justinian" and Isabelle, but a Horace and a Hypolite, a Doria
and a Sophronie, an Alphonse and a Léonide are all married on the
same day, while a "French Marquis" and an Emilie vow inviolable but
celibate constancy to each other; they will know, that is to say,
that in the course of the book all these will have been duly "historiated."

To encourage them, a single hint that Léonide sometimes plays a little
of the parts of Martésie and Doralise in the Cyrus may be thrown in.

There is, however, one sentence in the second volume of Ibrahim which
is worth quotation and brief comment, because it is a text for the
whole management and system of these novels, and accounts for much
in their successors almost to the present day.

Emilie is telling the Histoire of Isabelle, and excuses herself for
not beginning at the beginning: "Puisque je sais que vous n'ignorez
pas l'amour du Prince de Masseran, les violences et les artifices de
Julie, la trahison de Féliciane, le généreux ressentiment de Doria
[this is another Doria], la mort de cet amant infortuné, et ensuite
celle de Julie."

In other words, all these things have been the subject of previous
histories or of the main text. And so it is always.

Diderot admired, or at least excused, that procedure of Richardson's
which involved the telling of the conversation of an average dinner-party
in something like a small volume. But the "Heroic" method would have made
it necessary to tell the previous experiences of the lady you took
down to dinner, and the man that you talked to afterwards, while,
if extended from aristocratic to democratic ideas, it would have justified
a few remarks on the cabmen who brought both, and the butcher and
fishmonger who supplied the feast.

The inconvenience of this earlier practice made itself felt, and by degrees
it dropped off; but it was succeeded by a somewhat similar habit of giving the subsequent
history of personages introduced--a thing which, though Scott satirised
it in Mrs. Martha Buskbody's insistence on information about the later
history of Guse Gibbie,[196] by no means ceased with his time. Both
were, in fact, part of the general refusal to accept the conditions
of ordinary life.

If "tout passe" is an exaggeration, it is an exaggeration of the truth: and
in fiction, as in fact, the minor shapes must dissolve as well as
arise without too much fuss being made about them.[197]

[Sidenote:
Almahide.]

Almahide is, I think, more readable than Ibrahim; but
the English reader must disabuse himself of the idea (if he entertains
it) that he will find much of the original of The Conquest of Granada.

The book does, indeed, open like the play, with the faction-fights of
Abencerrages and Zegrys, and it ends with Boabdelin's jealousy of
his wife Almahide, while a few of the other names in both are identical.
But Almahide contains nothing, or hardly anything, of the character
of Almanzor, and Dryden has not attempted to touch a hundredth part
of the copious matter of the French novel, the early history of Almahide,
the usual immense digressions and side-histoires, the descriptions
(which, as in Ibrahim, play, I think, a larger relative part than
in the Cyrus), and what not.

[Sidenote: Clélie.]

[Sidenote: Perhaps the liveliest of the set.]

Copious as these are, however, in both books, they do not fill them out to
anything like the length of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival in
size, and perhaps superior in attraction, the Clélie.

I do not plead guilty to inconsistency or change of opinion in this "perhaps"
when it is compared with the very much larger space given to the earlier
novel. Le Grand Cyrus has been estated too firmly, as the type and
representative of the whole class, to be dislodged, and there is,
as we shall see presently, a good deal of repetition from it in Clélie
itself.

But this latter is the more amusing book of the two; it is, though equally or nearly as big, less labyrinthine;
there is somewhat livelier movement in it, and at the same time this is contrasted with a set or series of
interludes of love-casuistry, which are better, I think, than anything
of the kind in the Cyrus.[198] The most famous feature of these is,
of course, the well-known but constantly misnamed "Carte de Tendre"
("Map of the Country of Tenderness"--not of "Tenderness in the aibstract,"
as du Tendre would be). The discussion of what constitutes Tenderness comes
quite early; there is later a notable discourse on the respective attractions
of Love and of Glory or Ambition; a sort of Code and Anti-code of
lovers[199] occurs as "The Love-Morality of Tiramus," with a set of
(not always) contrary criticism thereof; and a debate of an almost
mediaeval kind as to the respective merits of merry and melancholy
mistresses.

Moreover, there is a rather remarkable "Vision of Poets"--past, present, and to come--which should
be taken in connection with the appearance, as an actual personage, of Anacreon. All this, taken in conjunction
with the "business" of the story, helps to give it the superior liveliness with which it has, rightly or
wrongly, been credited here.

[Sidenote: Rough outline of it.]

Of that business itself a complete account cannot, for reasons given
more than once, be attempted; though anybody who wants such a thing,
without going to the book itself, may find it in the places also above
mentioned.

There is
no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake person as
(v. inf.) in La Calprenède's chief books. Clélie is the real Clelia,
if the modern historical student will pass "real" without sniffing,
or even if he will not.

Her lover, "Aronce," although he probably may be a little
disguised from the English reader by his spelling, is so palpably the
again real "Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather wonders how his
identity can have been so long concealed in French (where the pronunciations
would be practically the same) from the readers of the story.

The book begins with a proceeding not quite so like that of the Cyrus as some to be mentioned later,
but still pretty close to the elder overture. "The illustrious Aronce
and the adorable Clelia" are actually going to be married, when there is a fearful
storm, an earthquake, and a disappearance of the heroine. She has,
of course, been carried off; one might say, without flippancy, of any
heroine of Madeleine de Scudéry's not only that she was, as in a famous and
already quoted saying, "very liable to be carried off," but that
it was not in nature that she should not be carried off as early and
as often as possible. And her abductor is no less a person than Horatius--our
own Horatius Cocles--the one who kept the bridge in some of the best
known of English verses, not he who provoked, from the sister whom
he murdered, the greatest speech in all French tragedy before, and
perhaps not merely before, Victor Hugo.

Horatius is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was bound to be, an
infinitely better fellow and of a better fate. Of course the end knits
straight on to the beginning.

Clélie and Aronce are united without an earthquake, and Porsena, with
obliging gallantry, resigns the crown of Clusium (from which he has
himself long been kept out by a "Mezentius," who will hardly work
in with Virgil's), not to Aronce, but to Clélie herself.

The enormous interval between (the book is practically as long as the Cyrus)
is occupied by the same, or (v. sup.) nearly the same tissue of delays, digressions,
and other maze-like devices for setting you off on a new quest when you seem to be quite
close to the goal. A large part of the scene is in Carthage, where, reversing
the process in regard to Mezentius, Asdrubals and Amilcars make their
appearance in a very "mixedly" historical fashion. A Prince of Numidia (who
had heard of Numidia in Tarquin's days?) fights a lively water-combat
with Horatius actually as he is carrying Clélie off, over the Lake
of Thrasymene.

All the
stock legends of the Porsena siege and others are duly brought in: and
the atrocious Sextus, not contented with his sin against Lucrèce, tries to
carry off Clélie likewise, but is fortunately or wisely prevented. Otherwise
the invariable propriety which from the time of the small love-novels
(v. sup. pp. 157-162) had distinguished these abductions might possibly
have been broken through. These outlines might be expanded (and the process would
not be very painful to me) into an abstract quite as long as that
of Cyrus; but "It Cannot Be."

One objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must
be allowed against Clélie.

That tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements--which has shown itself so often,
and which practically distinguishes the very great novelists from
those not so great by its absence or presence--is obvious here, though the huge
size of the book may conceal it from mere dippers, unless they be experts. The
similarity of the openings is, comparatively speaking, a usual thing.
It should not happen, and does not in really great writers; but it is tempting,
and is to some extent excused by the brocard about le premier pas. It
is so nice to put yourself in front of your beginning--to have made
sure of it!

But this charity will hardly extend to such a thing as the repetition of Cyrus's foolish promise to fight
Philidaspes before he marries Mandane in the case of Aronce, Horatius, and Clélie. The way in which
Aronce is kept an "unknown" for some time, and that in which his actual
relationship to Porsena is treated, have also too much of the replica;
and though a lively skirmish with a pirate which occurs is not quite
so absurd as that ready-made series of encores which was described
above (pp. 181-2), there is something a little like it in the way
in which the hero and his men alternately reduce the enemy to extremity,
and run over the deck to rescue friends who are in the pirates' power
from being butchered or flung overboard.

"Sapho's" invention, though by no means sterile, was evidently somewhat
indiscriminate, and she would seem to have thought it rather a pity
that a good thing should be used only once.

Nevertheless the compliment given above may be repeated.

If I were sent to twelve months' imprisonment of a mild description, and
allowed to choose a library, I should include in it, from the heroic
or semi-heroic division, Clélie, La Calprenède's two chief books, Gomberville's
Polexandre, and Gombauld's Endimion (this partly for the pictures),
with, as a matter of course, the Astrée, and a choice of one other.

By reading slowly and "savouring" the process, I should imagine that, with
one's memories of other things, they might be able to last for a year. And it would
be one of the best kind of fallows for the brain. In anticipation,
let us see something of these others now.

[Sidenote: La Calprenède: his comparative cheerfulness.]

It has seemed, as was said, desirable to follow the common opinion
of literary history in giving Madeleine de Scudéry the place of honour,
and the largest as well as the foremost share in our account of this
curious stage in the history of the novel. But if, to alter slightly
a famous quotation, I might "give a short hint to an impartial reader,"
I should very strongly advise him to begin his studies (or at least
his enjoyment) thereof, not with "Sapho," but with Gauthier de Costes,
Seigneur de la Calprenède, himself according to Tallemant almost the
proverbial "Gascon et demi"; a tragic dramatist, as well as a romantic
writer; a favourite of Mme. de Sévigné, who seldom went wrong in her
preferences, except when she preferred her very disagreeable daughter
to her very agreeable son; and more than any one else the inventor,
or at least perfecter, of the hectoring heroic style which we associate
with Dryden's plays.

 These made two exactly, even with the individual varieties. Here, on the other hand,
apart from the personal and the sexual range--which might be greater or less--a series of strong
stamps had been applied, as it were, from without; stamps that his observation played with
as, before a glass case on a table, it might have passed from medal to medal and from copper
to gold.  It befell that in the drama precisely there was a bad woman in a yellow frock who
made a pleasant weak good-looking young man in perpetual evening dress do the most dreadful
things.  Strether felt himself on the whole not afraid of the yellow frock, but he was vaguely
anxious over a certain kindness into which he found himself drifting for its victim.  He hadn't
come out, he reminded himself, to be too kind, or indeed to be kind at all, to Chadwick Newsome.
Would Chad also be in perpetual evening dress? He somehow rather hoped it--it seemed so to
add to THIS young man's general amenability; though he wondered too if, to fight him with his
own weapons, he himself (a thought almost startling) would have likewise to be.  This young
man furthermore would have been much more easy to handle--at least for HIM--than appeared probable
in respect to Chad.

It came up for him with Miss Gostrey that there were things of which she would really perhaps
after all have heard, and she admitted when a little pressed that she was never quite sure
of what she heard as distinguished from things such as, on occasions like the present, she
only extravagantly guessed.  "I seem with this freedom, you see, to have guessed Mr. Chad.
He's a young man on whose head high hopes are placed at Woollett; a young man a wicked woman
has got hold of and whom his family over there have sent you out to rescue.  You've accepted
the mission of separating him from the wicked woman.  Are you quite sure she's very bad for him?"

Something in his manner showed it as quite pulling him up.  "Of course we are.  Wouldn't YOU be?"

"Oh I don't know.  One never does--does one?--beforehand.  One can only judge on the facts.
Yours are quite new to me; I'm really not in the least, as you see, in possession of them:
so it will be awfully interesting to have them from you.  If you're satisfied, that's all that's
required.  I mean if you're sure you ARE sure: sure it won't do."

"That he should lead such a life?  Rather!"

"Oh but I don't know, you see, about his life; you've not told me about his life.  She may
be charming--his life!"

"Charming?"--Strether stared before him.  "She's base, venal-out of the streets."

"I see.  And HE--?"

"Chad, wretched boy?"

"Of what type and temper is he?" she went on as Strether had lapsed.

"Well--the obstinate."  It was as if for a moment he had been going to say more and had then
controlled himself.

That was scarce what she wished.  "Do you like him?"

This time he was prompt.  "No.  How CAN I?"

"Do you mean because of your being so saddled with him?"

"I'm thinking of his mother," said Strether after a moment.  "He has darkened her admirable
life."  He spoke with austerity.  "He has worried her half to death."

"Oh that's of course odious."  She had a pause as if for renewed emphasis of this truth, but
it ended on another note.  "Is her life very admirable?"

"Extraordinarily."

There was so much in the tone that Miss Gostrey had to devote another pause to the appreciation
of it.  "And has he only HER? In the early months he had fought a losing fight with them.

The walls
and ceiling and panes of glass were spotted with the marks of his
long battle.

But his foes had advanced in ever-fresh force, clouds and swarms
of them beyond number.

He had gone to meet them with a wire-killer, and tightly rolled newspapers.

He had imported fly paper from Dunkirk. But they could afford to sacrifice the few hundreds, which
his strokes could reach, and still overwhelm him.

Lately, he had given up the struggle, and let them take possession
of the room. They harassed him when he read, so he gave up reading.
They got into the food, so he ate less.

Between his two trips to the front daily at 8 A.M. and 2 P.M., he slept. He found he could lose himself in
sleep. Into that kingdom of sleep, they could not enter. As the weeks rolled on, he was able to
let himself down more and more easily into silence.

That became his life.

A slothfulness, a languor, even when awake, a half-conscious forcing
of himself through the routine work, a looking forward to the droning
room, and then the settling deep into the old plush chair, and the
blessed unconsciousness.

He drove a Red Cross ambulance to the French lines at Nieuport, collected
the sick and wounded soldiers and brought them to the Poste de Secours,
two miles back of the trenches.

He lived a hundred feet from the Poste, always within call. But the emergency call rarely came. There
were only the set runs, for the war had settled to its own regularity.
A wonderful idleness hung over the lines, where millions of men were
unemployed, waiting with strange patience for some unseen event.

Only the year before, these men were chatting in cafés, and busy
in a thousand ways. Now, the long hours of the day were lived without
activity in thoughtless routine.

Under the routine there was always the sense of waiting for a sudden
crash and horror.

The man was an English gentleman.

It was his own car he had brought, paid for by him, and he had offered
his car and services to the Fusiliers Marins. They had been glad of
his help, and for twelve months he had performed his daily duty and returned
to his loneliness. The men under whom he worked were the French doctors
of the Poste--the chief doctor, Monsieur Claude-Marie Le Bot, with
four stripes on his arm, and the courteous, grave administrator,
Eustache-Emmanuel Couillandre, a three-stripes man, and a half dozen
others, of three stripes and two.

They had welcomed him to their group when he came to them from London.
They had found him lively and likable, bringing gossip of the West End
with a dash of Leicester Square.

Then slowly a change had come on him. He went moody and silent.

"What's the matter with you?" asked Doctor Le Bot one day.

"Nothing's the matter with me," answered the man.

"It's war that's the matter."

"What do you mean by that?" put in one of the younger doctors.

"The trouble with war," began the man slowly, "isn't that there's
danger and death.

They are easy. The trouble with war is this. It's dull, damned deadly
dull.

It's the slowest thing in the world. It wears away at your mind,
like water dripping on a rock.

The
old Indian torture of letting water fall on your skull, drop by drop,
till you went raving crazy, is nothing to what war does to the mind of
millions of men.

They can't think of anything else but war, and they have no thoughts about
that.

They can't talk of another blessed thing, and the result is they have nothing to say at all."

As he talked a flush came into his face. He gathered speed, while he spoke, till
his words came with a rush, as if he were relieving himself of inner
pain.

"Have you ever heard the true inside account of an Arctic expedition?"
he went on.

"There's a handful of men locked up inside a little ship for thirteen or
fourteen months. Nothing to look out on but snow and ice, one color and a
horizonful of it.

Nothing to dream of but arriving at a Pole--and that is a theoretical point
in infinite space. There's no such thing. The midnight sun and the frozen
stuff get on their nerves--same old sun in the same old place, same
kind of weather.

What happens? The natural thing, of course. They get so they hate each other like poison. They go around
with a mad on.

They carry hate against the commander and the cook and the fellow whose berth
creaks every time he shifts. Each man thinks the shipload is the rottenest
gang ever thrown together. He wonders why they didn't bring somebody
decent along.

He gets to scoring up grudges against the different people, and waits his chance to get back."

He stopped a minute, and looked around at the doctors, who were giving
him close attention.

Then he went on with the same intensity.

"Now that's war, only war is more so. Here you are in one place for sixteen months. You shovel
yourself into a stinking hole in the ground.

At seven in the morning, you boil yourself some muddy coffee that tastes
like the River Thames at Battersea Bridge. You take a knife that's had
knicks hacked out of it, and cut a hunk of dry bread that chews like
sand.

You eat some 'bully beef out of a tin, same tinned stuff as you've
been eating ever since your stomach went on strike a year ago.

Once a week for a treat, you cut a steak off the flank of a dead
horse.

That tastes better, because it's fresh meat. When you're sent back a few miles,
en 'piquet, you sleep in a village that looks like Sodom after the
sulphur struck it.

Houses singed and tumbled, dead bodies in the ruins, a broken-legged
dog, trailing its hind foot, in front of the house where you are.

Tobacco--surely. You'd die if you didn't have a smoke. But the rotten
little cigarettes with no taste to them that smoke like chopped hay.

And the cigars made out of rags and shredded toothpicks--"

"Here, have a cigarette," suggested the youngest doctor.

But the man was too busy in working out his own thoughts.

"The whole thing," he continued, "is a mixture of a morgue and a hospital--only
those places have running water, and people in white aprons to tidy
things up.

And a battle--Three days under bombardment, living in the cellar.

The guns going off five, six times to the minute, and then waiting
a couple of hours and dropping one in, next door.

The crumpling noise when a little brick house caves in, like a man
when you hit him in the stomach, just going all together in a heap.

And the sick smell that comes out of the mess from plaster and brick
dust.

"And getting wounded, that's jolly, isn't it? Rifle ball through your left biceps.
Dick walks you back to the dressing station. Doctor busy at luncheon with a
couple of visiting officers. Lie down in the straw. Straw has a pleasant
smell when it's smeared with iodine and blood.

Wait till the doctor has had his bottle of wine.

"'Nothing very much,' he says, when he gets around to you.

Drops some juice in, ties the white rag around, and you go back to your straw. Three, four hours, and
along come the body snatchers--the chauffeur chap doesn't know how
to drive, bumps into every shell hole for seven miles.

Every half mile, drive down into the ditch mud, to get out of the
way of some ammunition wagons going to the front.

The wheel gets stuck. Put on power, in jumps, to bump the car out.

Every jerk tears at your open sore, as if the wheel had got stuck
in your arm and was being pulled out.

Two hours to do the seven miles. Get to the field hospital. No time for
you.

Lie on your stretcher in the court, where the flies swarm on you.
Always flies.

Flies on the blood of the wounded, glued to the bandage. Flies on the face of the
dead."

So he had once spoken and left them wondering.

But that whirling burst of words was long before, in those earlier
days of his work. Nothing like that had happened in weeks.

No such vivid pictures lighted him now.

The man slept on.

There was a scratching at the window, then a steady tapping, then
a resounding fist on the casement.

Gradually, the sleeping man came up through the deep waters of unconsciousness.

His eyes were heavy. He sat a moment, brooding, then turned toward the
insistent noise.

"Monsieur Watts!" said a voice.

"Yes," answered the man. He stretched himself, and raised the sash. A brisk
little French Marin was at the window.

"The doctors are at luncheon. They are waiting for you," the soldier said in rapid Breton French;
"today you are their guest."

"Of course," replied the man, "I had forgotten. I will come at once."

He stretched his arms over his head--a tall figure of a man, but bent
at the shoulders, as if all the dreariness of his surroundings had
settled there.

He had the stoop of an old man, and the walk. He stepped out of
his room, into the street, and stood a moment in the midday sunshine,
blinking.

Then he walked down the village street to the Poste, and pushed through
the dressing-rooms to the dining-room at the rear.

The doctors looked up as he entered. He nodded, but gave no speech
back for their courteous, their cordial greeting.

In silence he ate the simple relishes of sardines and olives. Then the treat of the luncheon was brought
in by the orderly. It was a duckling, taken from a refugee farm,
and done to a brown crisp.

The head doctor carved and served it.

"See here," said Watts loudly. He lifted his wing of the duckling where
a dead fly was cooked in with the gravy.

He pushed his chair back. It grated shrilly on the stone floor. He rose.

"Flies,"
he said, and left the room.

* * * * *

Watts was the guest at the informal trench luncheon.

The officers showed him little favors from time to time, for he had served
their wounded faithfully for many months.

It is the highest honor they can pay when they admit a civilian to the first
line of trenches. Shelling from Westend was mild and inaccurate, going
high overhead and falling with a mutter into the seven-times wrecked
and thoroughly deserted houses of Nieuport village.

But the sound of it gave a gentle tingle to the act of eating. There
was occasional rifle fire, the bullet singing close.

"They're improving," said the Commandant, "a fellow reached over the
trench this morning for his Billy-can, and they got him in the hand."

Two Marins cleared away the plank on which bread and coffee and tinned
meat had been served.

The hot August sun cooked the loose earth, and heightened the smells
of food.

A swarm of flies poured over the outer rim and dropped down on squatting
men and the scattered commissariat. Watts was sitting at a little distance
from the group. He closed his eyes, but soon began striking methodically
at the settling flies.

He fought them with the right arm
and the left in long heavy strokes, patiently, without enthusiasm. The
soldiers brought out a pack of cards, and leaned forward for the
deal.

Suddenly Watts rose, lifted his arms above the trench, and deliberately
stretched.

Three faint cracks sounded from across the hillock, and he tumbled
out at full length, as if some one had flung him away.

The men hastened to him, coming crouched over but swiftly.

"Got him in the right arm," said the Commandant.

"Thank God," muttered Watts, sleepily.

* * * * *

It was the Convent Hospital of Furnes.

There was quiet in the ward of twenty-five beds, where side by side
slept the wounded of France and Germany and Belgium and England.

Suddenly, a resounding whack rang through the ward.

A German boy jumped up sitting in his cot. The sound had awakened memories.
He looked over to the tall Englishman in the next cot, who had struck
out at one of the heavy innumerable flies, who hover over wounded
men, and pry down under bandages.

"Let
me tell you," said the youth eagerly, "I have a preparation--I'm
a chemist, you know--I've worked out a powder that kills flies."

Watts looked up from his pillow. His face was weary.

"It's sweet, you know, and attracts them," went on the boy, "then the least
sniff of it finishes them.

They trail away, and die in a few minutes. You can clear a room in
half an hour.

Then all you have to do is to sweep up."

"See here," he said, "I'll show you. Sister," he called. The nurse
hurried to his side.

"Sister? You were kind enough to save my kit.

May I have it a moment?"

He took
out a tin flask, and squeezed it--a brown powder puffed through the
pin-point holes at the mouth.

It settled in a dust on the white coverlet.

"Please be very quiet," he said.

He settled back, as if for sleep, but his half-shut eyes were watchful.

A couple of minutes passed, then a fly circled his head, and made for
the spot on the spread. It nosed its way in, crawled heavily a few inches
up the coverlet, and turned its legs up. Two more came, alighted, sniffed
and died.

"You see," he said.

* * * * *

Next day, the head of the Coxyde Poste motored over to Furnes for a call
on his wounded helper.

"Where does all that chatter come from?" he asked.

Sister Teresa smiled.

"It's your silent friend," she said. "He is the noisiest old thing
in the ward."

"Talking to himself?" inquired the doctor.

"Have a look for yourself," urged the nurse. They stepped into the ward,
and down the stone floor, till they came to the supply table. Here they pretended
to busy themselves with lint.

"Most interesting," Watts was saying. "That is a new idea to me. Here they've been telling me for a year that
there's no way but the slow push, trench after trench--"

"Let me say to you," interrupted the Saxon lad.

"You will pardon me, if I finish what I am saying," went on Watts
in full tidal flow.

"What was it I was saying? Oh, yes, I remember--that slow hard push is not the only way, after all. You tell me--"

"That's
the way it is all day long," explained the sister. "Chatter, chatter, chatter. They are telling
each other all they know. You would think they would get fed up. But
as fast as one of them says something, that seems to be a new idea
to the other.

Mr. Watts acts like a man who has been starved."

Watts caught sight of his friend.

"We've killed all the flies," he shouted.

WOMEN UNDER FIRE

This war has been a revelation of womanhood. To see one of these cool,
friendly creatures, American and English, shove her motor car into
shell-fire, make her rescue of helpless crippled men, and steam back
to safety, is to watch a resourceful and disciplined being.

They may be, they are, "ministering angels," but there is nothing meek in their demeanor. They have
stepped to a vantage from which nothing in man's contemptuous philosophy will ever dislodge them. They
have always existed to astonish those who knew them best, and have
turned life into a surprise party from Eden to the era of forcible
feeding.

But assuredly it would make the dogmatists on the essentially feminine nature, like Kipling, rub
their eyes, to watch modern women at work under fire. They haven't the slightest fear of being killed. Give them a job
under bombardment, and they unfold the stretcher, place the pillow and tuck in
the blanket, without a quiver of apprehension. That, too, when some of the
men are scampering for cover, and ducking chance pellets from the woolly
white cloud that breaks overhead.

The women will eat their luncheon with relish within three hundred
feet of a French battery in full blaze.

Is there a test left to the pride of man that the modern woman does not take lightly and skilfully?
Gone are the Victorian nerves and the eighteenth-century fainting. All the
old false delicacies have been swamped.

She has been held back like a hound from the hunting, till we really
believed we had a harmless household pet, who loved security. We had
forgotten the pioneer women who struck across frontiers with a hardihood
that matched that of their mates.

And now the modern woman emerges from her protected home, and pushes forward,
careless and curious.

"What are women going to do about this war?"

That question
my wife and I asked each other at the outbreak of the present conflict.
There were several attitudes that they might take. They could deplore
war, because it destroyed their own best products.

They could form peace leagues and pass resolutions
against war.

They could return to their ancient job of humble service, and resume their
familiar location in the background. They did all these things and did them
fervently; but they did something else in this war--they stepped out into the
foreground, where the air was thick with danger, and demonstrated their
courage. The mother no longer says: "Return, my gallant one, with your
shield or on it," and goes back to her baking. She packs her kit and
jumps into a motor ambulance headed for the dressing station.

We have had an excellent chance to watch women in this war. Our corps
have had access to every line from Nieuport on the sea, down for twenty
miles. We were able to run out to skirmishes, to reach the wounded where
they had fallen. We have gone where the fighting had been at such
close range that in one barnyard in Ramscappelle lay thirteen dead--Germans,
French and Belgians.

We brought back three wounded Germans
from the stable. We were in Dixmude on the afternoon when the Germans destroyed
the town by artillery fire. We were in Ypres on November first, the
day after the most terrible battle in history, when fifty thousand English
out of a hundred and twenty thousand fell. For three months my wife lived in
Pervyse, with two British women.

Not one house in the town itself is left untouched by shell-fire.

The women lived in a cellar for the first weeks. Then they moved
into a partially demolished house, and a little later a shell exploded
in the kitchen.

The women
were at work in the next room.

We have had opportunity for observing women in war, for we have seen
several hundred of them--nurses, helpers, chauffeurs, writers--under
varying degrees of strain and danger.

The women whom I met
in Belgium were all alike. They refused to take "their place." They were not interested
in their personal welfare. There have been individual men, a few of them--English,
French and Belgian, soldiers, chauffeurs and civilians--who have turned
tail when the danger was acute.

But the women we have watched are strangely lacking in fear.

I asked a
famous war writer, whose breast was gay with the ribbons of half a dozen
campaigns, what was the matter with all these women, that they did not tremble
and go green under fire, as some of us did. He said:

"They don't belong out here. They have no business to be under fire. They ought to
be back at the hospitals down at Dunkirk. They don't appreciate danger. That's
the trouble with them; they have no imagination."

That's an easy way out. But the real reasons lie deeper than a mental
inferiority.

These women certainly had quite as good an equipment in
mentality as the drivers and stretcher bearers. They could not bear to let
immense numbers of men lie in pain. They wished to bring their instinct
for help to the place where it was needed.

The other reason is a product of their changed thinking under modern
conditions. "I want to see the shells," said a discontented lady
at Dunkirk.

She was weary of the peace and safety of a town twenty miles back from
the front. Women suddenly saw their time had come to strip man of
one more of his monopolies.

For some thousand years he had
been bragging of his carriage and bearing in battle. He had told the women
folks at home how admirable he had been under strain, and he went on
to claim special privileges as the reward for his gallant behavior.
He posed as their protector.

He assumed the right to tax them because they did not lend a hand when
invasion came. Now women are campaigning in France and Belgium to show
that man's much-advertised quality of courage is a race possession.

They
had already shown it while peace was still in the land, but their demonstration
met with disfavor. Just before the war broke out I saw a woman suffragist
thrown into a pond of water at Denmark Hill. I saw another mauled and bruised
by a crowd of men in Hyde Park. They were the same sort of women as these
hundreds at the front, who are affirming a new value. The argument is
hotly contended whether women belong in the war zone.

Conservative Englishmen deem
them a nuisance, and wish them back in London. Meanwhile, they come and stay.
English officials tried to send home the three of our women who had
been nursing within thirty yards of the trenches at Pervyse.

But the King of the Belgians, and Baron de Broqueville, Prime minister
of Belgium, had been watching their work, and refused to move them.

One
morning we came into the dining-room of our Convent Hospital at Furnes,
and there on a stretcher on the floor was a girl sleeping profoundly.
We thought at first we had one more of our innumerable wounded who
overflowed the beds and wards during those crowded days. She rested
through the morning and through the noon meal. The noise about did
not disturb her. She did not stir in her heavy sleep, lying under
the window, her face of olive skin, with a touch of red in the right
cheek, turned away from the light. She awoke after twenty hours. Silently,
she had come in the evening before, wearied to exhaustion after a
week of nursing in the Belgian trenches.

That was the thing you were
confronted with--woman after woman hurling herself at the war till
spent. They wished to share with men the hardship and peril. If risks
were right for the men, then they were right for women. If the time
had come for nations to risk death, these women refused to claim the
exemptions of sex difference. If war was unavoidable, then it was
equally proper for women to be present and carry on the work of salvage.

Of
a desire to kill they have none. A certain type of man under excitement
likes to shoot and reach his mark. I have had soldiers tell me with
pride of the number of enemies they have potted. It sounds very much
like an Indian score-card of scalps or a grouse hunter's bag of game.
Our women did not talk in these terms, nor did they act so. They gave
the same care to German wounded as to Belgian, French and English
wounded, and that though they knew they would not receive mercy if
the enemy came across the fields and stormed the trenches. A couple
of machine guns placed on the trench at Pervyse could have raked the
ruined village and killed our three nurses. They shared the terms
of peril with the soldiers; but they had no desire for retaliation,
no wish to wreak their will on human life. Their instinct is to help.
The danger does not excite them to a nervous explosion where they
grab for a gun and shoot the other fellow.

I was with an English
physician one day before he was seasoned. We were under the bank at
Grembergen, just across the river from Termonde. The enemy were putting
over shells about one hundred yards from where we were crawling toward
a machine-shop sheltering wounded men. The obus were noisy and the
dirt flew high. Scattered bits of metal struck the bank. As we heard
the shell moaning for that second of time when it draws close, we
would crawl into one of the trenches scooped out in the green bank,
an earthen cave with a roof of boughs.

"Let's get out of this," said
the doctor. "It's too hot for our kind of work. If I had a rifle and
could shoot back I shouldn't mind it.  "YOU'LL save him.  That's who'll save him."

"Oh but with Mamie's aid.  Unless indeed you mean," he added, "that I shall effect so much
more with yours!"

It made her at last again look at him.  "You'll do more--as you're so much better--than all
of us put together."

"I think I'm only better since I've known YOU!" Strether bravely returned.

The depletion of the place, the shrinkage of the crowd and now comparatively quiet withdrawal
of its last elements had already brought them nearer the door and put them in relation with
a messenger of whom he bespoke Miss Gostrey's cab.  But this left them a few minutes more,
which she was clearly in no mood not to use.  "You've spoken to me of what--by your success--Mr.
Chad stands to gain.  But you've not spoken to me of what you do."

"Oh I've nothing more to gain," said Strether very simply.

She took it as even quite too simple.  "You mean you've got it all 'down'?  You've been paid
in advance?"

"Ah don't talk about payment!" he groaned.

Something in the tone of it pulled her up, but as their messenger still delayed she had another
chance and she put it in another way. "What--by failure--do you stand to lose?"

He still, however, wouldn't have it.  "Nothing!" he exclaimed, and on the messenger's at this
instant reappearing he was able to sink the subject in their responsive advance.  When, a few
steps up the street, under a lamp, he had put her into her four-wheeler and she had asked him
if the man had called for him no second conveyance, he replied before the door was closed.
"You won't take me with you?"

"Not for the world."

"Then I shall walk."

"In the rain?"

"I like the rain," said Strether.  "Good-night!"

She kept him a moment, while his hand was on the door, by not answering; after which she answered
by repeating her question. "What do you stand to lose?"

Why the question now affected him as other he couldn't have said; he could only this time meet
it otherwise.  "Everything."

"So I thought.  Then you shall succeed.  And to that end I'm yours--"

"Ah, dear lady!" he kindly breathed.

"Till death!" said Maria Gostrey.  "Good-night."

II

Strether called, his second morning in Paris, on the bankers of the Rue Scribe to whom his
letter of credit was addressed, and he made this visit attended by Waymarsh, in whose company
he had crossed from London two days before.  They had hastened to the Rue Scribe on the morrow
of their arrival, but Strether had not then found the letters the hope of which prompted this
errand.  He had had as yet none at all; hadn't expected them in London, but had counted on
several in Paris, and, disconcerted now, had presently strolled back to the Boulevard with
a sense of injury that he felt himself taking for as good a start as any other.  It would serve,
this spur to his spirit, he reflected, as, pausing at the top of the street, he looked up and
down the great foreign avenue, it would serve to begin business with.  His idea was to begin
business immediately, and it did much for him the rest of his day that the beginning of business
awaited him.  He did little else till night but ask himself what he should do if he hadn't
fortunately had so much to do; but he put himself the question in many different situations
and connexions.  What carried him hither and yon was an admirable theory that nothing he could
do wouldn't be in some manner related to what he fundamentally had on hand, or WOULD be--should
he happen to have a scruple--wasted for it.  He did happen to have a scruple--a scruple about
taking no definite step till he should get letters; but this reasoning carried it off.  A single
day to feel his feet--he had felt them as yet only at Chester and in London--was he could consider,
none too much; and having, as he had often privately expressed it, Paris to reckon with, he
threw these hours of freshness consciously into the reckoning.  They made it continually greater,
but that was what it had best be if it was to be anything at all, and he gave himself up till
far into the evening, at the theatre and on the return, after the theatre, along the bright
congested Boulevard, to feeling it grow.  Waymarsh had accompanied him this time to the play,
and the two men had walked together, as a first stage, from the Gymnase to the Cafe Riche,
into the crowded "terrace" of which establishment--the night, or rather the morning, for midnight
had struck, being bland and populous--they had wedged themselves for refreshment. Waymarsh,
as a result of some discussion with his friend, had made a marked virtue of his having now
let himself go; and there had been elements of impression in their half-hour over their watered
beer-glasses that gave him his occasion for conveying that he held this compromise with his
stiffer self to have become extreme.  He conveyed it--for it was still, after all, his stiffer
self who gloomed out of the glare of the terrace--in solemn silence; and there was indeed a
great deal of critical silence, every way, between the companions, even till they gained the
Place de l'Opera, as to the character of their nocturnal progress.

This morning there WERE letters--letters which had reached London, apparently all together,
the day of Strether's journey, and had taken their time to follow him; so that, after a controlled
impulse to go into them in the reception-room of the bank, which, reminding him of the post-office
at Woollett, affected him as the abutment of some transatlantic bridge, he slipped them into
the pocket of his loose grey overcoat with a sense of the felicity of carrying them off.  Waymarsh,
who had had letters yesterday, had had them again to-day, and Waymarsh suggested in this particular
no controlled impulses.  The last one he was at all events likely to be observed to struggle
with was clearly that of bringing to a premature close any visit to the Rue Scribe. Strether
had left him there yesterday; he wanted to see the papers, and he had spent, by what his friend
could make out, a succession of hours with the papers.  He spoke of the establishment, with
emphasis, as a post of superior observation; just as he spoke generally of his actual damnable
doom as a device for hiding from him what was going on. Europe was best described, to his mind,
as an elaborate engine for dissociating the confined American from that indispensable knowledge,
and was accordingly only rendered bearable by these occasional stations of relief, traps for
the arrest of wandering western airs.  Strether, on his side, set himself to walk again--he
had his relief in his pocket; and indeed, much as he had desired his budget, the growth of
restlessness might have been marked in him from the moment he had assured himself of the superscription
of most of the missives it contained.  This restlessness became therefore his temporary law;
he knew he should recognise as soon as see it the best place of all for settling down with
his chief correspondent.  He had for the next hour an accidental air of looking for it in the
windows of shops; he came down the Rue de la Paix in the sun and, passing across the Tuileries
and the river, indulged more than once--as if on finding himself determined--in a sudden pause
before the book-stalls of the opposite quay. This may not deter a man from crossing an affected zone,
but it may deter the Staffs from using that zone, when they realise that this would imply the
certainty of many thousands of casualties amongst the troops. The choice
is between two evils, tactical acquiescence to the enemy's plan, blocking
out a certain area, or the certainty of huge casualties.

A very interesting case occurred in the German attack near Mt. Kemmel in the spring of 1918,
where large quantities of German mustard gas were used some distance in front of the original
line of German attack. In this case, not only was it clear that the Germans would not attempt to advance
beyond a limited objective (and they did not), but the development of their attack left them
organising their defences behind their own mustard gas barrage.

The "Persistent Lethal"

Substance.--The importance of these considerations can hardly be exaggerated when we realise that, at any time,
a substance possessing the same strategic value as mustard gas, but much more violent casualty
effects, may be discovered. The Germans were certainly aware of these possibilities. According
to the statement of an apparently reliable prisoner of the 30th R.I.R., July, 1918, the Regimental
Gas Officer stated in a lecture that, as the Allies had used a new
gas, the Germans were going to employ a "White Cross" gas shell.

This gas was "stronger" than any of the gases at present in use;
it possessed a persistence up to eight days, and could, therefore,
not be used on the front for an assault.

Its persistence was favoured by damp or misty weather and by the nature
of the ground.

Neither the German drum nor the masks of the Allies afforded protection against it. The last important
German development consisted in the use of pumice impregnated with phosgene in their Livens bombs.
It was clear that the Germans were attempting to produce a gas which was not only highly lethal but persistent.
Following up this idea, we can forecast the use of a chemical which will not only permit the formation of
defensive flanks, or pockets, in the enemy front, or in our own defensive positions, through
their influence on Staff considerations with regard to casualties,
but, by replacing the relatively mild casualty effect of mustard gas
by a highly and rapidly lethal effect, will render these areas not
only strategically, but physically, impassable.

One of the most significant possibilities in chemical warfare development
is the arrival of this type of the compound, the highly lethal, highly
persistent chemical.

The Critical Range.--These considerations are very interesting from the military point of view. Consider the
phenomenal amount of muscular energy required to organise any captured stretch of territory against
counter-attack. The type of compound we have outlined is likely
to change completely the aspect of attack and counter-attack. The
Somme battlefield, for example, gave the impression of a series of
defensive positions organised by the one side or the other after attack
or counter-attack, in order to hold small gains of ground, which were
never intended to represent the final advance.

Successful
progress from one trench system meant building another, under the
pounding of the enemy's artillery, and the deadly fire of machine-guns,
exposing, in this improvised system, large numbers of troops, among
which casualties constituted a continuous drain upon eventual reserves.

The arrival of the highly persistent lethal compound should provide
an effective substitute for this laborious constructional protection
in the shape of the persistent lethal barrage.

This will render immediate
counter-attack and near machine-gun fire very difficult.

Automatically, fewer men will be needed to hold the advanced positions. It is true that, with
the next attack, "kicking off" and assembly positions will be required, for these can be much more efficiently
developed behind a deep chemical barrage and will demand the exposure of fewer men where more time
is available for preparation. Such conditions, however, can only occur if one, side possesses some distinct
advantage with regard to surprise by, or efficient protection against, the persistent lethal compound.
When both sides are equally matched in this respect, a duel will
arise in which the winner will be the one who can throw the critical
concentrations of chemical into a given area at the greatest range.

This might be called the "critical range." Herein lies the importance of the development of such weapons
as the Livens projector, and the Germans had certainly grasped an important principle, when
they used our own modified weapon against us with a much greater range than our own. If we
admit the possibility of a persistent lethal compound, this question of critical range assumes
outstanding importance.

The New No-Man's-Land.--The recent war witnessed a rather sudden adoption
of trench warfare, during a period in which the artillery strengths
of both sides were relatively feeble, when compared with the later
stages of the war.

Accordingly, there arose very definite lines of field fortifications, and strongly held trench systems,
separated from each other by a comparatively narrow No-Man's-Land, With the development of the formidable
artillery strengths of belligerents, there was a tendency to form a much wider No-Man's-Land, and
the front line systems were lightly held, approximating, in many
cases, to an outpost line.

The discovery and mass production of a persistent lethal substance
is likely to convert No-Man's-Land into a permanently infected gas
zone, manned by special outposts of permanently protected troops.

Combined with the development of smoke, this may render unnecessary the highly organised trench assembly systems
of the recent war, used before the assault, and, with the development of the tank as a fast
fighting machine, and for the transport of troops, one can obtain
a glimpse of the nature of the new attack and counter-attack.

A recent writer[1] has shown us the future tank carrying war into the enemy's country and destroying
his nerve centres by actually reaching and paralysing the G.H.Q.s. of armies and smaller formations. Such
operations will have to occur through a wide zone of the new gas and will necessitate the anti-gas
tank. Indeed, one of the most important functions of the tank will be to carry the advance guard of
an army beyond the infected No-Man's-Land, and such an advance will occur behind a series
of smoke barrages created, in the first place, by the artillery, and, later, by the advance
of tanks themselves.

[1] Tanks in the Great War, Col. J. F. C. Fuller., D.S.O.

The "Alert
Gas Zone."--The development of the "gas alert" idea has definite interest for
the future of chemical warfare. It is well known how the development
of gas shell and surprise gas shoots by the Germans led to the necessity
for "gas alert" conditions between certain times and within certain
distances of the front line.

The mask had to be worn in the so-called ready position, in order
that swift adjustment might be possible in case of surprise attack. The
summer of 1917 witnessed a great increase in gas shell activity.

This was reflected in important changes in the "gas alert" regulations. In the autumn of that year
all periods of readiness were abolished and replaced by a constant state of readiness. In the forward area
absolute readiness was required within two miles of the front line, and
special precautions were taken as far back as twelve miles. That the
Germans suffered under the same restraints is witnessed by many captured
documents.

In particular, a divisional order taken in December, 1917, gave the gas danger zone as within fifteen
kilometres of the front line, and within this region every one must carry a mask. The alert position of
the mask was insisted upon within two kilometres of the front line. By July the alert zone had increased
in depth in both armies. This tendency must have increased, had the war continued, for both sides
were employing gas in guns of larger calibres, and weapons were being devised, such as the improved German
Livens projector, which gave high concentrations at much greater distances from the front line, i.e.
with greater critical ranges.

We have seen how the possible development of a persistent lethal compound
may produce an infected and wide No-Man's-Land.

Imposed on this, there will, no doubt, be "gas alert" conditions of
great depths. How do these conceptions work out for the war of movement?
It would appear that the possession of such a compound and the means
of producing and using it on a very large scale could determine the
stationary or open nature of warfare, if other forces were not too
unequal.

A new military factor emerges, the artificial, permanent, unmanned obstacle, which can be laid down at will
on areas whose magnitude depends finally on manufacturing capacity.

The germ of the idea appeared during the war at Kemmel and in the various
mustard gas barrages formed by artillery or delayed mines used by the
Germans in their great retreat. The sudden development of such barriers
will be equivalent in effect to the creation of strong trench systems,
but these could never result, under war conditions, in time to approach
the strategic flexibility and importance of the persistent lethal
infected barrier.

Gas and Aircraft.--The combination of gas and aircraft presents the
possibility of attaining strategic effects by chemical means. Many rumours
were afloat, towards the end of the war, regarding the use of gas
by enemy aircraft, and there was apprehension amongst the civil populations,
which has been reflected in numerous public utterances.

Evidence on the matter is very scanty. In July, 1917, the use of gas in aeroplane
bombs by the Germans was reported, but not confirmed. Further reports in August
indicated the use of Blue Cross, owing to the sneezing effects which
were produced on those within reach of the air bomb.

In October, the evidence was more conclusive. But the German aeroplanes left no blind or dud shell,
and, beyond the violent nasal and sneezing effects of Blue Cross, evidence was again absent.
This report was very persistent, for, in July, 1918, there were again
rumours that Blue Cross bombs had been dropped on the British near
Ficheux.

The Air Forces of the different armies were, perhaps, the last to feel the effects of the gas campaign,
but the pilots of low-flying aeroplanes in the 1918 offensive were constantly crossing pockets
of gas, and this, added to the fact that the pilots were often compelled to land in gas, led to their
equipment with gas masks. A respirator of special type was taken from a German aviator in April, 1918, after the fighting
at Passchendaele.

But the war gave us no direct evidence of the successful use of gas and war chemicals from aircraft.
This, however, is no criterion as to its eventual importance. The Allies definitely refrained
from employing the combination until Germany should give them the start in what was regarded as
a new atrocity. The main reason for their lack of development on these lines was probably the fact
that the most suitable type of gas only developed during the later stages
of the war, when it was required exceedingly urgently on the front.

No really harmful persistent compound appeared before the advent of mustard gas, and the dangerous non-persistent
types, such as phosgene, could not have been used with great success, owing to the fact that very
considerable quantities would have been required to produce any serious effect. Mustard gas,
however, which could have haunted a city for days, would not have been required in such large quantities.
But its more urgent need on the front, and the fact that soon after it arrived the Germans were sending
out feelers to see whether the Allies would consider the cessation of chemical warfare, were probably sufficient
reasons to explain their failure to use it from aeroplanes.

Another point must be raised in connection with the use of gas from
aircraft which has not yet received much attention.

We must remember that the use of projectiles from aircraft over a city was a very different proposition from
their use over a battle-field. One of the advantages of gas over explosives on the field of battle
was its greater range of action.

It produced effects at longer distances from the point of impact, but no such incentive existed for
the use of gas from aeroplanes over large cities. Explosives, which might miss their objective
on the field of battle, could not do so in a city. They were bound to hit something. The load of the
aeroplane is always important, and the essential is to carry, weight for weight, the material
which will produce the most effect. There is no doubt what this will he when the persistent lethal
compound arrives, and mustard gas would probably have been superior to explosives for use by
German aircraft on British cities.

Protective Development;--Individual Protection.--The question of protection
against chemical attack presents some knotty problems for the future.

Let us glance at the broad lines of war development in this field and forecast their future in a speculative
way. Protection developed along two main lines. Individual protection covered the mask and
any other protective appliance used by the individual soldier, while
the term collective protection was applied to any method or appliance
which afforded simultaneous protection for a number of individuals.

In general, the former represented an attempt to purify the poisoned
air actually inspired by the soldier, whereas the latter was an attempt
to purify the atmosphere of a locality or to prevent its initial poisoning.

How far can the individual form of protection develop to meet the
possibilities of the chemical attack? It certainly seems to have countered
satisfactorily all the war attacks upon the respiratory system, although,
as we have pointed out, the Germans might have failed, had we been
sufficiently prompt in introducing our arsenic compounds.

But we have forecasted the use of chemicals which may attack human functions
hitherto immune. For the sake of our argument, we can divide these into
two classes, those attained through the respiratory and digestive systems
and those attained through contact with some other part of the body.

The former can probably be satisfactorily met by developments in the mask.
Even that does not appear certain, when we remember the emphasis laid by
Germany upon the possibility of penetrating the mask by using a particulate
cloud.

The last word has certainly not been spoken in the struggle between the mask and the chemical attempting
to penetrate it. But both the introduction of mustard gas and general speculative grounds justify
us in concluding that attacks may materialise upon other parts of the human organism, We cannot foresee
the actual point of attack and can, therefore, only view with assurance some form of protection
which covers the whole body.

Collective Protection.--All parties dabbled in such a form of protection,
but the French were the only ones to make a large-scale experiment
on the front.

It was not very successful, for the burden of these oilskin suits was intolerable. It may be that some successful
form of protection for the whole body will materialise, but on
general grounds we can assume that development will follow other lines. What
are the possibilities? They all lie in the direction of collective
protection.

The individual cannot be satisfactorily protected from the new gas and remain an efficient soldier.
We must, therefore, see whether it is not possible to protect numbers of men by removing them from
contact with the poisoned atmosphere. A stationary form of such protection was used by all
the armies, but emphasised by the French, by the creation of a large number of enormous underground
chambers, some capable of holding more than a thousand men, the entries to which were carefully protected
by special filtering devices to prevent the entry of the poisoned external atmosphere. On
the British front these enormous dug-outs, although not absent, were largely replaced by the
efficient gas-proof organisation of the smaller dugouts. The use of impregnated
blankets for this purpose must be well known to any who visited the
front or took part in hostilities. But you cannot imprison a whole army
in this way.  It was a place of which, unmistakeably,
Chad was fond; wherefore if he, Strether, should like it too much, what on earth, with such
a bond, would become of either of them?  It all depended of course--which was a gleam of light--on
how the "too much" was measured; though indeed our friend fairly felt, while he prolonged the
meditation I describe, that for himself even already a certain measure had been reached. It
will have been sufficiently seen that he was not a man to neglect any good chance for reflexion.
Was it at all possible for instance to like Paris enough without liking it too much?  He luckily
however hadn't promised Mrs. Newsome not to like it at all.  He was ready to recognise at this
stage that such an engagement WOULD have tied his hands.  The Luxembourg Gardens were incontestably
just so adorable at this hour by reason--in addition to their intrinsic charm--of his not having
taken it.  The only engagement he had taken, when he looked the thing in the face, was to do
what he reasonably could. 

In some places Charles was proclaimed by the populace; several ministers openly prayed for him
in the churches: the common council, in their address, declared themselves not averse to his restoration;
and the house itself was induced to repeal[a] the celebrated engagement in favour of a commonwealth,
without a single person or a house of peers, and to embody under trusty officers the militia
of the city and the counties, as a counterpoise to the republican interest in the army. The judges
of the late king, and the purchasers of forfeited property, began to tremble. They first tempted
the ambition of the lord-general with the offer of the sovereign authority.[2] Rejected by him,
they appealed to the military; they represented the loss of their
arrears,

[Footnote 1: Clar. Pap. iii. 704. Ludlow, 364, 365.

Price, 773.]

[Footnote 2: Gumble, 270. Two offers of assistance were made to the general, on the supposition
that he might aspire to the supreme power; one from the republicans, which I have mentioned, another
from Bordeaux, the French ambassador, in the name of Cardinal Mazarin.
On one of these offers he was questioned by Sir Anthony Ashley Copper
in the council of state.

If we may believe Clarges, one of his secret advisers, it was respecting the former which Clarges mentioned to
Cooper. With respect to the offer from Bordeaux, he tells us that it was made through Clarges himself,
and scornfully rejected by Monk, who nevertheless consented to receive a visit from Bordeaux, on condition
that the subject should not be mentioned.--Philips, 602, 604. Locke, on the contrary, asserts that
Monk accepted the offer of the French minister; that his wife, through
loyalty to the king, betrayed the secret; and that Cooper put to the
general such searching questions that he was confused, and, in proof of his
fidelity, took away the commissions of several officers of whom the
council was jealous.--Memoirs of Shaftesbury, in Kennet's Register,
86.

Locke, ix, 279.

See note (K).]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1660. March 10.]

and of the property which they had acquired, as the infallible consequences
of the restoration of the royal exile; and they so far wrought on the
fears of the officers, that an engagement to oppose all attempts
to set up a single person was presented[a] to Monk for his signature,
with a request that he would solicit the concurrence of the parliament.

A second council of officers was held the next morning;[b] the general urged the
inexpediency of troubling the house with new questions, when it
was on the point of dissolving itself; and by the address and influence of
his friends, though with considerable difficulty, he procured the suppression
of the obnoxious paper.

In a short time he ordered the several officers to join their respective
regiments, appointed a commission to inspect and reform the different
corps, expelled all the officers whose sentiments he had reason to
distrust, and then demanded and obtained from the army an engagement
to abstain from all interference in matters of state, and to submit
all things to the authority of the new parliament.[1]

Nineteen years
and a half had now elapsed since the long parliament first assembled--years
of revolution and bloodshed, during which the nation had made the
trial of almost every form of government, to return at last to that
form from which it had previously departed.

On the 16th of March, one day later than was originally fixed, its existence,
which had been illegally prolonged since the death of Charles I., was
terminated[c] by its own act.[2] The reader is already acquainted with
its history.
  It was Strether's belief that he had been comparatively innocent before this first
migration, and even that the first effects of the migration would not have been, without some
particular bad accident, to have been deplored.  There had been three months--he had sufficiently
figured it out--in which Chad had wanted to try.  He HAD tried, though not very hard--he had
had his little hour of good faith.  The weakness of this principle in him was that almost any
accident attestedly bad enough was stronger.  Such had at any rate markedly been the case for
the precipitation of a special series of impressions. They had proved, successively, these
impressions--all of Musette and Francine, but Musette and Francine vulgarised by the larger
evolution of the type--irresistibly sharp:  he had "taken up," by what was at the time to be
shrinkingly gathered, as it was scantly mentioned, with one ferociously "interested" little
person after another.  Strether had read somewhere of a Latin motto, a description of the hours,
observed on a clock by a traveller in Spain; and he had been led to apply it in thought to
Chad's number one, number two, number three.  Omnes vulnerant, ultima necat--they had all morally
wounded, the last had morally killed.  The last had been longest in possession--in possession,
that is, of whatever was left of the poor boy's finer mortality. They ravaged Pannonia, routed two
Roman armies, laid Thessaly in waste, and threatened Constantinople. The Emperor Theodosius, A.D.
446, purchased peace by an ignominious tribute, so great as to reduce many leading families to poverty.
"The scourge of God" then turned his steps to the more exhausted
fields of the western provinces, and invaded Gaul.

The Visigoths had there established a kingdom, hostile to the Vandal power. The Huns and the Vandals united,
with all the savage legions which could be collected from Lapland
to the Indus, against the Goths and imperial forces under the command
of Aetius.

"Never," says Thierry, [Footnote: Histoire d'Attilla, vol. i. p. 141] "since the days of Xerxes,
was there such a gathering of nations as now followed the standard of Attila, some five hundred
thousand warriors--Huns, Alans, Gepidae, Neuvi, Geloni, Bastarnae, Heruli, Lombards, Belloniti,
Rugi, some German but chiefly Asiatic tribes, with their long quivers and ponderous lances, and
cuirasses of plaited hair, and scythes, and round bucklers, and short
swords."

This
heterogeneous host, from the Sarmatian plains, and the banks of the Vistula and Niemen, extended
from Basle to the mouth of the Rhine. Attila directed it against Orleans, on the Loire, an important
strategic position. Aetius went to meet him, bringing all the barbaric auxiliaries he could collect--Britons,
Franks, Burgundians, Sueves, Saxons, Visigoths. It was not so much Roman against barbarian, as Europe
against Asia, which was now arrayed upon the plains of Champagne, for Orleans had fallen into the
hands of the Huns.

There, at Chalons, was fought the most decisive and bloody battle of that dreadful age, by which Europe
was delivered from Asia, even as at a later day the Saracens were shut out of France by Charles
Martel. "Bellum atrox, multiplex, immane, pertinax, cui simile nulla usquam narrat antiquitas."
[Footnote: Jordanes.] Attila began the fight; on his left were the Ostrogoths under Vladimir, on
his right were the Gepidae, while in the centre were stationed the
Huns, with their irresistible cavalry.

Aetius stationed the Franks and Burgundians, whose loyalty he doubted,
in the centre, while he strengthened his wings, and assumed the command
of his own left.

The Huns, as expected, made their impetuous charge; the Roman army
was cut in two; but the wings of Aetius overlapped the cavalry of
Attila, and drove back his wings.

Attila was beaten, and Gaul was saved from the Slavonic invaders. It is computed that three
hundred thousand barbarians, on both sides, were slain--the most fearful slaughter recorded in
the whole annals of war. The discomfited king of the Huns led back his forces to the Rhine, ravaging
the cities and villages through which he passed, and collected a new army. The following
year he invaded Italy.

[Sidenote: The Roman general Aetius.]

[Sidenote: Retreat of Attila.]

Aetius alone remained to stem the barbaric hosts. He had won one of the greatest victories of
ancient times, and sought for a reward. And considering the brilliancy of his victory, and the greatness
of his services, the marriage of his son with the princess Eudoxia was not an unreasonable object of
ambition. But his greatness made him unpopular with the debauched court
at Ravenna, and he was left without a sufficient force to stem the
invasion of the Huns.

Aquileia, the most important and strongly fortified city of Northern Italy, for a time stood out
against the attack of the barbarians, but ultimately yielded. Fugitives
from the Venetian territory sought a refuge among the islands which skirt
the northern coast of the Adriatic--the haunts of fishermen and sea-birds.
There Venice was born, which should revive the glory of the West, and write
her history upon the waves for a thousand years.

Attila had spent the spring in his attack on Aquileia, and the summer heats were unfavorable for further
operations, and his soldiers clamored for repose; but, undaunted by the ravages which sickness
produced in his army, he resolved to cross the Apennines and give a
last blow to Rome. Leo again sought the barbarians' camp, and met
with more success than he did with the Vandals. Attila consented to leave
Italy in consideration of an annual tribute, and the promise of the
hand of the princess Honoria, sister of the Emperor Valentinian, who,
years before, in a fit of female spitefulness for having been banished
to Constantinople, had sent her ring as a gage d'amour to the repulsive
barbarian.

He then retired to the Danube by the passes of the Alps, where he spent the winter in bacchanalian
orgies and preparations for an invasion of the eastern provinces. But his career was suddenly cut
off by the avenging poniard of Ildigo, a Bactrian or Burgundian princess, whom he had taken for one
of his numerous wives, and whose relations he had slain.

[Sidenote: Disasters of the Huns.]

On his death, the German tribes refused longer to serve under the divided
rule of his sons, and after a severe contest with the more barbarous
Huns, the empire of Attila disappeared as one of the great powers
of the world, and Italy was delivered forever from this plague of
locusts.

The battle of Netad, in which they suffered a disastrous defeat, was
perhaps as decisive as the battle of Chalons.

They returned to Asia, or else were gradually worn out in unavailing struggles with the Goths.

[Sidenote:
The Avars.]

The Avars, a tribe of the great Turanian race, and kindred to the
Huns, a few years after their retreat, crossed the Danube, established
themselves between that river and the Save, invaded the Greek empire,
and ravaged the provinces almost to the walls of Constantinople.

It would seem from Sheppard that the Avars had migrated from the very
centre of Asia, two thousand miles from the Caspian Sea, fleeing
from the Turks who had reduced them to their sway.

[Footnote: Sheppard, Lect. iv.] In their migration to the West, they
overturned every thing in their way, and spread great alarm at Constantinople.

Justinian, then an old man, A.D. 567, purchased their peace by an
annual tribute and the grant of lands. In 582, the Avar empire was firmly established
on the Danube, and in the valleys of the Balkan. But it was more hostile
to the Slavic tribes, than to the Byzantine Greeks, who then occupied
the centre and southeast of Europe, and who were reduced to miserable
slavery.

With the Franks, the Avars also came in conflict, and, after various
fortunes, were subdued by Charlemagne. Their subsequent history cannot
here be pursued, until they were swept away from the roll of the
European nations.

Moreover, it was not until after the fall of Rome, that they were formidable.

[Sidenote: Final disasters of the empire.]

[Sidenote: Imbecile emperors.]

The real drama of the fall of Rome closes with the second sack of the city by the Vandals, since the
imperial power was nearly prostrated in the West, and shut up within the
walls of Ravenna. But Italy was the scene of great disasters for
twenty years after, until the last of the emperors--Augustulus Romulus;
what a name with which to close the series of Roman emperors!--was
dethroned by Odoacer, chief of the Heruli, a Scythian tribe, and Rome
was again stormed and sacked, A.D. 476.

During these twenty years, the East and the West were finally severed, and Italy was ruled by barbaric
chieftains, and their domination permanently secured. Valentinian,
the last emperor of the race of Theodosius, was assassinated in the
year 455 (at the instigation of the Senator Maximus, of the celebrated
Anician family, whose wife he had violated), a man who had inherited
all the weaknesses of his imperial house, without its virtues, and
under whose detestable reign the people were so oppressed with taxes
and bound down by inquisitions that they preferred the barbarians
to the empire.

The successive reigns of Maximus, Avitus, Majorian, Severus, Anthemius, Olybrius, Glycerius, Nepos,
and Augustulus, nine emperors in twenty--one years, suggests nothing but disorder and revolution.
The murderer of Valentinian reigned but three months, during which Rome was sacked by the Vandals.
Avitus was raised to his vacant throne by the support of the Visigoths
of Gaul, then ruled by Theodoric, a majestic barbarian, and the most
enlightened and civilized of all the leaders of the Gothic hosts who
had yet appeared.

He fought and vanquished the Suevi, who had established themselves
in Spain, in the name of the emperor whom he had placed upon the throne,
but he really ruled on both sides of the Alps, and Avitus was merely
his puppet, and distinguished only for his infamous pleasures, although,
as a general, he had once saved the empire from the Huns.

[Sidenote: Last days of Rome.]

He was in turn deposed by Count Ricimer, a Sueve, and generalissimo of
the Roman armies, and Majorian, whom Ricimer thought to make a tool,
was placed in his stead. But he was an able and good man, and attempted
to revive the traditions of the empire, and met the fate of all reformers
in a hopeless age, doubtless under the influence of Ricimer, who
substituted Severus, a Lucanian, who perished by poison after a reign
of four years, so soon as he became distasteful to the military subordinate,
who was all-powerful at Rome, and who ruled Italy for six years without
an emperor with despotic authority.

During these six years Italy was perpetually ravaged by the Vandals,
who landed and pillaged the coast, and then retired with their booty.
Ricimer, without ships, invoked the aid of the court of Constantinople,
who imposed a Greek upon the throne of Italy. Though a man of great
ability, Anthemius, the new emperor, was unpopular with the Italians
and the barbarians, and he, again, was deposed by Ricimer, and Olybrius,
a senator of the Anician house, reigned in his stead, A.D. 472.

It was then that Rome for the third time was sacked by one of her own
generals. Olybrius reigned but a few months, and Glycerius, captain of his guard,
was selected as his successor--an appointment disagreeable to the
Greek Emperor Leo, who opposed to him Julius Nepos--a distinguished
general, who succeeded in ejecting Glycerius.

The Visigoths, offended, made war upon Roman Gaul. Julius sent against them
Orestes, a Pannonian, called the Patrician, who turned a traitor,
and, on the assassination of Julius, entered Ravenna in triumph.
His son, christened Romulus, the soldiers elevated upon a shield and
saluted Augustus; but as he was too small to wear the purple robe, they
called him Augustulus--a bitter mockery, recalling the battle of
Actium, and the foundation of Rome.

He was the last of the Caesars. It was easier to make an emperor than keep him in his place. The bands of Orestes clamored
for lands equal to a third of Italy. Orestes hesitated, and refused the demand. The soldiers were
united under Odoacer--chief of the Heruli, a general in the service of the Patrician--one of
the boldest and most unscrupulous of those mercenaries who lent their arms in the service of the government
of Ravenna. The. standard of revolt was raised, and the barbarian
army marched against their former master.

Leaving his son in Ravenna, Orestes, himself an able general trained in the service of Attila, went forth
to meet his enemy on the Lombard plains. Unable to make a stand, he shut himself up in Pavia, which
was taken and sacked, and Orestes put to death. The barbarians then marched to Ravenna, which
they took, with the boy who wore the purple, who was not slain as
his father was, but pensioned with six thousand crowns, and sent to
a Campanian villa, which once belonged to Sulla and Lucullus.

The throne of the Caesars was hopelessly subverted, and Odoacer was
king of Italy, and portioned out its lands to his greedy followers,
A.D. 476.

He was not unworthy of his high position,
but his kingdom was in a sad state of desolation, and after a reign
of fourteen years he was in turn supplanted by the superior genius
of Theodoric, king of the Ostrogoths, under whom a new era dawned
upon Italy and the West, A.D. 490.

[Sidenote: Dismemberment of the empire.]

The Roman empire was now dismembered, and the various tribes of barbarians,
after a contest of two hundred years were fairly settled in its provinces.

[Sidenote:
The settlement of the Ostrogoths in Italy.]

In Italy we find the
Ostrogoths as a dominant power, who, migrating from the mouth of the
Danube, with all the barbarians they could enlist under the standard
of Theodoric, prevailed over Odoacer, and settled in Italy.

The Gothic kingdom was assailed afterward by Belisarius and Narses, the great generals of Justinian,
also by the Lombards under Alboin, who maintained themselves in the north of Italy.

[Sidenote: The settlement of the franks in Gaul.]

Gaul was divided among the Franks, the Burgundians, and the Visigoths, whose perpetual wars, and whose
infant kingdom, it is not my object to present.

[Sidenote: The settlement of the Saxons in Britain.]

Britain was possessed by the Saxons, Spain by the Vandals, Suevi, and Visigoths, and Africa by the Vandals,
while the whole eastern empire fell into the hands of the Saracens, except Constantinople, which
preserved the treasures of Greek and Roman civilization, until the
barbarians, elevated by the Christian religion, were prepared to ingraft
it upon their own rude laws and customs.

It would be interesting to trace the various fortunes of these Teutonic
tribes in the devastated provinces which they possessed by conquest.
But this would lead us into a boundless field, foreign to our inquiry.
It is the fall of Rome, not the reconstruction by the new races,
which I seek to present.

It would also
be interesting to survey the old capital of the world in the hands of her various
masters, pillaged and sacked by all in turn; but her doom was sealed
when Alaric entered the gates which had been closed for six hundred
years to a foreign enemy, and the empire fell, virtually, when the
haughty city, so long a queen among the nations, yielded up her palaces
as spoil.

The eastern empire had a longer life, but it was inglorious when
Rome was no longer the superior city.

[Sidenote: Reflections on the fall of the empire.]

The story of the fall of the grandest empire ever erected on our earth
is simple and impressive.

Genius, energy, and patience led to vast possessions, which were retained by a uniform policy which
nothing could turn aside. Prosperity and success led to boundless self-exaggeration
and a depreciation of enemies, while the vices of self-interest undermined
gradually all real strength. Society became utterly demoralized and
weakened, and there were no conservative forces sufficiently, strong
to hold it together. Vitality was destroyed by disproportionate fortunes,
by slavery, by the extinction of the middle classes, by the degradation
of woman, by demoralizing excitements, by factitious life, by imperial
misrule, by proconsular tyranny, by enervating vices, by the absence
of elevated sentiments, by an all- engrossing abandonment to money-making
and the pleasures it procured, so that no lofty appeal could be made
to which the degenerate people would listen, or which they could understand.

The empire was rotten to the core--was steeped in selfishness, sensuality, and frivolity, and the poison pervaded
all classes and orders, and descended to the extremities of the social system. What could be done?
There was no help from man. The empire was on the verge of dissolution when the barbarians came. They
only gave a shock and hastened the fall.

The empire was ripe fruit, to be plucked by the strongest hand.

Three centuries earlier a brave resistance would have been' made, and the
barbarians would have been overthrown and annihilated or sold as slaves.
But they were now the stronger, even with their rude weapons, and without the
arts of war which the Romans had been learning for a thousand years.

Yet they suffered prodigious losses before they became ultimately victorious.
But they persevered, driven by necessity as well as the love of adventure
and rapine.

Wave after wave was rolled back by desperate generals; but the tide returned,
and swept all away.

Fortunately, they reconstructed after they had once destroyed. They were
converts of Christianity, and had sympathy with many elements of
civilization.

"Some solitary sparks fell from the beautiful world that was passed
upon the night of their labors."

These kindled a fire which has never been extinguished. They had, with all
their barbarism, some great elements of character, and in all the
solid qualities of the heart, were superior to the races they subdued.
They brought their fresh blood into the body politic, and were alive
to sentiments of religion, patriotism, and love.

They were enthusiastic, hopeful, generous, and uncontaminated by those
subtle vices which ever lead to ruin. They made innumerable mistakes,
and committed inexcusable follies.

But, after a long pilgrimage, and severely disciplined by misfortunes,
they erected a new fabric, established by the beautiful union of German
strength and Roman art, on the more solid foundations of Christian
truth.

* * * * *

The authorities for this chapter are not numerous. They are the historians
of the empire in its decline and miseries. Gibbon's history is doubtless
the best in English.

He may be compared with Tillemont's Hist, des Emperors. Sheppard has written
an interesting and instructing book on this period, but it pertains
especially to the rise of the new barbaric states. Tacitus' chapter
on the Manners of the Germans should be read in connection with the
wars. Gibbon quotes largely from Ammianus Marcellinus, who is the
best Latin historian of the last days of Rome.

Zosimus is an authority, but he is brief. Procopius wrote a history of the
Vandal wars. Gregory of Tours describes the desolations in Gaul, as
well as Journandes. The writings of Jerome, Augustine, and other fathers, allude
somewhat to the miseries and wickedness of the times. But of all the
writers on this dark and gloomy period, Gibbon is the most satisfactory
and exhaustive; nor is it probable he will soon be supplanted in a
field so dreary and sad.

[Sidenote: Nothing conservative in mere human creation.]

It is a most interesting inquiry why art, literature, science, philosophy,
and political organizations, and other trophies of the unaided reason
of man, did not prevent so mournful an eclipse of human glory as
took place upon the fall of the majestic empire of the Romans.

There can be no question that civilization achieved most splendid triumphs,
even under the influence of pagan institutions.

But it was not paganism which achieved these victories; it was the
will and the reason of a noble race, in spite of its withering effects.

It was the proud
reason of man which soared to such lofty heights, and attempted to secure
happiness and prosperity.

These great ends were measurably attained, and a self-sufficient philosopher
might have pointed to these victories as both glorious and permanent. When
the eyes of contemporaries rested on the beautiful and cultivated face of nature,
on commerce and ships, on military successes and triumphs, on the glories
of heroes and generals, on a subdued world, on a complicated mechanism
of social life, on the blazing wonders of art, on the sculptures and pictures,
the temples and monuments which ornamented every part of the empire,
when they reflected on the bright theories which philosophy proposed,
on the truths which were incorporated with the system of jurisprudence,
on the wondrous constitution which the experience of ages had framed,
on the genius of poets and historians, on the whole system of social
life, adorned with polished manners and the graces of genial intercourse--when
they saw that all these triumphs had been won over barbarism, and had been
constantly progressing with succeeding generations, it seemed that
the reign of peace and prosperity would be perpetual.

It is nothing to the point whether the civilization of which all people boasted, and in which they trusted,
was superior or inferior to that which has subsequently been achieved
by the Gothic races. The question is, Did these arts and sciences
produce an influence sufficiently strong to conserve society? That they
polished and adorned individuals cannot be questioned. Did they infuse
life into the decaying mass? Did they prolong political existence? Did they
produce valor and moral force among the masses? Did they raise a bulwark
capable of resisting human degeneracy or barbaric violence? Did they
lead to self- restraint?

Did they create a lofty public sentiment which scorned baseness and lies?
Did they so raise the moral tone of society that people were induced
to make sacrifices and noble efforts to preserve blessings which
had already been secured.

[Sidenote: Civilisation can only rise to a certain height by unabled
reason.]

I have to show that the grandest empire of antiquity perished from
the same causes which destroyed Babylon and Carthage; that all the
magnificent trophies of the intellect were in vain; that the sources
of moral renovation were poisoned; that nothing worked out, practically
and generally, the good which was intended, and which enthusiasts
had hoped; that the very means of culture were perverted, and that
the savor unto life became a savor unto death.

In short, it will appear from the example of Rome, that man cannot
save himself; that he cannot originate any means of conservation which
will not be foiled and rendered nugatory by the force of human corruption;
that man, left to himself, will defeat his own purposes, and that
all his enterprises and projects will end in shame and humiliation,
so far as they are intended to preserve society.

The history of all the pagan races and countries show that only a
limited height can ever be reached, and that society is destined to
perpetual falls as well as triumphs, and would move on in circles
forever, where no higher aid comes than from man himself.

And this great truth is so forcibly borne out by facts, that those profound and learned historians
who are skeptical of the power of Christianity, have generally embraced
the theory that nations must rise and fall to the end of time; and
society will show, like the changes of nature, only phases which have
appeared before.

Their gloomy theories remind us of the perpetual swinging of a pendulum, or the endless labors of Ixion--
circles and cycles of motion, but no general and universal progress
to a perfect state of happiness and prosperity.

And if we were not supported by the hopes which Christianity furnishes,
if we adopted the pagan principles of Gibbon or Buckle, history
would only confirm the darkest theories.

But the history of Greece and Rome and Egypt are only chapters in the great
work which Providence unfolds. They are only acts in the great drama
of universal life. Baited it could properly be called when
the repast was of so wise a savour, and gilded surrounding objects seemed inevitably to need
to be when Miss Barrace--which was the lady's name--looked at them with convex Parisian eyes
and through a glass with a remarkably long tortoise-shell handle.  Why Miss Barrace, mature
meagre erect and eminently gay, highly adorned, perfectly familiar, freely contradictions and
reminding him of some last-century portrait of a clever head without powder--why Miss Barrace
should have been in particular the note of a "trap" Strether couldn't on the spot have explained;
he blinked in the light of a conviction that he should know later on, and know well--as it
came over him, for that matter, with force, that he should need to.  He wondered what he was
to think exactly of either of his new friends; since the young man, Chad's intimate and deputy,
had, in thus constituting the scene, practised so much more subtly than he had been prepared
for, and since in especial Miss Barrace, surrounded clearly by every consideration, hadn't
scrupled to figure as a familiar object.  It was interesting to him to feel that he was in
the presence of new measures, other standards, a different scale of relations, and that evidently
here were a happy pair who didn't think of things at all as he and Waymarsh thought.  Nothing
was less to have been calculated in the business than that it should now be for him as if he
and Waymarsh were comparatively quite at one.

The latter was magnificent--this at least was an assurance privately given him by Miss Barrace.
"Oh your friend's a type, the grand old American--what shall one call it? The Hebrew prophet,
Ezekiel, Jeremiah, who used when I was a little girl in the Rue Montaigne to come to see my
father and who was usually the American Minister to the Tuileries or some other court.  I haven't
seen one these ever so many years; the sight of it warms my poor old chilled heart; this specimen
is wonderful; in the right quarter, you know, he'll have a succes fou." Strether hadn't failed
to ask what the right quarter might be, much as he required his presence of mind to meet such
a change in their scheme. "Oh the artist-quarter and that kind of thing; HERE already, for
instance, as you see."  He had been on the point of echoing "'Here'?--is THIS the artist-quarter?"
but she had already disposed of the question with a wave of all her tortoise-shell and an easy
"Bring him to ME!"  He knew on the spot how little he should be able to bring him, for the
very air was by this time, to his sense, thick and hot with poor Waymarsh's judgement of it.
He was in the trap still more than his companion and, unlike his companion, not making the
best of it; which was precisely what doubtless gave him his admirable sombre glow.  Little
did Miss Barrace know that what was behind it was his grave estimate of her own laxity. The
general assumption with which our two friends had arrived had been that of finding Mr. Bilham
ready to conduct them to one or other of those resorts of the earnest, the aesthetic fraternity
which were shown among the sights of Paris.  In this character it would have justified them
in a proper insistence on discharging their score.  Waymarsh's only proviso at the last had
been that nobody should pay for him; but he found himself, as the occasion developed, paid
for on a scale as to which Strether privately made out that he already nursed retribution.
Strether was conscious across the table of what worked in him, conscious when they passed back
to the small salon to which, the previous evening, he himself had made so rich a reference;
conscious most of all as they stepped out to the balcony in which one would have had to be
an ogre not to recognise the perfect place for easy aftertastes.  These things were enhanced
for Miss Barrace by a succession of excellent cigarettes--acknowledged, acclaimed, as a part
of the wonderful supply left behind him by Chad--in an almost equal absorption of which Strether
found himself blindly, almost wildly pushing forward.  He might perish by the sword as well
as by famine, and he knew that his having abetted the lady by an excess that was rare with
him would count for little in the sum--as Waymarsh might so easily add it up--of her licence.
Waymarsh had smoked of old, smoked hugely; but Waymarsh did nothing now, and that gave him
his advantage over people who took things up lightly just when others had laid them heavily
down.  Strether had never smoked, and he felt as if he flaunted at his friend that this had
been only because of a reason.  The reason, it now began to appear even to himself, was that
he had never had a lady to smoke with.

It was this lady's being there at all, however, that was the strange free thing; perhaps, since
she WAS there, her smoking was the least of her freedoms.  If Strether had been sure at each
juncture of what--with Bilham in especial--she talked about, he might have traced others and
winced at them and felt Waymarsh wince; but he was in fact so often at sea that his sense of
the range of reference was merely general and that he on several different occasions guessed
and interpreted only to doubt.  He wondered what they meant, but there were things he scarce
thought they could be supposed to mean, and "Oh no--not THAT!" was at the end of most of his
ventures.  This was the very beginning with him of a condition as to which, later on, it will
be seen, he found cause to pull himself up; and he was to remember the moment duly as the first
step in a process.  The central fact of the place was neither more nor less, when analysed--and
a pressure superficial sufficed--than the fundamental impropriety of Chad's situation, round
about which they thus seemed cynically clustered. Accordingly, since they took it for granted,
they took for granted all that was in connexion with it taken for granted at Woollett--matters
as to which, verily, he had been reduced with Mrs. Newsome to the last intensity of silence.
That was the consequence of their being too bad to be talked about, and was the accompaniment,
by the same token, of a deep conception of their badness.  It befell therefore that when poor
Strether put it to himself that their badness was ultimately, or perhaps even insolently, what
such a scene as the one before him was, so to speak, built upon, he could scarce shirk the
dilemma of reading a roundabout echo of them into almost anything that came up.  This, he was
well aware, was a dreadful necessity; but such was the stern logic, he could only gather, of
a relation to the irregular life.

It was the way the irregular life sat upon Bilham and Miss Barrace that was the insidious,
the delicate marvel.  He was eager to concede that their relation to it was all indirect, for
anything else in him would have shown the grossness of bad manners; but the indirectness was
none the less consonant--THAT was striking-with a grateful enjoyment of everything that was
Chad's.  They spoke of him repeatedly, invoking his good name and good nature, and the worst
confusion of mind for Strether was that all their mention of him was of a kind to do him honour.
They commended his munificence and approved his taste, and in doing so sat down, as it seemed
to Strether, in the very soil out of which these things flowered.  Our friend's final predicament
was that he himself was sitting down, for the time, WITH them, and there was a supreme moment
at which, compared with his collapse, Waymarsh's erectness affected him as really high.  One
thing was certain--he saw he must make up his mind.  He must approach Chad, must wait for him,
deal with him, master him, but he mustn't dispossess himself of the faculty of seeing things
as they were.  He must bring him to HIM--not go himself, as it were, so much of the way.  He
must at any rate be clearer as to what--should he continue to do that for convenience--he was
still condoning.  It was on the detail of this quantity--and what could the fact be but mystifying?-that
Bilham and Miss Barrace threw so little light.  So there they were.

II

When Miss Gostrey arrived, at the end of a week, she made him a sign; he went immediately to
see her, and it wasn't till then that he could again close his grasp on the idea of a corrective.
This idea however was luckily all before him again from the moment he crossed the threshold
of the little entresol of the Quartier Marboeuf into which she had gathered, as she said, picking
them up in a thousand flights and funny little passionate pounces, the makings of a final nest.
He recognised in an instant that there really, there only, he should find the boon with the
vision of which he had first mounted Chad's stairs. He might have been a little scared at the
picture of how much more, in this place, he should know himself "in" hadn't his friend been
on the spot to measure the amount to his appetite.  Her compact and crowded little chambers,
almost dusky, as they at first struck him, with accumulations, represented a supreme general
adjustment to opportunities and conditions.  Wherever he looked he saw an old ivory or an old
brocade, and he scarce knew where to sit for fear of a misappliance.  The life of the occupant
struck him of a sudden as more charged with possession even than Chad's or than Miss Barrace's;
wide as his glimpse had lately become of the empire of "things," what was before him still
enlarged it; the lust of the eyes and the pride of life had indeed thus their temple.  It was
the innermost nook of the shrine--as brown as a pirate's cave. I sees too many married troubles to
mess up with such doings!

Sometimes the master sent me alone to the grinding mill.

Load in the yellow corn, hitch in the oxen, I was ready to go.

I gets me fixed up with a pass and takes to the road.

That was the trip I like best.

On the way was a still. Off in the bresh. If the still was lonely I stop, not
on the way to but on the way back. Mighty good whiskey, too!

Maybe I drinks too much, then I was sorry.

Not that I swipe the whiskey, just sorry because I gets sick! Then I figures
a woods camp meeting will steady me up and I goes.

The preacher meet me and want to know how is my feelings. I says I is
low with the misery and he say to join up with the Lord.

I never join because he don't talk about the Lord. Just about the Master and Mistress. How the slaves
must obey around the plantation--how the white folks know what is
good for the slaves.

Nothing about obeying the Lord and working for him.

I reckon the old preacher was worrying more about the bull whip than he
was the Bible, else he say something about the Lord! But I always
obeys the Lord--that's why I is still living!

The slaves would pray for to get out of bondage.

Some of them say the Lord told them to run away. Get to the North. Cross
the Red River. Over there would be folks to guide them to the Free
State (Kansas).

The Lord never tell me to run away.

I never
tried it, maybe, because mostly they was caught by patrollers and
fetched back for a flogging--and I had whippings enough already!

Before the Civil War was the fighting with Mexico.

Some of the troops on they way south passed on the Military Road. Wasn't
any fighting around Linden or Jefferson during the time.

They was lots of traveling on the Military Road. Most of the time you could
see covered wagons pulled by mules and horses, and sometimes a crawling
string of wagons with oxen on the pulling end.

From up in Arkansas come the stage coach along the road. To San Antonio.
The drivers bring news the Mexicans just about all killed off and
the white folks say Texas was going to join the Union.

The country's
going to be run different they say, but I never see no difference. Maybe,
because I ain't white folks.

Wasn't many Mexicans around the old plantation.

Come and go. Lots of Indians. Cherokees and Choctaws. Living in mud
huts and cabin shacks.

I never see them bother the whites, it was the other way around.

During
the Civil War, when the Red River was bank high with muddy water,
the Yankee's made a target of Jefferson.

That was a small town down south of Linden.

Down the river come a flat barge with cannon fastened to the deck. The Yankee
soldiers stopped across the river from Jefferson and the shooting
started.

When the cannon went to popping the folks went arunning--hard to tell
who run the fastest, the whites or the blacks!

Almost the town was wiped out.

Buildings was smashed and big trees cut through with the cannon balls.

Before

the Civil War everybody had money. The white folks, not the negroes. Sometimes
the master take me to the town stores.

They was full of money.

Cigar boxes on the counter, boxes on the shelf, all filled with money.
Not the crinkley paper kind, but hard, jingley gold and silver!

Not like these scarce times!

After the War I stay on the plantation 'til a soldier man tells me
of the freedom.

The master never tell us--negroes working just like before the War.

That's
when I leave the first time.

Slip off, saying nothing, to Jefferson. There I found some good white
folks going to New Orleans. First place we go is Shreveport, by wagon.
They took me because I fix up with them to do the cooking.

On to the Big River (Mississippi) and boards a river steamboat for New
Orleans.

Lots of negroes going down there--to work on the canal.

The whole town was built on logs covered with dirt.

Trying to raise itself right out of the swamp. Sometimes the water
get high and folks run for the hills. When I got there almost was
I ready to leave.

I like Texas the best. Back to Jefferson is where I go. Fifteen-twenty
mile below Linden.

Almost the first person I see was Master Davenport.

He says, "Black rascal, you is coming with me." And I do. He tried to keep his slaves and just laugh when
I tell him about the freedom.

I worked for food and quarters 'til his meanness come cropping out again.

That
wasn't long and he threatened me with the whip and the buck and gag.

The buck and gag was maybe worse.

I got to feeling that iron stick in my mouth, fastened around my head
with chains, pressing hard on my tongue.

No drinking, no eating, no talking!

So I slip off again. That night I goes through Linden. Crawling on my hands and knees! Keeping in the
dark spots, hiding from the whites, 'til I pass the last house, then
my feets hurries me to Jefferson, where I gets a ride to Arkansas.

In Russelville is where I stop.

There I worked around in the yards, cutting the grass, fancying the
flower beds, and earned a little money for clothes and eats, with
some of it spent for good whiskey.

That was the reason I left Arkansas. Whiskey.

The law got after me to tell where was a man's whiskey still.

I just leave so's I won't have to tell.

But while I was making a little money in Russelville, I lose out on some
big money, account some white folks beat me to it.

I was out in the hills west of town, walking along the banks of a little
creek, when I heard a voice.

Queer like. I called out who is that talking and I hears it again.

"Go to the white oak tree and you will find Ninety Thousand Dollars!"

That's what I hear. I look around, nobody in sight, but I see the
tree. A big white oak tree standing taller than all the rest 'round about.

Under
the tree was a grave. An old grave. I scratch around but finds no money
and thinks of getting some help.

I done some work for a white man in town and told him about the voice.

He promised to go with me, but the next day he took two white mens
and dug around the tree. Then he says they was nothing to find.

To this day I know better. I know wherever they's a ghost, money
is around someplace! That's what the ghost comes back for.

Somebody dies and leaves buried money. The ghost watches over it 'til
it sees somebody it likes. Then ghost shows himself--lets know he's
around. Sometimes the ghost tells where is the money buried, like
that time at Russelville.

That ain't the only ghost I've seen or heard. I see one around the
yard where I is living now. A woman. Some of these times she'll tell
me where the buried money is.

Maybe the ghost woman thinks I is too old to dig. But I been a-digging
all these long years.

For a bite to eat and a sleep-under cover.

I reckon pretty soon she's going to tell where to dig. When she does,
then old Uncle John won't have to dig for the eats no more!

Tulsa, Okla.

Iffen I could see better out'n my old eyes, and I had me something
to work with and de feebleness in my back and head would let me 'lone,
I would have me plenty to eat in de kitchen all de time, and plenty
tobaccy in my pipe, too, bless God!

And dey wouldn't be no rain trickling through de holes in de roof,
and no planks all fell out'n de flo' on de gallery neither, 'cause
dis one old nigger knows everything about making all he need to git
along!

Old Master done showed him how to git along in dis world, jest as long
as he live on a plantation, but living in de town is a different
way of living, and all you got to have is a silver dime to lay down
for everything you want, and I don't git de dime very often.

But I aint give up!

Nothing like dat! On de days when I don't feel so feeble and trembly
I jest keep patching 'round de place. I got to keep patching so as to keep
it whar it will hold de winter out, in case I git to see another winter.

Iffen
I don't, it don't grieve me none, 'cause I wants to see old Master
again anyways.

I reckon maybe I'll jest go up an ask him what he want me to do, and
he'll tell me, and iffen I don't know how he'll show me how, and I'll
try to do it to please him.

And when I git it done I wants to hear him grumble like he used to and
say, "Charley, you ain't got no sense but you is a good boy. Dis here ain't
very good but it'll do, I reckon. Git yourself a little piece o' dat
brown sugar, but don't let no niggers see you eating it--if you do I'll
whup your black behind!"

Dat ain't de way it going be in Heaven, I reckon, but I can't set here on dis old rottendy gallery
and think of no way I better like to have it!

I was a great big hulking buck of a boy when de War come along and
bust up everything, and I can 'member back when everybody was living
peaceful and happy, and nobody never had no notion about no war.

I was borned on the 'leventh of January, in 1843, and was old enough to vote when I got my freedom, but I didn't
take no stock in all dat politics and goings on at dat time, and I
didn't vote till a long time after old Master passed away, but I was
big enough before de War to remember everything pretty plain.

Old Master name was John Williams, and old Mistress name was Miss Betty,
and she was a Campbell before she married.

Young Missy was named Betty after her mommy, and Young Master was named Frank,
but I don't know who after. Our overseer was Mr. Simmons, and he was
mighty smart and had a lot of patience, but he wouldn't take no talk
nor foolishness.

He didn't whup nobody very often, but he only had to whup 'em jest
one time!

He never did whup a nigger at de time the nigger done something, but he would wait till evening and have
old Master come and watch him do it. He never whupped very hard 'cept when he had told a nigger about
something and promised a whupping next time and the nigger done it
again.

Then that nigger got what he had been hearing 'bout!

De plantation was about as big as any. I think it had about three hundred acres, and it was about two
miles northwest of Monroe, Louisiana. Then he had another one not
so big, two--three miles south of the big one, kind of down in the
woodsy part along the White river bottoms.

He had another overseer on that place and a big passel of niggers,
but I never did go down to that one.

That
was where he raised most of his corn and shoats, and lots of sorghum
cane.

Our plantation was up on higher ground, and it was more open country,
but still they was lots of woods all around and lots of the plantations
had been whacked right out of de new ground and was full of stumps.

Master's place was more open, though, and all in the fields was
good plowing.

The big road runned right along past our plantation, and it come from
Shreveport and run into Monroe.

There wasn't any town at Monroe in them days, jest a little cross roads
place with a general store and a big hide house.

I think there was about two big hide houses, and you could smell that place a mile before you got into it.
Old Master had a part in de store, I think.

De hide houses was jest long sheds, all open along de sides and kivered
over wid cypress clapboards.

Down below de hide houses and de store was jest a little settlement of one or two houses, but they was a school
for white boys.

Somebody said there was a place where they had been an old fort, but
I never did see it.

Everything boughten we got come from Shreveport, and was brung in
by the stage and the freighters, and that was only a little coffee
or gunpowder, or some needles for the sewing, or some strap iron for
the blacksmith, or something like dat.

We made and raised everything else we needed right on the place.

I never did even see any quinine till after I was free. My mammy knowed jest what root to go out and pull
up to knock de chills right out'n me. And de bellyache and de running
off de same way, too.

Our plantation was a lot different from some I seen other places, like way east of
there, around Vicksburg. Some of them was fixed up fancier but dey
didn't have no more comforts than we had.

Old Master come out into that country when he was a young man, and they
didn't have even so much then as they had when I was a boy.

I think he come from Alabama or Tennessee, and way back his people
had come from Virginia, or maybe North Carolina, 'cause he knowed
all about tobacco on the place. Cotton and tobacco was de long crops on his
big place, and of course lots of horses and cattle and mules.

De big house was made out'n square hewed logs, and chinked wid little rocks and daubed wid white
clay, and kivered wid cypress clapboards.

I remember one time we put on a new roof, and de niggers hauled up
de cypress logs and sawed dem and frowed out de clapboards by hand.

De
house had two setting rooms on one side and a big kitchen room on de other,
wid a wide passage in between, and den about was de sleeping rooms.
They wasn't no stairways 'cepting on de outside. Steps run up to de sleeping
rooms on one side from de passageway and on de other side from clean
outside de house.

Jest one big chimbley was all he had, and it was on de kitchen end,
and we done all de cooking in a fireplace dat was purty nigh as wide
as de whole room.

In de sleeping rooms day wasn't no fires 'cepting in brazers made out of
clay, and we toted up charcoal to burn in 'em when it was cold mornings
in de winter. Dey kept warm wide de bed clothes and de knitten clothes
dey had.

Master never did make a big gallery on de house, but our white folks
would set out in de yard under de big trees in de shade. They was long
benches made out'n hewed logs and all padded wid gray moss and corn
shuck padding, and dey set pretty soft.

All de furniture in de house was home-made, too. De beds had square posts as big around as my shank
and de frame was mortised into 'em, and holes bored in de frame and
home-made rope laced in to make it springy. Den a great big mattress
full of goose feathers and two--three comforts as thick as my foot
wid carded wool inside!

Dey didn't need no fireplaces!

De quarters was a little piece from de big house, and dey run along
both sides of de road dat go to de fields. All one-room log cabins,
but dey was good and warm, and every one had a little open shed at
de side whar we sleep in de summer to keep cool.

They was two or three wells at de quarters for water, and some good
springs in de branch at de back of de fields.

You could ketch a fish now and den in dat branch, but Young Master used to do his fishing in White River,
and take a nigger or two along to do de work at his camp.

It wasn't very fancy at de Big House, but it was mighty pretty jest
de same, wid de gray moss hanging from de big trees, and de cool
green grass all over de yard, and I can shet my old eyes and see it
jest like it was before de War come along and bust it up.

I can see old Master setting out under a big tree smoking one of his
long cheroots his tobacco nigger made by hand, and fanning hisself
wid his big wide hat another nigger platted out'n young inside corn
shucks for him, and I can hear him holler at a big bunch of white
geeses what's gitting in his flower beds and see 'em string off behind
de old gander towards de big road.

When de day begin to crack de whole plantation break out wid all kinds
of noises, and you could tell what going on by de kind of noise you
hear.

Come de daybreak you hear de guinea fowls start potracking down at
de edge of de woods lot, and den de roosters all start up 'round
de barn and de ducks finally wake up and jine in.

You can
smell de sow belly frying down at the cabins in de "row", to go wid de
hoecake and de buttermilk.

Den purty soon de wind rise a little, and you can hear a old bell donging way
on some plantation a mile or two off, and den more bells at other places and
maybe a horn, and purty soon younder go old Master's old ram horn
wid a long toot and den some short toots, and here come de overseer
down de row of cabins, hollering right and left, and picking de ham
out'n his teeth wid a long shiny goose quill pick.

Bells and horns! Bells for dis and horns for dat! All we knowed was
go and come by de bells and horns!

Old ram horn blow to send us all to de field. We all line up, about seventy-five
field niggers, and go by de tool shed and git our hoes, or maybe go hitch up
de mules to de plows and lay de plows out on de side so de overseer
can see iffen de points is shart. Any plow gits broke or de point
gits bungled up on de rocks it goes to de blacksmith nigger, den
we all git on down in de field.

Den de anvil start dangling in de blacksmith shop: "Tank! Deling-ding!
Tank!

Deling-ding!", and dat ole bull tongue gitting straightened
out!

Course you can't hear de shoemaker awling and pegging, and de card
spinners, and de old mammy sewing by hand, but maybe you can hear
de old loom going "frump, frump", and you know it all right iffen your
clothes do be wearing out, 'cause you gwine git new britches purty
soon!

We had about a hundred niggers on dat place, young and old, and about
twenty on de little place down below. We could make about every kind
of thing but coffee and gunpowder dat our whitefolks and us needed.

When we needs a hat we gits inside cornshucks and weave one out, and
makes horse collars de same way. Jest tie two little soft shucks together
and begin plaiting.

All de cloth 'cepting de Mistress' Sunday dresses come from de sheep to
de carders and de spinners and de weaver, den we dye it wid "butternut"
and hickory bark and indigo and other things and set it wid copperas.

Leather tanned on
de place made de shoes, and I never see a store boughten wagon wheel 'cepting
among de stages and de freighters along de big road.

We made purty, long back-combs out'n cow horn, and knitting needles out'n second
hickory. Split a young hickory and put in a big wedge to prize it open,
then cut it down and let it season, and you got good bent grain for
wagon hames and chair rockers and such.

It was jest like dat until I was grown, and den one day come a neighbor man and say we
in de War.

Little while young Master Frank ride over to Vicksburg and jine de
Sesesh army, but old Master jest go on lak nothing happen, and we
all don't hear nothing more until long come some Sesesh soldiers and
take most old Master's hosses and all his wagons.

I bin working on de tobacco, and when I come back to de barns everything
was gone. I would go into de woods and git good hickory and burn it
till it was all coals and put it out wid water to make hickory charcoal
for curing de tobacco. I had me some charcoal in de fire trenches
under de curing houses, all full of new tobacco, and overseer come
and say bundle all de tobacco up and he going take it to Shreveport
and sell it befo' de soldiers take it too.

After de hosses all gone
and most de cattle and de cotton and de tobacco gone too, here come
de Yankees and spread out all over de whole country. Dey had a big
camp down below our plantation.

One evening a big bunch of Yankee
officers come up to de Big House and old Master set out de brandy
in de yard and dey act purty nice. Next day de whole bunch leave on
out of dat part.

When de hosses and stuff all go old Master sold
all de slaves but about four, but he kept my pappy and mammy and my
brother Jimmie and my sister Betty. She was named after old Mistress.
Pappy's name was Charley and mammy's was Sally. De niggers he kept
didn't have much work without any hosses and wagons, but de blacksmith
started in fixing up more wagons and he kept them hid in de woods
till they was all fixed.

Den along come some more Yankees, and dey
tore everything we had up, and old Master was afeared to shoot at
them on account his womenfolks, so he tried to sneak the fambly out
but they kotched him and brung him back to de plantation.

We niggers
didn't know dat he was gone until we seen de Yankees bringing dem
back. De Yankees had done took charge of everything and was camping
in de big yard, and us was all down at de quarters scared to death,
but dey was jest letting us alone.

It was night when de white folks
tried to go away, and still night when de Yankees brung dem back,
and a house nigger come down to de quarters wid three--four mens in
blue clothes and told us to come up to de Big House.

De Yankees didn't
seem to be mad wid old Master, but jest laughed and talked wid him,
but he didn't take de jokes any too good.

Den dey asked him could
he dance and he said no, and dey told him to dance or make us dance.
Dar he stood inside a big ring of dem mens in blue clothes, wid dey
brass buttons shining in de light from de fire dey had in front of
de tents, and he jest stood and said nothing, and it look lak he wasn't
wanting to tell us to dance.

So some of us young bucks jest step
up and say we was good dancers, and we start shuffling while de rest
of de niggers pat.

Some nigger women go back to de quarters and git
de gourd fiddles and de clapping bones made out'n beef ribs, and bring
dem back so we could have some music. We git all warmed up and dance
lak we never did dance befo'! I speck we invent some new steps dat
night!

We act lak we dancing for de Yankees, but we trying to please
Master and old Mistress more than anything, and purty soon he begin
to smile a little and we all feel a lot better.

Next day de Yankees
move on away from our place, and old Master start gitting ready to
move out. We git de wagons we hid, and de whole passel of us leaves
out for Shreveport. Jest left de old place standing like it was.

In
Shreveport old Master git his cotton and tobacco money what he been
afraid to have sent back to de plantation when he sell his stuff,
and we strike out north through Arkansas.

Dat was de awfullest trip
any man ever make! We had to hide from everybody until we find out
if dey Yankees or Sesesh, and we go along little old back roads and
up one mountain and down another, through de woods all de way.

After
a long time we git to the Missouri line, and kind of cut off through
de corner of dat state into Kansas. I don't know how we ever git across
some of dem rivers but we did. Dey nearly always would be some soldiers
around de fords, and dey would help us find de best crossing. Sometimes
we had to unload de wagons and dry out de stuff what all got wet,
and camp a day or two to fix up again.

Purty soon we git to Fort
Scott, and that was whar de roads forked ever whichaways.

This already sounded almost like a hope destroyed.  "Through whom else then?"

"That's what we shall see!"  But quite as she spoke she turned, and Strether turned; for the
door of the box had opened, with the click of the ouvreuse,  from the lobby, and a gentleman,
a stranger to them, had come in with a quick step.  The door closed behind him, and, though
their faces showed him his mistake, his air, which was striking, was all good confidence. 
The curtain had just again arisen, and, in the hush of the general attention, Strether's challenge
was tacit, as was also the greeting, with a quickly deprecating hand and smile, of the unannounced
visitor.  He discreetly signed that he would wait, would stand, and these things and his face,
one look from which she had caught, had suddenly worked for Miss Gostrey.  She fitted to them
all an answer for Strether's last question.  The solid stranger was simply the answer--as she
now, turning to her friend, indicated.  She brought it straight out for him--it presented the
intruder.  "Why, through this gentleman!"  The gentleman indeed, at the same time, though sounding
for Strether a very short name, did practically as much to explain. Strether gasped the name
back--then only had he seen Miss Gostrey had said more than she knew.  They were in presence
of Chad himself.

Our friend was to go over it afterwards again and again--he was going over it much of the time
that they were together, and they were together constantly for three or four days:  the note
had been so strongly struck during that first half-hour that everything happening since was
comparatively a minor development.  The fact was that his perception of the young man's identity--so
absolutely checked for a minute--had been quite one of the sensations that count in life; he
certainly had never known one that had acted, as he might have said, with more of a crowded
rush.  And the rush though both vague and multitudinous, had lasted a long time, protected,
as it were, yet at the same time aggravated, by the circumstance of its coinciding with a stretch
of decorous silence. They couldn't talk without disturbing the spectators in the part of the
balcony just below them; and it, for that matter, came to Strether--being a thing of the sort
that did come to him--that these were the accidents of a high civilisation; the imposed tribute
to propriety, the frequent exposure to conditions, usually brilliant, in which relief has to
await its time.  Relief was never quite near at hand for kings, queens, comedians and other
such people, and though you might be yourself not exactly one of those, you could yet, in leading
the life of high pressure, guess a little how they sometimes felt.  It was truly the life of
high pressure that Strether had seemed to feel himself lead while he sat there, close to Chad,
during the long tension of the act.  He was in presence of a fact that occupied his whole mind,
that occupied for the half-hour his senses themselves all together; but he couldn't without
inconvenience show anything--which moreover might count really as luck. [Footnote 176: Major
Albrecht fought his guns with great determination; his infantry escort,
according to Boer accounts, retreated when they saw the advance of
the British, and his ammunition was almost exhausted, but his gunners
stood their ground.]

[Sidenote: Pole-Carew is obliged to fall back to Rosmead.]

[Sidenote: Nov. 28th/99.]

[Sidenote: Lord Methuen being wounded command devolves on Colvile.]

Captain
Forestier-Walker, who was now in action with the section of the 18th
battery near the farm which had been carried earlier in the day by
the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry, vigorously shelled the trees
and brushwood in front of our men as they advanced, but his efforts
were much hampered by the fact that the undergrowth was so thick that
it was impossible to see exactly how far forward they were.

All attempts to establish communication by signal,
between the officer commanding the 9th brigade and the troops on
the south side of the river, failed.

The attack broke down from want of strength to drive it home, and
the baffled troops sullenly fell back to Rosmead.

They were so closely pressed
by the enemy's musketry that, in order to cover the retreat, two
officers, Major H. F. Coleridge, North Lancashire, and Captain T.
Irvine, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, each with ten or eleven
men of different battalions, threw themselves into farmhouses, which
they stubbornly defended until, many hours later, after their detachments
had suffered severe loss, they were ordered to evacuate their posts.

On his return to the village
Major-General Pole-Carew found that the British strength on the north
bank had been increased by the arrival of 300 officers and men of the
Royal engineers, and of part of a company of the 2nd battalion of the
Coldstream Guards. After writing to Lord Methuen to report his failure
to force his way up the right bank, and to ask for co-operation in
the fresh attempt for which he was then rallying his troops, Pole-Carew
heard a rumour that Lord Methuen had been wounded, and that Major-General
Colvile was now in command of the division.

The rumour was true. Lord Methuen had been wounded at about 4 p.m. near the centre of the line, and one
of his staff officers, Colonel H. P. Northcott, had previously fallen mortally wounded, while
conveying orders for the reinforcement of the troops on the north bank. Not long after this news came
in, the officer commanding the two guns of the 18th battery, still
in action near the farm to the south of Rosmead, reported that he
heard through the officer commanding the artillery that Major-General
Colvile had issued orders for a vigorous bombardment of the position
by the artillery till dusk, when the Guards were to attack the left of the
Boer line with the bayonet.

Pole-Carew then considered whether, in view of the projected movement of the Guards' brigade,
his local attack was still feasible. He decided that, owing to the configuration of the ground over
which both bodies of troops would have to move in the darkness, the danger was so great lest his
detachment should enfilade the Guards as to prohibit an advance from Rosmead. All, therefore,
that could be done was to secure firmly that village.

[Sidenote: 62nd battery with four guns arrives after forced march.]

While the little column had been striving in vain to force its way
up the right bank of the river, the situation on the left bank had
remained unchanged.

The infantry lay prone on the ground, engaged in a desultory fire-fight with an unseen enemy,
while the artillery continued to shell the buildings and the river-banks near the railway bridge.
During the course of the afternoon Colonel Hall, commanding the artillery, had received a welcome
reinforcement of four guns of the 62nd battery, under Major E. J.
Granet.

The 62nd, which had been left to guard the Orange River bridge, received orders late on the 26th to
leave two guns at that camp, and proceed with all speed to rejoin Lord Methuen's division. Owing
to a deficiency in rolling stock, no railway transport was available, and it became necessary for
the battery to march the whole way. Starting at 10 a.m. on the
27th, Major Granet reached Belmont, thirty miles distant, at dusk.
He halted there till 6 a.m. on the 28th, when, escorted by twenty-five
of the Royal Munster Fusiliers mounted infantry, he marched to Honey
Nest Kloof, where he decided to water and feed his horses.

He had but just halted, when a message reached him that there was
fighting on the Riet river and that guns and ammunition were urgently
required there.

He started immediately, and despite the heavy ground over which he
had to pass, reached the battlefield a little after 2 p.m. In twenty-eight
hours the 62nd battery had covered sixty-two miles, at the expense
of six horses which fell dead in the traces, and of about forty more,
which never recovered from the fatigue of this forced march.

The battery
was first sent to the left to support the advance up the north bank
of the river, but before it had opened fire, Colonel Hall ordered Major
Granet more to the eastward, as he was afraid that the shells might
fall among the detachment during its progress through the trees and
brushwood which concealed its movements.

At 2.45 p.m., the 62nd came into action 1,200 yards from the south bank, behind a swell in the ground
which covered the gunners from the waist downwards. Its fire, aimed first at the north bank, was distributed
laterally, and then for depth, with good results, as the enemy's musketry slackened, and numbers of men
were seen stealing away. About 5 p.m., to support the projected attack by the Guards, the battery
was moved close to a sandpit on the west of the railway, where it
was joined by the section of the 18th from the left of the line.

[Sidenote: Colvile breaks off the fight.]

After considerable delay, caused by the difficulty of sending messages
across the shot-swept plain, Major-General Colvile was informed that
Lord Methuen had been wounded, and that the command of the division
had devolved upon him.

He handed over the Guards' brigade to Colonel Paget, Scots Guards, with orders to collect his battalions
for the attack upon the left of the Boer line, but soon afterwards decided that it was too late
to risk the passage of the river at night with troops exhausted by hunger, thirst, and the burning
heat of an exceptionally hot day. He therefore resolved to break off
the fight till daybreak next morning, and directed Colonel Paget to
form up his brigade for the night at the southern reservoir.

[Sidenote: Pole-Carew holds Rosmead, and concentrates 9th brigade on north
bank.]

[Sidenote: Boers abandon position. Night, Nov. 28-29.]

As soon as Major-General Pole-Carew reluctantly abandoned the idea
of renewing his attack along the north bank of the Riet, he posted
his troops for the defence of Rosmead.

He realised the risks which he ran in holding so isolated a position throughout the night, but he
and his staff considered that the importance of maintaining the lodgment, which had been effected on the
enemy's side of the Riet, made it worth while to incur the danger. To the Royal engineers, under Major
G. F. Leverson, was allotted the western face of the village; the Yorkshire Light Infantry held the
north, and the Loyal North Lancashire the north-east; the Argyll and Sutherland guarded the east. The
men lined the walls, banks, and houses at a yard and a half apart,
in groups of six, of whom five rested while one stood sentry. In the centre
of the village was the reserve, two companies of the Northumberland
Fusiliers, and a company of the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards.

The remainder of the 9th brigade was ordered to cross the river. To guide them, two fires were lit at the
drift; and by daybreak the whole command was concentrated on the north bank. It was reinforced
by the 1st Highland Light Infantry, who had arrived during the night
by rail from Orange River. In the grey of the morning, while the
Guards were preparing to support the 9th brigade, the guns[177] re-opened
fire upon Modder River village, but it was soon discovered that during
the night the enemy had abandoned his position, and had disappeared
with all his guns and pom-poms.

With horses utterly tired out, immediate pursuit was impossible,
though by midday patrols of mounted men had regained touch with such
of the Boers as had fallen back upon Magersfontein.

By the afternoon, the whole division had crossed the Riet, and was concentrated
on its northern bank.

[Footnote 177: On the 28th, the field batteries expended ammunition
as follows:--

18th 1,029 rounds 62nd 247 "

75th 1,008 " The Naval guns 260 "]

[Sidenote: Casualties of Nov. 28th.]

The British casualties consisted of four officers killed (among whom
was Lieut.-Colonel H. R. Stopford, commanding the 2nd battalion Coldstream
Guards) and 19 wounded; among the other ranks 67 were killed, and
370 wounded.[178] The losses among the Boers are not accurately known,
but 23 burghers were found dead in Rosmead and buried near the village,
while 27 bodies were subsequently found in the river itself.

[Footnote 178: For details as to casualties, see Appendix 6.]

CHAPTER
XVI.

THE RAID ON SOUTHERN NATAL.[179]

[Footnote 179: See map No. 4.]

[Sidenote: The relation of Ladysmith to the defence of Natal.]

Throughout the operations in Natal during the opening phase of the war, Sir G. White had held that a
mobile force, concentrated north of the Tugela, afforded better protection to the central and
southern portions of the colony than any number of detachments stationed
on the lines of communication. Face to face as he was with an enemy
in superior strength, the retention with his field force of every
available unit was essential to the British commander's plan of striking
at his opponents whenever an opportunity offered.

Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson, although anxious as to the security of Maritzburg and Natal from Boer raids,
accepted Sir George's decision, telegraphing to the General on 26th October: "I shall do my best
in consultation with General Wolfe Murray.... I think we shall be able to deal with any small
raid, but a raid in force, especially if supported by guns, will
be a serious matter.

We must take the risk, and hope for the best." On October 30th, the
date of the battle of Lombards Kop,[180] the only regular unit on
the Natal line of communication was the 1st Border regiment, which
had arrived at Maritzburg that morning from East London.

Detachments of colonial troops held Colenso bridge and Estcourt. To the eastward the Umvoti Rifles,
a mounted corps rather more than one hundred strong, had been ordered to
fall back from Helpmakaar and watch the ferry, by which the Dundee-Greytown
road crosses the Tugela.

A battalion of mounted infantry was being raised at Maritzburg by Lieut.-Colonel
Thorneycroft, Royal Scots Fusiliers, and another at Durban by Lieut.-Colonel
Bethune, 16th Lancers.

[Footnote 180: See Chapter X.]

[Sidenote: Threatened siege changes situation.]

The result of the battle of 30th October made it probable that the field force at Ladysmith would be
soon cut off from its communications. To keep the road open to the south, Sir George White that evening
reinforced the garrison of Colenso by despatching thither by rail from
Ladysmith the 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers, a company of mounted infantry,
and the Natal Field battery, whose obsolete 7-pounder guns had been
grievously outranged at Elandslaagte.

On arrival
at Colenso, the commanding officer of the Dublin, Colonel C. D. Cooper,
assumed command of that post, finding there one squadron of the Natal
Carbineers, one squadron Imperial Light Horse, a party of mounted
Police, and the Durban Light Infantry (about 380 strong), and a detachment
(fifty strong) of the Natal Naval Volunteers, with two 9-pounder guns.

The total strength of the command, including the reinforcements from Ladysmith,
was approximately 1,200 men.

The Natal Royal Rifles (150 strong) were encamped at Estcourt, twenty-five
miles in rear.

[Sidenote: An anxious fortnight, Oct. 31st-Nov. 14th.]

On the following day General White telegraphed to the Governor of the
colony: "My intention is to hold Ladysmith, make attacks on the enemy's
position whenever possible, and retain the greatest number of the enemy here."
Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson and the officer commanding the Natal line of communication,
Brigadier-General J. S. Wolfe Murray, were thus confronted with a difficult
and anxious situation. It was obvious that, having regard to the numerical
superiority and greater mobility of the enemy, the British force at
Ladysmith would, in all probability, be unable to retain the whole of the Boer
army.

A raid on southern Natal was therefore to be expected immediately, and
the strength of that raid might well be such as to overwhelm, or, at
any rate, to ignore, the weak garrisons which so imperfectly covered
Maritzburg and Durban.

Moreover, General Murray was aware that even if Sir R. Buller should
think fit to divert from Cape Colony any portion of the expeditionary
force now on the high seas, a fortnight must elapse before a single
man could be landed at Durban.

[Sidenote: Provisional steps in case of Boer raid.]

Maritzburg, from its topographical environment, is even less adapted
by nature for defence than Ladysmith. Lying in a deep depression surrounded
by high hills, the positions covering the capital of the colony are
so extensive that a very large force would be needed for their effective
occupation.

Nevertheless, after consultation on the afternoon of 31st October with
the Governor and the Prime Minister of the colony (Colonel Hime),
the Brigadier-General decided that, although it was impossible to
protect the town itself, it was advisable to prepare the cantonments,
so-called "Fort Napier," for defence, and for that purpose to borrow
Naval guns from the ships at Durban.

As regards Durban, a telegram was received from Sir Alfred Milner stating that arrangements had
been made by Sir Redvers Buller with the admiral for the immediate despatch to that port of H.M.S.
Terrible and Forte as a reinforcement to the Tartar and Philomel, already in the harbour, and suggesting that
in the case of a complete disaster to Sir G. White's force it would be wise to retire on the
seaport and there make a stand.

[Sidenote: Changes of stations, Nov. 2nd and 3rd, in expectation of raid.]

But the responsible military authorities were by no means inclined to
take a pessimistic view of the situation. The final instructions, dated 1st
November, received from Sir G. White's Chief of the Staff, directed
General Murray "to remain and defend Maritzburg to the last," and
on the following day Sir R. Buller telegraphed from Capetown that
a division would be despatched as soon as possible to Natal, adding:
"Do all you can to hold on to Colenso till troops arrive."

Meanwhile, a warning had been received from the Intelligence staff at Ladysmith, that a considerable
body of Free Staters was moving on Colenso, and Brigadier-General Murray, realising that the situation
of Colonel Cooper's force at the bridge, commanded by the heights on the northern bank of the Tugela,
was becoming precarious, directed that officer to fall back on Estcourt,
should he consider his position no longer tenable.

On the afternoon of November 2nd, telegraphic communication between
Colenso and Ladysmith was cut off by the enemy, and a large Boer
commando, having occupied the high ground near Grobelaars Kloof (map
No. 15), opened fire on the two little works, Forts Wylie and Molyneux,
which had been constructed by the Natal Volunteers on the left bank
of the Tugela to cover the crossings of that river, and the approaches
to Langewacht Spruit.

The Natal Field battery and Natal Naval Volunteers' guns were again
seriously outranged by the Boer artillery, and Colonel Cooper decided
that, having regard to his instructions, he must fall back on Estcourt.

The withdrawal to that town was effected on the night of November
2nd-3rd without molestation from the enemy, the infantry being conveyed
in special trains, the mounted troops and field artillery moving by
road.

The 1st battalion Border regiment was simultaneously pushed forward
by rail from Maritzburg to Estcourt, and Brigadier-General Murray
proceeded, on 3rd November, to the latter station to take personal
command of the force there concentrated, which now amounted in all
to about 2,300 men.

With this force, weak though it was in guns and mounted troops, he intended to dispute the Boer advance
from the north, falling back, if necessary, on the prepared position at Maritzburg. A telegram,
dated 4th November, conveyed General Buller's approval of these dispositions, but added: "Do not
risk losing Durban by over-prolonged defence of Maritzburg, but hold the latter so long as you
safely can. I fear it will be at least ten days before I can send you substantial assistance."

[Sidenote: After much delay, on Nov. 13th/99, 4,200 Boers under Joubert and Botha reach Colenso.]

Fortunately,
until the last but one of these ten days, the enemy held back on the north bank of the Tugela. A Krijgsraad,
at which all the Boer generals and commandants attended, had assembled
in front of Ladysmith on 1st November to decide whether the main effort
of the Boer army should be concentrated on the attack of that town, or
whether, leaving a detachment to hold Sir G. White's troops, they
should at once advance on Maritzburg and Durban.

Some of the younger leaders, including Louis Botha, as yet only plain commandant, were in favour of the latter course.
The majority of the council decided that, so long as 12,000 effective
British troops remained at Ladysmith, the commandos were not numerous
enough to allow them to win the much-coveted prizes of the capital
and seaport of Natal.

It was believed that General White's troops would be unable to withstand
an assault.

On the 9th November, therefore, an abortive and ill-arranged attack
was made. It sufficed to show that the Ladysmith garrison was by no
means disposed to yield, and that a formal and perhaps prolonged investment
would be needed to weaken its powers of resistance.

To this task, therefore, the main body of the Boer commandos was assigned; but, as an erroneous report
had come in that 5,000 English troops had concentrated at Frere, it was decided that a strong reconnaissance,
under the personal command of General Joubert, should cross the Tugela to ascertain the disposition
and strength of the British column. On the evening, therefore, of the 13th November, a force about
4,200 strong was assembled at Colenso with orders to push to the south. As agreed, Joubert, although
Transvaal Commandant-General, went with it. Louis Botha, promoted to the rank of "Fighting
General," was second in command.

There is reason to believe that the presence of the senior General was
due to a desire to restrain the impetuosity of his subordinate.

[Sidenote: Defensive measures taken during the time of grace given
by Boer delay.]

The fifteen days' breathing space which the authorities in southern Natal
had thus been given, after receipt of the disquieting intelligence
of the battle of Lombards Kop, had been of great value.

Captain Percy Scott, H.M.S. Terrible, had reached Durban on November 6th, and was appointed commandant of
that town. A defence scheme was prepared and a battalion of "Imperial Light Infantry" was raised
to assist the Naval contingent,[181] and guns (including two 4.7-in.
guns and sixteen 12-pr. 12-cwt.) were landed for its protection.
At Maritzburg a position in the vicinity of Fort Napier had, under the supervision
of Col. C. C. Rawson, C.R.E., been prepared for defence, the work
being executed by a hastily improvised Pioneer Corps of artisans,
assisted by native labour.

In selecting this position and planning its defence, it was assumed that if the force at Estcourt
fell back on Maritzburg, 4,000 men in all would be available for its occupation. Meanwhile, in addition
to Thorneycroft's corps, the recruiting and training of which were proceeding satisfactorily,
a provisional garrison was arranged for Maritzburg by the despatch
of two 12-pounders and a Naval detachment from the fleet at Durban, by the
withdrawal of the detachment of the Naval Volunteers from Estcourt,
and by the organisation into a Town Guard of all able-bodied citizens
willing to carry a rifle. Moreover, some 150 loyal and zealous Natal colonists
volunteered for scouting duties, and were formed into a corps under the
command of the Hon. T. K. Murray, C.M.G., finding their own horses, saddlery,
and rifles, and serving without pay.

This body of patriotic men did useful work to the north of Maritzburg,
in the neighbourhood of Mooi River, from the 4th to the 16th November,
when on the arrival of reinforcements from the Cape they were released
from further duty, and thanked in General Orders for their "excellent
service."

[Footnote 181: This contingent consisted of parties from the Terrible, Forte, Thetis, Philomel and
Tartar, of a total strength of 35 officers and 423 men. Commander Limpus, R.N., was placed in command
of the guns (see p. 120).]

[Sidenote: Nov. 11th/99. Reinforcements begin to disembark. Sir F. Clery takes command, Nov. 15th.]
On 11th November General Murray, with the approval of Sir R. Buller,
handed over the command of the Estcourt garrison to Colonel Charles
Long, R.H.A., and returned to Maritzburg to direct personally the
heavy work falling on the line of communication staff in arranging
for the disembarkation and equipment of the reinforcements, whose
arrival at Durban was now hourly expected. He saw him in
a flash as the young man marked out by women; and for a concentrated minute the dignity, the
comparative austerity, as he funnily fancied it, of this character affected him almost with
awe. There was an experience on his interlocutor's part that looked out at him from under the
displaced hat, and that looked out moreover by a force of its own, the deep fact of its quantity
and quality, and not through Chad's intending bravado or swagger. That was then the way men
marked out by women WERE--and also the men by whom the women were doubtless in turn sufficiently
distinguished.  It affected Strether for thirty seconds as a relevant truth, a truth which,
however, the next minute, had fallen into its relation.  "Can't you imagine there being some
questions," Chad asked, "that a fellow--however much impressed by your charming way of stating
things--would like to put to you first?"

"Oh yes--easily.  I'm here to answer everything.  I think I can even tell you things, of the
greatest interest to you, that you won't know enough to ask me.  We'll take as many days to
it as you like. But I want," Strether wound up, "to go to bed now."

"Really?"

Chad had spoken in such surprise that he was amused.  "Can't you believe it?--with what you
put me through?"

The young man seemed to consider.  "Oh I haven't put you through much--yet."

"Do you mean there's so much more to come?"  Strether laughed.  "All the more reason then that
I should gird myself."  And as if to mark what he felt he could by this time count on he was
already on his feet.

Chad, still seated, stayed him, with a hand against him, as he passed between their table and
the next.  "Oh we shall get on!"

The tone was, as who should say, everything Strether could have desired; and quite as good
the expression of face with which the speaker had looked up at him and kindly held him.  All
these things lacked was their not showing quite so much as the fruit of experience. Yes, experience
was what Chad did play on him, if he didn't play any grossness of defiance.  Of course experience
was in a manner defiance; but it wasn't, at any rate--rather indeed quite the contrary!--grossness;
which was so much gained.  He fairly grew older, Strether thought, while he himself so reasoned.
Then with his mature pat of his visitor's arm he also got up; and there had been enough of
it all by this time to make the visitor feel that something WAS settled.  Wasn't it settled
that he had at least the testimony of Chad's own belief in a settlement?  Strether found himself
treating Chad's profession that they would get on as a sufficient basis for going to bed. 
He hadn't nevertheless after this gone to bed directly; for when they had again passed out
together into the mild bright night a check had virtually sprung from nothing more than a small
circumstance which might have acted only as confirming quiescence. There were people, expressive
sound, projected light, still abroad, and after they had taken in for a moment, through everything,
the great clear architectural street, they turned off in tacit union to the quarter of Strether's
hotel.  "Of course," Chad here abruptly began, "of course Mother's making things out with you
about me has been natural--and of course also you've had a good deal to go upon. Still, you
must have filled out."

He had stopped, leaving his friend to wonder a little what point he wished to make; and this
it was that enabled Strether meanwhile to make one.  "Oh we've never pretended to go into detail.
We weren't in the least bound to THAT.  It was 'filling out' enough to miss you as we did."

But Chad rather oddly insisted, though under the high lamp at their corner, where they paused,
he had at first looked as if touched by Strether's allusion to the long sense, at home, of
his absence.  "What I mean is you must have imagined."

"Imagined what?"

"Well--horrors."

It affected Strether:  horrors were so little--superficially at least--in this robust and reasoning
image.  But he was none the less there to be veracious.  "Yes, I dare say we HAVE imagined
horrors.  But where's the harm if we haven't been wrong?"

Chad raised his face to the lamp, and it was one of the moments at which he had, in his extraordinary
way, most his air of designedly showing himself.  It was as if at these instants he just presented
himself, his identity so rounded off, his palpable presence and his massive young manhood,
as such a link in the chain as might practically amount to a kind of demonstration.  It was
as if--and how but anomalously?--he couldn't after all help thinking sufficiently well of these
things to let them go for what they were worth.  What could there be in this for Strether but
the hint of some self-respect, some sense of power, oddly perverted; something latent and beyond
access, ominous and perhaps enviable? The intimation had the next thing, in a flash, taken
on a name--a name on which our friend seized as he asked himself if he weren't perhaps really
dealing with an irreducible young Pagan. This description--he quite jumped at it--had a sound
that gratified his mental ear, so that of a sudden he had already adopted it.  Pagan--yes,
that was, wasn't it?  what Chad WOULD logically be.  It was what he must be.  It was what he
was.  The idea was a clue and, instead of darkening the prospect, projected a certain clearness.
Strether made out in this quick ray that a Pagan was perhaps, at the pass they had come to,
the thing most wanted at Woollett. They'd be able to do with one--a good one; he'd find an
opening--yes; and Strether's imagination even now prefigured and accompanied the first appearance
there of the rousing personage. He had only the slight discomfort of feeling, as the young
man turned away from the lamp, that his thought had in the momentary silence possibly been
guessed.  "Well, I've no doubt," said Chad, "you've come near enough.  The details, as you
say, don't matter. It HAS been generally the case that I've let myself go.  But I'm coming
round--I'm not so bad now."  With which they walked on again to Strether's hotel.

"Do you mean," the latter asked as they approached the door, "that there isn't any woman with
you now?"

"But pray what has that to do with it?"

"Why it's the whole question."

"Of my going home?"  Chad was clearly surprised.  "Oh not much! Do you think that when I want
to go any one will have any power--"

"To keep you"--Strether took him straight up--"from carrying out your wish?  Well, our idea
has been that somebody has hitherto--or a good many persons perhaps--kept you pretty well from
'wanting.' That's what--if you're in anybody's hands--may again happen.  You don't answer my
question"--he kept it up; "but if you aren't in anybody's hands so much the better.  There's
nothing then but what makes for your going."

Chad turned this over.  "I don't answer your question?"  He spoke quite without resenting it.
"Well, such questions have always a rather exaggerated side.  One doesn't know quite what you
mean by being in women's 'hands.' It's all so vague.  One is when one isn't.  One isn't when
one is.  And then one can't quite give people away."  He seemed kindly to explain.  "I've NEVER
got stuck--so very hard; and, as against anything at any time really better, I don't think
I've ever been afraid."  There was something in it that held Strether to wonder, and this gave
him time to go on.  He broke out as with a more helpful thought.  "Don't you know how I like
Paris itself?"

The upshot was indeed to make our friend marvel.  "Oh if THAT'S all that's the matter with
you--!"  It was HE who almost showed resentment.

Chad's smile of a truth more than met it.  "But isn't that enough?"

Strether hesitated, but it came out. [Footnote 176: Major Albrecht fought his guns with great determination;
his infantry escort, according to Boer accounts, retreated when they saw the advance of the British,
and his ammunition was almost exhausted, but his gunners stood their
ground.]

[Sidenote: Pole-Carew is obliged to fall back to Rosmead.]

[Sidenote: Nov. 28th/99.]

[Sidenote: Lord Methuen being wounded command devolves on Colvile.]

Captain
Forestier-Walker, who was now in action with the section of the 18th
battery near the farm which had been carried earlier in the day by
the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry, vigorously shelled the trees
and brushwood in front of our men as they advanced, but his efforts
were much hampered by the fact that the undergrowth was so thick that
it was impossible to see exactly how far forward they were.

All attempts to establish communication by signal, between the officer
commanding the 9th brigade and the troops on the south side of the
river, failed.

The attack
broke down from want of strength to drive it home, and the baffled
troops sullenly fell back to Rosmead.

They were so closely pressed by the enemy's musketry that,
in order to cover the retreat, two officers, Major H. F. Coleridge,
North Lancashire, and Captain T. Irvine, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders,
each with ten or eleven men of different battalions, threw themselves
into farmhouses, which they stubbornly defended until, many hours
later, after their detachments had suffered severe loss, they were
ordered to evacuate their posts.

On his return to the village Major-General Pole-Carew
found that the British strength on the north bank had been increased
by the arrival of 300 officers and men of the Royal engineers, and of part
of a company of the 2nd battalion of the Coldstream Guards. After writing
to Lord Methuen to report his failure to force his way up the right
bank, and to ask for co-operation in the fresh attempt for which he
was then rallying his troops, Pole-Carew heard a rumour that Lord
Methuen had been wounded, and that Major-General Colvile was now in
command of the division.

The rumour was true. Lord Methuen had been wounded at about 4 p.m. near
the centre of the line, and one of his staff officers, Colonel H.
P. Northcott, had previously fallen mortally wounded, while conveying
orders for the reinforcement of the troops on the north bank.

Not long after this news came in, the officer commanding the two
guns of the 18th battery, still in action near the farm to the south
of Rosmead, reported that he heard through the officer commanding
the artillery that Major-General Colvile had issued orders for a vigorous
bombardment of the position by the artillery till dusk, when the Guards
were to attack the left of the Boer line with the bayonet.

Pole-Carew then considered whether, in view of the projected movement of the
Guards' brigade, his local attack was still feasible. He decided that,
owing to the configuration of the ground over which both bodies of
troops would have to move in the darkness, the danger was so great lest his
detachment should enfilade the Guards as to prohibit an advance from
Rosmead. All, therefore, that could be done was to secure firmly that
village.

[Sidenote: 62nd battery with four guns arrives after forced march.]

While the little column had been striving in vain to force its way up the
right bank of the river, the situation on the left bank had remained unchanged.
The infantry lay prone on the ground, engaged in a desultory fire-fight
with an unseen enemy, while the artillery continued to shell the buildings
and the river-banks near the railway bridge. During the course of
the afternoon Colonel Hall, commanding the artillery, had received
a welcome reinforcement of four guns of the 62nd battery, under Major
E. J. Granet.

The 62nd, which had been left to guard the Orange River bridge, received
orders late on the 26th to leave two guns at that camp, and proceed
with all speed to rejoin Lord Methuen's division.

Owing to a deficiency in rolling stock, no railway transport was available, and it became necessary
for the battery to march the whole way. Starting at 10 a.m. on the
27th, Major Granet reached Belmont, thirty miles distant, at dusk.
He halted there till 6 a.m. on the 28th, when, escorted by twenty-five
of the Royal Munster Fusiliers mounted infantry, he marched to Honey
Nest Kloof, where he decided to water and feed his horses.

He had but just halted, when a message reached him that there was fighting on the Riet river and that
guns and ammunition were urgently required there. He started immediately, and
despite the heavy ground over which he had to pass, reached the battlefield
a little after 2 p.m. In twenty-eight hours the 62nd battery had covered
sixty-two miles, at the expense of six horses which fell dead in the
traces, and of about forty more, which never recovered from the fatigue
of this forced march.

The battery was first sent to the left to support the advance up the
north bank of the river, but before it had opened fire, Colonel Hall ordered
Major Granet more to the eastward, as he was afraid that the shells might
fall among the detachment during its progress through the trees and brushwood
which concealed its movements. At 2.45 p.m., the 62nd came into action
1,200 yards from the south bank, behind a swell in the ground which
covered the gunners from the waist downwards.

Its fire, aimed first at the north bank, was distributed laterally,
and then for depth, with good results, as the enemy's musketry slackened,
and numbers of men were seen stealing away.

About 5 p.m., to support the projected attack by the Guards, the
battery was moved close to a sandpit on the west of the railway, where
it was joined by the section of the 18th from the left of the line.

[Sidenote: Colvile breaks off the fight.]

After considerable delay, caused by the difficulty of sending messages
across the shot-swept plain, Major-General Colvile was informed that
Lord Methuen had been wounded, and that the command of the division
had devolved upon him. He handed over the Guards' brigade to Colonel Paget,
Scots Guards, with orders to collect his battalions for the attack
upon the left of the Boer line, but soon afterwards decided that it
was too late to risk the passage of the river at night with troops
exhausted by hunger, thirst, and the burning heat of an exceptionally
hot day.

He therefore resolved to break off the fight till daybreak next morning, and directed Colonel Paget
to form up his brigade for the night at the southern reservoir.

[Sidenote: Pole-Carew holds Rosmead, and concentrates 9th brigade
on north bank.]

[Sidenote: Boers abandon position.

Night, Nov. 28-29.]

As soon as Major-General Pole-Carew reluctantly abandoned the idea
of renewing his attack along the north bank of the Riet, he posted
his troops for the defence of Rosmead.

He realised the risks which he ran in holding so isolated a position
throughout the night, but he and his staff considered that the importance
of maintaining the lodgment, which had been effected on the enemy's
side of the Riet, made it worth while to incur the danger.

To the Royal engineers, under Major G. F. Leverson, was allotted the
western face of the village; the Yorkshire Light Infantry held the
north, and the Loyal North Lancashire the north-east; the Argyll and
Sutherland guarded the east.

The men lined the walls, banks, and houses at a yard and a half apart,
in groups of six, of whom five rested while one stood sentry. In the
centre of the village was the reserve, two companies of the Northumberland
Fusiliers, and a company of the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards.

The remainder of the 9th brigade was ordered to cross the river.
To guide them, two fires were lit at the drift; and by daybreak the whole
command was concentrated on the north bank.

It was reinforced by the 1st Highland Light Infantry, who had arrived
during the night by rail from Orange River. In the grey of the morning, while
the Guards were preparing to support the 9th brigade, the guns[177]
re-opened fire upon Modder River village, but it was soon discovered
that during the night the enemy had abandoned his position, and had
disappeared with all his guns and pom-poms.

With horses utterly tired out, immediate pursuit was impossible, though by midday patrols of mounted men
had regained touch with such of the Boers as had fallen back upon Magersfontein.
By the afternoon, the whole division had crossed the Riet, and was concentrated
on its northern bank.

[Footnote 177: On the 28th, the field batteries expended ammunition
as follows:--

18th 1,029 rounds 62nd 247 "

75th 1,008 " The Naval guns 260 "]

[Sidenote: Casualties of Nov. 28th.]

The British casualties consisted of four officers killed (among whom was Lieut.-Colonel H. R. Stopford,
commanding the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards) and 19 wounded; among
the other ranks 67 were killed, and 370 wounded.[178] The losses
among the Boers are not accurately known, but 23 burghers were found
dead in Rosmead and buried near the village, while 27 bodies were
subsequently found in the river itself.

[Footnote 178: For details as to casualties, see Appendix 6.]

CHAPTER XVI.

THE RAID ON SOUTHERN NATAL.[179]

[Footnote 179: See map No. 4.]

[Sidenote: The relation of Ladysmith to the defence of Natal.]

Throughout
the operations in Natal during the opening phase of the war, Sir G.
White had held that a mobile force, concentrated north of the Tugela,
afforded better protection to the central and southern portions of
the colony than any number of detachments stationed on the lines of
communication.

Face to face as he was with an enemy in superior strength, the retention with his field force of every
available unit was essential to the British commander's plan of striking at his opponents whenever
an opportunity offered. Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson, although anxious as to the security of Maritzburg and Natal
from Boer raids, accepted Sir George's decision, telegraphing to the General on 26th October: "I shall do
my best in consultation with General Wolfe Murray.... I think we shall
be able to deal with any small raid, but a raid in force, especially
if supported by guns, will be a serious matter. We must take the
risk, and hope for the best."

On October
30th, the date of the battle of Lombards Kop,[180] the only regular unit on the Natal line of communication
was the 1st Border regiment, which had arrived at Maritzburg that
morning from East London. Detachments of colonial troops held Colenso
bridge and Estcourt.

To the eastward the Umvoti Rifles, a mounted corps rather more than
one hundred strong, had been ordered to fall back from Helpmakaar
and watch the ferry, by which the Dundee-Greytown road crosses the
Tugela.

A battalion of mounted infantry was being raised at Maritzburg by
Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft, Royal Scots Fusiliers, and another at Durban
by Lieut.-Colonel Bethune, 16th Lancers.

[Footnote 180: See Chapter X.]

[Sidenote: Threatened siege changes situation.]

The result of the battle of 30th October made it probable that the field
force at Ladysmith would be soon cut off from its communications. To keep
the road open to the south, Sir George White that evening reinforced
the garrison of Colenso by despatching thither by rail from Ladysmith
the 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers, a company of mounted infantry, and
the Natal Field battery, whose obsolete 7-pounder guns had been grievously
outranged at Elandslaagte.

On arrival at Colenso, the commanding officer of the Dublin, Colonel C. D. Cooper, assumed command of that
post, finding there one squadron of the Natal Carbineers, one squadron Imperial
Light Horse, a party of mounted Police, and the Durban Light Infantry
(about 380 strong), and a detachment (fifty strong) of the Natal Naval
Volunteers, with two 9-pounder guns.

The total strength of the command, including the reinforcements from Ladysmith, was approximately 1,200
men. The Natal Royal Rifles (150 strong) were encamped at Estcourt,
twenty-five miles in rear.

[Sidenote: An anxious fortnight, Oct. 31st-Nov. 14th.]

On the following day General White telegraphed to the Governor of the
colony: "My intention is to hold Ladysmith, make attacks on the enemy's
position whenever possible, and retain the greatest number of the
enemy here." Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson and the officer commanding the
Natal line of communication, Brigadier-General J. S. Wolfe Murray,
were thus confronted with a difficult and anxious situation. It was obvious
that, having regard to the numerical superiority and greater mobility
of the enemy, the British force at Ladysmith would, in all probability,
be unable to retain the whole of the Boer army.

A raid on southern Natal was therefore to be expected immediately, and the strength of that raid might well
be such as to overwhelm, or, at any rate, to ignore, the weak garrisons
which so imperfectly covered Maritzburg and Durban. Moreover, General
Murray was aware that even if Sir R. Buller should think fit to divert from
Cape Colony any portion of the expeditionary force now on the high
seas, a fortnight must elapse before a single man could be landed
at Durban.

[Sidenote: Provisional steps in case of Boer raid.]

Maritzburg, from its topographical environment, is even less adapted
by nature for defence than Ladysmith. Lying in a deep depression surrounded
by high hills, the positions covering the capital of the colony are
so extensive that a very large force would be needed for their effective
occupation.

Nevertheless, after consultation on the afternoon of 31st October with
the Governor and the Prime Minister of the colony (Colonel Hime),
the Brigadier-General decided that, although it was impossible to
protect the town itself, it was advisable to prepare the cantonments,
so-called "Fort Napier," for defence, and for that purpose to borrow
Naval guns from the ships at Durban.

As regards Durban, a telegram was received from Sir Alfred Milner
stating that arrangements had been made by Sir Redvers Buller with
the admiral for the immediate despatch to that port of H.M.S. Terrible and
Forte as a reinforcement to the Tartar and Philomel, already in the
harbour, and suggesting that in the case of a complete disaster to
Sir G. White's force it would be wise to retire on the seaport and
there make a stand.

[Sidenote: Changes of stations, Nov. 2nd and 3rd, in expectation of
raid.]

But the responsible military authorities were by no means inclined
to take a pessimistic view of the situation. The final instructions, dated
1st November, received from Sir G. White's Chief of the Staff, directed
General Murray "to remain and defend Maritzburg to the last," and on
the following day Sir R. Buller telegraphed from Capetown that a
division would be despatched as soon as possible to Natal, adding:
"Do all you can to hold on to Colenso till troops arrive."

Meanwhile, a warning had been received from the Intelligence staff
at Ladysmith, that a considerable body of Free Staters was moving on Colenso,
and Brigadier-General Murray, realising that the situation of Colonel
Cooper's force at the bridge, commanded by the heights on the northern
bank of the Tugela, was becoming precarious, directed that officer to fall
back on Estcourt, should he consider his position no longer tenable.

On the afternoon of November 2nd, telegraphic communication between
Colenso and Ladysmith was cut off by the enemy, and a large Boer commando,
having occupied the high ground near Grobelaars Kloof (map No. 15),
opened fire on the two little works, Forts Wylie and Molyneux, which
had been constructed by the Natal Volunteers on the left bank of the
Tugela to cover the crossings of that river, and the approaches to
Langewacht Spruit.

The Natal Field battery and Natal Naval Volunteers' guns were again
seriously outranged by the Boer artillery, and Colonel Cooper decided
that, having regard to his instructions, he must fall back on Estcourt.

The withdrawal to that town was effected on the night of November
2nd-3rd without molestation from the enemy, the infantry being conveyed
in special trains, the mounted troops and field artillery moving by
road.

The 1st battalion Border regiment was simultaneously pushed forward
by rail from Maritzburg to Estcourt, and Brigadier-General Murray
proceeded, on 3rd November, to the latter station to take personal
command of the force there concentrated, which now amounted in all
to about 2,300 men.

With this force, weak though it was in guns and mounted troops, he
intended to dispute the Boer advance from the north, falling back,
if necessary, on the prepared position at Maritzburg.

A telegram, dated 4th November, conveyed General Buller's approval
of these dispositions, but added: "Do not risk losing Durban by over-prolonged
defence of Maritzburg, but hold the latter so long as you safely can.
I fear it will be at least ten days before I can send you substantial
assistance."

[Sidenote: After much delay, on Nov. 13th/99, 4,200 Boers under Joubert
and Botha reach Colenso.]

Fortunately, until the last but one of these ten days, the enemy held
back on the north bank of the Tugela. A Krijgsraad, at which all the
Boer generals and commandants attended, had assembled in front of
Ladysmith on 1st November to decide whether the main effort of the
Boer army should be concentrated on the attack of that town, or whether,
leaving a detachment to hold Sir G. White's troops, they should at
once advance on Maritzburg and Durban.

Some of the younger leaders, including Louis Botha, as yet only plain commandant,
were in favour of the latter course. The majority of the council decided
that, so long as 12,000 effective British troops remained at Ladysmith,
the commandos were not numerous enough to allow them to win the much-coveted
prizes of the capital and seaport of Natal. It was believed that General
White's troops would be unable to withstand an assault.

On the 9th November, therefore, an abortive and ill-arranged attack was made. It sufficed to show
that the Ladysmith garrison was by no means disposed to yield, and that a formal and perhaps prolonged
investment would be needed to weaken its powers of resistance. To this task, therefore, the main
body of the Boer commandos was assigned; but, as an erroneous report
had come in that 5,000 English troops had concentrated at Frere, it
was decided that a strong reconnaissance, under the personal command
of General Joubert, should cross the Tugela to ascertain the disposition
and strength of the British column.

On the evening, therefore, of the 13th November, a force about 4,200
strong was assembled at Colenso with orders to push to the south.
As agreed, Joubert, although Transvaal Commandant-General, went with
it.

Louis Botha, promoted to the rank of "Fighting General," was second in command. There is reason to believe
that the presence of the senior General was due to a desire to restrain
the impetuosity of his subordinate.

[Sidenote: Defensive measures taken during the time of grace given by Boer
delay.]

The fifteen days' breathing space which the authorities in southern
Natal had thus been given, after receipt of the disquieting intelligence
of the battle of Lombards Kop, had been of great value.

Captain Percy Scott, H.M.S. Terrible, had reached Durban on November 6th,
and was appointed commandant of that town. A defence scheme was prepared
and a battalion of "Imperial Light Infantry" was raised to assist
the Naval contingent,[181] and guns (including two 4.7-in. guns and
sixteen 12-pr. 12-cwt.) were landed for its protection.

At Maritzburg a position in the vicinity of Fort Napier had, under
the supervision of Col. C. C. Rawson, C.R.E., been prepared for defence,
the work being executed by a hastily improvised Pioneer Corps of artisans,
assisted by native labour. In selecting this position and planning its
defence, it was assumed that if the force at Estcourt fell back on
Maritzburg, 4,000 men in all would be available for its occupation.
Meanwhile, in addition to Thorneycroft's corps, the recruiting and
training of which were proceeding satisfactorily, a provisional garrison
was arranged for Maritzburg by the despatch of two 12-pounders and
a Naval detachment from the fleet at Durban, by the withdrawal of
the detachment of the Naval Volunteers from Estcourt, and by the organisation
into a Town Guard of all able-bodied citizens willing to carry a rifle.

Moreover, some 150 loyal and zealous Natal colonists volunteered for scouting
duties, and were formed into a corps under the command of the Hon. T. K. Murray,
C.M.G., finding their own horses, saddlery, and rifles, and serving without
pay. This body of patriotic men did useful work to the north of Maritzburg,
in the neighbourhood of Mooi River, from the 4th to the 16th November,
when on the arrival of reinforcements from the Cape they were released
from further duty, and thanked in General Orders for their "excellent
service."

[Footnote 181: This contingent consisted of parties from the Terrible,
Forte, Thetis, Philomel and Tartar, of a total strength of 35 officers
and 423 men.

Commander Limpus, R.N., was placed in command of the guns (see p. 120).]

[Sidenote:
Nov. 11th/99. Reinforcements begin to disembark. Sir F. Clery takes
command, Nov. 15th.]

On 11th November General Murray, with the approval of Sir R. Buller,
handed over the command of the Estcourt garrison to Colonel Charles
Long, R.H.A., and returned to Maritzburg to direct personally the
heavy work falling on the line of communication staff in arranging
for the disembarkation and equipment of the reinforcements, whose
arrival at Durban was now hourly expected.

  The differences were there to match; if they were doubtless deep, though few, they were
quiet--they were, as might be said, almost as shy as if people had been ashamed of them.  People
showed little diffidence about such things, on the other hand, in the Boulevard Malesherbes,
and were so far from being ashamed of them--or indeed of anything else--that they often seemed
to have invented them to avert those agreements that destroy the taste of talk.  No one had
ever done that at Woollett, though Strether could remember times when he himself had been tempted
to it without quite knowing why.  He saw why at present--he had but wanted to promote intercourse.

These, however, were but parenthetic memories, and the turn taken by his affair on the whole
was positively that if his nerves were on the stretch it was because he missed violence.  When
he asked himself if none would then, in connexion with it, ever come at all, he might almost
have passed as wondering how to provoke it. It would be too absurd if such a vision as THAT
should have to be invoked for relief; it was already marked enough as absurd that he should
actually have begun with flutters and dignities on the score of a single accepted meal.  What
sort of a brute had he expected Chad to be, anyway?--Strether had occasion to make the enquiry
but was careful to make it in private.  He could himself, comparatively recent as it was--it
was truly but the fact of a few days since--focus his primal crudity; but he would on the approach
of an observer, as if handling an illicit possession, have slipped the reminiscence out of
sight.  There were echoes of it still in Mrs. Newsome's letters, and there were moments when
these echoes made him exclaim on her want of tact.  He blushed of course, at once, still more
for the explanation than for the ground of it:  it came to him in time to save his manners
that she couldn't at the best become tactful as quickly as he.  Her tact had to reckon with
the Atlantic Ocean, the General Post-Office and the extravagant curve of the globe.  Chad had
one day offered tea at the Boulevard Malesherbes to a chosen few, a group again including the
unobscured Miss Barrace; and Strether had on coming out walked away with the acquaintance whom
in his letters to Mrs. Newsome he always spoke of as the little artist-man.  He had had full
occasion to mention him as the other party, so oddly, to the only close personal alliance observation
had as yet detected in Chad's existence.  Little Bilham's way this afternoon was not Strether's,
but he had none the less kindly come with him, and it was somehow a part of his kindness that
as it had sadly begun to rain they suddenly found themselves seated for conversation at a cafe
in which they had taken refuge. Erskyll thought he was anticipating resistance on the part of the
Masters, and for once he approved the use of force.

Ordinarily, force was a Bad Thing, but this was a Good Cause, which
justified any means.

They entertained the committee from the Convocation for dinner, that
evening.

They came aboard stiffly hostile--most understandably so, under the
circumstances--and Prince Trevannion exerted all his copious charm
to thaw them out, beginning with the pre-dinner cocktails and continuing
through the meal.

By the time they retired for coffee and brandy to the parlor where the conference
was to be held, the Lords-ex-Masters were almost friendly.

"We've enacted the Emancipation Act," Olvir Nikkolon, who was ex officio
chairman of the committee, reported.

"Every slave on the planet must be free before the opening of the
next Midyear Feasts."

"And when will that be?"

Aditya, he knew, had a three hundred and fifty-eight day year; even if
the Midyear Feasts were just past, they were giving themselves very
little time.

In about a hundred and fifty
days, Nikkolon said.

"Good heavens!" Erskyll began, indignantly.

"I should say so, myself," he put in, cutting off anything else the new
Proconsul might have said.

"You gentlemen are allowing yourselves dangerously little time. A
hundred and fifty days will pass quite rapidly, and you have twenty
million slaves to deal with. If you start at this moment and work
continuously, you'll have a little under a second apiece for each
slave."

The Lords-Master looked dismayed. So, he was happy to observe,
did Count Erskyll.

"I assume you have some system of slave registration?"
he continued.

That was safe. They had a bureaucracy, and bureaucracies
tend to have registrations of practically everything.  The only thing I've any business to like is to feel that I'm moving him.  That's
why I ask you whether you believe I AM?  Is the creature"--and he did his best to show that
he simply wished to ascertain--"honest?"

His companion looked responsible, but looked it through a small dim smile.  "What creature
do you mean?"

It was on this that they did have for a little a mute interchange. Would to God I could make
all mankind realize this awful, inconceivable privilege of life, that,
Jupiter-like, they would turn and face the light.

O child of Adam!

PART II

Here beginneth Chapter 3 of the Second Part of the Book which is called
"The Tablets of Aeth," wherein the Third, and last, Trinity of the
Planetary Rulers is faithfully transcribed.

"Thou hast
entered the immeasurable regions. I am the Dweller of the Threshold.
What wouldst thou with me? * * * Dost thou fear me? Am I not thy
beloved?

TABLET THE SEVENTH

Saturn

SYMBOL

A human figure with a scepter of power, a being of light crowned with
flames.

VII

REFLECTION

TABLET THE SEVENTH

In the external we remember Saturn as an old man, and as a skeleton with
a scythe--as Time, in fact. But see, O immortal soul, the real Saturn,
as the Angel of Life, having from time gathered the experiences which
crown him with light, holding the rod of power; the Christ born in
the manger of Capricorn, the Goat--life born of death; the conqueror
of evil.

He throws off the mask of age, and divine youth beams on us. He doffs
the mantle of rags, and royal splendors clothe him. He lifts the
hood, and behold the crown. He raises the crutch, and lo! the rod
of power.

He drops the scythe of death for the jewel of eternal life.

"Om Mani Padme Um." (Oh the jewel in the lotus.)

O child of Adam!

Meditate on the transmutations of life. Behold the earthly miracle
of the caterpillar and the butterfly, of the toiling mortal and the
transcendent God!

TABLET THE EIGHTH

Uranus

SYMBOL

A human eye, from which darts lightning
upon an ocean of matter.

VIII

REFLECTION

TABLET THE EIGHTH

The state of soul and spirit--penetration; the wonderful power of
soul-perception, which sheds its light on all visible things, receiving
their images and interpreting them into the spirit, the all-seer--what
does it not convey?

The perception that can see deep into your soul and see, as it were,
the yet unborn thought; that can distinguish the motive of action;
that judges the realities of your soul.

Such is the Astral Uranian. For with us all, are three planes of
mind: The drift plane, the intellectual, and the spiritual, or internal
plane; and thought- reading can be on one or all of these different
states.

But only the Uranian seer can read the inmost mind, and so really
know the possibilities of your spirit.

Imagine an image of soft wax, covered with a sensitive skin. All impressions
on the skin shape the plastic wax, but go no deeper-- do not reach
the soul.

You can separate these impressions from your real self, when calm and alone,
and look upon emotion as a surface play. But the tragedies of life
strike deep.

They affect the
soul, and go to the center of being. "Verbum sap."

O child of Adam!
Watch the tempest of life closely. The Ego may sit calm amidst the
storm, but, if that be stirred--BEWARE! The God acts; the soul alone
watches.

TABLET THE NINTH

Neptune

A Winged Globe.

IX

REFLECTION

TABLET
THE NINTH

An unknown quantity, a hope of progression, ideal love,
and all true mental and spiritual ideals; aspiration to become that
which we feel to be noble and true; the symbol of the monad, the soul
which, receiving its life from the Sun--the Ego--is constantly revealing
new forces and potencies of that God-life. Each soul's Ego is its
maker and God. The Ego is like the Deific potency of the universe,
unlimited in potential power, but limited by its monad as to what
will be evolved from its awful depth of being. Deity progresses through
its expressions of the cosmos. The Ego, your God, finds progressive
expression through you, through your soul. That soul is not immortal
that becomes separated from its Ego--its God. So, soul, spread your
spiritual wings and soar upward.

O child of Adam! Know these three
things: Eternity is the creator of the universal life; universal life
creates the world, and the world is the creator of time. And of these,
the Universe is Life, and the World is Mind, and Time is the Soul. The effect of this was that a minute later they
had quitted the place, the gratified waiter alert again at the open door. Strether had found
himself deferring to his companion's abruptness as to a hint that he should be answered as
soon as they were more isolated.  This happened when after a few steps in the outer air they
had turned the next comer. There our friend had kept it up. "Why isn't he free if he's good?"

Little Bilham looked him full in the face.  "Because it's a virtuous attachment."

This had settled the question so effectually for the time--that is for the next few days--that
it had given Strether almost a new lease of life.  It must be added however that, thanks to
his constant habit of shaking the bottle in which life handed him the wine of experience, he
presently found the taste of the lees rising as usual into his draught. His imagination had
in other words already dealt with his young friend's assertion; of which it had made something
that sufficiently came out on the very next occasion of his seeing Maria Gostrey.  This occasion
moreover had been determined promptly by a new circumstance--a circumstance he was the last
man to leave her for a day in ignorance of.  "When I said to him last night," he immediately
began, "that without some definite word from him now that will enable me to speak to them over
there of our sailing--or at least of mine, giving them some sort of date--my responsibility
becomes uncomfortable and my situation awkward; when I said that to him what do you think was
his reply?"  And then as she this time gave it up:  "Why that he has two particular friends,
two ladies, mother and daughter, about to arrive in Paris--coming back from an absence; and
that he wants me so furiously to meet them, know them and like them, that I shall oblige him
by kindly not bringing our business to a crisis till he has had a chance to see them again
himself.  Is that," Strether enquired, "the way he's going to try to get off?  These are the
people," he explained, "that he must have gone down to see before I arrived.  They're the best
friends he has in the world, and they take more interest than any one else in what concerns
him.  As I'm his next best he sees a thousand reasons why we should comfortably meet.  He hasn't
broached the question sooner because their return was uncertain--seemed in fact for the present
impossible.  But he more than intimates that--if you can believe it--their desire to make my
acquaintance has had to do with their surmounting difficulties."

"They're dying to see you?" Miss Gostrey asked.

"Dying.  Of course," said Strether, "they're the virtuous attachment." He had already told
her about that--had seen her the day after his talk with little Bilham; and they had then threshed
out together the bearing of the revelation.  She had helped him to put into it the logic in
which little Bilham had left it slightly deficient Strether hadn't pressed him as to the object
of the preference so unexpectedly described; feeling in the presence of it, with one of his
irrepressible scruples, a delicacy from which he had in the quest of the quite other article
worked himself sufficiently free.  He had held off, as on a small principle of pride, from
permitting his young friend to mention a name; wishing to make with this the great point that
Chad's virtuous attachments were none of his business.  He had wanted from the first not to
think too much of his dignity, but that was no reason for not allowing it any little benefit
that might turn up.  He had often enough wondered to what degree his interference might pass
for interested; so that there was no want of luxury in letting it be seen whenever he could
that he didn't interfere.  That had of course at the same time not deprived him of the further
luxury of much private astonishment; which however he had reduced to some order before communicating
his knowledge.  When he had done this at last it was with the remark that, surprised as Miss
Gostrey might, like himself, at first be, she would probably agree with him on reflexion that
such an account of the matter did after all fit the confirmed appearances.  Nothing certainly,
on all the indications, could have been a greater change for him than a virtuous attachment,
and since they had been in search of the "word" as the French called it, of that change, little
Bilham's announcement--though so long and so oddly delayed--would serve as well as another.
She had assured Strether in fact after a pause that the more she thought of it the more it
did serve; and yet her assurance hadn't so weighed with him as that before they parted he hadn't
ventured to challenge her sincerity.  Didn't she believe the attachment was virtuous?--he had
made sure of her again with the aid of that question. The tidings he brought her on this second
occasion were moreover such as would help him to make surer still.

She showed at first none the less as only amused.  "You say there are two?  An attachment to
them both then would, I suppose, almost necessarily be innocent."

Our friend took the point, but he had his clue.  "Mayn't he be still in the stage of not quite
knowing which of them, mother or daughter, he likes best?"

She gave it more thought.  "Oh it must be the daughter--at his age."

"Possibly.  Yet what do we know," Strether asked, "about hers?  She may be old enough."

"Old enough for what?"

"Why to marry Chad.  That may be, you know, what they want.  And if Chad wants it too, and
little Bilham wants it, and even we, at a pinch, could do with it--that is if she doesn't prevent
repatriation--why it may be plain sailing yet."

It was always the case for him in these counsels that each of his remarks, as it came, seemed
to drop into a deeper well.  He had at all events to wait a moment to hear the slight splash
of this one. These are wonderful stimulants to the delicate child and should precede the salt glow twice
a week. Every afternoon a hot-and-cold foot bath may be given to create a better circulation. The feet
are put in hot water from three to five minutes (as hot as can be borne),
and then they are quickly plunged into the coldest water obtainable
for three seconds, then back into the hot water, and vice versa,
until three changes have been made, always finishing the treatment
with the cold dip.

On the three remaining days of the week at half past three, the child
will simply relax in the hammock or on the porch couch while the
mother aids in the relaxation by a pleasant story.

We would suggest that on Monday the salt glow be administered; Tuesday
a rest is taken; Wednesday the soap shampoo is to be administered;
Thursday another rest; Friday a salt glow; Saturday another rest,
and Sunday the shampoo, etc.

Before going to bed at night, with the mother's hands well oiled with
either olive or sweet oil, the circulation is again stimulated by
the heavy friction rub.

Constipation is taken care of along the same lines as mentioned elsewhere
in this book.

It is surprising to see how often these delicate children are infested
by worms, and while a great deal of dependence cannot be put in that
single symptom "grinding the teeth at night," or "pallor around the
mouth," yet we do believe that many a delicate child continues to
suffer from worms many years.

It is a very simple procedure to obtain a specimen of the stools. A cathartic
should be given and after usual free-bowel movement, the second time
the child desires to go to stool this should be saved and taken to
the laboratory for a careful search for worm eggs which are usually
in evidence if worms infest the child.

The treatment for worms is described elsewhere in this work.

We have seen scores of young people between the ages of eight and eleven
who, before treatment, were pale, listless, under weight, irritable
and cross, after three months of such treatment as has been outlined
gain six to ten pounds and look as ruddy as their healthiest neighborhood
friends.

It is perfectly marvelous to notice how a child will put on from six to eight
pounds in a short period, at the same time overcoming his irritableness
and fretfulness. I am more and more inclined to believe that most
bad children are sick children--are undernourished children--and it
behooves us American mothers and fathers to give proper attention to
this undernourished child, call a halt, and devote three months to
giving him the help that he needs.

He did not ask to come into this world; and it is "up to us" to give
this child what he deserves--for every child in this world has a
right to be well born, to be well fed, and to be well reared.

CHAPTER XL

TEACHING TRUTH

We confidently believe that most of the sex immorality seen in young people
is more or less the result of ignorance and curiosity; therefore we
most earnestly desire in this chapter to portray so interestingly
the beautiful story of life as seen in the vegetable and animal world,
that our mother-readers will be seized with the great desire wisely
to convey to the young child's mind this sublime and beautiful story.

The questions most naturally arising in the mind of the reader at this time
are: When shall we begin to tell this story? How shall we tell it? Where shall
we begin? Where shall we stop? Realizing full well that the subject is usually
handled prematurely and with unpreparedness, we will attempt in this chapter
to discuss it with courage and candor, believing that there is a right way,
a right time, and a right place to impart this information.

A LESSON FROM NATURE

When the little folks are about three or four years of age, when confidence
and trust are at their height, they often come to us begging for a "story;"
and this is the golden opportunity for the parent or caretaker to
tell them the story of Mr. and Mrs. Corn, and all their little babies;
or Mr. and Mrs. Morning Glory and their little folks.

There are a score of other equally interesting and instructive botanical
stories which are just as beautiful in their sublimity, and fairy-like
in their personality.

The
little children's eyes grow big with wonder as you tell the story of a
whole township of families by the name of Corn (See Fig. 17), who have their
residences out in the wide country fields.

We will first introduce the child to Mr. Corn, the tassel, waving proudly
and majestically in the breezes, and seeming to say: "I am master
of all I survey."

The little fellow is filled with wonderment as he learns how the clouds
give up their drops of water to quench his thirst and how the sun smiles upon
him to yellow his beard; and how the wonderful all-important pollen is developed
and ripened.

Often the child eagerly asks, "And where, mamma, is Mrs. Corn?" and
to that interested upturned face we relate the pleasing story of the
beautiful silken tresses of Mother Corn. Early in her life she is a beautiful
shade of green, and as she thus gracefully hangs out from the ear of corn,
day by day the smiles of sunshine turn this mother corn to brown,
and then to a still darker shade.

"And where, mamma, are the babies?" the child next inquires; and, as we
take the ear of corn, removing the outer clothing--the husks--we
find the underclothing, a much lighter shade of green, and here now
we are in close contact with the babies themselves--the kernels--and
to each little kernel or baby corn we find mamma closely clinging.

Here is a beautiful opportunity to teach mother-love and mother watchfulness, as also the opportunity to
draw lessons from the baby kernels sitting there in even rows, with their faces
clean, silently contented--just doing their duty. The stories that may be told
are limitless, and possibly as interesting as are the myths and fairy-tales, yet
all the while as true as truth itself, with no fakery, no legends--just
simple truth.

THE ALL IMPORTANT POLLEN

Now on a second trip into the cornfield, another story may be told of the
important work of the pollen. This "father part" of the plant falls upon the
silken tresses of the "mother part," by which the pollen is carried down
to the sleeping corn-baby seeds--the kernels.

And when the "corn dust" does reach the sleeping seeds a great change begins to take place. This change is
known to the adult as "impregnation;" to the little child it may be
presented as "an awakening" of the sleeping seeds, so that they begin to
grow, to develop, to expand and push out, until we have the full-grown seeds
seen in the delicious and juicy roasting ear.

Sometimes, in the case of the larger plants and trees, Father Tree may be miles and
miles away from Mother Tree and so this all important pollen must
be carried by the wind or by the bees, and as it blows against the
mother part of the plant-flower she catches it and pushes it downward
to the seed babies.

The wind scatters the pollen of the oak tree, the hazlenut, the walnut, the birch,
the willow and many others; for, without the good kind wind or the
bees, the pollen would never find its way to many a mother flower,
and the "fertilization" of the seed could not take place.

THE MORNING GLORY FAMILY

Perhaps the story of life can be told as beautifully from the morning-glory
as from any other flower. Here the beautiful flower cup is the home of Father
and Mother Morning-Glory and all their little babies. (See Fig. 18).

As we carefully take away their little home, the flower cup, we have
left a little green cup, and coming up from the center you will see five
little stems, every one of them wearing a hat of powder or pollen and
this--if you please--is Papa Morning-Glory. Look closely and you will
see coming up from the center of these five stems (stamens) one central
stalk without a hat, Mother Morning-Glory, known in botany as the
"pistil"; and as you follow down this pistil you will find an enlarged
part at the base, which is known as the cradle-nest--the home of the
seed babies.

Little was known about this wonderful fertilization of the seeds by
the pollen two hundred years ago, and a whole century passed before
the secret of the blossom and the bees was discovered; and even then
it was not fully realized how great was the work of the bees in cross-fertilization.

Nor was it understood that the beautiful blossom of the flower, with
its sweet nectar, was an exceedingly important factor in attracting
the bees. Another century passed before Darwin gave to the world the
story of the great work performed by the bees in cross-fertilization--in
carrying the pollen from flower to flower, for it is now a well-known
fact that all of the blossoms visited by the bees produce better fruit
and better flowers.

In the flower where the father and mother part matures at the same time,
self-fertilization is the rule. Cross-fertilization occurs in instances
where either the father part or mother part ripen at different times, in
these cases the pollen is carried from plant to plant by the wind or by
the nectar-seeking bees. These busy bees, with their fluffy little feet
and fuzzy coats, become completely covered with this all-important
flower dust, and in seeking nectar from other flowers they leave
the "awakening dust" behind, and thus cross-fertilization takes place;
new types of babies are produced, new generations of fruits and flowers.

HOW

MOTHER NATURE WORKS

Dr. Chadwick, in her Blossom Babies, gives us a beautiful recital concerning
the fertilization of plants, which provides an endless number of interesting
stories. The water plants are very interesting in that the pollen is just
light enough to float on the exact level of the mother part of the
flower, otherwise fertilization could never take place, and there
would be no more lovely lilies.

Long throated blossoms are fertilized by their attraction for certain moths or
humming birds who have long tongues. Mother Nature is exceedingly careful to reproduce
her children, and in every conceivable way she sees to it that her plant-seeds
are fertilized and distributed. We are all familiar with the dandelion and
the thistle and a host of others which fly through the air with actual
plumes, some seeds fly with wings, such as the maple; other seeds
travel by clinging or sticking, such as the cockle burr; still others
float and shoot; while we all know about a lot of seeds that are
good to eat, such as the nuts and fruits, as well as many of the grains,
such as corn, etc.

An incubator about hatching time is a wonderful object lesson in teaching
the story of life.

Take the children to visit one and let them actually see the live baby chicks
coming forth from the seed-shells. Other wonderful lessons may be drawn
from the mother horse or the mother cow; and it is impossible to portray
the close companionship, the sublime trust and confidence, which exists between
the mother and the child who have been bound together by these ties
and sentiments of truthfulness, trustfulness, and frankness.

THE SALMON FAMILY

The little fellow is daily learning that everything that grows comes from
a seed, even the salmon which was eaten at lunch yesterday was the text
for an impressive story about Papa and Mamma Salmon.

In the beautiful Columbia river Mother Salmon is swimming about quietly seeking
a shallow place in the stream where she may deposit her cluster of baby
seeds, which looks very much like a mass of tapioca pudding as they gently
sink to the bed of a shallow spot in the river. There they lay "sound asleep" until Father
Salmon, swimming by, is attracted to the spot and, hesitating, talks something
like this to himself: "Why the idea, here are some helpless fish-baby
seeds, they can't grow and develop without me, here they are sound
asleep;" and, nestling over them, he contributes the self-same and
all important "something"--comparable to the pollen of the plants--which
wakes them up.

In the case of the fish the "awakening" substance is not in the form of a powder
as in the plant world; but is in the form of a semi-liquid mass, much
resembling the white of an egg. The little seeds soon begin to tremble--begin
to wake up--and then begin to swell and grow and develop. In a few
days what do you suppose happens to these little bulging baby seeds?
The very same thing that happened to the chick seed--they burst and out
come hundreds of cute little fish minnows.

In just a few hours they are all swimming about in a most wonderful
fish-like manner.

EARLY QUESTIONS

Some day you will be surprised by your little child suddenly asking
you some such question as this: "Mother, where did I come from?" while
in the same frank manner you reply: "Why from your mamma, of course;
where do you think you could have come from?

Everything
that grows comes from its mamma--oranges, apples, radishes, cabbages, cats, dogs, and chickies--everything that grows has
to have a mamma and papa," and they are often satisfied with this answer
for a long time. No child should go to kindergarten without knowing
that he came from his mother, and this knowledge should come to him
from his own mother's lips.

These are different days than those in which our grandmothers lived. The spirit of investigation and
of inquiry is in the air. The moving-picture show makes it necessary
for children of nine or ten to understand these things--to have a knowledge
of certain of the conventionalities of life. Twenty years ago this
may not have been so necessary--the youth of that day might have
waited several years longer for certain phases of his sex instruction.

It is highly important that this knowledge be obtained from a wise
and pure and sympathetic mind--from the child's own parents.

One mother put her little girl's questions off week after week, saying:
"I will tell you when you get older, dear--no, not now, dear; run away,
you are not old enough to know such things, you must forget about
them." Thus the unprepared mother sought to gain time in which to consult
the doctor or the library. Finally the day came when the mother felt that
she was sufficiently wise to answer the query, "Where did I come
from," and so with her heart in her throat she approached her daughter,
saying: "Come, Mary, mother is going to tell you all about it.

I am now ready to answer your question." Imagine her surprise and astonishment when Mary said: "Oh, you
needn't mind, mother, Kate told me all about it last week."

Now the question in my mind is: how did Kate tell her? How much unnecessary information did this older
and experienced Kate put into the pure mind of this innocent little girl?

ONE
MOTHER'S AWAKENING

One mother in a western state--a county superintendent of schools--told us
the following interesting story of her own experience, which we think may be
of help to some of our mother readers.

One morning her seven-year old son rushed into the house exclaiming:
"Oh, mother, there is a new calf out in the barn, and I know where
it came from; I saw a wagon load of calves come by here yesterday,
and one of them must have dropped off, for it is right out there in
the barn with old Bess this minute."

The mother was very busy with her papers and her reports, and she
let the incident pass with a smile, thinking it was a very pretty
little story.

A week later the six-year old brother came in saying: "Mother, I think
there must have been another wagon load of calves passed by, and
one must have been lost off, for old Nell is cleaning up a little
calf out in the barn for all she is worth," while the older brother
piped up: "Sure, it was another load of calves; that is just exactly
the way the other calf got here;" and the two little fellows went
off to school.

About a month later that county superintendent suddenly became a much
wiser mother than she was before, although her heart was made to ache. Both
boys came home from school one day and the older one met her with
something like this: "I am mad! I've been lied to; all the fellows
at school say I have, and they are making sport of me, too," and with
a glare in his reddened eye he continued, "You know that new calf did
not come off that wagon; you know that calf came from old Bess herself;
all the fellows say so at school, and they are making all kinds of
fun of me, and I don't want to go back.

I'd like to run away from home."

The mother quietly drew the boy to her side and reminded him that she had
simply listened; that she had not opened her mouth; that he came into the
room and told about the incident himself, but this did not satisfy
him.

He turned to her wounded and crushed, saying: "Well, you let a fellow believe it,
and that's just as bad;" and this educated mother--this trusted custodian
of a county full of school children--beseeched me to warn mothers everywhere
to teach their children the truth, and to never let a child go to school with
a sex misunderstanding. She told me that it took her six months to get that
boy's confidence back again.

DON'T GET SHOCKED

I believe that many mothers make the sad mistake of showing the child that
they are shocked by trivial sayings and trifling experiences of their
little people. If we could only get it into our heads for once and for
all that our children are born into this world veritable little thieves
and falsifiers, as well as adventurers and explorers, we would then
cease being so shocked and outraged by their frank statements of what
they have heard or have done.

Let the mother listen to all these things with calmness, while she seeks
to direct the child's mind in pure and elevated channels--to help him
upward by imparting "precept upon precept; here a little and there a little."

Children
will come in with stories that at first thought do greatly shock the
parent; but under no circumstances should the boy or girl discover
that the parent is shocked, for if he does he will not likely come again
with another such "shocking" difficulty. One mother told me that her seven-year-old
boy, beginning third grade, came into her bedroom one morning saying: "Mother,
I am just busting to say something," and this mother very wisely
said, "Well, say it; certainly I don't want you to burst," and she
told me that this boy whispered to her three of the filthiest words
that he could possibly have heard on the streets. In relating this
experience to me she said: "Do you know, doctor, that I really did
not know what to think at first, but I remembered that you had taught
me never to be shocked, and so I looked up and asked: "Do you feel
better?" whereupon he breathed a big sigh and exclaimed: "What a relief!

I have just been busting to say that to somebody." Mother, to whom
would you rather he would say these things? to you, or to some little
girl out on the street, or to some older boy? Think what trouble and
possible mischief were avoided by whispering into the sympathetic
ear of mother.

This wise mother turned to that little boy and said: "Son, that ear
is always waiting for just such things and whenever you feel like saying
something--like getting it off your mind--you just come to me;" and he came
repeatedly.

One time he came in saying: "I don't know whether you want me to play with Harold or not; he does some of those things you
told me about the other day." And the mother thoughtfully and wisely looked
up and said: "Did he do it in front of his mother? Why of course he
didn't. Did he ask you to go into the bedroom or bathroom and lock the door?"
and the little fellow quickly answered: "Why sure he did; how did you
guess it?" and added "now I suppose you are not going to let me play
with him any more," and this wise mother, knowing that if she denied
him this privilege that it would quite likely be frequently sought,
said: "Why, certainly play with Harold in the open, but whenever he
suggests secrecy--" she did not have time to finish the sentence,
the boy said: "I am wise; whenever he gets to doing that 'funny business'
I'll skiddoo."

The confidence between that mother and son, to my mind, was wonderfully
sublime--all the while practical and helpful in his daily training.

DON'T
REPULSE THE CHILD

A little older child sees the fowls, the dogs, or the cats, "mating," and
then, rushing into the house, inquires what it is all about; and unless
the mother is on her guard some older member of the family may show
surprise and thus thoughtlessly convey to the child's mind that his
question is improper and entirely out of place. To the question,
"What are they doing, mamma?" quietly answer, "Just mating, dear, just as the
flowers mate; everything that lives or grows comes as the result
of mating."

Suppose that you were repulsed every time you approached a dear friend,
your husband, or some other member of the family? Take, for instance,
the matter of a caress or an embrace--how would you react to repeated
rebuff? And so with the little child; he comes into this world full
of confidence and trust, full of wonder and curiosity; possessed with
the spirit of exploration and investigation--everywhere and all the
time he asks questions.

Usually, his questions are answered thoughtfully and without hesitancy, except along the line of one thought--that
of sex. Do not think for one moment that he is satisfied by your evasive answers. You have but to recall
your own childhood experiences, and remember that today the moving picture
show and general public sentiment has placed the age for such knowledge
from one to five years earlier in this generation than in the past.
 I mean to poor young wretches of all sorts.  And yet it's
always as charming as this; it's as if, by something in the air, our squalor didn't show. 
It puts us all back--into the last century."

"I'm afraid," Strether said, amused, "that it puts me rather forward: oh ever so far!"

"Into the next? But isn't that only," little Bilham asked, "because you're really of the century
before?"

"The century before the last? Thank you!" Strether laughed.  "If I ask you about some of the
ladies it can't be then that I may hope, as such a specimen of the rococo, to please them."

"On the contrary they adore--we all adore here--the rococo, and where is there a better setting
for it than the whole thing, the pavilion and the garden, together? There are lots of people
with collections," little Bilham smiled as he glanced round.  "You'll be secured!"

It made Strether for a moment give himself again to contemplation. There were faces he scarce
knew what to make of.  Were they charming or were they only strange? He mightn't talk politics,
yet he suspected a Pole or two.  The upshot was the question at the back of his head from the
moment his friend had joined him.  "Have Madame de Vionnet and her daughter arrived?"

"I haven't seen them yet, but Miss Gostrey has come.  She's in the pavilion looking at objects.
One can see SHE'S a collector," little Bilham added without offence.

"Oh yes, she's a collector, and I knew she was to come.  Is Madame de Vionnet a collector?"
Strether went on.

"Rather, I believe; almost celebrated."  The young man met, on it, a little, his friend's eyes.
"I happen to know--from Chad, whom I saw last night--that they've come back; but only yesterday.
He wasn't sure--up to the last.  This, accordingly," little Bilham went on, "will be--if they
ARE here--their first appearance after their return." 

OUR COMMON HUMANITY.

Here is a letter found on one of the German dead, a man with “a good
face, strong and kindly,” so wrote the Daily Mail correspondent. “My
dearest Heart,” runs the letter, “when the little ones have said
their prayers and prayed for their dear father, and have gone to bed,
I sit and think of thee, my love.

I think of all the old days when we were betrothed, and I think of all
our happy married life. Oh! Ludwig, beloved of my soul, why should
people fight each other?

I cannot think that God would wish it....”

Here in this leafy place Quiet he lies; Cold, with his sightless face
Turned to the skies; ’Tis but another dead: All you can say is said.

Carry the body hence; Kings must have slaves; Kings rise to eminence
Over men’s graves; So this man’s eyes are dim.

Cast the earth over him.

What was that white you touched, There by his side?

Paper his hand had clutched Tight ere he died?

Message or wish, maybe? Smooth out its folds and see.

* * *

Ah! That beside the dead Slumbered the pain! Ah! That the hearts that bled
Slept with the slain! That the grief died. But no! Death will not
have it so.

These words of Austin Dobson were written of a French sergeant in an
earlier war, yet they serve equally well for the German soldier in
this. Strange that we leave it to the dead to prove their brotherhood
and ours.

Philip Gibbs tells us how in a German dug-out he picked up some letters.

“They were all written to ‘dear brother Wilhelm,’ from sisters and
brothers, sending him their loving greetings, praying that his health
might be good, promising to send him gifts of food and yearning for
his home-coming.” They were anxious, for here had been no news for
some time.

“Every time the postman comes we hope for a little note from you.” Can any generous
heart think of that anxious waiting unmoved? Shall we children of one
Life wait till we have wholly darkened each other’s homes, and then
call our handiwork peace?

But by that time, by the judgment of God, our eyes will be opened.

We who are bound by the same grief for ever, When all our sons are dead may
talk together, Each asking pardon of the other one, For her dead son.[52]

It is we at home who seem to yield only to this dread proof. With the
fighters it is often different, as we have seen, and though the stories
savour of repetition, the repetition is surely worth while. I have
aimed here at no literary production, but simply at a collection
of facts that may reach the heart.

“We sing,” said a soldier from Baden, “to the accompaniment of the
piano—especially during the interval for dinner. We have indeed entered
into a tacit agreement with the French to stop all fire between 12
and 1 o’clock, so that they and we might not be disturbed when we
feed.” (Zeitung am Mittag, as quoted in the Daily Chronicle, November
10, 1914.) “One of our teachers, a lieutenant in the R.F.A., who has
been out most of the time, had a few days’ leave some weeks ago.

He said to the school, assembled to do him honour, ‘Boys, do not believe
the stories you read about the Germans in the newspapers. Whatever they
may have done at the beginning of the war, the German is a brave and noble
soldier, and after the war we must be friends.’” (From a private letter.)
A soldier writes that a diary he kept was blown to bits by a shell.

He gave what remained of it to a wounded German who pleaded for it.
He had met many German Socialists in the fighting. “It is a blessing
to meet such men and amid all the slaughter brought about by our present
system, it seems heaven upon earth.” (Labour Leader, June 24, 1915.)

ARE
WE ALWAYS CHIVALROUS?

It will only be making the amende honorable if we do our best now to
spread reports of good deeds of the enemy, for in the early stages of
the war we deliberately deleted them from messages, and we have certainly
done a great deal to conceal them ever since.

Writing
to the Times in October, 1914, Mr. Herbert Corey, the American correspondent,
said: “The Times leader quotes the Post as charging that I ‘flatly made
the charge that dispatches had been altered for the purpose of hiding
the truth and blackening the German character.’ I do not recollect
this phrase.

I did charge that dispatches of German atrocities were permitted to go through unaltered, and that sentences
in other dispatches in which credit was given the Germans for courtesy and kindness were deleted.
I abide by that statement.”

There have been many angry references to unfair German attempts to influence
neutral opinion. A letter such as Mr. Corey’s makes me able to understand
why some neutrals have accused England of the very same unfairness.

There is other testimony to the same effect. Mr. Edward Price Bell,
London Correspondent of the Chicago Daily News, has, in a pamphlet published
by Fisher Unwin, indicted the British censorship in the following terms:

I call the censorship chaotic because of the chaos in its administration.
I call it political because it has changed or suppressed political
cables.

I call it discriminatory because there are flagrant instances of its not
holding the scales evenly between correspondents and newspapers. I
call it unchivalrous because it has been known to elide eulogies of enemy
decency and enemy valour. I call it destructive because its function is to
destroy; it has no constructive function whatever. I call it in effect
anti-British and pro-German because its tendency—one means, of course,
its unconscious tendency—often is to elevate the German name for veracity
and for courage above the British.

I call it ludicrous, because it has censored such matter as Kipling’s “Recessional” and Browning’s poetry.
I call it incompetent because one can perceive no sort of collective
efficiency in its work. And because of the sum of these things I give
it the final descriptive—“incredible.”—Daily News, January 7, 1916.

There is no doubt that people often fear to tell of German good deeds.
An acquaintance of mine told me that his boy got decorated for bringing
in a badly wounded comrade from near the German trenches.

A little shamefacedly my informant went on: “I don’t mind telling you,
but I shouldn’t like it to be known generally here, that I know the Germans
act well sometimes. My boy wrote he would have had no chance, but
he heard the Germans give the order to cease fire.” My informant
evidently feared the neighbours would call him pro-German if he told
this to them, but he thought he might venture to tell a pacifist.[53]

One
notices this fear sometimes in rather amusing ways.

In a railway compartment with me were a loud-mouthed patriotic woman “war-worker”
and a mere soldier back from the front. I’m afraid I got a little at
loggerheads with the war-worker, who adopted in argument a kind of
furious grin which revealed a formidable row of teeth that in my mind-picture
of her have become symbolically almost gigantic. I turned for relief
to the mere soldier, and while the train was moving we had a pleasant
dip into soldier philosophy.

“I’ve come to the conclusion that there’s good and bad everywhere,” he
said. “I’ve known bad Germans, and I’ve known Germans to look after
our wounded as well as a British Tommy could look after his chum.”
There was more to this effect, but whenever the train stopped and our
voices became audible to others, we were silent. The fear of that row
of teeth was, I think in both our hearts, and I could see the mere soldier
looking timid before them.

Fair play to the enemy’s character is a concession not quite so easy
to the average Englishman as he supposes.

“The Anglo-Saxon race has never been remarkable for magnanimity towards a fallen
foe.” Just now, when we are inclined to be almost afraid of the excess of chivalry
which possesses us, there may be useful corrective in these words of
Lieutenant-General Sir William Butler, K.C.B. There has been much
searching of old history books of late to find out what was said in
the days of Tacitus against the Germans.[54] (What Tacitus said in
their favour is not considered.) Perhaps on the other side there are investigators
searching their history books for ancient opinions of the English.

“Strike well these English,” said Duke William to his Normans, “show no weakness
towards these English, for they will have no pity for you. Neither the coward for running
well, nor the bold man for fighting well will be better liked by
the English, nor will any be more spared on either account.” Butler
approved this verdict.

We shall
not readily agree with him. Yet he did not speak without cause: he had
known an English general kick the dead body of an African King, who “was
a soldier every inch of him,” and he had known the colonists spit
upon an African chief brought bound and helpless through Natal.

(“Far Out,” p. 131.) I believe myself there is a great and ready
generosity in the hearts of the English people, but he must surely be a
man invariably on the “correct” side who has not more than once come
across the official Englishman who could be a bully to those in his power.

SOME
BRITISH OPINIONS.

“I am disgusted by the accounts I see in the papers of the inferiority of
Germans as soldiers. Don’t believe one word of it.

They are quite splendid in every way. Their courage, efficiency, organisation,
equipment and leading are all of the very best, and never surpassed
by any troops ever raised.

They come on in masses against our trenches and machine guns, and come time after time,
and they are never quiescent, but always on the offensive. I am full
of admiration for them, and so are all who know anything about them.

It is a pity that such fine soldiers should have behaved so badly in Belgium
and here; they have behaved badly, there is no doubt about it, but nothing
like what is said of them—any way in parts I have been through.” These
words from a General Officer commanding a brigade occur in a letter
published in the Times of November 19, 1914.

Yet these “quite splendid” fighters are the men of whom a learned professor appointed by the Government
has written that they are “rotten to the core.” There is some discrepancy
here. “They are great workers, these Germans,” wrote Philip Gibbs
(Daily Chronicle, July 5, 1916), “and wonderful soldiers.”

“An officer of the Sydney gave a quite enthusiastic account of the officers of the Emden. ‘Vitthoef, the
torpedo lieutenant, was a thoroughly nice fellow. Lieutenant Schal was also a good fellow
and half English. It quite shook them when they found that the captain
had asked that there be no cheering on entering Colombo, but we certainly
did not want cheering with rows of badly wounded men (almost all German) laid
out in cots on the quarter deck.

Captain von Müller is a very fine fellow.... The day he was leaving the ship at Colombo, he came up
to me on the quarter-deck and thanked me in connection with the rescue of the
wounded, shook hands and saluted, which was very nice and polite of him....
Prince Hohenzollern was a decent enough fellow.

In fact, we seemed to agree that it was our job to knock one another
out, but there was no malice in it.’ This is the ideal fighting, ‘with
no malice in it.’ It has been achieved by many English and Germans,
and that gives hope for the future. Let us make the most, not the least,
of what points towards a better understanding.... At the beginning
of November ‘Eye-Witness’ records how English prisoners had been sheltered
by the Germans in cellars to protect them from the bombardment of
their own side.

An Anglo-Indian tells of a wounded havildar who was noticed by a German officer. ‘The German officer
spoke to him in Hindustani, asking him the number of his regiment, and
where he came from. He bound up his wounds, gave him a drink, and
brought him a bundle of straw to support his head.

This will be remembered to the credit side of our German account.’

“A wounded officer addressed some students at one of our universities.
He protested humorously that he was not a ‘pro-German,’ and then
spoke up for a fair view of the enemy.

When he was being carried into hospital, he noticed an anti-aircraft gun just outside the hospital.
This struck him as, to say the least, unwise. He expected the hospital to be shelled, and this occurred.
He did not blame the Germans. On another occasion a farm near the firing
line was used for first aid. It was not obviously a hospital and was fired on.
The Commanding Officer sent a note to Von Kluck to explain matters,
and the farm was never after exposed to fire.[55] He had seen a church
damaged by German shell fire, but this was one which he had himself
seen used by the French for observation purposes.[56] The same officer
uttered a warning against believing all that was in the ‘Tommies’
letters.

At one time when he was censoring letters, one passed through his hands from a Tommy only just
arrived in France, and never in the firing line. He described an immense battle in which the English
did wonders and he himself had marvellous duties to perform.

As far as the military situation was concerned the letter was quite harmless,
so it was allowed to go through. It was something like the intelligence
to the publication of which the Press Bureau ‘does not object.’”[57][58]

In
her book, “My War Experiences on Two Continents,” Miss Macnaughten
writes of the Germans: “Individually, I always like them, and it is
useless to say I don’t. They are all polite and grateful, and I thought
to-day, when the prisoners were surrounded by a gaping crowd, that
they bore themselves very well.” (p. 127).

Again, “I found one young German with both hands smashed. He was not
ill enough to have a bed, of course, but sat with his head fallen
forward trying to sleep on a chair.

I fed him with porridge and milk out of a little bowl, and when he had finished
half of it he said, ‘I won’t have any more.

I am afraid there will be none for the others.’” (p. 37.) Unfortunately,
Miss Macnaughten too readily accepted war stories. She writes of “country
houses” where he heard German prisoners here lived in luxury, “and they
say girls are allowed to come and play lawn tennis with them.” The humour
of this will be apparent to any who have visited internment camps. Lawn
tennis was, however, possible at some camps, both here and in Germany—there were
seven courts at Ruhleben. Some of the atrocity stories many of us will
recognise as not so reliable as Miss Macnaughten supposed. It is her
personal experiences which are important, and, like the Scotchman[59] (whom
she quotes) she has, not hatred, but respect, for the Germans whom
she herself meets.

THE EASE OF ACCUSATION.

Again and again, everywhere, we find readiness to accept stories against the enemy on
very slender evidence. At the time of the loss of our three cruisers
I saw in one of the better newspapers a large heading, “German Treachery.
Fighting under the Dutch Flag.” I looked down the columns for evidence.
No mention of such a circumstance in the official report, none in
the letter from the chief correspondent; but at last I found that
some one at Harwich had “heard of” such an incident.

We must remember that only cool and clear intellects are likely at such a time
to give an accurate account of facts. Between others mutual recrimination may readily
arise. An officer on H.M.A.S. Sydney wrote after the attack on the Emden:
“It was very interesting talking to some of the German officers afterwards. On the
first day they were on board one said to me, ‘You fire on the white
flag.’ I at once took the matter up, and the torpedo-lieutenant and an engineer
(of the Emden) both said emphatically, ‘No, that is not so; you did not fire
on the white flag.’ But we did not leave it at that. One of us went
to the captain, and he got from Captain von Müller an assurance that
we had done nothing of the kind, and that he intended to assemble
his officers and tell them so.” Note how readily on the other side,
amongst those less responsible or less cool-headed, a tale may grow
up against us.

Let us observe in considering tales against them the same caution
that we should wish them to exercise in considering tales against
us.[60]

TROOPS IN OCCUPATION.

Witnesses from Brussels and from Ghent have spoken well of the personal behaviour of both soldiers and
officers. A neutral correspondent writes in the Times of January 28, 1915:

“On the whole it cannot be said that the behaviour of the German officers and soldiers towards the
population of Ghent is bad. When the German troops entered the city, strict injunctions were given them
to refrain from pillaging, and to pay for everything they bought in the shops, very much to the disgust
of many....”

Mr. Gabriel Mourey has written an account of his custody of the Palais
de Compiègne during the invasion.

The Times review of this book is so interesting that I propose to give some extracts from it:

First the palace served as the general headquarters of the British Army
during the last stage of the strategic retreat to the Marne; and
in the closing days of August, M. Mourey looked out of his window
to see Generals French and Joffre walking up and down the terrace
in consultation, while in the park English soldiers were shaving themselves
calmly before little pieces of broken mirror.

In
a night they had left Compiègne, blowing up the Louis XV. bridge (“utterly improved,”
and therefore no great loss).

On the next day came the Uhlans, by no means so terrible as they had been painted....
Von Kluck was to make his headquarters there for a day, and the first announcement
of the doubtful honour was brought by an engineer lieutenant, who came
to make a wireless installation on the palace roof. He was very quick, but
he found time to inform the conservator that his name was Maurin, that it
was a French name. He repeated it many times, “C’est un nom français,”
and he was plainly proud of it. Then came Von Kluck himself, asking
in polite and excellent French that he might be shown over the palace.
Of him M. Mourey draws a by no means unattractive picture, urbane
yet reserved, with real admiration for the treasures of the Palace,
discreetly murmuring “Je sais” at the close of every explanation,
not offensively, but as though some long forgotten memory had returned
to him, making his frequent “Kolossal” sound in his conductor’s ears
as gently as the continual “Very nice” of the British Officer, and,
his visit over, promising that respect should be paid to the monument
of Imperial France.

But Von Kluck could not stay. He was followed by Von Marwitz, no less
polite, no less sympathetic to M. Mourey’s natural fears, and generous
enough to write and sign a proclamation forbidding his troops to
lay their hand upon the palace. He, too, went his way. Von Kluck’s Quartermaster-General
seized the opportunity of making a private levy of 5,000f. upon the
town before he sped like Gehazi after his master’s chariot.

Then ensued the brief reign of lesser men, stupid, brutal, blustering, bullying,
insulting, because they feared a civilisation which they could not
understand.

I think we know such men, and many privates know such men, elsewhere
than in the German army.

Germany may have cultivated them in greater numbers—that is highly probable—but they are rife everywhere,
and under favourable circumstances they thrive exceedingly.

Their insolent arrogance culminated in a certain aide-de-camp, who
arrived post-haste to say that the Palace must be instantly made ready
to receive an Excellence par excellence.

A man of imagination this aide-de-camp, for when at his command M. Mourey showed him over the palace
and pointed out the gaps in the collections made by the soldiers’ pilfery, he said with an all-explanatory
air, “But why didn’t you get souvenirs ready for the officers?” The Excellence
whom this right Brandenburger heralded was no less than the Kaiser
himself, and M. Mourey is convinced that it is to the Imperial intention
that the safety of Compiègne is owing. It may be: but we prefer to
think that honourable foes such as Von Kluck and Von Marwitz had
their share in the unusual consummation.[61]

“The Irish Nuns at Ypres”
gives an account of their experiences by a member of the Community.

  His French had quickly turned to equal English,
and it occurred to Strether that he might well be one of the ambassadors.  His design was evidently
to assert a claim to Madame de Vionnet's undivided countenance, and he made it good in the
course of a minute--led her away with a trick of three words; a trick played with a social
art of which Strether, looking after them as the four, whose backs were now all turned, moved
off, felt himself no master.

He sank again upon his bench and, while his eyes followed the party, reflected, as he had done
before, on Chad's strange communities.  He sat there alone for five minutes, with plenty to
think of; above all with his sense of having suddenly been dropped by a charming woman overlaid
now by other impressions and in fact quite cleared and indifferent.  He hadn't yet had so quiet
a surrender; he didn't in the least care if nobody spoke to him more.  He might have been,
by his attitude, in for something of a march so broad that the want of ceremony with which
he had just been used could fall into its place as but a minor incident of the procession.
Besides, there would be incidents enough, as he felt when this term of contemplation was closed
by the reappearance of little Bilham, who stood before him a moment with a suggestive "Well?"
in which he saw himself reflected as disorganised, as possibly floored.  He replied with a
"Well!" intended to show that he wasn't floored in the least.  No indeed; he gave it out, as
the young man sat down beside him, that if, at the worst, he had been overturned at all, he
had been overturned into the upper air, the sublimer element with which he had an affinity
and in which he might be trusted a while to float.  It wasn't a descent to earth to say after
an instant and in sustained response to the reference: "You're quite sure her husband's living?"

"Oh dear, yes."

"Ah then--!"

"Ah then what?"

Strether had after all to think.  "Well, I'm sorry for them."  But it didn't for the moment
matter more than that.  He assured his young friend he was quite content.  They wouldn't stir;
were all right as they were.  He didn't want to be introduced; had been introduced already
about as far as he could go.  He had seen moreover an immensity; liked Gloriani, who, as Miss
Barrace kept saying, was wonderful; had made out, he was sure, the half-dozen other 'men who
were distinguished, the artists, the critics and oh the great dramatist--HIM it was easy to
spot; but wanted--no, thanks, really--to talk with none of them; having nothing at all to say
and finding it would do beautifully as it was; do beautifully because what it was--well, was
just simply too late. And when after this little Bilham, submissive and responsive, but with
an eye to the consolation nearest, easily threw off some "Better late than never!" all he got
in return for it was a sharp "Better early than late!" Now, if you pronounce Hinges in the French fashion, you give
forth an exclamation of distressful pain. The name cannot be shouted from a motor-cycle. It
has its difficulties even for the student of French.

So we all called it, plainly and bluntly, Hinges, as though it were connected to a door. The inhabitants
noticed this. Thinking that they and their forefathers had been wrong--for surely these fine men with red
hats knew better than they--the English pronunciation spread. The village
became 'Ingees, and now only some unfashionable dotards in Béthune
preserve the tradition of the old pronunciation.

It is not only Hinges that has been thus decently attired in British garb. Le Cateau is Lee Catòo.
Boescheppe is Bo-peep. Ouderdon is Eiderdown.

Béthune was full of simple pleasures.

First there were the public baths, cheap and good, and sundry coiffeurs who were much in demand, for
they made you smell sweetly. Then there was a little blue and white
café.

The daughter of the house was well-favoured and played the piano
with some skill.

One of us spent all his spare time at this café in silent adoration--of
the piano, for his French was exiguous in the extreme.

There was a patisserie crammed full of the most delicious cream-cakes.
The despatch rider who went to Hinges about 3.30 P.M. and did not return
with cakes for tea, found life unpleasant.

Near
the station three damsels ruled a tavern. They were friendly and eager
to teach us French.

We might have left them with a sigh of regret if we had not once arrived as they were eating their midday
meal.

At one time the Germans dropped a few shells into Béthune, but did
little damage.

Bombs fell too. One nearly ended the existence of "Sadders"--also known as "Boo." It dropped on the other
side of the street; doing our despatch rider no damage, it slightly wounded Sergeant Croucher of the Cyclists
in a portion of his body that made him swear when he was classed as a "sitting-up case."

Of all the towns behind the lines--Béthune, Estaires, Armentières,
Bailleul, Poperinghe--Béthune is the pleasantest.

The people are charming. There is nothing you cannot buy there. It is
clean and well-ordered, and cheerful in the rain.

I pray that Béthune may survive the war--that after peace has been
declared and Berlin has been entered, I may spend a week there and
much money to the profit of the people and the satisfaction of myself.

Now I will give some account of our adventures out with the brigades round La
Bassée.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] The first--in October and November.

[16] This is not an unthinking advertisement. After despatch riding from
August 16 to February 18 my judgment should be worth something. I am
firmly convinced that if the Government could have provided all despatch
riders with Blackburnes, the percentage--at all times small--of messages
undelivered owing to mechanical breakdowns or the badness of the roads
would have been reduced to zero.

I have no interest in the Blackburne Company beyond a sincere admiration
of the machine it produces.

CHAPTER IX.

ROUND LA BASSÉE.

It had been a melancholy day, full of rain and doubting news.

Those of us who were not "out" were strolling up and down the platform arranging
the order of cakes from home and trying to gather from the sound
of the gunning and intermittent visits to the Signal Office what
was happening.

Someone had been told that the old 15th was being hard pressed. Each of
us regretted loudly that we had not been attached to it, though our
hearts spoke differently.

Despatch riders have muddled thoughts. There is a longing for the excitement of danger and a very earnest
desire to keep away from it.

The C.O. walked on to the platform hurriedly, and in a minute or two
I was off.

It was lucky that the road was covered with unholy grease, that the light was bad and there was transport
on the road--for it is not good for a despatch rider to think too much
of what is before him.

My instructions were to report to the general and make myself useful. I was also cheerfully informed
that the H.Q. of the 15th were under a robust shell-fire. Little parties
of sad-looking wounded that I passed, the noise of the guns, and the evil
dusk heartened me.

I rode into Festubert, which was full of noise, and, very hastily
dismounting, put my motor-cycle under the cover of an arch and reported
to the general.

He was sitting at a table in the stuffy room of a particularly dirty tavern. At the far end a fat and frightened
woman was crooning to her child.

Beside her sat a wrinkled, leathery old man with bandaged head. He had wandered into the street, and
he had been cut about by shrapnel. The few wits he had ever possessed were gone, and he gave every few seconds
little croaks of hate. Three telephone operators were working with strained
faces at their highest speed. The windows had been smashed by shrapnel, and bits
of glass and things crunched under foot. The room was full of noises--the
crackle of the telephones, the crooning of the woman, the croak of the
wounded old man, the clear and incisive tones of the general and his
brigade-major, the rattle of not too distant rifles, the booming
of guns and occasionally the terrific, overwhelming crash of a shell
bursting in the village.

I was given a glass of wine.

Cadell, the Brigade Signal Officer, and the Veterinary Officer, came up to me and talked cheerfully
in whispered tones about our friends.

There was the sharp cry of shrapnel in the street and a sudden rattle against
the whole house. The woman and child fled somewhere through a door, followed
feebly by the old man. The brigade-major persuaded the general to work in
some less unhealthy place.

The telephone operators moved. A moment's delay as the general endeavoured to
persuade the brigade-major to go first, and we found ourselves under
a stalwart arch that led into the courtyard of the tavern.

We lit pipes and cigarettes. The crashes of bursting shells grew more
frequent, and the general remarked in a dry and injured tone--

"Their
usual little evening shoot before putting up the shutters, I suppose."

But first the Germans "searched" the village. Now to search a village
means to start at one end of the village and place shells at discreet
intervals until the other end of the village is reached.

It is an unpleasant process for those in the middle of the village, even though they be standing,
as we were, in comparatively good shelter.

We heard the Germans start at the other end of the village street.

The crashes came nearer and nearer, until a shell burst with a scream and a thunderous roar just
on our right. We puffed away at our cigarettes for a second, and a certain despatch rider wished he were
anywhere but in the cursed village of Festubert by Béthune. There
was another scream and overwhelming relief. The next shell burst
three houses away on our left.

I knocked my pipe out and filled another.

The Germans finished their little evening shoot.

We marched back very slowly in the darkness to 1910 Farm.

This farm was neither savoury nor safe. It was built round a courtyard which consisted of a gigantic hole crammed
with manure in all the stages of unpleasant putrefaction. One side is a
barn; two sides consist of stables, and the third is the house inhabited
not only by us but by an incredibly filthy and stinking old woman who
was continually troubling the general because some months ago a French
cuirassier took one of her chickens. The day after we arrived at this farm
I had few despatches to take, so I wrote to Robert. Here is some of
the letter and bits of other letters I wrote during the following days.
They will give you an idea of our state of mind:[17]

If you want something of the dramatic--I am writing in a farm under shrapnel
fire, smoking a pipe that was broken by a shell.

For true effect I suppose I should not tell you that the shrapnel is bursting about fifty yards the other
side of the house, that I am in a room lying on the floor, and consequently
that, so long as they go on firing shrapnel, I am perfectly safe.

It's the dismallest of places. Two miles farther back the heavies are banging
away over our heads. There are a couple of batteries near the farm.

Two miles along the road the four battalions of our brigade are holding
on for dear life in their trenches.

The country is open plough, with little clumps of trees, sparse hedges,
and isolated cottages giving a precarious cover.

It's all very damp and miserable, for it was raining hard last night and the
day before.

I am in a little bare room with the floor covered with straw.

Two telegraph operators are making that infernal jerky clicking sound
I have begun so to hate.

Half a dozen men of the signal staff are lying about the floor looking at week-old papers. In the next room
I can hear the general, seated at a table and intent on his map, talking to
an officer that has just come from the firing line.

Outside the window a gun is making a fiendish row, shaking the whole house. Occasionally there is
a bit of a rattle--that's shrapnel bullets falling on the tiles of
an outhouse.

If you came out you might probably find this exhilarating.

I have just had a talk with our mutual friend Cadell, the Signal Officer of this brigade, and we have decided
that we are fed up with it. For one thing--after two months' experience
of shell fire the sound of a shell bursting within measurable distance
makes you start and shiver for a moment--reflex action of the nerves.

That is annoying. We both decided we would willingly change places with you and take a turn at
defending your doubtless excellently executed trenches at Liberton.

The line to the ----[18] has just gone. It's almost certain death to
relay it in the day-time. Cadell and his men are discussing the chances while
somebody else has started a musical-box. A man has gone out; I wonder
if he will come back.

The rest of the men have gone to sleep again. That gun outside the
window is getting on my nerves.

Well, well!

The shrapnel fire appears to have stopped for the present.

No, there's a couple together. If they fire over this farm I hope they
don't send me back to D.H.Q.

Do you know what I long for more than anything else? A clean, unhurried breakfast
with spotless napery and shining silver and porridge and kippers.
I don't think these long, lazy after-breakfast hours at Oxford were
wasted.

They are a memory and a hope out here. The shrapnel is getting nearer and more frequent. We are
all hoping it will kill some chickens in the courtyard. The laws against looting
are so strict.

What an excellent musical-box, playing quite a good imitation of Cavalleria
Rusticana. I guess we shall have to move soon. Too many shells. Too dark
to write any more----

After all, quite the most important things out here are a fine meal
and a good bath.

If you consider the vast area of the war the facts that we have lost two guns or advanced
five miles are of very little importance.

War, making one realise the hopeless insignificance of the individual,
creates in one such an immense regard for self, that so long as one
does well it matters little if four officers have been killed reconnoitring
or some wounded have had to be left under an abandoned gun all night.

I started with an immense interest in tactics. This has nearly all left
me and I remain a more or less efficient despatch-carrying animal--a
part of a machine realising the hopeless, enormous size of the machine.

The

infantry officer after two months of modern war is a curious phenomenon.[19]
He is probably one of three survivors of an original twenty-eight. He is not frightened
of being killed; he has forgotten to think about it. But there is
a sort of reflex fright. He becomes either cautious and liable to sudden
panics, or very rash indeed, or absolutely mechanical in his actions. The
first state means the approach of a nervous breakdown, the second
a near death.

There are very few, indeed, who retain a nervous balance and a calm judgment. And all have a harsh frightened
voice. If you came suddenly out here, you would think they were all mortally
afraid. But it is only giving orders for hours together under a
heavy fire.

Battle noises are terrific. At the present moment a howitzer is going strong behind
this, and the concussion is tremendous. The noise is like dropping a
traction-engine on a huge tin tray.

A shell passing away from you over your head is like the loud crackling of a newspaper close to
your ear. It makes a sort of deep reverberating crackle in the air, gradually
lessening, until there is a dull boom, and a mile or so away you
see a thick little cloud of white smoke in the air or a pear-shaped
cloud of grey-black smoke on the ground.

Coming
towards you a shell makes a cutting, swishing note, gradually getting higher and higher, louder and louder.
There is a longer note one instant and then it ceases. Shrapnel bursting
close to you has the worst sound.

It is almost funny in a village that is being shelled. Things simply disappear. You are standing
in an archway a little back from the road--a shriek of shrapnel. The
windows are broken and the tiles rush clattering into the street,
while little bullets and bits of shell jump like red-hot devils from
side to side of the street, ricochetting until their force is spent.

Or a deeper
bang, a crash, and a whole house tumbles down.

3/4-hour later.--Curious life this. Just after I had finished the last sentence, I was called out to take
a message to a battery telling them to shell a certain village.
Here am I wandering out, taking orders for the complete destruction
of a village and probably for the death of a couple of hundred men[20]
without a thought, except that the roads are very greasy and that
lunch time is near.

Again, yesterday, I put our Heavies in action, and in a quarter of an hour
a fine old church, with what appeared from the distance a magnificent
tower, was nothing but a grotesque heap of ruins.

The Germans were loopholing it for defence.

Oh the waste, the utter damnable waste of everything out here--men,
horses, buildings, cars, everything.

Those who talk about war being a salutary discipline are those who remain at home.
In a modern war there is little room for picturesque gallantry or picture-book
heroism. We are all either animals or machines, with little gained except
our emotions dulled and brutalised and nightmare flashes of scenes
that cannot be written about because they are unbelievable.

I wonder what difference you will find in us when we come home----

Do you know what a night scare is? In our last H.Q. we were all dining when
suddenly there was a terrific outburst of rifle-fire from our lines.
We went out into the road that passes the farm and stood there in
the pitch darkness, wondering.

The fire increased in intensity until every soldier within five miles seemed
to be revelling in a lunatic succession of "mad minutes." Was it
a heavy attack on our lines? Soon pom-poms joined in sharp, heavy
taps--and machine guns.

The lines to the battalions were at the moment working feebly, and
what the operators could get through was scarcely intelligible. Ammunition
limbers were hurried up, and I stood ready to dart anywhere. For twenty
minutes the rifle-fire seemed to grow wilder and wilder.

At last stretcher-bearers came in with a few wounded and reported
that we seemed to be holding our own. Satisfactory so far. Then there
were great flashes of shrapnel over our lines; that comforted us, for
if your troops are advancing you don't fire shrapnel over the enemy's
lines.

You never
know how soon they may be yours. The firing soon died down until we
heard nothing but little desultory bursts.

Finally an orderly came--the Germans had half-heartedly
charged our trenches but had been driven off with loss. We returned
to the farm and found that in the few minutes we had been outside everything
had been packed and half-frightened men were standing about for orders.

The
explanation of it all came later and was simple enough. The French, without
letting us know, had attacked the Germans on our right, and the Germans
to keep us engaged had made a feint attack upon us.

So we went
back to dinner.

In modern war the infantryman hasn't much of a chance. Strategy nowadays consists
in arranging for the mutual slaughter of infantry by the opposing guns,
each general trusting that his guns will do the greater slaughter.
And half gunnery is luck.

The day before yesterday we had a little afternoon shoot at where we thought
the German trenches might be.

The
Germans unaccountably retreated, and yesterday when we advanced we found
the trenches crammed full of dead. By a combination of intelligent anticipation
and good luck we had hit them exactly----

From
these letters you will be able to gather what mood we were in and something
of what the brigade despatch rider was doing. After the first day the Germans
ceased shrapnelling the fields round the farm and left us nearly in peace. There
I met Major Ballard, commanding the 15th Artillery Brigade, one of the finest
officers of my acquaintance, and Captain Frost, the sole remaining officer
of the Cheshires.

He was charming to me; I was particularly grateful
for the loan of a razor, for my own had disappeared and there were no despatch
riders handy from whom I could borrow.
Talking of the Cheshires reminds me of a story illustrating the troubles
of a brigadier. The general was dining calmly one night after having
arranged an attack. All orders had been sent out. Everything was complete
and ready. Suddenly there was a knock at the door and in walked Captain
M----, who reported his arrival with 200 reinforcements for the Cheshires,
a pleasant but irritating addition. The situation was further complicated
by the general's discovery that M---- was senior to the officer then
in command of the Cheshires. Poor M---- was not left long in command.
A fortnight later the Germans broke through and over the Cheshires,
and M---- died where a commanding officer should.

From 1910 Farm
I had one good ride to the battalions, through Festubert and along
to the Cuinchy bridge. For me it was interesting because it was one
of the few times I had ridden just behind our trenches, which at the
moment were just north of the road and were occupied by the Bedfords.

In
a day or two we returned to Festubert, and Cadell gave me a shake-down
on a mattress in his billet--gloriously comfortable. The room was
a little draughty because the fuse of a shrapnel had gone right through
the door and the fireplace opposite. Except for a peppering on the
walls and some broken glass the house was not damaged; we almost laughed
at the father and mother and daughter who, returning while we were
there, wept because their home had been touched.  The
father, by her impression, a Frenchman with a name one knew, had been a different matter, leaving
his child, she clearly recalled, a memory all fondness, as well as an assured little fortune
which was unluckily to make her more or less of a prey later on.  She had been in particular,
at school, dazzlingly, though quite booklessly, clever; as polyglot as a little Jewess (which
she wasn't, oh no!) and chattering French, English, German, Italian, anything one would, in
a way that made a clean sweep, if not of prizes and parchments, at least of every "part," whether
memorised or improvised, in the curtained costumed school repertory, and in especial of all
mysteries of race and vagueness of reference, all swagger about "home," among their variegated
mates.

It would doubtless be difficult to-day, as between French and English, to name her and place
her; she would certainly show, on knowledge, Miss Gostrey felt, as one of those convenient
types who don't keep you explaining--minds with doors as numerous as the many-tongued cluster
of confessionals at Saint Peter's.  You might confess to her with confidence in Roumelian,
and even Roumelian sins.  Therefore--! But Strether's narrator covered her implication with
a laugh; a laugh by which his betrayal of a sense of the lurid in the picture was also perhaps
sufficiently protected.  He had a moment of wondering, while his friend went on, what sins
might be especially Roumelian.  She went on at all events to the mention of her having met
the young thing--again by some Swiss lake--in her first married state, which had appeared for
the few intermediate years not at least violently disturbed.  She had been lovely at that moment,
delightful to HER, full of responsive emotion, of amused recognitions and amusing reminders,
and then once more, much later, after a long interval, equally but differently charming--touching
and rather mystifying for the five minutes of an encounter at a railway-station en province,
during which it had come out that her life was all changed.  Miss Gostrey had understood enough
to see, essentially, what had happened, and yet had beautifully dreamed that she was herself
faultless.  There were doubtless depths in her, but she was all right; Strether would see if
she wasn't.  She was another person however--that had been promptly marked--from the small
child of nature at the Geneva school, a little person quite made over (as foreign women WERE,
compared with American) by marriage.  Her situation too had evidently cleared itself up; there
would have been--all that was possible--a judicial separation.  She had settled in Paris, brought
up her daughter, steered her boat.  It was no very pleasant boat--especially there--to be in;
but Marie de Vionnet would have headed straight.  She would have friends, certainly--and very
good ones.  There she was at all events--and it was very interesting.  Her knowing Mr. Chad
didn't in the least prove she hadn't friends; what it proved was what good ones HE had. "I
saw that," said Miss Gostrey, "that night at the Francais; it came out for me in three minutes.
I saw HER--or somebody like her. And so," she immediately added, "did you."

"Oh no--not anybody like her!" Strether laughed.  "But you mean," he as promptly went on, "that
she has had such an influence on him?"

Miss Gostrey was on her feet; it was time for them to go.  "She has brought him up for her
daughter."

Their eyes, as so often, in candid conference, through their settled glasses, met over it long;
after which Strether's again took in the whole place.  They were quite alone there now.  "Mustn't
she rather--in the time then--have rushed it?"

"Ah she won't of course have lost an hour.  But that's just the good mother--the good French
one.  You must remember that of her--that as a mother she's French, and that for them there's
a special providence. It precisely however--that she mayn't have been able to begin as far
back as she'd have liked--makes her grateful for aid."

Strether took this in as they slowly moved to the house on their way out.  "She counts on me
then to put the thing through?"

"Yes--she counts on you.  Oh and first of all of course," Miss Gostrey added, "on her--well,
convincing you."

"Ah," her friend returned, "she caught Chad young!"

"Yes, but there are women who are for all your 'times of life.' They're the most wonderful sort."

She had laughed the words out, but they brought her companion, the next thing, to a stand.
"Is what you mean that she'll try to make a fool of me?"

"Well, I'm wondering what she WILL--with an opportunity--make."

"What do you call," Strether asked, "an opportunity?  My going to see her?"

"Ah you must go to see her"--Miss Gostrey was a trifle evasive. "You can't not do that.  You'd
have gone to see the other woman.  I mean if there had been one--a different sort.  It's what
you came out for."

It might be; but Strether distinguished.  "I didn't come out to see THIS sort."

She had a wonderful look at him now.  "Are you disappointed she isn't worse?"

He for a moment entertained the question, then found for it the frankest of answers.  "Yes.
If she were worse she'd be better for our purpose.  It would be simpler."

"Perhaps," she admitted. I asked whether the Armenians had killed any Government official,
or any Turks or Kurds in Diarbekir.

He replied that they had killed no one, but that a few days after the arrival of the Vali, Reshîd
Bey, and the Commandant of Gendarmerie, Rushdi Bey, prohibited arms
had been found in some Armenian houses, and also in the church. On
the discovery of these arms, the Government summoned some of the
principal Armenians and flung them into prison; the spiritual authorities
made repeated representations, asking for the release of these men,
but the Government, far from complying with the request, imprisoned
the ecclesiastics also, the number of Notables thus imprisoned amounting
to nearly seven hundred.

One day the Commandant of Gendarmerie came and informed them that an Imperial Order had been
issued for their banishment to Mosul, where they were to remain until
the end of the war.

They were rejoiced at this, procured all they required in the way of
money, clothes, and furniture, and embarked on the keleks (wooden
rafts resting on inflated skins, used by the inhabitants of that region
for travelling on the Euphrates and Tigris) to proceed to Mosul.

After a while it was understood that they had all been drowned in the
Tigris, and that none of them had reached Mosul. The authorities
continued to send off and kill the Armenians, family by family, men,
women and children, the first families sent from Diarbekir being those
of Kazaziân, Tirpanjiân, Minassiân, and Kechijiân, who were the wealthiest
families in the place.

Among the 700 individuals was a bishop named--as far as I recollect--Homandriâs; he was the Armenian Catholic
Bishop, a venerable and learned old man of about eighty; they showed no
respect to his white beard, but drowned him in the Tigris.

Megerditch, the Bishop-delegate of Diarbekir, was also among the 700 imprisoned. When he saw what was happening
to his people he could not endure the disgrace and shame of prison, so he poured petroleum over himself
and set it on fire. A Moslem, who was imprisoned for having written a letter to this bishop
three years before the events, told me that he was a man of great courage
and learning, devoted to his people, with no fear of death, but unable
to submit to oppression and humiliation.

Some of the imprisoned Kurds attacked the Armenians in the gaol itself, and killed two or three of them
out of greed for their money and clothing, but nothing was done to bring them to account. The Government
left only a very small number of Armenians in Diarbekir, these being such
as were skilled in making boots and similar articles for the army.

Nineteen
individuals had remained in the prison, where I saw and talked with them; these, according to
the pretence of the authorities, were Armenian bravoes.

The last family deported from Diarbekir was that of Dunjiân, about November, 1915. This family was protected by certain
Notables of the place, from desire for their money, or the beauty of some of their women.

DIKRÂN.--This man was a member of the central committee of the Tashnagtziân Society in Diarbekir.
An official of that place, who belonged to the Society of Union and Progress, told me that the authorities
seized Dikrân and demanded from him the names of his associates. He refused, and said that he could
not give the names until the committee had met and decided whether or not it was proper to furnish
this information to the Government. He was subjected to varieties of torture, such as putting
his feet in irons till they swelled and he could not walk, plucking
out his nails and eyelashes with a cruel instrument, etc., but he
would not say a word, nor give the name of one of his associates.

He was deported with the others and died nobly out of love for his nation, preferring death to the betrayal
of the secrets of his brave people to the Government.

AGHÔB KAITANJIÂN.--Aghôb Kaitanjiân was one of the Armenians imprisoned on the
charge of being bravoes of the Armenian Society in Diarbekir, and in whose
possession explosive material had been found.

I often talked to him, and I asked him to tell me his story. He said that one day, whilst he
was sitting in his house, a police agent knocked at the door and told him that the Chief of Police wished
to see him at his office. He went there, and some of the police asked
him about the Armenian Society and its bravoes. He replied that he knew nothing
of either societies or bravoes. He was then bastinadoed and tortured in various
ways for several days till he despaired of life, preferring death
to a continuance of degradation.

He had a knife with him, and when they aggravated the torture so
that he could endure it no longer, he asked them to let him go to
the latrine and on his return he would tell them all he knew about
the Armenian matter.

With the help of the police he went, and cut the arteries of his wrists[B]
... with the object of committing suicide. The blood gushed out freely;
he got to the door of the police-office and there fainted.

"Without what?"

"Well, without my arranging somehow or other the damnable terms of my sacrifice."

"It WILL be a sacrifice then?"

"It will be the greatest loss I ever suffered.  I owe her so much."

It was beautiful, the way Chad said these things, and his plea was now confessedly--oh quite
flagrantly and publicly--interesting.  The moment really took on for Strether an intensity.
Chad owed Madame de Vionnet so much?  What DID that do then but clear up the whole mystery?
He was indebted for alterations, and she was thereby in a position to have sent in her bill
for expenses incurred in reconstruction.  What was this at bottom but what had been to be arrived
at?  Strether sat there arriving at it while he munched toast and stirred his second cup. 
To do this with the aid of Chad's pleasant earnest face was also to do more besides.  No, never
before had he been so ready to take him as he was.  What was it that had suddenly so cleared
up?  It was just everybody's character; that is everybody's but--in a measure--his own. Strether
felt HIS character receive for the instant a smutch from all the wrong things he had suspected
or believed. Dey wuz a little gal too; Ben didn' pay much 'tention ter de gal, but he wuz monst'us fond
er Dasdy an' de boy. He wuz sorry ter leab 'em, an' he didn' tell
'em nuffin' 'bout it fer fear dey'd make a fuss. But on Friday night
Ben tuk all de bread an' meat dey wuz in de cabin an' made fer de
woods.

"W'en Sad'day come an' Ben didn' 'pear, an' nobody didn' know nuffin'
'bout 'im, Mars Marrabo 'lowed of co'se dat Ben had runned erway.

He got up a pahty an' tuk de dawgs out an' follered de scen' down ter de crick an' los' it. Fer Ben
had tuk a go'd-full er tar 'long wid' 'im, an' w'en he got ter de crick
he had 'n'inted his feet wid tar, an' dat th'owed de houns' off'n de
scent.

Dey sarched de woods an' follered de roads an' kep' watchin' fer a week,
but dey couldn' fin' no sign er Ben. An' den Mars Marrabo got mo' stric',
an' wuked his niggers hahder'n eber, ez ef he wanted ter try ter
make up fer his loss.

"W'en Ben stahted out he wanted ter go ter de No'th. He didn' know how
fur it wuz, bet he 'lowed he retch dar in fo' er five days. He knowed de No'th
Stah, an' de fus night he kep' gwine right straight to'ds it. But
de nex' night it was rainin,' an' fer two er th'ee nights it stayed
cloudy, an' Ben couldn' see de No'th Stah. Howsomeber, he knowed he
had got stahted right' an' he kep' gwine right straight on de same
way fer a week er mo' 'spectin' ter git ter de No'th eve'y day, w'en
one mawin' early, atter he had b'en walkin' all night, he come right
smack out on de crick jes whar he had stahted f'om.

"Co'se Ben wuz monst'us disapp'inted. He had been wond'rin' w'y he hadn'
got ter de No'th befo,' an' behol,' heah he wuz back on de ole plantation.
He couldn' un'erstan' it at fus,' but he wuz so hongry he didn' hab time
ter study 'bout nuffin' fer a little w'ile but jes' ter git sump'n'
ter eat; fer he had done eat up de bread an' meat he tuk away wid
'im, an' had been libbin' on roas'n-ears an' sweet'n taters he'd slip
out'n de woods an' fin' in co'n fiel's 'an 'tater-patches.

He look 'cross de crick, an' seed dis yer clay-bank, an' he waded ober
an' got all he could eat, an' den tuk a lump wid 'im, an' hid in de woods ag'in
'til he could study de matter ober some.

"Fus' he 'lowed dat he better gib hiss'ef up an' take his lammin.' But jes'
den he 'membered de way Mars Marrabo looked at 'im an' w'at he said
'bout Sad'day night; an' den he 'lowed dat ef Mars Marrabo ketch
'im now, he'd wear 'im ter a frazzle an' chaw up de frazzle, so de
wouldn' be nuffin' lef' un 'im at all, an' dat Mars Marrabo would
make a' example an' a warnin' of 'im fer all de niggers in de naberhood.

Fac' is Mars Marrabo prob'ly wouldn' a' done much ter 'im fer it 'ud
be monst'us po' 'couragement fer runaway niggers ter come back, ef
dey gwineter git killed w'en dey come.

An' so Ben waited 'til night, an' den he went back an' got some mo'
clay an' eat it an' hid hisse'f in de woods ag'in.

"Well, hit wuz quare 'bout Ben, but he stayed roun' heah fer a mont,'
hidin' in de woods in de daytime, an' slippin' out nights an' gittin'
clay ter eat an' water f'om de crick yanker ter drink. De water in dat
crick wuz cl'ar in dem days, stidder bein' yallar lak it is now."

We
had observed that the water, like that of most streams that take their
rise in swamps, had an amber tint to which the sand and clay background
of the bed of the stream imparted an even yellower hue.

"What did he do then, Julius?" asked my wife, who liked to hear the end
of a story.

"Well, Miss, he made up his min' den dat he wuz gwineter staht fer de No'th ag'in.
But wiles he b'en layin' roun' in de woods he had 'mence ter feel monst'us
lonesome, an' it 'peared ter him dat he jes' couldn' go widout seein' Dasdy
an' little Pete.

Fus' he 'lowed he'd go up ter de cabin, but he thought 'bout de dogs
'roun' de yahd, an' dat de yuther dahkies mought see 'im, and so he
'cided he'd better watch fer 'em 'til dey come long de road--it wuz
dis yer same road--w'en he could come out'n de woods an' talk ter 'em.

An' he eben 'lowed he mought 'suade 'em ter run erway wid 'im an' dey could all get
ter de No'th, fer de nights wuz cl'ar now, an' he couldn' lose de
No'th Stah.

"So he waited two er th'ee days, an' sho' nuff long come
Dasdy one mornin,' comin' over to Mars Dugal's fer ter fetch some
things fer her missis.  She occupied, his hostess, in the Rue de Bellechasse, the first floor of an old
house to which our visitors had had access from an old clean court.  The court was large and
open, full of revelations, for our friend, of the habit of privacy, the peace of intervals,
the dignity of distances and approaches; the house, to his restless sense, was in the high
homely style of an elder day, and the ancient Paris that he was always looking for--sometimes
intensely felt, sometimes more acutely missed--was in the immemorial polish of the wide waxed
staircase and in the fine boiseries, the medallions, mouldings, mirrors, great clear spaces,
of the greyish-white salon into which he had been shown.  He seemed at the very outset to see
her in the midst of possessions not vulgarly numerous, but hereditary cherished charming. 
While his eyes turned after a little from those of his hostess and Chad freely talked--not
in the least about HIM, but about other people, people he didn't know, and quite as if he did
know them--he found himself making out, as a background of the occupant, some glory, some prosperity
of the First Empire, some Napoleonic glamour, some dim lustre of the great legend; elements
clinging still to all the consular chairs and mythological brasses and sphinxes' heads and
faded surfaces of satin striped with alternate silk.

The place itself went further back--that he guessed, and how old Paris continued in a manner
to echo there; but the post-revolutionary period, the world he vaguely thought of as the world
of Chateaubriand, of Madame de Stael, even of the young Lamartine, had left its stamp of harps
and urns and torches, a stamp impressed on sundry small objects, ornaments and relics.  He
had never before, to his knowledge, had present to him relics, of any special dignity, of a
private order--little old miniatures, medallions, pictures, books; books in leather bindings,
pinkish and greenish, with gilt garlands on the back, ranged, together with other promiscuous
properties, under the glass of brass-mounted cabinets.  His attention took them all tenderly
into account. They were among the matters that marked Madame de Vionnet's apartment as something
quite different from Miss Gostrey's little museum of bargains and from Chad's lovely home;
he recognised it as founded much more on old accumulations that had possibly from time to time
shrunken than on any contemporary method of acquisition or form of curiosity.  Chad and Miss
Gostrey had rummaged and purchased and picked up and exchanged, sifting, selecting, comparing;
whereas the mistress of the scene before him, beautifully passive under the spell of transmission--transmission
from her father's line, he quite made up his mind--had only received, accepted and been quiet.
When she hadn't been quiet she had been moved at the most to some occult charity for some fallen
fortune.  There had been objects she or her predecessors might even conceivably have parted
with under need, but Strether couldn't suspect them of having sold old pieces to get "better"
ones.  They would have felt no difference as to better or worse.  He could but imagine their
having felt--perhaps in emigration, in proscription, for his sketch was slight and confused--the
pressure of want or the obligation of sacrifice.

The pressure of want--whatever might be the case with the other force--was, however, presumably
not active now, for the tokens of a chastened ease still abounded after all, many marks of
a taste whose discriminations might perhaps have been called eccentric.  He guessed at intense
little preferences and sharp little exclusions, a deep suspicion of the vulgar and a personal
view of the right. The general result of this was something for which he had no name on the
spot quite ready, but something he would have come nearest to naming in speaking of it as the
air of supreme respectability, the consciousness, small, still, reserved, but none the less
distinct and diffused, of private honour. Select round tomatoes of equal size; peel and scoop out the seeds
from the stem end. Place the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill with
celery that has been chopped fine and mixed with mayonnaise. Arrange the filled tomatoes
on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or plate. Garnish the dish further by placing the ends of celery and
sprigs of parsley on top of each tomato. Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers.
Be generous with the filling. Use plenty of the mayonnaise and celery
and fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs
(well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant) one
teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted).

Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly.

Set in kettle of boiling water and stir till it thickens, (about four minutes),
when ready to use it add two tablespoons cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes,
one small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one
tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt.

Shred all the salad finely. Mix well with the dressing and put a little
on half the bread and butter. Cover with the other half, press together and
trim neatly.

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard,
one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper.

One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one
tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar
and cayenne, and four eggs.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers.

Garnish dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on the
eggs well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly,
and stir all the time.

Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when cold
add the mustard.--Prepared mustard is made as follows: two tablespoons
mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt, enough boiling water
to mix.

Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also good for chicken. Put the eggs in boiling
water.

PRESERVING EGGS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

(Which keeps them from June to June.)

Half a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of water added by degrees,
two and one half gallons the first day, the rest next, then add one
half gallon coarse salt, stir two or three times a day for three
days, after this drop in four eggs gently.

To test the strength of the lime-water drop in an egg that you know to be fresh,
and if it floats the lime is too strong, add another gallon or more
of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.

CURÉE EGGS.

MISS MITCHELL.

Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn butter not too thick, flavor with
curée powder. Place your eggs on a side dish, pour your curée round
and finish with parsley: makes a pretty lunch dish.

POACHED EGGS.

Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste.

After poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely
chopped parsley over them.

Garnish the dish with parsley.

ANCHOVY EGGS.

MADAME J. T.

Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes.

Let boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks and leave the whites in
cold water not to discolor. Pound three anchovies in a mortar with
one tablespoon butter, small pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne, one half
teaspoon lemon juice and the yolks of the eggs. When pounded smooth put back
into the eggs.

Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies.

STUFFED EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons
minced ham.

Boil
the eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells, cut lengthwise, take
out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter melted, the minced
ham and the parsley.

Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs. Put the two halves together.
Serve on shallow dish with the following white sauce: one tablespoon
each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon pepper.

Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper and salt.

BAKED
OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk, and a tablespoonful
melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls flour in a little cold milk
add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and pepper to taste.

Bake twenty minutes.

CHEESE OMELET.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three
tablespoons of fresh cream.

OMELET.

MISS M'GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper
and salt.

Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt,
and chopped parsley and the flour dissolved in a little milk, then add
the whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for
three minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch
of salt: beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add
to the above, turn into a frying pan, until the mixture sets and then
put in the oven until a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES.

CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful of flour,
one half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper and butter
the size of an egg.

Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin.

Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven.

CHEESE SCALLOP.

MISS FRASER.

Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat the
yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoon of butter, and half a pound
of grated cheese.

Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate brown.

Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top and
return to the oven for a few minutes.

THE CHAFING DISH.

A Relish and a Savory.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS GRACE M'MILLAN.

Allow for each person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, one half teaspoonful of butter, one
saltspoon of salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cook like custard until
smooth. Spread on toast and serve at once.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best American cheese, (Canadian will do), the milder
the better, as melting brings out strength.

To make five rarebits take one pound cheese grate and put in the
saucepan; add ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently,
say about a wine glassful to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted. Have ready a slice
of toast for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice on each plate,
and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it.

Serve at once.

GOLDEN BUCK

A "Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put carefully
on top of rarebit.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard boiled),
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons of butter,
salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks
of the eggs with a silver spoon and gradually add half the cream.

Place the butter in a granite ware saucepan, add the flour, let it cook
slowly for one minute and then pour in the balance of the cream and
stir until the liquid thickens.

Add the first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of the
eggs sliced, season with cayenne pepper, and salt, add the wine and serve at
once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth,
add one cup of cream, let it heat through, then add one can of lobster.
Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine, if
desired; serve at once on squares of toast.

Canned chicken or salmon
can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of horse
radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top.

Serve in small tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around them and
with oyster biscuits.

CRUSTINE.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil
the liver of two chickens, (or turkey will do), pound them to a paste
with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy
and a little cayenne.

Serve on hot toast.

Small anchovies whole, laid on top are an improvement.

PIES.

"Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."--LONGFELLOW.

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good rim on
the side and put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill up
with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of sugar
beaten together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little
salt and add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice of
two lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on the stove to boil
and add at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir smooth, then add two
tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water, and one
tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two-thirds of a cup of
water for ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one cup
sugar, the juice of a lemon and butter half the size of an egg, let
boil a few minutes.

Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch and yolk of one egg in half cup milk
stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick. Beat whites of two eggs into
stiff froth for frosting.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. STRANG.

Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight
tablespoonfuls white sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate the
rind of one, stir together the yolks of three eggs and white of
one with the sugar, butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup of sweet
cream or milk, beat all for a minute or two; have ready a plate lined
with paste, into which pour the mixture which will be sufficient
for two pies of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done. Meanwhile beat the remaining whites to a stiff
froth and stir in four spoonfuls of white sugar. Take the pies from the oven
and spread over equal parts upon each and return them quickly to the oven
and bake a delicate brown.

Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly and
cause the pie to fall when taken out.

PASTRY.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking
powder, one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

MOCK
CHERRY PIE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one half cup
of cold water, one teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful corn-starch,
two-thirds cup sugar, a little salt. This makes one pie.

MINCE MEAT.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one
pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants, two nutmegs, a large
teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt, one half pound of candied
peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of
pie plant, bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon
sugar over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE.

One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons
vinegar, one tablespoon cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one
cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.

SOUR CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar,
scant tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar,
and flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two
crusts.

PUMPKIN PIE.

MISS BEEMER.

PASTE.

PUDDINGS.

"The proof of the pudding lies in the eating."

ALMOND
PUDDING

MRS. STOCKING.

One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons
of maple sugar, one heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor with
almond; cook milk, sugar, and cornstarch in double boiler, adding
yolks of eggs when boiling; pour into pudding dish, cover with whites
of the eggs, and brown in oven, to be served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS.
ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place
the following batter on top: one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar
and butter, two tablespoonfuls each of milk and flour, one teaspoon
of baking powder, bake forty five minutes in a slow oven, serve with
cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of
cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of white sugar and one third
of a cup of butter. Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water
to make a thick custard; stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs,
bring to a boil. Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the custard over
them. Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three
eggs well beaten with sugar. To be eaten cold.

BREAD PUDDING.

MRS.
ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer
of bread, one layer of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of
butter. Continue until bowl is full, put a plate on top and steam
for at least two hours, more will do no harm. Turn out a few minutes
before wanted to let the juice penetrate the bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE
PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar
and a tablespoon of butter, add two eggs, and after beating the mixture
until light, add a cupful of milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted
flour and three teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve
into the mixture already made, beat quickly and pour the batter into
one large pudding dish or two small ones. Sprinkle with sugar, bake
in a moderate oven for forty minutes or thirty if there be two. Serve
hot with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.--Beat two eggs
very light, and add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter,
one small tablespoon of cornstarch, beat all together, then add one
cup of boiling water, cook five minutes, boiling all the while. Cook
a little longer if set in a basin of hot water, take from the fire,
and add juice of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

One quart of milk scalded,
two eggs well beaten, add gradually one cup sugar. With the eggs and
sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping tablespoons
grated chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir into the milk until
a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE
PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread
crumbs, one tea cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of
chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Let the milk come
to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when almost cool, beat the yolks
of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the bread and milk. Bake
one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the whites of three eggs
and put meringues.

CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee
cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over a slow fire and
burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of milk in a saucepan
and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil, but do not stir
it in case the milk should crack. Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch
with a little cold milk, and when the milk and sugar boil stir the
starch in. Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream.

CARAMEL
PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

One pint of milk, one pound of brown
sugar, one coffee cup of chopped walnuts, two heaping tablespoons
of cornstarch, pinch of salt. Put the milk in a double boiler, when
boiling put in cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk; let it
cook a few minutes, put in the sugar which has been previously burnt
a little, then add the nuts, stir a few minutes, flavor with vanilla,
put into a mould, and eat with whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS
LAMPSON.

Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk,
one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of two eggs and whites of four,
one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little
nutmeg. Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs. When nearly
cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut. Bake
three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold, with
white sugar sifted over it.

DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE.

MRS.
STOCKING.

FRIED CREAM.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Everyone should
try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream could
be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish for
a dinner course or for lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it
can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs. The moment the egg touches
the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding which softens to a
creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients, one pint of milk, five
ounces of sugar (little more than half a cupful,) butter the size
of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn
starch, and one tablespoonful of flour, (a generous half cupful altogether),
stick of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla.
Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil,
stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the
fire for fully two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take
it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return
it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove
the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered
platter until one third of an inch high. When cold and stiff cut the
pudding into parallelograms, about three inches long and two inches
wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker crumbs then in
eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened) then again in cracker-crumbs.
Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire basket should be used if convenient)
and when of fine color, take them out and place them in the oven for
four or five minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pulverized
sugar and serve immediately.

FEATHER PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One
tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one
cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour,
one and one half teaspoons flavoring. Steam one hour. Eat with sauce.

FIG
PUDDING.

MRS. THOM.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine,
two cups bread-crumbs, one cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one
egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three
hours.

GELATINE PUDDING (Pink.)

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce
pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove where it
will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four eggs, beaten with
four tablespoons sugar, stir well, let it just come to the boil, then
add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar and a dessert
spoon vanilla. Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and
garnish with whipped cream. This is a very pretty dish.

GRAHAM PUDDING.


"Oh but I'm not a little foreign girl; I'm just as English as I can be," Jeanne de Vionnet
had said to him as soon as, in the petit salon, he sank, shyly enough on his own side, into
the place near her vacated by Madame Gloriani at his approach.  Madame Gloriani, who was in
black velvet, with white lace and powdered hair, and whose somewhat massive majesty melted,
at any contact, into the graciousness of some incomprehensible tongue, moved away to make room
for the vague gentleman, after benevolent greetings to him which embodied, as he believed,
in baffling accents, some recognition of his face from a couple of Sundays before.  Then he
had remarked--making the most of the advantage of his years--that it frightened him quite enough
to find himself dedicated to the entertainment of a little foreign girl.  There were girls
he wasn't afraid of--he was quite bold with little Americans.  Thus it was that she had defended
herself to the end--"Oh but I'm almost American too.  That's what mamma has wanted me to be--I
mean LIKE that; for she has wanted me to have lots of freedom.  She has known such good results
from it."

She was fairly beautiful to him--a faint pastel in an oval frame: he thought of her already
as of some lurking image in a long gallery, the portrait of a small old-time princess of whom
nothing was known but that she had died young.  Little Jeanne wasn't, doubtless, to die young,
but one couldn't, all the same, bear on her lightly enough.  It was bearing hard, it was bearing
as HE, in any case, wouldn't bear, to concern himself, in relation to her, with the question
of a young man. Odious really the question of a young man; one didn't treat such a person as
a maid-servant suspected of a "follower."  And then young men, young men--well, the thing was
their business simply, or was at all events hers.  She was fluttered, fairly fevered--to the
point of a little glitter that came and went in her eyes and a pair of pink spots that stayed
in her cheeks--with the great adventure of dining out and with the greater one still, possibly,
of finding a gentleman whom she must think of as very, very old, a gentleman with eye-glasses,
wrinkles, a long grizzled moustache.  She spoke the prettiest English, our friend thought,
that he had ever heard spoken, just as he had believed her a few minutes before to be speaking
the prettiest French. He wondered almost wistfully if such a sweep of the lyre didn't react
on the spirit itself; and his fancy had in fact, before he knew it, begun so to stray and embroider
that he finally found himself, absent and extravagant, sitting with the child in a friendly
silence.  Only by this time he felt her flutter to have fortunately dropped and that she was
more at her ease.  She trusted him, liked him, and it was to come back to him afterwards that
she had told him things.  She had dipped into the waiting medium at last and found neither
surge nor chill--nothing but the small splash she could herself make in the pleasant warmth,
nothing but the safety of dipping and dipping again. At the end of the ten minutes he was to
spend with her his impression--with all it had thrown off and all it had taken in--was complete.
She had been free, as she knew freedom, partly to show him that, unlike other little persons
she knew, she had imbibed that ideal. She was delightfully quaint about herself, but the vision
of what she had imbibed was what most held him.  It really consisted, he was soon enough to
feel, in just one great little matter, the fact that, whatever her nature, she was thoroughly--he
had to cast about for the word, but it came--bred. He couldn't of course on so short an acquaintance
speak for her nature, but the idea of breeding was what she had meanwhile dropped into his
mind.  He had never yet known it so sharply presented.  Her mother gave it, no doubt; but her
mother, to make that less sensible, gave so much else besides, and on neither of the two previous
occasions, extraordinary woman, Strether felt, anything like what she was giving tonight. 
Little Jeanne was a case, an exquisite case of education; whereas the Countess, whom it so
amused him to think of by that denomination, was a case, also exquisite, of--well, he didn't
know what. 

OUR COMMON HUMANITY.

Here is a letter found on one of the German dead, a man with “a good
face, strong and kindly,” so wrote the Daily Mail correspondent. “My
dearest Heart,” runs the letter, “when the little ones have said
their prayers and prayed for their dear father, and have gone to bed,
I sit and think of thee, my love.

I think of all the old days when we were betrothed, and I think of all our happy married life. Oh!
Ludwig, beloved of my soul, why should people fight each other? I
cannot think that God would wish it....”

Here in this leafy place Quiet he lies; Cold, with his sightless face
Turned to the skies; ’Tis but another dead: All you can say is said.

Carry the body hence; Kings must have slaves; Kings rise to eminence Over men’s graves; So this man’s eyes
are dim.

Cast the earth over him.

What was that white you touched, There by his side? Paper his hand had
clutched Tight ere he died? Message or wish, maybe? Smooth out its
folds and see.

* * *

Ah!

That beside the dead Slumbered the pain! Ah! That the hearts that bled Slept
with the slain! That the grief died. But no! Death will not have
it so.

These words of Austin Dobson were written of a French sergeant in an
earlier war, yet they serve equally well for the German soldier in
this. Strange that we leave it to the dead to prove their brotherhood
and ours.

Philip Gibbs tells us how in a German dug-out he picked up some letters.

“They were all written to ‘dear brother Wilhelm,’ from sisters and
brothers, sending him their loving greetings, praying that his health
might be good, promising to send him gifts of food and yearning for
his home-coming.” They were anxious, for here had been no news for
some time.

“Every time the postman comes we hope for a little note from you.”
Can any generous heart think of that anxious waiting unmoved?

Shall we children of one Life wait till we have wholly darkened each
other’s homes, and then call our handiwork peace?

But by that time, by the judgment of God, our eyes will be opened.

We
who are bound by the same grief for ever, When all our sons are dead may
talk together, Each asking pardon of the other one, For her dead
son.[52]

It is we at home who seem to yield only to this dread proof.

With the fighters it is often different, as we have seen, and though
the stories savour of repetition, the repetition is surely worth while.
I have aimed here at no literary production, but simply at a collection
of facts that may reach the heart. “We sing,” said a soldier from Baden, “to
the accompaniment of the piano—especially during the interval for dinner.
We have indeed entered into a tacit agreement with the French to
stop all fire between 12 and 1 o’clock, so that they and we might
not be disturbed when we feed.” (Zeitung am Mittag, as quoted in the
Daily Chronicle, November 10, 1914.) “One of our teachers, a lieutenant
in the R.F.A., who has been out most of the time, had a few days’
leave some weeks ago.

He said to the school, assembled to do him honour, ‘Boys, do not believe
the stories you read about the Germans in the newspapers.

Whatever they may have done at the beginning of the war, the German
is a brave and noble soldier, and after the war we must be friends.’”
(From a private letter.) A soldier writes that a diary he kept was
blown to bits by a shell.

He gave what remained of it to a wounded German who pleaded for it. He had met
many German Socialists in the fighting. “It is a blessing to meet
such men and amid all the slaughter brought about by our present
system, it seems heaven upon earth.” (Labour Leader, June 24, 1915.)

ARE
WE ALWAYS CHIVALROUS?

It will only be making the amende honorable if we do our best now to
spread reports of good deeds of the enemy, for in the early stages of
the war we deliberately deleted them from messages, and we have certainly
done a great deal to conceal them ever since.

Writing to the Times in October, 1914, Mr. Herbert Corey, the American
correspondent, said: “The Times leader quotes the Post as charging
that I ‘flatly made the charge that dispatches had been altered for
the purpose of hiding the truth and blackening the German character.’
I do not recollect this phrase.

I did charge that dispatches of German atrocities were permitted to go through unaltered, and that
sentences in other dispatches in which credit was given the Germans
for courtesy and kindness were deleted.

I abide by
that statement.”

There have been many angry references to unfair German attempts to influence
neutral opinion. A letter such as Mr. Corey’s makes me able to understand
why some neutrals have accused England of the very same unfairness. There is other
testimony to the same effect. Mr. Edward Price Bell, London Correspondent
of the Chicago Daily News, has, in a pamphlet published by Fisher Unwin,
indicted the British censorship in the following terms:

I call the
censorship chaotic because of the chaos in its administration.

I call it political because it has changed or suppressed political cables.
I call it discriminatory because there are flagrant instances of
its not holding the scales evenly between correspondents and newspapers.
I call it unchivalrous because it has been known to elide eulogies of enemy
decency and enemy valour. I call it destructive because its function
is to destroy; it has no constructive function whatever.

I call it in effect anti-British and pro-German because its tendency—one means, of course, its
unconscious tendency—often is to elevate the German name for veracity and for courage above the
British. I call it ludicrous, because it has censored such matter
as Kipling’s “Recessional” and Browning’s poetry. I call it incompetent because
one can perceive no sort of collective efficiency in its work. And
because of the sum of these things I give it the final descriptive—“incredible.”—Daily
News, January 7, 1916.

There is no doubt that people often fear to tell of German good
deeds. An acquaintance of mine told me that his boy got decorated
for bringing in a badly wounded comrade from near the German trenches.

A little shamefacedly my informant went on: “I don’t mind telling you,
but I shouldn’t like it to be known generally here, that I know the Germans
act well sometimes.

My boy wrote he would have had no chance, but he heard the Germans give the
order to cease fire.” My informant evidently feared the neighbours
would call him pro-German if he told this to them, but he thought he
might venture to tell a pacifist.[53]

One notices this fear sometimes
in rather amusing ways.

In a railway compartment with me were a loud-mouthed patriotic woman “war-worker”
and a mere soldier back from the front. I’m afraid I got a little at
loggerheads with the war-worker, who adopted in argument a kind of
furious grin which revealed a formidable row of teeth that in my mind-picture
of her have become symbolically almost gigantic. I turned for relief
to the mere soldier, and while the train was moving we had a pleasant
dip into soldier philosophy.

“I’ve come to the conclusion that there’s good and bad everywhere,”
he said. “I’ve known bad Germans, and I’ve known Germans to look after our
wounded as well as a British Tommy could look after his chum.” There
was more to this effect, but whenever the train stopped and our voices
became audible to others, we were silent. The fear of that row of teeth
was, I think in both our hearts, and I could see the mere soldier looking
timid before them.

Fair play to the enemy’s character is a concession not quite so easy
to the average Englishman as he supposes.

“The Anglo-Saxon race has never been remarkable for magnanimity towards a fallen
foe.” Just now, when we are inclined to be almost afraid of the excess
of chivalry which possesses us, there may be useful corrective in these
words of Lieutenant-General Sir William Butler, K.C.B. There has been
much searching of old history books of late to find out what was said in the days
of Tacitus against the Germans.[54] (What Tacitus said in their favour
is not considered.) Perhaps on the other side there are investigators
searching their history books for ancient opinions of the English.

“Strike well these English,” said Duke William to his Normans, “show
no weakness towards these English, for they will have no pity for
you. Neither the coward for running well, nor the bold man for fighting
well will be better liked by the English, nor will any be more spared
on either account.” Butler approved this verdict.

We shall not readily agree with him. Yet he did not speak without
cause: he had known an English general kick the dead body of an African
King, who “was a soldier every inch of him,” and he had known the
colonists spit upon an African chief brought bound and helpless through
Natal.

(“Far Out,” p. 131.) I believe myself there is a great and ready generosity in the hearts of the English
people, but he must surely be a man invariably on the “correct” side
who has not more than once come across the official Englishman who
could be a bully to those in his power.

SOME BRITISH OPINIONS.

“I am disgusted by the accounts I see in the papers of the inferiority
of Germans as soldiers.

Don’t believe one word of it. They are quite splendid in every way. Their courage, efficiency, organisation,
equipment and leading are all of the very best, and never surpassed by any troops ever raised. They
come on in masses against our trenches and machine guns, and come time
after time, and they are never quiescent, but always on the offensive.

I am full of admiration for them, and so are all who know anything about them. It is a pity that such
fine soldiers should have behaved so badly in Belgium and here; they
have behaved badly, there is no doubt about it, but nothing like
what is said of them—any way in parts I have been through.” These
words from a General Officer commanding a brigade occur in a letter
published in the Times of November 19, 1914.

Yet these “quite splendid” fighters are the men of whom a learned professor
appointed by the Government has written that they are “rotten to the core.”
There is some discrepancy here. “They are great workers, these Germans,”
wrote Philip Gibbs (Daily Chronicle, July 5, 1916), “and wonderful
soldiers.”

“An officer of the Sydney gave a quite enthusiastic account of the officers
of the Emden. ‘Vitthoef, the torpedo lieutenant, was a thoroughly nice
fellow. Lieutenant Schal was also a good fellow and half English.
It quite shook them when they found that the captain had asked that there
be no cheering on entering Colombo, but we certainly did not want cheering
with rows of badly wounded men (almost all German) laid out in cots
on the quarter deck.

Captain von Müller is a very fine fellow.... The day he was leaving the ship at Colombo, he came
up to me on the quarter-deck and thanked me in connection with the
rescue of the wounded, shook hands and saluted, which was very nice
and polite of him.... Prince Hohenzollern was a decent enough fellow.

In fact, we seemed to agree that it was our job to knock one another
out, but there was no malice in it.’ This is the ideal fighting, ‘with
no malice in it.’ It has been achieved by many English and Germans, and that
gives hope for the future. Let us make the most, not the least, of
what points towards a better understanding.... At the beginning of
November ‘Eye-Witness’ records how English prisoners had been sheltered
by the Germans in cellars to protect them from the bombardment of
their own side.

An Anglo-Indian tells of a wounded havildar who was noticed by a German officer.
‘The German officer spoke to him in Hindustani, asking him the number of his regiment,
and where he came from. He bound up his wounds, gave him a drink,
and brought him a bundle of straw to support his head. This will be remembered
to the credit side of our German account.’

“A wounded officer addressed some students at one of our universities.
He protested humorously that he was not a ‘pro-German,’ and then
spoke up for a fair view of the enemy.

When he was being carried into hospital, he noticed an anti-aircraft gun
just outside the hospital. This struck him as, to say the least, unwise. He expected
the hospital to be shelled, and this occurred. He did not blame
the Germans. On another occasion a farm near the firing line was used
for first aid.

It was not obviously a hospital
and was fired on. The Commanding Officer sent a note to Von Kluck
to explain matters, and the farm was never after exposed to fire.[55]
He had seen a church damaged by German shell fire, but this was one
which he had himself seen used by the French for observation purposes.[56]
The same officer uttered a warning against believing all that was
in the ‘Tommies’ letters.

At one time when he was censoring letters, one passed through his hands
from a Tommy only just arrived in France, and never in the firing
line.

He described an immense battle in which the English did wonders and he himself
had marvellous duties to perform. As far as the military situation was concerned
the letter was quite harmless, so it was allowed to go through. It
was something like the intelligence to the publication of which the
Press Bureau ‘does not object.’”[57][58]

In her book, “My War Experiences
on Two Continents,” Miss Macnaughten writes of the Germans: “Individually,
I always like them, and it is useless to say I don’t. They are all
polite and grateful, and I thought to-day, when the prisoners were
surrounded by a gaping crowd, that they bore themselves very well.”
(p. 127).

Again, “I found one young German with both hands smashed. He was not ill enough to have a bed, of course, but
sat with his head fallen forward trying to sleep on a chair. I fed him with porridge and milk
out of a little bowl, and when he had finished half of it he said,
‘I won’t have any more. I am afraid there will be none for the others.’”
(p. 37.) Unfortunately, Miss Macnaughten too readily accepted war stories.
She writes of “country houses” where he heard German prisoners here
lived in luxury, “and they say girls are allowed to come and play
lawn tennis with them.” The humour of this will be apparent to any
who have visited internment camps.

Lawn tennis was, however, possible at some camps, both here and in Germany—there
were seven courts at Ruhleben.

Some of the atrocity stories many of us will recognise as not so reliable
as Miss Macnaughten supposed.

It is her personal experiences which are important, and, like the Scotchman[59]
(whom she quotes) she has, not hatred, but respect, for the Germans whom
she herself meets.

THE EASE OF ACCUSATION.

Again and again, everywhere, we find readiness to accept stories against
the enemy on very slender evidence. At the time of the loss of our
three cruisers I saw in one of the better newspapers a large heading,
“German Treachery.

Fighting under the Dutch Flag.” I looked down the columns for evidence. No mention
of such a circumstance in the official report, none in the letter from the
chief correspondent; but at last I found that some one at Harwich had
“heard of” such an incident. We must remember that only cool and clear
intellects are likely at such a time to give an accurate account
of facts.

Between others mutual recrimination may readily arise. An officer on
H.M.A.S. Sydney wrote after the attack on the Emden: “It was very interesting
talking to some of the German officers afterwards. On the first day they were
on board one said to me, ‘You fire on the white flag.’ I at once took
the matter up, and the torpedo-lieutenant and an engineer (of the Emden) both
said emphatically, ‘No, that is not so; you did not fire on the
white flag.’ But we did not leave it at that. One of us went to the captain, and
he got from Captain von Müller an assurance that we had done nothing
of the kind, and that he intended to assemble his officers and tell
them so.” Note how readily on the other side, amongst those less responsible
or less cool-headed, a tale may grow up against us.

Let us observe in considering tales against them the same caution
that we should wish them to exercise in considering tales against
us.[60]

TROOPS IN OCCUPATION.

Witnesses from Brussels and from Ghent have spoken well of the personal behaviour
of both soldiers and officers. A neutral correspondent writes in the Times
of January 28, 1915:

“On the whole it cannot be said that the behaviour of the German officers and soldiers
towards the population of Ghent is bad. When the German troops entered
the city, strict injunctions were given them to refrain from pillaging,
and to pay for everything they bought in the shops, very much to the disgust
of many....”

Mr. Gabriel Mourey has written an account of his custody of the Palais
de Compiègne during the invasion. The Times review of this book is so
interesting that I propose to give some extracts from it:

First the palace served as the general headquarters of the British
Army during the last stage of the strategic retreat to the Marne;
and in the closing days of August, M. Mourey looked out of his window
to see Generals French and Joffre walking up and down the terrace
in consultation, while in the park English soldiers were shaving themselves
calmly before little pieces of broken mirror.

In a night they had left Compiègne, blowing up the Louis XV. bridge (“utterly improved,” and therefore
no great loss). On the next day came the Uhlans, by no means so terrible as they had been painted.... Von Kluck
was to make his headquarters there for a day, and the first announcement
of the doubtful honour was brought by an engineer lieutenant, who
came to make a wireless installation on the palace roof.

He
was very quick, but he found time to inform the conservator that his name was
Maurin, that it was a French name.

He repeated it many times, “C’est un nom français,” and he was plainly proud
of it. Then came Von Kluck himself, asking in polite and excellent French
that he might be shown over the palace. Of him M. Mourey draws a by
no means unattractive picture, urbane yet reserved, with real admiration
for the treasures of the Palace, discreetly murmuring “Je sais” at the close
of every explanation, not offensively, but as though some long forgotten
memory had returned to him, making his frequent “Kolossal” sound in
his conductor’s ears as gently as the continual “Very nice” of the
British Officer, and, his visit over, promising that respect should
be paid to the monument of Imperial France.

But Von Kluck could not stay. He was followed by Von Marwitz, no less polite,
no less sympathetic to M. Mourey’s natural fears, and generous enough
to write and sign a proclamation forbidding his troops to lay their
hand upon the palace. He, too, went his way. Von Kluck’s Quartermaster-General
seized the opportunity of making a private levy of 5,000f. upon the
town before he sped like Gehazi after his master’s chariot.

Then ensued the brief reign of lesser men, stupid, brutal, blustering, bullying, insulting, because they feared
a civilisation which they could not understand.

I think we know such men, and many privates know such men, elsewhere
than in the German army. Germany may have cultivated them in greater
numbers—that is highly probable—but they are rife everywhere, and
under favourable circumstances they thrive exceedingly.

Their insolent arrogance culminated in a certain aide-de-camp, who
arrived post-haste to say that the Palace must be instantly made
ready to receive an Excellence par excellence.

A man of imagination this aide-de-camp, for when at his command M. Mourey showed
him over the palace and pointed out the gaps in the collections made by the
soldiers’ pilfery, he said with an all-explanatory air, “But why didn’t
you get souvenirs ready for the officers?” The Excellence whom this right Brandenburger
heralded was no less than the Kaiser himself, and M. Mourey is convinced
that it is to the Imperial intention that the safety of Compiègne
is owing.

It may be: but we prefer to think that honourable foes such as Von
Kluck and Von Marwitz had their share in the unusual consummation.[61]

“The
Irish Nuns at Ypres” gives an account of their experiences by a member
of the Community.

 I mean," he explained,
"about what you spoke to me of--the way she feels."

His companion wondered.  "Because one really won't?"

"Well, because I ask you, as a favour to myself, not to.  She's the most charming creature
I've ever seen.  Therefore don't touch her. Don't know--don't want to know.  And moreover--yes--you
won't."

It was an appeal, of a sudden, and she took it in.  "As a favour to you?"

"Well--since you ask me."

"Anything, everything you ask," she smiled.  "I shan't know then--never. Thank you," she added
with peculiar gentleness as she turned away.

The sound of it lingered with him, making him fairly feel as if he had been tripped up and
had a fall.  In the very act of arranging with her for his independence he had, under pressure
from a particular perception, inconsistently, quite stupidly, committed himself, and, with
her subtlety sensitive on the spot to an advantage, she had driven in by a single word a little
golden nail, the sharp intention of which he signally felt.  He hadn't detached, he had more
closely connected himself, and his eyes, as he considered with some intensity this circumstance,
met another pair which had just come within their range and which struck him as reflecting
his sense of what he had done.  He recognised them at the same moment as those of little Bilham,
who had apparently drawn near on purpose to speak to him, and little Bilham wasn't, in the
conditions, the person to whom his heart would be most closed. They were seated together a
minute later at the angle of the room obliquely opposite the corner in which Gloriani was still
engaged with Jeanne de Vionnet, to whom at first and in silence their attention had been benevolently
given.  "I can't see for my life," Strether had then observed, "how a young fellow of any spirit--such
a one as you for instance--can be admitted to the sight of that young lady without being hard
hit.  Why don't you go in, little Bilham?"  He remembered the tone into which he had been betrayed
on the garden-bench at the sculptor's reception, and this might make up for that by being much
more the right sort of thing to say to a young man worthy of any advice at all. "There WOULD
be some reason."

"Some reason for what?"

"Why for hanging on here."

"To offer my hand and fortune to Mademoiselle de Vionnet?"

"Well," Strether asked, "to what lovelier apparition COULD you offer them?  She's the sweetest
little thing I've ever seen."

"She's certainly immense.  I mean she's the real thing.  I believe the pale pink petals are
folded up there for some wondrous efflorescence in time; to open, that is, to some great golden
sun. I'M unfortunately but a small farthing candle.  What chance in such a field for a poor
little painter-man?"

"Oh you're good enough," Strether threw out.

"Certainly I'm good enough.  We're good enough, I consider, nous autres, for anything.  But
she's TOO good.  There's the difference. They wouldn't look at me."

Strether, lounging on his divan and still charmed by the young girl, whose eyes had consciously
strayed to him, he fancied, with a vague smile--Strether, enjoying the whole occasion as with
dormant pulses at last awake and in spite of new material thrust upon him, thought over his
companion's words.  "Whom do you mean by 'they'? She and her mother?"

"She and her mother.  And she has a father too, who, whatever else he may be, certainly can't
be indifferent to the possibilities she represents.  Besides, there's Chad."

Strether was silent a little.  "Ah but he doesn't care for her--not, I mean, it appears, after
all, in the sense I'm speaking of.  He's NOT in love with her."

"No--but he's her best friend; after her mother.  He's very fond of her.  He has his ideas
about what can be done for her."

"Well, it's very strange!" Strether presently remarked with a sighing sense of fulness.

"Very strange indeed.  That's just the beauty of it.  Isn't it very much the kind of beauty
you had in mind," little Bilham went on, "when you were so wonderful and so inspiring to me
the other day? Didn't you adjure me, in accents I shall never forget, to see, while I've a
chance, everything I can?--and REALLY to see, for it must have been that only you meant.  Well,
you did me no end of good, and I'm doing my best.  I DO make it out a situation."

"So do I!" When his will was opened, it was by the side of Sarah he wished to be buried: "As to my Body,
I desire it may be interred under the Tombstone in the enclosed ground
in the Presbyterian Yard near where my first wife and children are
interred."[76]

This house was the social and political center of
Alexandria.

Such men as Charles Carroll, Aaron Burr, John Paul Jones, John Marshall,
Thomas Jefferson, George Mason, George Washington, and the two Fairfaxes
are but a few of those who gathered here for good food, good wine,
and better talk.

Any visitor of importance was entertained at "coffee"; the house was often filled with music, and "balls"
were common.

The "Congress of Alexandria" met here Monday, April 14, 1755, and on
the following Tuesday and Wednesday, when with Braddock and the five
colonial governors plans were made for concerted action against the
French and Indians.

Here that famous letter, still in existence, was written, urging
upon the British government the necessity of taxing the colonies.
This letter set into movement a chain of events disastrous to the mother
country.

It resulted in the loathed Stamp Act and led ultimately to the Revolution of 1775.

Carlyle was appointed collector of His Majesty's customs on the South
Potomac in 1758, succeeding his father-in-law, William Fairfax.

In 1762 he was importing race horses into the colony. These were imported,
"just as they imported Madeira wine and other luxuries."

One of the early Maryland gazettes of July 29, 1762 carries the following advertisement:

Imported by Carlyle & Dalton in the ship Christian, Captain Stanly,
and for sale, three horses [Thorne's Starling: Smith's Hero, and Leary's
Old England] and three mares [the other two being the Rock-mares Nos.

1 and 2] of full blood, viz: A ch. m. with a star and two white heels behind,
eight years old: Got by Wilson's Chestnut Arabian: her dam by Slipby,
brother to Snap's dam; and out of Menil [sic] the dam of Trunnion. Menil
was got by Partner: out of Sampson's-Sister, which was got by Greyhound:
her grandam by Curwen's Bay Barb: her g. grandam by Ld.

D'Arcy's Arabian: her dam by Whiteshirt: out of a famous
mare of Ld. Montagu's.

JOHN CARLYLE[77]

Alexandria, Va., July 1762.

In 1772 Carlyle took over the incompleted work on Christ Church and carried
it to completion. In 1773 he bought pew No. 19. In 1774 he built the
Presbyterian meetinghouse.

In between times he was hunting at Belvoir and Mount Vernon, dancing
at Alexandria assemblies, sitting as town trustee and gentleman justice,
journeying to England and back, laying out and planting his garden,
taking part in long, hot arguments with his family and neighbors in
the ever-widening breach between the colonies and the mother country,
breeding race horses, and joining in the frolics of the Jockey Club.

Heir to a
title old and honorable as it was, he ardently espoused the cause of the
colonies. Too ill for active military service, he nevertheless served
as a member of the Committee of Safety until his death in 1780, at the
age of sixty.

John Carlyle divided his lands, named after the Scottish family holdings,
Limkiln, Bridekirk, Torthorwald Taken, between his two grandsons,
Carlyle Fairfax Whiting and John Carlyle Herbert.

To his daughter, Sarah Herbert, he left thirty feet on Fairfax Street
and one hundred feet on Cameron Street, to include his dryware house.

The mansion and all other property were for a brief period the property of his only son.

In his will he expressed the utmost concern for the education of this boy, George William Carlyle,
and urged his executors to spare no expense and to send him to the best schools. Alas, for the plans of men! The
lad, fired by the talk of father and friends, was serving in Lee's Legion
in 1781, and ere John Carlyle was moldering in his grave this boy of seventeen
years, spirited, brave, heir to large estates, great fortune and honorable
name, and to the title of Lord Carlyle, was dead at Eutaw Springs,
led by that boy hardly older than himself "Light Horse Harry" Lee.

Enough
of serious and sad history; let us in lighter vein go once more into
the lovely paneled blue room where not only weighty conferences occurred,
but where, in lace and satin, noble figures threw aside the cares
of state and trod a measure to the tinkling of the spinet; where games
of cards were indulged in and the pistoles changed hands.

Let us go into the dining room with its fine Adam mantel and its
mahogany doors, and visualize again the terrapin and the canvasback, the
Madeira and Port so abundantly provided from that great kitchen below,
and the most famous wine cellar of its day in Alexandria. Let us stroll
in the still lovely garden where the aroma of box and honeysuckle mingle,
and turn our thoughts once more to the inmates of this fine, old
house.

Built in the days when Virginia was a man's world, when men who wore
satin, velvet and damask were masters of the art of fighting, riding,
drinking, eating, and wooing. When a man knew what he wanted, and
got it by God's help and his own tenacity, enjoying himself right
lustily in the getting. Perchance Major John Carlyle, clad in Saxon green
laced with silver, will be wandering up and down his box-bordered
paths with his first love, Sarah Fairfax, watching the moon light
up the rigging of Carlyle & Dalton's great ships at anchor just at
the foot of the garden.

Chapter 3

The Married Houses

[209-211 North Fairfax Street. Owner: Mrs. Herbert E. Marshburn.]

When the new town of Alexandria was laid out, John Dalton purchased,
on July 13, 1749, the first lot put up for sale (No. 36) for the sum
of nineteen pistoles.

The lot faced the Potomac River and was bounded by Water (now Lee) Street, Fairfax Street and lot No.
37. When the latter lot, which lay on Cameron and Fairfax, was put up later
in the day, it was purchased by Dalton for sixteen pistoles.

Within three years Dalton had finished a small frame-and-brick cottage, neatly
paneled, in which he is purported to have lived and died. The house
faced on Cameron Street, standing about the middle of lot No. 37, with
an extensive garden running the depth of the premises to the river,
surrounded by outbuildings, orchards, wells, and so on, as was the
custom of the times.

His will mentioned the fact that he lived on this lot and left to
his daughter, Jenny Dalton (later Mrs. Thomas Herbert), his new brick
building on the corner of Fairfax and Cameron.

His will
further stated that the house must be finished out of his estate.
To his daughter, Catherine (later Mrs. William Bird), he left the remainder
of the lot which included his dwelling and another house on that same
lot, at the time occupied by John Page.

On February 27, 1750, John Dalton succeeded Richard Osborn as a trustee
of the town. His appointment was the first after the original selection
of trustees by the assembly in Williamsburg.

John Dalton was a partner of John Carlyle in the firm of Carlyle & Dalton, which
for many years acted as agent for the Mount Vernon produce.

He was a pew owner with George Washington at Christ Church, which he served
as vestryman. With his wife and daughter, he was a frequent visitor at
Mount Vernon and a later chronicler has asserted that he barely missed
becoming the General's father-in-law.

A fox-hunter and horse-lover, in a company of Alexandria gentlemen or alone, he hunted
with Washington and bred his mares to the blooded Mount Vernon stud.

On January 12, 1769, Washington went up to Alexandria to "ye Monthly Ball." He lodged
with Captain Dalton and the next day being very bad he was "confined
there till afternoon by rain."[78] Sometimes when attending court he "lodged
at Captn. Dalton's."[79]

John Dalton's
bequest to his daughter, Catherine, included the home place. On April
24, 1793, Catherine and her husband, William Bird, sold to Jonah Thompson
and David Findley for £1,500 (about $7,500) the property described
as being in Fairfax Street, 60 feet to the north of Cameron, and extending
north upon Fairfax Street 119 feet 3 inches to the line of Herbert,
Potts and Wilson, thence East parallel to Cameron to cross Water and
Union Streets into the Potomac River, thence with a line parallel
to Fairfax south 119 feet 3 inches, and included houses, buildings,
streets, lanes, alleys, and so on.

But the Birds reserved the right to the "use and occupation of the dwelling
House now occupied" and the kitchen and garden, until the "1st day
of October next" and also reserved unto Lanty Crowe the house "demised
unto him to the end of his term, he paying the annual rent thereof
unto the said Jonah Thompson and David Findley."[80] Findley died
within the year and Jonah Thompson bought from Amelia Findley, the
mother and heir of David Findley, equal and undivided portion of the
already described lot and paid her the sum of £500 12s.

Jonah Thompson was an important citizen of Alexandria.

He was a shipping merchant, banker and large property owner. He married Margaret Peyton and they had three
sons, Israel, William Edward, and James; a daughter, Mary Ann, married
a Mr. Popham, and another daughter, Eugenia, married a Mr. Morgan.

In
1809 Jonah Thompson mortgaged this property to the Bank of Alexandria for
$13,500, which he paid within four years. In May 1850, the heirs of
Jonah Thompson sold to Benjamin Hallowell for $4,600 a lot beginning
at the south side of the alley which divided the block, running south
43 feet 7 inches. Benjamin Hallowell, in turn, sold to James S. Hallowell
for nine thousand dollars in April 1854, and from James S. Hallowell
and his wife the property passed through various hands until it became
St. Mary's Academy.

The Jonah Thompson house, part of it at least already built in 1793,
is one of the most interesting houses to be found anywhere.

It is unusually large and has two handsome arched stone entrances. One, although
similar, obviously was added, as the line of demarcation is plainly
visible between the bricks.

The house has been sadly abused with no thought given its architectural
merits and much of the woodwork has been removed. The stair is perhaps
the finest in Alexandria, with spindles and risers carved in a more
elaborate fashion than was the practice of the thrifty Scotsmen of
Alexandria.

At the rear of this large house, separated only by a narrow area, stands
another house, facing the long garden and originally the river. The
front of this house boasts the loveliest bit of Georgian architecture left
in the old seaport. A pure Adam loggia, executed in stone, runs across
the garden façade. While arches are now filled in and clothes hung to dry
flap on the gallery, the outline is so chaste in its classic form that
nothing can destroy the illusion of beauty.

No search of records reveals how or why these two houses stand back to back.
Whether Jonah Thompson built the first for his bank or business offices,
or whether his family outgrew the house and he needed more room is
not known.

The two are treated as one house in all the documentary evidence,
and one's curiosity, interest, and imagination are excited by the
twin or married houses.

One
story has it that Jonah Thompson built the rear or twin house for his
eldest son so that the two families might be together but with separate
ménages.

Captain John Dalton forged a link between Mount Vernon, his family, and
his posterity that was stronger than he knew.

It was his granddaughter who was so deeply distressed at the ruin and desolation
of the home of Washington that she fired her daughter's imagination
with an idea that saved the spot for the nation. This great-granddaughter
of John Dalton was Ann Pamela Cunningham, whose name will ever be
indissolubly connected with Mount Vernon.

In 1853 she formed the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association, and as its first
regent stirred the women of America with her ardor and directed the
entire campaign until adequate funds were collected. In 1859 John
Augustine Washington sold the Mount Vernon estate to Miss Cunningham
for two hundred thousand dollars--after the Virginia Legislature and
the federal government had both refused to acquire it.

This sale was negotiated by the Alexandria banker, John W. Burke, who
was appointed executor and guardian of John Augustine Washington's
estate after he was killed during the Civil War while on active duty
as a member of General Robert E. Lee's staff.

When the war broke out, Alexandria was occupied by Union troops.

The Union authorities knew of the sale of Mount Vernon and repeated but futile efforts were made to find the
securities. Mr. Burke's home was searched no less than three times. The
funds were never found in their hiding place of the soiled-clothes
basket. There they reposed until Mrs. Burke (née Trist, great-granddaughter
of Thomas Jefferson) and Mrs. Upton Herbert (née Tracy), both Philadelphia-born
ladies, sewed the bonds in their petticoats and with high heads carried them
through the Union lines to Washington and delivered them to George W. Riggs, who
held them for the duration of the war, when he returned them to Alexandria--and
Mr. Burke.

An interesting sequel to the story occurred only a short time ago
when the last of John Augustine Washington's children died.

Mr. Taylor Burke, grandson of John W. Burke, and president of the Burke & Herbert Bank, administered the estate
of the late Mrs. Eleanor Washington Howard, and distributed her estate,
composed of the remainder of that purchase price, among her heirs.[81]

Chapter 4

The Fairfaxes of Belvoir and Alexandria

Of the families in Virginia closely associated with George Washington,
none bore so intimate a relation as that of Fairfax.

William Fairfax, founder of the Virginia branch of the family, was born in 1691 in Towlston in Yorkshire,
England, the son of the Honorable Henry Fairfax, Sheriff of Yorkshire, and
grandson of the Fourth Lord Fairfax. Educated as a member of the governing
classes, he began his career in the navy, later entering the colonial
service. Before he was twenty-six he had acted as chief justice of
the Bahamas and Governor of the Isle of Providence.

Prior to 1717 he married Sarah Walker of Nassau, daughter of Colonel Walker,
by whom he had four children, George William, Thomas, Anne, and Sarah.
In 1729, Colonel Fairfax was appointed Collector of the Port of Salem, Massachusetts,
and removed to that colony. In 1731 his wife died, and very shortly afterward
he married Deborah, widow of Francis Clarke and daughter of Colonel
Bartholomew Gedney of Salem, by whom he had three children, Bryan,
William Henry, and Hannah.

In 1734 Fairfax came to Virginia as agent for his first cousin, Thomas,
Sixth Lord Fairfax (who, by direct inheritance from a royal grant
of Charles II, had come into possession of some five million acres
of Virginia land lying between the Rappahannock and the Potomac, and
extending from Chesapeake Bay to the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains,
known to Virginians as the Northern Neck); and to serve as Collector
of Customs for the South Potomac.

Fairfax first went to Westmoreland, where he was associated with the Washington
and Lee families. Next he moved to King George, and lived at Falmouth. By 1741
he was representing Prince William County in the House of Burgesses.

Colonel Fairfax was elevated to "His Majesty's Council of State" three
years later.

Becoming President of the Council in 1744, he continued in that office until
his death.

About this time William Fairfax completed his dwelling house, Belvoir,
situated on a high bluff overlooking the Potomac River, halfway between
Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall.

It was described by Washington in an advertisement as having "four convenient rooms and a wide Hall
on the first floor." In one of these "convenient rooms," more than two hundred
years ago on July 19, 1743, Anne, eldest daughter of Colonel Fairfax
was married to Lawrence Washington of Mount Vernon.
  He might have been a student under the charm of a museum--which was exactly
what, in a foreign town, in the afternoon of life, he would have liked to be free to be.  This
form of sacrifice did at any rate for the occasion as well as another; it made him quite sufficiently
understand how, within the precinct, for the real refugee, the things of the world could fall
into abeyance.  That was the cowardice, probably--to dodge them, to beg the question, not to
deal with it in the hard outer light; but his own oblivions were too brief, too vain, to hurt
any one but himself, and he had a vague and fanciful kindness for certain persons whom he met,
figures of mystery and anxiety, and whom, with observation for his pastime, he ranked as those
who were fleeing from justice.  Justice was outside, in the hard light, and injustice too;
but one was as absent as the other from the air of the long aisles and the brightness of the
many altars.

Thus it was at all events that, one morning some dozen days after the dinner in the Boulevard
Malesherbes at which Madame de Vionnet had been present with her daughter, he was called upon
to play his part in an encounter that deeply stirred his imagination.  He had the habit, in
these contemplations, of watching a fellow visitant, here and there, from a respectable distance,
remarking some note of behaviour, of penitence, of prostration, of the absolved, relieved state;
this was the manner in which his vague tenderness took its course, the degree of demonstration
to which it naturally had to confine itself.  It hadn't indeed so felt its responsibility as
when on this occasion he suddenly measured the suggestive effect of a lady whose supreme stillness,
in the shade of one of the chapels, he had two or three times noticed as he made, and made
once more, his slow circuit.  She wasn't prostrate--not in any degree bowed, but she was strangely
fixed, and her prolonged immobility showed her, while he passed and paused, as wholly given
up to the need, whatever it was, that had brought her there.  She only sat and gazed before
her, as he himself often sat; but she had placed herself, as he never did, within the focus
of the shrine, and she had lost herself, he could easily see, as he would only have liked to
do. She was not a wandering alien, keeping back more than she gave, but one of the familiar,
the intimate, the fortunate, for whom these dealings had a method and a meaning. "He had a son name
Simmon, an' a gal name Sue, not countin' his ol' 'oman, an' dey all live wid one an'er day atter day, an'
night atter night; an' when one un um went abroad, dey'd be spected home
'bout meal-time, ef not befo', an' dey segashuated right along fum
day ter day, washin' der face an' han's in de same wash-pan in de back
po'ch, an' wipin' on de same towel same ez all happy famblies allers does.

"Well,
time went on an' fotched de changes dat might be spected, an' one day
dar come a mighty knockin' on Brer B'ar's do'.

Brer B'ar, he holla out, he did. 'Who dat come a-knockin' dis time er de year, 'fo'
de corn's done planted, er de cotton-crap's pitched?' De one at de do'
make a big noise, an' rattle de hinges.

Brer B'ar holla out, he did, 'Don't t'ar down my house! Who is you,
anyhow, an' what you want?' An' de answer come, 'I'm one an' darfo' not
two; ef youer mo' dan one, who is you an' what you doin' in dar?' Brer
B'ar, he say, sezee, 'I'm all er one an' mighty nigh two, but I'd thank
you fer ter tell me yo' full fambly name.' Den de answer come.

"'I'm de knocker an' de mover bofe, an' ef I can't clim' over I'll crawl under
ef you do but gi' me de word. Some calls me Brer Polecat, an' some
a big word dat it aint wuff while ter ermember, but I wanter move in.
It's mighty col' out here, an' all I meets tells me it's mighty warm
in dar whar you is.' Den ol' Brer B'ar say, sezee.

'It's warm nuff fer dem what stays in here, but not nigh so warm fer
dem on de outside.

What does you reely want?' Brer Polecat 'spon', he did, 'I wants a heap
er things dat I don't git. I'm a mighty good housekeeper, but I takes
notice dat dar's mighty few folks dat wants me ter keep house fer um.'
Brer B'ar say, sezee, 'I aint got no room fer no housekeeper; we aint skacely
got room fer ter go ter bed. Ef you kin keep my house on de outside, you er
mighty welcome.'

"Brer Polecat say, 'You may think you aint got no room, but I bet you got des ez much room ez anybody
what I know. Ef you let me in dar one time, I boun' you I'll make
all de room I want.'"

Uncle Remus paused
to see what effect this statement would have on the little boy. He
closed his eyes, as though he were tired, but when he opened them
again, he saw the faint shadow of a smile on the child's face.

"'Taint gwine ter hurt you fer ter laugh a little bit, honey. Brer
Polecat come in Brer B'ar's house, an' he had sech a bad breff dat
dey all hatter git out--an' he stayed an' stayed twel time stopped
runnin' ag'in' him."  She checked, quickly
and gaily, a certain confusion in him, came to meet it, turned it back, by an art of her own;
the confusion having threatened him as he knew her for the person he had lately been observing.
She was the lurking figure of the dim chapel; she had occupied him more than she guessed; but
it came to him in time, luckily, that he needn't tell her and that no harm, after all, had
been done.  She herself, for that matter, straightway showing she felt their encounter as the
happiest of accidents, had for him a "You come here too?" that despoiled surprise of every
awkwardness.

"I come often," she said.  "I love this place, but I'm terrible, in general, for churches.
The old women who live in them all know me; in fact I'm already myself one of the old women.
It's like that, at all events, that I foresee I shall end."  Looking about for a chair, so
that he instantly pulled one nearer, she sat down with him again to the sound of an "Oh, I
like so much your also being fond--!"

He confessed the extent of his feeling, though she left the object vague; and he was struck
with the tact, the taste of her vagueness, which simply took for granted in him a sense of
beautiful things. He was conscious of how much it was affected, this sense, by something subdued
and discreet in the way she had arranged herself for her special object and her morning walk--he
believed her to have come on foot; the way her slightly thicker veil was drawn--a mere touch,
but everything; the composed gravity of her dress, in which, here and there, a dull wine-colour
seemed to gleam faintly through black; the charming discretion of her small compact head; the
quiet note, as she sat, of her folded, grey-gloved hands. The same committee acted as almoners at the time of Chicago's great
fire, and also when the Western woods fires caused such suffering.

Without boasting, for much more might have been done, the Boston Association has no cause to be ashamed
of its history. Beginning with all ready to criticize, and many disapproving,
the Association has worked itself into the confidence of the community;
and the Reverend Joseph Cook, who was introduced as a lecturer to
Boston under its auspices, thus speaks of the Association at the close
of its quarter-century.

He says:--

"First, That there is a vast amount of work which should be done for
young men in cities, and that, as the proportion of the American population
living in cities had increased since the opening of this century
from one twenty-fifth to one fifth, the importance is great and growing.

"Second,

That neither individual churches taken separately, nor individual denominations taken separately,
can do this work easily or adequately.

"Third, That all the evangelical denominations united in a city can
do this work easily by the organization of a Young Men's Christian
Association as their representative."

A short time ago a committee of conference, made up of eight leading
city clergymen and as many laymen, two of each denomination, unanimously
passed the following resolutions:--

"Resolved, That the great and peculiar dangers to which young men
are exposed in this, as in other cities, clearly calls, for the work
of the Young Men's Christian Association.

"Resolved, That the Association represents the Church working through
its young men for the redemption of young men, and, therefore, it
is entitled to the continued confidence, support, and co-operation
of the churches."

After long years of patient and steady work, the Boston Young Men's
Christian Association has secured the confidence of the Christian
community to the extent of more than $300,000, in the palpable form
of stone and brick, which beautifies one of the finest sites in our
city.

It stands also as a monument of the liberality of Christian Boston
and her appreciation of this great work for young men in the Master's
name.

* * * * *

THE OHIO FLOODS.

BY THE HON. GEORGE E. JENKS.

Several causes are assigned for the excessive rise of water in the Ohio
valley. This water-shed is accredited with an area of two hundred thousand
square miles, and it lies upon the border-line of hot and cold temperatures.
It is subject to heavy storms, and sometimes, in winter, to large
accumulations of snow.

It is presumable also, the rainfall is greater than the average of the country. When, following
great deposits of snow, warm, heavy, and prolonged rains occur, excessive
floods must be the result.

Add to these coincidents the fact that forests, once existing, are now so
nearly annihilated that little protection is offered against a rapid
dissolution of the snow, and the sudden freezing of the earth in
an interval of the late storm preventing absorption of rain falling
thereafter.

The waters thus produced fall into the main streams without hindrance,
like rain from roofs of buildings. An aggregation of waters in this
valley, rising from fifty to seventy-one feet, is of annual occurrence,
intensified according to excesses and completeness of coincidents.

The damage arising from the Ohio flood of 1882 has been estimated at twelve millions of dollars;
that of 1883 at thirty-five to forty millions of dollars. If these estimates are approximately correct,
what must have been the damage from the flood of 1884!

There are other causes for the floods in the Ohio valley, and in all Southern streams,
that have been but little considered, which exercise undoubted and
immense influence in solving the peculiarities of the question under
consideration, and afford striking contrasts in different sections
of this country.

There are two water systems presented in North America. North of
about the forty-first degree of latitude probably the southern limit
of the once glacial region--a reservoir system prevails toward the
headwaters of all the streams. It includes New England, New York,
Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Dakota, and to the Rocky Mountains
divide, and all of the British Provinces to the Arctic Circle.  Strether had already been there three times--first
with Miss Gostrey, then with Chad, then with Chad again and with Waymarsh and little Bilham,
all of whom he had himself sagaciously entertained; and his pleasure was deep now on learning
that Madame de Vionnet hadn't yet been initiated.  When he had said as they strolled round
the church, by the river, acting at last on what, within, he had made up his mind to, "Will
you, if you have time, come to dejeuner with me somewhere?  For instance, if you know it, over
there on the other side, which is so easy a walk"--and then had named the place; when he had
done this she stopped short as for quick intensity, and yet deep difficulty, of response. 
She took in the proposal as if it were almost too charming to be true; and there had perhaps
never yet been for her companion so unexpected a moment of pride--so fine, so odd a case, at
any rate, as his finding himself thus able to offer to a person in such universal possession
a new, a rare amusement.  She had heard of the happy spot, but she asked him in reply to a
further question how in the world he could suppose her to have been there.  He supposed himself
to have supposed that Chad might have taken her, and she guessed this the next moment to his
no small discomfort.

"Ah, let me explain," she smiled, "that I don't go about with him in public; I never have such
chances--not having them otherwise--and it's just the sort of thing that, as a quiet creature
living in my hole, I adore."  It was more than kind of him to have thought of it--though, frankly,
if he asked whether she had time she hadn't a single minute. That however made no difference--she'd
throw everything over.  Every duty at home, domestic, maternal, social, awaited her; but it
was a case for a high line.  Her affairs would go to smash, but hadn't one a right to one's
snatch of scandal when one was prepared to pay?  It was on this pleasant basis of costly disorder,
consequently, that they eventually seated themselves, on either side of a small table, at a
window adjusted to the busy quay and the shining barge-burdened Seine; where, for an hour,
in the matter of letting himself go, of diving deep, Strether was to feel he had touched bottom.
He was to feel many things on this occasion, and one of the first of them was that he had travelled
far since that evening in London, before the theatre, when his dinner with Maria Gostrey, between
the pink-shaded candles, had struck him as requiring so many explanations.  He had at that
time gathered them in, the explanations--he had stored them up; but it was at present as if
he had either soared above or sunk below them--he couldn't tell which; he could somehow think
of none that didn't seem to leave the appearance of collapse and cynicism easier for him than
lucidity. CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy
man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the
mountains of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia,
Diocese of Metz.

In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight o'clock in the morning, he being
in his kitchen, with his niece and the servant, he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed
on the ground turn round three or four times, without its being set
in motion by any one.

A
moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the next room into the same kitchen,
in presence of the same persons, without their seeing the hand which threw it. The next day, at nine
o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass were broken, and through these
panes were thrown some stones, with what appeared to them supernatural
dexterity.

The spirit never hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night time, but always during the
day.

The curé employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his
house, and thenceforth the genius broke no more panes of glass; but
he continued to throw stones at the curé's people, without hurting
them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the
bucket; and afterwards he began to serve in the kitchen.

One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled them up as fast as she planted them,
and laid them in a heap. It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the German style;
the genius continued to play his tricks.

One day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade
was found thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any trace
being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that
on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two
soles, which the girl had locked up the evening before in a little
box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter, and putting it either all round
the kitchen, or in the porch, or even in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight. One day he filled
an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees, and, having put some water in it, carried it
to the ally or walk in the garden; another time he suspended it to the pot-hook over the fire. The servant having
broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's supper, the genius
broke two more into it in his presence, the maid having merely turned to
get some salt. The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found
all his earthenware, furniture, linen, bread, milk, and other things
scattered about over the house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one
time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in a moment,
before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place, and told him he was resolved
to quit the parsonage house.

Whilst this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them
that the genius had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had
put some money in a hole in the ground. They went there, and found things
exactly as she had said. They picked up the money, which what the curé
had put away in a place not locked up; and in a moment after they
found it anew, with some liards, two by two, scattered about the
kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to
the curé's house, and persuaded him that it was all the effect of
a spell; they told him to take two pistols, and fire them off at the
place where he might observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these officers two pieces of silver;
and from that time he was no longer perceived in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which the
elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had had credit enough to send in his stead
a familiar genius who puzzled the curé for some weeks; for, if he
were not bodily in this house, what had he to fear from any pistol
shot which might have been fired at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?

I have been told several times that a monk of the Cistercian order had a familiar
genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber, and prepared everything
ready for him when he was coming back from the country. They were so
accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these signs, and
he always arrived.

It is affirmed of another monk of the same order that he had a familiar
spirit, who warned him, not only of what passed in the house, but
also of what happened out of it; and one day he was awakened three
times, and warned that some monks were quarreling, and were ready to
come to blows; he ran to the spot, and put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus[284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons and
false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from them
many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not thought proper to be present, but the
decisions of which he desired to know, being in a boat with St. Sulpicius,
but apart from others, as usual with him, an angel appeared, and
informed him what had passed in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held, and
it was found to be at the same hour at which the angel had appeared
to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room and
his clothes.

One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard
him talking with some one; he entered, and asked who he was conversing
with. The youth affirmed that there was no one in his room, and, in fact,
the superior could neither see nor discover any one there. Nevertheless,
as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned that for some
years he had been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered him
every service that a domestic could have done, and had promised him
great advantages in the ecclesiastical profession.

The superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said. He
ordered the genius to set a chair for the superior; the genius obeyed.
Information of this was sent to the archbishop, who did not think proper
to give it publicity. The young clerk was sent away, and this singular
adventure was buried in silence.

Bodin[285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living
at the time he wrote, which was in 1588. This person had a familiar
who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting
his conduct, sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him
practice virtue, or to assist him; resolving the difficulties which
he might find in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel upon
his own affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning to awaken
him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing that
it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad day,
striking gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench.

When he desired to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched his right
ear; but if it was anything wrong and dangerous, he touched his
left ear; so that from that time nothing occurred to him of which
he was not warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in
imminent danger, he saw his genius, under the form of a child of
extraordinary beauty, who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris,[286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had
a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented
him from sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off
the bed-clothes, or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened to
him in the open country, and in the day time, to feel his cloak and
boots pulled at, and his hat thrown down; then he heard the bursts
of laughter and the voice of a person deceased and well known to him,
who seemed to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams, or
otherwise, can hardly be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.
A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise, senior,
a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words,
which he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote down
in French characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén apsychian."

He asked him what that meant. M. de Saumaise told him it meant, "Save yourself; do you not perceive
the death with which you are threatened?" Upon this hint, the man removed,
and left his house, which fell down the following night.[287]

The same story is related, with a little difference, by another author,
who says that the circumstance happened at Paris;[288] that the
genius spoke in Syriac, and that M. de Saumaise being consulted, replied,
"Go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day, at nine
o'clock in the evening."

It is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to add
a few circumstances by way of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going one
day to Nismes, with one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the latter,
having heard Peiresch talking in his sleep in the night, waked him,
and asked him what he said.

Peiresch answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered me a medal of
Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as I was going to
count him down his money, you waked me, to my great regret." They
arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized
the goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him
if he had nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal,
or coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch paid them,
and was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished.

Here is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a
little in the same style.[289] A learned man of Dijon, after having
wearied himself all day with an important passage in a Greek poet,
without being able to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of
this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm,
introduced him into the palace of Queen Christina, conducted him into the library,
and showed him a small volume, which was precisely what he sought. He
opened it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely
cleared up the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and
wrote down the verses he had seen at Stockholm.

On the morrow, he wrote to M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and
begged of him to look in such a place, and in such a division of the
library, if the book, of which he sent him the description, were there,
and if the Greek verses which he sent him were to be read in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also
the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one
of his friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would
send it him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of
Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but did
not lead him to do others.

It is asserted[290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army, commanded by
Laches, Socrates, flying like the others, with this Athenian general,
and being arrived at a spot where several roads met, Socrates would not follow
the road taken by the other fugitives; and when they asked him the
reason, he replied, because his genius drew him away from it. The event
justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other road were
either killed or made prisoners by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful whether the elves, of which so many things are related,
are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church admits nothing between
these two kinds of genii. Every genius is either good or bad; but as
there are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says,[291] and as there
are among the blessed, various degrees of glory, differing from each
other, so we may believe that there are in hell various degrees of
pain and punishment for the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible, and divert
themselves in disquieting the living? Why do they attach themselves
to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to others?

Why do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain time, and that sometimes
a short space?

I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy and
prejudice; but their reality has been so often experienced by the discourse
they have held, and the actions they have performed in the presence
of many wise and enlightened persons, that I cannot persuade myself that
among the great number of stories related of them there are not at least
some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good,
to prayer, or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions.

If they do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments of the damned, on the efficacy
of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may be perceived,
it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power. The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving
us. All those to whom these genii attach themselves have a horror of them,
mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that these familiar demons do
not lead them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves
from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me, "I no
more doubt the truth of than if I had been a witness of it."

Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of
cuirassiers, was in winter quarters in Flanders. One of his men came to
him one day to beg that he would change his landlord, saying that every night
there came into his bed-room a spirit, which would not allow him to
sleep. The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity.
Some days after, the same horseman came back and made the same request
to him; the only reply of the captain would have been a volley of
blows with a stick, had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight.

At last, he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to his captain that he could bear it no
longer, and should be obliged to desert if his lodgings were not
changed. Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said
to him, with an oath, "I will go this night and sleep with you, and
see what is the matter."

At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table,
he lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a moment turned the bed upside
down, covering the captain and the soldier with the mattress and paillasse. Despilliers
had great trouble to disengage himself and find again his sword and
pistols, and he returned home much confounded. The horse-soldier
had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly in the house
of his new host.

M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen
to it. He was an intrepid man, who had never known what it was to
fall back before danger.

He died field-marshal of the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. and governor of
the fortress of Ségedin. His son has confirmed this adventure to me
within a short time, as having heard it from his father.

The person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes
return; but I have found myself in a great many places which it was
said they haunted. I have even tried several times to see them, but I
have never seen any.

I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who all said
they saw the spirit; I was the only one in the assembly who saw nothing."
So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same letter
wherein he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes:

[284] St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. ii. c. 2.

[286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8.

[287] Grot. Epist. Part. ii. Ep. 405.

[288] They affirm that it happened at Dijon, in the family of the MM.
Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory of
the circumstance.

[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p.
55.

[290] Cicero, de Divinat. lib. i.

[291] John xiv. 2.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH OVER TREASURE.

Everybody acknowledges that
there is an infinity of riches buried in the earth, or lost under
the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the demon, whom they look
upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon, the Pluto of the pagans,
is the depositary, or at least the guardian, of these treasures. We
know also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures in
the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them
in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them
in those gloomy places. Job seems to make allusion to this ancient
custom, when he says,[293] "Would to God I had never been born: I
should now sleep with the kings and great ones of the earth, who built
themselves solitary places; like unto those who seek for treasure,
and are rejoiced when they find a tomb;" doubtless because they hope
to find great riches therein.

There were very precious things in
the tomb of Cyrus.  Strether had turned again to his glass.

"Back, at last, as I promised.  I'm ready--I've really been ready this month.  I've only been
waiting for you--as was perfectly right. But you're better now; you're safe--I see that for
myself; you've got all your good.  You're looking, this morning, as fit as a flea."

Strether, at his glass, finished dressing; consulting that witness moreover on this last opinion.
WAS he looking preternaturally fit? There was something in it perhaps for Chad's wonderful
eye, but he had felt himself for hours rather in pieces.  Such a judgement, however, was after
all but a contribution to his resolve; it testified unwittingly to his wisdom.  He was still
firmer, apparently--since it shone in him as a light--than he had flattered himself.  His firmness
indeed was slightly compromised, as he faced about to his friend, by the way this very personage
looked--though the case would of course have been worse hadn't the secret of personal magnificence
been at every hour Chad's unfailing possession.  There he was in all the pleasant morning freshness
of it--strong and sleek and gay, easy and fragrant and fathomless, with happy health in his
colour, and pleasant silver in his thick young hair, and the right word for everything on the
lips that his clear brownness caused to show as red.  He had never struck Strether as personally
such a success; it was as if now, for his definite surrender, he had gathered himself vividly
together.  This, sharply and rather strangely, was the form in which he was to be presented
to Woollett.  Our friend took him in again--he was always taking him in and yet finding that
parts of him still remained out; though even thus his image showed through a mist of other
things. "I've had a cable," Strether said, "from your mother."

"I dare say, my dear man.  I hope she's well."

Strether hesitated.  "No--she's not well, I'm sorry to have to tell you."

"Ah," said Chad, "I must have had the instinct of it.  All the more reason then that we should
start straight off."

Strether had now got together hat, gloves and stick, but Chad had dropped on the sofa as if
to show where he wished to make his point. He kept observing his companion's things; he might
have been judging how quickly they could be packed. In other words, he has added to the unscientific
history of the Negro, which has hitherto appeared in the so-called text
books on Negro history, facts culled from various sources but so
improperly used as not to develop the subject.

Strether had in his hand his telegram, which he had kept there after attaching his watch, and
he now offered it to Chad, who, however, with an odd movement, declined to take it.  "Thanks,
I'd rather not.  Your correspondence with Mother's your own affair.  I'm only WITH you both
on it, whatever it is."  Strether, at this, while their eyes met, slowly folded the missive
and put it in his pocket; after which, before he had spoken again, Chad broke fresh ground.
"Has Miss Gostrey come back?"

But when Strether presently spoke it wasn't in answer.  "It's not, I gather, that your mother's
physically ill; her health, on the whole, this spring, seems to have been better than usual.
But she's worried, she's anxious, and it appears to have risen within the last few days to
a climax.  We've tired out, between us, her patience."

"Oh it isn't YOU!" Chad generously protested.

"I beg your pardon--it IS me."  Strether was mild and melancholy, but firm.  He saw it far
away and over his companion's head.  "It's very particularly me."

"Well then all the more reason.  Marchons, marchons!" said the young man gaily. This melancholly event
took place about a quarter before three o'clock in the afternoon--a few minutes previously to the
time ordinarily set apart for the ringing of the bell for the exercises
of Public Worship. It was just at the close of a refreshing shower
of rain, attended as is usual at this season of the year, with peals
of thunder and flashes of vivid lightening.

The Electric fluid seems to have been attracted by the spire of the
Steeple, which--running up from the centre of a four-sided roof rising
in the form of a pyramid--was rapidly conducted by means of a large
quantity of iron used for the security of the timbers, to the shingles
and other combustible materials of three of the corners of the building,
almost directly under the eave.

There entirely inaccesible for some minutes to any efforts which could be made use of for the purpose
of quenching it, and continually fed by the qualities of the matter
with which its work of desolation, with a rapidity which was truly awful
and appalling. In a space of time too brief almost to be deemed credible
by such as were not witnesses of the sublime and fearful spectacle,
the entire roof exhibited to the immense multitude gathered around
to mingle their sympathies and tender their assistance, nothing but
one mighty map of living fire--curling in rapid and terrific volumes
around the still suspended tho tottering steeple; and smiling at every
effort towards extinction, save that of Him--that Dread and Aweful
Being, by whom the flame had been enkindled.

A period of two hours had not elapsed from the commencement of the conflagration, before the whole
edifice except the walls, was involved in one shapeless mass of smoking
ruin, presenting a scene, as desolating and repulsive to the common
citizen, as it was tearful and heart-rending to the church and congregation.

Our holy and beautiful house where our fathers praised the Lord--to use the language of the Prophet,--was thus
burned up with fire; and all our pleasant things laid waste.

With the exception of the lamps, a venerable clock in front of the Gallery opposite, the pulpit,
the books and cushions, a part of the windows, the Stoves, a large
proportion of the pipes of a Splendid Organ which was split open with
an axe for that purpose, and some of the plank broken from the pews--all
was destroyed; and but for the real and practical sympathy of many
of our esteemed citizens in braving dangers of no common magnitude,
a like destruction had been the fate of these also.

The house had been standing for more than 63 years--the steeple and galleries
had been built somewhat later--and except the Episcopal church on Washington
Street, generally known by the name of "Christ's Church"--was the
oldest of all the ten places of religious worship in town.

For many years its bell was the only Church-going signal within the
limits of the corporation; and owing to this circumstance, connected
with its peculiarly clear and inviting tones, the destruction of it--which
was caused by its fall from so lofty an eminence--seemed the occasion
of regrets to the public at large, more immediately expressed than
for the edifice itself.

To the congregation, no loss besides the house, was more deeply deplored
than that of the large and richly toned Organ. Not only because of its
superior worth as an Instrument of Music, the difficulty of replacing
it by another, and the sacred uses to which it was applied, but equally
because it had been presented by a few venerated and much esteemed
individuals, most of whom are now sleeping in the dust.

For several years, there had been an Insurance effected on the building
to the amount of five thousand dollars--two thousand five hundred on each of
the Offices in town. But it so happened in providence, that one of
these Policies, which had expired about four or five months previous,
had never been renewed;--so that with the exception of twenty-five
hundred dollars, the loss to the congregation was total.

Yet there was one circumstance which ought to be recorded with emotions
of adoring gratitude. The calamity took place at a time when on ordinary
occasions, some individuals would have been in the house--as it was
so near the hour of the afternoon's service,--and had that been the case
now, there is much reason to fear, that it would have been attended,
if not with loss of life, at any rate with serious injury to not a
few.

But it had been so ordered by Infinite Wisdom no doubt, that, for the first
Sabbath in more than two years, the Church was closed during the whole of
that day--the Pastor having been providentially called away to supply
the pulpit of a sick brother in the neighboring city of Georgetown.
So that no individual was in the house, and no serious injury occurred
to any individual during the progress of the fire--and thus, while
there is much to produce sadness and to call for deep humiliation
before God, the Session would feel, that there is still something
to awaken emotions of gratitude and praise; and that however severely
the loss may be felt, yet it has not been unattended with significant
expressions of kindness and regard.

Dr. Harrison's lamentations, while justified, were not for complete demolition. In the minutes of the trustees,
the fact is stated that the roof and cupola burned and fell in, destroying
much of the interior woodwork, but not all.

The walls and part of the galleries remained intact, Dr. Muir's tablet
was uninjured, many windows were not broken, and the organ, at first
thought destroyed, was very little injured; it remains in use to this
day, and likewise the old clock.

However, the damage was terrific and there was only a nominal insurance
to cover the loss.

Part of the
congregation wished a new building site and it was given some thought,
but the "siller"

[silver]
was found to be inadequate for the purpose. The amount in the treasury did cover the cost of restoration,
and on April 5, 1836, it was "Resolved, That the congregation of the Church be called to meet at
the Lecture room on Friday evening next at 1/2 past 7 o'clock, to
decide permanently on the location of the Church."[131] In November the
committee minutes recorded that "The location of the Church was permanently
fixed on the old site,"[132] and on February 7, 1837, "Mr. Smith,
from the committee appointed to consult on the propriety of lowering
the gallery, reported that it was thought to be inexpedient to do so."[133]
The final notation on the new church read: "It was, on Motion Resolved
that our New house of worship, be solemnly Dedicated to the Worship
of Almighty God on the last Sabbath of July next--it being on that day
two years before, that our former house of worship was consumed by
fire...."[134]

It is distressing to think of the eighteenth century
interior destroyed on that hot afternoon of July 1835, but we must
be grateful for what the rebuilders of 1837 preserved as an outstanding
example of Georgian architecture.

In 1843
the tower was added: it was in the approximate location that the pulpit
had stood for many years. In 1853 the front vestibule was constructed.

Dr.
Harrison was a delicate man and for a long time his health was far from
good.

In 1848 he was so wretched that it was recommended he go south for his health. The firm of
Lambert & McKenzie offered Dr. Harrison a free passage to and from
the Barbados on the barque Archibald Gracie.

The minutes of the committee record the motion of appreciation to the owners.

Mr. Robert Bell of the old printing firm of that name made a gift
of letter paper to Dr. Harrison every Christmas for many years.

In his latter years the Doctor in thanking Mr. Bell always said that
he never expected to see another Christmas.

He saw at least three after the first of these communications, for
that many letters exist containing the same mournful allusion.

In 1862 the Civil War disrupted the Church. Dr. Elias Harrison died
in 1863 after forty-three years of ministering to his congregation
and with his death the Church ceased to function and its congregation
scattered.

During the Battle of Bull Run, it was used as a hospital for wounded
soldiers, and from time to time it was used by other faiths, including
a Negro Baptist congregation.

Neglected, uncared for, the prey of thieves and vandals, the doors were finally
closed.

The cemetery lies between the Church and the manse. Here John Carlyle sleeps.
Cofounder and trustee of Alexandria in 1748; son-in-law to Colonel
William Fairfax; brother-in-law to Lawrence Washington; commissary
of the Virginia forces under Braddock in 1755; collector of customs
on the South Potomac, and major in the Revolution; a Scottish gentleman,
heir to a title, he cast his fate with the colonies.

Nearby lies the tomb of William Hunter, founder of St. Andrew's Society,
and that beloved friend and physician of General Washington, Dr.
James Craik.

Ramsay, McKenzie, Muir, Vowell, Harper, Hepburn and Balfour are among
the names found inscribed upon the old stones. Their dust makes of this soil
a part of Old Scotland.

Chapter 12

Presenting The Sun Fire Company

In the eighteenth century calamities visited Alexandria, and of these
nothing was more feared than fire. To prevent and control such catastrophes
the gentlemen of the town formed themselves into several companies
of fire fighters.

How and with what means the raging holocausts were controlled is revealed
in an old, mutilated, leather-bound minute book of the Sun Fire Company.[135]
The first entry in this treasure is part of the damaged record for
the March meeting in 1775.

The next page is numbered 9 and contains the minutes for the April
meeting. This is evidence that the Company was formed in 1774 between
August and December.

At this March 1775 meeting it was agreed to limit the number of the Company
to forty-five persons. The clerk for this meeting was John Dalton; members
served as clerks in rotation. Absent members were fined one shilling
three pence. Members were to be provided with two buckets, a brown linen or
oznaburg bag containing at least four yards of material, and a wicker basket
as soon as possible after admittance. These were to be hung up in good
order and always in place.

There was a forfeiture of money for any neglect. The Company took some
several months to acquire proper ladders and hooks. In April the "propriety
of purchasing an Engine" was discussed and at the June meeting it was agreed
to postpone the matter.

Three ladders were then finished but most of the buckets were at
the painters being marked with owners' names and numbers.

By August
the ladders had been completed by Thomas Flemming, and John Dalton was ordered
to procure locks with proper staples for securing the ladders under the "piazza of
the Court House."

As the Revolutionary War got under way many of the members were excused, "being frequently abroad
on the Servis of Their Country." Among these were Captain Valentine Peirs, Captain John Allison, Colonel John
Fitzgerald and J. Windsor Brown.

Unfortunately the clerks took for granted that everybody knew when there
had been a fire and rarely are these important events mentioned in the
minutes.

In January 1777, "William Wilson lost a bucket at the late fire" and he was authorized to purchase
another at the Company's expense; Robert Adam, who was clerk, forgot
to "warn the Company and was fined Ten Shillings"; several members neglected
to put up lights when the late fire happened at Zael Cooper's and the fine
was two shillings. The next clerk was "desired to Enquire of the
several members if they had candles at their windows and to collect
Fines from such of them as had not."

The light begins to break--at the first hint of fire the Company member must,
at the fastest possible speed, put lighted candles in the front windows
of his dwelling. This was Alexandria's first alarm system! The member
then dashed for four yards of material in an oznaburg bag, two leather
fire buckets (they each weighed as much as a saddle) and a wicker
basket and, without stopping, he raced to the fire, where he either
pumped water, formed spectators in ranks for passing buckets, removed
goods from burning houses in his bag or basket, climbed ladders or
pulled down adjoining houses when necessary; and last but not least
watched to "prevent evil minded persons from plundering sufferers."

The only tranquil occupation was that of the "sentinels" who kept watch over
goods removed from the conflagration wherever such goods were deposited.

What
a spectacular sight a fire in Alexandria presented when one remembers
the elegant dress of the day; short clothes, elaborate jackets or vests,
ruffled linen, full skirted coats, perukes, queues braided and beribboned,
powdered heads in three-cornered hats, silken and white hose, buckled
shoes; and that fires generally occurred in winter upon the coldest
days and in the worst weather, often at night, and that these firemen
were the élite of the town, the serious, responsible merchants, doctors,
masters, ship captains and owners.

There was some reward now and then for their efforts. At the April meeting in 1777, the "Succeeding Clerk
is desired to warn the Company to meet next month at the Ball Room and
to Desire the Treasurer to purchase Ten Gallons of Spirits, and one
Loaf of Sugar Candles etc. The Clerk to have the Ball Room cleaned
and put in order." Alas, the members were either not warned or invited
for only six showed up. The next month was worse, again no warning
and only four came.

The clerk was ordered to warn again and provide what spirit, sugar and candles
may be necessary for the next meeting and "that the same be held in the
Town House." The clerk was reimbursed "one pound Two Shillings for
white washing and cleaning the Ball Room."

On February 22, 1779, a resolution was passed to fine the clerk refusing
or neglecting his duty forty-two shillings, and absent members three shillings.
There was a fine called the "Moreover Fine," which was increased from
five shillings to nine shillings, and the Company voted to dispose
of any sum not exceeding £5 "when less than 2/3 of the members are
met." Besides funds in cash, the Company had 1,000 pounds of tobacco
on hand. The following July the Company ordered the tobacco sold.

On
Monday, October 27, 1783, nine years after the founding of the Company,
the succeeding clerk is ordered to give notice that at the next meeting
a proposal will be made to dispose of the money in stock in the purchase
of an engine.

Two months later, undaunted by the recent unpleasantness, the treasurer was
requested to "Import from London on account of this Company a fire engine
value from seventy to eighty pounds sterling."

It took two years for the engine to arrive. Preparatory to its reception, officers
were appointed for its direction. Nine stalwart members were chosen, and
they were ordered to serve nine months. Six shillings each was collected
from the members to help make up the deficiency, and a committee was
appointed to wait upon the county court with a petition requesting ground sufficient
for building an enginehouse upon the courthouse lot. This was granted and
the enginehouse was built on Fairfax Street "adjoining the school House."
The members were called on for a dollar each for this purpose and
it was later necessary to borrow another dollar.

Two keys were ordered labeled "Sun Fire Company."

The April minutes in 1786 contain the invoice for the engine:

To a Fire Engine Imported from London with 2 dozen buckets Amt p. invoice
£ 72.14 Commission on shipping D^o--5% 3.12. 8 Insurance on £76 @
2-1/2pc 1.18 Freight from London 6.

6 ---------- £ 84.10. 8 Exchange 40 pc^1 33.16. 2 ---------- 118. 6.10 Freight
from Baltimore 1.

4 ---------- £119.10.10.

It was incorporated into the articles that the engine was to be worked for
two hours every Monday of the meeting, and anyone neglecting to attend
and work the engine was penalized nine pence.

Moreover William Herbert, Dennis Ramsay and Isaac Roberdeau were charged with
getting the engine to fires.

About this time (1788) the Virginia Assembly passed an act authorizing
the different towns in the state to elect fire companies.

In May 1789, Dr. William Brown was elected treasurer to succeed William
Hartshorne.

The first mention by the Sun of other fire companies in Alexandria
is in the minutes of February 28, 1791.

In July specific reference is made to the Friendship Fire Company and the
Relief Fire Company.

In May 1793, the Sun Company was dissatisfied with the English engine,
and they began correspondence with a Mr. Mason of Philadelphia with
the intention of selling the old engine and acquiring a new one.

Mason manufactured three engines. They contained 190, 170 and 160 gallons
of water, respectively, which they discharged in one minute and a half
and they were worked by twenty-four, twenty-two and eighteen or twenty
men, respectively, and varied in price accordingly.

The Sun Fire Company purchased the smallest engine for £125. It seems to
have arrived in April 1794. Later the old engine "with the suction
pipe" was thoroughly repaired by Mason and returned to the Sun Fire
Company.

By 1796 such confusion reigned at fires that the three companies associated
themselves together to make and sustain certain plans and rules for
the management of fires.

It was decided to have three directors or commanders, one chosen from
each company, only one of whom was to act at a time, who were to have
control of the engines, fire hooks, ladders and to be the judges of the
expediency of pulling down adjacent buildings. In order that these
gentlemen be more conspicuous (distinguished was the word) it was
decided to "elevate their voices above the ordinary clamour on such
occasions," each of them in action was ordered to carry in his hand
a "speaking trumpet, painted white, and not less than three feet long."

Each company was to keep such an affair in the enginehouse.

There were then chosen three subordinate directors who had immediate charge
of the engine under the commander, then four persons from each Company,
to be called regulators, who were to "be diligent in searching for
the most convenient source of water, in forming lanes for the supply
of the engines, and preventing the use of dirty puddle water."

Upon these gentlemen fell the unpleasant task of "noticing remisness
in the members and others and being obliged to give information to their
respective companies whenever such shameful instances occured to
their observation." Trustees were responsible for the removal of property,
and the entire company was obliged to wear "at times of fire" by
way of distinction, black caps with white fronts with letters thereon
designating their company.

Moreover these companies pledged themselves to "respect" the other
companies when their property was in danger from fire, "in preference
to persons who are members of neither."

Doctor Dick stated that he lost his fire bucket at the fire at William
Herbert's house, then occupied by Edmund Edmunds, and the treasurer
reimbursed the good Doctor eighteen shillings on October 24, 1796.

  Nevertheless," Strether pursued, "he won't go.  Not, at least, so long as I'm here."

"But you can't," his companion suggested, "stay here always.  I wish you could."

"By no means.  Still, I want to see him a little further.  He's not in the least the case I
supposed, he's quite another case.  And it's as such that he interests me."  It was almost
as if for his own intelligence that, deliberate and lucid, our friend thus expressed the matter.
"I don't want to give him up."

Miss Gostrey but desired to help his lucidity.  She had however to be light and tactful.  "Up,
you mean--a--to his mother?"

"Well, I'm not thinking of his mother now.  I'm thinking of the plan of which I was the mouthpiece,
which, as soon as we met, I put before him as persuasively as I knew how, and which was drawn
up, as it were, in complete ignorance of all that, in this last long period, has been happening
to him.  It took no account whatever of the impression I was here on the spot immediately to
begin to receive from him--impressions of which I feel sure I'm far from having had the last."

Miss Gostrey had a smile of the most genial criticism.  "So your idea is--more or less--to
stay out of curiosity?"

"Call it what you like! I don't care what it's called--"

"So long as you do stay?  Certainly not then.  I call it, all the same, immense fun," Maria
Gostrey declared; "and to see you work it out will be one of the sensations of my life.  It
IS clear you can toddle alone!"

He received this tribute without elation.  "I shan't be alone when the Pococks have come."

Her eyebrows went up.  "The Pococks are coming?"

"That, I mean, is what will happen--and happen as quickly as possible--in consequence of Chad's
cable.  They'll simply embark. Sarah will come to speak for her mother--with an effect different
from MY muddle."

Miss Gostrey more gravely wondered.  "SHE then will take him back?"

"Very possibly--and we shall see.  She must at any rate have the chance, and she may be trusted
to do all she can."

"And do you WANT that?"

"Of course," said Strether, "I want it.  I want to play fair."

But she had lost for a moment the thread.  "If it devolves on the Pococks why do you stay?"

"Just to see that I DO play fair--and a little also, no doubt, that they do."  Strether was
luminous as he had never been.  "I came out to find myself in presence of new facts--facts
that have kept striking me as less and less met by our old reasons.  The matter's perfectly
simple.  New reasons--reasons as new as the facts themselves--are wanted; and of this our friends
at Woollett--Chad's and mine--were at the earliest moment definitely notified.  If any are
producible Mrs. Pocock will produce them; she'll bring over the whole collection. They'll be,"
he added with a pensive smile "a part of the 'fun' you speak of."

She was quite in the current now and floating by his side.  "It's Mamie--so far as I've had
it from you--who'll be their great card." And then as his contemplative silence wasn't a denial
she significantly added: "I think I'm sorry for her."

"I think I am!"--and Strether sprang up, moving about a little as her eyes followed him.  "But
it can't be helped."

"You mean her coming out can't be?"

He explained after another turn what he meant.  "The only way for her not to come is for me
to go home--as I believe that on the spot I could prevent it.  But the difficulty as to that
is that if I do go home--"

"I see, I see"--she had easily understood.  "Mr. Newsome will do the same, and that's not"--she
laughed out now--"to be thought of."

Strether had no laugh; he had only a quiet comparatively placid look that might have shown
him as proof against ridicule.  "Strange, isn't it?"

They had, in the matter that so much interested them, come so far as this without sounding
another name--to which however their present momentary silence was full of a conscious reference.
Strether's question was a sufficient implication of the weight it had gained with him during
the absence of his hostess; and just for that reason a single gesture from her could pass for
him as a vivid answer.  Yet he was answered still better when she said in a moment: "Will Mr.
Newsome introduce his sister--?"

"To Madame de Vionnet?"  Strether spoke the name at last.  "I shall be greatly surprised if
he doesn't."

She seemed to gaze at the possibility.  "You mean you've thought of it and you're prepared."

"I've thought of it and I'm prepared."

It was to her visitor now that she applied her consideration.  "Bon! You ARE magnificent!"

"Well," he answered after a pause and a little wearily, but still standing there before her--"well,
that's what, just once in all my dull days, I think I shall like to have been!"

Two days later he had news from Chad of a communication from Woollett in response to their
determinant telegram, this missive being addressed to Chad himself and announcing the immediate
departure for France of Sarah and Jim and Mamie.  Strether had meanwhile on his own side cabled;
he had but delayed that act till after his visit to Miss Gostrey, an interview by which, as
so often before, he felt his sense of things cleared up and settled.  His message to Mrs. Newsome,
in answer to her own, had consisted of the words: "Judge best to take another month, but with
full appreciation of all re-enforcements." Select round tomatoes of equal size; peel and scoop out the seeds
from the stem end. Place the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill with celery that
has been chopped fine and mixed with mayonnaise.

Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or plate. Garnish the dish further by placing
the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley on top of each tomato. Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits,
or salted wafers. Be generous with the filling. Use plenty of the mayonnaise and celery and
fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs (well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant)
one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted).

Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly.

Set in kettle of boiling water and stir till it thickens, (about
four minutes), when ready to use it add two tablespoons cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes,
one small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one
tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt.

Shred all the salad finely. Mix well with the dressing and put a little
on half the bread and butter.

Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly.

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard, one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch
of salt, a little pepper. One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one
tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar
and cayenne, and four eggs. Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers. Garnish
dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt
the butter with it, pour this on the eggs well beaten, add the salt and
then the vinegar, this last slowly, and stir all the time. Then cook
in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when cold add the
mustard.--Prepared mustard is made as follows: two tablespoons mustard,
one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt, enough boiling water to
mix.

Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also good for chicken. Put the eggs
in boiling water.

PRESERVING EGGS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

(Which keeps them from June to June.)

Half a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of water added by degrees,
two and one half gallons the first day, the rest next, then add one
half gallon coarse salt, stir two or three times a day for three
days, after this drop in four eggs gently.

To test the strength of the lime-water drop in an egg that you know to be fresh,
and if it floats the lime is too strong, add another gallon or more
of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.

CURÉE EGGS.

MISS MITCHELL.

Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn
butter not too thick, flavor with curée powder.

Place your eggs on a side dish, pour your curée round
and finish with parsley: makes a pretty lunch dish.

POACHED EGGS.

Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste. After
poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely chopped
parsley over them.

Garnish the dish with parsley.

ANCHOVY EGGS.

MADAME J. T.

Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes. Let
boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks and leave the whites
in cold water not to discolor.

Pound three anchovies in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small
pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne, one half teaspoon lemon juice
and the yolks of the eggs.

When pounded smooth put back into the eggs. Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies.

STUFFED EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons
minced ham.

Boil the eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells, cut lengthwise,
take out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter melted, the
minced ham and the parsley.

Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs. Put the two halves together.
Serve on shallow dish with the following white sauce: one tablespoon each
of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon pepper. Melt the butter
add the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper and salt.

BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk,
and a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls flour in
a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and pepper
to taste.

Bake twenty minutes.

CHEESE OMELET.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three
tablespoons of fresh cream.

OMELET.

MISS M'GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper
and salt.

Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt, and
chopped parsley and the flour dissolved in a little milk, then add
the whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for three
minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch of salt:
beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add to the above,
turn into a frying pan, until the mixture sets and then put in the
oven until a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES.

CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful of flour, one half saltspoonful of salt, a
pinch of cayenne pepper and butter the size of an egg. Add enough
cold water to enable you to roll thin.

Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven.

CHEESE SCALLOP.

MISS FRASER.

Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat the
yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoon of butter, and half a pound
of grated cheese.

Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate brown.

Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top and
return to the oven for a few minutes.

THE CHAFING DISH.

A Relish and a Savory.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS GRACE M'MILLAN.

Allow for each person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese,
one half teaspoonful of butter, one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains
of cayenne.

Cook like custard until smooth. Spread on toast and serve at once.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best American cheese, (Canadian will do), the milder
the better, as melting brings out strength. To make five rarebits take
one pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan; add ale (old is best)
enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine glassful
to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted.

Have ready a slice of toast for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a
slice on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover
it. Serve at once.

GOLDEN BUCK

A "Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put carefully on top of rarebit.

LOBSTER
À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard boiled),
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons
of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks of
the eggs with a silver spoon and gradually add half the cream. Place
the butter in a granite ware saucepan, add the flour, let it cook slowly
for one minute and then pour in the balance of the cream and stir
until the liquid thickens.

Add the first
mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of the eggs sliced, season
with cayenne pepper, and salt, add the wine and serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth, add one
cup of cream, let it heat through, then add one can of lobster. Pepper
and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine, if desired;
serve at once on squares of toast.

Canned chicken or salmon can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of
horse radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top.

Serve in small
tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around them and with oyster
biscuits.

CRUSTINE.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil the liver of two chickens, (or turkey will do), pound them to
a paste with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of
anchovy and a little cayenne.

Serve on hot toast. Small anchovies whole, laid on top are an improvement.

PIES.

"Who
dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."--LONGFELLOW.

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good rim
on the side and put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill
up with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of sugar
beaten together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little
salt and add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON
PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice
of two lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on the stove
to boil and add at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir smooth, then
add two tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water,
and one tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two-thirds of a cup of
water for ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one cup
sugar, the juice of a lemon and butter half the size of an egg, let
boil a few minutes.

Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch and
yolk of one egg in half cup milk stir in the mixture letting it boil
until thick. Beat whites of two eggs into stiff froth for frosting.

LEMON
PIE.

MRS. STRANG.

Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight
tablespoonfuls white sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate
the rind of one, stir together the yolks of three eggs and white of
one with the sugar, butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup
of sweet cream or milk, beat all for a minute or two; have ready a
plate lined with paste, into which pour the mixture which will be
sufficient for two pies of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done. Meanwhile beat the remaining whites to
a stiff froth and stir in four spoonfuls of white sugar. Take the pies
from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each and return them
quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown. Take care that the oven
be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly and cause the pie to fall when
taken out.

PASTRY.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking
powder, one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

MOCK CHERRY PIE.

MRS. W.
W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one half
cup of cold water, one teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful corn-starch,
two-thirds cup sugar, a little salt.

This makes one pie.

MINCE MEAT.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one pound
sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants, two nutmegs, a large
teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt, one half pound of
candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of
pie plant, bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon
sugar over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE.

One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples,
four tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon cornstarch, one cup of boiling
water, one cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.

SOUR CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar,
scant tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar,
and flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two
crusts.

PUMPKIN PIE.

MISS BEEMER.

PASTE.

PUDDINGS.

"The proof of the pudding lies in the eating."

ALMOND PUDDING

MRS. STOCKING.

One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar,
one heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk,
sugar, and cornstarch in double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when
boiling; pour into pudding dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and
brown in oven, to be served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the following batter
on top: one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar and butter, two tablespoonfuls
each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, bake forty
five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls
of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of white sugar and one third
of a cup of butter. Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water
to make a thick custard; stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs,
bring to a boil. Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the custard over
them. Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three
eggs well beaten with sugar. To be eaten cold.

BREAD PUDDING.

MRS.
ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer
of bread, one layer of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of
butter. Continue until bowl is full, put a plate on top and steam
for at least two hours, more will do no harm. Turn out a few minutes
before wanted to let the juice penetrate the bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE
PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar
and a tablespoon of butter, add two eggs, and after beating the mixture
until light, add a cupful of milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted
flour and three teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve
into the mixture already made, beat quickly and pour the batter into
one large pudding dish or two small ones. Sprinkle with sugar, bake
in a moderate oven for forty minutes or thirty if there be two. Serve
hot with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.--Beat two eggs
very light, and add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter,
one small tablespoon of cornstarch, beat all together, then add one
cup of boiling water, cook five minutes, boiling all the while. Cook
a little longer if set in a basin of hot water, take from the fire,
and add juice of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

One quart of milk scalded,
two eggs well beaten, add gradually one cup sugar. With the eggs and
sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping tablespoons
grated chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir into the milk until
a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE
PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread
crumbs, one tea cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of
chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Let the milk come
to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when almost cool, beat the yolks
of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the bread and milk. Bake
one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the whites of three eggs
and put meringues.

CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee
cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over a slow fire and
burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of milk in a saucepan
and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil, but do not stir
it in case the milk should crack. Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch
with a little cold milk, and when the milk and sugar boil stir the
starch in. Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream.

CARAMEL
PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

One pint of milk, one pound of brown
sugar, one coffee cup of chopped walnuts, two heaping tablespoons
of cornstarch, pinch of salt. Put the milk in a double boiler, when
boiling put in cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk; let it
cook a few minutes, put in the sugar which has been previously burnt
a little, then add the nuts, stir a few minutes, flavor with vanilla,
put into a mould, and eat with whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS
LAMPSON.

Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk,
one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of two eggs and whites of four,
one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little
nutmeg. Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs. When nearly
cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut. Bake
three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold, with
white sugar sifted over it.

DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE.

MRS.
STOCKING.

FRIED CREAM.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Everyone should
try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream could
be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish for
a dinner course or for lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it
can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs. The moment the egg touches
the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding which softens to a
creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients, one pint of milk, five
ounces of sugar (little more than half a cupful,) butter the size
of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn
starch, and one tablespoonful of flour, (a generous half cupful altogether),
stick of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla.
Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil,
stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the
fire for fully two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take
it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return
it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove
the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered
platter until one third of an inch high. When cold and stiff cut the
pudding into parallelograms, about three inches long and two inches
wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker crumbs then in
eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened) then again in cracker-crumbs.
Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire basket should be used if convenient)
and when of fine color, take them out and place them in the oven for
four or five minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pulverized
sugar and serve immediately.

FEATHER PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One
tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one
cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour,
one and one half teaspoons flavoring. Steam one hour. Eat with sauce.

FIG
PUDDING.

MRS. THOM.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine,
two cups bread-crumbs, one cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one
egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three
hours.

GELATINE PUDDING (Pink.)

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce
pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove where it
will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four eggs, beaten with
four tablespoons sugar, stir well, let it just come to the boil, then
add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar and a dessert
spoon vanilla. Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and
garnish with whipped cream. This is a very pretty dish.

GRAHAM PUDDING.
 He saw himself, under her direction, recommitted to Woollett as juvenile
offenders are committed to reformatories.  It wasn't of course that Woollett was really a place
of discipline; but he knew in advance that Sarah's salon at the hotel would be.  His danger,
at any rate, in such moods of alarm, was some concession, on this ground, that would involve
a sharp rupture with the actual; therefore if he waited to take leave of that actual he might
wholly miss his chance.  It was represented with supreme vividness by Madame de Vionnet, and
that is why, in a word, he waited no longer.  He had seen in a flash that he must anticipate
Mrs. Pocock.  He was accordingly much disappointed on now learning from the portress that the
lady of his quest was not in Paris.  She had gone for some days to the country.  There was
nothing in this accident but what was natural; yet it produced for poor Strether a drop of
all confidence.  It was suddenly as if he should never see her again, and as if moreover he
had brought it on himself by not having been quite kind to her.

It was the advantage of his having let his fancy lose itself for a little in the gloom that,
as by reaction, the prospect began really to brighten from the moment the deputation from Woollett
alighted on the platform of the station.  They had come straight from Havre, having sailed
from New York to that port, and having also, thanks to a happy voyage, made land with a promptitude
that left Chad Newsome, who had meant to meet them at the dock, belated.  He had received their
telegram, with the announcement of their immediate further advance, just as he was taking the
train for Havre, so that nothing had remained for him but to await them in Paris.  He hastily
picked up Strether, at the hotel, for this purpose, and he even, with easy pleasantry, suggested
the attendance of Waymarsh as well--Waymarsh, at the moment his cab rattled up, being engaged,
under Strether's contemplative range, in a grave perambulation of the familiar court.  Waymarsh
had learned from his companion, who had already had a note, delivered by hand, from Chad, that
the Pococks were due, and had ambiguously, though, as always, impressively, glowered at him
over the circumstance; carrying himself in a manner in which Strether was now expert enough
to recognise his uncertainty, in the premises, as to the best tone.  The only tone he aimed
at with confidence was a full tone--which was necessarily difficult in the absence of a full
knowledge.  The Pococks were a quantity as yet unmeasured, and, as he had practically brought
them over, so this witness had to that extent exposed himself.  He wanted to feel right about
it, but could only, at the best, for the time, feel vague. "I shall look to you, you know,
immensely," our friend had said, "to help me with them," and he had been quite conscious of
the effect of the remark, and of others of the same sort, on his comrade's sombre sensibility.
He had insisted on the fact that Waymarsh would quite like Mrs. Pocock--one could be certain
he would: he would be with her about everything, and she would also be with HIM, and Miss Barrace's
nose, in short, would find itself out of joint.

Strether had woven this web of cheerfulness while they waited in the court for Chad; he had
sat smoking cigarettes to keep himself quiet while, caged and leonine, his fellow traveller
paced and turned before him.  Chad Newsome was doubtless to be struck, when he arrived, with
the sharpness of their opposition at this particular hour; he was to remember, as a part of
it, how Waymarsh came with him and with Strether to the street and stood there with a face
half-wistful and half-rueful. They talked of him, the two others, as they drove, and Strether
put Chad in possession of much of his own strained sense of things.  He had already, a few
days before, named to him the wire he was convinced their friend had pulled--a confidence that
had made on the young man's part quite hugely for curiosity and diversion.  The action of the
matter, moreover, Strether could see, was to penetrate; he saw that is, how Chad judged a system
of influence in which Waymarsh had served as a determinant--an impression just now quickened
again; with the whole bearing of such a fact on the youth's view of his relatives.  As it came
up between them that they might now take their friend for a feature of the control of these
latter now sought to be exerted from Woollett, Strether felt indeed how it would be stamped
all over him, half an hour later for Sarah Pocock's eyes, that he was as much on Chad's "side"
as Waymarsh had probably described him.  He was letting himself at present, go; there was no
denying it; it might be desperation, it might be confidence; he should offer himself to the
arriving travellers bristling with all the lucidity he had cultivated.

He repeated to Chad what he had been saying in the court to Waymarsh; how there was no doubt
whatever that his sister would find the latter a kindred spirit, no doubt of the alliance,
based on an exchange of views, that the pair would successfully strike up.  They would become
as thick as thieves--which moreover was but a development of what Strether remembered to have
said in one of his first discussions with his mate, struck as he had then already been with
the elements of affinity between that personage and Mrs. Newsome herself.  "I told him, one
day, when he had questioned me on your mother, that she was a person who, when he should know
her, would rouse in him, I was sure, a special enthusiasm; and that hangs together with the
conviction we now feel--this certitude that Mrs. Pocock will take him into her boat.  For it's
your mother's own boat that she's pulling."

"Ah," said Chad, "Mother's worth fifty of Sally!"

"A thousand; but when you presently meet her, all the same you'll be meeting your mother's
representative--just as I shall.  I feel like the outgoing ambassador," said Strether, "doing
honour to his appointed successor." "Judy (she's my wife) she tell me she heah Miss Anne when she axed
ole missis mout she wear mo'nin' fur 'im. I don' know how dat is; but when we buried 'im nex' day,
she wuz de one whar walked arfter de coffin, holdin' ole marster, an'
ole missis she walked next to 'em."

"Well, we buried Marse Chan dyar in de ole grabeyard, wid de fleg
wrapped roun' 'im, an' he face lookin' like it did dat mawnin' down
in de low groun's, wid de new sun shinin' on it so peaceful.

Dat warn' so mighty long, 'cause ole marster he died dat fall, when dey wuz fallerin' fur wheat--I had jes' married
Judy den--an' ole missis she warn' long behine him.

We buried her by him next summer.

Miss Anne she went in de hospitals toreckly arfter ole missis died; an' jes' fo' Richmond fell she come
home sick wid de fever. Yo' nuvver would 'a' knowed her fur de same ole Miss Anne. She wuz light
ez a piece o' peth, an' so white, 'cep' her eyes an' her sorrel hyar, an' she kep' on gittin' whiter an'
weaker. Judy she sut'n'y did nuss her faithful. But she nuvver got no betterment! De fever
an' Marse Chan's bein' kilt hed done strain her, an' she died jes' 'fo' de folks wuz sot free.

"So
we buried Miss Anne right by Marse Chan, in a place whar ole missis
hed tole us to leave, an' dey's bofe on 'em sleep side by side over
in de ole grabeyard at home.

"An' will yo' please tell me, marster?

Dey tells me dat de Bible sey dyar won' be marryin' nor givin' in marriage
in heaven, but I don' b'lieve it signifies dat--does yo'?"

I gave him the comfort of my earnest belief in some other interpretation,
together with several spare "eighteen-pences," as he called them, for
which he seemed humbly grateful. And as I rode away I heard him calling
across the fence to his wife, who was standing in the door of a small
whitewashed cabin, near which we had been standing for some time:

"Judy,
have Marse Chan's dawg got home?"

MR. BIXBY'S CHRISTMAS VISITOR.

BY CHARLES S. GAGE.

Appleton's Journal, December 30, 1871.

At the head of the first flight of stairs, and on opposite sides of
the landing, were the respective rooms of Mr. Bixby and Mr. Bangs.
The house in which they lived stood in a quiet and retired street on
the lower and western side of New York, a locality which was once
inhabited by fashionable families, afterward by old-fashioned families,
and at the time of our story by the keepers of boarding-houses for
single men.

 

Mr. Henry Bixby and Mr. Alfred Bangs were single men--Mr. Bangs, the
wine-merchant, because he liked wine and song so well that he never
had leisure to think of women, because he was fat, because he was
red in the face, and, if more reasons are necessary, because his fingers
were chubby and short.

For twenty years, day by day, Mr. Bangs had been absorbed in business.
For twenty years, night after night, it had been his custom to entertain
his friends at his apartment in not a very quiet way.

He was so happy, and bulbous, and jolly, that he had never thought of marriage.
Yet he might easily have been mistaken by the casual observer for a family
man. He wore a white vest when it wasn't too cold; his linen was painfully
plain. There was not a sign of jewelry about him. He wore low shoes,
which he tied with a ribbon. This was Mr. Bangs.

Not quite so old in years as the opposite lodger was Mr. Bixby, known
to his few friends as a genial philosopher and poet, to the public
as the literary critic of one of the great daily papers.

He might have been thirty-five years of age, but, as he had lived more
for others than for himself, as he had made a study and not a pleasure
of life, his gray eyes and the other features of his face suggested
to whoever met him a longer past. There was something about him that caused
men to wonder, not what he was, but what he had been.

For ten years Mr. Bangs and Mr. Bixby had been inmates of the house together.
Mr. Bangs had been there longer.

The present landlady had received as a legacy from her predecessor, who did
not care to take him away, Mr. Bangs. As she said, she made a present
of Bangs.

Long as they had known each other, the two lodgers were only acquaintances.

Sometimes, on a Sunday afternoon, they would walk out in company, stroll down
to the Battery, and there smoke their cigars and watch the ships, but
beyond this point of sociability, which neither enjoyed, there was
nothing more.

Never had Bixby read Bangs any poem he had made, nor did ever Bangs
invite Bixby to meet his convivial friends of an evening to play whist
or to partake of his mulled ale. In fact, Mr. Bixby had been often
and with great enthusiasm voted an unsocial fellow by the cronies
of Mr. Bangs, but he rose somewhat in their estimation when they were
informed that he had consented to exchange rooms with their host.

"He isn't such a grouty fellow, after all," said Bangs. "I told him that we were too near the street,
and that some one had been complaining to the landlady of our singing. He didn't even stop to think,
but agreed to do it at once. He thought the light would be better here.
Now, fellows, I call that doing the fair thing."

And the speech of Mr. Bangs was applauded.

It was the morning of the day before Christmas that the change was effected.
In the closet where had been the bottles, the decanters, glasses,
and pickle-jars of the late occupant, Mr. Bixby had arranged shelves,
and filled them with his books.

Over the mantel, from which Mr. Bangs had taken away a colored print of a bull-dog in an overcoat,
Mr. Bixby hung a fine engraving of the Madonna, and on the mantel itself he had placed his clock. It
was a small French clock under a crystal, so that its rapidly-swinging pendulum could be easily seen.
All bachelors, however negligent of their surroundings, have some one hobby among articles of furniture.
It may be an easy-chair, or a book-case, or a chandelier--there is one thing that must be the best
of its kind. There could be no doubt, from the care with which Mr. Bixby placed his clock in its
position, and from time to time compared it with his watch, that this was his hobby. It had the three requisites
which he demanded in a clock.

It kept correct time without failing, its pendulum swung rapidly, and was plainly visible. Time
past was the happiness of Mr. Bixby, and this clock told him continually
that all was being done that could be done to induce the hours of every
day to go over to the majority.

He depended upon this clock.

He was surer of its mechanism than of that of his own heart.

What with hanging his pictures and arranging his furniture, and with many other
little things which had to be done, Mr. Bixby was busily employed
all day. But the task was not an unpleasant one. His heart was in the work,
for there was hardly an object in the room not nearly associated
with some event in his past life.

After carefully brushing the dust from an old writing-desk, which had
evidently once belonged to a lady, he placed it upon the rug in front of
the fire. Only on Christmas-eves was this desk opened.

"It is curious," thought Mr. Bixby, "that I should have moved this day, of
all days in the year!"

Often in his work he thought of stopping to take from the desk an old packet of
letters, and reading them once more. But it was not yet time, and,
moreover, he was continually interrupted.

First, there came
some one to his door with "Two dozen Congress-water for Mr. Bangs;" then
one with "Mr. Bangs's boots," and another to tell Mr. Bangs that
"the pup was big enough to take away."

Finally, came
Bangs himself, to complain of like interruptions, and to bid him good-by.

"Here is some manuscript a boy left for you.

You will have to attend both doors now. I am off to spend Christmas. We are going to have a Tom-and-Jerry
party in Jersey. You know--

"'The Tom-and-Jerry days have come, the happiest in the year!'

"Good rendering, eh? That isn't all:

"'I only wish to live till the juleps come again!'"

And Mr. Bangs laughed uproariously, even after he had said, "Good-by," and
shut the door behind him.

"What a personification of Bacchus!" thought Mr. Bixby--

"'Ever laughing,
ever young.'

"He will be young as long as he lives, but I am afraid
that won't be long.

If ever there was a man in immediate danger of apoplexy, Bangs is
that man."

It was after dinner when Mr. Bixby lighted his drop-light and sat down before the
fire. He pushed an ottoman in front of him, on which to rest his feet, which he
had comfortably encased in his slippers. But the shadows in his
new room did not please him. He could hardly see the clock on the
mantel. The Madonna above was completely in the shade.

So he lighted the chandelier above and sat down again, hoping that no
friend, either of his own or of Mr. Bangs, would interrupt him. The
desk was open at his feet.

The package of letters lay near him on the table. He placed his hand upon them,
but let it rest there. The hour had not quite arrived when he would
read them. He fell again into the reveries of the day.

He lingered over the thoughts of his better life ere he opened the
packet which told of its end.

For the last ten years he had labored without ambition, and had been successful.
His name was well known as a journalist, and his salary was ample. Before
that time he had striven ambitiously, but fruitlessly, patiently,
but as in a quicksand, until, on a day, he had none to strive for
but himself, and then success had come.

Since noon, seven hours
and twenty-nine minutes, said the clock before him. His anniversary was
near. Mr. Bixby drew the letters near him, and untied the package. Just
then there came a knock at his door, and, before he had determined
whether or not he should say, "Come in," the door opened, and an elderly
gentleman stepped into the apartment.

Quietly he came in. There was no sound attending his entrance except
the knock. Mr. Bixby, looking up, saw a man of more than ordinary height,
with countenance rigid and puritanical in expression, as though the
mind which had formed it was one influenced more by justice than mercy.

His eyes were concealed by a pair of colored spectacles, but these,
as they caught and reflected the light, were brighter and more startling
than any eyes could have been.

He was dressed in a long surtout, which he wore closely buttoned, high
dickey, and high black-silk stock, which covered his throat to his
chin.

His iron-gray
hair was brushed somewhat pompously backward over his forehead, and
his whole effect was that of a gentleman of the generation which wore
bell-crowned hats and carried enormous canes with tassels.

But what attracted
Mr. Bixby's particular attention were the wrinkles of his face. These
were in all places where wrinkles should not be.

One ran straight through the centre of his forehead,
continuing the line of the nose upward to the hair.

Two others, starting from the bridge of the nose, ran diagonally
down to the nostrils.

He was close-shaven, and his lips were straight and thin. These peculiarities
of his visitor Mr. Bixby had barely time to mark when the gentleman
said:

"Ah, Mr. Bangs, I am glad to find you in!"

Mr. Bixby never in his life more desired to be alone, and yet there
was something in this old man which so attracted him that he could
not correct his mistake.

He felt a sudden fascination and desire to know more of him. Bangs was away and could not be
seen. The gentleman could not be very well acquainted with Bangs,
very probably never had seen him, or he would not have made such
an error.

But nothing but the influence which seemed to proceed from his visitor
could have induced Mr. Bixby to answer as he did.

"Thank you, sir. Pray, take this chair."

As he said this, he arose and wheeled an easy-chair to the other side of
the table.

The elderly gentleman sat down.

"You have a very cheerful apartment here, Mr. Bangs."

"Yes. I always like to be comfortable."

"Of course," said the elderly gentleman.

"Will you remove your overcoat, sir?" asked Mr. Bixby, and immediately
repented it.

"Oh, no, I shall stop but a moment."

There was an interval of silence. A block of coal broke open in the
grate and fell apart. A jet of gas burst forth and burned, then sputtered
and went out.

Mr. Bixby wondered on what business he had come, and why he did not
open the subject at once, if he was only intending to stop a moment.

"It
is very disagreeable weather out," said the man with the pompous
forelock, interrupting his reflections.

"Snowing?" asked Bixby.

"No--sleet."

"Very unpleasant to have far to go such a night," suggested Bixby,
who could think of nothing better to say.

"Not at all," responded the old gentleman, authoritatively.

Bixby was silent again.

The old gentleman, leaning with his elbow on the table, began again.

"You like to live well, Mr. Bangs?"

"I try to," answered Mr. Bixby.

"Yes."

"This must be some relative of Bangs come to deliver him a lecture on his
course of life. Why don't he broach his advice at once?" thought Mr.
Bixby.

The visitor here pulled a glove from his right hand, ran his fingers
through his hair, and then, in a more business-like tone, spoke again:

"Although
a stranger to you personally, Mr. Bangs, I have always taken a great
interest in your family.

Mr.
Bangs, I knew your father."

"Indeed! I never heard him speak--"

"No, I dare say; it was near the end of his life.

I was near by, and rendered him some assistance, when he died suddenly
of apoplexy.

He was not so much of a man as your grandfather."

"Was he not?" asked Mr. Bixby, musingly.

He was thinking how old the grandfather of his friend Bangs must
have been.

"No," continued the elderly gentleman; "but even his judgment I
never considered equal to that of your great-grandfather."

"Here
is, indeed, a friend--a friend of the family. Why is Mr. Bangs away?"
thought Mr. Bixby, and he bent his head a little, and looked under
the drop-light, to get a view of his visitor. He saw only the reflection
on his spectacles, and drew back suddenly, for fear of being detected.

"You
like a good song, I have heard, Mr. Bangs," came from the other side
of the table. "Have you any favorite?"

Mr. Bixby did not understand
this at all. The question puzzled him. Should he as Bangs fall in
the estimation of some relative if he admitted the fact? Or did his
visitor intend to sing? However, he felt compelled to be frank, so
he said:

"Oh, yes; I like a good song. Some of the Scotch ballads
please me most. There is 'The Land o' the Leal.'"

"A very fine song,
sir. A very fine song. It is a credit to any man to like that song."

The
old gentleman was excited. Mr. Bixby was just congratulating himself
on having given Bangs a lift, when his thoughts were turned into an
altogether new channel by the following remark:

"It was my impression,
however, that your taste ran rather in the way of drinking-songs.
I should have thought now you would have said, 'The Coal-Black Wine.'"

There
was something in the tone with which this was uttered that made Mr.
Bixby shudder. It ran through his mind that this man was some enemy
of Bangs--that he was dangerous. Startled by this sudden suspicion,
tremblingly he again peered under the shade. The wrinkle in the line
of the frontal suture was more deeply indented. The light on the spectacles
was brighter than ever.

"Mr. Bangs, I called on your opposite neighbor,
Mr. Bixby, to-night. I knocked on the door, but he was away."

"Yes,"
said Mr. Bixby, somewhat confused. He wished that Bangs had stayed
at home, and determined to end the interview as soon as possible.

"Yes.
I am sorry. I had a positive appointment with him. I am a great friend
of his."

"Does he know you?"

"Oh, no; we have never met personally
that he remembers. I am an old friend of the family.  This was then the spirit in which he hovered, and with the easier
throb in it much indebted furthermore to the impression of high and established adequacy as
a pretty girl promptly produced in him by Mamie.  He had wondered vaguely--turning over many
things in the fidget of his thoughts--if Mamie WERE as pretty as Woollett published her; as
to which issue seeing her now again was to be so swept away by Woollett's opinion that this
consequence really let loose for the imagination an avalanche of others.  There were positively
five minutes in which the last word seemed of necessity to abide with a Woollett represented
by a Mamie.  This was the sort of truth the place itself would feel; it would send her forth
in confidence; it would point to her with triumph; it would take its stand on her with assurance;
it would be conscious of no requirements she didn't meet, of no question she couldn't answer. 

PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL.

150

February 2, 1916.

CHARIVARIA.

According to the Correspondent of The Daily Mail who described the festivities
at Nish, the King of BULGARIA "has a curious duck-like waddle." This is believed
to be the result of his effort to do the Goose-Step while avoiding
the Turkey-Trot.

***

Owing to the extraction of benzol and toluol from gas for the purpose of making
high-explosives it is stated that consumers may have to put up with some
decrease in illuminating power. It is expected, in view of the good
object involved, that the announcement will be received in a spirit
of toluoleration.

***

We cannot agree with the actor who complains that his manager forbids
him to wear his armlet on the stage.

The sympathies of the audience might be entirely deranged by the discovery
that the elderly villain was an attested patriot while the young and
beautiful hero was either ineligible or a slacker.

***

Describing the depressed condition of the laundry trade a witness
at the Clerkenwell County Court said, "We are eight million double
collars short every week."

It is shrewdly conjectured that they are in the neighbourhood of
the Front.

***

Nothing in the course of his Balkan pilgrimage is reported to have pleased
the KAISER so much as a steamer-trip on the Danube. It was looking so
sympathetically blue.

***

The Government is going to close Museums and Picture-galleries to
the public.

No one shall accuse us of being Apostles of Culture.

***

It is said that the Australian and New Zealand soldiers now in London
are very fond of visiting the British Museum, and take a particular interest
in the Egyptian antiquities. But it is not true that they now refer
to England as "The Mummy Country."

***

Austrians and Hungarians are said to be quarrelling as to whether the occupied
Serbian territory should eventually belong to the Monarchy or the Kingdom,
and the jurists on either side are ransacking the history of the past for
arguments to support their respective cases. Here we have another instance
of the fondness of learned men for disputing about purely academic
questions.

Serbia will belong to the Serbians.

***

An American gentleman, who started out to visit his wife when she was
staying with her mother and failed to find her after three days'
search, excuses himself on the ground that he had forgotten her maiden
name. He puts it down to absence of mind; and his mother-in-law is
inclined to agree with him.

***

Soap is the latest article to be placed on the list of absolute contraband;
and it is now more certain than ever that the Germans will not come
out of the War with clean hands.

***

In view of the impending paper-famine a widely-circulated journal
announces its readiness to receive back from the public any parcels of
old copies marked "waste paper." In the opinion of its trade-rivals
the inscription is superfluous.

***

A suggestion has been made by a Registrar in Bankruptcy that the Tercentenary
of SHAKSPEARE'S death should be celebrated by the performance in every
large town of one of the Bard's plays; and some regret has been expressed
that anybody should take advantage of a national celebration to boom
his own business.

***

"'How many of us realise that, were it not for America, the War to-day in
Europe, as fought, could not even exist?'" is the question put, according to a New
York correspondent, "by Mr. Gutzon Borglum, the great American
sculptor." Still the War has its compensations. But for its existence
we might never have heard of Mr. GUTZON BORGLUM, the great American
sculptor.

***

A correspondent, describing the recent food riots in Berlin, says that
they were chiefly due to "women who were fed up with the difficulty
of providing meals for their families."

***

The following notice was found affixed to a building somewhere near the
Front: "SIR OFFICERS,--Ask the bathroom's key to the office. The bathroom
shall be wash by the servant after bath.

Sir Officer without servant shall not have the key." It sounds rather abrupt.

***

Owing
to the Government demand that nothing in the way of unnecessary expenditure
should be allowed, it is expected that all paid lecturers on War
Economy and National Thrift will be given a week's notice.

***

Opposing a suggestion of the Wandsworth Borough Council to discontinue
the issue of fiction from the free libraries, a member of the Women's
Freedom League said that a novel was to a woman what a pipe was to
a man.

Well, not quite, perhaps. We never saw a man begin a pipe at the wrong
end.

* * * * *

* * * * *

From an article by Mr. AUSTIN HARRISON in The Sunday Pictorial:--

"A few strange gentlemen attitudinise in Westminster on principle,
but these men would cut capers of principle in any case, like Mr.
Snodgrass when he went skating."

Or Mr. Winkle when he wrote verses.

* * * * *

"In the Continental boat-trains the warning, 'Licht linauslehnen,' has not been removed from the windows....
Occasionally you see that 'Nicht linauslehnen' has been indignantly pasted over."--Provincial Paper.

The latter is certainly a little more German than the other.

* * * * *

After a description of the new lighting order:--

"The regulations
will impose a great deal of work on the police, and it is the duty
of the public to make it as light as possible."--Hampshire Observer.

Lux, in fact, a non lucendo.

* * * * *

A LONELY LIFE.

"Nothing but margarine has entered my door since the War began."--Dr. C. W.
SALEEBY in "Daily Chronicle."

* * * * *

THE WATCH DOGS.

XXXIV.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--We're having a great time with our new arrival,
one of those confounded civilians, who are only let into the business
because the business, in these modern and highly complicated days,
cannot be carried on without them.

He's
a jolly old Lieutenant of about fifty years; he has a concentrated
experience of the world but doesn't remember having been mixed up in a
big European war before. At first I kept on telling him that business is one
thing and war is another, but he wouldn't see it and persisted in
doing and saying and thinking things which were bound to land us in
a national disaster.

He had no respect whatever for the Pass Memo., his central and sole idea
being to push along with the elimination of the Bosch. When he wanted
something done, he just went to the Top-man of the department, called
him "I say," and went straight to the point.

The Top-man had never been asked to do business this way before.

He
put up with it a dozen times or so, but finally he had to take steps.
So he wrote a little note on a Buff slip and addressed it, very rightly
of course, to the Top-man but one; and the Top-man but one read it
and passed it very carefully to the Top-man but two; and so, with
that inevitability which is the hall-mark of the system, it was passed
and passed and passed until it came (in less than a week) to the office
of the ancient Lieutenant on the opposite side of the street.

And it ran: "Lieutenant So-and-So should be notified that it is neither necessary nor desirable that he should
call personally at this office to transact his business. Matters should
be put forward by him through the usual course of correspondence."

The ancient Lieutenant, who wouldn't hurt anybody's feelings for the
world, felt that it was up to him to put the matter right. So he stepped
across to the Top-man's office, and when the Top-man asked him, somewhat pointedly,
if he had received his note, the Ancient very genially replied, "Yes, thank
you," and explained that he had just looked in personally to acknowledge
receipt of same.

It sounds as if a dreadful quarrel would be raging between the Ancient
on one side and on the other the Top-man, the whole series of under-Top-men
and all persons in any way representing the military system.

You'd expect to hear that the Ancient's conversation at mess is insubordinate,
rebellious, or at least bitterly sarcastic.

No such thing; the old gentleman becomes a more ardent militarist
every day; wants to see once for all an end of all lawyer-politicians,
and all so-called "business-men."

"We have made a poor show of being civilians," is his point; "let's
try being soldiers for a generation or two."

On the whole he thinks we should find it easier to carry on as a British
Empire in uniform than as a German province in mufti.

He says that what's wrong with Prussian Militarism is that it is Prussian;
to succeed, the thing has to be run by gentlemen.

A Top-man honoured our mess the other night. Under the mellowing influence
of our Curried Bully he unbent somewhat and encouraged the Ancient
on his pet subject.

Under the influence of the latter's theories he unbent still further.
He discoursed upon the true inwardness of the military method of running
an office, pausing at last for the Ancient to say a few words. "Oh,"
said he, "I don't allow myself to be put off by a trifle like that.
There's many a kind heart behind a Buff slip, and we all have our
little weaknesses."

The idea of having a little weakness was so novel to the Top-man that
it caused him to choke and to be led from the mess, eventually, in
a state of nervous exhaustion.

The
latest information from the trenches goes to support the maxim that all
one requires to wage war is a bold face and a gas helmet. A very distinguished
O.C. went up the other day to inspect the trenches of his command
and to express such views of their faults and the faults of their
inmates as might occur to him from time to time.

He had progressed some way up the communication trench, when it struck
him that, whereas his recent order had been particularly menacing
to everyone of whatever rank who was discovered there or thereabouts
without a gas helmet, nevertheless he himself was at that moment innocent
of such furniture.

Fortunately there came from the opposite direction an odds-and-end
private, with nothing in his favour except the wearing of the well-known
satchel so much in vogue in Flanders society for the carrying of
gas helmets.

That was enough for the Commander; this was essentially one of those
privates to be called "My man," and treated as such. Politely but firmly
he was requested to part with his satchel as a temporary loan to his
General. Firmly, if respectfully, he refused to comply. Them was his orders.
The Commander congratulated him on his very proper attitude, explained
to him the nature of the higher commands and demanded the satchel.

The man looked like being stony about it, but the Commander became irresistibly
commanding and got the satchel at last. He buckled it on, and the party
proceeded, characterising the reluctance of the private to part with his
treasure as almost an exaggerated sense of obedience to printed orders.

Gas helmets always exercise a peculiar fascination for people who inspect
trenches, and the matter was now especially prominent in the mind
of the Commander as he marched along, outwardly appearing to be at
his happiest here, inwardly thanking goodness that his home was elsewhere.

Conceive his delight to discover a subaltern, fresh from ablutions, with no satchel upon him! The subaltern,
distinctly aware of this amongst his many failings, was all for being
passed by as insignificant; the Commander was all for a scene.

Everybody halted, and the air became pregnant with possibilities....
It was a nicely calculated speech, leading up gradually to the pointed
contrast between (a) overworked Commander, weighed down with responsibilities,
absorbed day and night in momentous matters of large principle, nevertheless
infallible on smallest detail and now in possession of gas helmet,
one, and (b) very junior subaltern, free to enjoy the open-air irresponsible
life of the trenches, yet neglecting even the few small matters entrusted
to him, without same.

"And what's more, Sir," he concluded, "I doubt very much whether,
if someone gave you a helmet now, you'd know what to do with it. Here,
take mine." (The attendant Brass-hats liked the "mine," but very discreetly
kept their emotions to themselves.)

It was not a peculiarly clean
or remarkably well-packed satchel which the trembling hand of the
disgraced subaltern took from the Commander, and the latter did not
intend to let attention dwell too long upon the grimy details of its
exterior. Fixing the steel eye of conscious rectitude on his victim,
he leant slightly towards him and very unmistakably shouted at him
the one dread word, "GAS!".... Unfortunately for the Commander the
subaltern not only knew what to do next, but also had just the physical
strength remaining in his fingers to start doing it. With the eyes
of all upon him (and by this time there had gathered round quite a
nice little crowd, thoroughly conversant with the event in progress),
the subaltern opened the satchel alleged to belong to the Commander
and took from it--no, Charles, not a gas helmet, but a pair of socks--and
such socks too!

Yours ever, HENRY.

* * * * *

* * * * *

ON BELLONA'S
HEM.

* * * * *

* * * * *

"Mrs. Ruth Roberts, of Folkestone, celebrates
the completion of her 103rd year to-day. She is one of a family of
twenty-two, and her father fought with two of her sons at Waterloo."--Irish
Times.

She seems to have been very young for a mother when these
family dissensions occurred.

* * * * *

"Will you allow me to give
a warning to Ford owners who, like myself, jack up to obtain an easy
start. A few days ago I was doing so as usual with only one scotch.
The car jumped the jack, went over the scotch, knocked me down, ran
over me, tore my clothes to rags, bruised me all over, tore my flesh
and broke my collar-bone, and I think I got off very lightly. Of course
that will not happen to me again."--The Motor.

He will either drink
the Scotch first or not have one at all.

* * * * *

* * * * *

THE
FAUNA OF THE FRONT.

Chief among the fauna of the Front is, of course,
the Bosch, a subterranean animal of unpleasant habits, which is now
classed as vermin. He has been so thoroughly dealt with elsewhere
that I shall leave him on one side, and confine my few observations
to smaller and pleasanter creatures. The remaining fauna of the Front
are (1) mice; (2) rats; with a few interesting extras, furred and
feathered, which deserve more serious treatment than I can give them.

At
home the mouse is regarded with contemptuous annoyance as a petty
but persevering thief; while the rat commits his grosser depredations
in an atmosphere tinged with horror. Out here it is different, for
we are perforce neighbours. Indeed, we bipeds are in a sense trespassers
upon the domain of the subterranean peoples. At home one seldom sees
a rat or mouse save from above, and to look down upon anything is
invariably to misjudge it. But here we share the hospitality of the
underground and meet its freehold tenants on a level.

"Even after all I've written?"

Jim bethought himself.  "Isn't it what you've written that has made Mrs. Newsome pack us off?
That at least and Chad's not turning up?"

Strether made a reflexion of his own.  "I see.  That she should do something was, no doubt,
inevitable, and your wife has therefore of course come out to act."

"Oh yes," Jim concurred--"to act.  But Sally comes out to act, you know," he lucidly added,
"every time she leaves the house.  She never comes out but she DOES act.  She's acting moreover
now for her mother, and that fixes the scale." Then he wound up, opening all his senses to
it, with a renewed embrace of pleasant Paris.  "We haven't all the same at Woollett got anything
like this."

Strether continued to consider.  "I'm bound to say for you all that you strike me as having
arrived in a very mild and reasonable frame of mind.  You don't show your claws.  I felt just
now in Mrs. Pocock no symptom of that.  She isn't fierce," he went on.  "I'm such a nervous
idiot that I thought she might be."

"Oh don't you know her well enough," Pocock asked, "to have noticed that she never gives herself
away, any more than her mother ever does? They ain't fierce, either of 'em; they let you come
quite close.  They wear their fur the smooth side out--the warm side in. Do you know what they
are?" Jim pursued as he looked about him, giving the question, as Strether felt, but half his
care--"do you know what they are?  They're about as intense as they can live."

"Yes"--and Strether's concurrence had a positive precipitation; "they're about as intense as
they can live."

"They don't lash about and shake the cage," said Jim, who seemed pleased with his analogy;
"and it's at feeding-time that they're quietest.  But they always get there."

"They do indeed--they always get there!" Strether replied with a laugh that justified his confession
of nervousness.  He disliked to be talking sincerely of Mrs.  Newsome with Pocock; he could
have talked insincerely.  But there was something he wanted to know, a need created in him
by her recent intermission, by his having given from the first so much, as now more than ever
appeared to him, and got so little.  It was as if a queer truth in his companion's metaphor
had rolled over him with a rush.  She HAD been quiet at feeding-time; she had fed, and Sarah
had fed with her, out of the big bowl of all his recent free communication, his vividness and
pleasantness, his ingenuity and even his eloquence, while the current of her response had steadily
run thin. Jim meanwhile however, it was true, slipped characteristically into shallowness from
the moment he ceased to speak out of the experience of a husband.

"But of course Chad has now the advantage of being there before her. If he doesn't work that
for all it's worth--!"  He sighed with contingent pity at his brother-in-law's possible want
of resource. "He has worked it on YOU, pretty well, eh?" and he asked the next moment if there
were anything new at the Varieties, which he pronounced in the American manner.  They talked
about the Varieties--Strether confessing to a knowledge which produced again on Pocock's part
a play of innuendo as vague as a nursery-rhyme, yet as aggressive as an elbow in his side;
and they finished their drive under the protection of easy themes. Strether waited to the end,
but still in vain, for any show that Jim had seen Chad as different;  and he could scarce have
explained the discouragement he drew from the absence of this testimony.  It was what he had
taken his own stand on,  so far as he had taken a stand; and if they were all only going to
see nothing he had only wasted his time. He gave his friend till the very last moment, till
they had come into sight of the hotel; and when poor Pocock only continued cheerful and envious
and funny he fairly grew to dislike him, to feel him extravagantly common.  If they were ALL
going to see nothing!--Strether knew,  as this came back to him, that he was also letting Pocock
represent for him what Mrs. Newsome wouldn't see.  He went on disliking, in the light of Jim's
commonness, to talk to him about that lady; yet just before the cab pulled up he knew the extent
of his desire for the real word from Woollett.

"Has Mrs. Newsome at all given way--?"

"'Given way'?"--Jim echoed it with the practical derision of his sense of a long past.

"Under the strain, I mean, of hope deferred, of disappointment repeated and thereby intensified."

"Oh is she prostrate, you mean?"--he had his categories in hand. "Why yes, she's prostrate--just
as Sally is.  But they're never so lively, you know, as when they're prostrate."

"Ah Sarah's prostrate?" Strether vaguely murmured.

"It's when they're prostrate that they most sit up."

"And Mrs. Newsome's sitting up?"

"All night, my boy--for YOU!"  And Jim fetched him,  with a vulgar little guffaw, a thrust
that gave relief to the picture.  But he had got what he wanted.  He felt on the spot that
this WAS the real word from Woollett.  "So don't you go home!" Jim added while he alighted
and while his friend, letting him profusely pay the cabman,  sat on in a momentary muse.  Strether
wondered if that were the real word too.

III

As the door of Mrs. Pocock's salon was pushed open for him, the next day, well before noon,
he was reached by a voice with a charming sound that made him just falter before crossing the
threshold.  Madame de Vionnet was already on the field, and this gave the drama a quicker pace
than he felt it as yet--though his suspense had increased--in the power of any act of his own
to do. He had spent the previous evening with all his old friends together yet he would still
have described himself as quite in the dark in respect to a forecast of their influence on
his situation. It was strange now, none the less, that in the light of this unexpected note
of her presence he felt Madame de Vionnet a part of that situation as she hadn't even yet been.
She was alone, he found himself assuming, with Sarah, and there was a bearing in that--somehow
beyond his control--on his personal fate.  Yet she was only saying something quite easy and
independent--the thing she had come, as a good friend of Chad's, on purpose to say. "There
isn't anything at all--?  I should be so delighted."

It was clear enough, when they were there before him, how she had been received.  He saw this,
as Sarah got up to greet him, from something fairly hectic in Sarah's face.  He saw furthermore
that they weren't, as had first come to him, alone together; he was at no loss as to the identity
of the broad high back presented to him in the embrasure of the window furthest from the door.
Waymarsh, whom he had to-day not yet seen,  whom he only knew to have left the hotel before
him,  and who had taken part, the night previous, on Mrs.  Pocock's kind invitation, conveyed
by Chad, in the entertainment, informal but cordial, promptly offered by that lady--Waymarsh
had anticipated him even as Madame de Vionnet had done, and, with his hands in his pockets
and his attitude unaffected by Strether's entrance, was looking out, in marked detachment,
at the Rue de Rivoli. "Judy (she's my wife) she tell me she heah Miss Anne when she axed ole missis
mout she wear mo'nin' fur 'im. I don' know how dat is; but when we buried
'im nex' day, she wuz de one whar walked arfter de coffin, holdin'
ole marster, an' ole missis she walked next to 'em."

"Well, we buried Marse Chan dyar in de ole grabeyard, wid de fleg wrapped
roun' 'im, an' he face lookin' like it did dat mawnin' down in de
low groun's, wid de new sun shinin' on it so peaceful.

Dat warn' so
mighty long, 'cause ole marster he died dat fall, when dey wuz fallerin' fur wheat--I had jes' married Judy
den--an' ole missis she warn' long behine him. We buried her by him next summer. Miss Anne she went in
de hospitals toreckly arfter ole missis died; an' jes' fo' Richmond fell
she come home sick wid de fever. Yo' nuvver would 'a' knowed her
fur de same ole Miss Anne.

She wuz light ez a piece o' peth, an' so white, 'cep' her eyes an' her sorrel
hyar, an' she kep' on gittin' whiter an' weaker. Judy she sut'n'y
did nuss her faithful. But she nuvver got no betterment! De fever
an' Marse Chan's bein' kilt hed done strain her, an' she died jes'
'fo' de folks wuz sot free.

"So we buried Miss Anne right by Marse Chan, in a place whar ole missis
hed tole us to leave, an' dey's bofe on 'em sleep side by side over
in de ole grabeyard at home.

"An' will yo' please tell me, marster? Dey tells me dat de Bible sey dyar
won' be marryin' nor givin' in marriage in heaven, but I don' b'lieve
it signifies dat--does yo'?"

I gave him the comfort of my earnest belief in some other interpretation, together with several spare
"eighteen-pences," as he called them, for which he seemed humbly
grateful.

And as I rode away I heard him calling across the fence to his wife,
who was standing in the door of a small whitewashed cabin, near which
we had been standing for some time:

"Judy, have Marse Chan's dawg got home?"

MR. BIXBY'S CHRISTMAS VISITOR.

BY CHARLES S. GAGE.

Appleton's Journal, December 30, 1871.

At the head of the first flight of stairs, and on opposite sides of the landing, were the respective
rooms of Mr. Bixby and Mr. Bangs.

The house in which they lived stood in a quiet and retired street on the lower and western side of New York,
a locality which was once inhabited by fashionable families, afterward
by old-fashioned families, and at the time of our story by the keepers
of boarding-houses for single men.

Mr. Henry Bixby and Mr. Alfred Bangs were single men--Mr. Bangs, the wine-merchant, because he liked
wine and song so well that he never had leisure to think of women, because
he was fat, because he was red in the face, and, if more reasons are necessary,
because his fingers were chubby and short. For twenty years, day
by day, Mr. Bangs had been absorbed in business.

For twenty years, night after night, it had been his custom to entertain his friends at his apartment
in not a very quiet way. He was so happy, and bulbous, and jolly, that he had never thought of marriage.
Yet he might easily have been mistaken by the casual observer for a family
man. He wore a white vest when it wasn't too cold; his linen was
painfully plain.

There was not a sign of jewelry about him. He wore low shoes, which he tied with a ribbon. This was
Mr. Bangs.

Not quite so old in years as the opposite lodger was Mr. Bixby, known
to his few friends as a genial philosopher and poet, to the public
as the literary critic of one of the great daily papers.

He might have been thirty-five years of age, but, as he had lived more
for others than for himself, as he had made a study and not a pleasure
of life, his gray eyes and the other features of his face suggested
to whoever met him a longer past.

There was
something about him that caused men to wonder, not what he was, but
what he had been.

For ten years Mr. Bangs and Mr. Bixby had been inmates of the house
together.

Mr. Bangs had been there longer. The present landlady had received as
a legacy from her predecessor, who did not care to take him away,
Mr. Bangs.

As she said, she made a present of Bangs.

Long as they had known each other, the two lodgers were only acquaintances.
Sometimes, on a Sunday afternoon, they would walk out in company,
stroll down to the Battery, and there smoke their cigars and watch
the ships, but beyond this point of sociability, which neither enjoyed,
there was nothing more.

Never had Bixby read Bangs any poem he had made, nor did ever Bangs
invite Bixby to meet his convivial friends of an evening to play whist
or to partake of his mulled ale.

In fact, Mr. Bixby had been often and with great enthusiasm voted an unsocial fellow by the cronies of Mr. Bangs,
but he rose somewhat in their estimation when they were informed that he had consented to exchange rooms
with their host.

"He isn't such a grouty fellow, after all," said Bangs. "I told him that we were too near the street, and
that some one had been complaining to the landlady of our singing.

He didn't even stop to think, but agreed to do it at once. He thought the light would be better
here. Now, fellows, I call that doing the fair thing."

And the speech of Mr. Bangs was applauded.

It was the morning of the day before Christmas that the change was effected. In
the closet where had been the bottles, the decanters, glasses, and
pickle-jars of the late occupant, Mr. Bixby had arranged shelves,
and filled them with his books.

Over the mantel, from which Mr. Bangs had taken away a colored print of
a bull-dog in an overcoat, Mr. Bixby hung a fine engraving of the
Madonna, and on the mantel itself he had placed his clock.

It was a small French clock under a crystal, so that its rapidly-swinging
pendulum could be easily seen. All bachelors, however negligent of
their surroundings, have some one hobby among articles of furniture.

It may be an easy-chair, or a book-case, or a chandelier--there is
one thing that must be the best of its kind.

There could be no doubt, from the care with which Mr. Bixby placed
his clock in its position, and from time to time compared it with
his watch, that this was his hobby.

It had the three requisites which he demanded in a clock. It kept correct time without failing,
its pendulum swung rapidly, and was plainly visible. Time past was
the happiness of Mr. Bixby, and this clock told him continually that
all was being done that could be done to induce the hours of every
day to go over to the majority.

He depended upon this clock. He was surer of its mechanism than of that
of his own heart.

What with hanging his pictures and arranging his furniture, and with many other
little things which had to be done, Mr. Bixby was busily employed
all day.

But the
task was not an unpleasant one. His heart was in the work, for there was hardly an object in the room not nearly
associated with some event in his past life. After carefully brushing the dust from an old writing-desk,
which had evidently once belonged to a lady, he placed it upon the
rug in front of the fire.

Only on Christmas-eves was this desk opened.

"It is curious," thought Mr. Bixby, "that I should have moved this day,
of all days in the year!"

Often in his work he thought of stopping to take from the desk an old packet of letters, and reading
them once more. But it was not yet time, and, moreover, he was continually interrupted. First,
there came some one to his door with "Two dozen Congress-water for Mr. Bangs;"
then one with "Mr. Bangs's boots," and another to tell Mr. Bangs
that "the pup was big enough to take away."

Finally, came Bangs himself, to complain of like interruptions, and
to bid him good-by.

"Here is some manuscript a boy left for you. You will have to attend both
doors now. I am off to spend Christmas.

We are going to have a Tom-and-Jerry party in Jersey. You know--

"'The Tom-and-Jerry days have come, the happiest in the year!'

"Good
rendering, eh?

That isn't all:

"'I only wish to live till the juleps come again!'"

And Mr. Bangs laughed uproariously, even after he had said, "Good-by," and
shut the door behind him.

"What a personification of Bacchus!" thought Mr. Bixby--

"'Ever laughing, ever young.'

"He will be young as long as he lives, but I am afraid that won't be long. If ever there was a man in immediate
danger of apoplexy, Bangs is that man."

It was after dinner when Mr. Bixby lighted his drop-light and sat
down before the fire.

He pushed an ottoman in front of him, on which to rest his feet, which
he had comfortably encased in his slippers. But the shadows in his new room
did not please him.

He could hardly see the clock on the mantel. The Madonna above was
completely in the shade. So he lighted the chandelier above and sat
down again, hoping that no friend, either of his own or of Mr. Bangs,
would interrupt him.

The desk was open at his feet. The package of letters lay near him
on the table. He placed his hand upon them, but let it rest there. The hour
had not quite arrived when he would read them. He fell again into
the reveries of the day.

He lingered over the thoughts of his better life ere he opened the packet
which told of its end.

For the last ten years he had labored without ambition, and had been successful.
His name was well known as a journalist, and his salary was ample.
Before that time he had striven ambitiously, but fruitlessly, patiently,
but as in a quicksand, until, on a day, he had none to strive for
but himself, and then success had come.

Since noon, seven hours and twenty-nine minutes, said the clock
before him.

His anniversary was near. Mr. Bixby drew the letters near him, and
untied the package.

Just then there came a knock at his door, and, before he had determined whether
or not he should say, "Come in," the door opened, and an elderly gentleman
stepped into the apartment. Quietly he came in. There was no sound
attending his entrance except the knock. Mr. Bixby, looking up, saw
a man of more than ordinary height, with countenance rigid and puritanical
in expression, as though the mind which had formed it was one influenced
more by justice than mercy.

His eyes were concealed by a pair of colored spectacles, but these, as they caught and reflected the light,
were brighter and more startling than any eyes could have been. He was dressed in a long surtout,
which he wore closely buttoned, high dickey, and high black-silk stock, which covered his throat to
his chin. His iron-gray hair was brushed somewhat pompously backward
over his forehead, and his whole effect was that of a gentleman of the
generation which wore bell-crowned hats and carried enormous canes
with tassels.

But what attracted Mr. Bixby's particular attention were the wrinkles
of his face.

These were in all places where wrinkles should not be. One ran straight
through the centre of his forehead, continuing the line of the nose upward
to the hair. Two others, starting from the bridge of the nose, ran diagonally
down to the nostrils. He was close-shaven, and his lips were straight and
thin. These peculiarities of his visitor Mr. Bixby had barely time to mark
when the gentleman said:

"Ah, Mr. Bangs, I am glad to find you in!"

Mr. Bixby never in his life more desired to be alone, and yet there was something
in this old man which so attracted him that he could not correct his mistake.
He felt a sudden fascination and desire to know more of him. Bangs was
away and could not be seen. The gentleman could not be very well acquainted
with Bangs, very probably never had seen him, or he would not have made
such an error. But nothing but the influence which seemed to proceed
from his visitor could have induced Mr. Bixby to answer as he did.

"Thank you, sir. Pray, take this chair."

As he said this, he arose and wheeled an easy-chair to the other
side of the table.

The elderly gentleman sat down.

"You have a very cheerful apartment here, Mr. Bangs."

"Yes. I always like to be comfortable."

"Of course," said the elderly gentleman.

"Will you remove your overcoat, sir?" asked Mr. Bixby, and immediately
repented it.

"Oh, no, I shall stop but a moment."

There was an interval of silence. A block of coal broke open in the grate
and fell apart. A jet of gas burst forth and burned, then sputtered and went
out. Mr. Bixby wondered on what business he had come, and why he did
not open the subject at once, if he was only intending to stop a moment.

"It
is very disagreeable weather out," said the man with the pompous forelock,
interrupting his reflections.

"Snowing?" asked Bixby.

"No--sleet."

"Very unpleasant to have far to go such a night," suggested Bixby,
who could think of nothing better to say.

"Not at all," responded the old gentleman, authoritatively.

Bixby was silent again.

The old gentleman, leaning with his elbow on the table, began again.

"You like to live well, Mr. Bangs?"

"I try to," answered Mr. Bixby.
"Yes."

"This must be some relative of Bangs come to deliver him
a lecture on his course of life. Why don't he broach his advice at
once?" thought Mr. Bixby. The visitor here pulled a glove from his
right hand, ran his fingers through his hair, and then, in a more
business-like tone, spoke again:

"Although a stranger to you personally,
Mr. Bangs, I have always taken a great interest in your family. Mr.
Bangs, I knew your father."

"Indeed! I never heard him speak--"

"No,
I dare say; it was near the end of his life. I was near by, and rendered
him some assistance, when he died suddenly of apoplexy. He was not
so much of a man as your grandfather."

"Was he not?" asked Mr. Bixby,
musingly. He was thinking how old the grandfather of his friend Bangs
must have been.

"No," continued the elderly gentleman; "but even
his judgment I never considered equal to that of your great-grandfather."

"Here
is, indeed, a friend--a friend of the family. Why is Mr. Bangs away?"
thought Mr. Bixby, and he bent his head a little, and looked under
the drop-light, to get a view of his visitor. He saw only the reflection
on his spectacles, and drew back suddenly, for fear of being detected.

"You
like a good song, I have heard, Mr. Bangs," came from the other side
of the table. "Have you any favorite?"

Mr. Bixby did not understand
this at all. The question puzzled him. Should he as Bangs fall in
the estimation of some relative if he admitted the fact? Or did his
visitor intend to sing? However, he felt compelled to be frank, so
he said:

"Oh, yes; I like a good song. Some of the Scotch ballads
please me most. There is 'The Land o' the Leal.'"

"A very fine song,
sir. A very fine song. It is a credit to any man to like that song."

The
old gentleman was excited. Mr. Bixby was just congratulating himself
on having given Bangs a lift, when his thoughts were turned into an
altogether new channel by the following remark:

"It was my impression,
however, that your taste ran rather in the way of drinking-songs.
I should have thought now you would have said, 'The Coal-Black Wine.'"

There
was something in the tone with which this was uttered that made Mr.
Bixby shudder. It ran through his mind that this man was some enemy
of Bangs--that he was dangerous. Startled by this sudden suspicion,
tremblingly he again peered under the shade. The wrinkle in the line
of the frontal suture was more deeply indented. The light on the spectacles
was brighter than ever.

"Mr. Bangs, I called on your opposite neighbor,
Mr. Bixby, to-night. I knocked on the door, but he was away."

"Yes,"
said Mr. Bixby, somewhat confused. He wished that Bangs had stayed
at home, and determined to end the interview as soon as possible.

"Yes.
I am sorry. I had a positive appointment with him. I am a great friend
of his."

"Does he know you?"

"Oh, no; we have never met personally
that he remembers. I am an old friend of the family.  The worst is that Miss Gostrey is really a wonderful woman."

"Oh yes indeed," Strether answered for her, "Mrs. Pocock knows about Miss Gostrey.  Your mother,
Sarah, must have told you about her; your mother knows everything," he sturdily pursued.  "And
I cordially admit," he added with his conscious gaiety of courage, "that she's as wonderful
a woman as you like."

"Ah it isn't I who 'like,' dear Mr. Strether, anything to do with the matter!" Sarah Pocock
promptly protested; "and I'm by no means sure I have--from my mother or from any one else--a
notion of whom you're talking about."

"Well, he won't let you see her, you know," Madame de Vionnet sympathetically threw in.  "He
never lets me--old friends as we are: I mean as I am with Maria.  He reserves her for his best
hours; keeps her consummately to himself; only gives us others the crumbs of the feast."

"Well, Countess, I'VE had some of the crumbs," Waymarsh observed with weight and covering her
with his large look; which led her to break in before he could go on.

"Comment donc, he shares her with YOU?" she exclaimed in droll stupefaction.  "Take care you
don't have, before you go much further, rather more of all ces dames than you may know what
to do with!"

But he only continued in his massive way.  "I can post you about the lady, Mrs. Pocock, so
far as you may care to hear.  I've seen her quite a number of times, and I was practically
present when they made acquaintance.  I've kept my eye on her right along, but I don't know
as there's any real harm in her."

"'Harm'?" Madame de Vionnet quickly echoed.  "Why she's the dearest and cleverest of all the
clever and dear."

"Well, you run her pretty close, Countess," Waymarsh returned with spirit; "though there's
no doubt she's pretty well up in things. She knows her way round Europe.  Above all there's
no doubt she does love Strether."

"Ah but we all do that--we all love Strether:  it isn't a merit!" their fellow visitor laughed,
keeping to her idea with a good conscience at which our friend was aware that he marvelled,
though he trusted also for it, as he met her exquisitely expressive eyes, to some later light.

The prime effect of her tone, however--and it was a truth which his own eyes gave back to her
in sad ironic play--could only be to make him feel that, to say such things to a man in public,
a woman must practically think of him as ninety years old.  He had turned awkwardly, responsively
red, he knew, at her mention of Maria Gostrey; Sarah Pocock's presence--the particular quality
of it--had made this inevitable; and then he had grown still redder in proportion as he hated
to have shown anything at all.  He felt indeed that he was showing much, as, uncomfortably
and almost in pain, he offered up his redness to Waymarsh, who, strangely enough, seemed now
to be looking at him with a certain explanatory yearning.  Something deep--something built
on their old old relation--passed, in this complexity, between them; he got the side-wind of
a loyalty that stood behind all actual queer questions.  Waymarsh's dry bare humour--as it
gave itself to be taken--gloomed out to demand justice.  "Well, if you talk of Miss Barrace
I've MY chance too," it appeared stiffly to nod, and it granted that it was giving him away,
but struggled to add that it did so only to save him.  The sombre glow stared it at him till
it fairly sounded out--"to save you, poor old man, to save you; to save you in spite of yourself."
Yet it was somehow just this communication that showed him to himself as more than ever lost.
Still another result of it was to put before him as never yet that between his comrade and
the interest represented by Sarah there was already a basis.  Beyond all question now, yes:
Waymarsh had been in occult relation with Mrs. Newsome--out, out it all came in the very effort
of his face.  "Yes, you're feeling my hand"--he as good as proclaimed it; "but only because
this at least I SHALL have got out of the damned Old World:  that I shall have picked up the
pieces into which it has caused you to crumble." It was as if in short, after an instant, Strether
had not only had it from him, but had recognised that so far as this went the instant had cleared
the air. Our friend understood and approved; he had the sense that they wouldn't otherwise
speak of it. To strengthen his cause he made alliances at different times with the Muwallads in Elvira, Seville,
and Saragoza, and with the successful rebel, Abdurrahman ibn Merwan,
in Badajos.

[1] Dozy, ii. 190.

[2] Al Makkari, ii. 437. De Gayangos' note.

[3] In 880 or 881.

[4] See a description of him quoted by Stanley Lane-Poole ("Moors
in Spain," p. 107) from an Arab writer: "Woe unto thee, Cordova! when
the captain with the great nose and ugly face--he who is guarded before
by Moslems, and behind by idolaters--when Ibn Hafsun comes before
thy gates.

Then will thine awful fate be accomplished."

Openly defying the Sultan's forces, he was only kept in check by Almundhir,
the king's son, who succeeded his father in 886.

Omar was further strengthened by the accession to his side of Sherbil, the Count of Cordova.[1]
The death of Almundhir in 888 removed from Omar's path his only able
enemy, and, during Abdallah's weak reign, the rebel leader was virtual
king of the south and east of Spain.

The district of Regio[2] was made over to him by the king, and Omar's lieutenant, Ibn Mastarna, was made
chief of Priejo.

This protracted war, which was really one for national independence, was carried
on year after year with varying success. At one time Omar conceived the
intention of proclaiming the Abasside Khalifs,[3] at another he grasped
at the royal power himself; and Abdallah's empire was only saved
by a seasonable victory in 891 at Hisn Belay (or Espiel).[4] The battle
was fought on the eve of the Passover, and the Moslems taunted their
enemies with having such a joyful feast, and so many victims to commemorate
it with.

This shows that a large, perhaps the largest, part of Omar's army was
Christian. Another indication of this is found in a poem of Tarikh
ibn Habib,[5] where, speaking of the coming destruction of Cordova, he
says: "The safest place will then be the hill of Abu Abdu, where once
stood a church," meaning that Omar's Christian soldiers would respect
that sanctuary, and no other. Indeed, it is certain that Omar himself
became a Christian some time before this battle,[6] as his father had
done before him. He took the name of Samuel, and his daughter Argentea,
as we have seen, suffered martyrdom. This change of creed on Omar's
part changed the character of the war, and gave it more of a religious,[7]
and perhaps less of a national, character, for the Spanish Moslems fell
off from him, when he became Christian and built churches.

[1] Servandus. Al Makkari, ii. 456. De Gayangos' note.

[2] Where Islam was almost extinct.

Dozy, ii. 335.

[3] Al Makkari, ii. p. 456.

De Gayangos' note.

[4] Ibn Hayyan, apud Al Makk., ii. p. 452. This seems to be the same victory as that which Dozy (ii. 284)
calls Polei or Aguilar.

[5] See Dozy, ii. p. 275.

[6] Ibn Hayyan, apud Dozy, ii. p. 326.

[7] In 896, on the capture of Cazlona by a renegade named Ibn as Khalia, all the Christians
were massacred.--Dozy, ii. p. 327.

Towards the close of his reign Abdallah was able to assert his supremacy,
though Omar and his followers still held out.

Omar himself did not die till 917, some years after Abdallah's death.
The king's successor, Abdurrahman III., was a different stamp of man from Abdallah,
and the reduction of Omar became only a question of time, though,
in fact, the apostasy of Omar from Islam had made the ultimate success
of the national party very doubtful, if not impossible.

After Omar's death, his son, Djaffar, thought to recover the support
of the Spanish Moslems by embracing Islam; but he thereby lost the confidence
of the Christians, by whom he was murdered. In 928 his brother Hafs
surrendered, with Bobastro, to the Sultan, and the great rebellion was finally
extinguished.

So ended the grand struggle of the national party, first under the-direction of the Muwallads, and then
of the Christians, to shake off the Arab and Berber yoke. During the remainder of the tenth century
the strong administration of Abdurrahman III., Hakem II., and the great Almanzor, gave the Christians
no chance of raising the cry of "Spain for the Spanish." The danger of
a renewal of the rebellion once removed, the position of the Christians
does not seem to have been made any worse in consequence of their
late disaffection, and Abdurrahman, himself the son of a Christian
mother, treated all parties in the revolt with great leniency, even
against the wishes and advice of the more devout Moslems.

Almanzor, too, made himself respected, and even liked, by his Christian
subjects, and there is no doubt that his victories over the Christian States
in the North[1] were won very largely with the aid of Christian soldiers.
His death was the signal for the disruption of the Spanish Khalifate, and
from 1010-1031, when the khalifate was finally extinguished, complete
anarchy prevailed in Saracen Spain. The Berbers made a determined effort
to regain their ascendency, and their forces, seconded by the Christians,
succeeded in placing Suleiman on the throne in 1013.

A succession of feeble
rulers, set up by the different factions--Arab, Berber, and Slave--followed,
until Hischem III. was forced to abdicate in 1031, and the Umeyyade
dynasty came to an end, after lasting 275 years.

By this time the Christians in the
North had gathered themselves together for a combined advance against
the Saracen provinces, never again to retrograde, scarcely even to
be checked, till in 1492 fell Granada, the last stronghold of the
Moors in Spain.[2]

[1] Al Makkari, ii. p. 214.

[2] In 1630 there was not a single Moslem left in Spain.--Al Makk., i. p. 74.

CHAPTER IX.

CHRISTIANS AND MOSLEMS IGNORANT OF ONE ANOTHER'S CREED.

In spite of the close contact into which the Christians and Mohammedans were brought in Spain, and
the numerous conversions and frequent intermarriages between the two sections,
no thorough knowledge seems to have existed, on either side, of the creed
of the other party. Such, at least, is the conclusion to which we are
driven, on reading the only direct records which remain on the subject
among Arab and Christian writers.

These on the Christian side consist chiefly of quotations from a book on Mohammedanism by the abbot
Speraindeo in a work of his disciple, Eulogius;[1] and some rather incoherent
denunciations of Mohammed and his religion by Alvar,[2] another pupil
of the abbot's. In these, as might be expected, great stress is laid
on the sensuality of Mohammed's paradise,[3] and the lewdness of the
Prophet himself.

As to the latter, though many of Gibbon's coarse sarcasms do not rest
on good authority, very little can be said for the Prophet. But among
other blasphemies attributed by Speraindeo to Mohammed is one of which we
find no mention in the Koran--the assertion, namely, that he would
in the next world be wedded to the Virgin Mary.

John, Bishop of Seville, is equally incorrect when, in a letter to Alvar,[4] he alleges
a promise on the part of Mohammed that he would, like Christ, rise
again from the dead; whereas his body, being neglected by his relations,
was devoured by dogs.

The Christian bishop does not hesitate to add--sepultus est in infernum--he
was buried in hell.[5]

[1] Eul., "Mem.

Sanct.," i. sec. 7.

[2] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," secs. 21-35.

[3] Ibid., secs. 23, 24. Mohammed's paradise was by no means wholly sensual.--Sale's
Koran. Introd., p. 78.

[4] Sec 9.

[5] This shows the hatred of Christians for Mohammed, whom, says Eulogius
("Mem. Sanct.," i. sec. 20), it would be every Christian's duty to
kill, were he alive on earth.

It is generally supposed that Mohammed could neither read nor write, and this appears to have been the
opinion of Alvar;[1] but the same witness acknowledges that the Koran was composed in such eloquent
and beautiful language that even Christians could not help reading and admiring it.[2]

On the important question of Mohammed's position with regard to Christianity, Eulogius[3] at least
formed a correct judgment.

Mohammed, he tells us "blasphemously taught that Christ was the Word
of God,[4] and His Spirit;[5] a great prophet,[6] endowed with much
power from God;[7] like Adam in His creation,[8] but not equal to
God (the Creator);[9] and that by reason of His blameless[10] life,
being filled with the Holy Spirit,[11] He showed marvellous signs
and wonders through the power of God,[12] not working by His own Godhead,
but as a righteous Man, and an obedient servant,[13] obtaining much
power and might from the Almighty God through prayer."

[1] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," sec.

26.

[2] Ibid., sec. 29.

This is more than can be said at the present day.

[3] Eul., "Lib.

Apol.," sec. 19.

[4] Koran, ch. iii. 40.

[5] Koran, ch. ii. 81, "strengthened with Holy Spirit."

[6] Kor., c. iii. 59.

[7] Kor., c. iii. 45.

[8] Kor., c. iii. 50.

[9] Kor., c. ix. 33.

[10] Kor., c. iii.

[11] This is a mistake of Eulogius. See Sale's note on Koran, ch.
ii. 81, note.

[12] Kor., ch. v. 110 ff.

[13] Koran, cc. iv. ad fin; xliii.

59.

Alvar is much more unfair to Mohammed than his friend Eulogius, and
he even seems to have had a prejudiced idea[1] that the Prophet set himself
deliberately to preach doctrines the opposite of those taught by
Christ. It would be nearer to the truth to say that the divergence between
the two codes of morals was due to the natural ignorance of an illiterate
Arabian, brought into contact only with an heretical form of Christianity,
the real doctrines of which he was therefore not likely to know.

According to Alvar, the sixth day of the week was chosen for the Mohammedan
holy day, because Christ suffered on that day. We shall realise the
absurdity of this when we consider the reverence in which Mohammed
held the very name of Christ, going so far even as to deny that Christ
Himself was crucified at all.[2] The true reason for selecting Friday,
as alleged by Mohammed himself, was, because the work of creation
ended on that day.[3]

Again, sensuality was preached, says Alvar,
because Christ preached chastity.

But Mohammed cannot fairly be said to have preached sensuality, though
his private life in this respect was by no means pure.

Gluttony was advocated instead of fasting. A more baseless charge was
never made; for how can it be contended that Christianity enjoins
fasting, while Islam disapproves of it, in the face of such texts
as Matthew ix.

The month of Ramadan shall ye fast." But Alvar goes on to make a more astonishing statement still:--"Christ
ordained that men should abstain from their wives during a fast, while Mohammed consecrated those days to
carnal pleasure." Christ surely gives us no such injunction, though St Paul does say something of the
kind. The Koran[6] explicitly says--"It is lawful for you on the night
of the fast to go in unto your wives; they are a garment unto you, and you are
a garment unto them."

We even find an incident recorded by an Arabian writer, where Yahya ibn Yahya, the famous faqui, imposed
a penance of a month's extra fast on Abdurrahman II. (822-852) for
violating the Prophet's ordinance, that wives should be abstained
from during the fasting month.[7] Alvar, being a layman, may perhaps
be supposed not to have studied Mohammedanism critically, and that
his zeal was not according to knowledge is perhaps the best explanation
of the matter.

In one place[8] he informs us of his intention of writing a book
on the Cobar,[9] but the work, if ever written, has not survived.

Nor is this much to be regretted, if we may judge by the wild remarks
he indulges in elsewhere[10] on this theme.

In that passage he seems to apply the obscure prophecy of Daniel[11]
to Mohammed, forgetting that verse 37 speaks of one who "shall regard
not the desire of women," a description hardly characteristic of Mohammed.

He identifies the God Maozim (Hebr.

Mauzim), which our revised version (v. 38) translates the "God of
fortresses" with the Mohammedan Cobar;[12] and the strange god, whom
he shall acknowledge, Alvar identifies with the devil which inspired
the Prophet in the guise of the angel Gabriel.

All this, as the writer himself allows, is very enigmatical.

[1] See Dozy, ii. 107.

[2] See Koran, cc. iii.

47; iv. 157; and Sale's notes.

[3] See Sale's note on Koran, c. lxii.

9.

[4] Cf. also Matt. xi.

[5] Chapter ii. 180.

[6] Chapter ii. 185. The Mohammedan fast is confined to the day time.

[7]
From Ibn Khallekan, apud Dozy, ii.

108.

[8]
"Ind. Lum.," sec. 25.

[9] I.e., the Caaba apparently.

[10] "Ind. Lum.," sec. 25, ff.

[11] C. xi. vv. 21, ff.

[12] ? Caaba.

Alvar does not scruple even to accuse the Moslems of idolatry, asserting
that the Arabian tribes worship their idol (the Caaba black stone[1])
as they used to do of yore, and that they set apart a holy month,
Al Mozem, in honour of this idol.[2]

Finally, Mohammed is spoken
of variously as the precursor of Antichrist,[3] or as Antichrist himself.[4]

Let
us now see how far we can gather the opinions of educated Moslems
with regard to Christian doctrine and worship.

If we find these to be no less one-sided and erroneous than the opinions of
Christians as to Mohammedanism, yet can we the more easily excuse
the Moslems, for the Koran itself, the very foundation and guide of
all their religious dogmas, is full of incorrect and inconsistent
notions on the subject.

The most important of these mistakes was that the Christians worshipped
a Trinity of Deities--God, Christ, Mary.[5] The inclusion of the Virgin
Mary into this Trinity was perhaps due to the fact that worship was
paid to her even at that early date, as it certainly is among the
Roman Catholics at this day.

As will have been seen from a passage quoted above,[6] something
very like adoration was already paid to the Virgin in the churches
of Spain.

[1] Sale, Introduction to Koran, p. 91.

[2] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," sec. 25.

[3] Ibid.,
sec. 21.

[4] Ibid., sec. 53.

[6] P. 56.

But the following extract from a treatise on Religions, by Ali ibn
Hazm,[1] the prime minister of Abdurrahman V. (Dec. 1023-March 1024),
will show that some educated Moslems knew enough of the Christian
creed to appreciate its difficulties:--"We need not be astonished,"
says Ibn Hazm, "at the superstition of men.

Look at the Christians! They are so numerous that God only knows their
numbers. They have among them men of great intelligence, and princes
of great ability. Nevertheless they believe that three is one, and one
is three; that one of the three is the Father, another the Son, another
the Spirit; that the Father is, and is not, the Son; that a man is,
and is not, God; that the Messiah is God in every respect, and yet
not the same as God; that He who has existed from all eternity has
been created.

"One of their sects, the members of which they call Jacobites, and
which number hundreds of thousands, believes even that the Creator
Himself was scourged, crucified, and put to death; so that the Universe
for three days was deprived of its Governor."

Another extract from an Arabic writer will show us what the Moslems
thought of the worship of St James, the patron saint of Spain, round
whose shrine rallied the religious revival in the north of the Peninsula.
It is Ibn Hayyan,[2] who, in his account of Almanzor's fiftieth expedition
against the Christians, says:--"Shant Yakoh (Santiago)[3] is one
of the sanctuaries most frequented, not only by the Christians of
Andalus, but of the neighbouring continent, who look upon its church
with a veneration such as Moslems entertain for the Caaba of Mecca;
for their Caaba is a colossal idol (statue) which stands in the middle
of the church.

They swear by it, and repair to it in pilgrimage from the most distant
parts, from Rome, as well as other countries beyond Rome, pretending that
the tomb to be seen in the church is that of Yakob (James), one of
the twelve apostles, and the most beloved by Isa (Jesus).--May the blessing
of God be on him, and on our Prophet!--The Christians call this Yakob
the brother of Jesus, because, while he lived, he was always with
him.

They say that he was Bishop of Jerusalem, and that he wandered over the
earth preaching the religion [of Christ], and calling upon the inhabitants
to embrace it, till he came to that remote corner of Andalus; that he
then returned to Syria, where he died at the age of 120 solar years.
They pretend likewise that, after the death of Yakob, his disciples carried his
body and buried it in that church, as the most remote part, where he had left traces
[of his preaching]."

[1]
II. 227, apud Dozy, iii.

342. Ibn Hazm was, says Dozy, "a strict Moslem,
averse to judging divine questions by human reasoning."

[2] Al Makkari, ii. 293.

[3] Miss Yonge, p. 87, says the Arabs called him Sham Yakub, but what
authority has this statement?

In a country where literature and the arts were so keenly cultivated,
as they were in Spain during the time of Arab domination, and where
the rivalry of Christian, Jew, and Moslem produced a sustained period
of intellectual activity such as the world has rarely seen, controversial
theology could not fail to have been largely developed.

But the books, if any were written, from
the Christian or Moslem standpoint, have all perished, and we have
only such slight and unsatisfactory notices left to us as those already
quoted.

In estimating, therefore, what influences the rival religions of Spain
had upon each other, we are driven to draw such inferences as we can
from the meagre hints furnished to us by the writers of the period;
from our knowledge of what Christianity was in Spain, and Mohammedanism
in Africa, before they were brought into contact in Andalusia, compared
with what they became after that contact had made itself felt; and from
the observed effects of such relations elsewhere. Upon a careful consideration
of these scattered hints we shall see that certain effects were visible,
which, had the amalgamation of the two peoples been allowed to continue
uninterruptedly for a longer period, and had there been no disturbing
element in the north of Spain and in Africa, would in all probability
have led to some marked modification in one or both religions, and
even to their nearer assimilation.

CHAPTER IX.

HERESIES IN SPAIN.

Such mixtures of religions are by no means without example in history.
The Sabians, for instance, were the followers of a religion, which may have
been a cross between Judaism, Christianity, and Magianism.[1] But Mohammedanism
itself has furnished the most marked instances of such amalgamation.

In Persia Islam combined with the
creed of Zoroaster to produce Babyism; while in India Hinduism and Mohammedanism,
fused together by the genius of Nanak Guru, have resulted in Sikhism.

It
may be said that Mohammedanism has been able to unite with Zoroastrianism
and Hinduism owing to their very dissimilarity with itself, whereas Christianity
is too near akin to Islam to combine with it in such a way as to produce
a religion like both, and yet different from either.[2] Christianity
and Mohammedanism, each have two cardinal doctrines (and two only)
which cannot be abrogated if they are to remain distinctive creeds.
In one of these, the unity of God, they agree. In the other they
do, and always must, differ. The divinity of Christ on the one side,
and the divine mission of Mohammed on the other, are totally incompatible
doctrines. If the one is true, the other cannot be so. Surrender
both, and the result is Judaism. No compromise would seem possible. Yet a compromise
was attempted, if we can credit a statement attributed by Dozy to Ibn Khaldun,[3]
in recounting the history of the successful rebel, Abdurrahman ibn
Merwan ibn Yunas, who during the last quarter of the ninth century, while
all Moslem Spain was a prey to the wildest anarchy, became a leader of the
renegade or Muwallad party in Merida and the neighbourhood. Thinking
to unite the Muwallads and Christians in one revolt, he preached to his
countrymen a new religion, which held a place halfway between Christianity
and Islam. This is all we are told of an endeavour, which might have
led to the most important consequences. That we hear no more of it is evidence
enough that the attempt proved abortive. The only other attempt,
if it can be called so, to combine Islam and Christianity has resulted
in that curious compound called the religion of the Druses.

[1] For an attempted compromise between Christianity and Brahmanism,
see the proceedings of Beschi, a Roman Catholic priest, "Education
and Missions," p. 14.

[2] Cp., however, the Druse religion.

[3] Dozy, ii. 184. Dozy adds that Abdurrahman was called the Galician
(el Jaliki) in consequence of this attempt of his: but there is some
error here, as Ibn Hayyan (see Al Makkari, ii.

439,
and De Gayangos' note) says he was called ibn ul'jaliki, i.e., of the stock of
the Galicians.

But though no religion, holding a position midway between Islam and
Christianity, arose in Spain, yet those religions could hardly fail
to undergo considerable modifications in themselves by reason of their
close contact for several centuries.

In respect to Christianity we shall naturally find the traces (if
any) of such modification in the so-called heresies which may have
arisen in Spain during this period.  Only, so far as he does see you--if you don't mind--he sees you as awful."

"'Awful'?"--she wanted it all.

"A regular bad one--though of course of a tremendously superior kind. Dreadful, delightful,
irresistible."

"Ah dear Jim!  I should like to know him.  I MUST."

"Yes, naturally.  But will it do?  You may, you know," Strether suggested, "disappoint him."

She was droll and humble about it.  "I can but try.  But my wickedness then," she went on,
"is my recommendation for him?"

"Your wickedness and the charms with which, in such a degree as yours, he associates it. FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 7: The word soma, observes Mgr. Capel, is never used in Greek
to express mere association or aggregation (Catholic, p. 13).]

[Footnote
8: From a Pastoral of the Swiss Bishops, which received the Pope's
approbation.]

CHAPTER VI.

THE POPE'S ORDINARY AUTHORITY.

1. When the Holy Father speaks ex cathedrâ, and defines any doctrine concerning
Faith or Morals, we are bound to receive his teaching with the assent
of divine faith: and cannot refuse obedience, without being guilty
of heresy.
It's an effect that a lifetime of Woollett has quite been observed as having; and I thus give
it to you, in Jim's view, for what it's worth.  Now his wife and his mother-in-law," Strether
continued to explain, "have, as in honour bound, no patience with such phenomena, late or early--which
puts Jim, as against his relatives, on the other side.  Besides," he added, "I don't think
he really wants Chad back. If Chad doesn't come--"

"He'll have"--Madame de Vionnet quite apprehended--"more of the free hand?"

"Well, Chad's the bigger man."

"So he'll work now, en dessous, to keep him quiet?"

"No--he won't 'work' at all, and he won't do anything en dessous. He's very decent and won't
be a traitor in the camp. The same committee acted as almoners at the time of Chicago's great fire,
and also when the Western woods fires caused such suffering.

Without boasting, for much more might have been done, the Boston Association
has no cause to be ashamed of its history. Beginning with all ready
to criticize, and many disapproving, the Association has worked itself
into the confidence of the community; and the Reverend Joseph Cook, who
was introduced as a lecturer to Boston under its auspices, thus speaks
of the Association at the close of its quarter-century.

He says:--

"First, That there is a vast amount of work which should be done for
young men in cities, and that, as the proportion of the American population
living in cities had increased since the opening of this century
from one twenty-fifth to one fifth, the importance is great and growing.

"Second,

That neither individual churches taken separately, nor individual denominations
taken separately, can do this work easily or adequately.

"Third, That all the evangelical denominations united in a city can
do this work easily by the organization of a Young Men's Christian
Association as their representative."

A short time ago a committee of conference, made up of eight leading
city clergymen and as many laymen, two of each denomination, unanimously
passed the following resolutions:--

"Resolved, That the great and peculiar dangers to which young men are
exposed in this, as in other cities, clearly calls, for the work of the
Young Men's Christian Association.

"Resolved, That the Association represents the Church working through
its young men for the redemption of young men, and, therefore, it
is entitled to the continued confidence, support, and co-operation
of the churches."

After long years of patient and steady work, the Boston Young Men's Christian
Association has secured the confidence of the Christian community
to the extent of more than $300,000, in the palpable form of stone
and brick, which beautifies one of the finest sites in our city.

It stands also as a monument of the liberality of Christian Boston and
her appreciation of this great work for young men in the Master's
name.

* * * * *

THE OHIO FLOODS.

BY THE HON. GEORGE E. JENKS.

Several causes are assigned for the excessive rise of water in the Ohio
valley. This water-shed is accredited with an area of two hundred thousand
square miles, and it lies upon the border-line of hot and cold temperatures.

It is subject to heavy storms, and sometimes, in winter, to large accumulations
of snow.

It is presumable also, the rainfall is greater than the average of the country.
When, following great deposits of snow, warm, heavy, and prolonged rains
occur, excessive floods must be the result.

Add to these coincidents the fact that forests, once existing, are
now so nearly annihilated that little protection is offered against
a rapid dissolution of the snow, and the sudden freezing of the earth
in an interval of the late storm preventing absorption of rain falling
thereafter.

The waters thus produced fall into the main streams without hindrance,
like rain from roofs of buildings.

An aggregation of waters in this valley, rising from fifty to seventy-one feet,
is of annual occurrence, intensified according to excesses and completeness
of coincidents.

The damage arising from the Ohio flood of 1882 has been estimated
at twelve millions of dollars; that of 1883 at thirty-five to forty
millions of dollars.

If these estimates are approximately correct, what must have been the damage from the flood of 1884!

There are other causes for the floods in the Ohio valley, and in all
Southern streams, that have been but little considered, which exercise
undoubted and immense influence in solving the peculiarities of the
question under consideration, and afford striking contrasts in different
sections of this country.

There are two water systems presented in North America. North of about
the forty-first degree of latitude probably the southern limit of
the once glacial region--a reservoir system prevails toward the headwaters
of all the streams. It includes New England, New York, Michigan, Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Dakota, and to the Rocky Mountains divide, and all of the
British Provinces to the Arctic Circle.
Whom has Miss Pocock met?"

He paused again, but he brought it out.  "Hasn't she met Chad?"

"Certainly--but not for the first time.  He's an old friend." At which Strether had a slow
amused significant headshake that made her go on: "You mean that for HER at least he's a new
person--that she sees him as different?"

"She sees him as different."

"And how does she see him?"

Strether gave it up.  "How can one tell how a deep little girl sees a deep young man?"

"Is every one so deep?  Is she too?"

"So it strikes me deeper than I thought.  But wait a little--between us we'll make it out.
You'll judge for that matter yourself."

Madame de Vionnet looked for the moment fairly bent on the chance. "Then she WILL come with
her?--I mean Mamie with Mrs. Pocock?"

"Certainly.  Her curiosity, if nothing else, will in any case work that.  But leave it all
to Chad."

"Ah," wailed Madame de Vionnet, turning away a little wearily, "the things I leave to Chad!"

The tone of it made him look at her with a kindness that showed his vision of her suspense.
But he fell back on his confidence. "Oh well--trust him.  Trust him all the way." He had indeed
no sooner so spoken than the queer displacement of his point of view appeared again to come
up for him in the very sound, which drew from him a short laugh, immediately checked.  He became
still more advisory. "When they do come give them plenty of Miss Jeanne.  Let Mamie see her well."

She looked for a moment as if she placed them face to face. "For Mamie to hate her?"

He had another of his corrective headshakes.  "Mamie won't. Trust THEM."

She looked at him hard, and then as if it were what she must always come back to:  "It's you
I trust.  But I was sincere," she said, "at the hotel.  I did, I do, want my child--"

"Well?"--Strether waited with deference while she appeared to hesitate as to how to put it.

"Well, to do what she can for me."

Strether for a little met her eyes on it; after which something that might have been unexpected
to her came from him.  "Poor little duck!"

Not more expected for himself indeed might well have been her echo of it.  "Poor little duck!
But she immensely wants herself," she said, "to see our friend's cousin."

"Is that what she thinks her?"

"It's what we call the young lady."

He thought again; then with a laugh:  "Well, your daughter will help you."

And now at last he took leave of her, as he had been intending for five minutes.  But she went
part of the way with him, accompanying him out of the room and into the next and the next.
Her noble old apartment offered a succession of three, the first two of which indeed, on entering,
smaller than the last, but each with its faded and formal air, enlarged the office of the antechamber
and enriched the sense of approach.  Strether fancied them, liked them, and, passing through
them with her more slowly now, met a sharp renewal of his original impression.  He stopped,
he looked back; the whole thing made a vista, which he found high melancholy and sweet--full,
once more, of dim historic shades, of the faint faraway cannon-roar of the great Empire. It
was doubtless half the projection of his mind, but his mind was a thing that, among old waxed
parquets, pale shades of pink and green, pseudo-classic candelabra, he had always needfully
to reckon with. They could easily make him irrelevant. The oddity, the originality, the poetry--he
didn't know what to call it--of Chad's connexion reaffirmed for him its romantic side. "They
ought to see this, you know.  They MUST."

"The Pococks?"--she looked about in deprecation; she seemed to see gaps he didn't.

"Mamie and Sarah--Mamie in particular."

"My shabby old place?  But THEIR things--!"

"Oh their things!  You were talking of what will do something for you--"

"So that it strikes you," she broke in, "that my poor place may? No one who really knows the whole South
could be guilty of such a mistake. The first difficulty is to determine the
limits of the South. The census classification of States is open to
objection. Delaware, Maryland, and West Virginia are included in the
South, and so is Kentucky. Missouri is excluded, but a place is made for
the new State of Oklahoma.

As to Delaware and Maryland, there may be a difference of opinion,
though it is difficult to justify the inclusion of the former.

West Virginia is certainly not Southern, socially, politically, or
economically.

Kentucky is doubtful, and it is difficult to see why Missouri should
be excluded from any list which includes Kentucky. Oklahoma is difficult
to classify. But, at any rate the South is a large country, with a great
variety of soil, climate, and population. As the crow flies, the distance
from Richmond to Memphis, in an adjoining State, is greater than
from Richmond to Bangor, Maine. From Richmond to Galveston is farther
than from Richmond to Omaha or Duluth.

Atlanta is usually considered to be far down in the South, and yet
the distance from Atlanta to Boston or Minneapolis is less than to
El Paso.

Again, New Orleans is nearer to Cincinnati than to Raleigh.

There were, moreover, many racial strains in the South.

The Scotch-Irish of the Piedmont in the Carolinas had, and have yet,
little in common with the French of Louisiana.

The lowlander of South Carolina and the hill men of Arkansas differed in more than
economic condition. Even in the same State, different sections were not
in entire accord. In Virginia and the Carolinas, for example, economic
conditions and traditions--and traditions are yet a power in the
South--differed greatly in different sections.

As the years passed, apathy began to disappear in some parts of the South. Wiser men recognized that the
old had gone never to return. Men began to face the inevitable. Instead
of brooding upon their grievances, they adjusted themselves, more
or less successfully, to the new economic and social order, and by
acting in harmony with it found that progress was not so impossible
as they had supposed.

White planters found that the net returns from their farms on which they
themselves had labored were greater than when a larger force of negroes
had been employed; shrewd men began to put their scanty savings together
to take advantage of convenient water power.

Securing
the bare necessities of life was no longer a difficult problem for
every one.

Men began to find pleasure in activity rather than in mere passivity
or obstruction.

Somehow, somewhere, sometime, a new hopefulness was born and this new
spirit--evidence of new life--became embodied in "the New South." The
expression is said to have been used first by General Adam Badeau
when stationed in South Carolina, but the New South of which he spoke
was not the New South as it is understood today.

Many others have used the term loosely to signify any change in economic or social conditions which
they had discovered. The first man to use the expression in a way which sent it vibrating through
the whole nation was Henry W. Grady, the gifted editor of the Atlanta Constitution. In a speech
made in 1886 by invitation of the New England Society of New York
City, he took for his theme "the New South" and delivered an oration
which, judged by its effects, had some of the marks of greatness.

He went on, however, to express the feeling that the outcome had
been for the best, and painted a picture of the new spirit of the
South, a trifle enthusiastic perhaps, but still recognizable.

Today a New South may be said to be everywhere apparent.

The Old South still exists in nooks and corners of many States, it is true:
there are communities, counties, groups of counties, which cling to the old
ideas. In the hearts of thousands of men and women the Old South is enshrined,
and there is no room for the new; but the South as a whole is a New South,
marked by a spirit of hopefulness, a belief in the future, and a desire
to take a fuller part in the life of the nation.

To trace the development of the new spirit and to discuss its manifestations
is the purpose of this book.

CHAPTER II

THE CONFEDERATE SOLDIER TAKES CHARGE

As the year 1877 was beginning, the carpetbag governments in nine of the
Southern States had been already overthrown. In two other States were
two sets of officers, one of which represented the great mass of
the whites while the other was based upon negro suffrage and was
supported by Federal bayonets.

Both sides seemed determined, and trouble was expected. The Republican
contestants in Florida had already yielded to a decision of the Supreme Court
of the State, but in South Carolina and Louisiana the Republican
claimants held on until the orders to withdraw the troops were given
in April, 1877.

The withdrawal of the troops marked the definite end of Reconstruction. The Democratic claimants then took
undisputed possession of the executive and legislative departments of
these States. The native whites were again in entire charge of all the
States which had seceded.

They now had the task of rebuilding the commonwealths shattered
by war and by the aftermath of war. A new era for the South had dawned,
and here properly begins the history of the New South.

The first and most important problem, as the white South saw it, was the maintenance of white supremacy
which had been gained with so much difficulty. In only three States--South Carolina,
Mississippi, and Louisiana--were there negro majorities. Obviously,
if the whites could be induced or coerced to stand together, they
could continue to control the governments in eight of the seceding States.
The negro population, however, was not distributed uniformly over
any of these States, so that, no matter how great the white preponderance
in the State as a whole, there were counties or other civil divisions
where negroes were in the majority.

This meant that the issue of white supremacy was present in every State,
for the negro majorities in such counties could elect the local officers
and control the local governments.

To attain a political consolidation of the white population all other issues must be subordinated.
Differences of opinion and judgment must be held in abeyance. No question
upon which white men might seriously disagree must be placed in
the party platform, if any way to avoid such insertion could be found.

If by any chance the majority adopted a course obnoxious to the minority,
the decision must be accepted loyally if not cheerfully, and the full white
vote must be cast. Objection to a candidate or measure must not be expressed
at the ballot box.

Personal ambition must be restrained, and weakness and even unfitness in a candidate
must be overlooked for the sake of white solidarity.

The task of creating a permanently solid South was not easy. The Southerner
had always been an individualist, freely exercising his right to vote independently, engaging in sharp
political contests before 1861, and even during the War. The Confederate
Congress wrangled impotently while Grant was thundering at the gates
of Richmond.

So strong was the memory of past differences, that old party designations were avoided. The political organization
to which allegiance was demanded was generally called the Conservative party, and the Republican party
was universally called the Radical party. The term Conservative
was adopted partly as a contrast, partly because the peace party
had been so called during the War, and especially because the name
Democrat was obnoxious to so many old Whigs.

It was not until 1906 that the term Conservative was officially dropped from the title of the dominant
party in Alabama.

It is not surprising that men continued to turn for leadership to those
who had led in battle and, to a less extent, to those who had taken
part in the civil government of the Confederacy.

But for the humiliations of Reconstruction, some of these men might have been discredited, but the bitter
experiences of those years had restored them to popular favor. As the Federal soldier
marched out of the public buildings everywhere, the Confederate soldier marched
in.

These men had led in the contest against the scalawags and the carpetbaggers and many had suffered thereby.
Now they came into their own. In some States the organization of voters was almost military.

During the first years after the downfall of the Reconstruction governments the task of consolidating
the white South was measurably achieved. As some one flippantly put the case, there came to
be in many sections "two kinds of people--Democrats and negroes." It was the general feeling on the
part of the whites that to fail to vote was shameful, to scratch
a ticket was a crime, and to attempt to organize the negroes was treason
to one's race.

The "Confederate brigadier" sounded the rallying cry at every election, and a military record came
to be almost a requisite for political preferment. Men's eyes were turned
to the past, and on every stump were recounted again and again the
horrors of Reconstruction and the valiant deeds of the Confederate soldiers.
What a candidate had done in the past in another field seemed more
important even than his actual qualifications for the office to which
he aspired.

A study of the Congressional Record or of lists of state officers proves the
truth of this statement. In 1882, fourteen of the twenty-two United
States Senators from the seceding States had military records and
three had been civil officers of the Confederacy.

Several States had solid delegations of ex-Confederate soldiers in both
houses. When one reads the proceedings of Congress, he finds the names
of Vance and Ransom, Hampton and Butler, Gordon and Wheeler, Harris
and Bate, Cockrell and Vest, Walthall and Colquitt, Morgan and Gibson,
and dozens of other Confederate officers.

The process of unifying the white South was not universally successful, however.
Here and there were Republican islands in a Democratic or Conservative
sea.

The largest and most important exception was the Appalachian South, divided among eight different States.
It is a large region, to this day thinly populated and lacking in means of
communication with the outside world. Though it has some bustling cities, thriving towns,
and prosperous communities, the Appalachian South today is predominantly
rural.

In the
216 counties in this region or its foothills, there were in 1910 only 43
towns with more than 2500 inhabitants.

This Appalachian region had been settled by emigrants from the lowlands. Some of them were
of the thriftless sort who were forced from the better lands in the
East by the inexorable working of economic law.

By far the greater part, however, were of the same stock as the restless pioneers
who poured over the mountains to flood the Mississippi Valley. Students of
the mountain people maintain that so small an accident as the breaking of
a linchpin fixed one family forever in a mountain cove, while relatives
went on to become the builders of new States in the interior. Cut off
from the world in these mountains, there have been preserved to this
day many of the idioms, folksongs, superstitions, manners, customs,
and habits of mind of Stuart England, as they were brought over by
the early colonists.

The steep farms afforded a scanty living, and though the cattle found
luscious pasturage during the summer, they were half starved during the
winter. If by chance the mountaineers had a surplus of any product,
there was no one to whom they might sell it. They lived almost without
the convenience of coinage as a means of exchange.

Naturally in such a society there was no place for slaves, and to this
day negroes are not welcome in many mountain counties. But though these mountain
people have missed contact with the outside world and have been deprived
of the stimulus of new ideas, they seldom give evidence of anything
that can fairly be classed as degeneracy. Ignorance, illiteracy, and
suspended or arrested development the traveler of today will find among them, and
actions which will shock his present-day standards; but these same actions
would hardly have shocked his own father's great-grandfather. These
isolated mountaineers have been aptly called "our contemporary ancestors."

The

same people, it is true, had poured out of their cabins to meet Ferguson at King's
Mountain; they had followed Jackson to New Orleans and to Florida and they had felt
the influence of the wave of nationalism which swept the country after the War
of 1812. But back to their mountains they had gone, and the great current
of national progress swept by them.

The movement toward sectionalism, which developed after the Missouri
Compromise, had left them cold. So the mountaineers held to the Union.
They did not volunteer freely for the Confederacy, and they resisted
conscription.

How many were enlisted in the Union armies it is difficult to discover, certainly over 100,000.
It is not surprising, therefore, that these people became Republicans
and have so continued in their allegiance.

Another element in the population having great influence in the South--in
North Carolina, at least--was the Society of Friends.

It was strong in both the central and the eastern sections. Many, but by no
means all, of the Quakers opposed the Civil War and, after peace came,
opposed the men who had been prominent in the War, that is, the dominant
party.

In spite of the social stigma attaching to Republicanism, many
of the Quakers have persisted in their membership in that party to the
present day. In all the seceding States there was a Union element in 1861,
and, while most of the men composing it finally went into the War with zeal, there
were individuals who resisted stoutly During the War they were abused
without stint, but this criticism had only the effect of making them
more stubborn.

They naturally became Republicans after the War and furnished some of the votes which made Reconstruction
possible. With these may be classed the few Northern men who remained in
the South after the downfall of the Reconstruction governments.

There was another class of people in the South, some of whom had been
rabid secessionists and whose Republicanism had no other foundation
than a desire for the loaves and fishes.

The salaries attached to some of the Federal offices seemed enormous at that time and, before the
prohibition wave swept the South, there were in the revenue service
thousands of minor appointments for the faithful. These deputy marshals,
"storekeepers and gaugers," and petty postmasters attempted to keep
up a local organization.

The collectors of internal revenue, United States marshals, other officers of
the Federal courts, and the postmasters in the larger towns controlled these
men and therefore the state organizations.

These Federal officials broke the unanimity of the white South, and they were supported by thousands
of negroes.

Some individuals among them were shrewd politicians, but the contest was
unequal from the beginning. On one side was intelligence, backed by loyal
followers fiercely determined to rule.

On the other was a leadership on the whole less intelligent, certainly more
selfish, with followers who were ignorant and susceptible to cajolery
or intimidation.

Before the downfall of the Reconstruction governments, and in the
first few years afterward, there was much intimidation of negroes
who wished to vote.

Threats of loss of employment, eviction from house or plantation, or
refusal of credit were frequent. In many sections such measures were
enough, and Democrats were ordinarily chosen at the polls.

Where the negroes were in a larger majority, stronger measures were
adopted. Around election time armed bands of whites would sometimes
patrol the roads wearing some special badge or garment.

Men would gallop past the houses of negroes at night, firing guns or pistols into the air and occasionally
into the roofs of the houses. Negroes talking politics were occasionally visited and
warned--sometimes with physical violence--to keep silent. On election day
determined men with rifles or shotguns, ostensibly intending to
go hunting after they had voted, gathered around the polls.

An occasional random shot might kick up the dust near an approaching
negro.

Men actually or apparently the worse for liquor might stagger around, seeking
an excuse for a fight.



"Still--it simplifies."

"It simplifies"--he fully concurred.  "But that's precisely where we are.  It marks a stage
in his relation.  The act is his answer to Mrs. Newsome's demonstration."

"It tells," Maria asked, "the worst?"

"The worst."

"But is the worst what he wants Sarah to know?"

"He doesn't care for Sarah."

At which Miss Gostrey's eyebrows went up.  "You mean she has already dished herself?"

Strether took a turn about; he had thought it out again and again before this, to the end;
but the vista seemed each time longer.  "He wants his good friend to know the best.  I mean
the measure of his attachment.  She asked for a sign, and he thought of that one.  There it is."

"A concession to her jealousy?"

Strether pulled up.  "Yes--call it that.  Make it lurid--for that makes my problem richer."

"Certainly, let us have it lurid--for I quite agree with you that we want none of our problems
poor.  But let us also have it clear. Can he, in the midst of such a preoccupation, or on the
heels of it, have seriously cared for Jeanne?--cared, I mean, as a young man at liberty would
have cared?"

Well, Strether had mastered it.  "I think he can have thought it would be charming if he COULD
care.  It would be nicer."

"Nicer than being tied up to Marie?"

"Yes--than the discomfort of an attachment to a person he can never hope, short of a catastrophe,
to marry.  And he was quite right," said Strether.  "It would certainly have been nicer.  Even
when a thing's already nice there mostly is some other thing that would have been nicer--or
as to which we wonder if it wouldn't.  But his question was all the same a dream.  He COULDn't
care in that way.  He IS tied up to Marie.  The relation is too special and has gone too far. The middle movements,
a Scherzo and an Andante, do not rise to the dignity of a sonata,
and, moreover, lack distinction, especially the slow movement, a nocturne-like
dialogue between the two instruments. As to the beauties--such as the
first subject of the first movement (at the entrance of the violoncello),
the opening bars of the Scherzo, part of the ANDANTE, &c.--they are
merely beginnings, springs that lose themselves soon in a sandy waste.

Hence I have not the heart to controvert Moscheles who, in his diary, says some cutting things about this
work: "In composition Chopin proves that he has only isolated happy
thoughts which he does not know how to work up into a rounded whole.

In the just published sonata with violoncello I find often passages which sound as if someone
were preluding on the piano and knocked at all the keys to learn
whether euphony was at home."

[FOOTNOTE:
Aus Moscheles' Leben; Vol. II., p. 171.] An entry of the year 1850
runs as follows: "But a trial of patience of another kind is imposed on me
by Chopin's Violoncello Sonata, which I am arranging for four hands.

To me it is a tangled forest, through which now and then penetrates a gleam
of the sun." [FOOTNOTE: Ibid., Vol.

II., p. 216.] To take up after the last-discussed work a composition
like the Grand Duo Concertant for piano and violoncello, on themes
from "Robert le Diable," by Chopin and A. Franchomme, is quite a relief,
although it is really of no artistic importance.

Schumann is right when he says of this DUO, which saw the light of
publicity (without OPUS number) in 1833:14 [FOOTNOTE: The first performance
of Meyerbeer's "Robert le Diable" took place at the Paris Opera on
November 21, 1831.] "A piece for a SALON where behind the shoulders
of counts and countesses now and then rises the head of a celebrated
artist."

And he may also be right when he says:--

It seems to me that Chopin sketched the whole of it, and that Franchomme
said "yes" to everything; for what Chopin touches takes his form and
spirit, and in this minor salon-style he expresses himself with grace
and distinction, compared with which all the gentility of other brilliant
composers together with all their elegance vanish into thin air.

The mention of the DUO is somewhat out of place here, but the Sonata, Op. 65, in
which the violoncello is employed, naturally suggested it.

We have only one more work to consider before we come to the groups of masterpieces
in the smaller forms above enumerated.

But this last work is one of Chopin's best compositions, and in its
way no less a masterpiece than these. Unfettered by the scheme of a
definite form such as the sonata or concerto, the composer develops
in the Fantaisie, Op.

49 (published in November, 1841), his thought with masterly freedom.
There is an enthralling weirdness about this work, a weirdness made
up of force of passion and an indescribable fantastic waywardness.

Nothing more common than the name of Fantasia, here we have the thing! The music
falls on our ears like the insuppressible outpouring of a being stirred to
its heart's core, and full of immeasurable love and longing.

Who would suspect the composer's fragility and sickliness in this work?
Does it not rather suggest a Titan in commotion? There was a time when
I spoke of the Fantasia in a less complimentary tone, now I bow down my
head regretfully and exclaim peccavi. The disposition of the composition
may be thus briefly indicated.

A tempo di marcia opens the Fantasia--it forms the porch of the edifice.
The dreamy triplet passages of the poco a poco piu mosso are comparable
to galleries that connect the various blocks of buildings.

The principal subject, or accumulation of themes, recurs again and
again in different keys, whilst other subjects appear only once or
twice between the repetitions of the principal subject.

The mazurkas of Chopin are a literature in themselves, said Lenz, and there
is some truth in his saying. They may, indeed, be called a literature in
themselves for two reasons--first, because of their originality,
which makes them things sui generis; and secondly, because of the
poetical and musical wealth of their contents.

Chopin, as I have already said, is most national in the mazurkas
and polonaises, for the former of which he draws not only inspiration,
but even rhythmic, melodic, and harmonic motives from his country's
folk-music.

Liszt told me, in a conversation I had with him, that he did not care much
for Chopin's mazurkas.

"One often meets in them with bars which might just as well be in
another place." But he added, "And yet as Chopin puts them, perhaps
nobody else could have put them."

And mark, those are the words of one who also told me that when he
sometimes played half-an-hour for his amusement, he liked to resort
to Chopin. Moscheles, I suspect, had especially the mazurkas in his mind when,
in 1833, [FOOTNOTE: At this time the published compositions of Chopin
were, of course, not numerous, but they included the first two books
of Mazurkas, Op. 6 and 7.] he said of the Polish master's compositions
that he found "much charm in their originality and national colouring,"
and that "his thoughts and through them the fingers stumbled over
certain hard, inartistic modulations."

Startling progressions, unreconciled contrasts, and abrupt changes of mood
are characteristic of Slavonic music and expressive of the Slavonic
character.

Whether they ought to be called inartistic or not, we will leave
time to decide, if it has not done so already; the Russian and other
Slavonic composers, who are now coming more and more to the front,
seem to be little in doubt as to their legitimacy.

I neither regard Chopin's mazurkas as his most artistic achievements nor recommend
their capriciousness and fragmentariness for general imitation. But if
we view them from the right stand-point, which is not that of classicism,
we cannot help admiring them.

The musical idiom which the composer uses in these, notwithstanding
their capriciousness and fragmentariness, exquisitely-finished miniatures,
has a truly delightful piquancy. Yet delightful as their language is,
the mazurkas have a far higher claim to our admiration.

They are poems--social poems, poems of private life, in distinction
from the polonaises, which are political poems. Although Chopin's
mazurkas and polonaises are no less individual than the other compositions
of this most subjective of subjective poets, they incorporate, nevertheless,
a good deal of the poetry of which the national dances of those names
are the expression or vehicle.

And let it be noted, in Poland so-called civilisation did not do its work so fast and effectually
as in Western Europe; there dancing had not yet become in Chopin's days
a merely formal and conventional affair, a matter of sinew and muscle.

It
is, therefore, advisable that we should make ourselves acquainted with the
principal Polish dances; such an acquaintance, moreover, will not only
help us to interpret aright Chopin's mazurkas and polonaises, but
also to gain a deeper insight into his ways of feeling and seeing generally.
Now the reader will become aware that the long disquisitions on Poland
and the Poles at the commencement of this biography were not superfluous
accessories.

For completeness' sake I shall preface the description of the mazurka
by a short one of the krakowiak, the third of the triad of principal Polish
dances.

The informants on whom I shall chiefly rely when I am not guided by
my own observations are the musician Sowinski and the poet Brodzinski, both
Poles:

The krakowiak [says Albert Sowinski in chant polonais] bubbles over
with esprit and gaiety; its name indicates its origin.

It is the delight of the salons, and especially of the huts. The Cracovians
dance it in a very agitated and expressive manner, singing at the
same time words made for the occasion of which they multiply the stanzas
and which they often improvise.

These words are of an easy gaiety which remind one strangely of the rather loose [semi-grivoises]
songs so popular in France; others again are connected with the glorious epochs of history, with
the sweet or sad memories which it calls up, and are a faithful expression of the character and manners
of the nation.

Casimir Brodzinski describes the dance as follows:--

The krakowiak resembles in its figures a simplified polonaise; it
represents, compared with the latter, a less advanced social state.

The boldest and strongest takes the position of leader and conducts
the dance; he sings, the others join in chorus; he dances, they imitate
him. Often also the krakowiak represents, in a kind of little ballet, the simple
course of a love-affair: one sees a couple of young people place themselves
before the orchestra; the young man looks proud, presumptuous, preoccupied
with his costume and beauty. Before long he becomes meditative, and
seeks inspiration to improvise verses which the cries of his companions
ask for, and which the time beaten by them provoke, as well as the
manoeuvre of the young girl, who is impatient to dance.

Arriving
before the orchestra after making a round, the dancer generally takes
the liberty of singing a refrain which makes the young girl blush; she runs
away, and it is in pursuing her that the young man displays all his
agility.

At the last round it is the young man who pretends to run away from his
partner; she tries to seize his arm, after which they dance together
until the ritornello puts an end to their pleasure.

14, entitled Krakowiak, Grand Rondeau de Concert, a composition
which was discussed in Chapter VIII. Thus much of the krakowiak; now to the
more interesting second of the triad.

The mazurek [or mazurka], whose name comes from Mazovia, one of our
finest provinces, is the most characteristic dance-tune --it is the
model of all our new tunes.

One distinguishes, however, these latter easily from the ancient ones on account
of their less original and less cantabile form. There are two kinds of
mazureks: one, of which the first portion is always in minor and the
second in major, has a romance-like colouring, it is made to be sung,
in Polish one says "to be heard"

(do sludninin); the other serves as an accompaniment to a dance, of
which the figures arc multiplied passes and coiuluiles. Its movement is in
time, and yet less quick than the waltz. The motive is in dotted
notes, which must be executed with energy and warmth, but not without
a certain dignity.

Now the mazurka is generally written in 3/4-time; Chopin's are all written thus. The dotted rhythmical motive
alluded to by Sowinski is this, or similar to this--

[Another rhythm diagram: 1/8 dot 1/16 1/4 1/4 | 1/8 dot 1/16 1/2]

But the dotted notes are by no means de rigueur. As motives like the following--

[Another
rhythm diagram: 1/4 1/2 | 1/8 1/8 1/4 1/4 | triplet 1/4 1/4 | triple
1/8 1/8 1/8 1/8]

are of frequent occurrence, I would propose a more
comprehensive definition--namely, that the first part of the bar consists
mostly of quicker notes than the latter part.

But even this more comprehensive definition does not comprehend all; it is a rule which has many exceptions.
[FOOTNOTE: See the musical illustrations on pp. 217-218.] Le Sowinski mentions only one classification
of mazurkas. Several others, however, exist. First, according to the district from which they derive--mazurkas
of Kujavia, of Podlachia, of Lublin, &c.; or, secondly, according
to their character, or to the purpose or occasion for which they were
composed: wedding, village, historical, martial, and political mazurkas.
And now let us hear what the poet Brodzinski has to say about the
nature of this dance:-

The mazurek in its primitive form and as the
common people dance is only a kind of krakowiak, only less lively
and less sautillant.

The agile
Cracovians and the mountaineers of the Carpathians call the mazurek danced
by the inhabitants of the plain but a dwarfed krakowiak. The proximity
of the Germans, or rather the sojourn of the German troops, has caused the
true character of the mazurek among the people to be lost; this dance
hap become a kind of awkward waltz.

With the people of the capital the real dances of the country are
disfigured not only by the influx of foreigners, but especially also
by the unfortunate employment of barrel- organs....It is this instrument
which crushes among the people the practice of music, and takes the
means of subsistence from the village fiddler, who becomes more and
more rare since every tavern-keeper, in buying a barrel-organ, easily
puts an end to all competition.

We see already more and more disappear from our country sides these sweet songs
and improvised refrains which the rustic minstrels remembered and
repeated, and the truly national music gives way, alas! to the themes
borrowed from the operas most in vogue.

The mazurek, thus degenerated among the people, has been adopted by the
upper classes who, in preserving the national allures, perfected
it to the extent of rendering it, beyond doubt, one of the most graceful
dances in Europe.

This dance has much resemblance with the French quadrille, according
to what is analogous in the characters of the two nations; in seeing these
two dances one might say that a French woman dances only to please,
and that a Polish woman pleases by abandoning herself to a kind of
maiden gaiety--the graces which she displays come rather from nature
than from art.

A French female dancer recalls the ideal of Greek statues; a Polish
female dancer has something which recalls the shepherdesses created
by the imagination of the poets; if the former charms us, the latter attaches
us.

As modern dances lend themselves especially to the triumph of the
women, because the costume of the men is so little favourable, it is
noteworthy that the mazurek forms here an exception; for a young man,
and especially a young Pole, remarkable by a certain amiable boldness,
becomes soon the soul and hero of this dance.

A light and in some sort pastoral dress for the women, and the Polish
military costume so advantageous for the men, add to the charm of the picture
which the mazurek presents to the eye of the painter. This dance permits
to the whole body the most lively and varied movements, leaves the
shoulders full liberty to bend with that ABANDON which, accompanied
by a joyous laisser-aller and a certain movement of the foot striking
the floor, is exceedingly graceful.

One finds often a magic effect in the animated enthusiasm which characterises
the different movements of the head--now proudly erect, now tenderly
sunk on the bosom, now lightly inclined towards the shoulder, and
always depicting in large traits the abundance of life and joy, shaded
with simple, graceful, and delicate sentiments.

Seeing in the mazurek the female dancer almost carried away in the arms and on the shoulders of her cavalier,
abandoning herself entirely to his guidance, one thinks one sees two beings
intoxicated with happiness and flying towards the celestial regions.

The female dancer, lightly dressed, scarcely skimming the earth with her dainty foot, holding on by the hand
of her partner, in the twinkling of an eye carried away by several others,
and then, like lightning, precipitating herself again into the arms of
the first, offers the image of the most happy and delightful creature.

The music
of the mazurek is altogether national and original; through its gaiety
breathes usually something of melancholy--one might say that it is destined
to direct the steps of lovers, whose passing sorrows are not without
charm.

Chopin
himself published forty-one mazurkas of his composition in eleven
sets of four, five, or three numbers--Op. 6, Quatre Mazurkas, and
Op. 7, Cinq Mazurkas, in December, 1832; Op. 17, Quatre Mazurkas, in May,
1834; Op. 24, Quatre Mazurkas, in November, 1835; Op.

30, Quatre Maazurkas, in December, 1837; Op. 33, Quatre Mazurkas, in
October, 1838; Op. 41, Quatre Mazurkas, in December, 1840; Op. 50, Trois
Mazurkas, in November, 1841; Op, 56, Trois Mazurkas, in August, 1844;
Op. 59, Trois Mazurkas, in April, 1846; and Op. 63, Trois Mazurkas,
in September, 1847.

In tne posthumous works published by Fontana there are two more sets,
each of four numbers, and respectively marked as Op. 67 and 68. Lastly,
several other mazurkas composed by or attributed to Chopin have been published
without any opus number.

Two mazurkas, both in A minor, although very feeble compositions, are included in the
editions by Klindworth and Mikuli. The Breitkopf and Hartel edition, which
includes only one of these two mazurkas, comprises further a mazurka
in G major and one in B flat major of 1825, one in D major of 1829-30,
a remodelling of the same of 1832--these have already been discussed--and
a somewhat more interesting one in C major of 1833.

Of one of the two mazurkas in A minor, a poor thing and for the most part
little Chopinesque, only the dedication (a son ami Rmile Gaillard)
is known, but not the date of composition.

The other (the one not included in Breitkopf and Hartel's, No. 50 of Mikuli's
and Klindworth's edition) appeared first as No. 2 of Noire Temps,
a publication by Schott's Sohne.

On inquiry I learned that Notre Temps was the general title of a
series of 12 pieces by Czerny, Chopin, Kalliwoda, Rosenhain, Thalberg,
Kalkbrenner, Mendelssohn, Bertini, Wolff, Kontski, Osborne, and Herz,
which appeared in 1842 or 1843 as a Christmas Album.

[FOONOTE: I find, however, that Chopin's Mazurka was already separately announced as "Notre Temps, No. 2,"
in the Monatsberichte of February, 1842.] Whether a Mazurka elegante
by Fr, Chopin, advertised in La France Musicale of April 6, 1845, as en
vente au Bureau de musique, 29, Place de la Bourse, is identical with
one of the above-enumerated mazurkas I have not been able to discover.

In the
Klindworth edition [FOOTNOTE: That is to say, in the original Russian, not
in the English (Augener and Co.'s) edition; and there only by the
desire of the publishers and against the better judgment of the editor.]
is also to be found a very un-Chopinesque Mazurka in F sharp major,
previously published by J. P. Gotthard, in Vienna, the authorship
of which Mr. E. Pauer has shown to belong to Charles Mayer.

[FOOTNOTE: In an article, entitled Musical Plagiarism in the Monthly
Musical Record of July 1, 1882 (where also the mazurka in question
is reprinted), we read as follows:--"In 1877 Mr. E. Pauer, whilst
preparing a comprehensive guide through the entire literature of the
piano, looked through many thousand pieces for that instrument published
by German firms, and came across a mazurka by Charles Mayer, published
by Pietro Mechetti (afterwards C. A. Spinal, and entitled Souvenirs
de la Pologne.

A few weeks later a mazurka, a posthumous work of F. Chopin, published
by J. Gotthard, came into his hands. At first, although the piece 'struck
him as being an old acquaintance,' he could not fix the time when
and the place where he had heard it; but at last the Mayer mazurka
mentioned above returned to his remembrance, and on comparing the
two, he found that they were one and the same piece.

From the appearance of the title-page and the size of the notes,
Mr. Pauer, who has had considerable experience in these matters, concluded
that the Mayer copy must have been published between the years 1840
and 1845, and wrote to Mr. Gotthard pointing out the similarity of
Chopin's posthumous work, and asking how he came into possession of
the Chopin manuscript.

Mr. Gotthard replied,'that he had bought the mazurka as Chopin's
autograph from a Polish countess, who, being in sad distress, parted,
though with the greatest sorrow, with the composition of her illustrious compatriot.'
Mr. Pauer naturally concludes that Mr. Gotthard had been deceived, that the
manuscript was not a genuine autograph, and 'that the honour of having
composed the mazurka in question belongs to Charles Mayer.' Mr. Pauer further
adds: 'It is not likely that C. Mayer, even if Chopin had made him
a present of this mazurka, would have published it during Chopin's lifetime
as a work of his own, or have sold or given it to the Polish countess.
It is much more likely that Mayer's mazurka was copied in the style
of Chopin's handwriting, and after Mayer's death in 1862 sold as Chopin's
autograph to Mr. Gotthard.'"]

Surveying the mazurkas in their totality,
we cannot but notice that there is a marked difference between those
up to and those above Op.

41. In the later ones we look in vain for the beautes sauvages which
charm us in the earlier ones--they strike us rather by their propriety of
manner and scholarly elaboration; in short, they have more of reflective
composition and less of spontaneous effusion about them. This, however,
must not be taken too literally. There are exceptions, partial and total.
The "native wood-notes wild" make themselves often heard, only they
are almost as often stifled in the close air of the study.

Strange to say, the last opus (63) of mazurkas published by Chopin has
again something of the early freshness and poetry. Schumann spoke truly when he said
that some poetical trait, something new, was to be found in every one of Chopin's
mazurkas. They are indeed teeming with interesting matter. The second
mazurka might be called "the request." All the arts of persuasion are
tried, from the pathetic to the playful, and a vein of longing, not unmixed
with sadness, runs through the whole, or rather forms the basis of
it.

The tender commencement of the second part is followed, as it were, by the several times repeated questions--Yes?
No? (Bright sunshine? Dark clouds?) But there comes no answer, and the poor
wretch has to begin anew. A helpless, questioning uncertainty and indecision
characterise the third mazurka. For a while the composer gives way (at
the beginning of the second part) to anger, and speaks in a defiant
tone; but, as if perceiving the unprofitableness of it, returns soon
to his first strain.

Syncopations, suspensions, and chromatic passing notes form here the composer's chief stock in trade,
displacement of everything in melody, harmony, and rhythm is the rule.
Nobody did anything like this before Chopin, and, as far as I know,
nobody has given to the world an equally minute and distinct representation
of the same intimate emotional experiences.

My last remarks hold good with the fourth mazurka, which is bleak
and joyless till, with the entrance of A major, a fairer prospect opens.
But those jarring tones that strike in wake the dreamer pitilessly. The
commencement of the mazurka, as well as the close on the chord of the
sixth, the chromatic glidings of the harmonies, the strange twirls
and skips, give a weird character to this piece.

The origin of the polonaise (Taniec Polski, Polish dance), like that of
the, no doubt, older mazurka, is lost in the dim past. For much credit
can hardly be given to the popular belief that it developed out of
the measured procession, to the sound of music, of the nobles and
their ladies, which is said to have first taken place in 1574, the
year after his election to the Polish throne, when Henry of Anjou
received the grandees of his realm.

The ancient polonaises were without words, and thus they were still in
the time of King Sobieski (1674-96).
  The present
evening had a different stamp; if the company was much more numerous, so, inevitably, were
the ideas set in motion.  It was on the other hand, however, now strongly marked that the talkers
moved, in respect to such matters, round an inner, a protected circle. They knew at any rate
what really concerned them to-night, and Strether had begun by keeping his companion close
to it. Only a few of Chad's guests had dined--that is fifteen or twenty, a few compared with
the large concourse offered to sight by eleven o'clock; but number and mass, quantity and quality,
light, fragrance, sound, the overflow of hospitality meeting the high tide of response, had
all from the first pressed upon Strether's consciousness, and he felt himself somehow part
and parcel of the most festive scene, as the term was, in which he had ever in his life been
engaged.  He had perhaps seen, on Fourths of July and on dear old domestic Commencements, more
people assembled, but he had never seen so many in proportion to the space, or had at all events
never known so great a promiscuity to show so markedly as picked. Numerous as was the company,
it had still been made so by selection, and what was above all rare for Strether was that,
by no fault of his own, he was in the secret of the principle that had worked.  He hadn't enquired,
he had averted his head, but Chad had put him a pair of questions that themselves smoothed
the ground. He hadn't answered the questions, he had replied that they were the young man's
own affair; and he had then seen perfectly that the latter's direction was already settled.

Chad had applied for counsel only by way of intimating that he knew what to do; and he had
clearly never known it better than in now presenting to his sister the whole circle of his
society.  This was all in the sense and the spirit of the note struck by him on that lady's
arrival; he had taken at the station itself a line that led him without a break, and that enabled
him to lead the Pococks--though dazed a little, no doubt, breathless, no doubt, and bewildered--to
the uttermost end of the passage accepted by them perforce as pleasant.  He had made it for
them violently pleasant and mercilessly full; the upshot of which was, to Strether's vision,
that they had come all the way without discovering it to be really no passage at all.  It was
a brave blind alley, where to pass was impossible and where, unless they stuck fast, they would
have--which was always awkward--publicly to back out.  They were touching bottom assuredly
tonight; the whole scene represented the terminus of the cul-de-sac.  So could things go when
there was a hand to keep them consistent--a hand that pulled the wire with a skill at which
the elder man more and more marvelled.  The elder man felt responsible, but he also felt successful,
since what had taken place was simply the issue of his own contention, six weeks before, that
they properly should wait to see what their friends would have really to say.  He had determined
Chad to wait, he had determined him to see; he was therefore not to quarrel with the time given
up to the business.  As much as ever, accordingly, now that a fortnight had elapsed, the situation
created for Sarah, and against which she had raised no protest, was that of her having accommodated
herself to her adventure as to a pleasure-party surrendered perhaps even somewhat in excess
to bustle and to "pace." If her brother had been at any point the least bit open to criticism
it might have been on the ground of his spicing the draught too highly and pouring the cup
too full.  Frankly treating the whole occasion of the presence of his relatives as an opportunity
for amusement, he left it, no doubt, but scant margin as an opportunity for anything else.
He suggested, invented, abounded--yet all the while with the loosest easiest rein. Strether,
during his own weeks, had gained a sense of knowing Paris; but he saw it afresh, and with fresh
emotion, in the form of the knowledge offered to his colleague.

A thousand unuttered thoughts hummed for him in the air of these observations; not the least
frequent of which was that Sarah might well of a truth not quite know whither she was drifting.
She was in no position not to appear to expect that Chad should treat her handsomely; yet she
struck our friend as privately stiffening a little each time she missed the chance of marking
the great nuance. The great nuance was in brief that of course her brother must treat her handsomely--she
should like to see him not; but that treating her handsomely, none the less, wasn't all in
all--treating her handsomely buttered no parsnips; and that in fine there were moments when
she felt the fixed eyes of their admirable absent mother fairly screw into the flat of her
back. Strether, watching, after his habit, and overscoring with thought, positively had moments
of his own in which he found himself sorry for her--occasions on which she affected him as
a person seated in a runaway vehicle and turning over the question of a possible jump. WOULD
she jump, could she, would THAT be a safe placed--this question, at such instants, sat for
him in her lapse into pallor, her tight lips, her conscious eyes.  It came back to the main
point at issue: would she be, after all, to be squared?  He believed on the whole she would
jump; yet his alternations on this subject were the more especial stuff of his suspense.  One
thing remained well before him--a conviction that was in fact to gain sharpness from the impressions
of this evening: that if she SHOULD gather in her skirts, close her eyes and quit the carriage
while in motion, he would promptly enough become aware.  She would alight from her headlong
course more or less directly upon him; it would be appointed to him, unquestionably, to receive
her entire weight. Signs and portents of the experience thus in reserve for him had as it happened,
multiplied even through the dazzle of Chad's party. (7) Hence, those writers who assert that Judah's long absence
from his father's house took place before Joseph was sold, only seek to delude themselves
and to call in question the Scriptural authority which they are anxious
to protect.

Endnote 14. (1) "Dinah was scarcely seven years old when she was
violated by Schechem."

(2) The opinion held by some that Jacob wandered about eight or ten years between Mesopotamia and Bethel,
savours of the ridiculous; if respect for Aben Ezra, allows me to say so. (3) For it is clear that
Jacob had two reasons for haste: first, the desire to see his old parents; secondly, and chiefly to perform, the
vow made when he fled from his brother (Gen. xxviii:10 and xxxi:13, and xxxv:1). (4) We read
(Gen. xxxi:3), that God had commanded him to fulfill his vow, and promised him help for returning to
his country.

(5) If these considerations seem conjectures rather than reasons, I will waive the point and admit
that Jacob, more unfortunate than Ulysses, spent eight or ten years or even longer, in this short
journey. (6) At any rate it cannot be denied that Benjamin was born in the last year of this wandering, that is by
the reckoning of the objectors, when Joseph was sixteen or seventeen years old, for Jacob left Laban seven
years after Joseph's birth. (7) Now from the seventeenth year of Joseph's age till the patriarch
went into Egypt, not more than twenty-two years elapsed, as we have shown in this chapter. (8) Consequently
Benjamin, at the time of the journey to Egypt, was twenty-three or
twenty- four at the most.

(9) He would therefore have been a grandfather in the flower of his age (Gen. xlvi:21, cf. Numb.
xxvi:38, 40, and 1 Chron. viii;1), for it is certain that Bela, Benjamin's
eldest son, had at that time, two sons, Addai and Naa-man.

(10) This is just as absurd as the statement that Dinah was violated
at the age of seven, not to mention other impossibilities which would
result from the truth of the narrative.

(11) Thus we see that unskillful endeavours to solve difficulties,
only raise fresh ones, and make confusion worse confounded.

Endnote 15. (1) "Othniel, son of Kenag, was judge for forty years." (2)
Rabbi Levi Ben Gerson and others believe that these forty years which the
Bible says were passed in freedom, should be counted from the death
of Joshua, and consequently include the eight years during which
the people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following
eighteen years must be added on to the eighty years of Ehud's and
Shamgar's judgeships.

(3) In this case it would be necessary to reckon the other years of subjection among those said by
the Bible to have been passed in freedom. (4) But the Bible expressly notes the number of years of subjection,
and the number of years of freedom, and further declares (Judges ii:18)
that the Hebrew state was prosperous during the whole time of the
judges.

(5) Therefore it is evident that Levi Ben Gerson (certainly a very learned man), and those who
follow him, correct rather than interpret the Scriptures.

(6) The same fault is committed by those who assert, that Scripture,
by this general calculation of years, only intended to mark the period
of the regular administration of the Hebrew state, leaving out the
years of anarchy and subjection as periods of misfortune and interregnum.

(7) Scripture certainly passes over in silence periods of anarchy, but does not, as they dream,
refuse to reckon them or wipe them out of the country's annals. (8)
It is clear that Ezra, in 1 Kings vi., wished to reckon absolutely
all the years since the flight from Egypt.

(9) This is so plain, that no one versed in the Scriptures can doubt it. (10) For, without going
back to the precise words of the text, we may see that the genealogy
of David given at the end of the book of Ruth, and I Chron. ii., scarcely
accounts for so great a number of years.

(11) For Nahshon, who was prince of the tribe of Judah (Numb. vii;11), two
years after the Exodus, died in the desert, and his son Salmon passed
the Jordan with Joshua. (12) Now this Salmon, according to the genealogy,
was David's great-grandfather. (13) Deducting, then, from the total
of 480 years, four years for Solomon's reign, seventy for David's
life, and forty for the time passed in the desert, we find that David
was born 366 years after the passage of the Jordan.

"You're not of the least!"--and Strether laid an appreciative hand on him to say it.  "No one's
of the least." With which, to mark how gaily he could take it, he patted his companion's knee.
"I must meet my fate alone, and I SHALL--oh you'll see!  And yet," he pursued the next moment,
"you CAN help me too.  You once said to me"--he followed this further--"that you held Chad
should marry. I didn't see then so well as I know now that you meant he should marry Miss Pocock.
Do you still consider that he should?  Because if you do"--he kept it up--"I want you immediately
to change your mind.  You can help me that way."

"Help you by thinking he should NOT marry?"

"Not marry at all events Mamie."

"And who then?"

"Ah," Strether returned, "that I'm not obliged to say.  But Madame de Vionnet--I suggest--when
he can.'

"Oh!" said little Bilham with some sharpness.

"Oh precisely!  But he needn't marry at all--I'm at any rate not obliged to provide for it.
Whereas in your case I rather feel that I AM."

Little Bilham was amused.  "Obliged to provide for my marrying?"

"Yes--after all I've done to you!"

The young man weighed it.  "Have you done as much as that?"

"Well," said Strether, thus challenged, "of course I must remember what you've also done to
ME.  We may perhaps call it square.  But all the same," he went on, "I wish awfully you'd marry
Mamie Pocock yourself."

Little Bilham laughed out.  "Why it was only the other night, in this very place, that you
were proposing to me a different union altogether."

"Mademoiselle de Vionnet?"  Well, Strether easily confessed it. "That, I admit, was a vain
image.  THIS is practical politics. During the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every
consideration. Food was scarce, owing to the fact that the roads were so well shelled by our
artillery that their transport could not come up; but they shared their food
with me.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way
made me as comfortable as possible.

Being able to speak a little German, I talked to the other wounded,
and found that their papers also published dreadful tales of our
treatment of prisoners, which I am glad to say I was able to refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, A BRITISH OFFICER. December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the last sentences.

Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged
18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed
in the Times of November 19, 1914:

We are treated very well indeed
here.

We have good beds and fires in the rooms, three good meals a day,
and a French soldier for a servant, and this morning I had a splendid
hot bath.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a.m. and 9.45 p.m., and lights out
at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard to walk about in. We have a canteen
here where we can buy clothes and anything we want.

Prison fare is very good—new rolls and coffee and fresh butter. Not bad! I had a very decent guard when I was
coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man tried to
get in to attack me he threw him off the train.

I am afraid I am out of the firing line until the war ends (worse luck).
I am in no danger of being shot unless I try to bolt, which I shan’t
do. I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to
have me shot, but luckily nobody seemed to agree with him. The next
time I saw him he had been bandaged up—he was shot through the shoulder—and
he dashed up and shook me by the hand and shouted, “Mein Freund, mein
Freund.”

On November 25 other letters appeared in the Times. One was from a cavalry subaltern in a German fortress:

You
ask about money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’s food. The officers get 16s. a week and buy
their own. Quite sufficient, as it is cheap. I have learnt German fairly quickly and do interpreter
now in the shop for the men, though, I am afraid, tant mal que bien. One of the officials here used to be
a professor, and is very kind trying to teach us.

Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs.

We
have quite good matches.... It is better not to try to send any public
news of any kind from England; people having been stupid trying to smuggle
letters in cakes and things, and it only makes trouble for everyone.

A Captain writes:

For dinner at 1 p.m. we are given soup, meat and vegetables.... Supper
takes place at 7 o’clock and consists of tea, sausages or meat and
potatoes.... We receive £5 a month as pay, of which 1s.

6d. is deducted for food each day. We have a canteen here at which
we can buy everything we want, ... so there is no need to send me
anything at all, except perhaps those small 7d. editions of novels.

An
English lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich:

I must tell you I had permission to visit a wounded English officer,
a cousin, and I think it would reassure many people at home to know
how warmly he speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him now
for five months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.—(Times,
March 17, 1915.)

Here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J. E. P.
Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to the
Royal Flying Corps:

I met one of the pilots of the German machines
that had attacked us.

He could speak English well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight. I had brought down his machine with my machine-gun, and he had
to land quite close to where I landed. He had a bullet through his
radiator and petrol tank, but neither he nor his observer was touched.

I met two German officers that knew several people that I knew, and
they were most awfully kind to me.

They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and I was treated like an honoured
guest. I then came by train the next day to Mainz, where I was confined in a room by myself for
two days. I have now been moved into a general room with eight other
English officers, where we sleep and eat. We are treated very well, and play hockey
and tennis in the prison yard.—(News of the World, February 27,
1916.)

Miss Colenso gives the following account, which appeared in the Daily
News of June 28, 1918:

A minister friend of mine told me the story of a young Scottish boy of
his acquaintance, now a military prisoner in Germany—I forget for
the moment in which camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’s
serious illness and the doctor’s verdict that she could only live a
few weeks. The German Commandant, finding the boy in great distress, asked
him what was the matter, and on learning the cause of his grief, said: “Would you
like to go home to your mother?” The boy sprang up, exclaiming indignantly,
“How can you mock me when you know it is impossible?” “But you shall
go, my boy,” said the commandant. “I will pay your return fare on condition
that you give me your word of honour to come back here.” The boy went
home to Scotland and remained by his mother’s side for about three
weeks till her death, when, true to his word, he returned to Germany.

The writer of “Under the Clock” considers that “well-attested” stories
of this kind should be given publicity.

It is even more necessary to examine the “attestation”
of the other kinds of stories, for all the bias is against the enemy,
and demand is apt to create supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ.

I pass on now to a report made by a United States Official.

The American Consul writes from Leipzig under date of November 16, 1914:
“On Saturday afternoon, the 14th instant, I visited the military concentration
camp near Merseburg, where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned.
The object of my visit was to investigate the claim of a French prisoner
that he is an American subject. The result of my observations regarding the
welfare and humane treatment of the prisoners at large was a surprise
to me.... Separated by nationality, these prisoners are housed in
wooden buildings, well built, ventilated and heated.... They sleep
upon straw mattresses in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as I could
judge, are as well or better housed than labourers upon public works
in the United States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee
and bread.

Dinner consists of vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper
they are given bread and coffee. I was informed that many of the prisoners
have some money, and that they are allowed to buy whatever else they
may wish to eat.

If I
may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there is evidence
in support of this statement.

The prisoners appeared to be in good health and
cheerful, many of them engaging in games and other pastimes.”

The diet described must be frightfully monotonous. Feeding has throughout been one of the German difficulties.
“Germany claims to hold 433,000 prisoners of war,” wrote an anonymous American journalist (probably in
November, 1914); “the housing and feeding of so great a number must be a tremendous strain upon resources
drained by the necessities of war.” The numbers must now exceed two million. The Press article referred
to [Misc. No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life, and the verminousness of the men
(they were of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz which he visited.
(See, however, the further official reports quoted below at p. 9). But
the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side. “One hears of
battles in which no quarter is granted.

There are stories of one side or the other refusing an armistice to permit
the other to gather its wounded.

Each side is desperately determined to win, and neither is counting
the cost. So men must rust in prison camps until the struggle is over.”
The monotony in this case seems to have been varied by fights between
the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering that
the others had not done their part in the war.

We need not be contemptuous about that.

The monotony of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce the maximum
degree of mutual friction.

There is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner of war. To be forced
to remain, day and night, for months and years in idleness, with a crowd
of others, not of one’s own choice is, I believe, one of the psychological
factors which make internment (especially to many civilians) decidedly
worse than imprisonment in a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE AND PACKAGES.

My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints
about the other. Telegram received by American Embassy, London, December
23, 1914, 22nd from Berlin Embassy:

“Foreign Office reports receiving many complaints that money and packages
sent German military and civilian prisoners in enemy countries from
Germany do not reach addresses.

Please secure information for Department to forward German Foreign Office
whether money and other postal matter will be delivered to such prisoners
promptly and intact.—BRYAN, Washington.”

There is no doubt that
many letters and parcels have not reached German prisoners in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.)
In spite of this, I have no doubt that the British authorities have
done their best to expedite delivery.

I would suggest that this is probably the case on the other side, too.
We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements in support of
this view. One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels in Germany has
been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M.P. (Daily Mail, November 8, 1916, and
Reprint):

I did not approach this subject quite “new to the game.” I had already
visited general post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere,
and had seen thousands, literally thousands, of food parcels intended
for our prisoners of war in Germany falling to bits and incapable
of being forwarded for want of skilled packing.

The sight was enough to make angels weep.

To think that so much self-sacrifice had been exercised in humble homes
to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken cigarettes, and
what not, in order that these should reach son or brother or sweetheart
in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving hands, that in the first
rough and tumble of the post the paper burst, the string came undone,
and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in an inextricable jumble
upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take opportunities
for mean thefts. We have all had experience of that during this war,
and the following cutting from the Daily News of October 5, 1915, may
be given in illustration:

In a letter of thanks to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick
and Scotswood workmen, formed for the purpose of sending comforts
to the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says:

I am extremely touched by the
extraordinary generosity and kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood
workmen.

I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are
indebted for this most handsome contribution.

Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid
some of the gifts, and will arrive in good condition.

If there are, alas, not a few men who will steal from their comrades, there are not likely to be fewer who will
steal from their enemies.

Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on both sides soon
became commendably regular. The care shown on the German side is warmly
praised by Captain Gilbert Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate
good deeds even after enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse
stories from others. The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge
better than civilians.

In his book “Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes:

I was very much impressed with the fair and systematic handling of our
parcels, letters and money; even letters and postcards which arrived
for me after I had been sent back to England, were re-addressed and
sent back.

A
remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after I had left was even
returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the pressing
need of the German War Loan.—(Daily News, January 25, 1918.)

An acquaintance
of my own, a lecturer in a technical school, spoke to me to the same
effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become quite
shattered in transit (p.p. 7). The Germans transferred the contents to a
sack, and, as he said, the temptation to pilfer the sorely-needed foodstuffs must
have been great. My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation
against disease.

ALTDAMM.

On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp at Altdamm
near Stettin. The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as
that of the camp at Stargard on which he had reported previously.

“It appears to me that every effort is being made to treat the prisoners
of war as humanely as possible in the two camps I visited. Dry and
warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps monotonous,
but of good material and well prepared, sanitary arrangements are good, and
the health of the men is carefully looked after.”

RUMOURS V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps
had not yet been agreed to by the German Government, and on February
23, 1915, Sir Edward Grey wrote to Mr. Page (the American Ambassador
in London) complaining that no definite replies to his questions were
forthcoming.

“His Majesty’s Government,” he continues, “have only unofficial information and rumours on the subject
to guide them, which they trust do not accurately represent the facts.” The “unofficial
information and rumours” had, however, attained wide publicity, and
obtained still more later.

The German authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints.

The reports now to be cited were made after this date. [Misc. 11 (1915)]. I propose to give examples
of almost all the earlier reports, for it was in the earlier stages of the
war that there was most difficulty everywhere in providing accommodation
for prisoners. We ought not to forget that the earliest reports on
our own camps which the British Government have published begin with February,
1916.[2]

DŒBERITZ.

On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large
camp with between three and four thousand British prisoners. “So far as
I could ascertain, British soldiers are called upon to do only their share
in fatigue work.... So far as I could ascertain, after inquiry of
a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping of either incoming
or outgoing correspondence.... The camp at Döberitz is in a healthy
location, and the barracks are new and of a permanent character....
They are at least as good as those used by the Germans at present
in the same neighbourhood.

As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances, but there were no general complaints,
except with regard to the German character of the food—and those were the exact counterparts of complaints made to
me by German prisoners in England.” I have italicised the last clause
as it will surely, to a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat important
one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says:

Until two weeks ago the Russians and English were, in cases, housed
together—a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account
of vermin.

The races have now been separated. The men all stated that they had the two blankets
and the other requisites provided in the German rules, and I heard
but one complaint about overcrowding.

Most of the English and French receive clothes from home. All the
prisoners who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men stated
that this was carried out according to the rules.

No complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned
officers, or the general government of the camp. The food was the source
of the few real complaints that could be heard, although at least
half of the men spoken to admitted that it was quite as good as could
possibly be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea that
everything that could reasonably be expected was done for the men by
the authorities in charge.

THREE
POOR CAMPS.

Mr. Jackson’s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle a/d
Saale are the most unfavourable. They were all small officers’ camps,
Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50 British officers.

There were a few orderlies at each
camp.

The chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service for
officers and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were used
for all purposes, there being no special mess or recreation rooms.

There
seemed, however, to be no discrimination against the British.

GŒTTINGEN.

Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000
prisoners. “The Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done everything
possible to make this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great
work. The only complaint is as to the food, the quantity of which,
of course, is not under the control of the Commandant, as he is limited
to an expenditure of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.

“Everything was in the most beautiful order. There was a very fine steam
laundry and drying room, bath rooms, with hot and cold showers, and the
closets, etc., are in a very good condition and scientifically built.

There is running water and electricity in the camp. A French barrister of Arras,
named Léon Paillet, who was working with the French Red Cross and who,
for some reason or other, has been made a prisoner, has done marvellous
work in organising libraries, etc.

“I am pleased to say that the
professors and pastors in Göttingen have, from the first, taken an
interest in this camp, and Professor Stange has done much in helping
the lot of the prisoners.

The Y.M.C.A. building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A. C. Harte,
who for a number of years has been working with the Y.M.C.A. in India,
will be a great help to the men in the camp.

“At the opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen,
Mr. Harte, and Professor Stange, and then each speech was delivered
in English and French by prisoners. These were followed by short
speeches by French, English, and Belgian prisoners. Then came a concert
by the camp orchestra and the camp singing society, followed by songs
and recitations by various prisoners.”

Dr. Ohnesorg reported further on April 22. At that time there were 6,577
prisoners, of whom 1,586 were British. He warmly commends the steam
laundry, the steam disinfecting plant, and the hospital. “A spirit of
contentment pervaded the camp. The British prisoners were well clothed.
I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable soup, which was
very palatable and, I should say, nourishing.... The citizens of
Göttingen have taken a great interest in the camp, and some of them,
notably Professor Stange, of the University, have given a great deal
of their time to the welfare of prisoners and the formation of classes
for study amongst them.”

GERMAN HELP FOR PRISONERS.

The interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners
of war is little recognised in this country.

The Berlin Committee (of which more will
be said later) has received considerable support. At the end of June,
1916, a meeting in support of its work was held at the house of Prince
Lichnowsky, former Ambassador in London, who returned specially from
the front to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many notable men
and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection of 8,000
marks (about £400) was made.

COLOGNE.

Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals in
which wounded British prisoners are lying.

He reports as follows:

These institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered hospitals
that little need be said of their employment or management.

They are provided with all the machinery and paraphernalia usual
to surgical work on a large scale, contain all standard and necessary
conveniences and fittings, afford to patients a maximum of protection
in the matter of sanitation, quiet and relief from preventable irritation,
and are conducted in a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane
way.

The names of the 49 wounded British prisoners are hereunto annexed.

I personally spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them
I conversed privately and without being overheard.

With but one exception no English-speaking British prisoner had any complaint
to make, and a number of the British prisoners eagerly expressed to me their
appreciation for the care and attention given them.

The physical
condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only 21 deaths have
occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital No. VI. since
the war began, and the death rate in the other two hospitals is correspondingly
low. The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable
in view of the many grave injuries treated.

In closing I may say
that there is no discrimination or segregation among the patients
and that certain French patients with whom I spoke expressed, likewise,
their appreciation for the care and attention given them.

"Oh it IS funny."  That of course essentially went with it.

But it brought them back.  How indeed then she must cared, in answer to which Strether's entertainer
dropped a comprehensive "Ah!" expressive perhaps of some impatience for the time he took to
get used to it.  She herself had got used to it long before.

II

When one morning within the week he perceived the whole thing to be really at last upon him
Strether's immediate feeling was all relief. He had known this morning that something was about
to happen--known it, in a moment, by Waymarsh's manner when Waymarsh appeared before him during
his brief consumption of coffee and a roll in the small slippery salle-a-manger so associated
with rich rumination.  Strether had taken there of late various lonely and absent-minded meals;
he communed there, even at the end of June, with a suspected chill, the air of old shivers
mixed with old savours, the air in which so many of his impressions had perversely matured;
the place meanwhile renewing its message to him by the very circumstance of his single state.
He now sat there, for the most part, to sigh softly, while he vaguely tilted his carafe, over
the vision of how much better Waymarsh was occupied. That was really his success by the common
measure--to have led this companion so on and on.  He remembered how at first there had been
scarce a squatting-place he could beguile him into passing; the actual outcome of which at
last was that there was scarce one that could arrest him in his rush.  His rush--as Strether
vividly and amusedly figured it--continued to be all with Sarah, and contained perhaps moreover
the word of the whole enigma, whipping up in its fine full-flavoured froth the very principle,
for good or for ill, of his own, of Strether's destiny.  It might after all, to the end, only
be that they had united to save him, and indeed, so far as Waymarsh was concerned, that HAD
to be the spring of action. Strether was glad at all events, in connexion with the case, that
the saving he required was not more scant; so constituted a luxury was it in certain lights
just to lurk there out of the full glare. He had moments of quite seriously wondering whether
Waymarsh wouldn't in fact, thanks to old friendship and a conceivable indulgence, make about
as good terms for him as he might make for himself. They wouldn't be the same terms of course;
but they might have the advantage that he himself probably should be able to make none at all.

He was never in the morning very late, but Waymarsh had already been out, and, after a peep
into the dim refectory, he presented himself with much less than usual of his large looseness.
He had made sure, through the expanse of glass exposed to the court, that they would be alone;
and there was now in fact that about him that pretty well took up the room.  He was dressed
in the garments of summer; and save that his white waistcoat was redundant and bulging these
things favoured, they determined, his expression.  He wore a straw hat such as his friend hadn't
yet seen in Paris, and he showed a buttonhole freshly adorned with a magnificent rose. Strether
read on the instant his story--how, astir for the previous hour, the sprinkled newness of the
day, so pleasant at that season in Paris, he was fairly panting with the pulse of adventure
and had been with Mrs. Pocock, unmistakeably, to the Marche aux Fleurs. Strether really knew
in this vision of him a joy that was akin to envy; so reversed as he stood there did their
old positions seem; so comparatively doleful now showed, by the sharp turn of the wheel, the
posture of the pilgrim from Woollett.  He wondered, this pilgrim, if he had originally looked
to Waymarsh so brave and well, so remarkably launched, as it was at present the latter's privilege
to appear.  He recalled that his friend had remarked to him even at Chester that his aspect
belied his plea of prostration; but there certainly couldn't have been, for an issue, an aspect
less concerned than Waymarsh's with the menace of decay.  Strether had at any rate never resembled
a Southern planter of the great days--which was the image picturesquely suggested by the happy
relation between the fuliginous face and the wide panama of his visitor. This type, it further
amused him to guess, had been, on Waymarsh's part, the object of Sarah's care; he was convinced
that her taste had not been a stranger to the conception and purchase of the hat, any more
than her fine fingers had been guiltless of the bestowal of the rose.  It came to him in the
current of thought, as things so oddly did come, that HE had never risen with the lark to attend
a brilliant woman to the Marche aux Fleurs; this could be fastened on him in connexion neither
with Miss Gostrey nor with Madame de Vionnet; the practice of getting up early for adventures
could indeed in no manner be fastened on him.  It came to him in fact that just here was his
usual case:  he was for ever missing things through his general genius for missing them, while
others were for ever picking them up through a contrary bent.  And it was others who looked
abstemious and he who looked greedy; it was he somehow who finally paid, and it was others
who mainly partook.  Yes, he should go to the scaffold yet for he wouldn't know quite whom.
He almost, for that matter, felt on the scaffold now and really quite enjoying it.  It worked
out as BECAUSE he was anxious there--it worked out as for this reason that Waymarsh was so
blooming.  It was HIS trip for health, for a change, that proved the success--which was just
what Strether, planning and exerting himself, had desired it should be. That truth already
sat full-blown on his companion's lips; benevolence breathed from them as with the warmth of
active exercise, and also a little as with the bustle of haste.

"Mrs. Pocock, whom I left a quarter of an hour ago at her hotel, has asked me to mention to
you that she would like to find you at home here in about another hour.  She wants to see you;
she has something to say--or considers, I believe, that you may have:  so that I asked her
myself why she shouldn't come right round.  She hasn't BEEN round yet--to see our place; and
I took upon myself to say that I was sure you'd be glad to have her.  The thing's therefore,
you see, to keep right here till she comes."

The announcement was sociably, even though, after Waymarsh's wont, somewhat solemnly made;
but Strether quickly felt other things in it than these light features.  It was the first approach,
from that quarter, to admitted consciousness; it quickened his pulse; it simply meant at last
that he should have but himself to thank if he didn't know where he was.  He had finished his
breakfast; he pushed it away and was on his feet.  There were plenty of elements of surprise,
but only one of doubt.  "The thing's for YOU to keep here too?"  Waymarsh had been slightly
ambiguous.

He wasn't ambiguous, however, after this enquiry; and Strether's understanding had probably
never before opened so wide and effective a mouth as it was to open during the next five minutes.
It was no part of his friend's wish, as appeared, to help to receive Mrs. Pocock; he quite
understood the spirit in which she was to present herself, but his connexion with her visit
was limited to his having--well, as he might say--perhaps a little promoted it.  He had thought,
and had let her know it, that Strether possibly would think she might have been round before.
At any rate, as turned out, she had been wanting herself, quite a while, to come.  "I told
her," said Waymarsh, "that it would have been a bright idea if she had only carried it out before."

Strether pronounced it so bright as to be almost dazzling.  "But why HASn't she carried it
out before?  She has seen me every day--she had only to name her hour.  I've been waiting and
waiting."

"Well, I told her you had.  And she has been waiting too."  It was, in the oddest way in the
world, on the showing of this tone, a genial new pressing coaxing Waymarsh; a Waymarsh conscious
with a different consciousness from any he had yet betrayed, and actually rendered by it almost
insinuating. This question is: "In your opinion are the Negro colleges meeting the needs of definite religious
training?" Every one's answer except one might be summarized thus: Some good has been accomplished
but we are far from the real goal.

We need reconstruction and a new impetus.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an
essential in the process of religious education does seem to indicate
that they regard self activity.

Wherever the social service was very scant the one reporting felt it his duty to give an apology
for the actual conditions and express a hope of better results in
the future.

This showed that they felt it the vital factor in the progressive socialization of the individuals.
The place of prominence given to worship, to religious services on
Sunday and in the week is either an index to their conception concerning
the value of worship or else an index of their habit toward orthodoxy.

Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former
for the larger number of these institutions.

SOME CURRENT CONCEPTIONS OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN RELATION TO GENERAL
EDUCATION

Religious education is considered a part of general education
and is included under that genus.

What is general education? For a long time education was defined
in terms of intellect, but that ground is no longer tenable.

Spencer said: "Education is the preparation for complete living."
Modern educators reject this as an inadequate statement of education.
Education does not merely prepare for something in the future. It endeavors
to fill one full of life, and human experience during the educative
process.

Education must be expressed in social terms. James describes education as the organization of acquired habits
of conduct and tendencies to behavior. This emphasizes the psychological side.

It
was thought that the aim of education could be expressed in purely individual
terms.

It was said to be the harmonious development of all the powers of the individual. Dewey attacks
this definition showing that there is no criterion for telling what
is meant by the terms used.

There is nothing in the make-up of human beings, taken in any isolated
way which furnishes controlling ends and serves to mark out powers.

Unless we have the aim supplied by social life we have only the old faculty
psychology to furnish us with ideas of powers in general or the
specific powers.[3] Dewey defines education as the regulation of
the process of coining to share in the social consciousness. And
the majority of educators use social terms to define education.

Soares has this conception in mind when he gives the following definition
of education. "Education is a scientifically directed process of developing
progressive socialized personality." But to achieve personality one
must achieve sympathy and sympathy is one of the concerns of religion.

Hence all true education
involves religion.

What is religion?

Wright in the American Journal of Theology, Volume XVI, page 385, quotes
Leuba as defining religion as a belief in a psychic superhuman power.
Wright has objections to this definition on the ground of its narrowness.
He attempts to add breadth to the definition in: "Religion is the endeavor
to secure the conservation of socially recognized values, through
specific actions that are believed to evoke some agency different
from the ordinary ego of the individual or from other merely human
beings, and that imply a feeling of dependence upon this agency.

Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment."
This is not synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies.

Creeds and ceremonies have to do with ecclesiasticism not with religion
per se. Creeds are developments of theology and dogma is an outgrowth
of religion and not religion.

Modes of
worship developed into rites and ceremonies are ecclesiastical means of fostering the religious spirit
but not religion. Religion is not a feeling to be imposed from without. Religion
is a life and a life-long process. "The religious life is the response
the heart of man makes to God, as the heart of the universe. The religious
person is one who is conscious of his divinity because of his kinship
with the universe through God, and who because of this consciousness
seeks fellowship with God and the Godly."

Having arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion which
are given by some of the most representative students of the subjects,
let us ascertain some conceptions of religious education.

As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded as a separate entity. It is a part
of the process of efficient education.

The human organism is a unit. Life is a whole and connects physical, mental and religious phases. The whole
personality is the object for consideration for the educator.

The emphasis in education varies from physical to mental and from mental
to religious, or social. When the emphasis is placed on the social
or religious phase the procedure may be properly called religious
education.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion. He says: "Religious education is the
process by which the individual in response to a controlled environment, achieves
a progressive, conscious social[4] order based on regard for the worth
and destiny of every individual." Professor Peabody states the matter
in the following words:[5] "Religious education is the drawing out
of the religious nature, the clarifying and strengthening of religious
ideals, the enriching and rationalizing of the sense of God.... The
end of religious education is service...."

Dewey's idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions of religious education. The
standard of each is found in the functional relationship of each to
society. Modes of expression and emphasis may vary but the ideals for
both are the same. Dr. Haslett[7] has given an unique representation of
this conception.

"Religious education," says he, "is closely related to secular education and is largely dependent
upon it. The fundamental laws and principles of psychology and of
education require to be recognized as central."

Professor Coe[8]
reminds us, however, that "religious education is not and cannot be a mere
application of any generalities in which the university departments of education
deal.

It is not a mere particular that gets its meaning or finds its test in the general." Religious education
deals with original data and with specific problems that rarely appear
in the instruction that is called 'general' and that grow out of the
specific nature of our educational purpose.

In the analysis of these data and in the determination of the method,
we can and must use matter contained in general courses of education.

But the field of study of religious education is not exhausted there,
but is so specific and yet so broad as properly to constitute a recognized
branch of educational practice. The religious purpose in religious
education yields the point of view and the principles of classification
that are important for religious educators.

The conceptions of religious education just passed in review warrant certain
deductions.

Any institution
which meets adequately the requirements of religious education must have genuinely religious
men and women in the entire teaching and official force. Such persons
will determine the atmosphere and spirit of the institution.

These teachers should have clear conceptions of the ideals of religious
education. The blind cannot lead the blind. The students must be trained
along three fundamental lines, of the religious life. First, he must have some
of the intellectual value of religion. He must have social knowledge.
He must have the opportunity of expressing the devotional attitude in worship.
He must have the outlet of religious energy in social service.

The duty of the college will be far from discharged unless it makes
provision for laboratory religion where there is a working place for each
member. Religion is a life and the college should be a society where
this life may be lived in its fullest extent, encouraging practical
altruism and giving the protection which an ideal society affords
against demoralization.

EVOLUTION OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

The problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real. On the basis of the investigation we are able
to point out some prominent phases of the problem. The first element
of this problem is the teacher.

There are in Negro colleges, 22 teachers of religious education who have
had no professional training for the work. This means that one-fourth of the
entire corp of teachers of religion in these institutions are without
the prestige, at least, of even the semblance of professional training.

Two main causes account for this. These institutions have not those
who are professionally trained on their faculties and they lack funds
to procure the service of such persons.

In the next place they think it is not necessary.

One observation here is important. These services seem to be significant in proportion to the participation
in them by the students themselves. The Sunday School and the Young People's meetings are the most
popular services for the students. They do the things in which they have a volitional interest. We cannot
thrust our religious experiences upon the students from without.

They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with the
environment in which they live.

The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow a program which was effective for those
who lived in another civilization. The traditional Negro prayer meeting does not function religiously in
the life of the Negro college student.

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard to
religious services. Where should that stop? Many are beginning to think that
the religious value of the services is often nullified by the compulsory
attendance. There are many conscientious objectors among the students
who think the removal of compulsion would be conducive to better
religious development.

But the likelihood of some swinging from one extreme to the other
is very great. It is still a problem left for the religious educators
in the colleges to solve.

The solution must result in the conservation of the good found in the compulsory system
and the good to be found in freedom of choice.

Expressional activities are increasing in Negro colleges but with few
exceptions these are inadequate in scope and number.

It is true that not enough students are able to share in the social service projects. This is really one
of, if not the most important factors in religious education. Men gain religious power by
acting out their beliefs, allowing their convictions to flow out into service.

There
is an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies in Negro
colleges.

Frequently we find several organizations attempting to do the same thing and each
makes a miserable failure in the attempt. More than that, this lack of coordination
and correlation results in duplications which surely mean wasted energy
and non-effectiveness.

If all of the religious agencies were supervised in such a way that each
would know his specific task and would not overlap that of other agencies,
much more effective work would be the result.

There are signs of hope in the religious education of these Negro
colleges.

The almost unanimous recognition of the religious motive in efficient
education by the educators and the manifest consciousness of needs
of better religious education have been mentioned.

There are others. An increasing number of trained teachers from Northern,
Eastern and Western colleges and universities is evident. These men and women
are coming from the institutions where the points of view and training
represented in the previous chapter are found.

The summer schools of the various colleges and universities in the North,
East and West are offering many of these modern religious education
courses and larger numbers of the teachers of religious education
are availing themselves of the opportunities.

Much literature of religious education published recently is finding its
way to these schools, the most notable of which is the Religious
Education Magazine.

The following sources were used in the preparation of this dissertation:
American Missionary Association Report, 1916; Baptist Missionary
Society (Woman's) Reports, 1910-1916; Catalogues--Negro Colleges, 1916-1917;
W. E.B. DuBois, Morals and Manners Among Negro Americans, Atlanta University
Publications, No. 18; Journal of the Proceedings of the A. M. E. Church
(General Conference), 1916; Journal of the Proceedings of the Methodist
Episcopal Church (General Conference), 1916; Thomas J. Jones, Negro
Education, United States Bureau of Education, Bulletins 38 and 39,
1916; Thomas J. Jones, Recent Movements in Negro Education, United
States Bureau of Education, 1912, Vol.

I; Questionnaires, from Negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau of Education Investigations,
Education in the South, Bulletin 30, 1933; Monroe N. Work, Negro
Year Book, 1914, 1915, 1916; Young Men's Christian Association, Report
of the International Committee, May 12, 1916; Year Book, 1915-1916.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W. S. Athearn,
Religion in the Curriculum-Religious Education; R. E. Bolton, Principles
of Education; H. F. Cope, The Efficient Layman; H. F. Cope, Fifteen
Years of the Religious Education Association, The American Journal
of Theology, July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee Report, Standardization
of Biblical Courses, Rel.

Educ. August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, The Media of Religious Impression
in College, N. E. A. 1914, p. 494 ff; John Dewey, Ethical Principles
Underlying Education, Moral Principles in Education; T. S. O. Evans,
The University Young Men's Christian Association as a Training School
for Religious Leaders, Rel.

Educ. 1908; H. F. Fowler, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious
Education for Colleges, Rel. Educ.

1915, p. 355 ff; E. N. Hardy, The Churches and The Educated Man; S. B. Haslett, Pedagogical Bible School,
Parts I and II; International Sunday School Association, Organized
Work in America, Vol.

XIII; C. F. Kent, Training the College Teacher, Rel. Educ. 1915,
Vol.

X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education, Vol. I, p. 370; E. C. Moore, What is Education; A. Morgan,
Education and Social Progress; F. G. Peabody, The Religious Education
of an American Child, Rel. Educ.

1915, p. 107; I. J. Peritz, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of
Religious Instruction, Rel. Educ. Vol.

X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed, The Essential Place of Religion in Education,
N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 66; R. Rhees, Evangelisation
of Education, Biblical World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh, The
Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication,
1913, p. 3; I. T. Wood, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious
Instruction for Colleges, Rel.

Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 332; The Survey of Progress in Religious and Moral
Education, Rel.

Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 114.

[2] None of these does all of the things described, but all of them
do at least some one of them.

[3] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[4] Ideals in Religious Education, R.E.A., June, 1917, p. 185.

[5] Ibid., p. 94.

[6] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[7] Pedagogical Bible School, page 207.

[8] R. E. A., April 19, 1917, page 123.

THE AFTERMATH OF NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION[1]

Nat Turner was a man below the ordinary stature, though strong and active. He was of unmixed African
lineage, with the true Negro face, every feature of which was strongly marked. He was not a preacher,
as was generally believed, though a man of deep religious and spiritual
nature, and seemed inspired for the performance of some extraordinary
work.

He was austere in life and manner, not given to society, but devoted his spare
moments to introspection and consecration. He thought often of what
he had heard said of him as to the great work he was to perform.

He eventually became seized with this idea as a frenzy. To use his own language
he saw many visions.

Receiving, as he says, further directions from the Holy Spirit, he communicated
his designs to four of his most confidential friends. July 4, 1831,
the anniversary of American Independence, was the day on which the work
of death was to have been begun. Nat Turner hesitated and allowed the
time to pass by, when, the mysterious signs reappearing, he determined to
begin at once the bloody work. Sunday, August 21, he met those who had
pledged their cooperation and support.

They were Hark Travis, Henry Porter, Samuel Francis, Nelson Williams,
Will Francis and Jack Reese, with Nat Turner making the seventh.
They worked out their plans while they ate in the lonely woods of Southampton
their feast of consecration, remaining at the feast until long after midnight.
The massacre was begun at the house of Joseph Travis, the man to
whom Nat Turner then belonged.

Armed with a hatchet Turner entered his master's chamber, the door having
been broken open with the axe, and aimed the first blow of death.
The hatchet glanced harmless from the head of the would-be victim and
the first fatal blow was given by Will Francis, the one of the party
who had got into the plot without Nat Turner's suggestion. All of his
master's household, five in number, soon perished.[4]

The insurgents procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few
rounds of ammunition.

At the barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was drilled and
maneuvered. Nat Turner himself assumed the title of General Cargill with
a stipend of ten dollars a day. Henry Porter, the paymaster, was to receive
five dollars a day, and each private one dollar. Thence they marched from
plantation to plantation until by Monday morning the party numbered
fifteen with nine mounted.

Before nine o'clock the force had increased to forty and the insurgents had covered an extent of territory
two or three miles distant from the first point of attack, sweeping
everything before them. Nat Turner generally took his station in the
rear, with fifteen or twenty of the best armed and reliable men at
the front, who generally approached the houses as fast as their horses
could run for the double purpose of preventing escapes and striking
terror.

His force continued to increase until they numbered sixty, all armed
with guns, axes, swords, and clubs, and mounted. This line of attack was
kept up until late Monday afternoon, when they reached a point, about
three miles distant from Jerusalem, the county seat, where Nat Turner
reluctantly yielded to a halt while some of his forces went in search
of reenforcements.

He was
eager to push on to the county seat as speedily as possible and capture it.
This delay proved the turning point in the enterprise.

Impatient at the delay of his men who had turned aside, Turner started
to the mansion house whither they had gone and on their return to
the wood found a party of white men who had pursued the bloody path
of the insurrectionists and disposed of the guard of eight men whom
Turner had left at the roadside.

The white men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain Alexander P. Peete. They
had been directed to reserve their fire until within thirty paces, but
one of their number fired on the insurgents when within about one
hundred yards.

Half of the whites beat a precipitate retreat when Nat Turner ordered his
men to fire and rush on them. The few remaining white men stood their
ground until Turner approached within fifty yards, when they too
followed the example of their comrades, fired and retreated with several wounded.
Turner pursued and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter was
only prevented by the timely arrival of a party of whites approaching
in another direction from Jerusalem.

Being baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to cross
the Nottaway river at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem where he
expected to procure additional arms and ammunition from the rear. After
trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to Jerusalem,
the insurgents turned back toward his rendezvous and reached Major
Thomas Ridley's, where forty assembled.

He placed out sentinels and lay down to sleep, but there was to be
no sleep that night.

An attack on his forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which ensued left
him with one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his forces, was proceeding
in his effort to rally new adherents when the firing of a gun by Hark
was the signal for a fire in ambush and a retreat followed. After this
Turner never saw many of his men any more. They had killed fifty-five
whites but the tide had turned.

Turner concealed himself in the woods but was not dismayed, for by
messenger he directed his forces to rally at the point from which
on the previous Sunday they had started out on their bloody work;
but the discovery of white men riding around the place as though they
were looking for some one in hiding convinced him that he had been
betrayed.

A reign of terror followed in Virginia.[5] Labor was paralyzed, plantations
abandoned, women and children were driven from home and crowded into
nooks and corners.

The sufferings of many of these refugees who spent night after night
in the woods were intense.

Retaliation began. In a little more than one day 120 Negroes were killed.
The newspapers of the times contained from day to day indignant protests
against the cruelties perpetrated.

One individual boasted that he himself had killed between ten and
fifteen Negroes.

Volunteer whites
rode in all directions visiting plantations.

Negroes were tortured to death, burned,
maimed and subjected to nameless atrocities.

Slaves who were distrusted were pointed out and if they endeavored
to escape, they were ruthlessly shot down.[6]

A few individual instances
will show the nature and extent of this vengeance.

There occurred other instances which strikingly remind one of scenes
before the Civil War and during reconstruction. He took passage in the stage
coach, but the vehicle was intercepted.

He then fled to a friend's home but the house was broken open and he
was dragged forth. The civil authorities informed of the affair refused
to interfere. The Governor of the commonwealth quickly called into service
whatever forces were at his command.

The lack of adequate munitions of war being
apparent, Commodore Warrington, in command of the Navy Yard in Gosport,
was induced to distribute a portion of the public arms under his control.

For this purpose the government ordered detachments of the Light Infantry from
the seventh and fifty-fourth Regiments and from the fourth Regiment of cavalry
and also from the fourth Light Artillery to take the field under Brigadier
General Eppes. Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were also called into
service under General William H. Brodnax and continued in the field
until the danger had passed. Further aid was afforded by Commodore
Eliott of the United States Navy by order of whom a detachment of sailors
from the Natchez was secured and assistance also from Colonel House,
the commanding officer at Fortress Monroe, who promptly detached a part of
his force to take the field under Lieutenant Colonel Worth.[10] The
revolt was subdued, however, before these troops could be placed in
action and about all they accomplished thereafter was the terrifying
of Negroes who had taken no part in the insurrection and the immolation
of others who were suspected.

Sixty-one white persons were killed.
  "She has confided to my judgement and my tenderness the expression of her personal
sense of everything, and the assertion of her personal dignity."

They were the very words of the lady of Woollett--he would have known them in a thousand; her
parting charge to her child.  Mrs. Pocock accordingly spoke to this extent by book, and the
fact immensely moved him.  "If she does really feel as you say it's of course very very dreadful.
I've given sufficient proof, one would have thought," he added, "of my deep admiration for
Mrs. Newsome."

"And pray what proof would one have thought you'd CALL sufficient? That of thinking this person
here so far superior to her?"

He wondered again; he waited.  "Ah dear Sarah, you must LEAVE me this person here!"

In his desire to avoid all vulgar retorts, to show how, even perversely, he clung to his rag
of reason, he had softly almost wailed this plea.  Yet he knew it to be perhaps the most positive
declaration he had ever made in his life, and his visitor's reception of it virtually gave
it that importance.  "That's exactly what I'm delighted to do.  God knows WE don't want her!
You take good care not to meet," she observed in a still higher key, "my question about their
life.  If you do consider it a thing one can even SPEAK of, I congratulate you on your taste!"

The life she alluded to was of course Chad's and Madame de Vionnet's, which she thus bracketed
together in a way that made him wince a little; there being nothing for him but to take home
her full intention.  It was none the less his inconsequence that while he had himself been
enjoying for weeks the view of the brilliant woman's specific action, he just suffered from
any characterisation of it by other lips.  "I think tremendously well of her, at the same time
that I seem to feel her 'life' to be really none of my business.  It's my business, that is,
only so far as Chad's own life is affected by it; and what has happened, don't you see? is
that Chad's has been affected so beautifully.  The proof of the pudding's in the eating"--he
tried, with no great success, to help it out with a touch of pleasantry, while she let him
go on as if to sink and sink.  He went on however well enough, as well as he could do without
fresh counsel; he indeed shouldn't stand quite firm, he felt, till he should have re-established
his communications with Chad.  Still, he could always speak for the woman he had so definitely
promised to "save."  This wasn't quite for her the air of salvation; but as that chill fairly
deepened what did it become but a reminder that one might at the worst perish WITH her?  And
it was simple enough--it was rudimentary:  not, not to give her away. "I find in her more merits
than you would probably have patience with my counting over. "I was borned and raised on William
Jackson's place, jus' twelve miles east of Gilmer. I was growed and had one child at surrender,
and my mother told me I was a woman of my own when Old Missie sot us free, jus' after surrender,
so you can figurate my age from that.

"My first child was borned the January befo' surrender in June, and I 'members hoeing in the field
befo' the war come on. Massa William raised lots of cotton and corn
and tobacco and most everything we et.

I never worked in the field, 'cept to chase the calves in, till I was most growed. Massa was good
to us.

Course, I never went to school, but Old Missie sent my brother, Alex,
two years after the war, with her own chillen.

"I was married durin' the war and it was at church, with a white preacher.

Old Missie give me the cloth and dye for my weddin' dress and my mother
spun and dyed the cloth, and I made it.

It was homespun but nothin' cheap 'bout it for them days. After the weddin' massa give us a big dinner
and we had a time.

"Massa done all the bossin' his own self. He never whipped me, but Old Missie
had to switch me a little for piddlin' round, 'stead of doin' what
she said.

Every Sat'day night we had a candy pullin' and played games, and allus had plenty of clothes and
shoes.

"I seed the soldiers comin' and gwine to the war, and 'members when
Massa William left to go fight for the South.

His boy, Billie, was sixteen, and tended the place while massa's
away.

Massa done say he'd let the niggers go without fightin'. He didn't
think war was right, but he had to go. He 'serts and comes home befo'
the war gits goin' good and the soldiers come after him.

He run off to the bottoms, but they was on hosses and overtook him. I was there in the room
when they brung him back.

One of
them says, 'Jackson, we ain't gwine take you with us now, but we'll
fix you so you can't run off till we git back.' They put red pepper in
his eyes and left. Missie cried. They come back for him in a day or two and
made my father saddle up Hawk-eye, massa's best hoss.

Then they rode away and we never seed massa 'gain. One day my brother,
Alex, hollers out, 'Oh, Missie, yonder is the hoss, at the gate, and ain't
nobody ridin' him.' Missie throwed up her hands and says, 'O, Lawdy,
my husban' am dead!' She knowed somehow when he left he wasn't comin'
back.

"Old Missie freed us but said we had a home as long as she did. Me and my
husban' stays 'bout a year, but my folks stays till she marries 'gain.

"My brother-in-law, Sam Pitman, tells us how he put one by the Ku Kluxers.
Him and some niggers was out one night and the Kluxers chases them
on hosses.

They run down a narrow road and tied four strands of grapevine 'cross
the road, 'bout breast high to a hoss. The Kluxers come gallopin'
down that road and when the hosses hit that grapevine, it throwed
them every which way and broke some their arms. Sam used to laugh
and tell how them Kluxers cussed them niggers.

"Me and my husban'
come to Marshall the year after surrender, and I is lived here every
since.  This Etext, like other editions of the past four decades, corrects the apparent error.--Richard
D. Hathaway, preparer of this electronic text]

I

He went late that evening to the Boulevard Malesherbes, having his impression that it would
be vain to go early, and having also, more than once in the course of the day, made enquiries
of the concierge. Chad hadn't come in and had left no intimation; he had affairs, apparently,
at this juncture--as it occurred to Strether he so well might have--that kept him long abroad.
Our friend asked once for him at the hotel in the Rue de Rivoli, but the only contribution
offered there was the fact that every one was out.  It was with the idea that he would have
to come home to sleep that Strether went up to his rooms, from which however he was still absent,
though, from the balcony, a few moments later, his visitor heard eleven o'clock strike.  Chad's
servant had by this time answered for his reappearance; he HAD, the visitor learned, come quickly
in to dress for dinner and vanish again. Strether spent an hour in waiting for him--an hour
full of strange suggestions, persuasions, recognitions; one of those that he was to recall,
at the end of his adventure, as the particular handful that most had counted. The mellowest
lamplight and the easiest chair had been placed at his disposal by Baptiste, subtlest of servants;
the novel half-uncut, the novel lemon-coloured and tender, with the ivory knife athwart it
like the dagger in a contadina's hair, had been pushed within the soft circle--a circle which,
for some reason, affected Strether as softer still after the same Baptiste had remarked that
in the absence of a further need of anything by Monsieur he would betake himself to bed. The
night was hot and heavy and the single lamp sufficient; the great flare of the lighted city,
rising high, spending itself afar, played up from the Boulevard and, through the vague vista
of the successive rooms, brought objects into view and added to their dignity. Strether found
himself in possession as he never yet had been; he had been there alone, had turned over books
and prints, had invoked, in Chad's absence, the spirit of the place, but never at the witching
hour and never with a relish quite so like a pang.

He spent a long time on the balcony; he hung over it as he had seen little Bilham hang the
day of his first approach, as he had seen Mamie hang over her own the day little Bilham himself
might have seen her from below; he passed back into the rooms, the three that occupied the
front and that communicated by wide doors; and, while he circulated and rested, tried to recover
the impression that they had made on him three months before, to catch again the voice in which
they had seemed then to speak to him. This question is: "In your opinion are the Negro colleges
meeting the needs of definite religious training?" Every one's answer except one might be summarized
thus: Some good has been accomplished but we are far from the real
goal.

We need reconstruction and a new impetus.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an essential in the process of religious
education does seem to indicate that they regard self activity.

Wherever the social service was very scant the one reporting felt it his duty to give an apology for
the actual conditions and express a hope of better results in the
future. This showed that they felt it the vital factor in the progressive
socialization of the individuals.

The place of prominence given to worship, to religious services on Sunday and in the week is either
an index to their conception concerning the value of worship or else
an index of their habit toward orthodoxy.

Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former for the
larger number of these institutions.

SOME CURRENT CONCEPTIONS OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN RELATION TO GENERAL
EDUCATION

Religious education is considered a part of general education and is included under that genus. What
is general education? For a long time education was defined in terms
of intellect, but that ground is no longer tenable.

Spencer said: "Education is the preparation for complete living." Modern educators
reject this as an inadequate statement of education. Education does not
merely prepare for something in the future. It endeavors to fill one full
of life, and human experience during the educative process. Education must
be expressed in social terms.

James describes education as the organization of acquired habits
of conduct and tendencies to behavior.

This emphasizes the psychological side.

It was thought that the aim of education could be expressed in purely individual terms. It was said
to be the harmonious development of all the powers of the individual.
Dewey attacks this definition showing that there is no criterion
for telling what is meant by the terms used.

There is nothing in the make-up of human beings, taken in any isolated way which furnishes controlling ends
and serves to mark out powers. Unless we have the aim supplied by social life
we have only the old faculty psychology to furnish us with ideas of
powers in general or the specific powers.[3] Dewey defines education
as the regulation of the process of coining to share in the social
consciousness.

And the majority of educators use social terms to define education.

Soares has this conception in mind when he gives the following definition
of education. "Education is a scientifically directed process of
developing progressive socialized personality."

But to achieve personality one must achieve sympathy and sympathy is one
of the concerns of religion. Hence all true education involves religion.

What
is religion? Wright in the American Journal of Theology, Volume XVI,
page 385, quotes Leuba as defining religion as a belief in a psychic superhuman
power. Wright has objections to this definition on the ground of its
narrowness.

He attempts to add breadth to the definition in: "Religion is the
endeavor to secure the conservation of socially recognized values,
through specific actions that are believed to evoke some agency different
from the ordinary ego of the individual or from other merely human
beings, and that imply a feeling of dependence upon this agency.

Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment." This
is not synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies. Creeds
and ceremonies have to do with ecclesiasticism not with religion
per se. Creeds are developments of theology and dogma is an outgrowth
of religion and not religion.

Modes of worship developed into rites and ceremonies are ecclesiastical
means of fostering the religious spirit but not religion.

Religion is not a feeling to be imposed from without. Religion is a life
and a life-long process. "The religious life is the response the heart
of man makes to God, as the heart of the universe. The religious person is one
who is conscious of his divinity because of his kinship with the universe
through God, and who because of this consciousness seeks fellowship
with God and the Godly."

Having arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion which
are given by some of the most representative students of the subjects,
let us ascertain some conceptions of religious education.

As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded as a separate entity. It is
a part of the process of efficient education.

The human organism is a unit. Life is a whole and connects physical, mental
and religious phases. The whole personality is the object for consideration
for the educator.

The emphasis in education varies from physical to mental and from mental to religious, or social.
When the emphasis is placed on the social or religious phase the
procedure may be properly called religious education.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion. He says:
"Religious education is the process by which the individual in response to
a controlled environment, achieves a progressive, conscious social[4] order
based on regard for the worth and destiny of every individual." Professor
Peabody states the matter in the following words:[5] "Religious education
is the drawing out of the religious nature, the clarifying and strengthening
of religious ideals, the enriching and rationalizing of the sense
of God.... The end of religious education is service...."

Dewey's idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions of religious
education. The standard of each is found in the functional relationship
of each to society.

Modes of expression and emphasis may vary but the ideals for both are the same. Dr. Haslett[7]
has given an unique representation of this conception. "Religious education," says he, "is closely
related to secular education and is largely dependent upon it. The
fundamental laws and principles of psychology and of education require
to be recognized as central."

Professor Coe[8] reminds us, however, that "religious education is not and cannot be a mere application
of any generalities in which the university departments of education deal. It is not a mere particular
that gets its meaning or finds its test in the general."

Religious education deals with original data and with specific problems
that rarely appear in the instruction that is called 'general' and that
grow out of the specific nature of our educational purpose.

In the analysis of these data and in the determination of the method,
we can and must use matter contained in general courses of education.
But the field of study of religious education is not exhausted there,
but is so specific and yet so broad as properly to constitute a recognized
branch of educational practice.

The religious purpose in religious education yields the point of view and
the principles of classification that are important for religious educators.

The
conceptions of religious education just passed in review warrant certain deductions.
Any institution which meets adequately the requirements of religious
education must have genuinely religious men and women in the entire
teaching and official force.

Such persons will determine the atmosphere and spirit of the institution. These teachers should have clear conceptions
of the ideals of religious education. The blind cannot lead the blind.

The students must be trained along three fundamental lines, of the religious
life. First, he must have some of the intellectual value of religion. He must have
social knowledge. He must have the opportunity of expressing the devotional
attitude in worship.

He must have the outlet of religious energy in social service. The duty of the college will be
far from discharged unless it makes provision for laboratory religion
where there is a working place for each member.

Religion is a life and the college should be a society where this life may be lived in its fullest extent,
encouraging practical altruism and giving the protection which an ideal society affords against demoralization.

EVOLUTION
OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

The problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real. On
the basis of the investigation we are able to point out some prominent
phases of the problem.

The first element of this problem is the teacher. There are in Negro colleges, 22
teachers of religious education who have had no professional training
for the work.

This means that one-fourth of the entire corp of teachers of religion in
these institutions are without the prestige, at least, of even the semblance
of professional training. Two main causes account for this. These institutions
have not those who are professionally trained on their faculties and they lack
funds to procure the service of such persons.

In the next place they think it is not necessary.

One observation here is important.

These services seem to be significant in proportion to the participation
in them by the students themselves. The Sunday School and the Young
People's meetings are the most popular services for the students.

They do the things in which they have a volitional interest. We cannot
thrust our religious experiences upon the students from without.

They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with the environment
in which they live.

The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow a program
which was effective for those who lived in another civilization.

The traditional Negro prayer meeting does not function religiously in the life
of the Negro college student.

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard
to religious services.

Where should that stop? Many are beginning to think that the religious
value of the services is often nullified by the compulsory attendance.

There
are many conscientious objectors among the students who think the
removal of compulsion would be conducive to better religious development.
But the likelihood of some swinging from one extreme to the other is
very great. It is still a problem left for the religious educators
in the colleges to solve.

The solution must result in the conservation of the good found in
the compulsory system and the good to be found in freedom of choice.

Expressional activities are increasing in Negro colleges but with
few exceptions these are inadequate in scope and number.

It is true that not enough students are able to share in the social
service projects.

This is really one of, if not the most important factors in religious
education. Men gain religious power by acting out their beliefs, allowing
their convictions to flow out into service.

There is an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies
in Negro colleges.

Frequently
we find several organizations attempting to do the same thing and each
makes a miserable failure in the attempt. More than that, this lack of
coordination and correlation results in duplications which surely
mean wasted energy and non-effectiveness.

If all of the religious agencies were supervised in such a way that
each would know his specific task and would not overlap that of other
agencies, much more effective work would be the result.

There are signs of hope in the religious education of these Negro colleges.
The almost unanimous recognition of the religious motive in efficient
education by the educators and the manifest consciousness of needs
of better religious education have been mentioned.

There are others.

An increasing number of trained teachers from Northern, Eastern and Western
colleges and universities is evident. These men and women are coming
from the institutions where the points of view and training represented
in the previous chapter are found.

The summer schools of the various colleges and universities in the North,
East and West are offering many of these modern religious education
courses and larger numbers of the teachers of religious education
are availing themselves of the opportunities. Much literature of
religious education published recently is finding its way to these
schools, the most notable of which is the Religious Education Magazine.

The

following sources were used in the preparation of this dissertation: American
Missionary Association Report, 1916; Baptist Missionary Society
(Woman's) Reports, 1910-1916; Catalogues--Negro Colleges, 1916-1917;
W. E.B. DuBois, Morals and Manners Among Negro Americans, Atlanta University
Publications, No. 18; Journal of the Proceedings of the A. M. E. Church
(General Conference), 1916; Journal of the Proceedings of the Methodist
Episcopal Church (General Conference), 1916; Thomas J. Jones, Negro
Education, United States Bureau of Education, Bulletins 38 and 39, 1916; Thomas
J. Jones, Recent Movements in Negro Education, United States Bureau of
Education, 1912, Vol.

I; Questionnaires, from Negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau of
Education Investigations, Education in the South, Bulletin 30, 1933;
Monroe N. Work, Negro Year Book, 1914, 1915, 1916; Young Men's Christian
Association, Report of the International Committee, May 12, 1916;
Year Book, 1915-1916.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W.
S. Athearn, Religion in the Curriculum-Religious Education; R. E.
Bolton, Principles of Education; H. F. Cope, The Efficient Layman;
H. F. Cope, Fifteen Years of the Religious Education Association,
The American Journal of Theology, July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee
Report, Standardization of Biblical Courses, Rel.

Educ. August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, The Media of Religious Impression
in College, N. E. A. 1914, p. 494 ff; John Dewey, Ethical Principles
Underlying Education, Moral Principles in Education; T. S. O. Evans,
The University Young Men's Christian Association as a Training School
for Religious Leaders, Rel.

Educ. 1908; H. F. Fowler, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious
Education for Colleges, Rel. Educ.

1915, p.
355 ff; E. N. Hardy, The Churches and The Educated Man; S. B. Haslett,
Pedagogical Bible School, Parts I and II; International Sunday School
Association, Organized Work in America, Vol.

XIII; C. F. Kent, Training the College Teacher, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol.
X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education, Vol.

I, p. 370; E.
C. Moore, What is Education; A. Morgan, Education and Social Progress; F. G. Peabody, The Religious
Education of an American Child, Rel.

Educ. 1915, p. 107; I. J. Peritz, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum
of Religious Instruction, Rel. Educ. Vol.

X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed, The Essential Place of Religion in Education,
N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 66; R. Rhees, Evangelisation
of Education, Biblical World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh, The
Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication,
1913, p. 3; I. T. Wood, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious
Instruction for Colleges, Rel.

Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 332; The Survey of Progress in Religious and Moral Education,
Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 114.

[2] None of these does all of the things described, but all of them
do at least some one of them.

[3] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[4] Ideals in Religious Education, R.E.A., June, 1917, p. 185.

[5] Ibid., p. 94.

[6] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

[7] Pedagogical Bible School, page 207.

[8] R. E. A., April 19, 1917, page 123.

THE AFTERMATH OF NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION[1]

Nat Turner was a man below the ordinary stature, though strong and
active.

He was of unmixed African lineage, with the true Negro face, every feature of
which was strongly marked.

He was not a preacher, as was generally believed, though a man of deep religious and spiritual nature, and
seemed inspired for the performance of some extraordinary work.

He was austere in life and manner, not given to society, but devoted his spare moments to introspection and
consecration. He thought often of what he had heard said of him as to
the great work he was to perform. He eventually became seized with this
idea as a frenzy. To use his own language he saw many visions.

Receiving, as he says, further directions from the Holy Spirit, he communicated his designs to four of his
most confidential friends. July 4, 1831, the anniversary of American
Independence, was the day on which the work of death was to have
been begun.

Nat Turner hesitated and allowed the time to pass by, when, the mysterious
signs reappearing, he determined to begin at once the bloody work. Sunday,
August 21, he met those who had pledged their cooperation and support.
They were Hark Travis, Henry Porter, Samuel Francis, Nelson Williams,
Will Francis and Jack Reese, with Nat Turner making the seventh. They
worked out their plans while they ate in the lonely woods of Southampton
their feast of consecration, remaining at the feast until long after
midnight. The massacre was begun at the house of Joseph Travis, the man
to whom Nat Turner then belonged. Armed with a hatchet Turner entered his master's
chamber, the door having been broken open with the axe, and aimed the first
blow of death.

The hatchet glanced harmless from the head of the would-be victim and the
first fatal blow was given by Will Francis, the one of the party who
had got into the plot without Nat Turner's suggestion. All of his master's
household, five in number, soon perished.[4]

The insurgents procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few
rounds of ammunition.

At the barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was drilled and maneuvered.
Nat Turner himself assumed the title of General Cargill with a stipend of ten
dollars a day. Henry Porter, the paymaster, was to receive five dollars
a day, and each private one dollar. Thence they marched from plantation
to plantation until by Monday morning the party numbered fifteen with nine mounted.
Before nine o'clock the force had increased to forty and the insurgents
had covered an extent of territory two or three miles distant from
the first point of attack, sweeping everything before them.

Nat Turner generally took his station in the rear, with fifteen or
twenty of the best armed and reliable men at the front, who generally
approached the houses as fast as their horses could run for the double
purpose of preventing escapes and striking terror.

His force continued to increase until they numbered sixty, all armed with
guns, axes, swords, and clubs, and mounted. This line of attack was kept
up until late Monday afternoon, when they reached a point, about three
miles distant from Jerusalem, the county seat, where Nat Turner reluctantly
yielded to a halt while some of his forces went in search of reenforcements.

He was eager to push on to the county seat as speedily as possible and capture it.
This delay proved the turning point in the enterprise.

Impatient at the delay of his men who had turned aside, Turner started
to the mansion house whither they had gone and on their return to
the wood found a party of white men who had pursued the bloody path
of the insurrectionists and disposed of the guard of eight men whom
Turner had left at the roadside.

The white men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain Alexander P. Peete. They had been
directed to reserve their fire until within thirty paces, but one
of their number fired on the insurgents when within about one hundred
yards. Half of the whites beat a precipitate retreat when Nat Turner
ordered his men to fire and rush on them.

The few remaining
white men stood their ground until Turner approached within fifty yards,
when they too followed the example of their comrades, fired and retreated
with several wounded.

Turner pursued and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter
was only prevented by the timely arrival of a party of whites approaching
in another direction from Jerusalem.

Being baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to cross
the Nottaway river at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem where he
expected to procure additional arms and ammunition from the rear. After
trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to Jerusalem, the
insurgents turned back toward his rendezvous and reached Major Thomas
Ridley's, where forty assembled.

He placed
out sentinels and lay down to sleep, but there was to be no sleep that night.
An attack on his forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which
ensued left him with one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his
forces, was proceeding in his effort to rally new adherents when the
firing of a gun by Hark was the signal for a fire in ambush and a
retreat followed.

After this Turner never saw many of his men any more. They had killed
fifty-five whites but the tide had turned. Turner concealed himself
in the woods but was not dismayed, for by messenger he directed his
forces to rally at the point from which on the previous Sunday they had
started out on their bloody work; but the discovery of white men riding
around the place as though they were looking for some one in hiding
convinced him that he had been betrayed.

A reign of terror followed in Virginia.[5] Labor was paralyzed, plantations
abandoned, women and children were driven from home and crowded into
nooks and corners.

The sufferings of many of these refugees who spent night after night
in the woods were intense.

Retaliation began. In a little more than one day 120 Negroes were
killed.

The newspapers of the times contained from day to day indignant protests
against the cruelties perpetrated.

One individual boasted that he himself had killed between ten and
fifteen Negroes.

Volunteer whites rode in all directions visiting plantations.

Negroes were tortured to death, burned, maimed and subjected to nameless
atrocities.

Slaves who were distrusted were pointed out and if they endeavored
to escape, they were ruthlessly shot down.[6]

A few individual instances
will show the nature and extent of this vengeance.

There occurred other instances which strikingly remind one of scenes
before the Civil War and during reconstruction.

He took passage in the stage coach, but the vehicle was intercepted.
He then fled to a friend's home but the house was broken open and
he was dragged forth.

The civil authorities informed of the affair refused to interfere. The
Governor of the commonwealth quickly called into service whatever forces were at
his command.

The lack of adequate munitions of war being apparent, Commodore Warrington, in command of the Navy Yard in
Gosport, was induced to distribute a portion of the public arms under
his control. For this purpose the government ordered detachments of the
Light Infantry from the seventh and fifty-fourth Regiments and from
the fourth Regiment of cavalry and also from the fourth Light Artillery
to take the field under Brigadier General Eppes.

Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were also called into service under
General William H. Brodnax and continued in the field until the danger had
passed. Further aid was afforded by Commodore Eliott of the United States
Navy by order of whom a detachment of sailors from the Natchez was
secured and assistance also from Colonel House, the commanding officer
at Fortress Monroe, who promptly detached a part of his force to take
the field under Lieutenant Colonel Worth.[10] The revolt was subdued,
however, before these troops could be placed in action and about all
they accomplished thereafter was the terrifying of Negroes who had
taken no part in the insurrection and the immolation of others who
were suspected.

Sixty-one white persons were killed.



Miss Gostrey gave a comprehensive sigh.  "The way you reduce people to subjection!"

"It's certainly, on one side, wonderful.  But it's quite equalled, on another, by the way I
don't.  I haven't reduced Sarah, since yesterday; though I've succeeded in seeing her again,
as I'll presently tell you. The others however are really all right. Mamie, by that blessed
law of ours, absolutely must have a young man."

"But what must poor Mr. Bilham have?  Do you mean they'll MARRY for you?"

"I mean that, by the same blessed law, it won't matter a grain if they don't--I shan't have
in the least to worry."

She saw as usual what he meant.  "And Mr. Jim?--who goes for him?"

"Oh," Strether had to admit, "I couldn't manage THAT.  He's thrown, as usual, on the world;
the world which, after all, by his account--for he has prodigious adventures--seems very good
to him. He fortunately--'over here,' as he says--finds the world everywhere; and his most prodigious
adventure of all," he went on, "has been of course of the last few days."

Miss Gostrey, already knowing, instantly made the connexion.  "He has seen Marie de Vionnet again?"

"He went, all by himself, the day after Chad's party--didn't I tell you?--to tea with her.
By her invitation--all alone."

"Quite like yourself!" Maria smiled.

"Oh but he's more wonderful about her than I am!"  And then as his friend showed how she could
believe it, filling it out, fitting it on to old memories of the wonderful woman:  "What I
should have liked to manage would have been HER going."

"To Switzerland with the party?"

"For Jim--and for symmetry.  If it had been workable moreover for a fortnight she'd have gone.
She's ready"--he followed up his renewed vision of her--"for anything."

Miss Gostrey went with him a minute.  "She's too perfect!"

"She WILL, I think," he pursued, "go to-night to the station."

"To see him off?"

"With Chad--marvellously--as part of their general attention.  And she does it"--it kept before
him--"with a light, light grace, a free, free gaiety, that may well softly bewilder Mr. Pocock."

It kept her so before him that his companion had after an instant a friendly comment.  "As
in short it has softly bewildered a saner man. Are you really in love with her?" Maria threw off.

"It's of no importance I should know," he replied.  "It matters so little--has nothing to do,
practically, with either of us."

"All the same"--Maria continued to smile--"they go, the five, as I understand you, and you
and Madame de Vionnet stay."

"Oh and Chad." To which Strether added:  "And you."

"Ah 'me'!"--she gave a small impatient wail again, in which something of the unreconciled seemed
suddenly to break out.  "I don't stay, it somehow seems to me, much to my advantage.  In the
presence of all you cause to pass before me I've a tremendous sense of privation."

Strether hesitated.  "But your privation, your keeping out of everything, has been--hasn't
it?--by your own choice."

"Oh yes; it has been necessary--that is it has been better for you. What I mean is only that
I seem to have ceased to serve you."

"How can you tell that?" he asked.  "You don't know how you serve me. When you cease--"

"Well?" she said as he dropped.

"Well, I'll LET you know.  Be quiet till then."

She thought a moment.  "Then you positively like me to stay?"

"Don't I treat you as if I did?"

"You're certainly very kind to me.  But that," said Maria, "is for myself.  It's getting late,
as you see, and Paris turning rather hot and dusty.  People are scattering, and some of them,
in other places want me.  But if you want me here--!"

She had spoken as resigned to his word, but he had of a sudden a still sharper sense than he
would have expected of desiring not to lose her. "I want you here."

She took it as if the words were all she had wished; as if they brought her, gave her something
that was the compensation of her case.  "Thank you," she simply answered.  And then as he looked
at her a little harder, "Thank you very much," she repeated.

It had broken as with a slight arrest into the current of their talk, and it held him a moment
longer.  "Why, two months, or whatever the time was, ago, did you so suddenly dash off?  The
reason you afterwards gave me for having kept away three weeks wasn't the real one."

She recalled.  "I never supposed you believed it was.  Yet," she continued, "if you didn't
guess it that was just what helped you."

He looked away from her on this; he indulged, so far as space permitted, in one of his slow
absences.  "I've often thought of it, but never to feel that I could guess it.  And you see
the consideration with which I've treated you in never asking till now."

"Now then why DO you ask?"

"To show you how I miss you when you're not here, and what it does for me."

"It doesn't seem to have done," she laughed, "all it might! However," she added, "if you've
really never guessed the truth I'll tell it you."

"I've never guessed it," Strether declared.

"Never?"

"Never."

"Well then I dashed off, as you say, so as not to have the confusion of being there if Marie
de Vionnet should tell you anything to my detriment."

He looked as if he considerably doubted.  "You even then would have had to face it on your return."

"Oh if I had found reason to believe it something very bad I'd have left you altogether."

"So then," he continued, "it was only on guessing she had been on the whole merciful that you
ventured back?"

Maria kept it together.  "I owe her thanks.  Whatever her temptation she didn't separate us.
That's one of my reasons," she went on "for admiring her so."

"Let it pass then," said Strether, "for one of mine as well.  But what would have been her
temptation?" 

CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy
man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the
mountains of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia,
Diocese of Metz. In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June,
1740, at eight o'clock in the morning, he being in his kitchen, with
his niece and the servant, he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was
placed on the ground turn round three or four times, without its being
set in motion by any one.

A moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from
the next room into the same kitchen, in presence of the same persons, without
their seeing the hand which threw it. The next day, at nine o'clock
in the morning, some panes of glass were broken, and through these
panes were thrown some stones, with what appeared to them supernatural
dexterity.

The spirit never hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night
time, but always during the day. The curé employed the prayers marked out
in the ritual to bless his house, and thenceforth the genius broke no more
panes of glass; but he continued to throw stones at the curé's people,
without hurting them, however. If they fetched water from the fountain,
he threw stones into the bucket; and afterwards he began to serve
in the kitchen.

One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled them up as fast as she planted
them, and laid them in a heap. It was in vain that she stormed, threatened,
and swore in the German style; the genius continued to play his tricks.

One

day,
when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade was found thrust
two feet deep into the ground, without any trace being seen of him
who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that on the spade was a
riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two soles, which the girl
had locked up the evening before in a little box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter,
and putting it either all round the kitchen, or in the porch, or even
in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight. One day he filled an iron
pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees, and, having put some water
in it, carried it to the ally or walk in the garden; another time he
suspended it to the pot-hook over the fire. The servant having broken
two eggs into a little dish for the curé's supper, the genius broke
two more into it in his presence, the maid having merely turned to get
some salt. The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all
his earthenware, furniture, linen, bread, milk, and other things
scattered about over the house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one
time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in a moment,
before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place, and told him
he was resolved to quit the parsonage house.

Whilst this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that the
genius had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money
in a hole in the ground. They went there, and found things exactly
as she had said. They picked up the money, which what the curé had
put away in a place not locked up; and in a moment after they found
it anew, with some liards, two by two, scattered about the kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went
to the curé's house, and persuaded him that it was all the effect
of a spell; they told him to take two pistols, and fire them off at
the place where he might observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these officers two pieces of silver;
and from that time he was no longer perceived in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which
the elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had
had credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled the
curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house, what had
he to fear from any pistol shot which might have been fired at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?

I have been told several times that a monk of the Cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these
signs, and he always arrived. It is affirmed of another monk of the
same order that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him, not only of
what passed in the house, but also of what happened out of it; and
one day he was awakened three times, and warned that some monks were
quarreling, and were ready to come to blows; he ran to the spot, and
put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus[284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons
and false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from
them many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not
thought proper to be present, but the decisions of which he desired
to know, being in a boat with St. Sulpicius, but apart from others,
as usual with him, an angel appeared, and informed him what had passed
in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held,
and it was found to be at the same hour at which the angel had appeared
to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room
and his clothes.

One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard him talking with
some one; he entered, and asked who he was conversing with. The youth
affirmed that there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the superior
could neither see nor discover any one there.

Nevertheless, as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned
that for some years he had been attended by a familiar genius, who
rendered him every service that a domestic could have done, and had
promised him great advantages in the ecclesiastical profession. The
superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said.

He ordered the genius to set a chair for the superior; the genius obeyed. Information of this was sent to the
archbishop, who did not think proper to give it publicity. The young clerk was sent away, and
this singular adventure was buried in silence.

Bodin[285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living at the time he wrote, which
was in 1588. This person had a familiar who from the age of thirty-seven had
given him good advice respecting his conduct, sometimes to correct
his faults, sometimes to make him practice virtue, or to assist him;
resolving the difficulties which he might find in reading holy books,
or giving him good counsel upon his own affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning
to awaken him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing
that it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad
day, striking gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench.

When
he desired to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched his
right ear; but if it was anything wrong and dangerous, he touched
his left ear; so that from that time nothing occurred to him of which
he was not warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in imminent danger, he saw his
genius, under the form of a child of extraordinary beauty, who saved
him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris,[286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who
had a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented
him from sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off
the bed-clothes, or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened
to him in the open country, and in the day time, to feel his cloak
and boots pulled at, and his hat thrown down; then he heard the bursts
of laughter and the voice of a person deceased and well known to him,
who seemed to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams,
or otherwise, can hardly be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.

A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise, senior, a
counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words,
which he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote
down in French characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén
apsychian."

He asked him what that meant. M. de Saumaise told him it meant, "Save yourself; do you not perceive
the death with which you are threatened?" Upon this hint, the man removed, and left his house,
which fell down the following night.[287]

The same story is related,
with a little difference, by another author, who says that the circumstance
happened at Paris;[288] that the genius spoke in Syriac, and that
M. de Saumaise being consulted, replied, "Go out of your house, for
it will fall in ruins to-day, at nine o'clock in the evening."

It is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to add a few circumstances
by way of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going one
day to Nismes, with one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the latter,
having heard Peiresch talking in his sleep in the night, waked him,
and asked him what he said.

Peiresch answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had
offered me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as
I was going to count him down his money, you waked me, to my great
regret."

They arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized the goldsmith
whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him if he had nothing curious,
the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal, or coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch paid them, and was delighted
to see his dream so happily accomplished.

Here is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a little in the same style.[289] A learned man of
Dijon, after having wearied himself all day with an important passage
in a Greek poet, without being able to comprehend it at all, went
to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm, introduced
him into the palace of Queen Christina, conducted him into the library,
and showed him a small volume, which was precisely what he sought. He opened
it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely cleared up
the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and wrote down
the verses he had seen at Stockholm. On the morrow, he wrote to M. Descartes,
who was then in Sweden, and begged of him to look in such a place, and
in such a division of the library, if the book, of which he sent
him the description, were there, and if the Greek verses which he
sent him were to be read in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also
the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one of his
friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would send it
him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of
Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but did
not lead him to do others.

It is asserted[290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army, commanded
by Laches, Socrates, flying like the others, with this Athenian general,
and being arrived at a spot where several roads met, Socrates would
not follow the road taken by the other fugitives; and when they asked
him the reason, he replied, because his genius drew him away from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other road were either killed or made prisoners
by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful whether the elves, of which so many things are related,
are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church admits nothing
between these two kinds of genii.

Every genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many
mansions, as the Gospel says,[291] and as there are among the blessed,
various degrees of glory, differing from each other, so we may believe
that there are in hell various degrees of pain and punishment for
the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible,
and divert themselves in disquieting the living?

Why do they attach themselves to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to others? Why do they
make themselves perceptible only during a certain time, and that sometimes
a short space?

I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy and prejudice;
but their reality has been so often experienced by the discourse they have
held, and the actions they have performed in the presence of many wise
and enlightened persons, that I cannot persuade myself that among
the great number of stories related of them there are not at least
some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good,
to prayer, or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions.
If they do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments
of the damned, on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt
not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may
be perceived, it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us. All those to whom these
genii attach themselves have a horror of them, mistrust and fear
them; and it rarely happens that these familiar demons do not lead
them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves from them by grave
acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me,
"I no more doubt the truth of than if I had been a witness of it."

Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers,
was in winter quarters in Flanders. One of his men came to him one day
to beg that he would change his landlord, saying that every night
there came into his bed-room a spirit, which would not allow him to sleep.
The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity.

Some days after, the same horseman came back and made the same request
to him; the only reply of the captain would have been a volley of
blows with a stick, had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight.

At last, he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to his captain that he could bear it no
longer, and should be obliged to desert if his lodgings were not changed.
Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said
to him, with an oath, "I will go this night and sleep with you, and
see what is the matter."

At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table,
he lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a moment turned the bed upside
down, covering the captain and the soldier with the mattress and paillasse.
Despilliers had great trouble to disengage himself and find again
his sword and pistols, and he returned home much confounded.

The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly
in the house of his new host.

M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen to it. He was
an intrepid man, who had never known what it was to fall back before
danger. He died field-marshal of the armies of the Emperor Charles
VI. and governor of the fortress of Ségedin.

His son has confirmed this adventure to me within a short time, as
having heard it from his father.

The person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes
return; but I have found myself in a great many places which it was said they
haunted. I have even tried several times to see them, but I have never
seen any.

I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who all
said they saw the spirit; I was the only one in the assembly who
saw nothing."

So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same letter wherein
he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes:

[284] St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. ii. c. 2.

[286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8.

[287] Grot. Epist. Part. ii. Ep. 405.

[288] They affirm that it happened at Dijon, in the family of the
MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory
of the circumstance.

[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p. 55.

[290] Cicero, de Divinat. lib. i.

[291] John xiv. 2.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH OVER TREASURE.

Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches buried in
the earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the
demon, whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon,
the Pluto of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian,
of these treasures.

We know also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures in the
tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them in
the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them in those gloomy
places. Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom, when he says,[293]
"Would to God I had never been born: I should now sleep with the kings
and great ones of the earth, who built themselves solitary places; like
unto those who seek for treasure, and are rejoiced when they find a
tomb;" doubtless because they hope to find great riches therein.

There were very precious things in the tomb of Cyrus.
He had dreamed--had turned and twisted possibilities for an hour:  it had been the only adventure
of his life in connexion with the purchase of a work of art.  The adventure, it will be perceived,
was modest; but the memory, beyond all reason and by some accident of association, was sweet.
The little Lambinet abode with him as the picture he WOULD have bought--the particular production
that had made him for the moment overstep the modesty of nature.  He was quite aware that if
he were to see it again he should perhaps have a drop or a shock, and he never found himself
wishing that the wheel of time would turn it up again, just as he had seen it in the maroon-coloured,
sky-lighted inner shrine of Tremont Street. It would be a different thing, however, to see
the remembered mixture resolved back into its elements--to assist at the restoration to nature
of the whole far-away hour:  the dusty day in Boston, the background of the Fitchburg Depot,
of the maroon-coloured sanctum, the special-green vision, the ridiculous price, the poplars,
the willows, the rushes, the river, the sunny silvery sky, the shady woody horizon.

He observed in respect to his train almost no condition save that it should stop a few times
after getting out of the banlieue; he threw himself on the general amiability of the day for
the hint of where to alight.  His theory of his excursion was that he could alight anywhere--not
nearer Paris than an hour's run--on catching a suggestion of the particular note required.
It made its sign, the suggestion--weather, air, light, colour and his mood all favouring--at
the end of some eighty minutes; the train pulled up just at the right spot, and he found himself
getting out as securely as if to keep an appointment.  It will be felt of him that he could
amuse himself, at his age, with very small things if it be again noted that his appointment
was only with a superseded Boston fashion.  He hadn't gone far without the quick confidence
that it would be quite sufficiently kept.  The oblong gilt frame disposed its enclosing lines;
the poplars and willows, the reeds and river--a river of which he didn't know, and didn't want
to know, the name--fell into a composition, full of felicity, within them; the sky was silver
and turquoise and varnish; the village on the left was white and the church on the right was
grey; it was all there, in short--it was what he wanted:  it was Tremont Street, it was France,
it was Lambinet.  Moreover he was freely walking about in it. He did this last, for an hour,
to his heart's content, making for the shady woody horizon and boring so deep into his impression
and his idleness that he might fairly have got through them again and reached the maroon-coloured
wall.  It was a wonder, no doubt, that the taste of idleness for him shouldn't need more time
to sweeten; but it had in fact taken the few previous days; it had been sweetening in truth
ever since the retreat of the Pococks. He walked and walked as if to show himself how little
he had now to do; he had nothing to do but turn off to some hillside where he might stretch
himself and hear the poplars rustle, and whence--in the course of an afternoon so spent, an
afternoon richly suffused too with the sense of a book in his pocket--he should sufficiently
command the scene to be able to pick out just the right little rustic inn for an experiment
in respect to dinner. To strengthen his cause he made alliances at different times with the Muwallads in Elvira,
Seville, and Saragoza, and with the successful rebel, Abdurrahman
ibn Merwan, in Badajos.

[1] Dozy, ii. 190.

[2] Al Makkari, ii. 437. De Gayangos' note.

[3] In 880 or 881.

[4] See a description of him quoted by Stanley Lane-Poole ("Moors
in Spain," p. 107) from an Arab writer: "Woe unto thee, Cordova! when
the captain with the great nose and ugly face--he who is guarded before
by Moslems, and behind by idolaters--when Ibn Hafsun comes before
thy gates.

Then will thine awful fate be accomplished."

Openly defying the Sultan's forces, he was only kept in check by Almundhir,
the king's son, who succeeded his father in 886.

Omar was further strengthened by the accession to his side of Sherbil, the Count of Cordova.[1] The death
of Almundhir in 888 removed from Omar's path his only able enemy,
and, during Abdallah's weak reign, the rebel leader was virtual king
of the south and east of Spain.

The district of Regio[2] was made over to him by the king, and Omar's lieutenant, Ibn Mastarna, was
made chief of Priejo.

This protracted war, which was really one for national independence, was carried on year after year with
varying success. At one time Omar conceived the intention of proclaiming the Abasside Khalifs,[3]
at another he grasped at the royal power himself; and Abdallah's empire was only saved by a seasonable
victory in 891 at Hisn Belay (or Espiel).[4] The battle was fought on the eve of the Passover, and the Moslems
taunted their enemies with having such a joyful feast, and so many victims to commemorate it with. This
shows that a large, perhaps the largest, part of Omar's army was Christian.
Another indication of this is found in a poem of Tarikh ibn Habib,[5]
where, speaking of the coming destruction of Cordova, he says: "The
safest place will then be the hill of Abu Abdu, where once stood a
church," meaning that Omar's Christian soldiers would respect that
sanctuary, and no other.

Indeed, it is certain that Omar himself became a Christian some time before this battle,[6] as his
father had done before him.

He took the name of Samuel, and his daughter Argentea, as we have seen, suffered martyrdom. This change
of creed on Omar's part changed the character of the war, and gave it
more of a religious,[7] and perhaps less of a national, character, for
the Spanish Moslems fell off from him, when he became Christian and
built churches.

[1] Servandus. Al Makkari, ii. 456. De Gayangos' note.

[2] Where Islam was almost extinct.

Dozy, ii. 335.

[3] Al Makkari, ii. p. 456.

De Gayangos' note.

[4] Ibn Hayyan, apud Al Makk., ii. p. 452. This seems to be the same victory as that which Dozy (ii. 284)
calls Polei or Aguilar.

[5] See Dozy, ii. p. 275.

[6] Ibn Hayyan, apud Dozy, ii. p. 326.

[7] In 896, on the capture of Cazlona by a renegade named Ibn as Khalia, all the Christians were
massacred.--Dozy, ii. p. 327.

Towards the close of his reign Abdallah was able to assert his supremacy,
though Omar and his followers still held out. Omar himself did not
die till 917, some years after Abdallah's death. The king's successor, Abdurrahman
III., was a different stamp of man from Abdallah, and the reduction
of Omar became only a question of time, though, in fact, the apostasy
of Omar from Islam had made the ultimate success of the national party
very doubtful, if not impossible.

After Omar's death, his son, Djaffar, thought to recover the support of the Spanish Moslems by
embracing Islam; but he thereby lost the confidence of the Christians, by whom he was murdered. In
928 his brother Hafs surrendered, with Bobastro, to the Sultan, and the great rebellion was finally extinguished.

So
ended the grand struggle of the national party, first under the-direction of the Muwallads, and then of the Christians,
to shake off the Arab and Berber yoke. During the remainder of the tenth century the strong administration
of Abdurrahman III., Hakem II., and the great Almanzor, gave the Christians no chance of raising
the cry of "Spain for the Spanish." The danger of a renewal of the rebellion once removed, the position
of the Christians does not seem to have been made any worse in consequence of their late disaffection,
and Abdurrahman, himself the son of a Christian mother, treated all parties in the revolt with great
leniency, even against the wishes and advice of the more devout Moslems. Almanzor, too, made himself respected, and
even liked, by his Christian subjects, and there is no doubt that
his victories over the Christian States in the North[1] were won very
largely with the aid of Christian soldiers.

His death was the signal for the disruption of the Spanish Khalifate,
and from 1010-1031, when the khalifate was finally extinguished, complete
anarchy prevailed in Saracen Spain.

The Berbers made a determined effort to regain their ascendency, and
their forces, seconded by the Christians, succeeded in placing Suleiman
on the throne in 1013.

A succession of feeble rulers, set up by the different factions--Arab,
Berber, and Slave--followed, until Hischem III. was forced to abdicate
in 1031, and the Umeyyade dynasty came to an end, after lasting 275
years.

By this time the Christians in the North had gathered themselves
together for a combined advance against the Saracen provinces, never
again to retrograde, scarcely even to be checked, till in 1492 fell
Granada, the last stronghold of the Moors in Spain.[2]

[1] Al Makkari,
ii. p. 214.

[2] In 1630 there was not a single Moslem left in Spain.--Al Makk., i.
p. 74.

CHAPTER IX.

CHRISTIANS AND MOSLEMS IGNORANT OF ONE ANOTHER'S CREED.

In spite of the close contact into which the Christians and Mohammedans were brought in Spain, and the numerous
conversions and frequent intermarriages between the two sections, no thorough knowledge seems to have
existed, on either side, of the creed of the other party. Such, at least, is the conclusion to which
we are driven, on reading the only direct records which remain on the subject among Arab and Christian
writers. These on the Christian side consist chiefly of quotations from a book on Mohammedanism
by the abbot Speraindeo in a work of his disciple, Eulogius;[1] and some rather incoherent denunciations
of Mohammed and his religion by Alvar,[2] another pupil of the abbot's. In these, as might be
expected, great stress is laid on the sensuality of Mohammed's paradise,[3]
and the lewdness of the Prophet himself.

As to the latter, though many of Gibbon's coarse sarcasms do not
rest on good authority, very little can be said for the Prophet.

But among other blasphemies attributed by Speraindeo to Mohammed
is one of which we find no mention in the Koran--the assertion, namely,
that he would in the next world be wedded to the Virgin Mary.

John, Bishop of Seville, is equally incorrect when, in a letter to
Alvar,[4] he alleges a promise on the part of Mohammed that he would,
like Christ, rise again from the dead; whereas his body, being neglected
by his relations, was devoured by dogs.

The Christian bishop does not hesitate to add--sepultus est in infernum--he
was buried in hell.[5]

[1] Eul., "Mem.

Sanct.," i. sec.

7.

[2] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," secs. 21-35.

[3] Ibid., secs. 23, 24. Mohammed's paradise was by no means wholly
sensual.--Sale's Koran.

Introd., p. 78.

[4] Sec 9.

[5] This shows the hatred of Christians for Mohammed, whom, says Eulogius ("Mem.
Sanct.," i. sec. 20), it would be every Christian's duty to kill, were
he alive on earth.

It is generally supposed that Mohammed could neither read nor write,
and this appears to have been the opinion of Alvar;[1] but the same
witness acknowledges that the Koran was composed in such eloquent
and beautiful language that even Christians could not help reading
and admiring it.[2]

On the important question of Mohammed's position
with regard to Christianity, Eulogius[3] at least formed a correct
judgment.

Mohammed, he tells us "blasphemously taught that Christ was the Word
of God,[4] and His Spirit;[5] a great prophet,[6] endowed with much
power from God;[7] like Adam in His creation,[8] but not equal to
God (the Creator);[9] and that by reason of His blameless[10] life,
being filled with the Holy Spirit,[11] He showed marvellous signs
and wonders through the power of God,[12] not working by His own Godhead,
but as a righteous Man, and an obedient servant,[13] obtaining much
power and might from the Almighty God through prayer."

[1] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," sec.

26.

[2] Ibid., sec. 29.

This is more than can be said at the present day.

[3] Eul., "Lib. Apol.," sec. 19.

[4] Koran, ch. iii. 40.

[5] Koran, ch. ii. 81, "strengthened with Holy Spirit."

[6] Kor., c. iii. 59.

[7]
Kor., c. iii. 45.

[8] Kor., c. iii. 50.

[9] Kor.,
c. ix. 33.

[10] Kor., c. iii.

[11] This is a mistake of Eulogius. See Sale's note on Koran, ch. ii.
81, note.

[12] Kor., ch. v. 110 ff.

[13] Koran, cc. iv. ad fin; xliii.

59.

Alvar is much more unfair to Mohammed than his friend Eulogius, and he even seems to have had a prejudiced idea[1]
that the Prophet set himself deliberately to preach doctrines the opposite of those taught by Christ.
It would be nearer to the truth to say that the divergence between the two codes of morals was due to
the natural ignorance of an illiterate Arabian, brought into contact only with an heretical form
of Christianity, the real doctrines of which he was therefore not likely to know.

According to Alvar, the sixth day of the week was chosen for the Mohammedan
holy day, because Christ suffered on that day.

We shall realise the absurdity of this when we consider the reverence in which Mohammed held the very name
of Christ, going so far even as to deny that Christ Himself was crucified
at all.[2] The true reason for selecting Friday, as alleged by Mohammed
himself, was, because the work of creation ended on that day.[3]

Again,
sensuality was preached, says Alvar, because Christ preached chastity.

But Mohammed cannot fairly be said to have preached sensuality, though his private life in this respect
was by no means pure.

Gluttony was advocated instead of fasting. A more baseless charge was never made; for
how can it be contended that Christianity enjoins fasting, while Islam
disapproves of it, in the face of such texts as Matthew ix.

The month of Ramadan shall ye fast." But Alvar goes on to make a more
astonishing statement still:--"Christ ordained that men should abstain from
their wives during a fast, while Mohammed consecrated those days to carnal
pleasure." Christ surely gives us no such injunction, though St Paul
does say something of the kind.

The Koran[6] explicitly says--"It is lawful for you on the night
of the fast to go in unto your wives; they are a garment unto you,
and you are a garment unto them."

We even find an incident recorded by an Arabian writer, where Yahya
ibn Yahya, the famous faqui, imposed a penance of a month's extra
fast on Abdurrahman II.

(822-852) for violating the Prophet's ordinance, that wives should
be abstained from during the fasting month.[7] Alvar, being a layman,
may perhaps be supposed not to have studied Mohammedanism critically,
and that his zeal was not according to knowledge is perhaps the best
explanation of the matter.

In
one place[8] he informs us of his intention of writing a book on
the Cobar,[9] but the work, if ever written, has not survived.

Nor is this much to be regretted, if we may judge by the wild remarks
he indulges in elsewhere[10] on this theme.

In that passage he seems to apply the obscure prophecy of Daniel[11]
to Mohammed, forgetting that verse 37 speaks of one who "shall regard
not the desire of women," a description hardly characteristic of Mohammed.

He identifies the God Maozim (Hebr.

Mauzim),
which our revised version (v. 38) translates the "God of fortresses"
with the Mohammedan Cobar;[12] and the strange god, whom he shall
acknowledge, Alvar identifies with the devil which inspired the Prophet
in the guise of the angel Gabriel.

All this, as the
writer himself allows, is very enigmatical.

[1] See Dozy, ii. 107.

[2] See Koran, cc. iii.

47; iv. 157; and Sale's notes.

[3] See Sale's note on Koran, c. lxii. 9.

[4] Cf. also
Matt. xi.

[5] Chapter ii. 180.

[6] Chapter ii. 185. The Mohammedan fast
is confined to the day time.

[7] From Ibn Khallekan, apud Dozy, ii. 108.

[8] "Ind. Lum.," sec. 25.

[9] I.e., the Caaba apparently.

[10] "Ind. Lum.," sec. 25, ff.

[11] C. xi. vv. 21, ff.

[12] ? Caaba.

Alvar does not scruple even to accuse the Moslems of idolatry, asserting
that the Arabian tribes worship their idol (the Caaba black stone[1])
as they used to do of yore, and that they set apart a holy month,
Al Mozem, in honour of this idol.[2]

Finally, Mohammed is spoken
of variously as the precursor of Antichrist,[3] or as Antichrist himself.[4]

Let
us now see how far we can gather the opinions of educated Moslems
with regard to Christian doctrine and worship.

If we find these to be no less one-sided and erroneous than the opinions
of Christians as to Mohammedanism, yet can we the more easily excuse
the Moslems, for the Koran itself, the very foundation and guide of
all their religious dogmas, is full of incorrect and inconsistent
notions on the subject.

The most important of these mistakes was that the Christians worshipped
a Trinity of Deities--God, Christ, Mary.[5] The inclusion of the
Virgin Mary into this Trinity was perhaps due to the fact that worship
was paid to her even at that early date, as it certainly is among the
Roman Catholics at this day. As will have been seen from a passage
quoted above,[6] something very like adoration was already paid to
the Virgin in the churches of Spain.

[1] Sale, Introduction to Koran, p. 91.

[2] Alvar, "Ind. Lum.," sec. 25.

[3] Ibid., sec. 21.

[4] Ibid., sec. 53.

[6] P. 56.

But the following extract from a treatise on Religions, by Ali ibn
Hazm,[1] the prime minister of Abdurrahman V. (Dec. 1023-March 1024), will
show that some educated Moslems knew enough of the Christian creed
to appreciate its difficulties:--"We need not be astonished," says Ibn Hazm,
"at the superstition of men. Look at the Christians! They are so numerous
that God only knows their numbers. They have among them men of great
intelligence, and princes of great ability. Nevertheless they believe
that three is one, and one is three; that one of the three is the Father,
another the Son, another the Spirit; that the Father is, and is not, the
Son; that a man is, and is not, God; that the Messiah is God in every
respect, and yet not the same as God; that He who has existed from all
eternity has been created.

"One of their sects, the members of which they call Jacobites, and
which number hundreds of thousands, believes even that the Creator
Himself was scourged, crucified, and put to death; so that the Universe
for three days was deprived of its Governor."

Another extract from an Arabic writer will show us what the Moslems thought
of the worship of St James, the patron saint of Spain, round whose
shrine rallied the religious revival in the north of the Peninsula.
It is Ibn Hayyan,[2] who, in his account of Almanzor's fiftieth expedition
against the Christians, says:--"Shant Yakoh (Santiago)[3] is one of
the sanctuaries most frequented, not only by the Christians of Andalus,
but of the neighbouring continent, who look upon its church with a
veneration such as Moslems entertain for the Caaba of Mecca; for their
Caaba is a colossal idol (statue) which stands in the middle of the
church.

They swear by it, and repair to it in pilgrimage
from the most distant parts, from Rome, as well as other countries
beyond Rome, pretending that the tomb to be seen in the church is
that of Yakob (James), one of the twelve apostles, and the most beloved
by Isa (Jesus).--May the blessing of God be on him, and on our Prophet!--The
Christians call this Yakob the brother of Jesus, because, while he
lived, he was always with him.

They say that he was Bishop of Jerusalem, and that he wandered over
the earth preaching the religion [of Christ], and calling upon the
inhabitants to embrace it, till he came to that remote corner of Andalus;
that he then returned to Syria, where he died at the age of 120 solar
years.

They pretend likewise
that, after the death of Yakob, his disciples carried his body and
buried it in that church, as the most remote part, where he had left
traces [of his preaching]."

[1] II. 227, apud Dozy, iii. 342. Ibn Hazm was, says Dozy, "a strict Moslem,
averse to judging divine questions by human reasoning."

[2] Al Makkari, ii. 293.

[3] Miss Yonge, p. 87, says the Arabs called him Sham Yakub, but what
authority has this statement?

In a country where literature and the arts were so keenly cultivated,
as they were in Spain during the time of Arab domination, and where
the rivalry of Christian, Jew, and Moslem produced a sustained period
of intellectual activity such as the world has rarely seen, controversial
theology could not fail to have been largely developed. But the books,
if any were written, from the Christian or Moslem standpoint, have
all perished, and we have only such slight and unsatisfactory notices left
to us as those already quoted.

In estimating, therefore, what influences the rival religions of Spain
had upon each other, we are driven to draw such inferences as we can
from the meagre hints furnished to us by the writers of the period;
from our knowledge of what Christianity was in Spain, and Mohammedanism
in Africa, before they were brought into contact in Andalusia, compared
with what they became after that contact had made itself felt; and
from the observed effects of such relations elsewhere.

Upon a careful consideration of these scattered hints we shall see
that certain effects were visible, which, had the amalgamation of
the two peoples been allowed to continue uninterruptedly for a longer
period, and had there been no disturbing element in the north of Spain
and in Africa, would in all probability have led to some marked modification
in one or both religions, and even to their nearer assimilation.

CHAPTER IX.

HERESIES IN SPAIN.

Such mixtures of religions are by no means without example in history. The
Sabians, for instance, were the followers of a religion, which may have
been a cross between Judaism, Christianity, and Magianism.[1] But
Mohammedanism itself has furnished the most marked instances of such
amalgamation.

In
Persia Islam combined with the creed of Zoroaster to produce Babyism; while
in India Hinduism and Mohammedanism, fused together by the genius of
Nanak Guru, have resulted in Sikhism.

It may be said that Mohammedanism has been able to unite with Zoroastrianism
and Hinduism owing to their very dissimilarity with itself, whereas Christianity
is too near akin to Islam to combine with it in such a way as to produce
a religion like both, and yet different from either.[2] Christianity
and Mohammedanism, each have two cardinal doctrines (and two only)
which cannot be abrogated if they are to remain distinctive creeds.
In one of these, the unity of God, they agree. In the other they do,
and always must, differ. The divinity of Christ on the one side, and the
divine mission of Mohammed on the other, are totally incompatible doctrines.
If the one is true, the other cannot be so. Surrender both, and the
result is Judaism. No compromise would seem possible. Yet a compromise
was attempted, if we can credit a statement attributed by Dozy to
Ibn Khaldun,[3] in recounting the history of the successful rebel,
Abdurrahman ibn Merwan ibn Yunas, who during the last quarter of the ninth
century, while all Moslem Spain was a prey to the wildest anarchy,
became a leader of the renegade or Muwallad party in Merida and the
neighbourhood. Thinking to unite the Muwallads and Christians in
one revolt, he preached to his countrymen a new religion, which held a place
halfway between Christianity and Islam. This is all we are told of an
endeavour, which might have led to the most important consequences.

That we
hear no more of it is evidence enough that the attempt proved abortive.
The only other attempt, if it can be called so, to combine Islam and Christianity
has resulted in that curious compound called the religion of the
Druses.

[1] For an attempted compromise between Christianity and Brahmanism,
see the proceedings of Beschi, a Roman Catholic priest, "Education
and Missions," p. 14.

[2]
Cp., however, the Druse religion.

[3] Dozy, ii. 184. Dozy adds that Abdurrahman was called the Galician (el
Jaliki) in consequence of this attempt of his: but there is some
error here, as Ibn Hayyan (see Al Makkari, ii.

439, and De Gayangos' note) says he was called ibn ul'jaliki,
i.e., of the stock of the Galicians.
But though no religion, holding a position midway between Islam and
Christianity, arose in Spain, yet those religions could hardly fail
to undergo considerable modifications in themselves by reason of their
close contact for several centuries.

In respect to Christianity we
shall naturally find the traces (if any) of such modification in the
so-called heresies which may have arisen in Spain during this period.  He awaited them with a face from which he was
conscious of not being able quite to banish this idea that they would have gone on, not seeing
and not knowing, missing their dinner and disappointing their hostess, had he himself taken
a line to match. That at least was what darkened his vision for the moment.  Afterwards, after
they had bumped at the landing-place and he had assisted their getting ashore, everything found
itself sponged over by the mere miracle of the encounter.

They could so much better at last, on either side, treat it as a wild extravagance of hazard,
that the situation was made elastic by the amount of explanation called into play.  Why indeed--apart
from oddity--the situation should have been really stiff was a question naturally not practical
at the moment, and in fact, so far as we are concerned, a question tackled, later on and in
private, only by Strether himself.  He was to reflect later on and in private that it was mainly
HE who had explained--as he had had moreover comparatively little difficulty in doing.  He
was to have at all events meanwhile the worrying thought of their perhaps secretly suspecting
him of having plotted this coincidence, taking such pains as might be to give it the semblance
of an accident.  That possibility--as their imputation--didn't of course bear looking into
for an instant; yet the whole incident was so manifestly, arrange it as they would, an awkward
one, that he could scarce keep disclaimers in respect to his own presence from rising to his
lips. Disclaimers of intention would have been as tactless as his presence was practically
gross; and the narrowest escape they either of them had was his lucky escape, in the event,
from making any.  Nothing of the sort, so far as surface and sound were involved, was even
in question; surface and sound all made for their common ridiculous good fortune, for the general
invraisemblance of the occasion, for the charming chance that they had, the others, in passing,
ordered some food to be ready, the charming chance that he had himself not eaten, the charming
chance, even more, that their little plans, their hours, their train, in short, from la-bas,
would all match for their return together to Paris.  The chance that was most charming of all,
the chance that drew from Madame de Vionnet her clearest, gayest "Comme cela se trouve!" was
the announcement made to Strether after they were seated at table, the word given him by their
hostess in respect to his carriage for the station, on which he might now count.  It settled
the matter for his friends as well; the conveyance--it WAS all too lucky!--would serve for
them; and nothing was more delightful than his being in a position to make the train so definite.
It might have been, for themselves--to hear Madame de Vionnet--almost unnaturally vague, a
detail left to be fixed; though Strether indeed was afterwards to remember that Chad had promptly
enough intervened to forestall this appearance, laughing at his companion's flightiness and
making the point that he had after all, in spite of the bedazzlement of a day out with her,
known what he was about.

Strether was to remember afterwards further that this had had for him the effect of forming
Chad's almost sole intervention; and indeed he was to remember further still, in subsequent
meditation, many things that, as it were, fitted together.  Another of them was for instance
that the wonderful woman's overflow of surprise and amusement was wholly into French, which
she struck him as speaking with an unprecedented command of idiomatic turns, but in which she
got, as he might have said, somewhat away from him, taking all at once little brilliant jumps
that he could but lamely match.  The question of his own French had never come up for them;
it was the one thing she wouldn't have permitted--it belonged, for a person who had been through
much, to mere boredom; but the present result was odd, fairly veiling her identity, shifting
her back into a mere voluble class or race to the intense audibility of which he was by this
time inured.  When she spoke the charming slightly strange English he best knew her by he seemed
to feel her as a creature, among all the millions, with a language quite to herself, the real
monopoly of a special shade of speech, beautifully easy for her, yet of a colour and a cadence
that were both inimitable and matters of accident. FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 7: The word soma, observes Mgr. Capel, is never used in Greek
to express mere association or aggregation (Catholic, p. 13).]

[Footnote
8: From a Pastoral of the Swiss Bishops, which received the Pope's
approbation.]

CHAPTER VI.

THE POPE'S ORDINARY AUTHORITY.

1. When the Holy Father speaks ex cathedrâ, and defines any doctrine
concerning Faith or Morals, we are bound to receive his teaching
with the assent of divine faith: and cannot refuse obedience, without
being guilty of heresy. For any one who demands
plot there is one--of such gigantic dimensions, indeed, that it is not easy to grasp it, but seen
to be singularly well articulated and put together when it is once grasped. Huge as it is, it is
not in the least formless, and, as has been several times pointed out, hardly the most (as it may at first appear) wanton
and unpardonable episode, digression, or inset lacks its due connection
with and "orientation" towards the end.

The contrast of this with the more or less formless chronicle-fashion,
the "overthwart and endlong" conduct, of almost all the romances from
the Carlovingian and Arthurian[193] to the Amadis type, is of the
most unmistakable kind.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any real live sense,
is terribly wanting still; though description is a little general and wants
more "streaks in the tulip"; and though conversation is formal and stilted,
there is evident, perhaps even in the first, certainly in the second and third
cases, an effort to treat them at any rate systematically, in accordance
with some principles of art, and perhaps even not without some eye to the actual habits,
manners, demands of the time--things which again were quite new in
prose fiction, and, in fact, could hardly be said to be anywhere present
in literature outside of drama.

To set against these not so very small merits in the present, and very
considerable seeds of promise for the future, there are, of course, serious
faults or defects--defaults which need, however, less insistence, because
they are much more generally known, much more obvious, and have been
already admitted.

The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt with at all. It has already
been said that the most interesting point about it is the opportunity of
discovering how it was, in part, a regular, and, in fact, almost the
furthest possible, development of a characteristic which had been more or
less observable throughout the progress of romance. But it may be added
that the law of supply and demand helped; for people evidently were
not in the least bored by bulk, and that the fancy for having a book
"on hand" has only lately, if it has actually, died out.[194] Now
such a "book on hand" as the Grand Cyrus exists, as far as my knowledge
goes, in no Western literature, unless you count collections of letters,
which is not fair, or such memoirs as Saint-Simon's, which do not
appeal to quite the same class of readers.

A far more serious default or defect--not exactly blameworthy, because the time was not
yet, but certainly to be taken account of--is the almost utter want of
character just referred to. From Cyrus and Mandane downwards the people
have qualities; but qualities, though they are necessary to character, do
not constitute it. Very faint approaches may be discerned, by very benevolent
criticism, in such a personage as Martésie with her shrewdness, her
maid-of-honour familiarity with the ways and manners of courtly human
beings, and that very pardonable, indeed agreeable, tendency, which
has been noticed or imagined, to flirt in respectful fashion with Cyrus,
while carrying on more regular business with Feraulas. But it is little
more than a suggestion, and it has been frankly admitted that it
is perhaps not even that, but an imagination merely.

And the same observation may apply to her "second string," Doralise.
No others of the women have any character at all, and we have already
spoken of the men.

Now these things, in a book very widely read and immensely admired, could not, and did not, fail to have
their effect. Nobody--we shall see this more in detail in the next
chapter--can fail to perceive that the Princesse de Clèves itself
is, from one point of view, only a histoire of the Grand Cyrus, taken
out of its preposterous matrix of other matter, polished, charged
with a great addition of internal fire of character and passion, and
left to take its chance alone and unencumbered.

Nobody, on
the other hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle de Scudéry can doubt the influence of the
French book--a century old as it was--on the "father of the English novel."
Now any influence exerted on these two was, beyond controversy, an
influence exerted on the whole future course of the kind, and it is
as exercising such an influence that we have given to the Great Cyrus
so great a space.

* * * * *

[Sidenote: The other Scudéry romances--Ibrahim.]

After the exhaustive account given of Artamène, it is probably not necessary
to apologise for dealing with the rest of Mlle. de Scudéry's novel
work, and with that of her comrades in the Heroic romance, at no very
great length.

Ibrahim ou L'Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented as showing
more endeavour, if not exactly at "local colour," at technical accuracy,
than the rest.

It is true that the French were, at this time, rather amusingly proud
of being the only Western nation treated on something like equal terms
by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys (possibly Georges, whose
work the Dedication to Mlle. de Rohan, daughter of the famous soldier,
pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains to acquire knowledge.

"Sandjak" (or "Sanjiac"), not for a district but for its governor,
is a little unlucky perhaps; but "Aderbion" is much nearer "Azerbaijan"
than one generally expects in such cases from French writers of the
seventeenth or even of other centuries.

The Oriental
character of the story, however, is but partial. The Illustrious Pasha
himself, though First Vizir and "victorious" general of Soliman the
Second, is not a Turk at all, but a "Justinian" or Giustiniani of
Genoa, whose beloved Isabelle is a Princess of Monaco, and who at
the end, after necessary dangers,[195] retires with her to that Principality,
with a punctilious explanation from the author about the Grimaldis.

The scene is partly there and at Genoa--the best Genoese families, including the Dorias, appearing--partly
at Constantinople: and the business at the latter place is largely
concerned with the intrigues, jealousies, and cruelties of Roxelane,
who is drawn much more (one regrets to say) as history paints her than
as the agreeable creature of Marmontel's subsequent fancy. The book
is a mere cockboat beside the mighty argosy of the Cyrus, running
only to four volumes and some two thousand pages.

But though smaller, it is much "stodgier." The Histoires break out
at once with the story of a certain Alibech--much more proper for
the young person than that connected with the same name by Boccaccio,--and
those who have acquired some knowledge of Mlle.

Madeleine's ways will know what it means when, adopting the improper but defensible practice of "looking
at the end," they find that not merely "Justinian" and Isabelle, but
a Horace and a Hypolite, a Doria and a Sophronie, an Alphonse and a
Léonide are all married on the same day, while a "French Marquis"
and an Emilie vow inviolable but celibate constancy to each other;
they will know, that is to say, that in the course of the book all
these will have been duly "historiated."

To encourage them, a single hint that Léonide sometimes plays a little
of the parts of Martésie and Doralise in the Cyrus may be thrown in.

There
is, however, one sentence in the second volume of Ibrahim which is worth
quotation and brief comment, because it is a text for the whole management
and system of these novels, and accounts for much in their successors
almost to the present day. Emilie is telling the Histoire of Isabelle,
and excuses herself for not beginning at the beginning: "Puisque
je sais que vous n'ignorez pas l'amour du Prince de Masseran, les
violences et les artifices de Julie, la trahison de Féliciane, le
généreux ressentiment de Doria [this is another Doria], la mort de
cet amant infortuné, et ensuite celle de Julie."

In other words, all these things have been the subject of previous histories
or of the main text. And so it is always. Diderot admired, or at least excused,
that procedure of Richardson's which involved the telling of the conversation
of an average dinner-party in something like a small volume. But the "Heroic"
method would have made it necessary to tell the previous experiences
of the lady you took down to dinner, and the man that you talked
to afterwards, while, if extended from aristocratic to democratic
ideas, it would have justified a few remarks on the cabmen who brought
both, and the butcher and fishmonger who supplied the feast.

The inconvenience of this earlier practice made itself felt, and by
degrees it dropped off; but it was succeeded by a somewhat similar
habit of giving the subsequent history of personages introduced--a thing
which, though Scott satirised it in Mrs. Martha Buskbody's insistence
on information about the later history of Guse Gibbie,[196] by no means
ceased with his time.

Both were, in fact, part of the general refusal to accept the conditions
of ordinary life.

If "tout passe" is an exaggeration, it is an exaggeration of the truth:
and in fiction, as in fact, the minor shapes must dissolve as well as arise
without too much fuss being made about them.[197]

[Sidenote: Almahide.]

Almahide
is, I think, more readable than Ibrahim; but the English reader must
disabuse himself of the idea (if he entertains it) that he will find
much of the original of The Conquest of Granada.

The book does, indeed, open like the play, with the faction-fights of Abencerrages
and Zegrys, and it ends with Boabdelin's jealousy of his wife Almahide,
while a few of the other names in both are identical. But Almahide
contains nothing, or hardly anything, of the character of Almanzor, and
Dryden has not attempted to touch a hundredth part of the copious
matter of the French novel, the early history of Almahide, the usual
immense digressions and side-histoires, the descriptions (which, as
in Ibrahim, play, I think, a larger relative part than in the Cyrus),
and what not.

[Sidenote: Clélie.]

[Sidenote: Perhaps the liveliest of the set.]

Copious as these are, however, in both books, they do not fill them
out to anything like the length of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival
in size, and perhaps superior in attraction, the Clélie.

I do not plead guilty to inconsistency or change of opinion in this "perhaps"
when it is compared with the very much larger space given to the earlier
novel.

Le Grand Cyrus has been estated too firmly, as the type and representative
of the whole class, to be dislodged, and there is, as we shall see
presently, a good deal of repetition from it in Clélie itself. But
this latter is the more amusing book of the two; it is, though equally
or nearly as big, less labyrinthine; there is somewhat livelier movement
in it, and at the same time this is contrasted with a set or series
of interludes of love-casuistry, which are better, I think, than anything
of the kind in the Cyrus.[198] The most famous feature of these is,
of course, the well-known but constantly misnamed "Carte de Tendre"

("Map of the Country of Tenderness"--not of "Tenderness in the aibstract,"
as du Tendre would be). The discussion of what constitutes Tenderness
comes quite early; there is later a notable discourse on the respective
attractions of Love and of Glory or Ambition; a sort of Code and Anti-code
of lovers[199] occurs as "The Love-Morality of Tiramus," with a set
of (not always) contrary criticism thereof; and a debate of an almost
mediaeval kind as to the respective merits of merry and melancholy
mistresses. Moreover, there is a rather remarkable "Vision of Poets"--past,
present, and to come--which should be taken in connection with the
appearance, as an actual personage, of Anacreon.

All this, taken in conjunction with the "business" of the story,
helps to give it the superior liveliness with which it has, rightly
or wrongly, been credited here.

[Sidenote: Rough outline of it.]

Of that business itself a complete account cannot, for reasons given
more than once, be attempted; though anybody who wants such a thing,
without going to the book itself, may find it in the places also above
mentioned.

There is no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake person as (v. inf.) in La Calprenède's
chief books. Clélie is the real Clelia, if the modern historical
student will pass "real" without sniffing, or even if he will not.
Her lover, "Aronce," although he probably may be a little disguised from
the English reader by his spelling, is so palpably the again real
"Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather wonders how his identity can
have been so long concealed in French (where the pronunciations would
be practically the same) from the readers of the story.

The book begins with a proceeding not quite so like that of the Cyrus as some to be mentioned later,
but still pretty close to the elder overture. "The illustrious Aronce and the adorable Clelia" are actually
going to be married, when there is a fearful storm, an earthquake, and
a disappearance of the heroine. She has, of course, been carried off; one
might say, without flippancy, of any heroine of Madeleine de Scudéry's
not only that she was, as in a famous and already quoted saying, "very
liable to be carried off," but that it was not in nature that she should
not be carried off as early and as often as possible.

And her abductor is no less a person than Horatius--our own Horatius Cocles--the one who kept the bridge
in some of the best known of English verses, not he who provoked, from the sister whom he murdered, the greatest
speech in all French tragedy before, and perhaps not merely before, Victor
Hugo.

Horatius is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was bound to be,
an infinitely better fellow and of a better fate. Of course the end knits
straight on to the beginning. Clélie and Aronce are united without
an earthquake, and Porsena, with obliging gallantry, resigns the
crown of Clusium (from which he has himself long been kept out by
a "Mezentius," who will hardly work in with Virgil's), not to Aronce,
but to Clélie herself.

The enormous interval between (the
book is practically as long as the Cyrus) is occupied by the same, or
(v. sup.) nearly the same tissue of delays, digressions, and other
maze-like devices for setting you off on a new quest when you seem
to be quite close to the goal.

A large part of the scene is in Carthage, where, reversing the process in regard to
Mezentius, Asdrubals and Amilcars make their appearance in a very "mixedly" historical
fashion. A Prince of Numidia (who had heard of Numidia in Tarquin's days?) fights
a lively water-combat with Horatius actually as he is carrying Clélie
off, over the Lake of Thrasymene. All the stock legends of the Porsena
siege and others are duly brought in: and the atrocious Sextus, not contented
with his sin against Lucrèce, tries to carry off Clélie likewise, but is
fortunately or wisely prevented. Otherwise the invariable propriety
which from the time of the small love-novels (v. sup. pp. 157-162)
had distinguished these abductions might possibly have been broken
through.

These outlines might be expanded (and the process would not be very painful
to me) into an abstract quite as long as that of Cyrus; but "It Cannot
Be."

One objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must
be allowed against Clélie.

That tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements--which
has shown itself so often, and which practically distinguishes the
very great novelists from those not so great by its absence or presence--is
obvious here, though the huge size of the book may conceal it from
mere dippers, unless they be experts.

The similarity of the openings is, comparatively speaking, a usual
thing. It should not happen, and does not in really great writers;
but it is tempting, and is to some extent excused by the brocard
about le premier pas.

It is so nice to put yourself in front of your beginning--to have made
sure of it! But this charity will hardly extend to such a thing as
the repetition of Cyrus's foolish promise to fight Philidaspes before
he marries Mandane in the case of Aronce, Horatius, and Clélie. The way
in which Aronce is kept an "unknown" for some time, and that in which
his actual relationship to Porsena is treated, have also too much of
the replica; and though a lively skirmish with a pirate which occurs
is not quite so absurd as that ready-made series of encores which
was described above (pp. 181-2), there is something a little like
it in the way in which the hero and his men alternately reduce the
enemy to extremity, and run over the deck to rescue friends who are
in the pirates' power from being butchered or flung overboard.

"Sapho's" invention, though by no means sterile, was evidently somewhat indiscriminate, and she would seem
to have thought it rather a pity that a good thing should be used
only once.

Nevertheless the compliment given above may be repeated. If I were sent
to twelve months' imprisonment of a mild description, and allowed to choose
a library, I should include in it, from the heroic or semi-heroic
division, Clélie, La Calprenède's two chief books, Gomberville's
Polexandre, and Gombauld's Endimion (this partly for the pictures),
with, as a matter of course, the Astrée, and a choice of one other.

By reading slowly and "savouring" the process, I should imagine that, with one's memories of
other things, they might be able to last for a year. And it would be one of the best kind of fallows
for the brain. In anticipation, let us see something of these others now.

[Sidenote:
La Calprenède: his comparative cheerfulness.]

It has seemed, as was said, desirable to follow the common opinion of literary
history in giving Madeleine de Scudéry the place of honour, and the
largest as well as the foremost share in our account of this curious
stage in the history of the novel. But if, to alter slightly a famous quotation,
I might "give a short hint to an impartial reader," I should very
strongly advise him to begin his studies (or at least his enjoyment)
thereof, not with "Sapho," but with Gauthier de Costes, Seigneur de
la Calprenède, himself according to Tallemant almost the proverbial
"Gascon et demi"; a tragic dramatist, as well as a romantic writer;
a favourite of Mme. de Sévigné, who seldom went wrong in her preferences,
except when she preferred her very disagreeable daughter to her very
agreeable son; and more than any one else the inventor, or at least
perfecter, of the hectoring heroic style which we associate with Dryden's
plays.

 He should soon be going to where such things were not, and it
would be a small mercy for memory, for fancy, to have, in that stress, a loaf on the shelf.
He knew in advance he should look back on the perception actually sharpest with him as on the
view of something old, old, old, the oldest thing he had ever personally touched; and he also
knew, even while he took his companion in as the feature among features, that memory and fancy
couldn't help being enlisted for her. She might intend what she would, but this was beyond
anything she could intend, with things from far back--tyrannies of history, facts of type,
values, as the painters said, of expression--all working for her and giving her the supreme
chance, the chance of the happy, the really luxurious few, the chance, on a great occasion,
to be natural and simple.  She had never, with him, been more so; or if it was the perfection
of art it would never--and that came to the same thing--be proved against her.

What was truly wonderful was her way of differing so from time to time without detriment to
her simplicity.  Caprices, he was sure she felt, were before anything else bad manners, and
that judgement in her was by itself a thing making more for safety of intercourse than anything
that in his various own past intercourses he had had to reckon on.  If therefore her presence
was now quite other than the one she had shown him the night before, there was nothing of violence
in the change--it was all harmony and reason.  It gave him a mild deep person, whereas he had
had on the occasion to which their interview was a direct reference a person committed to movement
and surface and abounding in them; but she was in either character more remarkable for nothing
than for her bridging of intervals, and this now fell in with what he understood he was to
leave to her.  The only thing was that, if he was to leave it ALL to her, why exactly had she
sent for him?  He had had, vaguely, in advance, his explanation, his view of the probability
of her wishing to set something right, to deal in some way with the fraud so lately practised
on his presumed credulity.  Would she attempt to carry it further or would she blot it out?
Would she throw over it some more or less happy colour; or would she do nothing about it at
all?  He perceived soon enough at least that, however reasonable she might be, she wasn't vulgarly
confused, and it herewith pressed upon him that their eminent "lie," Chad's and hers, was simply
after all such an inevitable tribute to good taste as he couldn't have wished them not to render.
Away from them, during his vigil, he had seemed to wince at the amount of comedy involved;
whereas in his present posture he could only ask himself how he should enjoy any attempt from
her to take the comedy back.  He shouldn't enjoy it at all; but, once more and yet once more,
he could trust her.  That is he could trust her to make deception right.  As she presented
things the ugliness--goodness knew why--went out of them; none the less too that she could
present them, with an art of her own, by not so much as touching them.  She let the matter,
at all events, lie where it was--where the previous twenty-four hours had placed it; appearing
merely to circle about it respectfully, tenderly, almost piously, while she took up another
question.

She knew she hadn't really thrown dust in his eyes; this, the previous night, before they separated,
had practically passed between them; and, as she had sent for him to see what the difference
thus made for him might amount to, so he was conscious at the end of five minutes that he had
been tried and tested.  She had settled with Chad after he left them that she would, for her
satisfaction, assure herself of this quantity, and Chad had, as usual, let her have her way.
Chad was always letting people have their way when he felt that it would somehow turn his wheel
for him; it somehow always did turn his wheel.  Strether felt, oddly enough, before these facts,
freshly and consentingly passive; they again so rubbed it into him that the couple thus fixing
his attention were intimate, that his intervention had absolutely aided and intensified their
intimacy, and that in fine he must accept the consequence of that.  He had absolutely become,
himself, with his perceptions and his mistakes, his concessions and his reserves, the droll
mixture, as it must seem to them, of his braveries and his fears, the general spectacle of
his art and his innocence, almost an added link and certainly a common priceless ground for
them to meet upon.  It was as if he had been hearing their very tone when she brought out a
reference that was comparatively straight. "The last twice that you've been here, you know,
I never asked you," she said with an abrupt transition--they had been pretending before this
to talk simply of the charm of yesterday and of the interest of the country they had seen.
The effort was confessedly vain; not for such talk had she invited him; and her impatient reminder
was of their having done for it all the needful on his coming to her after Sarah's flight.
What she hadn't asked him then was to state to her where and how he stood for her; she had
been resting on Chad's report of their midnight hour together in the Boulevard Malesherbes.
The thing therefore she at present desired was ushered in by this recall of the two occasions
on which, disinterested and merciful, she hadn't worried him.  To-night truly she WOULD worry
him, and this was her appeal to him to let her risk it.  He wasn't to mind if she bored him
a little: she had behaved, after all--hadn't she?--so awfully, awfully well.

II

"Oh, you're all right, you're all right," he almost impatiently declared; his impatience being
moreover not for her pressure, but for her scruple.  More and more distinct to him was the
tune to which she would have had the matter out with Chad:  more and more vivid for him the
idea that she had been nervous as to what he might be able to "stand." Yes, it had been a question
if he had "stood" what the scene on the river had given him, and, though the young man had
doubtless opined in favour of his recuperation, her own last word must have been that she should
feel easier in seeing for herself.  That was it, unmistakeably; she WAS seeing for herself.
What he could stand was thus, in these moments, in the balance for Strether, who reflected,
as he became fully aware of it, that he must properly brace himself.  He wanted fully to appear
to stand all he might; and there was a certain command of the situation for him in this very
wish not to look too much at sea. She was ready with everything, but so, sufficiently, was
he; that is he was at one point the more prepared of the two, inasmuch as, for all her cleverness,
she couldn't produce on the spot--and it was surprising--an account of the motive of her note. I sees
too many married troubles to mess up with such doings!

Sometimes the master sent me alone to the grinding mill.

Load in the yellow corn, hitch in the oxen, I was ready to go.

I gets me fixed up with a pass and takes to the road.

That was the trip I like best. On the way was a still.

Off in the bresh. If the still was lonely I stop, not on the way
to but on the way back.

Mighty good whiskey, too! Maybe I drinks too much, then I was sorry.

Not that I swipe the whiskey, just sorry because I gets sick! Then I figures
a woods camp meeting will steady me up and I goes.

The preacher meet me and want to know how is my feelings.

I says I is low with the misery and he say to join up with the Lord.

I
never join because he don't talk about the Lord.

Just about the Master and Mistress.

How the slaves must obey around the plantation--how the white folks know what is good for the
slaves. Nothing about obeying the Lord and working for him.

I reckon the old preacher was worrying more about the bull whip than
he was the Bible, else he say something about the Lord! But I always obeys
the Lord--that's why I is still living!

The slaves would pray for to get out of bondage. Some of them say the
Lord told them to run away.

Get to the North. Cross the Red River.

Over there would be folks to guide them to the Free State (Kansas).

The Lord never tell me to run away.

I never tried it, maybe, because mostly they was caught by patrollers
and fetched back for a flogging--and I had whippings enough already!

Before
the Civil War was the fighting with Mexico. Some of the troops on
they way south passed on the Military Road.

Wasn't any fighting around Linden or Jefferson during the time.

They was lots of traveling on the Military Road.

Most of the time you could see covered wagons pulled by mules and horses, and sometimes a crawling
string of wagons with oxen on the pulling end.

From up in Arkansas come the stage coach along the road. To San Antonio.
The drivers bring news the Mexicans just about all killed off and
the white folks say Texas was going to join the Union.

The
country's going to be run different they say, but I never see no difference.
Maybe, because I ain't white folks.

Wasn't many Mexicans around
the old plantation. Come and go. Lots of Indians.

Cherokees and Choctaws. Living in mud huts and cabin shacks. I never see them bother the whites,
it was the other way around.

During the Civil War, when the Red River was bank high with muddy
water, the Yankee's made a target of Jefferson.

That was a small town down south of Linden.

Down the river come a flat barge with cannon fastened to the deck. The Yankee soldiers stopped
across the river from Jefferson and the shooting started.

When the cannon went to popping the folks went arunning--hard to tell
who run the fastest, the whites or the blacks!

Almost the town was wiped out.

Buildings was smashed and big trees cut through with the cannon balls.

Before the Civil War everybody had money.

The white folks, not the negroes. Sometimes the master take me to the town stores. They was full of
money.

Cigar boxes on the counter, boxes on the shelf, all filled with money. Not the crinkley paper
kind, but hard, jingley gold and silver!

Not like these scarce times!

After the War I stay on the plantation 'til a soldier man tells me of the freedom. The master never tell
us--negroes working just like before the War.

That's when I leave the first time. Slip off, saying nothing, to Jefferson.
There I found some good white folks going to New Orleans. First place we
go is Shreveport, by wagon. They took me because I fix up with them
to do the cooking.

On to the Big River (Mississippi) and boards a river steamboat for
New Orleans.

Lots of negroes going down there--to work on the canal.

The whole town was built on logs covered with dirt. Trying to raise itself right out of the swamp.
Sometimes the water get high and folks run for the hills.

When I got there almost was I ready to leave.

I like Texas the best.
Back to Jefferson is where I go.

Fifteen-twenty mile below Linden. Almost the first person I see was Master
Davenport.

He says, "Black rascal, you is coming with me."

And I do.

He tried to keep his slaves and just laugh when I tell him about the freedom.
I worked for food and quarters 'til his meanness come cropping out
again.

That wasn't long and he threatened me with the whip and the buck and
gag.

The buck
and gag was maybe worse.

I got to feeling that iron stick in my mouth, fastened around my head with chains, pressing hard on my
tongue.

No drinking, no eating, no talking!

So I slip off again.

That night I goes through Linden. Crawling on my hands and knees! Keeping
in the dark spots, hiding from the whites, 'til I pass the last house,
then my feets hurries me to Jefferson, where I gets a ride to Arkansas.

In

Russelville is where I stop. There I worked around in the yards, cutting the grass, fancying
the flower beds, and earned a little money for clothes and eats,
with some of it spent for good whiskey.

That was the reason I left Arkansas. Whiskey.

The law got after me to tell where was a man's whiskey still.

I just leave so's I won't have to tell.

But while I was making a little money in Russelville, I lose out on
some big money, account some white folks beat me to it.

I was out in the hills west of town, walking along the banks of a
little creek, when I heard a voice.

Queer like. I called out who is that talking and I hears it again.

"Go
to the white oak tree and you will find Ninety Thousand Dollars!" That's
what I hear. I look around, nobody in sight, but I see the tree. A big
white oak tree standing taller than all the rest 'round about.

Under the tree was a grave. An old grave. I scratch around but finds
no money and thinks of getting some help.

I done some work for a white man in town and told him about the voice. He
promised to go with me, but the next day he took two white mens and
dug around the tree.

Then he says they was nothing to find.

To this day I know better. I know wherever they's a ghost, money is
around someplace!

That's what the ghost comes back for.

Somebody dies and leaves buried money. The ghost watches over it 'til it sees somebody it likes.
Then ghost shows himself--lets know he's around. Sometimes the ghost
tells where is the money buried, like that time at Russelville.

That ain't the only ghost I've seen or heard.

I see one around the yard where I is living now. A woman. Some of these times she'll tell me where the
buried money is.

Maybe the ghost woman thinks I is too old to dig. But I been a-digging
all these long years. For a bite to eat and a sleep-under cover.

I reckon pretty soon she's going to tell where to dig.

When
she does, then old Uncle John won't have to dig for the eats no more! Tulsa, Okla.

Iffen I could see better out'n my old eyes, and I had me something
to work with and de feebleness in my back and head would let me 'lone,
I would have me plenty to eat in de kitchen all de time, and plenty
tobaccy in my pipe, too, bless God!

And dey wouldn't be no rain trickling through de holes in de roof,
and no planks all fell out'n de flo' on de gallery neither, 'cause
dis one old nigger knows everything about making all he need to git
along!

Old Master done showed him how to git along in dis world, jest as long
as he live on a plantation, but living in de town is a different
way of living, and all you got to have is a silver dime to lay down for
everything you want, and I don't git de dime very often.

But I aint give up! Nothing like dat! On de days when I don't feel so feeble and trembly I jest keep patching
'round de place. I got to keep patching so as to keep it whar it will hold de winter out, in case
I git to see another winter.

Iffen I don't, it don't grieve me none, 'cause I wants to see old Master again anyways. I reckon maybe
I'll jest go up an ask him what he want me to do, and he'll tell me, and iffen I don't know how he'll
show me how, and I'll try to do it to please him. And when I git it done I wants to hear him grumble like he
used to and say, "Charley, you ain't got no sense but you is a good
boy.

Dis here ain't very good but it'll do, I reckon. Git yourself a little piece o'
dat brown sugar, but don't let no niggers see you eating it--if you
do I'll whup your black behind!"

Dat ain't de way it going be in Heaven, I reckon, but I can't set
here on dis old rottendy gallery and think of no way I better like
to have it!

I was a great big hulking buck of a boy when de War come along and bust up everything, and I can 'member
back when everybody was living peaceful and happy, and nobody never had no notion about no war.

I
was borned on the 'leventh of January, in 1843, and was old enough
to vote when I got my freedom, but I didn't take no stock in all dat
politics and goings on at dat time, and I didn't vote till a long
time after old Master passed away, but I was big enough before de
War to remember everything pretty plain.

Old Master name was John Williams, and old Mistress name was Miss Betty, and she was a Campbell before
she married.

Young
Missy was named Betty after her mommy, and Young Master was named Frank,
but I don't know who after.

Our overseer was Mr. Simmons, and he was mighty smart and had a lot
of patience, but he wouldn't take no talk nor foolishness. He didn't
whup nobody very often, but he only had to whup 'em jest one time!

He never did whup a nigger at de time the nigger done something, but he
would wait till evening and have old Master come and watch him do it.

He never whupped very hard 'cept when he had told a nigger about something and promised a whupping next
time and the nigger done it again. Then that nigger got what he had been hearing 'bout!

De plantation was about as big as any. I think it had about three hundred
acres, and it was about two miles northwest of Monroe, Louisiana.

Then he had another one not so big, two--three miles south of the big one,
kind of down in the woodsy part along the White river bottoms.

He had another overseer on that place and a big passel of niggers,
but I never did go down to that one.

That was where he raised most of his corn and shoats, and lots of sorghum
cane.

Our plantation was up on higher ground, and it was more open country, but still
they was lots of woods all around and lots of the plantations had been
whacked right out of de new ground and was full of stumps.

Master's place was more open, though, and all in the fields was good
plowing.

The big road runned right along past our plantation, and it come from
Shreveport and run into Monroe. There wasn't any town at Monroe
in them days, jest a little cross roads place with a general store
and a big hide house.

I think there
was about two big hide houses, and you could smell that place a
mile before you got into it. Old Master had a part in de store, I
think.

De hide houses was jest long sheds, all open along de sides and kivered
over wid cypress clapboards.

Down below de hide houses and de store was jest a little settlement
of one or two houses, but they was a school for white boys.

Somebody said there was a place where they had been an old fort, but I never
did see it.

Everything boughten we got come from Shreveport, and was brung in
by the stage and the freighters, and that was only a little coffee
or gunpowder, or some needles for the sewing, or some strap iron for
the blacksmith, or something like dat.

We
made and raised everything else we needed right on the place.

I never did even see any quinine till after I was free. My mammy knowed jest
what root to go out and pull up to knock de chills right out'n me.
And de bellyache and de running off de same way, too.

Our plantation was a lot different from some I seen other places, like
way east of there, around Vicksburg. Some of them was fixed up fancier
but dey didn't have no more comforts than we had.

Old Master come out into that country when he was a young man,
and they didn't have even so much then as they had when I was a boy.
I think he come from Alabama or Tennessee, and way back his people had
come from Virginia, or maybe North Carolina, 'cause he knowed all about
tobacco on the place. Cotton and tobacco was de long crops on his big
place, and of course lots of horses and cattle and mules.

De big house was made out'n square hewed logs, and chinked wid little
rocks and daubed wid white clay, and kivered wid cypress clapboards.
I remember one time we put on a new roof, and de niggers hauled up
de cypress logs and sawed dem and frowed out de clapboards by hand.

De house had two setting rooms on one side and a big kitchen room
on de other, wid a wide passage in between, and den about was de sleeping
rooms. They wasn't no stairways 'cepting on de outside. Steps run up
to de sleeping rooms on one side from de passageway and on de other side
from clean outside de house. Jest one big chimbley was all he had,
and it was on de kitchen end, and we done all de cooking in a fireplace
dat was purty nigh as wide as de whole room.

In de sleeping rooms day wasn't no fires 'cepting in brazers made
out of clay, and we toted up charcoal to burn in 'em when it was cold
mornings in de winter.

Dey kept warm wide de bed clothes and de knitten clothes dey had.

Master never did make a big gallery on de house, but our white folks would set
out in de yard under de big trees in de shade. They was long benches
made out'n hewed logs and all padded wid gray moss and corn shuck
padding, and dey set pretty soft.

All de furniture in de house was home-made, too. De beds had square posts
as big around as my shank and de frame was mortised into 'em, and
holes bored in de frame and home-made rope laced in to make it springy.

Den a great
big mattress full of goose feathers and two--three comforts as thick
as my foot wid carded wool inside! Dey didn't need no fireplaces!

De quarters was a little piece from de big house, and dey run along
both sides of de road dat go to de fields.

All one-room log cabins, but dey was good and warm, and every one had
a little open shed at de side whar we sleep in de summer to keep
cool.

They was two or three wells at de quarters for water, and some good
springs in de branch at de back of de fields.

You could ketch a fish now and den in dat branch, but Young Master
used to do his fishing in White River, and take a nigger or two along to
do de work at his camp.

It wasn't very fancy at de Big House, but it was mighty pretty jest de same,
wid de gray moss hanging from de big trees, and de cool green grass
all over de yard, and I can shet my old eyes and see it jest like
it was before de War come along and bust it up.

I can
see old Master setting out under a big tree smoking one of his long
cheroots his tobacco nigger made by hand, and fanning hisself wid his
big wide hat another nigger platted out'n young inside corn shucks
for him, and I can hear him holler at a big bunch of white geeses what's
gitting in his flower beds and see 'em string off behind de old gander
towards de big road.

When de day begin to crack de whole plantation break out wid all kinds
of noises, and you could tell what going on by de kind of noise you
hear.

Come de daybreak you hear de guinea fowls start potracking down at
de edge of de woods lot, and den de roosters all start up 'round de barn
and de ducks finally wake up and jine in. You can smell de sow belly
frying down at the cabins in de "row", to go wid de hoecake and de buttermilk.

Den
purty soon de wind rise a little, and you can hear a old bell donging
way on some plantation a mile or two off, and den more bells at other
places and maybe a horn, and purty soon younder go old Master's old
ram horn wid a long toot and den some short toots, and here come de
overseer down de row of cabins, hollering right and left, and picking
de ham out'n his teeth wid a long shiny goose quill pick.

Bells and horns! Bells for dis and horns for dat! All we knowed was go and come by de bells
and horns!

Old ram horn blow to send us all to de field. We all line up, about seventy-five
field niggers, and go by de tool shed and git our hoes, or maybe go hitch up de
mules to de plows and lay de plows out on de side so de overseer
can see iffen de points is shart.

Any plow gits broke or de point gits bungled up on de rocks it goes to de
blacksmith nigger, den we all git on down in de field.

Den de anvil start dangling in de blacksmith shop: "Tank!

Deling-ding! Tank! Deling-ding!", and dat ole bull tongue gitting straightened
out!

Course you can't hear de shoemaker awling and pegging, and de card spinners,
and de old mammy sewing by hand, but maybe you can hear de old loom
going "frump, frump", and you know it all right iffen your clothes
do be wearing out, 'cause you gwine git new britches purty soon!

We had about a hundred niggers on dat place, young and old, and about
twenty on de little place down below.

We could make about every kind of thing but coffee and gunpowder dat our whitefolks
and us needed.

When we needs a hat we gits inside cornshucks and weave one out, and
makes horse collars de same way.

Jest tie two little soft shucks together and begin plaiting.

All de cloth 'cepting de Mistress' Sunday dresses come from de sheep to de
carders and de spinners and de weaver, den we dye it wid "butternut" and
hickory bark and indigo and other things and set it wid copperas. Leather
tanned on de place made de shoes, and I never see a store boughten wagon
wheel 'cepting among de stages and de freighters along de big road.

We made purty, long back-combs out'n cow horn, and knitting needles out'n second
hickory.

Split
a young hickory and put in a big wedge to prize it open, then cut it down
and let it season, and you got good bent grain for wagon hames and
chair rockers and such.

It was jest like dat until I was grown, and den one day come a neighbor
man and say we in de War.

Little while young Master Frank ride over to Vicksburg and jine de Sesesh
army, but old Master jest go on lak nothing happen, and we all don't
hear nothing more until long come some Sesesh soldiers and take most
old Master's hosses and all his wagons.

I bin working on de tobacco, and when I come back to de barns everything
was gone.

I would go into de woods and git good hickory
and burn it till it was all coals and put it out wid water to make hickory
charcoal for curing de tobacco. I had me some charcoal in de fire
trenches under de curing houses, all full of new tobacco, and overseer
come and say bundle all de tobacco up and he going take it to Shreveport
and sell it befo' de soldiers take it too.

After de hosses all gone and most de cattle and de cotton and de tobacco
gone too, here come de Yankees and spread out all over de whole country.
Dey had a big camp down below our plantation.

One evening a big bunch
of Yankee officers come up to de Big House and old Master set out
de brandy in de yard and dey act purty nice. Next day de whole bunch
leave on out of dat part.

When de hosses and stuff all go old Master
sold all de slaves but about four, but he kept my pappy and mammy
and my brother Jimmie and my sister Betty. She was named after old
Mistress. Pappy's name was Charley and mammy's was Sally. De niggers
he kept didn't have much work without any hosses and wagons, but de
blacksmith started in fixing up more wagons and he kept them hid in
de woods till they was all fixed.

Den along come some more Yankees,
and dey tore everything we had up, and old Master was afeared to shoot
at them on account his womenfolks, so he tried to sneak the fambly
out but they kotched him and brung him back to de plantation.

We
niggers didn't know dat he was gone until we seen de Yankees bringing
dem back. De Yankees had done took charge of everything and was camping
in de big yard, and us was all down at de quarters scared to death,
but dey was jest letting us alone.

It was night when de white folks
tried to go away, and still night when de Yankees brung dem back,
and a house nigger come down to de quarters wid three--four mens in
blue clothes and told us to come up to de Big House.

De Yankees didn't
seem to be mad wid old Master, but jest laughed and talked wid him,
but he didn't take de jokes any too good.

Den dey asked him could
he dance and he said no, and dey told him to dance or make us dance.
Dar he stood inside a big ring of dem mens in blue clothes, wid dey
brass buttons shining in de light from de fire dey had in front of
de tents, and he jest stood and said nothing, and it look lak he wasn't
wanting to tell us to dance.

So some of us young bucks jest step
up and say we was good dancers, and we start shuffling while de rest
of de niggers pat.

Some nigger women go back to de quarters and git
de gourd fiddles and de clapping bones made out'n beef ribs, and bring
dem back so we could have some music. We git all warmed up and dance
lak we never did dance befo'! I speck we invent some new steps dat
night!

We act lak we dancing for de Yankees, but we trying to please
Master and old Mistress more than anything, and purty soon he begin
to smile a little and we all feel a lot better.

Next day de Yankees
move on away from our place, and old Master start gitting ready to
move out. We git de wagons we hid, and de whole passel of us leaves
out for Shreveport. Jest left de old place standing like it was.

In
Shreveport old Master git his cotton and tobacco money what he been
afraid to have sent back to de plantation when he sell his stuff,
and we strike out north through Arkansas.

Dat was de awfullest trip
any man ever make! We had to hide from everybody until we find out
if dey Yankees or Sesesh, and we go along little old back roads and
up one mountain and down another, through de woods all de way.

After
a long time we git to the Missouri line, and kind of cut off through
de corner of dat state into Kansas. I don't know how we ever git across
some of dem rivers but we did. Dey nearly always would be some soldiers
around de fords, and dey would help us find de best crossing. Sometimes
we had to unload de wagons and dry out de stuff what all got wet,
and camp a day or two to fix up again.

Purty soon we git to Fort
Scott, and that was whar de roads forked ever whichaways.  Therefore you're only beautifully
WITH us as always--though doubtless now, if she has talked to you, rather more with us than
less.  Of course if she came," he added, "it was to talk to you."

"It was to talk to me," Maria returned; on which he was further sure that she was practically
in possession of what he himself hadn't yet told her.  He was even sure she was in possession
of things he himself couldn't have told; for the consciousness of them was now all in her face
and accompanied there with a shade of sadness that marked in her the close of all uncertainties.
It came out for him more than ever yet that she had had from the first a knowledge she believed
him not to have had, a knowledge the sharp acquisition of which might be destined to make a
difference for him.  The difference for him might not inconceivably be an arrest of his independence
and a change in his attitude--in other words a revulsion in favour of the principles of Woollett.
She had really prefigured the possibility of a shock that would send him swinging back to Mrs.
Newsome.  He hadn't, it was true, week after week, shown signs of receiving it, but the possibility
had been none the less in the air.  What Maria accordingly had had now to take in was that
the shock had descended and that he hadn't, all the same, swung back.  He had grown clear,
in a flash, on a point long since settled for herself; but no reapproximation to Mrs. Newsome
had occurred in consequence.  Madame de Vionnet had by her visit held up the torch to these
truths, and what now lingered in poor Maria's face was the somewhat smoky light of the scene
between them. If the light however wasn't, as we have hinted, the glow of joy, the reasons
for this also were perhaps discernible to Strether even through the blur cast over them by
his natural modesty.  She had held herself for months with a firm hand; she hadn't interfered
on any chance--and chances were specious enough--that she might interfere to her profit.  She
had turned her back on the dream that Mrs. Newsome's rupture, their friend's forfeiture--the
engagement the relation itself, broken beyond all mending--might furnish forth her advantage;
and, to stay her hand from promoting these things, she had on private, difficult, but rigid,
lines, played strictly fair.  She couldn't therefore but feel that, though, as the end of all,
the facts in question had been stoutly confirmed, her ground for personal, for what might have
been called interested, elation remained rather vague.  Strether might easily have made out
that she had been asking herself, in the hours she had just sat through, if there were still
for her, or were only not, a fair shade of uncertainty.  Let us hasten to add, however, that
what he at first made out on this occasion he also at first kept to himself.  He only asked
what in particular Madame de Vionnet had come for, and as to this his companion was ready.

"She wants tidings of Mr. Newsome, whom she appears not to have seen for some days."

"Then she hasn't been away with him again?"

"She seemed to think," Maria answered, "that he might have gone away with YOU."

"And did you tell her I know nothing of him?"

She had her indulgent headshake.  "I've known nothing of what you know. I could only tell her
I'd ask you."

"Then I've not seen him for a week--and of course I've wondered." His wonderment showed at
this moment as sharper, but he presently went on. "Still, I dare say I can put my hand on him.
Did she strike you," he asked, "as anxious?"

"She's always anxious."

"After all I've done for her?"  And he had one of the last flickers of his occasional mild
mirth.  "To think that was just what I came out to prevent!"

She took it up but to reply.  "You don't regard him then as safe?"

"I was just going to ask you how in that respect you regard Madame de Vionnet."

She looked at him a little.  "What woman was EVER safe?  She told me," she added--and it was
as if at the touch of the connexion--"of your extraordinary meeting in the country.  After
that a quoi se fier?"

"It was, as an accident, in all the possible or impossible chapter," Strether conceded, "amazing
enough. These provisions, whatever the opinion entertained as to the wisdom
of such laws, are well within the principle laid down by the Fifteenth
Amendment.

But several Southern States have gone a step further, and by means
of the so-called 'grandfather laws,' have exempted certain ignorant white
men from the necessity of meeting the educational and property tests.
These unfair 'grandfather laws,' however, in some of the states adopting
them, have now expired by limitation.

Let me then lay down this general proposition:--

Nowhere in the South to-day is the Negro cut off LEGALLY, as a Negro,
from the ballot.

Legally, to-day, any Negro who can meet the comparatively slight requirements
as to education, or property, or both, can cast his ballot on a basis
of equality with the white man.

I have emphasized the word legally, for I know the PRACTICAL difficulties
which confront the Negro votes in many parts of the South. The point I wish to
make is that legally the Negro is essentially the political equal
of the white man; but that practically, in the enforcement of the
law, the legislative ideal is still pegged out far beyond the actual
performance.

Now, then, if we are interested in the problem of democracy, we have
two courses open to us. We may think the laws are unjust to the Negro, and
incidentally to the 'poor white' man as well. If we do, we have a perfect
right to agitate for changes; and we can do much to disclose, without
heat, the actual facts regarding the complicated and vexatious legislative
situation in the South, as regards the suffrage.

Every change in the legislation upon this subject should, indeed, be
jealously watched, that the principle of political equality between
the races be not legally curtailed.

The
doctrine laid down in the Fifteenth Amendment must, at any hazard,
be maintained.

But, personally,--and I am here voicing a profound conviction,--I think
our emphasis at present should be laid upon the practical rather
than upon the legal aspect of the problem; I think we should take
advantage of the widely prevalent feeling in the South that the question
of suffrage has been settled, legally, for some time to come: of the desire
on the part of many Southern people, both white and colored, to turn
aside from the discussion of the political status of the Negro.

In short, let us for the time being accept the laws as they are, and build
upward from that point. Let us turn our attention to the practical
task of finding out why it is that the laws we already have are not
enforced, and how best to secure an honest vote for every Negro and
equally for every 'poor white' man, who is able to meet the requirements,
but who for one reason or another does not or cannot now exercise
his rights.

I include the disfranchised white man as well as the Negro, because I
take it that we are interested, first of all, in democracy, and unless
we can arouse the spirit of democracy, South and North, we can hope
for justice neither for Negroes, nor for the poorer class of white
men, nor for the women of the factories and shops, nor for the children
of the cottonmills.

Taking up this side of the problem we shall discover two entirely distinct
difficulties:--
First, we shall find many Negroes, and indeed hundreds of thousands
of white men as well, who might vote, but who, through ignorance,
or inability or unwillingness to pay the poll-taxes, or from mere
lack of interest, disfranchise themselves.  "I wish SHE could hear you!"

"Mrs. Newsome?"

"No--not Mrs. Newsome; since I understand you that it doesn't matter now what Mrs. Newsome
hears.  Hasn't she heard everything?"

"Practically--yes." He had thought a moment, but he went on.  "You wish Madame de Vionnet could
hear me?"

"Madame de Vionnet." She had come back to him.  "She thinks just the contrary of what you say.
That you distinctly judge her."

He turned over the scene as the two women thus placed together for him seemed to give it. 
"She might have known--!"

"Might have known you don't?" Miss Gostrey asked as he let it drop. "She was sure of it at
first," she pursued as he said nothing; "she took it for granted, at least, as any woman in
her position would. But after that she changed her mind; she believed you believed--"

"Well?"--he was curious.

"Why in her sublimity.  And that belief had remained with her, I make out, till the accident
of the other day opened your eyes.  For that it did," said Maria, "open them--"

"She can't help"--he had taken it up--"being aware?  No," he mused; "I suppose she thinks of
that even yet."

"Then they WERE closed?  There you are!  However, if you see her as the most charming woman
in the world it comes to the same thing. And if you'd like me to tell her that you do still
so see her--!" Miss Gostrey, in short, offered herself for service to the end. 

The real Dr. Washington is buried in the graduates who sat at his feet and imbibed his spirit, and he lives
in them.

"King David, pondering over God's mercies and goodness to him, thinking
of how he had been taken from minding sheep and placed upon the throne
of Israel; and how God had guided and protected him and made his name great
in the earth, exclaimed reverently, one day, 'What shall I render unto the
Lord for all his benefits unto me?' and he answered his question,
in part, by saying: 'I will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence
of all the people.'

"If all our graduates could speak to-night, they
would have me pay their vows of gratitude for the opportunity to make
blessed and beautiful their lives, given by our great teacher; and
they would have me give public assurance of their fealty to the work
for which Mr. Washington gave his life.

"And so, Mr. Chairman, in the name of the Alumni Association and in
the spirit of him whose body lies buried just beyond those walls, I
pledge you and the Trustees the loyalty of the Tuskegee graduates
to whatever work they are called in connection with the realization
of Dr. Washington's great purpose.

I pledge you their support in the work which you have come to Tuskegee
to perform; because we are learning self-government and wish to help
prove to the world that we can pass the succession to the Principalship
here without revolution. By this time to-morrow night another prophet
will have been raised up to serve in the room of the great founder
of this school.

I want you, Sir, and the Board of Trustees to know that when the proclamation is made that
'The King is Dead!' our Alumni Association will be ready to reply:
'Long Live the King!' and we will faithfully, honestly, and loyally
support the person you elect to succeed our great father, whoever
that person may be.

"In the furtherance of Dr. Washington's work, the graduates stand
ready to say:

"'I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, O'er the mountain, or plain,
or sea; I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord; I'll be what you
want me to be.'"

In the Survey article, after briefly describing the ups and downs
of Mr. Washington's long fight against a breaking constitution, Mr.
Richardson says:

"With such perpetual rallying power who could cope?

A latent feeling crept among many that he was immune to pain as he had
been to insult and abuse. You know he could steer on over an insult
and never see it.

Some of us shook our heads and said, 'Why he is good for ten years yet.' Seeing
that he thus defied nerves and baffled pain, we hoped. It was in the hour
of hope that the last stroke came, and we felt that pulling at the
throat which we should have felt had he gone by sudden accident.

"How Tuskegee took Dr. Washington's death can probably best be appreciated by an
account of what his life meant among his teachers. Officially he was a stern
and exacting task master. A tireless worker himself, he imposed heavy tasks
upon others.

In the home, however, he had a genius for cheering by little kindnesses and by
a thoughtful word.

Now he
would send around a basket of vegetables from his garden, now a cut
of one of his pigs which he had killed and in which he took great
delight.

"People who sent books and pictures to Tuskegee can hardly realize what a
double pleasure they were shipping: the pleasure they gave him and others
through him. He would have the boxes opened and books and pictures
brought in to his office.

Then from all his heaps of correspondence, from business engagements, from
matters of national importance, he would turn aside and go through
these himself, culling them out.

He would sort a pile here for this family; one there for another, according
to what he considered would suit each. Many a time one could scarcely find a
place to step in his office for the pictures and books. In all things he
received, but to share.

"Then he had a way of kicking organizations to pieces for a few minutes.
If some rural school had a creditable exhibit he would order that
the senior class, 150 strong, should be taken there, whether it was
one mile or ten miles away.

He would order the class out to see how some poor, illiterate farmer had raised a bumper crop
of peas, corn, sugar cane, and peanuts, how he surrounded himself
with conveniences, both inside and outside the home.

Now he would declare a half holiday; now he would allow the students to sleep a half-hour later in
the morning.

That the young man had been visible there just in this position expressed somehow for Strether
that, as Maria Gostrey had reported, he had been absent and silent; and our friend drew breath
on each landing--the lift, at that hour, having ceased to work--before the implications of
the fact.  He had been for a week intensely away, away to a distance and alone; but he was
more back than ever, and the attitude in which Strether had surprised him was something more
than a return--it was clearly a conscious surrender. The real Dr. Washington is buried in the graduates
who sat at his feet and imbibed his spirit, and he lives in them.

"King David, pondering over God's mercies and goodness to him, thinking of how he had been taken from minding
sheep and placed upon the throne of Israel; and how God had guided and
protected him and made his name great in the earth, exclaimed reverently,
one day, 'What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits
unto me?' and he answered his question, in part, by saying: 'I will
pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence of all the people.'

"If
all our graduates could speak to-night, they would have me pay their
vows of gratitude for the opportunity to make blessed and beautiful
their lives, given by our great teacher; and they would have me give
public assurance of their fealty to the work for which Mr. Washington
gave his life.

"And so, Mr. Chairman, in the name of the Alumni Association and in
the spirit of him whose body lies buried just beyond those walls, I
pledge you and the Trustees the loyalty of the Tuskegee graduates
to whatever work they are called in connection with the realization
of Dr. Washington's great purpose.

I pledge you their support in the work which you have come to Tuskegee to perform; because we are
learning self-government and wish to help prove to the world that we can pass the succession to the Principalship
here without revolution. By this time to-morrow night another prophet will have been raised up to serve
in the room of the great founder of this school. I want you, Sir, and
the Board of Trustees to know that when the proclamation is made that
'The King is Dead!' our Alumni Association will be ready to reply: 'Long
Live the King!' and we will faithfully, honestly, and loyally support
the person you elect to succeed our great father, whoever that person
may be.

"In the furtherance of Dr. Washington's work, the graduates stand ready to say:

"'I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, O'er the mountain, or plain,
or sea; I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord; I'll be what
you want me to be.'"

In the Survey article, after briefly describing the ups and downs
of Mr. Washington's long fight against a breaking constitution, Mr.
Richardson says:

"With such perpetual rallying power who could cope?

A latent feeling crept among many that he was immune
to pain as he had been to insult and abuse. You know he could steer on over an
insult and never see it. Some of us shook our heads and said, 'Why
he is good for ten years yet.' Seeing that he thus defied nerves
and baffled pain, we hoped.

It was in the hour of hope that the last stroke came, and we felt that pulling at the throat which we should
have felt had he gone by sudden accident.

"How Tuskegee took Dr. Washington's death can probably best be appreciated by an account of what his
life meant among his teachers. Officially he was a stern and exacting task master. A tireless worker
himself, he imposed heavy tasks upon others. In the home, however, he had a genius for cheering by
little kindnesses and by a thoughtful word. Now he would send around a
basket of vegetables from his garden, now a cut of one of his pigs
which he had killed and in which he took great delight.

"People who sent books and pictures to Tuskegee can hardly realize what a double pleasure
they were shipping: the pleasure they gave him and others through him. He would have the boxes opened
and books and pictures brought in to his office. Then from all his heaps
of correspondence, from business engagements, from matters of national
importance, he would turn aside and go through these himself, culling
them out.

He would sort a pile here for this family; one there for another, according to what he considered
would suit each. Many a time one could scarcely find a place to step
in his office for the pictures and books. In all things he received, but
to share.

"Then he had a way of kicking organizations to pieces for a few minutes.
If some rural school had a creditable exhibit he would order that
the senior class, 150 strong, should be taken there, whether it was
one mile or ten miles away.

He would order the class out to see how some poor, illiterate farmer had raised a bumper crop
of peas, corn, sugar cane, and peanuts, how he surrounded himself with conveniences, both inside
and outside the home. Now he would declare a half holiday; now he would
allow the students to sleep a half-hour later in the morning.
 Seeing him now fairly jaded he had
come, with characteristic good humour, all the way to meet him, and what Strether thereupon
supremely made out was that he would abound for him to the end in conscientious assurances.
This was what was between them while the visitor remained; so far from having to go over old
ground he found his entertainer keen to agree to everything.  It couldn't be put too strongly
for him that he'd be a brute.  "Oh rather!--if I should do anything of THAT sort.  I hope you
believe I really feel it."

"I want it," said Strether, "to be my last word of all to you. I can't say more, you know;
and I don't see how I can do more, in every way, than I've done."

Chad took this, almost artlessly, as a direct allusion.  "You've seen her?"

"Oh yes--to say good-bye.  And if I had doubted the truth of what I tell you--"

"She'd have cleared up your doubt?"  Chad understood--"rather"--again! It even kept him briefly
silent.  But he made that up. "She must have been wonderful."

"She WAS," Strether candidly admitted--all of which practically told as a reference to the
conditions created by the accident of the previous week.

They appeared for a little to be looking back at it; and that came out still more in what Chad
next said.  "I don't know what you've really thought, all along; I never did know--for anything,
with you, seemed to be possible.  But of course--of course--"  Without confusion, quite with
nothing but indulgence, he broke down, he pulled up.  "After all, you understand.  I spoke
to you originally only as I HAD to speak. There's only one way--isn't there?--about such things.
However," he smiled with a final philosophy, "I see it's all right."

Strether met his eyes with a sense of multiplying thoughts.  What was it that made him at present,
late at night and after journeys, so renewedly, so substantially young?  Strether saw in a
moment what it was--it was that he was younger again than Madame de Vionnet. He himself said
immediately none of the things that he was thinking; he said something quite different.  "You
HAVE really been to a distance?"

"I've been to England." Chad spoke cheerfully and promptly, but gave no further account of
it than to say:  "One must sometimes get off."

Strether wanted no more facts--he only wanted to justify, as it were, his question.  "Of course
you do as you're free to do.  But I hope, this time, that you didn't go for ME."

"For very shame at bothering you really too much?  My dear man," Chad laughed, "what WOULDn't
I do for you?"

Strether's easy answer for this was that it was a disposition he had exactly come to profit
by.  "Even at the risk of being in your way I've waited on, you know, for a definite reason."

Chad took it in.  "Oh yes--for us to make if possible a still better impression." And he stood
there happily exhaling his full general consciousness.  "I'm delighted to gather that you feel
we've made it."

There was a pleasant irony in the words, which his guest, preoccupied and keeping to the point,
didn't take up.  "If I had my sense of wanting the rest of the time--the time of their being
still on this side," he continued to explain--"I know now why I wanted it."

He was as grave, as distinct, as a demonstrator before a blackboard, and Chad continued to
face him like an intelligent pupil.  "You wanted to have been put through the whole thing."

Strether again, for a moment, said nothing; he turned his eyes away, and they lost themselves,
through the open window, in the dusky outer air.  "I shall learn from the Bank here where they're
now having their letters, and my last word, which I shall write in the morning and which they're
expecting as my ultimatum, will so immediately reach them." The light of his plural pronoun
was sufficiently reflected in his companion's face as he again met it; and he completed his
demonstration.  He pursued indeed as if for himself.  "Of course I've first to justify what
I shall do." 

CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy
man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the
mountains of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia,
Diocese of Metz.

In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight o'clock in
the morning, he being in his kitchen, with his niece and the servant,
he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on the ground turn
round three or four times, without its being set in motion by any
one.

A moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the next room into the same kitchen, in presence
of the same persons, without their seeing the hand which threw it.

The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass were
broken, and through these panes were thrown some stones, with what
appeared to them supernatural dexterity.

The spirit never hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night time,
but always during the day. The curé employed the prayers marked out in
the ritual to bless his house, and thenceforth the genius broke no more
panes of glass; but he continued to throw stones at the curé's people,
without hurting them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the bucket;
and afterwards he began to serve in the kitchen. One day, as the servant
was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled them up as fast
as she planted them, and laid them in a heap.

It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the German
style; the genius continued to play his tricks.

One day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade
was found thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any trace
being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that
on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two
soles, which the girl had locked up the evening before in a little
box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter,
and putting it either all round the kitchen, or in the porch, or
even in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight.

One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees, and, having put some water in it,
carried it to the ally or walk in the garden; another time he suspended
it to the pot-hook over the fire.

The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's supper, the genius broke two more
into it in his presence, the maid having merely turned to get some salt. The curé having gone
to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware, furniture, linen, bread, milk, and other
things scattered about over the house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one
time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in a moment,
before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place, and told him he was resolved to quit the
parsonage house.

Whilst this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that the genius
had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money in a hole
in the ground.

They went there, and found things exactly as she had said. They picked up the money, which what
the curé had put away in a place not locked up; and in a moment after
they found it anew, with some liards, two by two, scattered about
the kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to
the curé's house, and persuaded him that it was all the effect of
a spell; they told him to take two pistols, and fire them off at the
place where he might observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these
officers two pieces of silver; and from that time he was no longer
perceived in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which
the elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had had
credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled
the curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house,
what had he to fear from any pistol shot which might have been fired
at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?

I have been told several times that a monk of the Cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these signs, and he always arrived.
It is affirmed of another monk of the same order that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him, not
only of what passed in the house, but also of what happened out of it; and one day he was awakened
three times, and warned that some monks were quarreling, and were
ready to come to blows; he ran to the spot, and put an end to the
dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus[284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons
and false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from
them many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not thought
proper to be present, but the decisions of which he desired to know,
being in a boat with St. Sulpicius, but apart from others, as usual
with him, an angel appeared, and informed him what had passed in this
assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held,
and it was found to be at the same hour at which the angel had appeared
to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room
and his clothes.

One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist,
he heard him talking with some one; he entered, and asked who he was
conversing with. The youth affirmed that there was no one in his
room, and, in fact, the superior could neither see nor discover any
one there.

Nevertheless, as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned
that for some years he had been attended by a familiar genius, who
rendered him every service that a domestic could have done, and had
promised him great advantages in the ecclesiastical profession.

The superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said. He
ordered the genius to set a chair for the superior; the genius obeyed.

Information
of this was sent to the archbishop, who did not think proper to give it publicity. The young clerk
was sent away, and this singular adventure was buried in silence.

Bodin[285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living at the time he wrote, which
was in 1588. This person had a familiar who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice
respecting his conduct, sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him practice virtue,
or to assist him; resolving the difficulties which he might find
in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel upon his own affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning
to awaken him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing
that it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad
day, striking gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench.

When he desired to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched his right ear; but if it was anything wrong
and dangerous, he touched his left ear; so that from that time nothing
occurred to him of which he was not warned beforehand. Sometimes
he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in imminent
danger, he saw his genius, under the form of a child of extraordinary
beauty, who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris,[286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had
a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented
him from sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off
the bed-clothes, or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened to him in the open country,
and in the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled at, and his hat thrown down; then he
heard the bursts of laughter and the voice of a person deceased and well known to him, who seemed
to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams,
or otherwise, can hardly be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.

A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise, senior,
a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words, which
he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote down in
French characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén apsychian."

He asked him what that meant. M. de Saumaise told him it meant, "Save
yourself; do you not perceive the death with which you are threatened?"
Upon this hint, the man removed, and left his house, which fell down the
following night.[287]

The same story is related, with a little difference,
by another author, who says that the circumstance happened at Paris;[288]
that the genius spoke in Syriac, and that M. de Saumaise being consulted,
replied, "Go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day,
at nine o'clock in the evening."

It is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to add a few circumstances
by way of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going one
day to Nismes, with one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the latter,
having heard Peiresch talking in his sleep in the night, waked him,
and asked him what he said.

Peiresch answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had
offered me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns,
and as I was going to count him down his money, you waked me, to my
great regret."

They arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized the
goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him if he
had nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal, or
coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns.
Peiresch paid them, and was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished.

Here
is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a little
in the same style.[289] A learned man of Dijon, after having wearied
himself all day with an important passage in a Greek poet, without
being able to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm, introduced him into the palace of Queen
Christina, conducted him into the library, and showed him a small volume, which was precisely what
he sought. He opened it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely
cleared up the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and wrote
down the verses he had seen at Stockholm.

On the morrow, he wrote to M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden,
and begged of him to look in such a place, and in such a division of
the library, if the book, of which he sent him the description, were
there, and if the Greek verses which he sent him were to be read
in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and
also the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one
of his friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would
send it him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of
Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but did not
lead him to do others.

It is asserted[290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army,
commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying like the others, with this
Athenian general, and being arrived at a spot where several roads
met, Socrates would not follow the road taken by the other fugitives;
and when they asked him the reason, he replied, because his genius
drew him away from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other
road were either killed or made prisoners by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful whether the elves, of which so many things are related,
are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church admits nothing
between these two kinds of genii.

Every genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says,[291]
and as there are among the blessed, various degrees of glory, differing from
each other, so we may believe that there are in hell various degrees
of pain and punishment for the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible,
and divert themselves in disquieting the living?

Why do they attach themselves to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to others? Why
do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain time, and
that sometimes a short space?

I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy
and prejudice; but their reality has been so often experienced by
the discourse they have held, and the actions they have performed
in the presence of many wise and enlightened persons, that I cannot
persuade myself that among the great number of stories related of
them there are not at least some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good, to prayer,
or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions.

If they do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments of the damned, on
the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt not those men or animals
which are found on the spot where they may be perceived, it is because God sets
bounds to their malice and power. The demon has a thousand ways of
deceiving us.

All those to whom these genii attach themselves have a horror of them,
mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that these familiar
demons do not lead them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves
from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me,
"I no more doubt the truth of than if I had been a witness of it."

Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers,
was in winter quarters in Flanders. One of his men came to him one
day to beg that he would change his landlord, saying that every night
there came into his bed-room a spirit, which would not allow him to
sleep.

The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity. Some
days after, the same horseman came back and made the same request to
him; the only reply of the captain would have been a volley of blows
with a stick, had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight.

At last, he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to
his captain that he could bear it no longer, and should be obliged
to desert if his lodgings were not changed.

Despilliers, who knew the soldier to
be brave and reasonable, said to him, with an oath, "I will go this night
and sleep with you, and see what is the matter."

At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table,
he lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a
moment turned the bed upside down, covering the captain and the soldier
with the mattress and paillasse.

Despilliers had great trouble to disengage himself and find again his sword and
pistols, and he returned home much confounded.

The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly in the house of his new host.

M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen to it. He was an intrepid man, who had
never known what it was to fall back before danger. He died field-marshal
of the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. and governor of the fortress
of Ségedin.

His son has confirmed this adventure to me within a short time, as having heard it from his father.

The
person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes return;
but I have found myself in a great many places which it was said
they haunted.

I have even tried several times to see them, but I have never seen
any. I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who
all said they saw the spirit; I was the only one in the assembly
who saw nothing."

So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same letter wherein he relates the affair of
M. Despilliers.

Footnotes:

[284] St. Sulpit.

Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. ii. c. 2.

[286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8.

[287] Grot. Epist. Part. ii. Ep. 405.

[288] They affirm that it happened at Dijon, in the family of the
MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory
of the circumstance.

[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p. 55.

[290]
Cicero, de Divinat. lib. i.

[291] John xiv. 2.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH OVER TREASURE.

Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches buried
in the earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that
the demon, whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon,
the Pluto of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian,
of these treasures.

We know also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures
in the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them
in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them
in those gloomy places.

Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom, when he says,[293]
"Would to God I had never been born: I should now sleep with the kings
and great ones of the earth, who built themselves solitary places;
like unto those who seek for treasure, and are rejoiced when they
find a tomb;" doubtless because they hope to find great riches therein.

There

were very precious things in the tomb
of Cyrus.
  He put her question by for the moment; he
told her more about Chad.  "It would have been impossible to meet me more than he did last
night on the question of the infamy of not sticking to her."

"Is that what you called it for him--'infamy'?"

"Oh rather!  I described to him in detail the base creature he'd be, and he quite agrees with
me about it."

"So that it's really as if you had nailed him?"

"Quite really as if--!  I told him I should curse him."

"Oh," she smiled, "you HAVE done it." And then having thought again: "You CAN'T after that
propose--!"  Yet she scanned his face.

"Propose again to Mrs. Newsome?"

She hesitated afresh, but she brought it out.  "I've never believed, you know, that you did
propose.  I always believed it was really she--and, so far as that goes, I can understand it.
What I mean is," she explained, "that with such a spirit--the spirit of curses!--your breach
is past mending.  She has only to know what you've done to him never again to raise a finger."

"I've done," said Strether, "what I could--one can't do more. He protests his devotion and
his horror.  But I'm not sure I've saved him. He protests too much.  He asks how one can dream
of his being tired. But he has all life before him."

Maria saw what he meant.  "He's formed to please."

"And it's our friend who has formed him." Strether felt in it the strange irony.

"So it's scarcely his fault!"

"It's at any rate his danger.  I mean," said Strether, "it's hers. But she knows it."

"Yes, she knows it.  And is your idea," Miss Gostrey asked, "that there was some other woman
in London?"

"Yes.  No.  That is I HAVE no ideas.  I'm afraid of them. I've done with them." And will not this presumption
be transformed into certainty if we recognize in the doctrine universally
rejected by the Church the characteristic features of one of the religions
of the past?

To say that gnosticism or ebionitism are legitimate forms of Christian thought,
one must boldly deny the existence of Christian thought at all, or any
specific character by which it could be recognized.

While ostensibly widening its realm, one undermines it. No one in
the time of Plato would lave ventured to give his name to a doctrine
in which the theory of ideas had no place, and one would deservedly
have excited the ridicule of Greece by trying to pass off Epicurus
or Zeno as a disciple of the Academy.

Let us recognize, then, that if a religion or a doctrine exists which is called Christianity, it
may have its heresies."

The author's whole argument amounts to this: that every opinion which
differs from the code of dogmas we believe in at a given time, is
heresy.

But of course at any given time and place men always believe in something
or other; and this belief in something, indefinite at any place, at
some time, cannot be a criterion of truth.

It all amounts to this: since ubi Christus ibi Ecclesia, then Christus
is where we are.

Every so-called heresy, regarding, as it does, its own creed as the
truth, can just as easily find in Church history a series of illustrations
of its own creed, can use all Pressense's arguments on its own behalf,
and can call its own creed the one truly Christian creed.

So then she had to take it, though still with her defeated protest. A dispatch from the Headquarters
Staff of the Commander in Chief says:

At the beginning of March, (Old Style,) in the principal chain of
the Carpathians, we only held the region of the Dukla Pass, where
our lines formed an exterior angle.

"Then there we are!" said Strether.

