All rights reserved.

PREFACE.

The following selections from observations and experiences during a residence of sixteen years
on the Pacific Coast, while they do not claim to describe fully that portion of the country,
nor to give any account of its great natural wealth and resources, yet indicate something of
its characteristic features and attractions, more especially those of the Puget Sound region.

This remote corner of our territory, hitherto almost unknown to the country at large, is rapidly
coming into prominence, and is now made easy of access by the completion of the Northern Pacific
Railroad. The vast inland sea, popularly known as Puget Sound, ramifying in various directions,
the wide-spreading and majestic forests, the ranges of snow-capped mountains on either side,
the mild and equable climate, and the diversified resources of this favored region, excite
the astonishment and admiration of all beholders. To the lovers of the grand and beautiful,
unmarred as yet by any human interference, who appreciate the freedom from conventionalities
which pertain to longer-settled portions of the globe, it presents an endless field for observation
and enjoyment. [Footnote 176: Major Albrecht fought his guns with great determination; his infantry
escort, according to Boer accounts, retreated when they saw the advance of the British, and his
ammunition was almost exhausted, but his gunners stood their ground.]

[Sidenote:
Pole-Carew is obliged to fall back to Rosmead.]

[Sidenote: Nov. 28th/99.]

[Sidenote: Lord Methuen being wounded command devolves on Colvile.]

Captain Forestier-Walker, who was now in action with the section of
the 18th battery near the farm which had been carried earlier in the
day by the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry, vigorously shelled
the trees and brushwood in front of our men as they advanced, but
his efforts were much hampered by the fact that the undergrowth was
so thick that it was impossible to see exactly how far forward they
were.

All attempts
to establish communication by signal, between the officer commanding
the 9th brigade and the troops on the south side of the river, failed.

The attack broke down from want of strength to drive it home, and
the baffled troops sullenly fell back to Rosmead.

They were
so closely pressed by the enemy's musketry that, in order to cover
the retreat, two officers, Major H. F. Coleridge, North Lancashire,
and Captain T. Irvine, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, each with
ten or eleven men of different battalions, threw themselves into farmhouses,
which they stubbornly defended until, many hours later, after their
detachments had suffered severe loss, they were ordered to evacuate
their posts.

On his
return to the village Major-General Pole-Carew found that the British
strength on the north bank had been increased by the arrival of 300
officers and men of the Royal engineers, and of part of a company of
the 2nd battalion of the Coldstream Guards. After writing to Lord Methuen
to report his failure to force his way up the right bank, and to ask
for co-operation in the fresh attempt for which he was then rallying
his troops, Pole-Carew heard a rumour that Lord Methuen had been wounded,
and that Major-General Colvile was now in command of the division.

The rumour was true. Lord Methuen had been wounded at about 4 p.m. near the centre
of the line, and one of his staff officers, Colonel H. P. Northcott,
had previously fallen mortally wounded, while conveying orders for
the reinforcement of the troops on the north bank.

Not long after this news came in, the officer commanding the two guns of the 18th battery,
still in action near the farm to the south of Rosmead, reported that
he heard through the officer commanding the artillery that Major-General
Colvile had issued orders for a vigorous bombardment of the position by
the artillery till dusk, when the Guards were to attack the left of
the Boer line with the bayonet. Pole-Carew then considered whether,
in view of the projected movement of the Guards' brigade, his local attack
was still feasible.

  

He decided that, owing to the configuration of the ground over which
both bodies of troops would have to move in the darkness, the danger
was so great lest his detachment should enfilade the Guards as to
prohibit an advance from Rosmead.

                                                                     

  All, therefore, that could be done was to secure firmly that village.

[Sidenote:
  62nd battery with four guns arrives after forced march.]
  
While the little column had been striving in vain to force its way up the
right bank of the river, the situation on the left bank had remained unchanged.
The infantry lay prone on the ground, engaged in a desultory fire-fight
with an unseen enemy, while the artillery continued to shell the buildings
and the river-banks near the railway bridge. During the course of the afternoon
Colonel Hall, commanding the artillery, had received a welcome reinforcement
of four guns of the 62nd battery, under Major E. J. Granet.

  The 62nd, which had been left to guard the Orange River bridge, received
orders late on the 26th to leave two guns at that camp, and proceed
with all speed to rejoin Lord Methuen's division. Owing to a deficiency
in rolling stock, no railway transport was available, and it became
necessary for the battery to march the whole way. Starting at 10 a.m.
on the 27th, Major Granet reached Belmont, thirty miles distant,
at dusk.

  
  
  He halted there till 6 a.m. on the 28th, when, escorted by
  twenty-five of the Royal
  
  Munster Fusiliers mounted infantry, he marched to Honey Nest Kloof,
where he decided to water and feed his horses. He had but just halted,
when a message reached him that there was fighting on the Riet river
and that guns and ammunition were urgently required there. He started
immediately, and despite the heavy ground over which he had to pass,
reached the battlefield a little after 2 p.m. In twenty-eight hours
the 62nd battery had covered sixty-two miles, at the expense of six
horses which fell dead in the traces, and of about forty more, which
never recovered from the fatigue of this forced march.

  

  
  
  The battery was first sent to the left to support the advance
  up the north
  
  bank of the river, but before it had opened fire, Colonel Hall ordered
Major Granet more to the eastward, as he was afraid that the shells
might fall among the detachment during its progress through the trees
and brushwood which concealed its movements.

At 2.45
  p.m., the 62nd came into action 1,200 yards from
  the south bank, behind
  
  a swell in the ground
  
which covered the gunners from the waist downwards. Its fire, aimed first
at the north bank, was distributed laterally, and then for depth,
with good results, as the enemy's musketry slackened, and numbers
of men were seen stealing away.

  

  
  About 5 p.m., to support the projected attack by the Guards, the battery
  was moved close to a sandpit on the west of the railway, where it was
  joined by the section of the 18th from
  the left of the line.

[Sidenote: Colvile breaks off the fight.]

  

  
  
  
  After considerable delay, caused by the difficulty of sending messages
  across the shot-swept plain, Major-General Colvile was informed that
  Lord Methuen had been wounded, and that the command of the division had
  devolved upon him. He handed over the Guards' brigade
  to Colonel Paget, Scots Guards, with orders to collect his battalions
  for the attack upon the left of the Boer line, but soon afterwards decided
that it was too late to risk the passage of the river at night with
troops exhausted by hunger, thirst, and the burning heat of an exceptionally
hot day.

  

  He therefore resolved to break off the fight till daybreak
  
  next morning, and directed Colonel Paget to form up his brigade
  for the night at the southern reservoir.

[Sidenote: Pole-Carew holds Rosmead, and concentrates 9th brigade on north
bank.]

[Sidenote: Boers abandon position. Night, Nov. 28-29.]

As soon as Major-General
Pole-Carew reluctantly abandoned the idea of renewing his attack along the
north bank of the Riet, he posted his troops for the defence of
Rosmead. He realised the risks which he ran in holding so isolated
a position throughout the night, but he and his staff considered that the importance
of maintaining the lodgment, which had been effected on the enemy's
side of the Riet, made it worth while to incur the danger.

  

  
  
  To the Royal engineers, under Major G. F. Leverson, was allotted
  the western face of the
  
  village; the Yorkshire Light Infantry held the north, and the Loyal North Lancashire
the north-east; the Argyll and Sutherland guarded the east. The men lined the
walls, banks, and houses at a yard and a half apart, in groups of six, of
whom five rested while one stood sentry.

  
In the centre of the village was the reserve, two companies of the Northumberland
Fusiliers, and a company of the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards. The remainder
of the 9th brigade was ordered to cross the river. To guide them, two
fires were lit at the drift; and by daybreak the whole command was concentrated
on the north bank. It was reinforced by the 1st Highland Light Infantry,
who had arrived during the night by rail from Orange River.

In the grey of the morning, while the Guards were preparing to support
the 9th brigade, the guns[177] re-opened fire upon Modder River village,
but it was soon discovered that during the night the enemy had abandoned
his position, and had disappeared with all his guns and pom-poms.

  With horses utterly tired out, immediate pursuit was impossible, though by midday
  patrols of mounted men had regained touch with such of the Boers as had
  fallen back upon Magersfontein. By the afternoon, the whole
  
  division had crossed the Riet, and was concentrated on its northern
  bank.

[Footnote 177: On the 28th, the field batteries expended ammunition as
follows:--

18th 1,029 rounds 62nd 247 " 75th 1,008 " The Naval guns 260 "]

  

[Sidenote: Casualties of Nov. 28th.]

The British casualties consisted of four officers killed (among whom
was Lieut.-Colonel H. R. Stopford, commanding the 2nd battalion Coldstream
Guards) and 19 wounded; among the other ranks 67 were killed, and
370 wounded.[178] The losses among the Boers are not accurately known,
but 23 burghers were found dead in Rosmead and buried near the village,
while 27 bodies were subsequently found in the river itself.

[Footnote 178: For details as to casualties, see Appendix 6.]

  
  
  CHAPTER XVI.
  
  
  THE RAID ON SOUTHERN NATAL.[179]

[Footnote 179: See map No. 4.]

[Sidenote: The relation of Ladysmith to the defence of Natal.]

Throughout
the operations in Natal during the opening phase of the war, Sir G.
White had held that a mobile force, concentrated north of the Tugela,
afforded better protection to the central and southern portions of
the colony than any number of detachments stationed on the lines of
communication.

  Face to face as he was with an enemy in superior strength, the retention
with his field force of every available unit was essential to the British commander's
plan of striking at his opponents whenever an opportunity offered. Sir
W. Hely-Hutchinson, although anxious as to the security of Maritzburg
and Natal from Boer raids, accepted Sir George's decision, telegraphing
to the General on 26th October: "I shall do my best in consultation
with General Wolfe Murray.... I think we shall be able to deal with
any small raid, but a raid in force, especially if supported by guns,
will be a serious matter.

  
  
  We must take the risk, and hope for the best." On October 30th,
  the date of the battle of Lombards Kop,[180] the only regular unit
  on the Natal line of communication was the 1st Border regiment, which
had arrived at Maritzburg that morning from East London. Detachments of
colonial troops held Colenso bridge and Estcourt. To the eastward
the Umvoti Rifles, a mounted corps rather more than one hundred strong,
had been ordered to fall back from Helpmakaar and watch the ferry,
by which the Dundee-Greytown road crosses the Tugela.

  

  
  
  A battalion of mounted infantry was being raised at Maritzburg
  by Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft, Royal Scots Fusiliers, and another at
  Durban by Lieut.-Colonel Bethune, 16th Lancers.
  
  [Footnote 180: See Chapter X.]

[Sidenote: Threatened siege changes situation.]

  The result of the battle of 30th October made it probable that the field
force at Ladysmith would be soon cut off from its communications. To keep
the road open to the south, Sir George White that evening reinforced the garrison
of Colenso by despatching thither by rail from Ladysmith the 2nd Royal Dublin
Fusiliers, a company of mounted infantry, and the Natal Field battery,
whose obsolete 7-pounder guns had been grievously outranged at Elandslaagte.
On arrival at Colenso, the commanding officer of the Dublin, Colonel
C. D. Cooper, assumed command of that post, finding there one squadron
of the Natal Carbineers, one squadron Imperial Light Horse, a party
of mounted Police, and the Durban Light Infantry (about 380 strong),
and a detachment (fifty strong) of the Natal Naval Volunteers, with
two 9-pounder guns.

  
  
  
  
  The total strength of the command, including the reinforcements from Ladysmith,
  was approximately 1,200 men. The Natal Royal Rifles (150 strong)
  were encamped at Estcourt, twenty-five miles in rear.

[Sidenote: An anxious fortnight, Oct. 31st-Nov. 14th.]

  

  On the following day General White telegraphed to the Governor
  of the colony: "My intention is to hold Ladysmith, make attacks on
the enemy's position whenever possible, and retain the greatest number
of the enemy here."

Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson
  and the officer commanding the Natal line of communication,
  Brigadier-General
  
  J. S. Wolfe Murray, were thus confronted with a difficult and anxious
situation.

It was obvious
  that, having regard to the numerical superiority and greater mobility
of the enemy, the British force at Ladysmith would, in all probability,
be unable to retain the whole of the Boer army. A raid on southern Natal was
therefore to be expected immediately, and the strength of that raid
might well be such as to overwhelm, or, at any rate, to ignore, the
weak garrisons which so imperfectly covered Maritzburg and Durban.

Moreover, General Murray was aware that even if Sir R. Buller should
think fit to divert from Cape Colony any portion of the expeditionary force
now on the high seas, a fortnight must elapse before a single man
could be landed at Durban.

[Sidenote: Provisional steps in case of Boer raid.]

Maritzburg, from
its topographical environment, is even less adapted by nature for
defence than Ladysmith.

  

  
  
  
  Lying in a deep depression surrounded by high hills, the
  positions
  
  
  
  covering the
  
capital of the colony are so extensive that a very large force would
be needed for their effective occupation.

Nevertheless, after consultation on the afternoon of 31st October
with the Governor and the Prime Minister of the colony (Colonel Hime),
the Brigadier-General decided that, although it was impossible to
protect the town itself, it was advisable to prepare the cantonments,
so-called "Fort Napier," for defence, and for that purpose to borrow
Naval guns from the ships at Durban.

  

  
  
  As regards Durban, a telegram was received from Sir
  Alfred Milner stating that arrangements had been made by Sir Redvers
Buller with the admiral for the immediate despatch to that port of
H.M.S. Terrible and Forte as a reinforcement to the Tartar and Philomel,
already in the harbour, and suggesting that in the case of a complete
disaster to Sir G. White's force it would be wise to retire on the
seaport and there make a stand.
  

[Sidenote: Changes of stations, Nov. 2nd and 3rd, in expectation of raid.]

But
the responsible military authorities were by no means inclined to take
a pessimistic view of the situation. The final instructions, dated
1st November, received from Sir G. White's Chief of the Staff, directed
General Murray "to remain and defend Maritzburg to the last," and
on the following day Sir R. Buller telegraphed from Capetown that
a division would be despatched as soon as possible to Natal, adding:
"Do all you can to hold on to Colenso till troops arrive."

  

Meanwhile, a warning had been received from the Intelligence staff at Ladysmith, that a considerable body
of Free Staters was moving on Colenso, and Brigadier-General Murray, realising that the situation of Colonel
Cooper's force at the bridge, commanded by the heights on the northern
bank of the Tugela, was becoming precarious, directed that officer to
fall back on Estcourt, should he consider his position no longer tenable.
On the afternoon of November 2nd, telegraphic communication between Colenso
and Ladysmith was cut off by the enemy, and a large Boer commando, having
occupied the high ground near Grobelaars Kloof (map No. 15), opened fire
on the two little works, Forts Wylie and Molyneux, which had been constructed
by the Natal Volunteers on the left bank of the Tugela to cover the
crossings of that river, and the approaches to Langewacht Spruit. The
Natal Field battery and Natal Naval Volunteers' guns were again seriously
outranged by the Boer artillery, and Colonel Cooper decided that, having
regard to his instructions, he must fall back on Estcourt.

The withdrawal to that town was effected on the night of November 2nd-3rd without molestation
from the enemy, the infantry being conveyed in special trains, the mounted troops and field artillery moving by
road. The 1st battalion Border regiment was simultaneously pushed forward by rail from Maritzburg
to Estcourt, and Brigadier-General Murray proceeded, on 3rd November, to the
latter station to take personal command of the force there concentrated,
which now amounted in all to about 2,300 men. With this force, weak though
it was in guns and mounted troops, he intended to dispute the Boer advance
from the north, falling back, if necessary, on the prepared position
at Maritzburg.

A telegram,
dated 4th November, conveyed General Buller's approval of these dispositions,
but added: "Do not risk losing Durban by over-prolonged defence of Maritzburg,
but hold the latter so long as you safely can.

I fear it will be at least ten days before I can send you substantial
assistance."

[Sidenote: After much delay, on Nov. 13th/99, 4,200 Boers under Joubert
and Botha reach Colenso.]

Fortunately, until the last but one of
these ten days, the enemy held back on the north bank of the Tugela.

A Krijgsraad, at which all the Boer
generals and commandants attended, had assembled in front of Ladysmith
on 1st November to decide whether the main effort of the Boer army should
be concentrated on the attack of that town, or whether, leaving a
detachment to hold Sir G. White's troops, they should at once advance
on Maritzburg and Durban.

Some of the younger leaders, including Louis Botha, as yet
only plain commandant, were in favour of the latter course. The majority
of the council decided that, so long as 12,000 effective British troops
remained at Ladysmith, the commandos were not numerous enough to
allow them to win the much-coveted prizes of the capital and seaport
of Natal.

  

It was believed that General White's troops would be unable to withstand an assault. On the 9th November,
therefore, an abortive and ill-arranged attack was made. It sufficed to show that the Ladysmith garrison was
by no means disposed to yield, and that a formal and perhaps prolonged
investment would be needed to weaken its powers of resistance.

To this task, therefore, the main body of the Boer commandos was assigned; but, as an erroneous report had
come in that 5,000 English troops had concentrated at Frere, it was decided that a strong reconnaissance,
under the personal command of General Joubert, should cross the Tugela
to ascertain the disposition and strength of the British column. On the evening,
therefore, of the 13th November, a force about 4,200 strong was assembled
at Colenso with orders to push to the south.

As agreed, Joubert, although Transvaal Commandant-General, went with it. Louis Botha, promoted to
the rank of "Fighting General," was second in command. There is reason
to believe that the presence of the senior General was due to a desire
to restrain the impetuosity of his subordinate.

  

[Sidenote: Defensive measures taken during the time of grace given by
Boer delay.]

The fifteen days' breathing space which the authorities
in southern Natal had thus been given, after receipt of the disquieting
intelligence of the battle of Lombards Kop, had been of great value.

Captain Percy Scott, H.M.S. Terrible, had reached Durban on November 6th, and was appointed commandant of
that town. A defence scheme was prepared and a battalion of "Imperial Light Infantry" was raised to assist
the Naval contingent,[181] and guns (including two 4.7-in. guns and sixteen
12-pr. 12-cwt.) were landed for its protection. At Maritzburg a position
in the vicinity of Fort Napier had, under the supervision of Col. C. C.
Rawson, C.R.E., been prepared for defence, the work being executed by a
hastily improvised Pioneer Corps of artisans, assisted by native
labour.

  

In selecting this position and planning its defence, it was assumed that if the force at Estcourt fell back
on Maritzburg, 4,000 men in all would be available for its occupation.
Meanwhile, in addition to Thorneycroft's corps, the recruiting and
training of which were proceeding satisfactorily, a provisional garrison
was arranged for Maritzburg by the despatch of two 12-pounders and
a Naval detachment from the fleet at Durban, by the withdrawal of
the detachment of the Naval Volunteers from Estcourt, and by the organisation
into a Town Guard of all able-bodied citizens willing to carry a rifle.

Moreover, some 150 loyal and zealous Natal colonists volunteered for scouting duties,
and were formed into a corps under the command of the Hon. T. K. Murray, C.M.G.,
finding their own horses, saddlery, and rifles, and serving without pay. This
body of patriotic men did useful work to the north of Maritzburg,
in the neighbourhood of Mooi River, from the 4th to the 16th November,
when on the arrival of reinforcements from the Cape they were released
from further duty, and thanked in General Orders for their "excellent
service."

[Footnote 181: This contingent consisted of parties from the Terrible,
Forte, Thetis, Philomel and Tartar, of a total strength of 35 officers
and 423 men. Commander Limpus, R.N., was placed in command of the guns
(see p. 120).]

[Sidenote: Nov. 11th/99. Reinforcements begin to disembark. Sir F.
Clery takes command, Nov. 15th.]

On 11th November General Murray, with the approval of Sir R. Buller, handed over
the command of the Estcourt garrison to Colonel Charles Long, R.H.A., and returned
to Maritzburg to direct personally the heavy work falling on the line of
communication staff in arranging for the disembarkation and equipment of the reinforcements,
whose arrival at Durban was now hourly expected.
 She was named "Roncadora America," from the reef, and the vessel on which she was born.
The captain gave her some little garments he was carrying home to his own unborn baby, and
the gold ties for her sleeves. When her name was pronounced, the ship's gun was fired; then
the captain addressed the father, who held her, and presented him with a purse of fifty dollars
from the passengers, ending in triumph with--

          "And now, my friends, see Roncadora,
          With freedom's banner floating o'er her."

The father then uncovered her; she having made herself quite apparent before by wrestling with
her little fists under the counterpane, and uttering a variety of wild and incomprehensible
sounds. She proved a handsome baby, large and red, with a profusion of soft, dark hair.

  PORT ANGELES, WASHINGTON TERRITORY,
  July 20, 1865.

We reached here day before yesterday, very early in the morning. We were called to the forward
deck; and before us was a dark sea-wall of mountains, with misty ravines and silver peaks,--the
Olympic Range, a fit home for the gods.

A fine blue veil hung over the water, between us and the shore; and, the air being too heavy
for the smoke of the Indian village to rise, it lay in great curved lines, like dim, rainbow-colored
serpents, over sea and land.

I thought it was the loveliest place I had ever seen. The old Spanish explorers must have thought
so too, as they named it "Port of the Angels."

We found that the path to our house was an Indian trail, winding about a mile up the bluff
from the beach; the trees shutting overhead, and all about us a drooping white spirea, a most
bridal-looking flower. Here and there, on some precipitous bank, was the red Indian-flame.
Every once in a while, we came to a little opening looking down upon the sea; and the sound
of it was always in our ears. At last we reached a partially cleared space, and there stood
the house; behind it a mountain range, with snow filling all the ravines, and, below, the fulness
and prime of summer. We are nearly at the foot of the hills, which send us down their snow-winds
night and morning, and their ice-cold water. Between us and them are the fir-trees, two hundred
and fifty and three hundred feet high; and all around, in the burnt land, a wilderness of bloom,--the
purple fireweed, that grows taller than our heads, and in the richest luxuriance, of the same
color as the Alpine rose,--a beautiful foreground for snowy hills.

The house is not ready for us. We are obliged at present, for want of a chimney, to stop with
our nearest neighbor. But we pay it frequent visits. Yesterday, as we sat there, we received
a call from two Indians, in extreme undress. They walked in with perfect freedom, and sat down
on the floor. We shall endeavor to procure from Victoria a dictionary of the Haidah, Chinook,
and other Indian languages, by the aid of which we shall be able to receive such visitors in
a more satisfactory manner. At present, we can only smile very much at them. Fortunately, on
this occasion, our carpenter was present, who told us that the man was called "Hunter," which
served as an introduction. Hunter took from the woman a white bag, in which was a young wild
bird, and put it into my hands. [5] It is referred to in a letter from Ward Chipman to Chief Justice
Blowers to be mentioned later.

See post, p.

[6] This Act was continued in 1784 by (1784) 24 George III, c. 14 (N. S.). Statutes at Large,
Nova Scotia, p. 238.

  

[7] "Halifax currency" was at this time nine-tenths of Sterling £10
currency = £9 sterling and the 5/ dollar being 4/6 sterling.

Sir Guy Carleton claimed that the Negroes who had taken refuge in
the British lines at once lost their status of slavery and became
free.

They were "not Negroes or other property of the American," a rather technical
not to say finely drawn distinction but in favorem libertatis; and in
any event Britain would not betray the helpless who had put their
faith in her.

[9] Washington did make a claim; but the United States had not carried out its part of the contract and Britain
would not and never did pay. Jones' Loyalist History of New York, Vol. 2. p. 256, says that the number
of Negroes who found shelter in the British lines was 2000 at least; probably
this is an underestimate.

Hay's Historical Reading at p. 249 gives the number of Negroes who
came into Nova Scotia with their Masters at least 3000--and of free
Negroes 1522 at Shelburne, 182 at St. John River.

  270 at Guysborough, 211 in Annapolis County, and a smaller number at
other places. 1200 were sent to Sierre Leone in 1792.

[10] See ante, p. --. The Negro population in 1784 estimated at about
3000 was included in the 28,347 of Disbanded Troops and Loyalists
called New Inhabitants, Can.

Arch.,
Report for 1885, p. 10. There were some free Negroes in various
companies of the British forces in one capacity or another.

[11] The Negroes sent were Abraham, James, Lymas, Cyrus, John, Isaac,
Quako, January, Priscella, Rachel, Venus, Daphne, Ann, Dorothy and
four children Celia, William, Venus, Eleanora--reserving Matthew and
Susannah at home.

All these had been christened, February 11, 1784. "Isaac is a thorough
good carpenter and master sawyer, perfectly capable of overseeing and conducting
the rest and strictly honest; Lymas is a rough carpenter and sawyer;
Quako is a field negro has met with an accident in his arm which
will require some indulgence.

  The other men are sawyers and John also a good axeman. Abraham has
been used to cattle and to attend in the house, &c. All the men are expert
in boats.

The women are stout and able and promise well to increase their numbers.
Venus is useful in the hospital, poultry yard, gardens, etc. Upon the whole
they are a most useful lot of Negroes."

John Wentworth, last Royalist Governor of New Hampshire and afterwards
Sir John Wentworth, Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, doubtless
believed himself to be a good man and a good Christian.

The story of Eve and Suke infra is told by Archdeacon Raymond, 3 N. B. Mag.,
1899, p. 221.

[12] He went to England in 1796 (it was said, for a visit) resigned his
position in Nova Scotia, was Knighted and appointed Recorder of Fort
St. George, Bombay, India.

[13] A collateral ancestor of my own, the Reverend Archibald Riddell, had
the advantage of a similar proceeding a century before.

  Being apprehended for taking part in the uprising of the Covenanters
in Scotland he was given (or sold) with others to a Scottish Laird
who chartered a vessel and proceeded to take his human chattels to
America for sale.

The plague broke out on the ship, the Laird and his wife died of it as did some of the crew. When the ship reached
New Jersey, there being no master, the "slaves" escaped up country.
The Laird's son-in-law and personal representative came to America and claimed
Riddell and others. The governor called a jury to determine whether
they were slaves and the jury promptly found in their favor. Riddell
preached in New Jersey until the Revolution of 1688 made it safe for
him to return to Scotland. Juries in such cases are liable to what Blackstone
calls "pious perjury." All this practice was based upon the common
law proceedings when a claim was made of villenage. When a person
claimed to be the lord of a villein who had run away and remained
outside the manor unto which he was regardant, he sued out a writ
of neif, that is, de nativo habendo.

The sheriff took the writ and if the nativus admitted that he was villein to the lord who claimed him, he
was delivered by the sheriff to the lord of the manor; but if he claimed to be free, the sheriff
should not seize him but the Lord was compelled to take out a Pone
to have the matter tried before the Court of Common Pleas or the
Justices in Eyre, that is, the assizes.

Or the alleged villein might himself sue out a writ of libertate probanda:
and until trial of the case the lord could not seize the alleged
villein.

The curious will find the whole subject dealt with in Fitzherbert's
Natura Brevium, pp. 77 sqq.

[14] This is very much like the Chloe Cooley case in Upper Canada.

I do not know what form the prosecution could possibly take if the Negro was in fact a slave.
See Chapter V, note 5 ante.

[15] It is said that August 1797 was the date of the last public
slave sale at Montreal, that of Emmanuel Allen for £36.

  

The last advertisement for sale by auction of a slave in the Maritime Provinces
seems to be that in The Royal Gazette and Nova Scotia Advertiser
of September 7, 1790, where William Millet of Halifax offers for sale
by auction September 9 "A stout likely negro man and sundry other
articles."

In 1802 the census showed that there were 451 Blacks in Halifax; in 1791 there were 422.

Dr. T. Watson Smith says in a paper "Slavery in Canada" republished in
"Canadian History," No. 12, December, 1900, at p. 321.

"About 1806, so Judge Marshall has stated, a master and his slave were
taken before Chief Justice Blowers on a writ of habeas corpus.

When the case and the question of slavery in general had been pretty well
argued on each side, the Chief Justice decided that slavery had no
legal place in Nova Scotia."

I have not been able to trace such a decision and cannot think that
it has been correctly reported. Dr. Smith is wholly justified in his
statement "there is good ground for the opinion that this baneful
system was never actually abolished in the present Canadian Provinces
until the vote of the British Parliament and the signature of King
William IV in 1833 rendered it illegal throughout the British Empire."

[16] J. Allen Jack, Q. C., D. C., L., of St. John, New Brunswick,
gives a full account of this case from which (and similar sources) most
of the facts are taken. In a paper read before the Royal Society of
Canada May 26, 1898, Trans.

R. S. Can., 1898, pp. 137 sqq., Dr. Jack conjectures that Nancy Morton is the Negro female slave
conveyed by bill of sale registered in the office of the Register
of Deeds, St. John's, N. B. Slaves were treated as realty as regards
fieri facias under the Act of 1732 (see ante, p. --) and at least
"savoured of the realty."

The bill of sale registered January 31, 1791, was dated November 13,
1778, and was executed by John Johnson of the Township of Brooklyn
in King's County, Long Island, Province of New York.

It conveyed with a covenant to warrant and defend title to Samuel Duffy, Innkeeper for £40 currency
(say $100) "a certain negro female about fourteen years of age and goes by the name of Nancy," pp. 141,
142. However that may be, Stair Agnew bought Nancy from William
Bailey of the County of York in the Province of New Brunswick for
£40 with full warranty of title as a slave.

[17] He was born in Boston in 1753, the son of John Chipman, a member
of the Bar.

Graduating at Harvard, he joined the Boston Bar and practised in that
City until 1776.

After the Peace he went to England and in 1784 sailed for New Brunswick of which he was appointed Solicitor
General. After a quarter of a century of successful practice he was appointed 1808 a puisne judge of the
Supreme Court.

He died in February, 1826.

His services to Nancy Morton were given without fee or hope of reward.

[18]
That of Mr. Chipman is given in Trans. R. Soc.

Can., 1898, pp. 155-184.

[19] It will be seen that the return sets up that Jones bought and owned the slave and the case was argued on
that hypothesis, but the historians say that Captain Stair Agnew was the owner. The point is not of
importance.

[20] Mos regit legem, Mos pro lege, Leges moribus servient, Consuetudo
est optimus interpres legum, custom is the life of the law, custom
becomes law, &c., &c. That slavery was necessary and therefore legal
in the American Colonies was admitted in the Somerset case.

[21] The modern lawyer, in my opinion, would find no difficulty in
coming to the same conclusion as the Chief Justice.

Mr. Chipman in his interesting correspondence with Chief Justice Blowers (Trans. R. Soc. Can.,
1898, pp. 148 sqq.) admits that if his opponents had hit upon the Nova
Scotia Statute of 1762 as revised in 1783 "the conclusiveness of
their reasoning on their principles would have been considered as
demonstrated."

He adds: "In searching your laws upon this occasion I found this clause but carefully avoided mentioning
it," which raises a curious question in legal ethics.

[22] The reconveyance to Bailey, a quit claim deed, is witnessed by George
Leonard and Thomas Wetmore and is dated February 22, 1800.

The indenture by which Nancy bound herself for fifteen years is dated February
23, 1800.

If Dr. Jack is right in his conjecture the argument took place when
she was 36 and she would receive her freedom when she was 51.

Agnew challenged Judge Allen for some reflection upon him by the Judge; the challenge was declined and Agnew
then challenged Street who accepted--and they fought a bloodless
duel.

Street later in 1821 fought a duel with George Ludlow Wetmore over words which passed on leaving the Court.
Wetmore was struck in the head and died in a few hours. Street was tried and aquitted. One result
of this case was that Mr. Justice Upham freed his slaves.

His wife had six inherited from her father and he himself had some,
one a girl born in the East Indies whom he had bought from her master
in New York, the master of a ship, afterwards married a soldier in
Colonel Allen's regiment.

[23] What is believed to be the last advertisement for the sale of a slave
in any maritime province is in the New Brunswick Royal Gazette of
October 16, 1809 when Daniel Brown offered for sale Nancy a Negro
woman, guaranteeing a good title.

The latest
offer of a reward for the apprehension of a runaway slave is said
to be in the same paper for July 10, 1816.

[24] For this act the perpetrator was excluded by his masonic lodge; being brought to trial before the Supreme
Court in August 1792 he was "honourably acquitted" and afterwards
he was reinstated by his lodge.

[25] Seldom mentioned and never much boasted of in the United States.

[26] The word Camouflage may be new.

The practice
antedated humanity.

[27] There is a record of 371 arriving at St. John from Halifax on May 25, 1815, by the Romulus, who had
taken refuge on board the British Men of War in the Chesapeake.

The Negro settlement at Loch Lomond was founded by them.

At the Census of 1824, 1421 "persons of color" were found in New Brunswick. The Very Rev. Archdeacon
Raymond, an excellent authority, thinks most of these "were at one time slaves or the children
of slaves," but many were not slaves in New Brunswick.

Those that were brought by Admiral Cochrane to Halifax became a great
burden to the community. It was proposed in 1815 by the British Government
to remove them to a warmer climate, but this scheme does not seem
to have been carried out.

By a census taken in 1816 there was found to be 684 in Halifax and elsewhere
in Nova Scotia. In the winter of 1814-15 they had suffered rather
severely from small pox and were vaccinated to prevent its spread.

Some were placed on Melville Island.

[28] Presumably because he had the greatest number of serfs in the world and
was, therefore, the best judge of slaves.

[29] Of course, Britain refused to give up a single fugitive. She could not betray a trust even of
the humblest. She knew that in "the land of the free and the home of the brave"
for the Negro returned to his master, to be brave was to incur torture
and death and death alone could make him free.

[30] The Act (1833) 3, 4 William III, c. 73 (Imp.), passed the House of Commons
August 7 and received the Royal Assent August 28, 1833; and there
were no slaves in all the British world after August, 1838.

CHAPTER VIII

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

The curse of Negro slavery affected the whole English speaking world;
and that part of the world where it was commercially profitable resisted
its abolition. The British part of this world does not need to assert
any higher sense of justice and right than had those who lived in
the Northern States; and it may well be that had Negro slave service
been as profitable in Canada as in the Cotton States, the heinousness
of the sin might not have been more manifest here than there.

Nevertheless we must not too much minimize the real merit of those who sought the destruction of slavery. Slaves
did not pay so well in Canada as in Georgia, but they paid.

It is interesting to note the various ways in which slavery was met
and finally destroyed.

In Upper Canada, the existing slaves, 1793, remained slaves but all those born
thereafter were free, subject to certain conditions of service. There
was a statutory recognition of the existing status and provision
for its destruction in the afterborn. This continued slavery though
it much mitigated its severity and secured its downfall in time. But
there were slaves in Upper Canada when the Imperial Act of 1833 came in
force. The Act of 1793 was admittedly but a compromise measure; and beneficial
as it was it was a paltering with sin.

  In Lower Canada, there was no legislation, and slavery was never formally abolished
until the Imperial Act of 1833; but the courts decided in effect if not in
form that a master had no rights over his slave, and that is tantamount
to saying that where there is no master there is no slave.

The reasoning in these cases as in the Somerset case may not recommend itself to the lawyer but the
effect is undoubtedly, "Slaves cannot live in Lower Canada."

In Nova Scotia, there was no decision that slavery did not exist.
Indeed the course of procedure presupposed that it did exist, but the
courts were astute to find means of making it all but impossible for the
alleged master to succeed; and slavery disappeared accordingly.

In New Brunswick the decision by a divided court was in favor of the
master; but juries were of the same calibre and sentiments in New Brunswick
as in Nova Scotia and the same results were to be anticipated, if
Nova Scotian means were used; and the slave owners gave way.

In the old land, judicial decision destroyed slavery on the British domain;
but conscience and sense of justice and right impelled its destruction elsewhere by statute;
and the same sense of justice and right impelled the Parliament of Great
Britain to recompense the owners for their property thus destroyed.
If there be any more altruistic act of any people in any age of the
world's history I have failed to hear or read of it.

  

In the United States, slavery was abolished as a war measure. Lincoln hating
slavery as he did would never have abolished it, had he not considered
it a useful war measure. No compensation was paid, of course.[1] Everywhere
slavery was doomed and in one way or another it has met a deserved
fate.

WILLIAM RENWICK RIDDELL

JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF ONTARIO, OSGOOD HALL, TORONTO, February
5, 1920

FOOTNOTES:

[1] I had with the late Hon. Warwick Hough of St. Louis, Missouri,
who had been an officer in the Southern Army, several conversations
on the subject of slavery.

He gave it as his firm conviction that, had the South succeeded in the Civil
War, it would shortly have itself abolished slavery and sought readmission
to the Union.

His proposition was that the power and influence of the planter class
was waning, while the manufacturers, merchants and the like were
increasing in number and influence and they would have for their own
protection abolished slavery.

I have not met a Northerner or a Canadian who
agreed with this view; but a few Southerners have expressed to me their
general concurrence with my friend's proposition.

BOOK REVIEWS

Africa and the Discovery of America.

Volume I. By LEO WIENER, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard University.
Innes & Sons, Philadelphia, Pa., 1920. Pp. i-xix, 1-290.

The present volume is the first of a series in which Professor Wiener will show
that Arabicised Negroes, chiefly Mandingoes, brought to America as
slaves, profoundly influenced the culture of the Indians, and were
an important, if not always direct factor in establishing the modus
vivendi between the Indians and the Europeans, which made practicable
the colonization of the New World.

  

The book is packed with valuable data, newly discovered, and brought
together for the first time.

  It should be
  
read slowly, and read through at least twice before judgment is passed on
it. With the first reading comes a shock. One learns that the Journal of the First
Voyage, and the First Letter of Columbus are literary frauds, though
containing material which came from Columbus's own pen, and that tobacco,
manioc, yams, sweet potatoes and peanuts are not gifts of the Indian
to the European.

Yet with a more intimate study of the subject matter, the conviction increases that the author has
built upon the bed-rock of fact, and that his position is unassailable.

It is impossible, within the limits of a review, to do more than to
emphasise the most important of his discoveries. In his studies of the
First Letter, and of the Journals giving account of the first and
the second voyages of Columbus, Professor Wiener seeks to determine
how much testimony they give pertaining to Indian names and things,
after the elimination of all that is not Indian.

The non-Indian elements are of two sorts; the names of the Islands,
and the words for "gold," etc. Columbus, dominated by the fixed
idea, that, sailing westward, he would find a short cut to India,
China and Japan, began with the first sight of land, to be engrossed
with the task of identifying each newly discovered country with some
island or district of the Far East, named on his maps.

He was an ignorant man, though he knew Ptolemy and Marco Polo by heart, credulous, uncritical, not
consciously dishonest, but unready to correct false impressions caused by his ignorance and
gullibility. His notes, as may be seen from a reproduction of a page of his manuscripts
(facing p. 38), were in an execrable hand. The forger of the Journal of
the First Voyage was no puzzle expert, and made mistakes in deciphering
scrawls.

Thus, for example, the note Giaua min., i.e., Java minor, was read Guanahin, the same destined to
masquerade as Guanahani, the Indian name of the first island sighted
on October 12, 1492.

Perhaps the best specimen of such ghost-words in the Journal is the name
Carib. This is nothing but Marco Polo's Cambalu, the capital of the
Grand Khan, successively misread as Canibal, Caniba, Cariba. So also,
"canoe" is a ghost-word, traced to a misreading of scaphas as canoas
in the manuscript, or the Gothic text of the Latin version of the
First Letter. It is interesting to learn that maize, in the forms
masa, maza, ultimately from Portuguese mararoca, is the African name
for Guinea corn. The transference of the name from Guinea corn to
Indian corn, "rests on a misunderstanding of a passage in Peter Martyr's
First Decade" (p. 123).

The question arises whether or not there
had been a colony of Europeans, with African slaves in America, before
the arrival of Columbus.

Fray Ramon Pane, Oviedo, and Las Casas give
conico as the Indian word for "farm, plantation." This is clearly
the Mandingo kunke "farm." The Indian word for "golo," according to
the Journal entry for January 13, 1493, is caona. It is found also
in the name of Cacique Caonabo, called in the Journal of the Second
Voyage "master of mines,"--the name being explained in the Libretto
as "lord of the house of gold." Now the words for "gold" in the Negro
languages are mostly derived from Arabic din[=a]r, which, through
Hausa zinaria, and Pul kanyera, reaches Vei as kani. Evidently canoa,
written also guani, is nothing but this Vei word. In "Cacique Caonabo,"
we have three Mande words in juxtaposition. Cacique is not far removed
from kuntigi, Soso kundzi, "chief,"--caona, that is kani, is "gold,"
and boi, from Arabic beii, bai, is "house." It drove the women into our houses, with their little bundles of "fire-sticks"
(pitch-wood) to sell. I offered one of them a pair of shoes; but she pointed to the snow, and
said it was "hot," and that it would make her feet too cold to wear shoes.

We were told, before we came here, that this climate was like that of Asia; and now an Asian
flower has come to confirm it. The marshes are all gay with it: it is the golden club. The
botany calls it the Orontium, because it grows on the banks of the Orontes; and it is very
Asian-looking. It has a great wrapper, like the rich yellow silk in which the Japanese brought
their presents to President Lincoln. It is a relation to the calla-lily, but is larger.

The very last day of winter, as if they could not possibly wait a day longer, great flocks
of meadow-larks came, and settled down on the field next to us. They are about as large as
robins, and have a braided work of black-and-gold to trim off their wings, and a broad black
collar on their orange breasts. They appear to have a very agreeable consciousness of being
in the finest possible condition. The dear old robins look rather faded beside them. With them
came the crimson-headed linnets. In trying to identify these little birds from our books, I
found that great confusion had prevailed in regard to them, because their nuptial plumage differs
so much from their ordinary dress. These darlings blushed all over with life and joy, which
told me their secret.

  APRIL 30, 1866.

In the winter we were told, that, when the spring came fully on, the Indians would have the
"Red Tamáhnous," which means "love." A little, gray old woman appeared yesterday morning at
our door, with her cheeks all aglow, as if her young blood had returned. Besides the vermilion
lavishly displayed on her face, the crease at the parting of her hair was painted the same
color. Every article of clothing she had on was bright and new. I looked out, and saw that
no Indian had on any thing but red. Even old blind Charley, whom we had never seen in any thing
but a black blanket, appeared in a new one of scarlet. But I was most touched by the change
in this woman, because she is, I suppose, the oldest creature that I ever looked at. Nothing
but a primeval rock ever seemed to me so old; and when we had seen her before, she was like
a mummy generally in her clothing. These most ancient creatures have their little stiff legs
covered with a kind of blue cloth, sewed close round them, just like the mummy-wrappings I
have seen at Barnum's Museum. She has more vivacity and animation than any one else I ever
saw. If anybody has a right to bright cheeks, she has. I like the Indians' painting themselves,
for in them it is quite a different thing from what it is in fashionable ladies. They do it
to show how they feel, not commonly expressing their emotions in words.

This woman, who is a Pend d'Oreille, has the most extraordinary power of modulation in her
voice. The Indians, by prolonging the sound of words, add to their force, and vary their meaning;
so that the same word signifies more or less, according as it is spoken quickly or slowly.
She has such a searching voice, especially when she is attempting to convict me of any subterfuge
or evasion, that I have to yield to her at once. The Indians have no word, as far as I can
learn, for "busy." So, when I cannot entertain her, I have to make the nearest approach I can
to the truth, and tell her I am sick, or something of that kind; but nothing avails, with her,
short of the absolute truth. She is so very fantastic and entertaining, that I should cultivate
her acquaintance more, if it were not for this deficiency in the language, which makes it impossible
to convey the idea to her when I want to get rid of her. As old as she is, she still carries
home the great sacks of flour--a hundred pounds--on her back, superintends the salmon-fishery
for the family, takes care of the tenas men (children), and looks after affairs in general.

  MAY 10, 1866.

We walked out to Lake Union, and found an Indian and his wife living in a tree. This appears to be an increase
of 35 per centum in ten years.

The subject of domestic cultivation of sugar bearing plants is, therefore,
one of great importance to this nation, and it has accordingly engaged the
attention of the U.S. Commissioner of Agriculture, and many experiments
have been made in different parts of the country in the propagation
of the various canes, roots, etc., from which sugar can be made.

Among sugar-bearing plants, beside the regular sugar cane, are, sorghum, sugar beet, maple,
watermelon, sweet and white potato, and corn stalk.

Statistics show that of the 12,000,000,000 pounds of sugar produced
in the world, about three-fourths comes from the sugar cane, and
the other fourth comes mainly from the sugar beet.

Of the total quantity, only about one seventieth is produced in the
United States, and that is mainly cane sugar from Louisiana.

The beet sugar has formerly been mainly produced in Europe. First France, second Germany, third Russia,
then Belgium, Austria, Holland, Sweden, and Italy.

The consumption of sugar in Great Britain is much greater per capita
than in the United States, about 65 pounds, or nearly double; while
in Germany 19 pounds per annum are used on an average by each person,
and in Russia the consumption is much less.

The importance of this subject to the United States, where the consumption
of sugar is increasing out of ratio to the production of sugar-bearing
plants, and where agricultural independence should be realized, as
we have already attained and maintained political independence, and
almost independence in manufacturing industries, has called out Mr. Lewis
S. Ware, a member of the American Chemical Society, etc., in a pamphlet
of over 60 pages, entitled a "Study of the Various Sources of Sugar."

  
  

From this publication it appears that the main source of sugar supply
must still be sucrose, cane sugar, even in spite of the best efforts
of the general government and of the State agricultural organizations
to introduce sugar-bearing plants that will thrive in the temperate
and colder latitudes of this country.

With the single exception of the sugar beet, he seems to disparage all attempts to produce practical
sugar from hardy plants, or those that will mature in the region of frosts in winter. Even sorghum,
that has for twenty years held a place in the hopes of the northern farmer, has declined so that
the alleged production of half a million pounds in 1866 had became barely a twelfth of a
million pounds in 1877.

In his remarks on the synopsis of one hundred and eleven experiments,
made at Washington, he says: "As may be noticed, thirty-five of them
(111) would yield zero.

If we take the average of the hundred and eleven experiments, we
find as a yield 4.5 per cent., which result cannot possibly be practically
accepted.

In other words, our government, notwithstanding the favorable conditions
under which they were made, prove that the sorghum utilization is fallacy
in every sense of the word." ... "If sorghum is to be grown for its
sirup, or for fodder, it will evidently render excellent service."
It seems that less than four per cent. of crystallizable sugar in
the sorghum juice will not pay the cost of making sugar from it, as it
will not crystallize in a reasonable time, on account of the glucose
in the juice, which, with the other impurities, will prevent the ready
crystallization of four or five times their own weight of sucrose.

From the early history of sorghum, it appears that it was known as
sorgo in the sixteenth century, while twenty or thirty varieties
were known under different names in Egypt, Arabia, and Africa. All at once I felt a heavy thump
on my back, and a wave broke over my head,--a pretty rough greeting from the sea. It seems
that we slightly grounded, but were off in an instant.

I had long looked forward to the wonderful experience of seeing this immense river, seven miles
broad, rolling seaward, and the great line of breakers at the bar; but no one can realize,
without actually seeing it, how much its grandeur is enhanced by the surroundings of interminable
forest, and the magnificence of its snow-mountains. This Society also did a considerable work
for the freedmen--and the white refugees, in connection with the Western Sanitary Commission.
On the formation of the Freedmen's Relief Society, this part of their work
was transferred to them. For a long time I could not receive any other sensation, nor admit any other thought,
but of its terrific strength. The Indians say that in former times the river flowed smoothly
where are now the whirling rapids of the Cascades, but that a landslide from the banks dammed
up the stream, and produced this great change. The planters seem to have made stiff "mortar," which
premises the use of lime and indicates a supply.

Among the fishing and fowling implements of the MAY FLOWER colonists
are recorded, nets, "seynes," twine, fish hooks, muskets (for large
game), "fowling pieces," powder, "goose-shot," "hail-shot," etc.

Such
early mention is found of the nets, "seynes," etc., of their fishing
equipment, as to leave no room for doubt that store of them was brought in
the ship.

They seem to have been unfortunate in the size of their fish-hooks, which are spoken of as "too large" even
for cod. They must, as Goodwin remarks, "have been very large." Window also says, "We wanted fit
and strong seines and other netting."

They seem to have relied upon their muskets to some extent for wild
fowl (as witness Winslow's long and successful shot at a duck, on
his visit to Massasoit), as they undoubtedly did for deer, etc. They
were apparently fairly well supplied with them, of either the "matchlock"
or "snaphance"

(flintlock) pattern, though the planters complained to the Merchant Adventurers (in their letter of
August 3, from Southampton), that they were "wanting many muskets," etc. That they had some
"fowling-pieces" is shown by the fact that young Billington seems (according to Bradford) to have
"shot one off in his father's cabin" aboard ship in Cape Cod harbor, and there are several other
coeval mentions of them.

The arms and accoutrements (besides ordnance) of the MAY-FLOWER Pilgrims, known on the authority of Bradford and
Winslow to have been brought by them, included muskets ("matchlocks"),
"snaphances"

(flintlocks), armor ("corslets," "cuirasses," "helmets," "bandoliers," etc.), swords,
"curtlaxes" (cutlasses), "daggers," powder, "mould-shot," "match" (slow-
match for guns), "flints," belts, "knapsacks," "drum," "trumpet," "manacles,"
"leg-irons," etc., etc. "Pistols" (brass) appear in early inventories,
but their absence in the early hand-to-hand encounter at Wessagussett
indicates that none were then available, or that they were not trusted.


Vancouver also, when exploring the Pacific coast in 1792, passed by this great stream, without
suspecting that there was a river of any importance there. He noticed the line of breakers,
and concluded, that, if there was any river, it must be unnavigable, from shoals and reefs.
He had made up his mind, that all the streams flowing into the Pacific between the fortieth
and forty-eighth parallels of latitude were mere brooks, insufficient for vessels to navigate,
and not worthy his attention.

Capt. Grey, who reached the place shortly after, with keener observation and deeper in-sight,
saw the indications of a great river there, and after lying outside for nine days, waiting
a favorable opportunity to enter, succeeded in doing so on the 11th of May, 1792, being the
first to accomplish that feat, and explored the lower portion of it. He gave to the river and
to the southern point the names they now bear.

Vancouver failed in the same way to discover the Fraser, the great river of British Columbia,
although he actually entered the delta of the river, and sailed about among the sand-banks,
naming one of them Sturgeon Bank; while the Spanish explorers, who were there about the same
time, recognized the fact of its existence far out at sea, in the irregular currents, the sand-banks,
the drift of trees and logs, and also in the depression in the Cascade Mountains, which marks
its channel. 

I cannot conceive a situation so harrowing as that of those poor children hearing their father declare himself
an impostor! a beggar! a peculator!

He cried, poor unhappy man, real tears! The truth was that his nerves
suddenly gave way.

For, just before--only just before, he was smiling and talking largely.

He wished to go on his knees to every one of them, and kept telling them of his love--the servants all awake and
listening! and more gossiping servants than the Poles always, by the most extraordinary inadvertence, managed
to get, you never heard of!

Nothing would stop him from humiliating himself! No one paid any attention to
Mrs. Chump until she started from her chair.

They say that some of the servants who were crying outside, positively
were compelled to laugh when they heard her first outbursts. And poor
Mr. Pole confessed that he had touched her money. He could not tell
her how much. Fancy such a scene, with a dead man in the house!

Imagination almost refuses to conjure it up! Not to dwell on it too long--for, I have never endured
such a shock as it has given me--Mrs. Chump left the house, and the next thing received from her was
a lawyer's letter. Business men say she is not to blame: women may cherish their own opinion. But, oh,
Miss Belloni! is it not terrible? You are pale."

Emilia behind what she felt for her friends, had a dim comprehension
of the meaning of their old disgust at Laura, during this narration.

But, hearing the word of pity, she did not stop to be critical.

              "Can you do nothing for them?" she said abruptly.

The thought in Laura's shocked grey eyes was, "They have done little
enough for you," i.e., toward making you a lady.

"Oh!" she cried; "I can you teach me what to do? I must be extremely delicate, and calculate
upon what they would accept from me.

For--so I hear--they used to--and may still--nourish a--what I called--silly--though
not in unkindness-- hostility to our family--me. And perhaps now
natural delicacy may render it difficult for them to..."

In short,
to accept an alms from Laura Tinley; so said her pleading look for
an interpretation.

"You know Mr. Pericles," said Emilia, "he can do the mischief--can
he not?

Stop him."

Laura laughed. "One might almost say that you do not know him, Miss Belloni.
What is my influence? I have neither a voice, nor can I play on any instrument.
I would--indeed I will--do my best my utmost; only, how even to introduce
the subject to him? Are not you the person? He speaks of you constantly. He has
consulted doctors with regard to your voice, and the only excuse, dear
Miss Belloni, for my visit to you to- day, is my desire that any misunderstanding
between you may be cleared. Because, I have just heard--Miss Belloni will forgive
me!--the origin of it; and tidings coming that you were in the neighbourhood,
I thought-- hoped that I might be the means of re-uniting two evidently
destined to be of essential service to one another.

And really, life means that, does it not?"

Emilia was becoming more critical of this tone the more she listened. She declared,
her immediate willingness to meet Mr. Pericles. With which, and Emilia's
assurance that she would write, and herself make the appointment,
Laura retired, in high glee at the prospect of winning the gratitude
of the inscrutable millionaire.

It was true that the absence of
any rivalry for the possession of the man took much of his sweetness
from him. She seemed to be plucking him from the hands of the dead, and
half recognized that victory over uncontesting rivals claps the laurel-
wreath rather rudely upon our heads.

Emilia lost no time in running straight to Georgiana, who was busy at her writing-desk. She related
what she had just heard, ending breathlessly: "Georgey! my dear! will
you help them?"

"In what possible way can I do so?" said Georgiana. To-morrow night
we shall have left England."

"But to-day we are here." Emilia pressed a hand to her bosom: "my heart feels
hollow, and my friends cry out in it.

I cannot let him suffer." She looked into Georgiana's eyes. "Will
you not help them?--they want money."

The lady reddened.

"Is
it not preposterous to suppose that I can offer them assistance of such
a kind?"

"Not you," returned Emilia, sighing; and in an under-breath, "me--will
you lend it to me?

Merthyr would. I shall repay it. I cannot tell what fills me with
this delight, but I know I am able to repay any sum.

Two thousand pounds would help them. I think--I think my voice has come back."

"Have you tried it?" said Georgiana, to produce a diversion from the other topic.

"No; but believe me when I tell you, it must be.

I scarcely feel the floor; no misery touches me. I am only sorry for my friends, not down on the ground
with them. Believe me! And I have been studying all this while. I have not lost an hour. I would accept a part,
and step on the boards within a week, and be certain to succeed.

I am just as willing to go to the Conservatorio and submit to discipline. Only, dear friend, believe
me, that I ask for money now, because I am sure I can repay it. I want to send it immediately, and then,
good-bye to England."

Georgiana closed her desk. She had been suspicious at first of another
sentiment in the background, but was now quite convinced of the simplicity
of Emilia's design.

She said: "I will tell you exactly how I am placed. I do not know, that under any circumstances,
I could have given into your hands so large a sum as this that you ask for. My brother has a fortune;
and I have also a little property.

When I say my brother has a fortune, he has the remains of one. All that has
gone has been devoted to relieve your countrymen, and further the interests
he has nearest at heart. What is left to him, I believe, he has now
thrown into the gulf.

You have heard Lady Charlotte call him a fanatic."

Emilia's lip quivered.

"You must not blame her for that," Georgiana continued. "Lady Gosstre thinks
much the same. The world thinks with them. I love him, and prove my
love by trusting him, and wish to prove my love by aiding him, and
being always at hand to succour, as I should be now, but that I obeyed his
dearest wish in resting here to watch over you.

I am his other self. I have taught him to feel that; so that in his devotion to this cause he
may follow every impulse he has, and still there is his sister to fall back on. My child! see what I have
been doing. I have been calculating here." Georgiana took a scroll from her desk, and laid it under Emilia's
eyes. "I have reckoned our expenses as far as Turin, and have only
consented to take Lady Gosstre's valet for courier, just to please
her.

I know that he will make the cost double, and I feel like a miser about
money. If Merthyr is ruined, he will require every farthing that
I have for our common subsistence.

Now do you understand? I can hardly put the case more plainly. It is out of
my power to do what you ask me to do."

Emilia sighed lightly, and seemed not much cast down by the refusal. She perceived that it was necessarily
positive, and like all minds framed to resolve to action, there was an instantaneous change
of the current of her thoughts in another direction.

"Then, my darling, my one prayer!" she said.

"Postpone our going for a week. I will try to get help for them elsewhere."

Georgiana
was pleased by Emilia's manner of taking the rebuff; but it required
an altercation before she consented to this postponement; she nodded
her head finally in anger.

CHAPTER LVII

By the park-gates that evening, Wilfrid received a letter from the
hands of Tracy Runningbrook.

It said: "I am not able to see you now. When I tell you that I will
see you before I leave England, I insist upon your believing me.

I have no head for seeing anybody now. Emilia"--was the simple signature, perused over and over
again by this maddened lover, under the flitting gate-lamp, after Tracy had left him. The coldness of
Emilia's name so briefly given, concentrated every fire in his heart. What was it but miserable cowardice,
he thought, that prevented him from getting the peace poor Barrett had found?
Intolerable anguish weakened his limbs. He flung himself on a wayside
bank, grovelling, to rise again calm and quite ready for society,
upon the proper application of the clothes-brush.

Indeed; he patted his shoulder and elbow to remove the soil of his short
contact with earth, and tried a cigar: but the first taste of the smoke sickened
his lips. Then he stood for a moment as a man in a new world.

This strange sensation of disgust with familiar comforting habits, fixed him in perplexity, till
a rushing of wild thoughts and hopes from brain to heart, heart to brain, gave him insight, and he
perceived his state, and that for all he held to in our life he was dependent
upon another; which is virtually the curse of love.

"And he passed along the road," adds the Philosopher, "a weaker man, a stronger lover. Not that love should
diminish manliness or gains by so doing; but travelling to love by the ways of Sentiment, attaining to
the passion bit by bit, does full surely take from us the strength
of our nature, as if (which is probable) at every step we paid fee to
move forward. Wilfrid had just enough of the coin to pay his footing.
He was verily fining himself down.

You are tempted to ask what the value of him will be by the time that he turns out pure metal? I reply,
something considerable, if by great sacrifice he gets to truth--gets to that oneness of feeling which is the
truthful impulse. At last, he will stand high above them that have not suffered. The rejection of
his cigar."

This wages too absurd.

At the risk of breaking our partnership for ever, I intervene. My Philosopher's meaning is plain, and, as usual,
good; but not even I, who have less reason to laugh at him than anybody,
can gravely accept the juxtaposition of suffering and cigars.

And, moreover, there is a little piece of action in store.

Wilfrid had walked half way to Brookfield, when the longing to look
upon the Richford chamber-windows stirred so hotly within him that
he returned to the gates.

He saw Captain Gambier issuing on horseback from under the lamp.

The captain remarked that it was a fine night, and prepared to ride off, but
Wilfrid requested him to dismount, and his voice had the unmistakeable
ring in it by which a man knows that there must be no trifling.

The captain leaned forward to look at him before he obeyed
the summons, All self-control had abandoned Wilfrid in the rage he felt at
Gambier's having seen Emilia, and the jealous suspicion that she had
failed to keep her appointment for the like reason.

"Why do you come here?" he said, hoarsely.

"By Jove! that's an odd question," said the captain, at once taking his ground.

"Am I to understand that you've been playing with my sister, as you do
with every other woman?"

Captain Gambier murmured quietly, "Every other woman?" and smoothed his horse's
neck. "They're not so easily played with, my dear fellow. You speak
like a youngster."

"I am the only protector of my sister's reputation," said Wilfrid,
"and, by heaven! if you have cast her over to be the common talk,
you shall meet me."

The captain turned to his horse, saying, "Oh! Well!"

Being mounted, he observed: "My dear Pole, you might have sung out all
you had to say.

Go to your sister, and if she complains of my behaviour, I'll meet you.
Oh, yes!

I'll meet you; I have no objection to excitement. You're in the hands
of an infernally clever woman, who does me the honour to wish to
see my blood on the carpet, I believe; but if this is her scheme,
it's not worthy of her ability.

She began pretty well. She arranged the preliminaries capitally. Why, look here," he relinquished his ordinary drawl;
"I'll tell you something, which you may put down in my favour or
not--just as you like.

That woman did her best to compromise your sister with me on board
the yacht. I can't tell you how, and won't. Of course, I wouldn't if
I could; but I have sense enough to admire a very charming person,
and I did the only honourable thing in my power.

It's your sister, my good fellow, who gave me my dismissal. We had a little common sense conversation--in which
she shines. I envy the man that marries her, but she denies me such luck. There! if you want to shoot me for
my share in that transaction, I'll give you your chance: and if you do, my
dear Pole, either you must be a tremendous fool, or that woman's ten times
cleverer than I thought. You know where to find me. Good night."

The captain gave heel to his horse, hearing no more.

Adela confirmed to Wilfrid what Gambier had spoken; and that it was she who had given him his dismissal.
She called him by his name, "Augustus," in a kindly tone, remarking, that Lady Charlotte
had persecuted him dreadfully. "Poor Augustus! his entire reputation for
evil is owing to her black paint-brush. There is no man so easily 'hooked,'
as Mrs. Bayruffle would say, as he, though he has but eight hundred a year:
barely enough to live on. It would have been cruel of me to keep
him, for if he is in love, it's with Emilia."

Wilfrid here took upon himself to reproach her for a certain negligence
of worldly interests. She laughed and blushed with humorous satisfaction;
and, on second thoughts, he changed his opinion, telling her that he wished
he could win his freedom as she had done.

"Wilfrid," she said suddenly, "will you persuade Cornelia not to wear
black?"

"Yes, if you wish it," he replied.

"You will, positively? Then listen, dear. I don't like the prospect
of your alliance with Lady Charlotte."

Wilfrid could not repress a despondent shrug.

"But you can get released," she cried; and ultimately counselled him:
"Mention the name of Lord Eltham before her once, when you are alone.

Watch the result. Only, don't be clumsy. But I need not tell you that."

For
hours he cudgelled his brains to know why she desired Cornelia not
to wear black, and when the light broke in on him he laughed like
a jolly youth for an instant.

The reason why was in a web so complicated, that, to have divined
what hung on Cornelia's wearing of black, showed a rare sagacity
and perception of character on the little lady's part.

As thus:--Sir Twickenham Pryme is the most sensitive of men to ridicule
and vulgar tattle: he has continued to visit the house, learning
by degrees to prefer me, but still too chivalrous to withdraw his
claim to Cornelia, notwithstanding that he has seen indications of
her not too absolute devotion towards him:--I have let him become
aware that I have broken with Captain Gambier (whose income is eight
hundred a year merely), for the sake of a higher attachment: now,
since the catastrophe, he can with ease make it appear to the world
that I was his choice from the first, seeing that Cornelia will assuredly
make no manner of objection:--but, if she, with foolish sentimental
persistence, assumes the garb of sorrow, then Sir Twickenham's ears
will tingle; he will retire altogether; he will not dare to place
himself in a position which will lend a colour to the gossip, that
jilted by one sister, he flew for consolation to the other; jilted,
too, for the mere memory of a dead man! an additional insult!

Exquisite intricacy! Wilfrid worked through all the intervolutions,
and nearly forgot his wretchedness in admiration of his sister's
mental endowments.

  

He was the more willing to magnify them, inasmuch as he thereby strengthened
his hope that liberty would follow the speaking of the talismanic
name of Eltham to Lady Charlotte, alone.

He had come to look upon her as the real barrier between himself and
Emilia.

"I think we have brains," he said softly, on his pillow, upon a review
of the beggared aspect of his family; and he went to sleep with a smile
on his face.

CHAPTER LVIII

A sharp breath of air had passed along the dews, and all the young green of the fresh season shone
in white jewels.

The sky, set with very dim distant stars, was in grey light round a
small brilliant moon. Every space of earth lifted clear to her; the woodland
listened; and in the bright silence the nightingales sang loud.

Emilia and Tracy Runningbrook were threading their way toward a lane over
which great oak branches intervolved; thence under larches all with
glittering sleeves, and among spiky brambles, with the purple leaf
and the crimson frosted.

The frost on the edges of the brown-leaved bracken gave a faint colour. Here and there, intense silver
dazzled their eyes. As they advanced amid the icy hush, so hard and instant was the ring of the earth
under them, their steps sounded as if expected.

"This night seems made for me!" said Emilia.

Tracy had no knowledge of the object of the expedition. He was her squire
simply; had pitched on a sudden into an enamoured condition, and
walked beside her, caring little whither he was led, so that she left him not.

They
came upon a clearing in the wood where a tournament of knights might have
been held. Ranged on two sides were rows of larches, and forward, fit to
plume a dais, a clump of tall firs stood with a flowing silver fir
to right and left, and the white stems of the birch-tree shining from
among them.

This fair woodland court had three broad oaks, as for gateways; and the moon was above it. Moss and the
frosted brown fern were its flooring.

Emilia said eagerly, "This way," and ran under one of the oaks. She turned to Tracy following: "There
is no doubt of it." Her hand was lying softly on her throat.

"Your voice?" Tracy divined her.

She nodded, but frowned lovingly at the shout he raised, and he understood
that there was haply some plot to be worked out. The open space was
quite luminous in the middle of those three deep walls of shadow.

Emilia enjoined him to rest where he was, and wait for her on that spot like a faithful sentinel,
whatsoever ensued. Coaxing his promise, she entered the square of white light alone. Presently she stood upon
a low mound, so that her whole figure was distinct, while the moon made her features visible.

Expectancy sharpened the stillness to Tracy's ears. A nightingale began the charm. He was answered by
another. Many were soon in song, till even the pauses were sweet with them. Tracy had the thought
that they were calling for Emilia to commence; that it was nature preluding the divine human voice, weaving
her spell for it. He was seized by a thirst to hear the adorable girl, who stood there patiently, with her
face lifted soft in moonlight. And then the blood thrilled along his veins,
as if one more than mortal had touched him. It seemed to him long
before he knew that Emilia's voice was in the air.

In such a place,
at such a time, there is no wizardry like a woman's voice. Emilia
had gained in force and fulness. She sang with a stately fervour,
letting the notes flow from her breast, while both her arms hung loose,
and not a gesture escaped her. Tracy's fiery imagination set him throbbing,
as to the voice of the verified spirit of the place. He heard nothing
but Emilia, and scarce felt that it was she, or that tears were on
his eyelids, till her voice sank richly, deep into the bosom of the
woods. Then the stillness, like one folding up a precious jewel, seemed
to pant audibly.

"She's not alone!" This was human speech at his
elbow, uttered in some stupefied amazement. In an extremity of wrath,
Tracy turned about to curse the intruder, and discerned Wilfrid, eagerly
bent forward on the other side of the oak by which he leaned. Advancing
toward Emilia, two figures were seen. Mr. Pericles in his bearskin
was easily to be distinguished. His companion was Laura Tinley. The
Greek moved at rapid strides, and coming near upon Emilia, raised
his hands as in exclamation. At once he disencumbered his shoulders
of the enormous wrapper, held it aloft imperiously, and by main force
extinguished Emilia. Laura's shrill laugh resounded.

"Oh! beastly
bathos!" Tracy groaned in his heart. "Here we are down in Avernus
in a twinkling!"

There was evidently quick talk going on among the
three, after which Emilia, heavily weighted, walked a little apart
with Mr. Pericles, who looked lean and lank beside her, and gesticulated
in his wildest manner. Tracy glanced about for Wilfrid. The latter
was not visible, but, stepping up the bank of sand and moss, appeared
a lady in shawl and hat, in whom he recognized Lady Charlotte. He stopped a second, then flung back
his cap and pole, and threw himself under the boiling water. Up came the rope to the surface,
but the man was gone. Instantly after, he scrambled up the bank; and the great magnificent
man did nothing but clutch him on the back when he was safely out.

We had then wound up about two-thirds of the cable. Immediately after, this remarkable occurrence
took place: The great heavy line came wholly up out of the water. A bolt flew out of the capstan,
which was a signal for the men who were at work on it to spring out of the way. The captain
shouted, "Cut the rope!" but that instant the iron capstan was torn out of the deck, and jumped
overboard, with the cable attached to it. I felt thankful for it, for I knew it was the only
thing that could put an end to our presumptuous attempt. I had felt that this rope would be
a great snare to us in case of accident. Three of our four rudders were broken; but the remaining
one enabled us to get into an eddy that carried us to a little cove, where we stopped to repair
damages sufficiently to come down the river.

All day, the rain had never ceased; and the river had seemed to me like some of those Greek
streams that Homer tells of, which had so much personal feeling against individuals. I felt
as if we were going to be punished for an audacious attempt, instead of rewarded for what might
otherwise have been considered a brave one. When the capstan disappeared, it was just as if
some great river-god, with a whiff of his breath, or a snap of his fingers, had tossed it contemptuously
aside. So we turned back defeated. But there was a great deal to enjoy, when we came to think
of it afterwards, and were safely out of it. We had seen nothing so bold and rugged before.
An old Scotchman, who knows more about it than any one else here, had said to us before we
started, "That British Columbia is such a terrible country, very little can ever be known of
it." But there was a great deal that was beautiful too. I was particularly struck with the
manner in which the Pend d'Oreille springs into the Columbia. Glen Ellis Fall, gliding down
in its swiftness, always seemed to me more beautiful than almost any thing else I ever saw.
But this river is more demonstrative. It springs up, and falls again in showers of spray, and
comes with great leaps out of the cañon, in a way that I cannot describe. There is in it more
freedom and strength and delight than in any thing else I ever saw. Far to the south-east,
this stream widens into Lake Pend d'Oreille. On this lake are the wonderful painted rocks,
rising far above the water, upon which, at the height of several hundred feet, are the figures
of men and animals, which the Indians say are the work of a race that preceded them. They are
afraid to approach the rocks, lest the waters should rise in anger, and ingulf them. There
are also hieroglyphic figures far up on the rocks of Lake Chelan, which is supposed to have
once been an arm of the Columbia. These paintings or picture-writings must have been made when
the water was so high in the lakes that they could be done by men in boats.

Most of the tributaries of the Upper Columbia are similar in character to the main stream,--wild,
unnavigable rivers, flowing through deep cañons, and full of torrents and rapids. With Nature
so vigorous and unsubdued about us, all conventionalities seemed swept away; and something
fresh and strong awoke in us, as if it had long slumbered until the presence of its kindred
in these mountain streams called it to consciousness,--something of the force and freedom of
these wild, tireless Titans, that poured down their white floods to the sea.

Most of these streams rise in lakes, and in some part of their course spread again into one
or more lakes; as, the Arrow Lakes of the Columbia, the Flat-head, Kootenay, Pend d'Oreille,
and Coeur d'Alêne, and the beautiful string of lakes of the Okinakane, and many others.

As we passed through the Upper Arrow Lake and Lower Arrow Lake, which lie in British Columbia,
we had some splendid views of mountain scenery. The Upper Lake is thirty-three miles long,
and three in width, crystalline water, surrounded by snow-covered peaks and precipices, and
forests of pine and cedar. The second is sixteen miles below the first, forty-two miles in
length, and two and a half wide. Innumerable arrows were sticking in the crevices of the rocks.
Formerly every Indian who passed deposited an arrow,--intended probably as an offering to the
spirit that rules over the chase, just as the Indian medicine-man, when he gathers his roots,
makes an offering to the earth.

The Catholic missionaries were much surprised to find crosses erected sometimes in lonely places,
and at first supposed some other priests must have preceded them; but learned that they were
set up by the Indians, in honor of the moon, to induce her to favor their nightly expeditions
for robbery or the chase.

  JULY 22, 1866. 

"Well, of course, one has very little ground for any real assertion, but we discussed the matter at some
length. I think I convinced her that it would be her wisest course to deliver up the letters
as soon as might be, and I assured her that we would let the matter
rest there and take no further steps.

I think she was impressed," and he sipped his tea slowly and solemnly.

"Impressed!

Yes, but what
has she promised?" Robin cried impatiently.

He knew Dahlia better than they did, and he did not feel somehow that she was very likely to be impressed
with Uncle Garrett. He was not the kind of man.

"Promised? No, not a precise promise--but she was quite pleasant and seemed to be open to argument--quite a
nice young person."

"Ah! you have done nothing!" There was a note of relief in Clare's exclamation. "Why not say so at
once, Garrett, instead of beating about the bush? There is an end of
it.

We have failed, Robin, both of us; we are where we were before, and what to do next I really don't
know."

It was rather a comfort to drag Garrett into it as well. She was glad that he had tried; it made her own
failure less noticeable.

Robin looked at both of them, gloomily, from the fireplace. Aunt Clare,
handsome, aristocratic, perfectly well fitted to pour out tea in any
society, but useless, useless, useless when it came to the real thing;
Uncle Garrett and his eyeglass, trying to make the most of a situation
in which he had most obviously failed--no, they were no good either
of them, and three weeks ago they had seemed the ultimate standard
by which his own life was to be tested.

How quickly one learnt!

"Well, what is to be done?" he said desperately.

"It's plain enough that she means to stick to the things; and, after
all, there can only be one reason for her doing it--she means to use
them.

I can see no way out of it at all--one must just stand up to it."

"We'll think, dear, we'll think," said Clare eagerly.

"Ideas are sure to come if we only wait."

"Wait! But we can't wait!" cried Robin.

"She'll move at once. Probably the letters are in the lawyer's hands
already."

"Then there's nothing to be done," said Garrett comfortably, settling back
again into his book--he was, he flattered himself, a man of most
excellent practical sense.

"No, it really seems, Robin, as if we had better wait," said Clare. "We must
have patience. Perhaps after all she has taken no steps."

But Robin was angry. He had long ago forgotten his share in the business;
he had adopted so successfully the rôle of injured sufferer that his
own actions seemed to him almost meritorious. But he was very angry
with them.

Here they were, in the face of a family crisis, deliberately adopting a policy of
laissez-faire; he had done his best and had failed, but he was young
and ignorant of the world (that at least he now admitted), but they
were old, experienced, wise--or, at least, they had always seemed
to him to stand for experience and wisdom, and yet they could do nothing--nay,
worse--they seemed to wish to do nothing--Oh! he was angry with them!

  

The whole room with its silver and knick-knacks--its beautifully worked
cushions and charming water-colours, its shining rows of complete
editions and dainty china stood to him now for incapacity.

Three weeks ago it had seemed his Holy of Holies.

"But we can't wait," he repeated--"we can't! Don't you see, Aunt Clare, she isn't the sort of girl
that waiting does for? She'd never dream of waiting herself." Dahlia seemed, by contrast with their
complacent acquiescence, almost admirable.

"Well, dear," Clare answered, "your uncle and I have both tried--I think
that we may be alarming ourselves unnecessarily.

I must say she didn't seem to me to bear any grudge against you.
I daresay she will leave things as they are----"

"Then why keep the letters?"

"Oh, sentiment. It would remind her, you see----"

But Robin could only repeat--"No, she's not that kind of girl," and marvel, perplexedly, at their short-sightedness.

And
then he approached the point--

"There is, of course," he said slowly, "one other person who might
help us----"

He paused.

Garrett put his book down and looked up. Clare leaned towards him.

"Yes?"
Clare looked slightly incredulous of any suggested remedy--but apparently
composed and a little tired of all this argument.

But, in reality, her heart was beating furiously. Had it come at last?--that first
mention of his father that she had dreaded for so many days.

"I really cannot think----" from Garrett.

"Why not my father?"

Again it seemed to Clare that she and Harry were struggling for Robin
... since that first moment of his entry they had struggled--she with
her twenty years of faithful service, he with nothing--Oh! it was
unfair!

"But, Robin," she said gently--"you can't--not, at least, after what
has happened.

This is an affair for ourselves--for the family."

"But he is the family!"

"Well, in a sense, yes.

But his long absence--his different way of looking at things--make
it rather hard. It would be better, wouldn't it, to settle it here,
without its going further."

"To settle it, yes--but we can't--we don't--we are leaving things
quite alone--waiting--when we ought to do something."

Robin knew that she was showing him that his father was still outside the
circle--that for herself and Uncle Garrett recent events had made
no difference.

But was he outside the circle? Why should he be? At any rate he would soon be head of the House,
and then it would matter very little----

"Also," Clare added, "he will scarcely have time just now. He is
with father all day--and I don't see what he could do, after all."

"He could see her," said Robin slowly. He suddenly remembered that Dahlia
had once expressed great admiration for his father--she was the very
woman to like that kind of man.

A hurried
mental comparison between his father and Uncle Garrett favoured the
idea.

"He could see her," he said again.

"I think she might like him."

"My dear boy," said Garrett, "take it from me that what a man could
do I've done.

I assure you it's useless. Your father is a very excellent man, but,
I must confess, in my opinion scarcely a diplomat----"

"Well, at any rate it's worth trying," cried Robin impatiently. "We must, I suppose, eat humble pie after the
things you said to him, Aunt Clare, the other day, but I must confess
it's the only chance.

He will be decent about it, I'm sure--I think you scarcely realise how nasty it promises to be."

"Who is to ask?" said Garrett.

"I will ask him," said Clare suddenly. "Perhaps after all Robin is right--he
might do something."

It might, she thought, be the best thing.

Unless he tried, Robin would always consider him capable of succeeding--but he
should try and fail--fail! Why, of course he would fail.

"Thank you, Aunt Clare." Robin walked to the door and then turned:
"Soon would be best"--then he closed the door behind him.

His father was coming down the stairs as he passed through the hall. He saw him
against the light of the window and he half turned as though to speak
to him--but his father gave no sign; he looked very stern--perhaps
his grandfather was dead.

The sudden fear--the terror of death brought very close to him for
the first time--caught him by the throat.

"He is not dead?" he whispered.

"He is asleep," Harry said, stopping for a moment on the last step of the stairs and looking at him across the
hall--"I am afraid that he won't live through the night."

They had both spoken softly, and the utter silence of the house, the
heaviness of the air so that it seemed to hang in thick clouds above
one's head, drove Robin out.

He looked as though he would speak, and then, with bent head, passed into the garden.

He felt most miserably lonely and depressed--if he hadn't been so old and
proud he would have hidden in one of the bushes and cried. It was
all so terrible--his grandfather, that weighty, eerie impression
of Death felt for the first time, the dreadful uncertainty of the
Feverel affair, all things were quite enough for misery, but this
feeling of loneliness was new to him.

He had always had friends, but even when they had failed him there had
been behind them the House--its traditions, its records, its history--his
aunt and uncle, and, most reassuring of all, himself.

But now all these had failed him. His friends were vaguely unattractive;
Randal was terribly superficial, he was betraying the House; his aunt
and uncle were unsatisfactory, and for himself--well, he wasn't quite
so splendid as he had once thought.

He was wretchedly dissatisfied with it all and felt that he would give
all the polish and culture in the world for a simple, unaffected friendship
in which he could trust.

"Some one," he said angrily, "that would do something"--and his thoughts
were of his father.

It was dark now, and he went down to the sea, because he liked the white flash
of the waves as they broke on the beach--this sudden appearing and disappearing
and the rustle of the pebbles as they turned slowly back and vanished
into the night again.

He liked, too, the myriad lights of the town: the rows of lamps, rising tier on tier into the night sky, like
people in some great amphitheatre waiting in silence for the rising
of a mighty curtain. He always thought on these nights of Germany--Germany,
Worms, the little bookseller, the distant gleam of candles in the Cathedrals,
the flash of the sun through the trees over the Rhine, the crooked,
cobbled streets at night with the moon like a lamp and the gabled
roofs flinging wild shadows over the stones ... the night-sea brought
it very close and carried Randal and Cambridge and Dahlia Feverel
very far away, although he did not know why.

He watched the light of the town and the waves and the great flashing
eye of the lighthouse and then turned back.

As he climbed the steps up the cliff he heard some one behind him, and, turning, saw that it was
Mary Bethel. She said "Good-night" quickly and was going to pass him,
but he stopped her.

"I haven't seen you for ages, Mary," he said. He resolved to speak to her. She knew his father
and had always been a good sort--perhaps she would help him.

"Are you coming back, Robin?" she said, stopping and smiling. There
was a lamp at the top of the cliff where the road ran past the steps,
and by the light of it he saw that she had been crying.

But he was too much occupied with his own affairs to consider the matter
very deeply, and then girls cried so easily.

"Yes,"
he said, "let us go round by the road and the Chapel--it's a splendid night; besides,
we don't seem to have met recently. We've both been busy, I suppose,
and I've a good deal to talk about."

"If you like," she said, rather listlessly. It would, at least, save
her from her own thoughts and protect her perhaps from the ceaseless
repetition of that scene of three days ago when she had turned the
man that she loved more than all the world away and had lied to him
because she was proud.

And so at first she scarcely listened to him. They walked down the road that ran along the top of the cliff
and the great eye of the lighthouse wheeled upon them, flashed and vanished;
she saw the room with its dingy carpet and wide-open window, and
she heard his voice again and saw his hands clenched--oh! she had
been a fine fool!

So it was little wonder that she did not hear his son.

But Robin had at last an audience and he knew no mercy. All the agitation of the last week came pouring
forth--he lost all sense of time and place; he was at the end of the world addressing infinity on the
subject of his woes, and it says a good deal for his vanity and not much
for his sense of humour that he did not feel the lack of proportion
in such a position.

"It was a girl, you know--perhaps you've met her--a Miss Feverel--Dahlia Feverel. I met her at Cambridge
and we got rather thick, and then I wrote to her--rot, you know, like one does--and when I wanted
to get back the letters she wouldn't let me have them, and she's going to use them, I'm afraid, for--well--Breach
of Promise!"

He paused and waited for the effect of the announcement, but it never came; she was walking quickly,
with her head lifted to catch the wind that blew from the sea--he
could not be certain that she had heard.

"Breach of Promise!" he repeated impressively. "It would be rather an awful thing for people in our
position if it really came to that--it would be beastly for me. Of course, I meant nothing by it--the
letters, I mean--a chap never does. Everybody at Cambridge talks to girls--the
girls like it--but she took it seriously, and now she may bring it down
on our heads at any time, and you can't think how beastly it is waiting for
it to come. We've done all we could--all of us--and now I can tell
you it's been worrying me like anything wondering what she's done. My
uncle and aunt both tried and failed; I was rather disappointed, because
after all one would have thought that they would be able to deal with
a thing like that, wouldn't one?"

He paused again, but she only said "Yes" and hurried on.

"So now I'm at my wits' end and I thought that you might help me."

"Why not your father?" she said suddenly.

"Ah! that's just it," he answered eagerly. "That's where I wanted you to give
me your advice.

You see--well, it's a little hard to explain--we weren't very nice
to the governor when he came back first--the first day or two, I mean.

He was--well, different--didn't look at things as we did; liked different
things and had strong views about knocking down the Cove. So we went on
our way and didn't pay much attention to him--I daresay he's told
you all about it--and I'm sorry enough now, although it really was largely
his own fault!

I don't think he seemed to want us to have much to do with him, and
then one day Clare spoke to him about things and asked him to consider
us a little and he flared up.

"Well, I've a sort of idea that he could help us now--at any rate, there's
no one else.

Aunt Clare said that she would ask him, but you know him better than
any of us, and, of course, it is a little difficult for us, after
the way that we've spoken to him; you might help us, I thought."

He couldn't be sure, even now, that Mary had been listening--she looked
so strange this evening that he was afraid of her, and half wished
that he had kept his affairs to himself.

She was silent for a moment, because she was wondering what it was
that Harry had really done about the letters. It was amusing, because they
obviously didn't know that she had told him--but what had he done?

"Do you want me to help you, Robin?" she asked.

"Yes, of course," he answered eagerly.

       "You know him so well and could get him to do things that he would never do
for us. I'm afraid of him, or rather have been just lately. I don't know
what there is about him exactly."

"You want me to help you?" she asked again.

"Well then, you've got to put up with a bit of my mind--you've caught me in a
bad mood, and I don't care whether it hurts you or not--you're in for a bit
of plain speaking."

He looked up at her with surprise, but said nothing.

"Oh, I know I'm no very great person myself," she went on quickly--almost fiercely. "I've only known
in the last few weeks how rotten one can really be, but at least I have known--I
do know--and that's just what you don't. We've been friends for some
time, you and I--but if you don't look out, we shan't be friends much
longer."

"Why?" he asked quietly.

"You were never very much good," she went on, paying no attention to his question, "and always conceited, but
that was your aunt's fault as much as any one's, and she gave you that idea of your family--that you
were God's own chosen people and that no one could come within speaking
distance of you--you had that when you were quite a little boy, and
you seem to have thought that that was enough, that you need never
do anything all your life just because you were a Trojan.

Eton helped the idea, and when you went up to Cambridge you were
a snob of the first order.

I thought Cambridge would knock it out of you, but it didn't; it encouraged
you, and you were always with people who thought as you did, and you
fancied that your own little corner of the earth--your own little potato-patch--was
better than every one else's gardens; I thought you were a pretty
poor thing when you came back from Cambridge last year, but now you've
beaten my expectations by a good deal----"

"I say----" he broke in--"really I----" but she went on unheeding--

"Instead of working and doing something like any decent man would, you loafed along with your friends
learning to tie your tie and choosing your waistcoat-buttons; you go and make love to a decent
girl and then when you've tired of her tell her so, and seem surprised
at her hitting back.

"Then at last when there is a chance of your seeing what a man is
like--that he isn't only a man who dresses decently like a tailor's
model--when your father comes back and asks you to spend a few of
your idle hours with him, you laugh at him, his manners, his habits,
his friends, his way of thinking; you insult him and cut him dead--your
father, one of the finest men in the world.

Why, you aren't fit to brush his clothes!--but that isn't the worst! Now--when you find you're in
a hole and you want some one to help you out of it and you don't know where to turn, you suddenly think
of your father. He wasn't any good before--he was rough and stupid, almost vulgar,
but now that he can help you, you'll turn and play the dutiful son!
"That's you as you are, Robin Trojan--you asked me for it and you've
got it; it's just as well that you should see yourself as you are
for once in your life--you'll forget it all again soon enough. I'm
not saying it's only you--it's the lot of you--idle, worthless, snobbish,
empty, useless. Help you? No! You can go to your father yourself and
think yourself lucky if he will speak to you."

Mary stopped for lack
of breath. Of course, he couldn't know that she'd been attacking herself
as much as him, that, had it not been for that scene three days ago,
she would never have spoken at all.

"I say!" he said quietly, "is
it really as bad as that? Am I that sort of chap?"

"Yes. You know
it now at least."

"It's not quite fair. I am only like the rest.
I----"

"Yes, but why should you be? Fancy being proud that you are
like the rest! One of a crowd!"

They turned up the road to her house,
and she began to relent when she saw that he was not angry.

"No,"
he said, nodding his head slowly, "I expect you're about right, Mary.
Things have been happening lately that have made everything different--I've
been thinking ... I see my father differently...."

Then, "How could
you?" she cried. "You to cut him and turn him out? Oh! Robin! you
weren't always that sort----"

"No," he answered. "I wasn't once.
In Germany I was different--when I got away from things--but it's
harder here"--and then again slowly--"But am I really as bad as that,
Mary?"

Sudden compunction seized her. What right had she to speak
to him? After all, he was only a boy, and she was every bit as bad
herself.

"Oh! I don't know!" she said wearily. "I'm all out of sorts
to-night, Robin. We're neither of us fit to speak to him, and you've
treated him badly, all of you--I oughtn't to have spoken as I did,
perhaps; but here we are! You'd better forget it, and another day
I'll tell you some of the nice things about you----"

"Am I that sort
of chap?" he said again, staring in front of him with his hand on
the gate. She said good-night and left him standing in the road. He
turned up the hill, with his head bent. He was scarcely surprised
and not at all angry. It only seemed the climax to so many things
that had happened lately--"a snob"--"a pretty poor thing"--"You don't
work, you learn to choose your waistcoat-buttons"--that was the kind
of chap he was. And his father: "One of the finest men there is----"
He'd missed his chance, perhaps, he would never get it again! But
he would try!

He passed into the garden and fumbled for his latch-key.
He would speak to his father to-morrow!

Mary was quite right ...
he was a "pretty poor thing!"

CHAPTER XIV

That night was never forgotten
by any one at "The Flutes." Down in the servants' hall they prolonged
their departure for bed to a very late hour, and then crept, timorously,
to their rooms; they were extravagant with the electric light, and
dared Benham's anger in order to secure a little respite from terrible
darkness. Stories were recalled of Sir Jeremy's kindness and good
nature, and much speculation was indulged in as to his successor--the
cook recalled her early youth and an engagement with a soldier that
aroused such sympathy in her hearers that she fraternised, unexpectedly,
with Clare's maid--a girl who had formerly been considered "haughty,"
but was now found to be agreeable and pleasant. In our expedition on the "Forty-nine," we
had seen a great many miners, and, among them, one horrid character, with a flaming beard,
who was known by every one as "Red." He had been mining in the snow mountains, far up in British
Columbia, and joined us to go down on the steamer to Colville. He was terribly rough and tattered-looking.
The mining-season in those northern mountains is so short, that he said he was going back to
winter at the mines, so as to be on the spot for work in the spring, and that he should take
up about forty gallons of grease to keep himself warm through the winter.

He and his companions told great stories about their rough times in the mountains. Some of
them mentioned having been reduced to the extremity of living on "ferrins" when all other food
had failed. These accounts were generally received, by the rest of the miners, with great outbursts
of laughter. That appeared to be their customary way of regarding all their misfortunes,--at
least, in the retrospect. We wondered what the "ferrins" could be. Nobody seemed to resort
to them, except in the direst need. Upon inquiry, we found out that they were boiled ferns.
I have always noticed that even insects of all kinds pass by ferns. I suspect that even the
hungriest man would find them rather unsatisfying, but this light diet seemed to have kept
them in the most jovial spirits.

R. was rather averse to travelling in such company, and always presented "Red" to me as the
typical miner, when opportunities offered for our getting down from Colville with a party from
the mines. Finally I persuaded him to accept either "Buffalo Bill," who offered to take us
by ourselves, or an Irishman who insisted upon having a few miners with him. I think he was
rather prejudiced against the former, on account of his name; and we therefore made an agreement
with the latter, to take us, with only two miners, instead of ten as he at first desired, that
R. should see them before we started, and that we should have the wagon to ourselves at night.
As it happened, we left in haste, and did not see the miners until they leaped from the wagon,
and began to assist in putting in our baggage. That was not an occasion, of course, for criticising
them. Besides that, I saw, when I first looked at them, that they were rather harder to read
than most people I had met; and I could not in a minute tell what to make of them. Our wagoner
said they were "broke miners." I did not know exactly what that meant, but thought they might
be very desperate characters, made more so by special circumstances. One of them looked like
a brigand, with his dark hair and eyes. But I didn't mind; for I was tired of travelling about,
and anxious to get home. I thought I would sleep most of the way down; so I put back my head,
and shut my eyes. Presently the dark man began to talk with R., in a musical voice, about the
soft Spanish names of places in California; and I could not sleep much. Then he spoke of the
primitive forms in which minerals crystallized, the five-sided columns of volcanic rock, and
the little cubes of gold. I could make no pretence at sleep any longer; I had to open my eyes;
and once in a while I asked a question or two, although I would not show much interest, and
determined not to become at all acquainted with him, because we were necessarily to be very
intimate, travelling all day together, and camping together at night. But I watched him a great
deal, and listened to his conversation upon many subjects. I think, that not only on this journey,
but in all the time since we came to this coast, we have not enjoyed any thing else so much.
He had uncommon powers of expression, and of thought and feeling too, and took great interest
in every thing. He had even a little tin box of insects. He showed us the native grains, wild
rice, etc., the footprints of animals, the craters of old volcanoes, and called us to listen
to the wild doves at night, and the cry of the loon and the curlew.

We travelled in a large freight-wagon, drawn by four mules. A pretty little "bell-mare" followed
the wagon. At night she was tied out on the plain; and the mules were turned loose to feed,
and were kept from wandering far away by the tinkle of the bell hung on her neck. We slept
on beautiful flowering grass, which our wagoner procured for us on the way. Mademoiselle said nothing
but resolution was wanting to shake off a headache.

'Have you found it so?' I asked.

'At any rate, it is better than the doses Mademoiselle gives me,' she
said.

'You shall try my remedy this time,' I said; and I set out for the
little village church, which stood at the garden-gate, with a fixed
determination that this state of things--slow torture and murder,
as it seemed to me--should not go on.

If one work bequeathed to me by my dear Philippe was to take care
of his uncle, another surely was to save and protect his sister.

CHAPTER VIII.

MARGUERITE TO THE RESCUE.

It was in my favour that M. de Nidemerle had conceived a very high opinion of me, far above my deserts. My dear
husband's letters had been full of enthusiasm for me. I found them
all among the Marquis's papers; and his tenderness and gratitude, together
with the circumstances of my return, had invested me with a kind
of halo, which made me a sort of heroine in his eyes.

Besides, I did my best to make the old man's life more cheerful. I read
him the Gazette that came once a week, I played at cards with him
all the evening, and I sometimes even wrote or copied his letters
on business; and, when I sat at my embroidery, he liked to come and
sit near me, sometimes talking, playing with Gaspard, or dozing.

He was passionately fond of Gaspard, and let the child domineer over him in a way that sometimes shocked
me.

Thus he was ready to believe what I told him of his niece, and assured
me I might keep her with me as long as I wished, if the Countess,
her mother-in-law, would consent.

The first thing we did together was that I took her to see her children. The boy was at a farm not very
far off; he was seven months old, and a fine healthy infant, though not as clean as I could have wished;
but then Tryphena and I had been looked on as barbarians, who would certainly be the death of Gaspard,
because we washed him all over every evening, and let him use his legs and arms.
Cecile was enchanted; she saw an extraordinary resemblance between
her son and his father; and hugged the little form like one who had
been famished.

Our search for the little Armantine was less prosperous. Cecile could
not ride, nor could even walk a quarter of a mile without nearly dying
of fatigue; nay, the jolting of the coach as we drove along the road would
have been insupportable to her but for her longing to see her little
one.

We drove till it was impossible to get the coach any farther, and still the farm was only just in sight.

I
jumped out and said I would bring the child to her, and I went up between the hedges with two lackeys behind
me, till I came to a farmyard, where three or four children, muddy up
to the very eyes, were quarrelling and playing with the water of a
stagnant pool. I made my way through animals, dogs, and children,
to the farm kitchen, where an old grandmother and a beggar sat on
two chairs opposite to one another, on each side of the fire, and
a young woman was busy over some raw joints of an animal.

They stared at me with open mouths, and when I said that Madame la Comtesse d'Aubepine was come to see her
child, and was waiting in the carriage, they looked as if such a
thing had never been heard of before.

The young woman began to cry--the old woman to grumble. I think if they had
dared, they would have flown into a passion, and I was really alarmed
lest the child might be sick or even dead. I told them impressively who
I was, and demanded that they would instantly show me the little one.

The
young woman, muttering something, stepped out and brought in her arms
the very dirtiest child of the whole group I had left in the gutter, with
the whole tribe behind her. My first impulse was to snatch it up
and carry it away to its mother, taking it home at once to Nid de Merle;
but it squalled and kicked so violently when I held out my arms to
it, that it gave me time to think that to carry it thus away without
authority might only bring Cecile into trouble with those who had
the mastery over her, and that to see it in such a condition could
only give her pain.

I should not have objected to the mere surface dirt of grubbing in
the farmyard (shocking as it may sound to you, Mademoiselle mes Petites
Filles).

Eustace and I had done such things at Walwyn and been never the worse
for it; but this poor little creature had a wretched, unwholesome, neglected
air about her that made me miserable, and the making her fit to be seen would
evidently be a long business, such as could hardly be undertaken
in the midst of the salting of a pig, which was going on.

I therefore promised the woman a crown if she would make the child tidy
and bring her to Nid de Merle on the Sunday. Something was muttered about
Mademoiselle having said the child was not to be constantly brought to
the house to incommonde Madame la Comtesse; but I made her understand
that I meant Nid de Merle, and trusted that the hope of the money
would be a bait.

Cecile was sorely disappointed when I returned without the child,
and conjured me at once to tell her the worst, if it were indeed dead;
but she let herself be pacified by the hope of seeing it on Sunday,
and indeed she was half dead with fatigue from the roughness of the
road.

The child was duly brought by the foster-mother who was in the full
costume of a prosperous peasant, with great gold cross and gay apron;
but I was not better satisfied about the little on, though she had
a cleaner face, cap, and frock.

Unused to the sight of black, she would let neither of us touch her, and we could
only look at her, when she sat on her nurse's knee with a cake in her hand.
I was sure she was unhealthy and uncared for, her complexion and
everything about her showed it, and my Gaspard was twice her size.

It was well for the peace of the young mother that she knew so little
what a child ought to be like, and that her worst grief was that the little Armantine would
not go to her.

'And oh! they will send her straight into a convent as soon as she is
weaned, and I shall never have her with me!' sighed Cecile.

'ON' ON had done many harsh things towards my poor little sister-in-
law, and I began now to consider of whom ON now consisted.

It seemed to me to be only Mademoiselle de Gringrimeau acting in
the name of the doting Countess and the absent husband, and that one
resolute effort might emancipate the poor young thing.

I was still considering the matter, and rallying my forces, when a message
came from the Chateau l'Aube that Madame la Douariere was dying, and
Madame la Comtesse must return instantly. I went with her; I could not
let her return alone to Mademoiselle's tender mercies, and the Marquis
approved and went with us.

In fact, the two chateaux were not two miles apart, through the lanes and woods, though the way by the
road was much longer.

The old Countess lingered another day and then expired.

Before the funeral ceremonies were over, I had seen how Mademoiselle de Gringrimeau
tyrannise over this young sister-in-law, who was still a mere gentle child,
and was absolutely cowed by the woman. When I tried to take her home
with me, Mademoiselle had the effrontery to say that the Count himself,
as well as the late dowager, had given her authority over Madame
as dame de compagnie, and that she did not consider it etiquette to
visit after so recent a bereavement, thus decidedly hitting at me.

However, I had made up my mind. I entreated my poor weeping Cecile to hold
out yet a little longer in hope; and then I returned home to lay the
whole situation before the Marquis, and to beg him to assert his authority
as uncle, and formally request that she might reside under his protection
while her husband was with the army--a demand which could hardly fail
to be granted.

I wrote also to M. d'Aubepine, over whom I thought I had some influence,
and added likewise a letter to my half-brother De Solivet, explaining
the situation, and entreating him to get the young gentleman into
his lodgings, and not let him out till he had written his letters,
signed and sealed them!

The plan answered. In due time our courier returned, and with all
we wanted in the way of letters, with one great exception, alas!
any true sign of tenderness for the young wife.

There was a formal letter for her, telling her to put herself and her
children under the charge of her uncle and her brother's widow, leaving
the charge of the chateau and the servants to the intendant and to
Mademoiselle de Gringrimeau.

The poor child had to imbibe what her yearning heart could extract from the
conventional opening and close.

I have my share of the budget still, and her it is:---

'MADAME--You still love to play your part of beneficent angel, and wish
to take on your shoulder my impedimenta.

Well, be it so then; though I have no hope that you will make thereof (en) anything like yourself. Kissing your
hands. 'LE COMTE D'AUBEPINE.'

His whole family was thus disposed of in two letters of the alphabet
(en).

M. de Nidemerle received a polite request to undertake the charge of his
niece, and Mademoiselle had likewise her orders, and I heard from
my brother how he had smiled at my commands, but had found them necessary,
for Armand d'Aubepine had been exactly like a naughty boy forced
to do a task.

Not that he had the smallest objection to his wife and children being
with me--in fact, he rather preferred it; he only hated being troubled
about the matter, wanted to go to a match at tennis, and thought it
good taste to imitate the Duke of Enghien in contempt for the whole
subject. Would he ever improve?

My brother did not give much present hope of it, saying that on returning to winter quarters he had found
the lad plunged all the deeper in dissipation for want of the check that my dear husband had been able to impose
on him; but neither M. de Solivet nor the Marquis took it seriously, thinking
it only what every youth in the army went through, unless he were such
a wonderful exception as my dear Philippe had been.

Cecile could hardly believe that such peace and comfort were in store
for her, and her tyrant looked as gloomy as Erebus at losing her slave,
but we did not care for that; we brought her home in triumph, and
a fortnight's notice was given to the foster-mother in which to wean
Mademoiselle d'Aubepine and bring her to Nid de Merle.

That fortnight was spent by our guest in bed. As if to justify Mademoiselle de Gringrimeau, she was no sooner
under my care than she had a sharp illness; but Tryphena, who had been so instructed by my grandmother,
Lady Walwyn, as to be more skilful than any doctor, declared that
it was in consequence of the long disregard of health and strain of
spirits, and so managed her that, though never strong, she improved
much in health, and therewith in looks.

Beautiful
she could hardly be, as the world counts beauty, but to me her sweet, tender, wistful expression
made her countenance most lovable, and so did her gentle unmurmuring humility. She sincerely believed that
all the cruel slights she underwent were the result of her own ugliness, stupidity, and ignorance, and
instead of blaming her husband, she merely pitied him for being tied to her. As to grating that her
brother had been a better man than her husband, she would have thought
that high treason--the difference was only that her dear Marguerite was so pretty,
so clever, amiable, and well taught, that she had won his heart.

In truth, I had outgrown the ungainliness of my girlhood, and, now
that it did not matter to any one, had become rather a handsome woman,
and it was of no use to tell her that I had been worse than she, because
there was so much more of me, when my dear young husband gave me the
whole of his honest heart.

To make herself, at least, less dull was her next desire. One reason why she had so seldom written
was that she knew she could not spell, and Mademoiselle insisted on
looking over her letters that they might not be a disgrace.

I doubted whether M. le Comte would have discovered the errors, but
when the Marquis praised some letters that I had written to amuse him
from Nancy and Mezieres, she was fired with ambition to write such clever
letters as might bewitch her husband. Besides, if she could teach
her daughter, the child need not be banished to a convent.

I began to give her a few lessons in the morning, and to read to her.
And just then there came to Nid de Merle, to see me, the good Abbe Bonchamp,
the excellent tutor to whom my dear Philippe always said he owed so
much.

The good man had since had another employment, and on quitting it, could not help gratifying his desire
to me and see the wife and child of his dear pupil, as indeed I had
begged him to do, if ever it were in his power, when I fulfilled my
husband's wishes by writing his last greeting and final thanks to
the good man.

I remember the dear quaint form riding up on a little hired mule, which
he almost concealed with his cassock. Above, his big hat looked so strange
that Gaspard, who was wonderfully forward for his age, ran up to
me crying: 'A droll beast, mamma! it had four legs and a great hat!'
while little Armantine fled crying from the monster.

All the servants were, however, coming out eagerly to receive the blessing of the good man, who had mad himself
much beloved in the household. The Marquis embraced him with tears, and presented him to me, when
he fell on his knee, took my hand, pressed it to his lips and bathed it with his tears, and then held
Gaspard to his breast with fervent love.

It was necessary to be cheerful before M. de Nidemerle.

He had truly loved his nephew, and mourned for him, but the aged do not like a
recurrence to sorrow, so the abbe amused him with the news brought from
Saumur, and our party at cards was a complete one that evening.

But the next day, the Abbe, who had loved his pupil like a son, could
talk of him to me, and it was a comfort I cannot express to my aching
heart to converse with him. Everything had settled into an ordinary
course. People fancied me consoled; I had attended to other things,
and I could not obtrude my grief on the Marquis or on Cecile; but on!

My sick yearning for my Philippe only grew the more because I might
not mention him or hear his name. However, the Abbe only longed to listen
to all I could tell him of the last three years, and in return to tell
me much that I should never otherwise have known of the boyhood and
youth of my dear one.

I felt as if the good man must never leave
us, and I entreated M. de Nidemerle to retain him at once as governor
to little Gaspard. The Marquis laughed at securing a tutor for a child
not yet three years old; but he allowed that the boy could not be
in better hands, and, moreover, he was used to the Abbe, and liked
to take his arm and to have him to make up the party at cards, which
he played better than the cure.

So the Abbe remained as chaplain
and as tutor, and, until Gaspard should be old enough to profit by
his instructions, Cecile and I entreated him to accept us as pupils.
I had begun to feel the need of some hard and engrossing work to take
off my thoughts alike from my great sorrow and my pressing anxieties
about my English home, so that I wished to return to my Latin studies
again, and the Abbe helped me to read Cicero de Officiis again, and
likewise some of the writings of St. Gregory the Great. His arrangements
looked a great deal more picturesque than our preparations for picnics.

The light-keeper at Ediz Hook told us to-day that he had exhumed an old Indian woman, whom
some of her tribe had buried alive, or, rather, wrapped up and laid away in one of the little
wooden huts in their graveyard, according to their custom of disposing of the dead. They had
apparently become tired of the care of her, and concluded to anticipate her natural exit from
the world by this summary disposition of her. Mr. S. heard her cries, and went to the rescue.
He restored her to the tribe, with a reprimand for their barbarity, and told them the Bostons
would not tolerate such mesahchie (outrageous) proceedings.

  PORT ANGELES, October 31, 1866.

We made a spirited voyage to Victoria, across the Straits of Fuca. There had been a very severe
storm, which we thought was over; but it had a wild ending, after we were on our way, and beyond
the possibility of return. We saw the California steamer, ocean-bound, putting back to port.
Our only course was to hasten on. The spray was all rainbows, and there were low rainbows in
the sky,--incomprehensible rainbows above and below,--and the strongest wind that ever blew.
It was all too wonderful for us to be afraid: it was like a new existence; as if we had cast
off all connection with the old one, and were spirits only. We flew past the high shores, and
looked up at the happy, homelike houses, with a strange feeling of isolation and independence
of all earthly ties.

I staid on deck till every man had gone in, feeling that I belonged wholly to wind and wave,
borne on like a bird. But the captain came and took me in, lest I should be swept from the
deck. When we reached Victoria, great wooden signs were being blown off the stores, and knocking
down the people in the streets. This is certainly the home of the winds.

  NOVEMBER 20, 1866. 

"Should say 't was a mud-turtle by the looks of his legs," said Bob.

"Nurth, do turtle-doves live in the mud?" said Pip.

"Nonsense," said Bob, "as if birds ever lived in the mud!"

"Well," said Pip, "thum thwallows, I know, make their neths of mud, and then they live in their neths, and
that's living in mud. But here comth the Profethor; let's see what heeth
found.

  It's thumthin in a glath."

The Professor came up, walking very slowly across the grass; then
stepped carefully up upon the piazza, and, as he passed the window,
he called for some one to come and open the front door.

All the children ran together, and opened the door with such a flourish,
the Professor was obliged to call out, "Stand off!

Hands off!"

"Will it splode?" said Pip.

"Will it bite?" said Bob.

"Will it fly away?" said Tom.

"It will splode," said the Professor, "and it will fly away; but it
won't bite."

"Oh my!" said Pip, "what can it be?

I never heard of any creature splodin!"

The Professor looked pleased; his face was red, his hair was tumbled,
his coat was torn, and his boots and trousers were muddy.

"You look as if you had had a hard time catching the creature, whatever
it is," said nurse.

"You'd better leave it out-of-doors now, and clean yourself, and
come and eat your luncheon."

"Oh, please, nurse, let's see it now!" said all the children; and
nurse, who wanted to see it herself, agreed.

  

"You can't see it," said the Professor; "it's invisible! You can't see it
till it disappears!"

"Oh dear," said Pip, "I just ache to know about it."

"Well," said the Professor, "light mamma's wax-taper."

"I don't see what good lighting a taper will do, if the creature's invisible," said Bob.

The Professor set his burden down on the table. It was a saucer filled
with water, and in the water stood a tumbler upside down.

There was nothing to be seen in the tumbler.

The Professor
struck an attitude.

"What I have in this tumbler, nurse and children, was obtained with
great difficulty.

I've been about it ever since lesson-time."

"Where did you find it?" says Pip.

"How came you to know about it?" says Tom.

"I should think it would be hard to catch nothing," says Bob.

"I found it in the water, in the little pool in our woods. I saw it first the other night in the dark,
and I caught it to-day when it was hiding.

I took a long stick and gently stirred up the dead leaves that lie
rotting on the bottom, and he began to come up--first one, then another--now
here, and now there."

"Ho! ho!" says Bob. "How could that be? How could he come up in pieces, and in different places?"

"Poor thing!" said Pip. "He wath dead!"

"Oh, if he's dead I don't care about him," says Bob.

"He's far from dead," said the Professor; "and though he was in pieces,
he's all together now, and safe in this tumbler."

And then, seizing the lighted taper, he turned up the tumbler, held
the taper quickly to its mouth, and--Pop! went something, with a quick
flash.

"Oh, fire-works!" says Bob.

"Oh, tell us truly about it!" says Tom. "Where did you buy it? Let's have some for the Fourth!"

"Children," said the Professor, "I have told you the truth about it.
It's gas. It's carbureted hydrogen. I found it in the pond. 'Carbureted
hydrogen' is its science name. Its poetry name is 'Will-o'-the-wisp,'
and there's another name besides."

"I should think two names were enough for nothing," says Bob.

"What'th the other name?" said Pip.

"Ignis fatuus," said the Professor.

"It means 'Cheating-fire.' Sometimes this gas, rising to the top of the
water in bubbles, takes fire (by what they call spontaneous combustion,
or by mixing with some other gas, or in some other way), and then,
as one bubble after another takes fire and goes flickering along,
it looks as if some one were walking through the woods with a lantern."

"And

thath how it cheat-th, isn't it?" said Pip.

"But I don't thee how it is thet afire.

  Perhapth, now--perhapth it's the fire-flyth!"

"Oh, good for you!" said the Professor; and he chased her round the
table, and caught her, and kissed her.

"Well, how did you ever get it with that tumbler?" said Tom.

"Well, easy enough. First, I filled the tumbler with water. Then I laid the saucer over the top.
Then I plunged the whole under the water, holding tumbler and saucer
with both hands firm, and turned them over in the water, and drew
them out.

The saucer, as well as the tumbler, was then full of water, and though the tumbler was upside down the water
couldn't fall out."

"What hindered it, I'd like to know?" said Bob.

"Atmospheric pressure," said the Professor, pushing the words out slowly.
"The whole atmosphere weighs down on the water in the saucer and
balances the water in the tumbler and keeps it in."

"It had all leaked out before you reached home, anyway," said Bob.

"The gas pushed it out," said the Professor, "I told you how I stirred
up the bottom of the pool.

It was all covered with dead leaves. These as they rot give out gas,
but it cannot easily escape from the bottom, and stays down among the
leaves and slime till it is stirred up. Then the little bubbles of
gas come popping up, and as they mount I am ready with my tumbler
and saucer.

I slip them both softly into the water a little way off, draw out
the saucer, slide the inverted tumbler over the bubbles before they
break; and the gas mounts into the tumbler, each bubble of gas displacing
a little water; then over more bubbles, and more and more, until all
the water in the tumbler is out and the gas is in its place; then
I fill the saucer with water again, slide it under the tumbler, and
bring it home."

"Come to your luncheon, children," cried nurse. "The pudding will be cold."

"Oh,
wait a minute," said Tom. "You said the gas drove out the water in
the tumbler.

Why don't it drive out the water in the saucer?"

The Professor looked puzzled.

"Well, it would in time, I suppose. But you see, its nature is to push upward, because it's light----"

"Oh, now, it pushes the same every way," said Tom.

"There's something we don't know," said Bob.

"Oh, yeth, I am afwaid we don't know it all," said Pip.

"Well," drawled the Professor, "I don't know, only I guess it's because
the water is too dense--too close together, for one thing; and the
same atmospheric pressure that kept the water in keeps the gas in,
for another."

"There, I do believe that's it," said Pip. "Oh, how nice it did pop
off!

Like a vewy small fwier-cracker a great way off. Now let's have some pudding.
Apple and sago! Just the nithest pudding in the world!"

One day an ant went to visit her neighbor; She found her quite busy
with all sorts of labor; So she didn't go in, but stopped at the sill;
Left her respects, and went back to her hill.

FOUR CHARADES.[A]

BY C. P. CRANCH.

I.

When swiftly in my first you glide along, Naught ruffles up the temper
of your mind; All goes as smoothly as a summer song, All objects
flit beside you like the wind.

But if you should be stopped in your career, And forced to linger when you fain would fly, You'll leave
my first, and, very much I fear, Will fall into my second speedily.

Till in some snug and comfortable room Your friends receive you as a welcome
guest, You'll own that Winter's robbed of half his gloom, When on
my whole your feet in slippers rest.

II.

MY FIRST.

I sunder friends, yet give to laws A place to stand and plead their
cause. Though justice and sobriety Still find their safest ground
in me, I spread temptation in man's way, And rob and ruin every day.

MY SECOND.

Success and power are in my name, Men strive for me far more than fame.
One thing I am unto the wise, But quite another in fools' eyes, Through
me the world is rich and strong, Yet too much love of me is wrong.

MY WHOLE.

My
first and second when they meet, As lawyers' fees, my whole complete. And
yet my first too oft enjoyed, Is sure to make my second void. My whole
is good and bad by turns, As every merchant daily learns.

III.

My first the stout Hibernian wields On banks and streets and stubborn
fields, To earn the bread that labor yields.

My second is a name for one Whose youth and age together run, A leader all
good people shun.

My whole in summer-time is sweet, When youths and maids together meet
Beneath some shady grove's retreat.

(So simple is this short charade, That I am very much afraid You'll guess at once,
without my aid.)

IV.

When I was a little boy, how welcome was my first; When tired of play I went to bed, my lessons all rehearsed.
How soundly all the night I slept, without a care or sorrow, And waked when sunshine lit the room,
and robins sang good-morrow.

When I was a little boy, what joy it was to see My second waiting
at the door for Willy and for me; And how we trotted off to bring
ripe apples from the farm, And piled our bags on Nellie's back, nor
felt the least alarm.

But when I was a little boy, I had an ugly dream, A huge black bear was in
my bed, I gave a dreadful scream, And roused the house; they brought
in lights, and put my whole to flight, Since then I made a vow to eat
no supper late at night.

[A] The answers will be given in the "Letter-Box" for May, 1878.

WISE CATHERINE AND THE KABOUTERMANNEKEN.

BY HOWARD PYLE.

In old times, there was once a quaint little dwarf, who was known
as the Kaboutermanneken of Kaboutermannekensburg.

In the very ancient times of good King Broderic and Frederic Barbarossa,
he constantly lived above ground, and many times was seen trudging along
through the moonlit forest with a bag over his shoulder. What was in
the bag nobody exactly knew, but most people supposed it to be gold.

The Kaboutermanneken was a peppery little fellow, and at the slightest
word his rage would fire up hotly. Since he was quite able, small as
he was, to thrash the strongest man, he was very generally avoided.

It is a well-assured fact that, as churches increase, dwarfs and elfin-folk
diminish; so, at last, when the town of Kaboutermannekensburg was
founded, and a church built, the Kaboutermanneken was fairly driven
to the wall, or, rather, into the ground, where he lived in the bowels
of the earth, and only appeared at intervals of a hundred years.

But, upon the last day that terminated each of these series of a hundred years, he would re-appear in his
old haunts, and, I believe, continues the practice to the present
day, in spite of railroads, steam-engines, and all the paraphernalia
of progress, so destructive to fairy lore.

I.--THE GOLDEN CUP.

Once upon a time, after the Kaboutermanneken's visits had become events
of such rarity, there lived a worthy wood-chopper, who had a daughter
named Catherine; a pretty little maiden of sixteen, and yet the wisest
woman in the kingdom of Kaboutermannekensburg.

Shrewd as she was, she had yet the best, the kindest, and the most guileless heart
in the world; and many a sick man, troubled woman, and grieved child
had cause to bless her and her wisdom. One winter, when labor was
cheap and bread expensive, the wood-chopper, whose name was Peter Kurtz,
chopped his hand instead of the stump he was aiming a blow at, and,
in consequence, rendered himself unfit for work for many a day. During
his sickness, the whole care of the family devolved upon Kate; for
Peter's wife had died nearly two years before; so it was Kate who
tended the baby, dressed Johann, mended Wilhelm's small-clothes, and
attended to the wants of her father; for in those days a sick man
was more complaining than a child two years old.

Beside these acts of labor, she had to cook the meals, wash the dishes, sweep the house, run of errands,
chop the wood, make the fire, and many other little odd duties of the kind; so that, upon the whole,
her time was pretty well occupied.

There seemed a probability now, however, that one of these duties
would be dispensed with, namely, cooking the meals; not that there
was any indolence upon Catherine's part, but because the necessary
materials were not forthcoming.

Indeed, the extent of the larder at present consisted of half a bowl
of cold gravy, and about a quarter of a loaf of bread.

When Catherine, that cold morning, inspected the woeful emptiness of
the cupboard, she wrung her cold blue hands in despair; but, wring
her poor little hands ever so much, she could not squeeze good bread
and meat out of them; something must be done, and that immediately,
if she would save the children from starving.

At length she bethought herself that many rich people of Kaboutermannekensburg
were fond of burning pine-cones instead of rough logs, not only on account of the
bright, warm and crackling fire they produced, but also because of the
sweet resinous odor that they threw out, filling the house with a perfume
like that which arose from the censers in the cathedral.

It was woeful weather for Catherine to go hunting for pine-cones. The
snow lay a good foot deep over the glossy brown treasures, and
she herself was but thinly clad; yet the children must have bread.
Not having eaten any breakfast that morning, she slipped the remnant
of the loaf into the basket to serve as lunch, and then started to
face the wind toward the forest.

  

Bitterly cold blew the wind from the bleak north; tearing through
the moaning pine forest, that tossed and swayed before the tempest,
gnawing Catherine's nose and fingers, and snatching up, as it were,
handfuls of snow, and hurling them in a rage through the air.

Poor Catherine was nearly frozen, yet she struggled bravely
on through the drifting snow. Suddenly she caught sight of a quaint
little cottage that she had never seen before, much as she had traveled
this portion of the forest; but a more welcome sight still was the
gleam of a cheery fire within, that illuminated the frost-covered
panes with a ruddy glow.

Catherine, stumbling, sliding, struggling through the drifts, reached
the cottage at last, raised the latch, and entered a door-way so
low that even she, small as she was, had to stoop her head in passing.

"Shut the door!" shrieked a shrill voice, with startling abruptness;
and, for the first time, Kate perceived a very little old man seated
in a very large chair, and smoking a very long pipe.

A great beard reached below his dangling feet and touched the floor.

"May
I warm myself at your fire, kind gentleman?" said Kate, dropping
a courtesy.

The little old man grunted without looking at her.

"May I warm myself at your fire, sir?" repeated Kate, in a louder voice, supposing
he must be deaf.

"I heard you!" growled the old dwarf, with sudden rage. "You don't suppose
I'm deaf, do you? I said yes. You don't want to argue, do you?"

Kate murmured her thanks, feeling much astonished and very uncomfortable
at the old gentleman's conduct.

Thus they sat in silence for a long while, the little old man smoking
like a volcano. At length:

"Are you hungry?" said he, abruptly.

"Yes, sir," said Kate, bethinking herself of her bread.

"So am I!" said the old man, shortly, at the same time resuming his
smoking.

Removing his pipe after another pause, "I haven't had anything to eat for one hundred
years; I feel kind of empty," said he.

"I should think so," thought Kate to herself; then, after regarding
him in silence for a few minutes, she said, timidly, "I--I have a--a
piece of bread in my basket, sir, if you would like to have it?"

"Like to have it? You speak as though you had no sense. Of course, I should
like to have it! Why didn't you offer it to me sooner?"

Kate, in spite of her hunger, that had recommenced gnawing her, now that
she was warm, handed him the piece of bread.

The old
man seized it ravenously, opened his mouth to an astonishing extent,
bolted the large morsel as one does a pill, and then resumed his
smoking as though nothing of any note had occurred.

Kate
regarded him with silent astonishment.

"What are you doing
out in this kind of weather?" said the old man, suddenly.

"I came to gather
pine-cones to sell in the town," said Kate.

"You're a fool!" snapped the old man. "How do you suppose you can gather
pine-cones in twelve inches of snow, not to mention the drifts?"

"Nevertheless, sir, I have to get the children something to eat, and father----"

"Oh!
don't bother me with that story!" said the old man, impatiently.
"I know all about it.

Your father's
Peter Kurtz, isn't he?"

"Yes, sir."

"Umph!"
grunted the dwarf.

Then, after another pause,
"go to the closet yonder, and take one of the cups there, in return
for the bread you gave me."

"Indeed, sir," said Kate,
earnestly, "I do not care for any return for----"

"Do as I tell you!" bellowed the dwarf, in a fury.

Kate crossed the room, opened the cupboard, and--what a sight met her
eyes! All the dishes, bowls, cups and saucers were of pure gold.

"Take one of the cups?" said Kate,
in breathless doubt.

"That's what I said, wasn't it?" snarled the dwarf. "You are just like
all women, never contented with what you receive."

Catherine was far too wise to answer foolish abuse with useless excuse;
she silently took one of the beautiful cups and put it in her basket.

She was
so overcome that she did not think of any word of thanks until she had
reached the door; then, turning: "May heaven bless you, sir, for----"

"Shut the door!" screamed the dwarf.

Kate hurried home, but before reaching the town she wisely covered the
cup with snow, that no gossiping neighbor might catch sight of it;
for she well knew that gossip was like the snow-ball that the little
boys start rolling from the top of a hill--small in the commencement,
but sure to grow before it ends its course.

"Where have you been all this time?" whined Peter.

When Kate recounted her adventure, her father could hardly believe her,
and when she had carefully removed the snow from the cup, he could hardly
believe his eyes. He placed it upon the table, and then, sitting down
in front of it, he examined it with breathless astonishment and
delight.

The cup was of solid gold, heavy and massive; carved upon it in bold
relief was a group of figures representing a host of little elves
at a banquet.

So exquisitely were they engraved that
they appeared actually to move, and it seemed as though one could
almost hear their laughter and talk.

A glittering, carved golden snake, curled around the brim of
the cup, served as a handle; its eyes were two diamonds. After Peter Kurtz
had feasted his eyes upon this treasure for a long time, he arose
suddenly, and, without saying a word, wrapped up the cup in a napkin,
drew his cowl more closely around his face, and, taking his staff,
prepared to leave the house.

"Where are you going, father?" said
Kate.

"I am going," said Peter, "to take this cup to our master,
the Baron von Dunderhead; that will be far more to our advantage than
selling it to some petty goldsmith or other."

"Take care what you
do, father!" said Kate, quickly. "I foresee that danger will come
of it, if you fulfill your intention."

"Bah!" said Peter, and, without
deigning another word, he marched out of the house; for Peter, like
a great many men in those days, had a very poor opinion of the feminine
intellect, and a very good opinion of his own. So off he marched boldly
toward castle Dunderhead.

When Peter presented the golden cup to
the baron, with a low bow, that nobleman could not find sufficient
words to express his admiration. He sighed with rapture, and examined
the cup from every side with the utmost minuteness.

"Give this worthy
man," said he, "four bags of guilders; money is nothing to the acquisition
of such a treasure of beauty."

Here Peter secretly hugged himself,
and chuckled at his daughter's warning. Meanwhile, the baron examined
the cup with huge satisfaction. Suddenly turning to Peter, "Where
is the saucer?" said he.

"The saucer?" repeated Peter, blankly. "Please
you, my lord, it never had a saucer!"

"Never had a saucer?" repeated
the baron. "You don't mean to tell me that such a cup as that was
ever made without a saucer to go with it!"

"Nevertheless, my lord,
I have no saucer," said Peter, humbly.

"You are deceiving me," said
the baron, sternly. Then, fixing his eye upon poor Peter, "Where did
you get that cup?" said he, abruptly. "Me-thinks you are rather a
poor man to possess such a treasure."

"Oh, good my lord!" cried poor
Peter, "I will tell you the whole truth. An old man in the forest
gave it to my daughter Kate."

"Do you expect me to believe such a
story as that?" exclaimed the baron. "You stole it, you thief!" he
roared, at the same time seizing Peter by the collar. "Ho! guards!
Arrest this man, and throw him into the dungeon," cried he to his
attendants.

"Mercy! mercy, my lord!" cried poor Peter, falling on
his knees. But the guards dragged him off in spite of his cries, and
popped him into a dungeon, where he was left to meditate over his
folly in not heeding his daughter's advice.

II.--THE GOOSE THAT WAS
TO LAY THE GOLDEN EGG.

Catherine waited anxiously for her father's
return, but her fears told her all when night came and he came not.

After
she had put the children to bed, having given them each a piece of
bread, which she had borrowed from a kind neighbor, she threw a shawl
around her head and started off in the direction of Castle Dunderhead,
where her fears told her only too plainly her father was. The bars
of the dungeon windows came upon a level with the ground, like those
of a cellar.

"Father!" murmured Catherine.

"Oh, Kate!" was the response,
followed immediately by the sound of violent crying, and Catherine
knew her father was there. "Oh, Kate! if I--I had but l-listened to
you!" sobbed the poor fellow; for, now that the discovery was too
late to avail him, he felt perfectly sure of his daughter's superior
intelligence. Then, with much sobbing, he recounted all the particulars
of his interview with the baron. "Can't you do something to get your
poor old father out?" continued he.

Kate was thoughtful for a moment.
"I'll try, father," said she, at length; and, bidding him a hasty
adieu, she hurried off. She ran, without stopping, to where the little
cottage stood in the forest; but, as you have already probably guessed,
the old man was the Kaboutermanneken, his day's visit was over, and
he had descended once more into the obscurity of the earth; consequently
Catherine, much to her perplexity, could not discover the little cottage.
After vainly seeking for some time, she at length saw the hopelessness
of her task, and wended her way sorrowfully homeward. She lay awake
nearly all night, vainly cudgeling her brains for some plan by which
to deliver her father from his confinement. At length an idea occurred
to her, and, smiling to herself, she turned on her pillow and fell
asleep until the sun shining in her eyes awakened her. Then, arising,
she donned her best frock and neatest cap, and proceeded to the Castle
Dunderhead. She was directly presented to the baron.

"My lord!" said
she, falling upon her knees.

"Well, my pretty damsel," said he; for
Kate looked very sweet in her saucy cap.

"My lord," continued she,
and the tears rose to her eyes as she spoke; "you have my father in
custody."

"Ha!" exclaimed the baron, frowning,--"Peter Kurtz?"

"Yes,
my lord."

"Bring forth Peter Kurtz!" cried the baron to the guard,
and soon Peter made his appearance, crying like a good fellow. It came at once
into our minds, how on Sunday, three years before, the steamer "Brother Jonathan," in attempting
to do the same thing, struck a rock, and foundered, and nearly all on board were lost.

Crescent City is an isolated little settlement, a depot for supplies for miners working on
the rivers in Northern California. It has properly no harbor, but only a roadstead, filled
with the wildest-looking black rocks, of strange forms, standing far out from the shore, and
affords a very imperfect shelter for vessels if they are so fortunate as to get safely in.
The Coast Survey Report mentions it as "the most dangerous of the roadsteads usually resorted
to, filled with sunken rocks and reefs." It further says, that "no vessel should think of gaining
an anchorage there, without a pilot, or perfect knowledge of the hidden dangers. The rocks
are of peculiar character, standing isolated like bayonets, with their points just below the
surface, ready to pierce any unlucky craft that may encounter them." The "Dragon Rocks" lie
in the near vicinity, at the end of a long reef that makes out from Crescent City. All the
steamers that enter or depart from there must pass near them.

It is very remarkable, that, while the Atlantic coast abounds in excellent harbors, on the
Pacific side of the continent there is no good harbor where a vessel can find refuge in any
kind of weather between San Francisco Bay and San Diego to the south, and Port Angeles, on
the Straits of Fuca, to the north. It is fitly characterized by Wilkes as an "iron-bound coast."

We reached here Saturday night. Sunday morning, hearing a silver triangle played in the streets,
we looked out for tambourines and dancing-girls, but saw none, and were presently told it was
the call to church. We were quite tempted to go and hear what the service would be, but the
sound of the breakers on the bar enchained us to stop and listen to them.

  PORTLAND, ORE., October 20, 1868.

In coming up the river from Astoria, we had always in view the snow-white cone of St. Helen's,
one of the principal peaks of the Cascade Range. Nothing can be conceived more virginal than
this form of exquisite purity rising from the dark fir forests to the serene sky. Mount Baker's
symmetry is much marred by the sunken crater at the summit; Mount Rainier's outline is more
complicated: this is a pure, beautiful cone. It is so perfect a picture of heavenly calm, that
it is as hard to realize its being volcanic as it would be to imagine an outburst of passion
in a seraph. Frémont reports having seen columns of smoke ascending from it, and showers of
ashes are known to have fallen over the Dalles.

As we approached Portland, the sharp-pointed form of Mount Hood came prominently into view.
Portland would be only a commonplace city, the Willamette River being quite tame here, and
the shores low and unattractive; but this grand old mountain, and the remnant of forest about
it, give it an ancient, stately, and dignified look.

  OLYMPIA, October 30, 1868.

In crossing from the Columbia River to the Sound, we saw, along the Cowlitz Valley, marks of
the havoc and devastation caused by the floods of last winter. The wild mountain stream had
swept away many familiar landmarks since we were last there; in fact, had abandoned its bed,
and taken a new channel. It gave us a realizing sense of the fact that great changes are still
in process on our globe. Where we had quietly slumbered, is now the bed of the stream. We mourned
over the little place at Monticello, where for eight years a nice garden, with rows of trim
currant-bushes, had gladdened the eyes of travellers, and the neat inn, kept by a cheery old
Methodist minister, had given them hospitable welcome,--not a vestige of the place now remaining.
Civilization is so little advanced in that region, that few men would have the heart or the
means to set out a garden.

  VICTORIA, B.C., November 15, 1868.

We are to stay for several months in this place. We are delightfully situated. The house has
quite a Christmas look, from the holly and other bright berries that cluster round the windows.
The hall is picturesquely ornamented with deer's horns and weapons and Indian curiosities.
But the view is what we care most about. On our horizon we have the exquisite peaks of silver,
the summits of the Olympic Range, at the foot of which we lived in Port Angeles. We look across
the blue straits to them. Immediately in front is an oak grove, and on the other side a great
extent of dark, Indian-looking woods. There are nearer mountains, where we can see all the
beautiful changes of light and shade. Yesterday they were wrapped in haze, as in the Indian
summer, and every thing was soft and dreamy about them; to-day they stand out bold and clear,
with great wastes of snow, ravines, and landslides, and dark prominences, all distinctly defined.
When the setting sun lights up the summits, new fields of crystal and gold, and other more
distant mountains, appear.

It is very refreshing to get here, the island has such a rich green look after California.
It is quite rocky about us; but the rocks even are carpeted deep with moss, and the old gnarled
branches of the oaks have a coating of thick, bright velvet. It is now the middle of November;
and the young grass is springing up after the rain, and even where it does not grow there is
no bare earth, but brown oak-leaves and brakes, with soft warm colors, particularly when the
sun strikes across them. The skies, too, are like those at home, with the magnificent sunrise
and sunset that only clouds can give. The California sky is, much of the time, pure unchanging
blue.

When we first landed here, we were very much impressed by the appearance of the coast, it being
bold and rocky, like that of New England; while on the opposite side of the straits, and almost
everywhere on the Sound, are smooth, sandy shores, or high bluffs covered with trees. 'Others apart
sate on a hill retired,' probably as deeply engaged in the discussion of politics and news
as Milton's spirits in metaphysical disquisition. At length signals of the approach of the game
were descried and heard.

Distant shouts resounded from valley to valley, as the various parties
of Highlanders, climbing rocks, struggling through copses, wading
brooks, and traversing thickets, approached more and more near to
each other, and compelled the astonished deer, with the other wild
animals that fled before them, into a narrower circuit.

Every now and then the report of muskets was heard, repeated by a thousand
echoes. The baying of the dogs was soon added to the chorus, which
grew ever louder and more loud. At length the advanced parties of the
deer began to show themselves; and as the stragglers came bounding
down the pass by two or three at a time, the Chiefs showed their skill
by distinguishing the fattest deer, and their dexterity in bringing
them down with their guns.

Fergus exhibited remarkable address, and Edward was also so fortunate as to attract the notice and applause
of the sportsmen.

But now the main body of the deer appeared at the head of the glen, compelled into a very narrow compass,
and presenting such a formidable phalanx that their antlers appeared at a distance, over the ridge of the steep
pass, like a leafless grove. Their number was very great, and from
a desperate stand which they made, with the tallest of the red-deer stags
arranged in front, in a sort of battle-array, gazing on the group
which barred their passage down the glen, the more experienced sportsmen
began to augur danger.

The work of destruction, however, now commenced on all sides. Dogs and
hunters were at work, and muskets and fusees resounded from every
quarter.

The deer, driven to desperation, made at length a fearful charge right upon the spot where the
more distinguished sportsmen had taken their stand.

The
word was given in Gaelic to fling themselves upon their faces; but Waverley,
on whose English ears the signal was lost, had almost fallen a sacrifice
to his ignorance of the ancient language in which it was communicated.

Fergus, observing his danger, sprung up and pulled him with violence
to the ground, just as the whole herd broke down upon them.

The tide being absolutely irresistible, and wounds from a stag's horn highly dangerous, the activity
of the Chieftain may be considered, on this occasion, as having saved
his guest's life.

  He detained him with a firm grasp until the whole herd of deer had
fairly run over them.

Waverley then attempted to rise, but found that he had suffered several very severe contusions,
and, upon a further examination, discovered that he had sprained
his ankle violently.

[Footnote: The thrust from the tynes, or branches, of the stag's horns
was accounted far more dangerous than those of the boar's tusk:--

If
thou be hurt with horn of stag, it brings thee to thy bier, But barber's
hand shall boar's hurt heal, thereof have thou no fear.]

This checked
the mirth of the meeting, although the Highlanders, accustomed to
such incidents, and prepared for them, had suffered no harm themselves.

A wigwam was erected almost in an instant, where Edward was deposited on a couch of heather. The surgeon,
or he who assumed the office, appeared to unite the characters of
a leech and a conjuror.

He was an old smoke-dried Highlander, wearing a venerable grey beard, and having
for his sole garment a tartan frock, the skirts of which descended
to the knee, and, being undivided in front, made the vestment serve
at once for doublet and breeches.

[Footnote: This garb, which resembled the dress often put on children
in Scotland, called a polonie (i. e. polonaise), is a very ancient
modification of the Highland garb.

It was, in fact, the hauberk or shirt of mail, only composed of cloth instead
of rings of armour.] He observed great ceremony in approaching Edward; and
though our hero was writhing with pain, would not proceed to any
operation which might assuage it until he had perambulated his couch three
times, moving from east to west, according to the course of the sun.

This, which was called making
the deasil, [Footnote: Old Highlanders will still make the deasil around
those whom they wish well to. To go round a person in the opposite
direction, or withershins (German wider-shins), is unlucky, and a
sort of incantation.] both the leech and the assistants seemed to
consider as a matter of the last importance to the accomplishment
of a cure; and Waverley, whom pain rendered incapable of expostulation,
and who indeed saw no chance of its being attended to, submitted in
silence.

After this ceremony was duly performed, the old Esculapius let his patient's
blood with a cupping-glass with great dexterity, and proceeded, muttering
all the while to himself in Gaelic, to boil on the fire certain herbs,
with which he compounded an embrocation. He then fomented the parts
which had sustained injury, never failing to murmur prayers or spells,
which of the two Waverley could not distinguish, as his ear only
caught the words Gaspar-Melchior-Balthazar-max-prax-fax, and similar
gibberish.

  
The fomentation had a speedy effect in alleviating the pain and swelling,
which our hero imputed to the virtue of the herbs or the effect of the
chafing, but which was by the bystanders unanimously ascribed to the spells
with which the operation had been accompanied. Edward was given to understand
that not one of the ingredients had been gathered except during the full moon,
and that the herbalist had, while collecting them, uniformly recited a
charm, which in English ran thus:--

Hail to thee, them holy herb, That sprung on holy ground! All in the Mount
Olivet First wert thou found. Thou art boot for many a bruise, And healest
many a wound; In our Lady's blessed name, I take thee from the ground.

[Footnote:
This metrical spell, or something very like it, is preserved by Reginald
Scott in his work on Witchcraft.]

Edward observed with some surprise that even Fergus, notwithstanding
his knowledge and education, seemed to fall in with the superstitious
ideas of his countrymen, either because he deemed it impolitic to affect
scepticism on a matter of general belief, or more probably because, ike
most men who do not think deeply or accurately on such subjects,
he had in his mind a reserve of superstition which balanced the freedom
of his expressions and practice upon other occasions.

Waverley made no commentary, therefore, on the manner of the treatment, but rewarded the professor
of medicine with a liberality beyond the utmost conception of his wildest hopes. He uttered on the occasion so many incoherent
blessings in Gaelic and English that Mac-Ivor, rather scandalised at the excess of his acknowledgments,
cut them short by exclaiming, Ceud mile mhalloich ort! i.e. 'A hundred thousand curses on you!' and so
pushed the helper of men out of the cabin.

After Waverley was left alone, the exhaustion of pain and fatigue --for the whole day's exercise had been
severe--threw him into a profound, but yet a feverish sleep, which
he chiefly owed to an opiate draught administered by the old Highlander
from some decoction of herbs in his pharmacopoeia.

Early the next morning, the purpose of their meeting being over, and
their sports damped by the untoward accident, in which Fergus and
all his friends expressed the greatest sympathy, it became a question
how to dispose of the disabled sportsman.

This was settled by Mac-Ivor, who had a litter prepared, of 'birch and hazel-grey,'

[FOOTNOTE:

On the morrow they made their biers Of birch and hazel grey. Chevy Chase.]

which was borne by his people with such caution and dexterity as renders
it not improbable that they may have been the ancestors of some of those
sturdy Gael who have now the happiness to transport the belles of Edinburgh
in their sedan-chairs to ten routs in one evening. When Edward was elevated
upon their shoulders he could not help being gratified with the romantic
effect produced by the breaking up of this sylvan camp.

[Footnote: See Note 25.]

The various tribes assembled, each at the pibroch of their native clan, and each headed by their patriarchal
ruler. Some, who had already begun to retire, were seen winding up the hills, or descending the passes
which led to the scene of action, the sound of their bagpipes dying
upon the ear. Others made still a moving picture upon the narrow plain,
forming various changeful groups, their feathers and loose plaids
waving in the morning breeze, and their arms glittering in the rising
sun.

Most of the Chiefs came to take farewell of Waverley, and to express their
anxious hope they might again, and speedily, meet; but the care of Fergus
abridged the ceremony of taking leave. At length, his own men being
completely assembled and mustered, Mac-Ivor commenced his march, but
not towards the quarter from which they had come. He gave Edward
to understand that the greater part of his followers now on the field were
bound on a distant expedition, and that when he had deposited him in
the house of a gentleman, who he was sure would pay him every attention,
he himself should be under the necessity of accompanying them the
greater part of the way, but would lose no time in rejoining his friend.

Waverley

was rather surprised that Fergus had not mentioned this ulterior destination
when they set out upon the hunting-party; but his situation did not admit
of many interrogatories. The greater part of the clansmen went forward
under the guidance of old Ballenkeiroch and Evan Dhu Maccombich, apparently in
high spirits.

A few remained for the purpose of escorting the Chieftain, who walked
by the side of Edward's litter, and attended him with the most affectionate
assiduity.

About noon, after a journey which the nature of the conveyance, the
pain of his bruises, and the roughness of the way rendered inexpressibly
painful, Waverley was hospitably received into the house of a gentleman
related to Fergus, who had prepared for him every accommodation which
the simple habits of living then universal in the Highlands put in
his power.

In this person, an old man about seventy, Edward admired a relic of primitive
simplicity. He wore no dress but what his estate afforded; the cloth
was the fleece of his own sheep, woven by his own servants, and stained
into tartan by the dyes produced from the herbs and lichens of the
hills around him.

His linen was spun by his daughters and maidservants, from his own flax; nor did his table, though plentiful,
and varied with game and fish, offer an article but what was of native
produce.

Claiming himself no rights of clanship or vassalage, he was fortunate
in the alliance and protection of Vich Ian Vohr and other bold and
enterprising Chieftains, who protected him in the quiet unambitious
life he loved.

It is true, the youth born on his grounds were often enticed to leave
him for the service of his more active friends; but a few old servants
and tenants used to shake their grey locks when they heard their
master censured for want of spirit, and observed, 'When the wind is
still, the shower falls soft.' This good old man, whose charity and
hospitality were unbounded, would have received Waverley with kindness
had he been the meanest Saxon peasant, since his situation required
assistance.

But his attention to a friend and guest of Vich Ian Vohr was anxious and
unremitted. Other embrocations were applied to the injured limb, and new
spells were put in practice.

  
  

At length, after more solicitude than was perhaps for the advantage of his health, Fergus took farewell
of Edward for a few days, when, he said, he would return to Tomanrait, and hoped by that time Waverley
would be able to ride one of the Highland ponies of his landlord, and in that manner return
to Glennaquoich.

The next day, when his good old host appeared, Edward learned that his
friend had departed with the dawn, leaving none of his followers except
Callum Beg, the sort of foot-page who used to attend his person, and
who had now in charge to wait upon Waverley.

On asking his host if he knew where the Chieftain was gone, the old man looked
fixedly at him, with something mysterious and sad in the smile which was
his only reply. Waverley repeated his question, to which his host answered
in a proverb,--

What sent the messengers to hell, Was asking what they knew full well.

[Footnote: Corresponding to the Lowland saying, 'Mony ane speirs the
gate they ken fu' weel.']

He was about to proceed, but Callum Beg said, rather pertly, as Edward thought, that 'Ta Tighearnach (i.e.
the Chief) did not like ta Sassenagh duinhe-wassel to be pingled wi' mickle
speaking, as she was na tat weel.' From this Waverley concluded he should disoblige
his friend by inquiring of a stranger the object of a journey which he
himself had not communicated.

It is unnecessary to trace the progress of our hero's recovery. The
sixth morning had arrived, and he was able to walk about with a staff,
when Fergus returned with about a score of his men.

He seemed in the highest spirits, congratulated Waverley on his progress towards recovery, and
finding he was able to sit on horseback, proposed their immediate return
to Glennaquoich. Waverley joyfully acceded, for the form of its fair
mistress had lived in his dreams during all the time of his confinement.

Now
he has ridden o'er moor and moss, O'er hill and many a glen,

Fergus, all the while, with his myrmidons, striding stoutly by his
side, or diverging to get a shot at a roe or a heath-cock.

Waverley's bosom beat thick when they approached the old tower of Ian nan Chaistel, and could distinguish
the fair form of its mistress advancing to meet them.

Fergus began immediately, with his usual high spirits, to exclaim, 'Open
your gates, incomparable princess, to the wounded Moor Abindarez, whom Rodrigo
de Narvez, constable of Antiquera, conveys to your castle; or open
them, if you like it better, to the renowned Marquis of Mantua, the
sad attendant of his half-slain friend Baldovinos of the Mountain.

Ah, long rest
to thy soul, Cervantes! without quoting thy remnants, how should I frame my language to befit
romantic ears!'

Flora now advanced, and welcoming Waverley with much kindness, expressed
her regret for his accident, of which she had already heard particulars,
and her surprise that her brother should not have taken better care
to put a stranger on his guard against the perils of the sport in
which he engaged him.

Edward easily exculpated the Chieftain, who, indeed, at his own personal
risk, had probably saved his life.

This greeting over, Fergus said three or four words to his sister in
Gaelic. The tears instantly sprung to her eyes, but they seemed to be tears
of devotion and joy, for she looked up to heaven and folded her hands
as in a solemn expression of prayer or gratitude.

After the pause of a minute, she presented to Edward some letters which had been forwarded from Tully-Veolan
during his absence, and at the same time delivered some to her brother.

To the latter she likewise gave three or four numbers of the Caledonian
Mercury, the only newspaper which was then published to the north of the
Tweed.

Both gentlemen retired to examine their despatches, and Edward speedily
found that those which he had received contained matters of very deep
interest.

CHAPTER XXV

NEWS FROM ENGLAND

The letters which Waverley had hitherto received from his relations
in England were not such as required any particular notice in this narrative.
His father usually wrote to him with the pompous affectation of one who
was too much oppressed by public affairs to find leisure to attend
to those of his own family. Now and then he mentioned persons of
rank in Scotland to whom he wished his son should pay some attention;
but Waverley, hitherto occupied by the amusements which he had found
at Tully-Veolan and Glennaquoich, dispensed with paying any attention
to hints so coldly thrown out, especially as distance, shortness of
leave of absence, and so forth furnished a ready apology.

But latterly the burden of Mr. Richard Waverley's paternal epistles
consisted in certain mysterious hints of greatness and influence which
he was speedily to attain, and which would ensure his son's obtaining
the most rapid promotion, should he remain in the military service. Sir
Everard's letters were of a different tenor.

They were short; for the good Baronet was none of your illimitable
correspondents, whose manuscript overflows the folds of their large
post paper, and leaves no room for the seal; but they were kind and
affectionate, and seldom concluded without some allusion to our hero's
stud, some question about the state of his purse, and a special inquiry
after such of his recruits as had preceded him from Waverley-Honour.

Aunt Rachel charged him
to remember his principles of religion, to take care of his health,
to beware of Scotch mists, which, she had heard, would wet an Englishman
through and through, never to go out at night without his great- coat,
and, above all, to wear flannel next to his skin.

Mr. Pembroke only wrote to our hero one letter, but it was of the bulk
of six epistles of these degenerate days, containing, in the moderate
compass of ten folio pages, closely written, a precis of a supplementary
quarto manuscript of addenda, delenda, et corrigenda in reference to the
two tracts with which he had presented Waverley.

This he considered as a mere sop in the pan to stay the appetite of Edward's
curiosity until he should find an opportunity of sending down the volume itself,
which was much too heavy for the post, and which he proposed to accompany
with certain interesting pamphlets, lately published by his friend
in Little Britain, with whom he had kept up a sort of literary correspondence,
in virtue of which the library shelves of Waverley-Honour were loaded
with much trash, and a good round bill, seldom summed in fewer than
three figures, was yearly transmitted, in which Sir Everard Waverley
of Waverley-Honour, Bart., was marked Dr. to Jonathan Grubbet, bookseller
and stationer, Little Britain.

Such had hitherto been the style of the letters which Edward had received from England; but the
packet delivered to him at Glennaquoich was of a different and more interesting complexion. It
would be impossible for the reader, even were I to insert the letters at full length, to comprehend the
real cause of their being written, without a glance into the interior of the British
cabinet at the period in question.

The ministers of the day happened (no very singular event) to be divided
into two parties; the weakest of which, making up by assiduity of intrigue
their inferiority in real consequence, had of late acquired some new proselytes,
and with them the hope of superseding their rivals in the favour of
their sovereign, and overpowering them in the House of Commons. Amongst others,
they had thought it worth while to practise upon Richard Waverley. This
honest gentleman, by a grave mysterious demeanour, an attention to
the etiquette of business rather more than to its essence, a facility
in making long dull speeches, consisting of truisms and commonplaces,
hashed up with a technical jargon of office, which prevented the
inanity of his orations from being discovered, had acquired a certain
name and credit in public life, and even established, with many, the
character of a profound politician; none of your shining orators,
indeed, whose talents evaporate in tropes of rhetoric and flashes
of wit, but one possessed of steady parts for business, which would
wear well, as the ladies say in choosing their silks, and ought in
all reason to be good for common and every-day use, since they were
confessedly formed of no holiday texture.

This faith had become so general that the insurgent party in the cabinet,
of which we have made mention, after sounding Mr. Richard Waverley,
were so satisfied with his sentiments and abilities as to propose that,
in case of a certain revolution in the ministry, he should take an ostensible
place in the new order of things, not indeed of the very first rank,
but greatly higher, in point both of emolument and influence, than
that which he now enjoyed.

There was
no resisting so tempting a proposal, notwithstanding that the Great
Man under whose patronage he had enlisted, and by whose banner he
had hitherto stood firm, was the principal object of the proposed
attack by the new allies.

  

Unfortunately this fair scheme of ambition was blighted in the very
bud by a premature movement. All the official gentlemen concerned in
it who hesitated to take the part of a voluntary resignation were
informed that the king had no further occasion for their services;
and in Richard Waverley's case, which the minister considered as aggravated
by ingratitude, dismissal was accompanied by something like personal
contempt and contumely.

The public, and even the party of whom he shared the fall, sympathised
little in the disappointment of this selfish and interested statesman;
and he retired to the country under the comfortable reflection that he
had lost, at the same time, character, credit, and,--what he at least
equally deplored, --emolument.

Richard Waverley's letter to his son upon this occasion was a masterpiece of its kind. Aristides himself
could not have made out a harder case. An unjust monarch and an ungrateful country were the burden
of each rounded paragraph. He spoke of long services and unrequited
sacrifices; though the former had been overpaid by his salary, and
nobody could guess in what the latter consisted, unless it were in
his deserting, not from conviction, but for the lucre of gain, the
Tory principles of his family.

In the conclusion, his resentment was wrought to such an excess by the force
of his own oratory, that he could not repress some threats of vengeance,
however vague and impotent, and finally acquainted his son with his
pleasure that he should testify his sense of the ill-treatment he
had sustained by throwing up his commission as soon as the letter
reached him.

  

This, he said, was also his uncle's desire, as he would himself intimate
in due course.

Accordingly, the next letter which Edward opened was from Sir Everard.
His brother's disgrace seemed to have removed from his well-natured
bosom all recollection of their differences, and, remote as he was from
every means of learning that Richard's disgrace was in reality only
the just as well as natural consequence of his own unsuccessful intrigues,
the good but credulous Baronet at once set it down as a new and enormous
instance of the injustice of the existing government.

It was true, he said, and he must not disguise it even from Edward, that his father could not have sustained
such an insult as was now, for the first time, offered to one of his house, unless he had subjected
himself to it by accepting of an employment under the present system. Sir
Everard had no doubt that he now both saw and felt the magnitude
of this error, and it should be his (Sir Everard's) business to take
care that the cause of his regret should not extend itself to pecuniary
consequences.

It was enough for a Waverley to have sustained the public disgrace; the
patrimonial injury could easily be obviated by the head of their family.
But it was both the opinion of Mr. Richard Waverley and his own that
Edward, the representative of the family of Waverley-Honour, should
not remain in a situation which subjected him also to such treatment
as that with which his father had been stigmatised.

He requested his nephew therefore to take the fittest, and at the
same time the most speedy, opportunity of transmitting his resignation
to the War Office, and hinted, moreover, that little ceremony was
necessary where so little had been used to his father.

He sent multitudinous greetings to the Baron of Bradwardine. He might have stepped out of some Ninevite
or Egyptian sculpture. He is like the little figures in the processions on the tombs, and his
face is perfectly grave and unchanging all the time. I feel about him, as I do about some of
the Indians,--as if he had not only his own age, but the age of his race, about him.

There never could be any thing more inappropriate than that he should be named "Wing," for
no creature could be farther from any thing light or airy. One reason, I think, why he seems
so different from any of his countrymen that we have seen, is because he has never lived in
a city, but only in a small village, which he says has no name that we should understand.

He works in the slowest possible way, but most faithfully and incessantly, and never shows
the slightest desire for any recreation or rest. Even the anticipation of the great national
Chinese feast, which is to be celebrated next month, and which occurs only once in a thousand
years, has failed to arouse any enthusiasm in him, and he is apparently quite indifferent to it.

Our goat has taken a great dislike to him,--I think just because he is so different from herself.
She is always making thrusts at him with her horns, and trying to butt him over. Select round tomatoes of equal
size; peel and scoop out the seeds from the stem end.

Place the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill with
celery that has been chopped fine and mixed with mayonnaise. Arrange the filled
tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or plate. Garnish the dish further
by placing the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley on top of each
tomato. Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers.

Be generous with the filling. Use plenty of the mayonnaise and celery
and fill tomatoes to the top.

  

SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs
(well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant) one
teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted).

Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly.

Set in kettle of boiling water and stir till it thickens, (about four
minutes), when ready to use it add two tablespoons cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes, one
small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one tablespoon
of vinegar, pepper and salt.

  

Shred all the salad finely.

Mix well with the dressing and put a little on half the bread and
butter.

Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly.

  SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard,
one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper.

One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup
of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoon
of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar and cayenne,
and four eggs.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers.

Garnish dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on the
eggs well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly,
and stir all the time.

Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when cold add the mustard.--Prepared
mustard is made as follows: two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt,
enough boiling water to mix. Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also
good for chicken. Put the eggs in boiling water.

PRESERVING EGGS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

(Which keeps them from June to June.)

  

Half a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of water added by degrees,
two and one half gallons the first day, the rest next, then add one
half gallon coarse salt, stir two or three times a day for three
days, after this drop in four eggs gently.

To test the strength of the lime-water drop in an egg that you know
to be fresh, and if it floats the lime is too strong, add another
gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.

CURÉE EGGS.

MISS MITCHELL.

  

Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn
butter not too thick, flavor with curée powder.

Place your eggs on a side dish, pour your curée round and finish with parsley: makes a pretty lunch
dish.

POACHED EGGS.

Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste.

After poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely
chopped parsley over them.

Garnish the dish with parsley.

ANCHOVY EGGS.

MADAME J. T.

Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes.

Let boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks and leave the whites in cold water not to discolor.
Pound three anchovies in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small
pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne, one half teaspoon lemon juice
and the yolks of the eggs.

When pounded smooth put back into the eggs. Sardines can be used instead
of the anchovies.

STUFFED EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons
minced ham.

Boil the eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells, cut lengthwise,
take out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter melted,
the minced ham and the parsley.

Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs.

Put the two halves together.

  

Serve on shallow dish with the following white sauce: one tablespoon
each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon pepper.
Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper
and salt.

BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk,
and a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls flour in
a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and pepper
to taste.

Bake twenty minutes.

CHEESE OMELET.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three
tablespoons of fresh cream.

OMELET.

MISS M'GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper
and salt.

Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt, and
chopped parsley and the flour dissolved in a little milk, then add the
whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for three
minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch of
salt: beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add
to the above, turn into a frying pan, until the mixture sets and then
put in the oven until a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES.

CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful of flour, one
half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper and butter the
size of an egg. Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin. Cut
in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven.

CHEESE SCALLOP.

MISS FRASER.

Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat
the yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoon of butter, and half a pound
of grated cheese. Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake
a delicate brown.

Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top
and return to the oven for a few minutes.

THE CHAFING DISH.

A Relish and a Savory.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS GRACE M'MILLAN.

Allow for each person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese,
one half teaspoonful of butter, one saltspoon of salt, and a few
grains of cayenne.

Cook like custard until smooth.

  
Spread on toast and serve at once.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best American cheese, (Canadian will do), the milder
the better, as melting brings out strength. To make five rarebits take
one pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan; add ale (old is best)
enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine glassful
to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted. Have ready a slice of toast
for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice on each plate, and pour cheese
enough over each piece to cover it. Serve at once.

GOLDEN BUCK

A "Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put
carefully on top of rarebit.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard boiled),
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons
of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks of
the eggs with a silver spoon and gradually add half the cream. Place the butter
in a granite ware saucepan, add the flour, let it cook slowly for one minute and then
pour in the balance of the cream and stir until the liquid thickens. Add
the first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of the
eggs sliced, season with cayenne pepper, and salt, add the wine and
serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth,
add one cup of cream, let it heat through, then add one can of lobster.
Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine, if
desired; serve at once on squares of toast. Canned chicken or salmon
can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of horse
radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top. Serve in small tumblers
on a plate with pounded ice around them and with oyster biscuits.

CRUSTINE.

MRS.
A. COOK.

Boil the liver of two chickens, (or turkey will do), pound them to
a paste with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of
anchovy and a little cayenne.

Serve on hot toast. Small anchovies whole, laid on top are an improvement.

PIES.

"Who
dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."--LONGFELLOW.

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good rim
on the side and put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill
up with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of sugar
beaten together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little
salt and add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice of
two lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on the stove to boil
and add at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir smooth, then add two
tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water, and one
tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two-thirds of a cup of
water for ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one cup
sugar, the juice of a lemon and butter half the size of an egg, let
boil a few minutes.

Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch and yolk of one egg in half cup milk
stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick. Beat whites of
two eggs into stiff froth for frosting.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. STRANG.

Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls
white sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate the rind of
one, stir together the yolks of three eggs and white of one with the sugar,
butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup of sweet cream or milk,
beat all for a minute or two; have ready a plate lined with paste,
into which pour the mixture which will be sufficient for two pies
of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done. Meanwhile beat the remaining
whites to a stiff froth and stir in four spoonfuls of white sugar. Take
the pies from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each and
return them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown.

Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly
and cause the pie to fall when taken out.

PASTRY.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking powder,
one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

MOCK CHERRY PIE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one
half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful
corn-starch, two-thirds cup sugar, a little salt.

This makes one pie.

MINCE MEAT.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one
pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants, two nutmegs, a
large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt, one half pound
of candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of
pie plant, bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon
sugar over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE.

One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons
vinegar, one tablespoon cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one cup
sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.

SOUR CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar, scant
tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar, and
flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two crusts.

PUMPKIN

PIE.

MISS BEEMER.

PASTE.

PUDDINGS.

"The proof of the pudding lies in the eating."

ALMOND PUDDING

MRS. STOCKING.

One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar,
one heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk,
sugar, and cornstarch in double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when
boiling; pour into pudding dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and
brown in oven, to be served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the following batter
on top: one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar and butter, two tablespoonfuls
each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, bake forty
five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch
wet with cold water, one cup of white sugar and one third of a cup
of butter. Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water to make
a thick custard; stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs, bring
to a boil. Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the custard over them.
Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three eggs
well beaten with sugar. To be eaten cold.

BREAD PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD
LAURIE.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread,
one layer of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter.
Continue until bowl is full, put a plate on top and steam for at least
two hours, more will do no harm. Turn out a few minutes before wanted
to let the juice penetrate the bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE
PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar
and a tablespoon of butter, add two eggs, and after beating the mixture
until light, add a cupful of milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted
flour and three teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve
into the mixture already made, beat quickly and pour the batter into
one large pudding dish or two small ones. Sprinkle with sugar, bake
in a moderate oven for forty minutes or thirty if there be two. Serve
hot with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.--Beat two eggs
very light, and add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter,
one small tablespoon of cornstarch, beat all together, then add one
cup of boiling water, cook five minutes, boiling all the while. Cook
a little longer if set in a basin of hot water, take from the fire,
and add juice of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

One quart of milk scalded,
two eggs well beaten, add gradually one cup sugar. With the eggs and
sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping tablespoons
grated chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir into the milk until
a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE
PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread
crumbs, one tea cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of
chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Let the milk come
to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when almost cool, beat the yolks
of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the bread and milk. Bake
one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the whites of three eggs
and put meringues.

CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee
cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over a slow fire and
burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of milk in a saucepan
and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil, but do not stir
it in case the milk should crack. Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch
with a little cold milk, and when the milk and sugar boil stir the
starch in. Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream.

CARAMEL
PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

One pint of milk, one pound of brown
sugar, one coffee cup of chopped walnuts, two heaping tablespoons
of cornstarch, pinch of salt. Put the milk in a double boiler, when
boiling put in cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk; let it
cook a few minutes, put in the sugar which has been previously burnt
a little, then add the nuts, stir a few minutes, flavor with vanilla,
put into a mould, and eat with whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS
LAMPSON.

Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk,
one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of two eggs and whites of four,
one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little
nutmeg. Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs. When nearly
cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut. Bake
three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold, with
white sugar sifted over it.

DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE.

MRS.
STOCKING.

FRIED CREAM.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Everyone should
try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream could
be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish for
a dinner course or for lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it
can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs. The moment the egg touches
the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding which softens to a
creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients, one pint of milk, five
ounces of sugar (little more than half a cupful,) butter the size
of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn
starch, and one tablespoonful of flour, (a generous half cupful altogether),
stick of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla.
Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil,
stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the
fire for fully two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take
it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return
it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove
the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered
platter until one third of an inch high. When cold and stiff cut the
pudding into parallelograms, about three inches long and two inches
wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker crumbs then in
eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened) then again in cracker-crumbs.
Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire basket should be used if convenient)
and when of fine color, take them out and place them in the oven for
four or five minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pulverized
sugar and serve immediately.

FEATHER PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One
tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one
cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour,
one and one half teaspoons flavoring. Steam one hour. Eat with sauce.

FIG
PUDDING.

MRS. THOM.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine,
two cups bread-crumbs, one cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one
egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three
hours.

GELATINE PUDDING (Pink.)

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce
pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove where it
will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four eggs, beaten with
four tablespoons sugar, stir well, let it just come to the boil, then
add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar and a dessert
spoon vanilla. Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and
garnish with whipped cream. This is a very pretty dish.

GRAHAM PUDDING.
 I was surprised
at the delicacy of feeling shown in regard to his desire to remain unknown, rude curiosity
concerning any thing peculiar being everywhere so common.

  MAY 20, 1874.

This afternoon we went out a little farther than usual in our boat, and saw a herd of whales
in the distance,--great free creatures, puffing and snorting, spouting and frolicking, together.
The boatman said that a flap from one of their tails would send our boat clean out of the water,
and turned hastily about, hallooing in the wildest way, to keep them off.

On our way back we passed some deserted buildings on a sandy point. We inquired about them,
and were told that they were the commencement of a city, originally called "New York;" but,
having disappointed its founders, the Indian name of Alki (By and By) was given to it in derision.

We saw in the woods near here some magnificent rhododendrons, ten or twelve feet tall, covered
with clusters of rose-colored flowers.

One of the boatmen has a pet seal that we sometimes take out in the boat with us. We put him
occasionally into the water, feeling that he must be longing to go; but he always stays near
the boat, and comes back if we whistle to him, and seems quite companionable. Who would have
believed that one of these cold sea creatures could ever have been enticed into such intimacy?
Our only idea of them, before this experience, had been of a little dark head here and there
in the distance, in the midst of great wastes of water, where, as Lowell says, they--

          "Solemnly lift their faces gray,
           Making it yet more lonely."

One of the captains we sailed with told us that he had at one time a gray eagle he had tamed
when young, that often took coasting-voyages with him, leaving the vessel occasionally, and
returning to it, even when it had sailed many miles; never, by mistake, alighting on another
craft instead of his. Sometimes, when out on a voyage to San Francisco, it would leave the
vessel, and return to his house on Port Discovery Bay.

  OCTOBER 15, 1874.

As we were passing along near the shore to-day, in our boat, we saw an Indian woman sitting
alone on the beach, moaning, and dipping her hands continually in the water. Her canoe was
drawn up beside her. We stopped, and asked her if any one was dead. She pointed to a square
box[2] in the canoe, and said, "mika tenas" (my child). She said, afterwards, that she was
as tall as I, and "hyas closhe" (so good)!

As the poor Indian mother looked round at the waves and the sky to comfort her, I thought,
what is there, after all, that civilization can offer, beyond what is given by Nature alone,
to every one in deepest need?

Yeomans, our old Port Angeles friend, called on us to-day. Every year since we left there,
he has included us in his annual visit to the Seattle tribes. Each time we see him I think
must be the last, he looks so very old; but every autumn brings him back, apparently unchanged.
He seems to alter as slowly as the old firs about him. I am surprised always at his light tread;
he bears so little weight on his feet, but glides along as if he were still in the woods, and
would not have a leaf rustle.

  FOOTNOTES:

[2] The crouching position, the favorite one of the Indians in life, is preserved by them in
the disposition of their dead.

  SAN FRANCISCO, March 20, 1875. 

That duty is discharged; another duty supervenes, which is, to take
care that my vote is counted and allowed its due place in the summary
of the votes.

Otherwise the voting performance becomes ridiculous, and the voter
deserves to be laughed at for his pains. His duty--to cast his vote
according to his conscience--was clear; it is no less his duty to
make the vote felt, along with other like votes, according to the
laws.

The whole duty of a citizen is not ended when his vote is delivered; there remains
the obligation to watch it until it is duly weighed, in adjusting the preponderance
of the general choice.

Whatever may be the ultimate result of the count, whether his candidate will have lost or won, is
of no importance compared with the maintenance of justice and the supremacy of law over the preferences
and passions of men.

It concerns the honor of the nation that fraud shall not prevail or
have a chance of prevailing.

If
a fraudulent count is possible, it is of little consequence how my vote or
the votes of others be cast; for the supreme will is not that of the
honest voter, but of the dishonest counter; and, when fraud succeeds,
or is commonly thought to have succeeded, the public conscience, shocked
at first, becomes weakened by acquiescence; and vice, found to be
profitable, soon comes to be triumphant.

It is of immeasurable importance, therefore, that we should not only
compose the differences that, unfortunately, have arisen, but compose
them upon a basis right in itself and appearing to be right also.

WHO SHOULD COUNT THE VOTES?

This is the first question. What is meant by counting? In one sense, it is only enumeration, an arithmetical
operation, which in the present instance consists of addition and subtraction. In another sense it involves
segregation, separation of the false from the true. If a hundred coins
are thrown upon a banker's counter, and his clerk is told to count
the good ones, he has both to select and to enumerate. He takes
such as he finds sufficient in metal and weight, and rejects the
light and counterfeit.

So when the Constitution ordains that "the votes shall then be counted," it means that the true ones
shall be counted, which involves the separation of the true from the false, if there be present
both false and true. What would one take to be the meaning of these words, reading them for the first
time?

It is, that somebody besides the President of the Senate is to count, because, if he was to be the
counting officer, the language would naturally have been that the President of
the Senate shall open all the certificates and count the votes. There
must have been a reason for this change of phraseology. It should seem
to follow, from these words alone, that, whoever is to count, it is not the
President of the Senate. It should seem also to follow, that the counting
is to be done, not in the presence of Senators and Representatives as
individuals, but in the presence of the two Houses as organized bodies.

If their attendance as spectators merely was intended, the expression would naturally have been,
in the presence of the Senators and Representatives or so many of them as may choose to attend.
The presence of the Senate and House means their presence as the
two Houses of Congress, with a quorum of each, in the plenitude of
their power, as the coördinate branches of the legislative department
of the Government.

And inasmuch as no authorities are required to be present other than the President of the Senate and
the two Houses, if the former is not to count the votes, the two
Houses must.

The meaning which is thus supposed to be the natural one has been sanctioned
by the legislative and executive departments of the Government, and
established by a usage, virtually unbroken, from the foundation of
the Government to the present year.

The exhaustive publication on the Presidential Counts, just made by the Messrs. Appleton, leaves little to be
said on this head.

The sole exception suggested, in respect to the usage, is the resolution
of 1789, but that is not really an exception.

We have not the text of the resolution. We know, however, that there
was nothing to be done but adding a few figures. There was no dispute
about a single vote, as all the world knew.

But
taking the resolution to have been what the references to it in the proceedings of the two Houses
would imply, it meant only that a President should be chosen for
that occasion only.

The purpose was not to define the functions of any officer or body, but to go through the ceremony
of announcing what was already known, and to set the government going.

No decisions between existing parties were to be made; no selection of true votes
from false votes, but only an addition of numbers. Individual members
of Congress have undoubtedly in a few instances expressed different
views, but these members have been few, and they have always been
in a hopeless minority. I knew that he was once on a vessel that turned bottom upward in the Straits,
and he was left on the overturned hull for three days, in a snow-storm, before help came to
him. I spoke to him, and he did not give me much of an answer; but, a little while after, he
came to me, and said, "Are you able to go to the forward part of the ship with me? I should
like to have you, if you can." So he helped me along to the bow, where it seemed almost too
frightful to go, and said, "Kneel down;" and knelt down by me, and said, "Look under the ship."
It was one of the most beautiful sights I ever saw,--such a height of foam, and rainbows over
it. The dark water beside it seemed to be full of little, sharp, shining needles. I suppose
it was moving so quickly that made the elongated drops appear so. Then he took me to the other
side, that was in shadow; and there the water was whirled into the most beautiful shapes, standing
out distinct from each other, from the swiftness of the motion, that held them poised, like
exquisite combinations of snowflakes, only more airy. 

Where's the Note that I gave you, says she? Which he giving her, she took and tore it, and then burn'd
it, Then taking the Glass, what's your Name, Waterman, said she? An't please you, Madam, my
Name's John: Well, then honest John here's to ye, says she; and drank off her Glass, and made John
fill a Brimmer and drink it off. And then John offering to go, she said, No, John, you shan't go yet,
I have something to eat, and you shall stay and eat with me: Don't
be uneasie John, for I'll pay you well for your time.

Presently up comes the Drawer and brings a Lobster and a Piece of Sturgeon,
with him; then bidding the Drawer bring a Quart of Canary up, she
ask'd John whether he lov'd Lobster and Sturgeon?

Yes, very well, Madam, reply'd John, but they are too good for my common Eating. After the other Quart
of Canary was brought up, and the Drawer gone down, she bid John come nearer and sit down; and
at last having both eat and drank Plentifully, she pull'd John close to her, and told him he look'd
like a clever well-made Fellow, and ask'd him, if he did'nt think
himself capable of doing a Ladies Business? which put John so much
out of Countenance he did'nt know what to say to her: Upon which,
first Embracing the Dull Fool in her Arms, Come, says she, let's see
how well you're furnish'd: And then putting her Hand into his Breeches,
John began to think she was in Earnest, and made as bold with her;
giving her what she wanted; and then calling for another Quart of
Wine, and having drank and repeated their Amorous Embraces two or
three times, she gave John a Guinea; and told him she lik'd him so
well, that she would go by Water with him that day Sennight; and charg'd
him to meet her then at five a Clock, at Paul's Wharf; and she wou'd
then give him such another Treat.

Which John promis'd her to do, and so went away very well Satisfied. The two Gentlemen who (unseen
of her) had seen and heard all those Passages; were resolv'd to make
a further Discovery of the Gentlewoman and so dogg'd her home to her
own House, which happen'd to be at a Woollen-Drapers in St. Paul's
Church-Yard.

Having thus seen her at her own House they left her, and went to
their own Lodgings.

  

The next Morning they went into Paul's Church-Yard to make the Lady
a visit, but past many times to & fro before the Door, but cou'd'nt
get a sight of her.

In the Afternoon they came again, and having waited up and down about an hour, they at last
saw her in the Shop, and knew her to be the same Person: Whereupon
going into the Shop they ask'd her to see some of the best Scarlet-Cloth,
and whilst the other Gentleman was busie in choosing the Cloth, my
Friend took an opportunity to tell the Lady what a Passion he had
for her, and how ready he wou'd be to serve her with the greatest
hazard, and how he hop'd to be made happy with the enjoyment of her
last Favours; but she seeming to be mightily affronted at his Discourse,
told him, That if he did'nt leave off prating at that rate to her,
she would call to her Man to Kick him out of the Shop: Which disdainful
Carriage did so much exasperate him, that he replyed with some heat,
Why Madam, do you think I cann't do your Business as well as John
did, at the Three-Cranes Tavern in Thame-street, last Night?

These words made her change as Pale as Death: Sir, said she, As you are a Gentleman, I hope
you won't expose me: And I'll oblige you in what'e'er you ask me.--Chuse your Cloth, says she, and I'll
come down to you presently.

And
then going up Stairs she return'd again in two minutes, and put twenty Guineas into his hands, to
pay for the Cloth, appointing to meet 'em at the old Tavern an hour after; which she did accordingly,
gratifying both the Gentlemen with the same Favours she had bestow'd
the Night before upon John the Waterman, whose Nose these Gentlemen
had put out of joint.--Judge you now, Madam, what a case this Gentlewoman
had been in, had she fallen into other hands.

But all such accidents are avoided by those that make use of such
a House as mine. It is a depressing sight, certainly, to see so many feeble, consumptive-looking
people about, as we did there. Where we lived I think it was also malarious, from the estero
that winds like a snake about the lowlands near the bay. The favorite part of the city is near
the foot-hills. It is probably more healthful there, but we cannot live without seeing at least
one little silver line of the sea. So we took up our abode in the midst of the Spanish population,
near the water. 

The confederate in New York in whom he had trusted had only made him a dupe. Blindly following out his agreement,
he found himself saddled with a load of railroad-shares, useless for any present purpose, and all
his convertible property gone. The consciousness that he--the man of all others who prided himself upon
his sagacity--had been so easily overreached was quite as humiliating
as the idea of ruin itself. He remembered Kerbstone's appeals, also,
and now cursed his own stupidity in refusing to aid him.

There he had overreached himself; it was his own stocks which he had thrown down to the "bears."
And now, heaviest stroke of all, Fletcher, his intrepid and chivalrous agent, who had stepped into the
breach for him, had paid for his indiscretion with his life. The thought gave him a pang he had never
felt, not even when he followed his wife to the grave.

Homeward he went, but slowly and almost without volition. He recognized no acquaintances that he met,
but walked on abstractedly, fixing his eyes on vacancy with a look as mournful as his iron features
could wear. In his ears still rang those thrilling cries. His hand, that had groped over that
motionless heart, still felt a creeping chill; it would not warm. And constantly an accusing
voice asked, "Why didn't you come down?"--and conscience repeated the question in tones like
those of a judge arraigning a criminal. He reached his house and gave orders that no one should
be admitted. In his room he passed the day alone, drifting on an ocean of remorse, full of vague purposes
of repentance and restitution. Dinner passed unheeded, and still he paced the silent chamber. With the approach
of evening his terrors increased; he rang for a servant and had the gas-burners lighted. Still,
in all the blaze, shapes would haunt him; they crouched at the foot of his
bed; they lurked behind his wardrobe-door. He dared not look over his
shoulder, but forced himself to stand up and face what he so dreaded
to see.

He rang again and bade the servant bring a screw-driver and take down the coat-hooks from the wardrobe;
the garments hanging there seemed to be men struggling in the agonies of asphyxia. The slender thread
of sound from the gas-burners seemed to be changed to low, mournful cries, as of a woman over the
dead. He turned the gas down a little; then the shadows of the cannel-coal fire danced like
spectres on the ceiling. He jumped up and raised the lights again; again the low, dismal monotone
sang in his ears. He stopped them with his fingers; again the persistent voice asked, "Why didn't
you come down?"

Flakes fell off the coal in the grate in shapes like coffins; the flames
seemed to dart at him with their fiery tongues. We found them with bare floors; a great bunch of pampas grass, and a guitar
hanging against the wall, in true Spanish fashion; the room being otherwise mostly empty.

We had on one side the dark Santa Ynez Mountains, and on the other the sea. The mountains are
not very high but bold in their outlines; and the number of crags and ravines gives them a
beautiful play of light and shadow. Very early one morning I saw a great gray eagle fly overhead,
back to his home in their dark recesses. Some of the slopes are covered with grape-vines, and
some with olive-trees. Far up in the hollows can be seen the little white houses of the people
who keep the bee-ranches. They live up so high because the flowers last longer there. The mountains
form a semicircle on one side of the town; on the other is the beach. 17.

But it was not objections brought by fellow-Christians only that Eulogius
took upon himself to answer, but also the taunts and scoffs of the
Moslems. "Why," said they, "if your God is the true God, does He not
strike terror into the executioners of his saints by some great prodigy?
and why do not the martyrs themselves flash forth into miracles while
the crowd is round them?

You rush upon your own destruction, and yet you work no wonders that
might induce us to change our opinion of your creed, thereby doing
your own side no good, and ours no harm."[1]

Yet the constancy of
the martyrs affected the Moslems more than they cared to confess,
as we may infer from the taunts levelled at the Christians, when,
in Mohammed's reign, some Christians, from fear of death, even apostatized.

"Whither," they triumphantly
asked,[2] "has that bravery of your martyrs vanished? What has become
of the rash frenzy with which they courted death?" Yet though they
affected to consider the martyrs as fools or madmen, they could not
be blind to the effect that their constancy was likely to produce
on those who beheld their death, and to the reverence with which their
relics were regarded by the Christians.

They therefore expressly forbade the bodies of martyrs to be preserved[3] and worshipped, and did their
best to make this in certain cases impossible by burning the corpses
and scattering the ashes on the river, though sometimes they contented themselves
with throwing the bodies, unburnt, into the stream.

[1] "Mem. Sanct.," i. sec. 12.

[2] Eulog., "Mem. Sanct.," iii. sec. 6.

[3] See "De Translatione corporum Sanctorum Martyrum," etc., sec.

11.

"Non enim, quos martyres faciunt, venerari Saraceni permittunt."

See above, p. 38. The bodies of earlier martyrs were more freely given up at the request of the
Christians. See "Chron. Silen.," secs. 95-100; Dozy, iv. 119, for the surrender of the body of Justus; and
Eul., "Ad Wiliesindum," sec. 9, where Eulogius mentions that he had taken the bodies of Saints
Zoilus and Austus to Pampluna. Later, Hakem II. (961-976) gave up the body of the boy Pelagius at Ramiro
III.'s request. Mariana, viii. 5.

However, in spite of these regulations, many bodies were secretly
carried off and entombed in churches, where they were looked upon
as the most precious of possessions; and martyrs, who, by the admission
of their admirers themselves, had never worked any miracles when living,
were enabled, when dead, to perform a series of extraordinary ones,
which did not finally cease till modern enlightenment had dissipated
the darkness of the Middle Ages.

We happen to possess a very interesting account of the circumstances
under which the relics of three of these Cordovan martyrs were transferred
from the troubled scene of their passion to the more peaceful and more
superstitious cloisters of France.[1]

It was in 858 that Hilduin, the abbot of the monastery of St Vincent
and the Holy Cross, near Paris, learning that the body of their patron saint,
St Vincent, was at Valencia, sent two monks, Usuard and Odilard,
with the king's[2] permission, to procure the precious relics for
their own monastery.

On their way to perform this commission,
the monks learnt that the body was no longer at Valencia. It had
been, in fact, carried[3] by a monk named Andaldus to Saragoza. Senior,
the bishop of that city, had seized it, and it was still held in veneration
there, but under the name of St Marinus, whose body the monk had
stoutly asserted it to be.

Senior apparently doubted the statement, and tortured Andaldus to get the
truth out of him, but in vain; for the monk, knowing that St Vincent had
been deacon of Saragoza, feared that the bishop would never surrender
the body if aware of its identity.



We saw there some Chinese quite unlike any that we have met before. We have heard that most
of those who come to the Pacific Coast are of an inferior kind, chiefly Tartars. There we saw
some quite handsome ones, who had more of an Arab look, and had also elegant manners,--one,
especially, who had a little office near us. On the birthday of the Emperor of China, his room
was ornamented with a picture of Confucius, before which he burned scented wood; and hanging
over it was an air-castle, with the motto, "God is Love." 

As, Hydraulica, Organes goyng by water. &c. Of this Feat, (called commonly Pneumatica,) goodly workes
are extant, both in Greke, and Latin. With old and learned Schole
men, it is called Scientia de pleno & vacuo.

+‡Menadrie‡, is an Arte Mathematicall, which demonstrateth, how, aboue
Natures vertue and power simple: Vertue and force may be multiplied: and
so, to direct, to lift, to pull to, and to put or cast fro, any multiplied
or simple, determined Vertue, Waight or Force: naturally, not, so,
directible or moueable.+ Very much is this Art furdred by other Artes: as,
in some pointes, by Perspectiue: in some, by Statike: in some, by
Trochilike: and in other, by Helicosophie: and Pneumatithmie.

By this Art, all Cranes, Gybbettes, & Ingines to lift vp, or to force any thing,
any maner way, are ordred: and the certaine cause of their force, is
knowne: As, the force which one man hath with the Duche waghen Racke:
therwith, to set vp agayne, a mighty waghen laden, being ouerthrowne.
The force of the Crossebow Racke, is certainly, here, demonstrated. The
reason, why one mã, doth with a leauer, lift that, which Sixe men,
with their handes onely, could not, so easily do.

By this Arte, in our common Cranes in London, where powre is to Crane vp, the waight of 2000. pound: by two
Wheles more (by good order added) Arte concludeth, that there may be Craned vp 200000. pound waight
&c. So well knew Archimedes this Arte: that he alone, with his deuises
and engynes, (twise or thrise) spoyled and discomfited the whole
Army and Hoste of the Romaines, besieging Syracusa,

[=Plutarchus in Marco Marcello.=]

Marcus Marcellus the Consul, being
their Generall Capitaine.

[=Synesius in Epistolis.=]

Such huge Stones, so many, with such force, and so farre, did he with
his engynes hayle among them, out of the Citie.

[=Polybius.=]

[=Plinius.=]

[=Quintilianus.=]

[=T. Liuius.=]

And by Sea likewise: though their Ships might come to the walls of
Syracusa, yet hee vtterly confounded the Romaine Nauye.

What with his mighty Stones hurlyng:

[=* Athenæus.=]

what with Pikes of * 18 fote long, made like shaftes: which he forced
almost a quarter of a myle. What, with his catchyng hold of their
Shyps, and hoysing them vp aboue the water, and suddenly letting
them fall into the Sea againe:

[= * Galenus.=]

[=Anthemius.=]

what
with his * Burning Glasses: by which he fired their other Shippes
a far-of: what, with his other pollicies, deuises, and engines, he
so manfully acquit him selfe: that all the Force, courage, and pollicie
of the Romaines (for a great season) could nothing preuaile, for the
winning of Syracusa.

Wherupon, the Romanes named Archimedes, Briareus, and Centimanus. Zonaras
maketh mention of one Proclus, who so well had perceiued Archimedes
Arte of Menadrie, and had so well inuented of his owne, that with his Burning
Glasses,

[Burning Glasses.]

being placed vpon the walles of Bysance, he multiplied so the heate
of the Sunne, and directed the beames of the same against his enemies
Nauie with such force, and so sodeinly (like lightening) that he burned
and destroyed both man and ship.

  
And Dionspecifieth of Priscus, a Geometricien in Bysance, who inuented
and vsed sondry Engins, of Force multiplied: Which was cause, that
the Emperour Seuerus pardoned him, his life, after he had wonne Bysance:
Bycause he honored the Arte, wytt, and rare industrie of Priscus. But
nothing inferior to the inuention of these engines of Force, was
the inuention of Gunnes.

[Gunnes.]

Which, from an English man, had the occasion and order of first inuenting:
though in an other land, and by other men, it was first executed. And they
that should see the record, where the occasion and order generall,
of Gunning, is first discoursed of, would thinke: that, “small thinges,
slight, and cõmon: comming to wise mens consideration, and industrious
mens handling, may grow to be of force incredible.”
+‡Hypogeiodie‡, is an Arte Mathematicall, demonstratyng, how, vnder
the Sphæricall Superficies of the earth, at any depth, to any perpendicular
line assigned (whose distance from the perpendicular of the entrance:
and the Azimuth, likewise, in respect of the said entrance, is knowen)
certaine way may be præscribed and gone: And how, any way aboue the
Superficies of the earth designed, may vnder earth, at any depth limited,
be kept: goyng alwayes, perpendicularly, vnder the way, on earth designed:
And, contrarywise, Any way, (straight or croked,) vnder the earth,
beyng giuen: vppon the vtface, or Superficies of the earth, to Lyne
out the same: So, as, from the Centre of the earth, perpendiculars
drawen to the Sphæricall Superficies of the earth, shall precisely
fall in the Correspondent pointes of those two wayes. Before he would agree to come, he said he must go and consult the idol in the temple.
He burned little fragrant sticks before him; but how he divined what his pleasure might be,
I could not tell.

We hesitated about taking him, considering his very stunted appearance; but he said, "Me heap
smart," and that settled it. "Heap" must be a word the Chinese have picked up at the mines.
It is in constant requisition in any attempt to converse with them.

Last night we had a heavy shock of earthquake. How different it is from merely reading that
the crust of the earth is thin, and that there is fire under it, to feel it tremble under your
feet! I was glad to have one thing more made real to me, that before meant nothing. It was
a strange, deep trembling, as if every thing were sliding away from us.

  NOVEMBER 18, 1875.

It gives one a lonesome feeling to see how many people here lead unsettled lives, looking upon
some other place as their home. Even the children, hearing so much talk about the East, seem
to have an idea that they really belong somewhere else. One of our little neighbors said to
me, "I have never been home;" although she, and all her grown-up brothers and sisters, were
born and brought up here. Many of the customs of the place are adapted to a temporary way of
living. In most parts of the city, it would be hard to find a street without signs of "Furnished
rooms to let." Besides innumerable restaurants, a flying kitchen travels about, with every
thing cooking as it goes along, and clean-looking men, with white aprons, to serve the food;
one ringing a bell, and looking out in every direction, to see what is wanted.

The numerous windmills, for raising water, give the city a lively look. The wind keeps them
always in motion. The constant whirring of the wheels, and the general breezy look of things,
distinguish this place from all others that I have seen. Sir Francis Drake, entering the bay
nearly three hundred years ago, refers, with great delight, to "a franke wind," that took him
"into a safe and good baye." There was, for a long time, some doubt as to which of several
ports he made. I think that mention of the wind settles it. The identical wind has been blowing
with undiminished vigor ever since. In summer (the time he was here), it will carry a vessel
in against the strongest tide.

The city is built mostly of wood. The absence of foliage, and the neutral color of the houses,
give the streets a dull gray look, here and there redeemed by the scarlet geranium, which,
if not a native, is most thoroughly naturalized,--it grows so sturdily, even in the poorest yards.

  APRIL 30, 1876.

We had a long ride out to the Seal-Rocks, past great wavy hills, with patches of gold, brighter
than the dandelions and buttercups are at home. This was the eschcholtzia, or California poppy.
Occasionally we passed great tracts of lupine. The lowland was a sea of blue iris.

Suddenly, as we surmounted a height, the ocean rolled in before us, line after line of breakers,
on a broad beach. I sees too many married troubles to mess up with such doings!

Sometimes the master sent me alone to the grinding mill.

Load in the yellow corn, hitch in the oxen, I was ready to go. I gets me
fixed up with a pass and takes to the road.

That was the trip I like best. On the way was a still. Off in the
bresh.

If the still was lonely I stop, not on the way to but on the way back. Mighty
good whiskey, too! Maybe I drinks too much, then I was sorry.

Not that I swipe the whiskey, just sorry because I gets sick!

Then I figures a woods camp meeting will steady me up and I goes.

The preacher meet me and want to know how is my feelings.

I says I is low with the misery and he say to join up with the Lord.

I
never join because he don't talk about the Lord.

Just about the Master and Mistress.

How the slaves must obey around the plantation--how the white folks
know what is good for the slaves.

  

Nothing about obeying the Lord and working for him.

I reckon the old preacher was worrying more about the bull whip than
he was the Bible, else he say something about the Lord!

But I always obeys the Lord--that's why I is still living!

  

The slaves would pray for to get out of bondage. Some of them say the Lord told them to run away.
Get to the North. Cross the Red River. Over there would be folks
to guide them to the Free State (Kansas).

The Lord never tell me to run away.

I never
tried it, maybe, because mostly they was caught by patrollers and fetched
back for a flogging--and I had whippings enough already!

Before the Civil War was the fighting with Mexico. Some of the troops
on they way south passed on the Military Road.

Wasn't any fighting around Linden or Jefferson during the time.

They was lots of traveling on the Military Road. Most of the time you could see
covered wagons pulled by mules and horses, and sometimes a crawling
string of wagons with oxen on the pulling end.

From up in Arkansas come the stage coach along the road. To San Antonio. The drivers bring news the Mexicans just
about all killed off and the white folks say Texas was going to join
the Union.

The country's going to be run different they say, but I never see no difference. Maybe, because I ain't
white folks.

Wasn't many Mexicans around the old plantation. Come and go. Lots of Indians. Cherokees and Choctaws.
Living in mud huts and cabin shacks. I never see them bother the whites, it was the other way around.

During
the Civil War, when the Red River was bank high with muddy water,
the Yankee's made a target of Jefferson.

That was a small town down south of Linden.

  Down the river come a flat barge with cannon fastened to the deck. The
Yankee soldiers stopped across the river from Jefferson and the shooting
started.

When the cannon went to popping the folks went arunning--hard to tell who run the fastest, the whites or the blacks!
Almost the town was wiped out.

Buildings was smashed and big trees cut through with the cannon balls.

Before
the Civil War everybody had money.

The white folks, not the negroes.

Sometimes the master take me to the town stores.

They was full of money. Cigar boxes on the counter, boxes on the shelf, all filled with money.
Not the crinkley paper kind, but hard, jingley gold and silver!

Not like these scarce times!

After the War I stay on the plantation 'til a soldier man tells me
of the freedom.

The master never tell us--negroes working just like before the War.

That's when I leave the first time. Slip off, saying nothing, to Jefferson.
There I found some good white folks going to New Orleans. First place we
go is Shreveport, by wagon. They took me because I fix up with them to
do the cooking.

On to the Big River (Mississippi) and boards a river steamboat for New Orleans. Lots of negroes
going down there--to work on the canal.

The whole town was built on logs covered with dirt. Trying to raise
itself right out of the swamp. Sometimes the water get high and folks
run for the hills.

When I got there almost was I ready to leave.

I like Texas the best. Back to Jefferson is where I go. Fifteen-twenty mile
below Linden. Almost the first person I see was Master Davenport.

  

He says, "Black rascal, you is coming with me." And I do.

He tried to keep his slaves and just laugh when I tell him about the freedom. I worked for food and quarters
'til his meanness come cropping out again.

That wasn't long and he threatened me with the whip and the buck and
gag.

The buck and gag was maybe worse. I got to feeling that iron stick in my
mouth, fastened around my head with chains, pressing hard on my tongue.

No drinking, no eating, no talking!

So I slip off again.

That night I goes through Linden. Crawling on my hands and knees! Keeping in the dark spots, hiding from
the whites, 'til I pass the last house, then my feets hurries me
to Jefferson, where I gets a ride to Arkansas.

In Russelville is where I stop. There I worked around in the yards,
cutting the grass, fancying the flower beds, and earned a little
money for clothes and eats, with some of it spent for good whiskey.

That was the reason I left Arkansas. Whiskey.

The law got after me to tell where was a man's whiskey still. I just leave so's I won't have to tell.

But while I was making a little money in Russelville, I lose out on some
big money, account some white folks beat me to it.

I was out in the hills west of town, walking along the banks of a little
creek, when I heard a voice. Queer like. I called out who is that talking
and I hears it again.

"Go to the white oak tree and you will find Ninety Thousand Dollars!" That's
what I hear. I look around, nobody in sight, but I see the tree. A
big white oak tree standing taller than all the rest 'round about.

Under
the tree was a grave. An old grave. I scratch around but finds no money
and thinks of getting some help.

I done some work for a white man in town and told him about the voice. He promised to go with me, but the next day he
took two white mens and dug around the tree. Then he says they was nothing to find.

To this day I know better. I know wherever they's a ghost, money is around
someplace! That's what the ghost comes back for.

Somebody dies and leaves buried money. The ghost watches over it 'til
it sees somebody it likes. Then ghost shows himself--lets know he's
around.

Sometimes the ghost tells where is the money buried, like that time at Russelville.

That ain't the only ghost I've seen or heard. I see one around the
yard where I is living now. A woman.

Some of these times she'll tell me where the buried money is.

Maybe the ghost woman thinks I is too old to dig. But I been a-digging all these long years. For a bite
to eat and a sleep-under cover.

I reckon pretty soon she's going to tell where to dig. When she does, then
old Uncle John won't have to dig for the eats no more!

Tulsa, Okla.

Iffen I could see better out'n my old eyes, and I had me something to work with and de feebleness
in my back and head would let me 'lone, I would have me plenty to eat
in de kitchen all de time, and plenty tobaccy in my pipe, too, bless
God!

And dey wouldn't be no rain trickling through de holes in de roof, and
no planks all fell out'n de flo' on de gallery neither, 'cause dis one
old nigger knows everything about making all he need to git along!

  

Old Master done showed him how to git along in dis world, jest as long as he live on a plantation, but living
in de town is a different way of living, and all you got to have is a silver dime to lay down for
everything you want, and I don't git de dime very often.

But I aint give up! Nothing like dat! On de days when I don't feel so feeble
and trembly I jest keep patching 'round de place. I got to keep patching
so as to keep it whar it will hold de winter out, in case I git to see
another winter.

Iffen I don't, it don't grieve me none, 'cause I wants to see old
Master again anyways.

I reckon maybe I'll jest go up an ask him what he want me to do,
and he'll tell me, and iffen I don't know how he'll show me how,
and I'll try to do it to please him.

And when I git it done I wants to hear him grumble like he used to and say, "Charley, you ain't got
no sense but you is a good boy. Dis here ain't very good but it'll
do, I reckon. Git yourself a little piece o' dat brown sugar, but
don't let no niggers see you eating it--if you do I'll whup your
black behind!"

Dat ain't de way it going be in Heaven, I reckon, but I can't set
here on dis old rottendy gallery and think of no way I better like
to have it!

I was a great big hulking buck of a boy when de War come along and bust
up everything, and I can 'member back when everybody was living peaceful
and happy, and nobody never had no notion about no war.

I was borned on the 'leventh of January, in 1843, and was old enough
to vote when I got my freedom, but I didn't take no stock in all dat
politics and goings on at dat time, and I didn't vote till a long
time after old Master passed away, but I was big enough before de
War to remember everything pretty plain.

Old Master name was John Williams, and old Mistress name was Miss Betty,
and she was a Campbell before she married.

Young
Missy was named Betty after her mommy, and Young Master was named Frank, but I don't know who after.
Our overseer was Mr. Simmons, and he was mighty smart and had a lot
of patience, but he wouldn't take no talk nor foolishness.

He didn't whup nobody very often, but he only had to whup 'em jest one
time! He never did whup a nigger at de time the nigger done something,
but he would wait till evening and have old Master come and watch
him do it.

He never whupped very hard 'cept when he had told a nigger about something and promised a whupping next time
and the nigger done it again. Then that nigger got what he had
been hearing 'bout!

De plantation was about as big as any.

I think it had about three hundred acres, and it was about two miles northwest of Monroe, Louisiana.
Then he had another one not so big, two--three miles south of the big one, kind
of down in the woodsy part along the White river bottoms.

He had another overseer on that place and a big passel of niggers, but I never
did go down to that one. That was where he raised most of his corn
and shoats, and lots of sorghum cane.

  Our plantation was up on higher ground, and it was more open country, but
still they was lots of woods all around and lots of the plantations had
been whacked right out of de new ground and was full of stumps. Master's
place was more open, though, and all in the fields was good plowing.

The big road runned right along past our plantation, and it come from
Shreveport and run into Monroe.

There wasn't any town at Monroe in them days, jest a little cross roads place with a general store
and a big hide house. I think there was about two big hide houses, and you could
smell that place a mile before you got into it. Old Master had a part
in de store, I think.

De hide houses was jest long sheds, all open along de sides and kivered over wid cypress clapboards.

Down
below de hide houses and de store was jest a little settlement of one or two houses, but they was a school
for white boys. Somebody said there was a place where they had been an old fort, but I never did see
it.

Everything boughten we got come from Shreveport, and was brung in by
the stage and the freighters, and that was only a little coffee or
gunpowder, or some needles for the sewing, or some strap iron for
the blacksmith, or something like dat.

We made and raised everything else we needed right on the place.

I never did even see any quinine till after I was free. My mammy
knowed jest what root to go out and pull up to knock de chills right
out'n me.

And de bellyache and de running off de same way, too.

Our plantation was a lot different from some I seen other places, like way east of there, around Vicksburg.
Some of them was fixed up fancier but dey didn't have no more comforts than we had.

Old Master come out into that country when he was a young man, and they didn't have
even so much then as they had when I was a boy. I think he come from
Alabama or Tennessee, and way back his people had come from Virginia,
or maybe North Carolina, 'cause he knowed all about tobacco on the
place.

  

Cotton and tobacco was de long crops on his big place, and of course lots of horses and cattle
and mules.

De big house was made out'n square hewed logs, and chinked wid little
rocks and daubed wid white clay, and kivered wid cypress clapboards.
I remember one time we put on a new roof, and de niggers hauled up
de cypress logs and sawed dem and frowed out de clapboards by hand.

De house had two setting rooms on one side and a big kitchen room
on de other, wid a wide passage in between, and den about was de sleeping
rooms.

They wasn't no stairways 'cepting on de outside. Steps run up to de sleeping
rooms on one side from de passageway and on de other side from clean outside
de house. Jest one big chimbley was all he had, and it was on de kitchen end,
and we done all de cooking in a fireplace dat was purty nigh as wide
as de whole room.

In de sleeping rooms day wasn't no fires 'cepting in brazers made out of clay, and we toted up charcoal
to burn in 'em when it was cold mornings in de winter. Dey kept warm
wide de bed clothes and de knitten clothes dey had.

Master never did make a big gallery on de house, but our white folks
would set out in de yard under de big trees in de shade.

They was long benches made out'n hewed logs and all padded wid gray moss and corn
shuck padding, and dey set pretty soft. All de furniture in de
house was home-made, too. De beds had square posts as big around as
my shank and de frame was mortised into 'em, and holes bored in de
frame and home-made rope laced in to make it springy.

Den a great big mattress full of goose feathers and two--three comforts
as thick as my foot wid carded wool inside! Dey didn't need no fireplaces!

De
quarters was a little piece from de big house, and dey run along
both sides of de road dat go to de fields.

All
one-room log cabins, but dey was good and warm, and every one had a little
open shed at de side whar we sleep in de summer to keep cool.

They was two or three wells at de quarters for water, and some good
springs in de branch at de back of de fields. You could ketch a fish
now and den in dat branch, but Young Master used to do his fishing
in White River, and take a nigger or two along to do de work at his
camp.

It wasn't very fancy at de Big House, but it was mighty pretty jest de
same, wid de gray moss hanging from de big trees, and de cool green
grass all over de yard, and I can shet my old eyes and see it jest
like it was before de War come along and bust it up.

I can see old Master setting out under a big tree smoking one of his long cheroots his tobacco nigger
made by hand, and fanning hisself wid his big wide hat another nigger platted out'n young
inside corn shucks for him, and I can hear him holler at a big bunch
of white geeses what's gitting in his flower beds and see 'em string
off behind de old gander towards de big road.

When de
day begin to crack de whole plantation break out wid all kinds of noises,
and you could tell what going on by de kind of noise you hear.

Come de daybreak you hear de guinea fowls start potracking down at
de edge of de woods lot, and den de roosters all start up 'round de
barn and de ducks finally wake up and jine in.

You can smell de sow belly frying down at the cabins in de "row", to go wid de
hoecake and de buttermilk.

Den purty soon de wind rise a little, and you can hear a old bell donging way on some plantation
a mile or two off, and den more bells at other places and maybe
a horn, and purty soon younder go old Master's old ram horn wid a long
toot and den some short toots, and here come de overseer down de
row of cabins, hollering right and left, and picking de ham out'n
his teeth wid a long shiny goose quill pick.

Bells and horns! Bells for dis and horns for dat! All we knowed was go
and come by de bells and horns!

Old ram horn blow to send us all to de field. We all line up, about seventy-five
field niggers, and go by de tool shed and git our hoes, or maybe
go hitch up de mules to de plows and lay de plows out on de side so de
overseer can see iffen de points is shart. Any plow gits broke or de point
gits bungled up on de rocks it goes to de blacksmith nigger, den we
all git on down in de field.

Den
de anvil start dangling in de blacksmith shop: "Tank! Deling-ding! Tank!
Deling-ding!", and dat ole bull tongue gitting straightened out!

Course you can't hear de shoemaker awling and pegging, and de card
spinners, and de old mammy sewing by hand, but maybe you can hear
de old loom going "frump, frump", and you know it all right iffen
your clothes do be wearing out, 'cause you gwine git new britches
purty soon!

We had about a hundred niggers on dat place, young and old, and about
twenty on de little place down below. We could make about every kind
of thing but coffee and gunpowder dat our whitefolks and us needed.

When we needs a hat we gits inside cornshucks and weave one out, and makes
horse collars de same way. Jest tie two little soft shucks together
and begin plaiting.

All de cloth 'cepting de Mistress' Sunday dresses come from de sheep
to de carders and de spinners and de weaver, den we dye it wid "butternut"
and hickory bark and indigo and other things and set it wid copperas.
Leather tanned on de place made de shoes, and I never see a store boughten
wagon wheel 'cepting among de stages and de freighters along de big road.

We
made purty, long back-combs out'n cow horn, and knitting needles
out'n second hickory.

Split a young hickory and put in a big
wedge to prize it open, then cut it down and let it season, and you got
good bent grain for wagon hames and chair rockers and such.

It was jest like dat until I was grown, and den
one day come a neighbor man and say we in de War.

Little while young Master Frank ride over to Vicksburg and jine de
Sesesh army, but old Master jest go on lak nothing happen, and we
all don't hear nothing more until long come some Sesesh soldiers and
take most old Master's hosses and all his wagons.

I bin working on de tobacco, and when I come back to de barns everything
was gone. I would go into de woods and git good hickory and burn it
till it was all coals and put it out wid water to make hickory charcoal
for curing de tobacco. I had me some charcoal in de fire trenches under
de curing houses, all full of new tobacco, and overseer come and
say bundle all de tobacco up and he going take it to Shreveport and
sell it befo' de soldiers take it too.

After de hosses all gone and
most de cattle and de cotton and de tobacco gone too, here come de
Yankees and spread out all over de whole country. Dey had a big camp
down below our plantation.

One evening a big bunch of Yankee officers
come up to de Big House and old Master set out de brandy in de yard
and dey act purty nice. Next day de whole bunch leave on out of dat
part.

When de hosses and stuff all go old Master sold all de slaves
but about four, but he kept my pappy and mammy and my brother Jimmie
and my sister Betty. She was named after old Mistress. Pappy's name
was Charley and mammy's was Sally. De niggers he kept didn't have
much work without any hosses and wagons, but de blacksmith started
in fixing up more wagons and he kept them hid in de woods till they
was all fixed.

Den along come some more Yankees, and dey tore everything
we had up, and old Master was afeared to shoot at them on account
his womenfolks, so he tried to sneak the fambly out but they kotched
him and brung him back to de plantation.

We niggers didn't know dat
he was gone until we seen de Yankees bringing dem back. De Yankees
had done took charge of everything and was camping in de big yard,
and us was all down at de quarters scared to death, but dey was jest
letting us alone.

It was night when de white folks tried to go away,
and still night when de Yankees brung dem back, and a house nigger
come down to de quarters wid three--four mens in blue clothes and
told us to come up to de Big House.

De Yankees didn't seem to be
mad wid old Master, but jest laughed and talked wid him, but he didn't
take de jokes any too good.

Den dey asked him could he dance and
he said no, and dey told him to dance or make us dance. Dar he stood
inside a big ring of dem mens in blue clothes, wid dey brass buttons
shining in de light from de fire dey had in front of de tents, and
he jest stood and said nothing, and it look lak he wasn't wanting
to tell us to dance.

So some of us young bucks jest step up and say
we was good dancers, and we start shuffling while de rest of de niggers
pat.

Some nigger women go back to de quarters and git de gourd fiddles
and de clapping bones made out'n beef ribs, and bring dem back so
we could have some music. We git all warmed up and dance lak we never
did dance befo'! I speck we invent some new steps dat night!

We act
lak we dancing for de Yankees, but we trying to please Master and
old Mistress more than anything, and purty soon he begin to smile
a little and we all feel a lot better.

Next day de Yankees move on
away from our place, and old Master start gitting ready to move out.
We git de wagons we hid, and de whole passel of us leaves out for
Shreveport. Jest left de old place standing like it was.

In Shreveport
old Master git his cotton and tobacco money what he been afraid to
have sent back to de plantation when he sell his stuff, and we strike
out north through Arkansas.

Dat was de awfullest trip any man ever
make! We had to hide from everybody until we find out if dey Yankees
or Sesesh, and we go along little old back roads and up one mountain
and down another, through de woods all de way.

After a long time
we git to the Missouri line, and kind of cut off through de corner
of dat state into Kansas. I don't know how we ever git across some
of dem rivers but we did. Dey nearly always would be some soldiers
around de fords, and dey would help us find de best crossing. Sometimes
we had to unload de wagons and dry out de stuff what all got wet,
and camp a day or two to fix up again.

Purty soon we git to Fort
Scott, and that was whar de roads forked ever whichaways. (a good deal); and that the "Melicans
half likee, half no likee;" but the Irishmen "no likee nothing,"--seeing so plainly who their
true enemies are. Many of the principal people here are Irish. On St. Patrick's Day, R----
told him that he was going to take Margie to see the procession, and that he could go too;
but he said, with an air of immense superiority, that he did not care to go and see the "whiskey
men;" he would rather stop at home, and do his work.

I feel now that all my responsibilities are shared. A while ago, R---- was obliged to stay
out one night till twelve o'clock; and, when he came home, he found the boy, with his little
black head on the kitchen table, fast asleep. When he waked him, and asked him what he was
there for, he said, that, as every one else was asleep, he staid there to take care of the
house. On another occasion, when R---- was to be out late again, I took pains to tell him to
go right to bed, as soon as he had washed the dishes. He looked up at me, as if he were going
to suggest the most insuperable obstacle to that, and asked, "Who fuff the light?" (put it out.)

One thing that I am always very much impressed with, in regard to the Chinese, is the feeling
of there being something ancient about them, no matter how young they may be themselves; not
only because many of them wear clothes which appear to have been handed down from their remotest
ancestors, but they have ancient ideas. This boy, although he is of such a cheerful temperament,
seems always to keep his own death in view, as much as the old Egyptian kings ever did. He
pays a kind of burial-fee, amounting to nearly a quarter of his wages, every month, to some
one appointed by the Chinese company to which he belongs; and when R---- remonstrated with
him, and told him how foolish and unnecessary it was, and how much better it would be to spend
the money for something else, he seemed to regard his remarks with great horror, and said he
must pay it; to leave off wasn't to be thought of, for then, he said, he should have "no hole
to get into" (meaning no grave), and there would be no apples thrown away at his funeral.

We one day heard him speaking of one of his countrymen as an Irish Chinaman; and, when we asked
him what he meant, he said there were Irish Chinamen, French Chinamen, and Spanish Chinamen.
Our own observation seems to confirm this idea. We see often among them the light, careless
temperament which marks the French; these are the men who support the theatres, and patronize
the gaming-dens. The grave, serene Spanish is the common type; and, since the hoodlum spirit
has broken out among the Californians, it has called out a coarse, rough class among the Chinese,
corresponding to the lower grades of the Irish. To this class belong the "Highbinders,"--men
bound by secret oaths to murder, robbery, and outrage. The actual crimes that can be justly
charged against the Chinese in this country are due, almost wholly, to the spirit that evoked
these men.

Their ingenuity is equal to their perseverance in accomplishing an end. The Six Companies having
made a regulation in regard to the wash-houses, that there should be at least fifteen houses
between every two of them, one of the washmen was notified that he must give up his business,
there being only fourteen houses between his and the next establishment. Although the Six Companies'
directions are absolute law, he had no idea of doing this. He carefully examined the fourteen
buildings, and found among them a deserted pickle manufactory, which he hired for one day,
with the privilege of putting up a partition which would divide it into two houses,--in that
way fulfilling the requirements of the law.

  APRIL 30, 1877.

There has lately been a great excitement about the Chinese here, and several meetings have
been held to consider how to get rid of them; and anti-Chinese processions, carrying banners
with crossed daggers, have paraded the streets. One night the Chinese armed themselves, and
went up on to the tops of their houses, prepared to fire on a mob. They issued a proclamation,
saying, that they were not much accustomed to fighting (I remember learning, in the geography,
that they dressed themselves in quilted petticoats when they went to battle), but they should
sell their lives as dearly as they could. 

Thus they traveled night and day for three weeks, only stopping to
change horses and take their meals; yet he esteemed himself lucky
not to have been sent with a gang of convicts, chained to some atrocious
malefactor, or to have been ordered to make the journey on foot, like
his countryman, Prince Sanguzsko.

At last they reached Omsk, the head-quarters of Prince Gortchakoff,
then governor-general of Western Siberia.

By some informality in the mode of his transportation, the interpretation
of Piotrowski's sentence depended solely on this man: he might be
sent to work in one of the government manufactories, or to the mines,
the last, worst dread of a Siberian exile.

While awaiting the decision he was in charge of a gay, handsome young
officer, who treated him with great friendliness, and in the course
of their conversation, which turned chiefly on Siberia, showed him
a map of the country.

The prisoner devoured it with his eyes, tried to engrave it on his memory, asked innumerable questions
about roads and water-courses, and betrayed so much agitation that
the young fellow noticed it, and exclaimed, "Ah! don't think of escape.

Too many of your countrymen have tried it, and those are fortunate who, tracked on every side, famished,
desperate, have been able to put an end to themselves before being
retaken, for if they are, then comes the knout and a life of misery
beyond words.

In Heaven's name, give up that thought!" The commandant of the fortress paid him a short official visit, and exclaimed repeatedly,
"How sad! how sad! to come back when you were free-in a foreign country!"
The chief of police, a hard, dry, vulture-like man, asked why he
had dared to return without the czar's permission.

"I could not bear my homesickness," replied the prisoner. "O native
country!" said the Russian in a softened voice, "how dear thou art!"
After various official interviews he was taken to the governor-general's
ante-chamber, where he found a number of clerks, most of whom were
his exiled compatriots and received him warmly.

While he was talking with them a door opened, and Gortchakoff stood on the threshold: he fixed his eyes on the prisoner
for some moments, and withdrew without a word. An hour of intense anxiety followed, and then an
officer appeared, who announced that he was consigned to the distilleries
of Ekaterininski-Zavod, some two hundred miles farther north.

Ekaterininski-Zavod is a miserable village of a couple of hundred small houses on the river Irtish, in
the midst of a wide plain. Its inhabitants are all in some way connected
with the government distillery: they are the descendants of criminals
formerly transported.

Piotrowski, after a short interview with the inspector of the works,
was entered on the list of convicts and sent to the guard-house. "He is to
work with his feet in irons," added the inspector. This unusual severity
was in consequence of a memorandum in Prince Gortchakoff's own writing
appended to the prisoner's papers: "Piotrowski must be watched with
especial care."

The injunction was unprecedented, and impressed the director with
the prisoner's importance.

Before being
taken to his work he was surrounded by his fellow-countrymen, young
men of talent and promise, who were there, like himself, for political
reasons.

Their emotion was extreme: they talked rapidly and eagerly, exhorting
him to patience and silence, and to do nothing to incur corporal punishment,
which was the mode of keeping the workmen in order, so that in time
he might be promoted, like themselves, from hard labor to office-work. At
the guard-house he found a crowd of soldiers, among whom were many
Poles, incorporated into the standing army of Siberia for having
taken up arms for their country.

This is one of the mildest punishments for that offence. They seized every pretext for speaking
to him, to ask what was going on in Poland, and whether there were any hopes for her. Overcome by fatigue
and misery, he sat down upon a bench, where he remained sunk in the gloomiest thoughts until
accosted by a man of repulsive aspect, branded on the face--the Russian practice with criminals
of the worst sort--who said abruptly, "Get up and go to work." It was
the overseer, himself a former convict.

"O my God!" exclaims Piotrowski, "Thou alone
didst hear the bitter cry of my soul when this outcast first spoke to
me as my master."

Before going to work his irons were struck off, thanks to the instant
entreaties of his compatriots: he was then given a broom and shovel
and set to clear rubbish and filth off the roof of a large unfinished
building.

  

On one side was a convict of the lowest order, with whom he worked--on
the other, the soldier who mounted guard over them.

To avoid the indignity of chastisement or reproof--indeed, to escape
notice altogether--he bent his whole force to his task, without raising
his head, or even his eyes, but the iron entered into his soul and
he wept.

The order of his days knew no variation. Rising at sunrise, the convicts worked until eight o'clock,
when they breakfasted, then until their dinner at noon, and again from
one o'clock until dark. His tasks were fetching wood and water,
splitting and piling logs, and scavenger-work of all sorts: it was
all out of doors and in every extreme of the Siberian climate.

His companions were all ruffians of a desperate caste: burglary, highway robbery, rape,
murder in every degree, were common cases. One instance will suffice, and it is not the worst: it
was that of a young man, clerk of a wine-merchant in St. Petersburg. He had a mistress whom he
loved, but suspected of infidelity; he took her and another girl into the country for a holiday, and
as they walked together in the fields fired a pistol at his sweetheart's head: it only wounded her;
the friend rushed away shrieking for help; the victim fell on her knees and cried, "Forgive me!"
but he plunged a knife up to the hilt in her breast, and she fell
dead at his feet.

He gave himself up to justice, received the knout and was transported for life.

The daily contact with ignorant, brutish men, made worse than brutes
by a life of hideous crime, was the worst feature in his wretched existence.
He had determined never to submit to blows, should the forfeit be his own
life or another's, and the incessant apprehension kept his mind in a
state of frightful tension: it also nerved him to physical exertions
beyond his strength, and to a moral restraint of which he had not
deemed himself capable in the way of endurance and self-command.

But in the end he was the gainer. After the first year he was taken into the office of the establishment,
and received a salary of ten francs a month. He was also allowed to leave the barracks where he had
been herded with the convicts, and to lodge with two fellow-countrymen in a little house which
they built for themselves, and which they shared with the soldiers who
guarded them. It was a privilege granted to the most exemplary of the
convicts to lodge with one or other of the private inhabitants of
the village; but besides their own expenses they had to pay those
of the soldier detailed to watch them.

In the course of the winter they were comforted by the visit of a Polish priest. A certain number
are permitted, to travel through Siberia yearly, stopping wherever there are Polish prisoners
to administer the sacraments and consolations of their Church to them: there is no hardship which
these heroic men will not encounter in performing their thrice holy mission. Piotrowski, who, like all
Poles, was an ingrained Roman Catholic, after passing through phases of doubt and disbelief
had returned to a fervent orthodoxy: this spiritual succor was most
precious to himself and his brother-exiles.

One idea, however, was never absent from his mind--that of escape. At the moment of receiving his
sentence at Kiow he had resolved to be free, and his resolution had not faltered. He had neglected
no means of acquiring information about Siberia and the adjacent countries. For this he had listened to the
revolting confidences of the malefactors at the barracks--for this he heard with unflagging attention,
yet with no sign of interest, the long stories of the traders who came to the distillery from all parts
of the empire to sell grain or buy spirits. The office in which he passed his time from eight
in the morning until ten or eleven at night was their rendezvous, and
by a concentration of his mental powers he acquired a thorough and accurate
knowledge of the country from the Frozen Ocean to the frontiers of Persia and China,
and of all its manners and customs. The prisoner who meditates escape,
he says, is absorbed in an infinitude of details and calculations,
of which it is only possible to give the final result.

Slowly and painfully, little by little, he accumulated the indispensable
articles--disguise, money, food, a weapon, passports.

The last were the most essential and the
most difficult: two were required, both upon paper with the government
stamp--one a simple pass for short distances and absences, useless
beyond a certain limit and date; the other, the plakatny, or real
passport, a document of vital importance.

He was able to abstract the paper from the office, and a counterfeiter in the community forged
the formula and signatures. His appearance he had gradually changed by allowing his hair and beard to
grow, and he had studied the tone of thought and peculiar phraseology of the born Siberian, that he might
the better pass for a native.

More than six months went by in preparations: then he made two false starts. He had placed much hope
on a little boat, which was often forgotten at evening, moored in the Irtish. One dark night he
quietly loosed it and began to row away: suddenly the moon broke through the clouds, and at the
same instant the voices of the inspector and some of his subordinates were heard on the banks.
Piotrowski was fortunate enough to get back unperceived. On the second attempt a dense fog rose
and shut him in: he could not see a yard before him. All night long he pushed the boat hither
and thither, trying at least to regain the shore; at daybreak the vapor began to disperse, but it
was too late to go on; he again had the good luck to land undiscovered.
Five routes were open to him--all long, and each beset with its own
perils. He decided to go northward, recross the Uralian Mountains, and make
his way to Archangel, nearly a thousand miles off, where, among the
hundreds of foreign ships constantly in the docks, he trusted to find
one which would bring him to America.

Nobody knew his secret: he had vowed to perish rather than ever again involve
others in his fate. He reckoned on getting over the first danger of pursuit
by mingling with the crowds of people then traveling from every quarter
to the annual fair at Irbite at the foot of the Urals.

  

Finally, in February, 1846, he set out on foot. His costume consisted of three
shirts--a colored one uppermost, worn, Russian fashion, outside his
trousers, which were of heavy cloth, like his waistcoat--and a small
sheepskin burnous, heavy high boots, a bright woolen sash, a red
cap with a fur border--the dress of a well-to-do peasant or commercial
traveler.

     
     
     In a small bag he carried a change of clothing and his provisions: his
     money and passports were hidden about his person; he was armed with
     a dagger and a bludgeon. He had scarcely crossed the frozen Irtish when
     the sound of a sleigh behind him brought his heart to his mouth: he held
     his ground and was hailed by a peasant, who wanted to drive a bargain
with him for a lift.

After a little
     politic chaffering he got in, and
     
     was carried to a village about eight miles off at a gallop. There the
     peasant set him down, and, knocking at the first house, he asked for horses
to the fair at Irbite. More bargaining, but they were soon on the road.
Erelong, however, it began to snow; the track disappeared, the driver
lost his way; they wandered about for some time, and were forced
to stop all night in a forest--a night of agony.

  They were not twelve miles from Ekaterininski-Zavod: every minute
the fugitive fancied he heard the bells of the pursuing kibitkas; he had
a horrible suspicion, too, that his driver was delaying purposely to
betray him, as had befallen a fellow-countryman in similar circumstances.
But at daybreak they found the road, and by nightfall, having changed
horses once or twice and traveled like the wind, he was well on his
way.

  

At a fresh relay he was forced to go into a tavern to make change to
pay his driver: as he stood among the tipsy crowd he was hustled and
his pocket-book snatched from his hand.

He could not discover the thief nor recover the purse: he durst not appeal to the police, and
had to let it go. In it, besides a quarter of his little hoard of money, there was a memorandum
of every town and village on his way to Archangel, and his plakatny.

In this desperate strait--for the last loss seemed to cut off hope--he had one paramount motive for
going on: return was impossible.

Once having left Ekaterininski-Zavod, his fate was sealed if retaken: he must go forward. Forward
he went, falling in with troops of travelers bound to the fair. On the third evening of his flight, notwithstanding
the time lost, he was at the gates of Irbite, over six hundred miles
from his prison. "Halt and show your passport!" cried the sentinel.
He was fumbling for the local pass with a sinking heart when the
soldier whispered, "Twenty kopecks and go ahead." He passed in. The
loss of his money and the unavoidable expenses had reduced his resources
so much that he found it necessary to continue the journey on foot.

He slept at Irbite, but was up early, and passed out of an opposite
gate unchallenged.

Now began a long and weary tramp. The winter of 1846 was one of unparalleled
rigor in Siberia.

The snow fell in enormous masses, which buried the roads deep out of sight and crushed solidly-built
houses under its weight. Every difficulty of an ordinary journey on foot was increased tenfold. Piotrowski's
clothes encumbered him excessively, yet he dared not take any of them off. His habit was to avoid
passing through villages as much as possible, but, if forced to do so to inquire his way, only to stop
at the last house.

When he was hungry he drew a bit of frozen bread from his wallet and ate it as he went along: to
quench his thirst he often had no resource but melting the snow in his mouth, which rather tends to
increase the desire for water. At night he went into the depths of the forest, dug a hole under
the snow, and creeping in slept there as best he might. At the first experiment his feet were frozen:
he succeeded in curing them, though not without great pain. Sometimes he plunged up to the waist or
neck in the drifts, and expected at the next step to be buried alive. One
night, having tasted to the full those two tortures, cold and hunger--of
which, as he says, we complain so frequently without knowing what
they mean--he ventured to ask for shelter at a little hut near a hamlet
where there were only two women.

They gave him warm food: he dried his drenched clothes, and stretched
himself out to sleep on the bench near the kitchen stove. He was roused
by voices, then shaken roughly and asked for his passport: there
were three men in the room. With amazing presence of mind he demanded
by what right they asked for his passport: were any of them officials?
No, but they insisted on knowing who he was and where he was going,
and seeing his pass.

He told them the same story that he had told the women, and finally exhibited the local pass, which
was now quite worthless, and would not have deceived a government
functionary for a moment: they were satisfied with the sight of the
stamp.

They excused themselves, saying that the women had taken fright and given the alarm, thinking
that, as sometimes happened, they were housing an escaped convict. This adventure taught him a severe
lesson of prudence. He often passed fifteen or twenty nights under the snow in the forest, without
seeking food or shelter, hearing the wolves howl at a distance. In this savage mode of life he
lost the count of time: he was already far in the Ural Mountains before he again ventured to sleep beneath a
roof. As he was starting the next morning his hosts said, in answer to his inquiries as to the
road, "A little farther on you will find a guard-house, where they
will look at your papers and give you precise directions."

Again how narrow an escape! He turned from the road and crossed hills and gorges, often up to the
chin in snow, and made an immense curve before taking up his march
again.

One moonlight night, in the dead silence of the ice-bound winter, he
stood on the ridge of the mountain-chain and began to descend its eastern
slope. Still on and on, the way more dangerous than before, for now there
were large towns upon his route, which he could only avoid by going greatly
out of his way. One night in the woods he completely lost his bearings;
a tempest of wind and snow literally whirled him around; his stock
of bread was exhausted, and he fell upon the earth powerless; there
was a buzzing in his ears, a confusion in his ideas; his senses forsook
him, and but for spasms of cramp in his stomach he had no consciousness
left.

Torpor was settling upon him when a loud voice recalled him to himself:
it was a trapper, who lived hard by, going home with his booty.

He poured some brandy down the dying man's throat, and when this
had somewhat revived him gave him food from his store. After some
delay the stranger urged Piotrowski to get up and walk, which he
did with the utmost difficulty: leaning upon this Samaritan of the
steppes, he contrived to reach the highway, where a small roadside
inn was in sight.

  There his companion left him, and he staggered forward with unspeakable
joy toward the warmth and shelter.

He would have gone in if he had known the
guards were there on the lookout for him, for his case was now desperate.

He only got as far as the threshold, and there fell forward and rolled under a bench. He asked for hot
soup, but could not swallow, and after a few minutes fell into a swoon-like sleep which lasted twenty-four
hours. Restored by nourishment, rest and dry clothes, he set forth
again at once.

During the first part of his journey he had passed as a commercial
traveler; after leaving Irbite he was a workman seeking employment
in the government establishments; but now he assumed the character
of a pilgrim to the convent of Solovetsk on a holy island in the White
Sea, near Archangel.

For each change of part he had to change his manners, mode of speech,
his whole personality, and always be probable and consistent in his
account of himself.

It was mid-April: he had been journeying on foot for two months.

Easter was approaching, when these pious journeys were frequent, and not far from Veliki-Oustiog he fell
in with several bands of men and women--bohomolets, as they are called--on their way to Solovetsk. There were
more than two thousand in the town waiting for the frozen Dwina to open,
that they might proceed by water to Archangel.

It being Holy Week, Piotrowski was forced to conform to the innumerable
observances of the Greek ritual--prayers, canticles, genuflexions, prostrations,
crossings and bowings, as manifold as in his own, but different. His inner
consciousness suffered from this hypocrisy, but it was necessary
to his part. They were detained at Veliki-Oustiog a mortal month,
during which these acts of devotion went on with almost unabated
zeal among the boholomets.

          

At length the river was free, and they set out. Their vessel was a huge hulk which looked like a floating
barn: it was manned by twenty or thirty rowers, and to replenish his purse a little the fugitive took
an oar. The agent who had charge of the expedition required their passports: among the number
the irregularity of Piotrowski's escaped notice. The prayers and prostrations went on during
the voyage, which lasted a fort-night. One morning the early sunshine glittered on the gilded domes of Archangel:
the vessel soon touched the shore, and his passport was returned to him uninspected, with the small
sum he had earned by rowing.

He had reached his goal; a thousand miles of deadly suffering and
danger lay behind him; he was on the shores of the White Sea, with
vessels of every nation lying at anchor ready to bear him away to
freedom.

Yet he was careful
not to commit himself by any imprudence or inconsistency. He went
with the pilgrims to their vast crowded lodging-house, and for several
days joined in their visits to the different churches of Archangel;
but when they embarked again for the holy island he stayed behind
under the pretext of fatigue, but really to go unobserved to the
harbor.

There lay the ships from every part of the world, with their flags floating from the masts. Alas!
alas! on every wharf a Russian sentinel mounted guard day and night, challenging every one who
passed, and on the deck of each ship there was another. In vain he risked the consequences of dropping
his character of an ignorant Siberian peasant so far as to speak to a group of sailors, first in French
and then in German; they understood neither: the idlers on the quays began to gather round in idle
curiosity, and he had to desist. In vain, despite the icy coldness of the water, he tried swimming
in the bay to approach some vessel for the chance of getting speech
of the captain or crew unseen by the sentinel. In vain he resorted to every
device which desperation could suggest. After three days he was forced
to look the terrible truth in the face: there was no escape possible
from Archangel. How much wiser we should have been to have consulted the trees!--they
show so plainly that they have fought all their lives against a strong sea-wind, bending low,
and twisting themselves about, trying to get away from it.

We find that where we live is not Alameda proper, but is called the Encinal District,--encinal
being the Spanish for oak. I do not know whether they mean by it the old dusky evergreens,
or the poison oak which is every where their inseparable companion. Soon after we arrived,
we found ourselves severely affected by it. It was then in flower, and we attributed its strength
to that circumstance; but every change it passes through re-enforces its life,--when it ripens
its berries, when its leaves turn bright, or when the autumn rains begin. Every thing suits
it; moisture or dryness, whichever prevails, appears to be its element. Thoreau, who liked
to see weeds overrun flowers, would have rejoiced in its vigor. We never touch it; but any
one sensitive to its influence cannot pass near it, nor breathe the air where it grows, without
being affected by it. Alameda seems hardly ready for human occupancy yet, unless something
effectual can be done to exterminate it. We often see superficial means taken, like burning
it down to the level of the earth; but what short-sighted warfare is that which gives new strength
after a brief interval! On one account I forgive it many injuries,--that it furnishes our only
bright autumn foliage, turning into most vivid and beautiful shades of red. Except for the
poison oak, and a few of the long, narrow leaves of the Eucalyptus, that hang like party-colored
ribbons on the trees, we have no change in the foliage between summer and winter; there are
always the same old dingy evergreen oaks everywhere about us. 

The arki is named dang after its first rectification; arza, after the second; khortsa, after the third. They
seldom go farther, although the rectifications are sometimes pushed to six. The names given to the
two last are chingsta and dingsta. The Kalmucks are generally, however, content with the products
of the first distillation.

The receiver has scarcely been filled, when they pour the brandy warm from it
into a large wooden vessel with a spout, from which they fill leather
bottles, or gourds.

It is customary for the host, with whom the company is then, to pour brandy into a vessel, and afterwards
to throw part of it into the fire, and part towards the hole by which the smoke issues to render
the spirits of the air or his tutelary angel propitious. Lastly, the warm brandy circulates among
the company, composed of kinsfolk and friends, in large cups, which
often do not hold less than a bottle. If a little is left, it is heated again
before it is drunk. This milk-brandy, on account of the aqueous parts which
it contains, does not inebriate so easily when a small quantity is
taken, as brandy made from grain; but it is found, by the example
of the Russians and all the tribes of the Steppes, that the drunkenness
which it causes continues longer, and entirely destroys the appetite.

On the other hand, it does not produce violent head-aches, like corn-brandy.

The

rich Kalmucks and Mongols are in the habit, when they pass the winter near towns, of distilling with
or without milk brandy from leavened bread.

The product, it is said, is stronger, and has a keener taste than milk-brandy.
The residuum of the distillation of milk-brandy, which is sharp, and
has a smell like wine lees, is applied to various uses.

  Sometimes it is mixed with fresh milk, and immediately eaten; sometimes it
is applied for preparing sheep and lamb skins; sometimes the women boil it,
either by itself, or, if it is too sharp, with a mixture of sweet milk,
until it thickens, and then pour the cheesy substance into bags, which, when
thoroughly dried, they throw into heaps. They also, like the Tartar
tribes, frequently form it into round cakes, which they dry in the
sun, and keep principally for journeys and for winter use.

The residuum of distillation is called bosson, and by the Mongols tsakha.--The
cheese formed in heaps is named chourmyk, that in cakes, thorossoun.

They make another kind of cheese also, chiefly of sheep's and goats' milk. The fresh milk is put into
a kettle with a like sour milk (ederecksen ussun), or some remnant
of brandy (bossah). They are well mixed, and then left for some time
to sour. Fire is then put under the kettle, and the mixture is stirred
while it boils briskly, that the cheesy parts may be converted into
a kind of froth (koosoun). When all the aqueous parts of the milk
are expelled by boiling, it little butter is added. The whole is again
stirred, and left upon the fire until the froth begins to dry and
turn brown.

When I read in the papers, every week, about the people who kill themselves in San Francisco,--and
they generally say that they do it because there does not seem to be any thing worth living
for,--I wonder if it would not make a difference to them if they lived in the country, and
saw how entertaining the world looks to the lively little creatures about us, who think it
worth while to move so quickly, and look well about on every side, for fear they may miss seeing
something.

  JULY 2, 1878.

When we first came here in the spring, and found the ground all blue and yellow and white with
blossoms, I thought how interested I should be, to watch the succession of flowers. It is needless to
say that the changes of good or bad luck affected him not at all. Few men of his stamp indulge
in the weakness of railing at Fortune, which is the privilege and consolation of the roturier.
Neither was he ever heard to reproach a partner, or become bitter against an adversary. He seemed
to take a pleasure in disappointing those who were always expecting from him some savage outbreak
of temper: they judged from his appearance, and had some grounds for their
anticipations; for, winning or losing, that strange look, half-weary,
half-defiant, never was off his face. But, with Armand de Châteaumesnil,
the grand seigneur had not been merged in the soldier: the brusquerie
of the camp had not overlaid the manner of the courtly school in which
he and all his race had been trained; the school of those who would
stab their enemy to the heart with sarcasm or innuendo, but scorned
to stun him with blatant abuse--of those who would never have dreamt
of listening to a woman with covered head, though they might be deaf
as the nether millstone to her entreaties or her tears.

It was with the Revolution that the rapier went out, and the savate
came in.

Very few men came up to his standard of play; for he was hard to please in
style as well as in stakes. Keene did fully; and this, with a certain
similarity of tastes, accounted for his liking the latter so well.

He had little regard to throw away, and was chary of it in proportion.
On the other hand, Royston treated the invalid with an amount of deference
very unusual with him, in whom the bump of Veneration was probably
represented by a cavity.

The two were still talking on the terrace, when a man passed them,
who lifted his hat slightly, and then sighed audibly, looking upward
with an ostentatious contrition, as though he apologized to heaven
for such a bowing-down to Rimmon.
Opposite is a French family, who go off every year to a vineyard, to make wine; and, next to
them, a poor Spanish family, who carry round mussels to sell.

  MARCH 3, 1879.

We have had a real winter; not that it was very cold or snowy,--that it never is here,--but
so excessively rainy as to keep us a good deal in-doors. The grass grew up in the house, and
waved luxuriantly round the edges of the rooms. The oak-trees surprised us by bursting out
into fresh young green, though we had not noticed that they had lost any of their hard, evergreen
leaves.

  APRIL 10, 1879.

While we were crossing the ferry between San Francisco and Oakland one day, a peculiar-looking
person appeared on the deck of the boat, who saluted the assembled company in a most impressive
manner. "By no means."

"How then is it--?"

"It is, as it is," interrupted Gagabu. "The son of the vine-dresser has
his mouth full of grapes, and the child of the door-keeper opens
the lock with words."

"Never mind," said an old priest who had hitherto kept silence. "Paaker
earned for himself the post of Mohar, and possesses many praiseworthy
qualities.

He is indefatigable and faithful, quails before no danger, and has
always been earnestly devout from his boyhood. When the other scholars carried
their pocket-money to the fruit-sellers and confectioners at the temple-gates,
he would buy geese, and, when his mother sent him a handsome sum,
young gazelles, to offer to the Gods on the altars.

No noble in the land owns a greater treasure of charms and images of
the Gods than he. To the present time he is the most pious of men,
and the offerings for the dead, which he brings in the name of his
late father, may be said to be positively kingly."

"We owe him gratitude for these gifts," said the treasurer, "and the
high honor he pays his father, even after his death, is exceptional
and far- famed."

"He emulates him in every respect," sneered Gagabu; "and though he
does not resemble him in any feature, grows more and more like him.

But unfortunately, it is as the goose resembles the swan, or the owl resembles the eagle. For his
father's noble pride he has overbearing haughtiness; for kindly severity, rude harshness; for
dignity, conceit; for perseverance, obstinacy. Devout he is, and we profit by his gifts. The treasurer
may rejoice over them, and the dates off a crooked tree taste as well as those off a straight
one. But if I were the Divinity I should prize them no higher than a hoopoe's crest; for He, who sees
into the heart of the giver-alas! what does he see! Storms and darkness are of the dominion of Seth,
and in there--in there--" and the old man struck his broad breast
"all is wrath and tumult, and there is not a gleam of the calm blue
heaven of Ra, that shines soft and pure in the soul of the pious;
no, not a spot as large as this wheaten-cake."

"Hast thou then sounded to the depths of his soul?" asked the haruspex.

"As

this beaker!" exclaimed Gagabu, and he touched the rim of an empty
drinking-vessel. "For fifteen years without ceasing.

The man has been of service to us, is so still, and will continue to be. Our leeches extract
salves from bitter gall and deadly poisons; and folks like these--"

"Hatred speaks in thee," said the haruspex, interrupting the indignant
old man.

"Hatred!" he retorted, and his lips quivered. "Hatred?" and he struck
his breast with his clenched hand. "It is true, it is no stranger to this
old heart. But open thine ears, O haruspex, and all you others too
shall hear. I recognize two sorts of hatred.

  

The one is between man and man; that I have gagged, smothered, killed,
annihilated--with what efforts, the Gods know. In past years I have
certainly tasted its bitterness, and served it like a wasp, which, though
it knows that in stinging it must die, yet uses its sting.

But now I am old in years, that is in knowledge, and I know that of all the powerful impulses which stir
our hearts, one only comes solely from Seth, one only belongs wholly to the Evil one and that is hatred between
man and man. Covetousness may lead to industry, sensual appetites may beget noble fruit, but hatred is a devastator,
and in the soul that it occupies all that is noble grows not upwards and towards the light, but
downwards to the earth and to darkness. Everything may be forgiven by the Gods, save only hatred
between man and man. But there is another sort of hatred that is pleasing to the Gods,
and which you must cherish if you would not miss their presence in your
souls; that is, hatred for all that hinders the growth of light and goodness
and purity--the hatred of Horus for Seth. The Gods would punish me if
I hated Paaker whose father was dear to me; but the spirits of darkness
would possess the old heart in my breast if it were devoid of horror
for the covetous and sordid devotee, who would fain buy earthly joys
of the Gods with gifts of beasts and wine, as men exchange an ass for a robe,
in whose soul seethe dark promptings. Paaker's gifts can no more be
pleasing to the Celestials than a cask of attar of roses would please
thee, haruspex, in which scorpions, centipedes, and venomous snakes
were swimming.

I have long led this man's prayers, and never have I heard him crave for noble gifts, but a thousand times
for the injury of the men he hates."
"In the holiest prayers that come down to us from the past," said
the haruspex, "the Gods are entreated to throw our enemies under our
feet; and, besides, I have often heard Paaker pray fervently for the
bliss of his parents." The moon holds a very important place to them, and the dates of
the new year and all their festivals are determined by its changes. We used to see one of our
boys standing, sometimes for hours together, with his arms folded, gazing into the moonlit
sky. When questioned as to what he was doing, he said he was "looking at the garden in the
moon," and listening to "hear the star-men sing."

This boy appeared to be a Shin worshipper. He made many drawings representing these spirits,
with astonishing facility and artistic skill, but, when pressed to explain them, said it was
not good to speak much about them. (7) Hence, those writers who assert that Judah's long absence from
his father's house took place before Joseph was sold, only seek to delude themselves and
to call in question the Scriptural authority which they are anxious
to protect.

Endnote 14. (1) "Dinah was scarcely seven years old when she was violated
by Schechem." (2) The opinion held by some that Jacob wandered about
eight or ten years between Mesopotamia and Bethel, savours of the
ridiculous; if respect for Aben Ezra, allows me to say so.

(3) For it is clear that Jacob had two reasons for haste: first,
the desire to see his old parents; secondly, and chiefly to perform,
the vow made when he fled from his brother (Gen. xxviii:10 and xxxi:13, and
xxxv:1).

(4) We read (Gen. xxxi:3), that God had commanded him to fulfill his vow,
and promised him help for returning to his country.

(5) If these considerations seem conjectures rather than reasons, I will
waive the point and admit that Jacob, more unfortunate than Ulysses,
spent eight or ten years or even longer, in this short journey.

(6) At any rate it cannot be denied that Benjamin was born in the last year
of this wandering, that is by the reckoning of the objectors, when
Joseph was sixteen or seventeen years old, for Jacob left Laban seven
years after Joseph's birth.

     (7) Now from the seventeenth year of Joseph's age till the patriarch
     went into Egypt, not more than twenty-two years elapsed, as we have
shown in this chapter. (8) Consequently Benjamin, at the time of the journey
to Egypt, was twenty-three or twenty- four at the most. (9) He would therefore
have been a grandfather in the flower of his age (Gen. xlvi:21, cf.

Numb. xxvi:38, 40, and 1 Chron. viii;1), for it is certain that Bela, Benjamin's
eldest son, had at that time, two sons, Addai and Naa-man. (10) This
is just as absurd as the statement that Dinah was violated at the age
of seven, not to mention other impossibilities which would result from
the truth of the narrative.

     (11) Thus we see that unskillful endeavours to solve difficulties, only
     raise fresh ones, and make confusion worse confounded.
     

Endnote 15. (1) "Othniel, son of Kenag, was judge for forty years."
(2) Rabbi Levi Ben Gerson and others believe that these forty years
which the Bible says were passed in freedom, should be counted from the
death of Joshua, and consequently include the eight years during
which the people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following
eighteen years must be added on to the eighty years of Ehud's and
Shamgar's judgeships.

     (3) In this case it would be necessary to reckon the other
     years of subjection among those said by the Bible to have been passed in
     freedom. (4) But the Bible expressly notes the number of years of subjection,
and the number of years of freedom, and further declares (Judges ii:18)
that the Hebrew state was prosperous during the whole time of the judges.
(5) Therefore it is evident that Levi Ben Gerson (certainly a very
learned man), and those who follow him, correct rather than interpret
the Scriptures.
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     (6) The same fault is committed by those
     
     who assert, that Scripture, by this general calculation of years, only intended
to mark the period of the regular administration of the Hebrew state,
leaving out the years of anarchy and subjection as periods of misfortune
and interregnum.

(7) Scripture certainly passes over in silence periods of anarchy, but
does not, as they dream, refuse to reckon them or wipe them out of
the country's annals.

(8) It is clear that Ezra, in 1 Kings vi., wished to reckon absolutely
all the years since the flight from Egypt.

     
     (9) This is so plain, that no one versed in the Scriptures can doubt it.
     (10) For, without going back to the precise words of the text, we
     may see that the genealogy of David given at the end of the book of Ruth,
and I Chron. ii., scarcely accounts for so great a number of years. (11)
For Nahshon, who was prince of the tribe of Judah (Numb. vii;11), two
years after the Exodus, died in the desert, and his son Salmon passed
the Jordan with Joshua.

     (12) Now this Salmon, according to the genealogy, was David's great-grandfather.
     (13) Deducting, then, from the total of 480 years, four years for Solomon's
     reign, seventy for David's life, and forty for the time passed in
the desert, we find that David was born 366 years after the passage
of the Jordan.
  THE FORTUNATE ISLAND.
  THE TIGHT SQUEEZE.

FORE AND AFT.

A Personal Narrative of Sea Experiences. By Robert B. Dixon. 16mo. Cloth. 320 pages. Price, $1.25.

     This is a book which, like the famous "Two Years Before the Mast,"
     interests young and old alike, and is decidedly pleasant reading to
     a sea-lover. All this by way of prelude to a protest against the exaggerative ecstasies
     indulged in by many civilians when discussing the air services. The British
     pilots are competent and daring, but they would be
the last to claim an undue share of war's glory.lization, which was produced (perhaps) under known
conditions, so that the conclusions which we arrive at from their study will have a fair chance
of being logical, at least, and perhaps of some practical value.

When we examine inanimate nature we find two grand divisions of matter, fluid and solid. These
two divisions may be subdivided into, the former gaseous and liquid, the latter amorphous and
crystalline; but whether one or the other of these divisions be considered,
their ultimate and common division will be the ATOM.

By the atom we understand that portion of matter which admits of no further division, which,
though as inconceivable for minuteness as space is for extent, has still definite weight,
form, and volume; which under favorable circumstances, has that power or force called cohesion,
the intensity of which constitutes strength of material, which every engineer is supposed to
understand, but which lies far beyond the powers of the human mind for comprehension or analysis. When
we apply a magnet to a mass of iron filings, we observe the particles
arrange themselves in regular order, having considerable strength
in one direction, and very little or none in any other.

  Now, although we understand very little about the force which holds
these particles in position, we do know that it is actual force applied
from without and maintained at the expense of some of the known sources
of force.

But the force or power or property of cohesion seems to be a quality stored within the atom
itself, in many cases similar to magnetism, having powerful attraction in some directions and very
little or none in others. A crystal of mica, for instance, or gypsum may be divided to any degree
of thinness, but is very difficult to even break. This property of crystals is termed cleavage.
Cohesion and crystallization are affected variously by various circumstances, such as heat or
its absence, motion or its absence, etc. In fact, almost every phenomenon
of nature within the range of ordinary temperatures has effects which
may be favorable to the crystallization of some substances, and at
the same time unfavorable to others; so it will be seen that it is
impossible to lay down any rule for it except for named substances,
like substances requiring like conditions, to bring its atoms into
that state of equilibrium where crystallization can occur.

If we examine crystals carefully we find, not only that nature has here provided geometric forms
of marvelous beauty and exactness, with faces of polish and quoins
of acuteness equal to the work of the most skillful lapidist, "but
that in whatever manner or under whatever circumstances a crystal
may have been formed, whether in the laboratory of the chemist or
the workshop of nature, in the bodies of animals or the tissues of
plants, up in the sky or in the depths of the earth, whether so rapidly
that we may literally see its growth, or by the slow aggregation of
its molecules during perhaps thousands of years, we always find that
the arrangement of the faces is subject to fixed and definite laws." The moon holds a very important place to them, and the dates of
the new year and all their festivals are determined by its changes. We used to see one of our
boys standing, sometimes for hours together, with his arms folded, gazing into the moonlit
sky. When questioned as to what he was doing, he said he was "looking at the garden in the
moon," and listening to "hear the star-men sing."

This boy appeared to be a Shin worshipper. He made many drawings representing these spirits,
with astonishing facility and artistic skill, but, when pressed to explain them, said it was
not good to speak much about them. The telegraph poles were thirty feet high; how was I to make
a connection with only eight feet of wire and no climbers? I thought for a while, and then
I put the instrument in my pocket, and undertook to "shin up" the pole as I used to do when
I was a schoolboy. After many efforts, in which I succeeded in tearing nearly all the clothes off
of me, I finally reached the lowest cross-arm, and seated myself
on it with my legs wrapped around the pole.

There was only one wire on this arm, so I had, comparatively speaking,
plenty of room.

On each of the other two cross arms there were four wires, and there
was also one strung along the tops of the poles.

This made ten wires in all, and I had not the least idea which one
was the despatcher's wire.

The pole being wet from the rain, made the wires mighty hot to handle.

I had the fireman hand me up a piece of old iron wire he happened to have on the engine, and
with this I made a flying cut in the third wire of the second cross
arm.

I attached the little pocket instrument, and found that upon adjusting
it, I was on a commercial wire.

     There I was, straddling a cross arm between heaven and earth, with
     the instrument held on my knee, and totally ignorant of any of the
calls or the wire I was on.

I yelled down to the conductor and asked him if he knew any of the
calls.

     No; of course he didn't; and he was so excited he didn't have sense
     enough to look on his time-card, where the calls are always
     printed.

Finally, after carefully adjusting the instrument, I opened my key,
broke in on somebody, and said "Wreck."

     The answer came, "Sine." I said, "I haven't any sine. No. 2
     on the C. K. & Q. has been wrecked out here, and I want the despatcher's
     office. Can you tell me if he is on this wire?"
     

     Now there is a vast deal of difference between sending with a Bunnell
     key on a polished table, and sending with a pocket instrument held
     on your knee, especially when you are perched on a thirty foot
     pole, with the rain pouring down in torrents, the wind blowing almost
     a gale, and expecting every minute to be blown off and have
     your precious neck broken. Consequently my sending was pretty
     "rocky," and some one came back at me with, "Oh! get out you big ham."
     But I hung to it and finally made them understand who I was
     and what I wanted.

The main office in Ouray cut me in on the despatcher's wire and I
told him of the wreck.

He said he had suspected that No. 2. was in trouble, but he had no
idea that it was as bad as I had reported.

     He said he would order out the wrecking outfit and would send doctors
     with it. Would I please stay close and do the telegraphing for them,
     he would see that I was properly rewarded. Then I told him about
     where I was, but promised to hold on as long as I could, but for
him to be sure and send out some more wire and a pair of climbers
on the wrecker.

     After waiting about an hour the wrecker arrived, and with it the doctors;
     so our anxiety was relieved, the wounded taken care of, and a decent
     wrecking office put in.

The division superintendent came out with them, and for my services
he offered me the day office at X----, which I accepted.

     
     
     CHAPTER IV
     
     A WOMAN OPERATOR WHO SAVED A TRAIN

     
     X---- was a pretty good sort of an office to have, barring a beastly
     climate wherein all four seasons would sometimes be ably and fully
     represented in one twenty-four hours.

But eighty big round American dollars a month was not to be sneezed
at--that was a heap of money to a young chap--and I hung on.

In those days civilization had not advanced as far westward as it is to-day, and there was not much
local business on the road, due to the sparsely settled country.

     The first office east of X---- was Dunraven, some twenty miles away.
     
  THE FORTUNATE ISLAND.
  THE TIGHT SQUEEZE.

FORE AND AFT.

A Personal Narrative of Sea Experiences. By Robert B. Dixon. 16mo. Cloth. 320 pages. Price, $1.25.

     This is a book which, like the famous "Two Years Before the Mast,"
     interests young and old alike, and is decidedly pleasant reading to
     a sea-lover. Sometimes, however, they alight on the edge of the cone--imparting
     to it a temporary brilliancy; but the mass of the cone, being composed
     of loose black cinders, has a most dismal aspect.
Another very active South American volcano is Rancagua in Chili.