Thus we find the Irish leaders, when proclaiming their  grievances, either on the eve of war,
or the signing of a treaty  of peace, always giving their religious convictions the first 
place on the list. The religious question, then, was becoming  more and more the question,
and, notwithstanding all her fine  assurances that she would not infringe upon the religious
predilections of the laity, Elizabeth's great purpose, in  Ireland and in England, was to destroy
Catholicity, by  destroying the priesthood, root and-branch.

The nobles showed how fully convinced they were of this, when  they carne to adopt a system
of concealment, even of duplicity,  to which Irishmen ought never to have been weak enough
to submit. Not only were the practices of their religion confined to  places where no Englishman
or Protestant could penetrate, but  gradually they allowed their houses--those sanctuaries
of  freedom--to be invaded by the pursuivants of the queen,  searching for priests or monks
"lately arrived from Rome."

Secret apartments were constructed by skilful architects in  noblemen's manors; recesses were
artfully contrived under the  roofs, in roomy staircases, or even in basements and cellars.
There the unfortunate minister of religion was confined for  weeks and months, creeping forth
only at night, to breathe the  fresh air at the top of the house or in the thick shrubbery
of  the adjoining park. All the means of evading the law used by the  Christians of the first
centuries were reproduced and resorted  to in Catholic Ireland by chieftains who possessed
the "secret  promise" of the queen that their religion should not be  interfered with, and
that her supremacy should not be enforced  against them.

Not thus did the people act: their keen sense of injustice took  in at once all the circumstances
of the case. It was a religious  persecution, nothing else; and this the nobles also felt in
their inmost souls. The people saw the ministers of religion  hunted down, seized, dragged
to prison, tried, convicted,  barbarously executed; they recognized it in its reality as a
sheer attempt to destroy Catholicity, and as such they opposed  it by every means in their
power. They beheld the monks and  friars treated as though they had been wild beasts; the soldiers
falling on them wherever they met them, and putting them to  death with every circumstance
of cruelty and insult, without  trial, without even the identification required for outlaws.
Mr.  Miles O'Reilly's book, "Irish Martyrs," is full of cases of this  kind. Hence the people
frequently offered open resistance to the  execution of the law; the soldiers had to disperse
the mob; but  the real mob was the very troop commanded by English officers.

When at length the Irish lords no longer dared offer asylum to  the outlawed priesthood in
their manors and castles, the hut of  the peasant lay open to them still. The greater the quantity
of  blood poured out by the executors of the barbarous laws, the  greater the determination
of the people to protect the oppressed  and save the Lord's anointed.

Then opened a scene which had never been witnessed, even under  the most cruel persecutions
of the tyrants of old Rome. The  whole strength of the English kingdom had been called into
play  to crush the Irish nobility during the wars of Ulster and  Munster; the whole police
of the same kingdom was now put in  requisition for the apprehension and destruction of church-men.
Nay, from this very occupation, the great police system which  since that time has flourished
in most European states, arose,  being invented or at least perfected for the purpose.

Then, for the first time in modern history, numbers of "spies"  and "informers" were paid for
the service of English ministers  of state. Not only did the cities of England and Ireland,
harbor  cities chiefly, swarm with them, but they covered the whole  country; they were to
be found everywhere: around the humble  dwelling of the peasant and the artisan, in the streets
and on  the highways, inspecting every stranger who might be a friar or  monk in disguise.
They spread through the whole European  Continent--along the coast and in the interior of France
and  Belgium, Italy and Spain, in the churches, convents, and  colleges, even in the courts
of princes, and, as we have seen in  the case of Dr. Hurley, in the very halls of the Vatican.
The  English state papers have disclosed their secret, and the whole  history is now before us. 	

To support this army of spies and informers, the soldiers of  that other army of England, who
were employed either in keeping  England under the yoke or in crushing freedom and religion
out  of Ireland, did not disdain to execute the orders which  converted them into policemen
and sbirri. And it may be said, to  their credit, that they executed those orders with a ferocious
alacrity unequalled in the annals of military life in other  countries. If, during the most
fearful commotions in France, the  army has been employed for a similar purpose, it must be
acknowledged that, as far as the troops were concerned, they  performed their unwelcome task
with reluctance, and softened  down, at least, their execution, by considerate manners and
respectful demeanor. But these soldiers of Elizabeth showed  themselves, from first to last,
full of ferocity. They generally  went far beyond the letter of their orders; they took an
inhuman  delight in adding insult to injury, uniting in their persons the  double character
of preservers of public order and ruffianly  executioners of innocent victims. Many and many
a record of  their barbarity is kept to this day. We add a few, only to  justify our necessarily
severe language:

"The Rev. Thaddeus Donald and John Hanly received their martyr's  crown on the 10th of August,
1580. They had long labored among  the suffering faithful along the southwestern coast of Ireland.
When the convent of Bantry was seized by the English troops,  these holy men received their
wished-for crown of martyrdom.  Being conducted to a high rock impending over the sea, they
were  tied back to back, and precipitated into the waves beneath."

"In the convent of Enniscorthy, Thaddeus O'Meran, father- guardian of the convent, Felix O'Hara,
and Henry Layhode, under  the government of Henry Wallop, Viceroy of Ireland, were taken  prisoners
by the soldiers, for five days tortured in various  ways, and then slain."

"Rev. Donatus O'Riedy, of Connaught, and parish priest of  Coolrah, when the soldiers of Elizabeth
rushed into the village,  sought refuge in the church; but in vain, for he was there  hanged
near the high altar, and afterward pierced with swords,  12th of June, 1582."

"While Drury was lord-deputy, about 1577, Fergal Ward, a  Franciscan, . . . fell into the hands
of the soldiery, and,  being scourged with great barbarity, was hanged from the  branches of
a tree with the cincture of his own religious habit."

In order to find a parallel to atrocities such as these, we must  go back to the record of
some of the sufferings of the early  martyrs--St. Ignatius of Antioch, for instance, who wrote
of the  guards appointed to conduct him to Italy: "From Syria as far as  Rome, I had to fight
with wild beasts, on sea and on land, tied  night and day to a pack of ten leopards, that is
to say, ten  soldiers who kept me, and were the more ferocious the more I  tried to be kind
to them."

Instances of such extreme cruelty are rare, even in the Acts of  the early martyrs, but they
meet us every moment in the memoirs  of the days of Elizabeth. Both the police-spies and the
soldier- police were animated with the rage and fury which must have  possessed the soul of
the queen herself; for, after all, the  cruelty practised in her reign, and mostly under her
orders, was  not necessary in order to secure her throne to her, during life;  and, as she
could hope for no posterity of her own, it was not  the desire of retaining the crown to her
children which could  excuse so much bloodshed and suffering. She evidently followed  the promptings
of a cruel heart in those atrocious measures  which constitute the feature of the home policy
of her reign.  The persecution which raged incessantly throughout her long  career, in Ireland
and England, is surely one of the most bloody  in the annals of the Catholic Church.

CHAPTER X.

ENGLAND PREPARED FOR THE RECEPTION OF PROTESTANTISM--IRELAND NOT.

It cost Elizabeth the greater part of her reign in time, and all  the growing resources of
a united England in material, to  establish her spiritual supremacy in Ireland; and yet, when,
at  her death, Mountjoy received orders to conclude peace on  honorable terms with the Ulster
chieftains, her darling policy  was abandoned; and failure, in fact, confessed.

On the 30th of March, 1603, Hugh O'Neill and Mountjoy met by  appointment at Mellifont Abbey,
where the terms of peace were  exchanged. O'Neill, having declared his submission, was granted
amnesty for the past, restored to his rank, notwithstanding his  attainder and outlawry, and
reinstated in his dignity of Earl of  Tyrone. Himself and his people were to enjoy the "full
and free  exercise of their religion;" new letters-patent were issued  restoring to him and
other northern chieftains almost the whole  of the lands occupied by their respective clans.

O'Neill, on his part, was to renounce forever his title of  "O'Neill," and allow English law
to prevail in his territory.

How this last condition could agree with the full and free  exercise of the Catholic religion,
the treaty did not explain;  but it is evident that the new acts of Parliament respecting 
religion were not to be included in the English law admitted by  the Ulster chiefs.

Meanwhile, the descendants of Strongbow's companions had been  completely subdued in the south,
Munster having been devastated,  and the Geraldines utterly destroyed. Yet, even there,  Protestantism
was not acknowledged by such of the inhabitants as  were left.

It may be well to compare here the different results which  attended the declaration of the
queen's supremacy in England and  Ireland:

At the commencement of Elizabeth's reign, England was still,  outwardly at least, as Catholic
as Ireland. Henry VIII. had only  aimed at starting a schism; the Protestantism established
under  Edward had been completely swept away during Mary's short reign.  Could Elizabeth only
have hoped to be acknowledged queen by the  Pope, there can be little doubt that, even for
political motives, she would have refrained from disturbing the peace of the  country for the
sake of introducing heresy. Religion was nothing  to her--the crown every thing.

It was not so easy a matter for her to establish heresy as for  Henry to introduce schism.
All the bishops of Henry's reign,  with the exception of Fisher, had renounced their allegiance
to  Rome, in order to please the sovereign; all the bishops of  Mary's nomination remained
faithful to Rome; and so difficult  was it to find somebody who should consecrate the new prelates
created by Elizabeth, that Catholic writers have, we believe,  shown beyond question that no
one of the intruding prelates was  really consecrated.

Nevertheless, at the end of Elizabeth's reign, there is no doubt  that the English people,
with a few individual exceptions, were  Protestant; and Protestants they have ever since remained.

In Dr. Madden's "History of the Penal Laws," we read "Father  Campian was betrayed by one of
Walsingham's spies, George Eliot,  and found secreted in the house of Mr. Yates, of Lyford,
in  Berkshire, along with two other priests, Messrs. Ford and  Collington. Eliot and his officers
made a show of their  prisoners to the multitude, and the sight of the priests in the  hands
of the constables was a matter of mockery to the unwise  multitude. This was a frequent occurrence
in conveying captured  priests from one jail to another, or from London to Oxford, or  vice
versa, and it would seem, instead of finding sympathy from  the populace, they met with contumely,
insult, and sometimes  even brutal violence. This is singular, and not easily accounted  for;
of the fact, there can be no doubt."

Dr. Madden probably considered that, within a few years after  the change of religion, the
English people ought to have shown  themselves as firm Catholics as did the Irish. But the
explanation of the contumely and violence is easy: it was an  English and not an Irish populace.
The first had altogether  forgotten the faith of their childhood, the second could not be 
brought to forsake it. The difficulty, in accounting for the  difference between them, is in
getting at its true cause; and to  us it seems that one of the chief causes was the difference
of  race.

The English upper classes, as a whole, were utterly indifferent  to religion; the one thing
which affected them, soul and body,  was their temporal interests, and, to judge by their ready
acquiescence in all the changes set forth at the commencement of  the last chapter, they would
as soon have turned Mussulmen as  Calvinists. The lower classes, at first merely passive, became
afterward possessed by a genuine fanaticism for the new creed  established by the Thirty-nine
Articles; so that, from that  period until quite recently--and the spirit still lives--an 
English mob was always ready to demolish Catholic chapels, and  establishments of any kind,
wherever the piety of a few had  succeeded in erecting such, however quietly.

It is evident from the facts mentioned that, prior even to that  extraordinary religious revolution
called the Reformation, the  Catholic faith did not possess a firm hold upon the English mind
and heart, whatever may have been the case in previous ages. It  is clear that even "the people"
in England were not ready to  submit to any sacrifice for the sake of their religion.

There is small doubt that Elizabeth foresaw this, and expected  but little opposition on the
part of the English nobility and  people to the changes she purposed effecting. Had she imagined
that the nation would have been ready to submit to any sacrifice  rather than surrender their
religion, she would at least have  been more cautious in the promulgation of her measures,
even  though she had determined to sever her kingdom from Rome. She  might have rested content
with the schism introduced by her  father, and this indeed would have sufficed for the carrying
out  of her political schemes.

But she knew her countrymen too well to accredit them with a 
religious devotion which, if they ever possessed, had long ago 
died out. She saw that England was ripe for heresy, and the 
result confirmed her worldly sagacity. How came it, then, that 
the change which was absolutely impossible in Ireland, was so 
easily effected in the other country? Or, to generalize the 
question: How is it that, to speak generally, the nations of 
Northern Europe embraced Protestantism so readily, while those 
of Southern Europe refused to receive it, or were only slightly 
affected by it? Ranke has remarked that, when, after the first 
outbreak in the North, the movement had reached a certain point 
in time and space, it stopped, and, instead of advancing further,
 appeared to recede, or at least stood still.

Many Protestant writers have attempted a weak and flippant  solution of the question, and we
are continually told of the  superior enlightenment of the northern races, of their  attachment
to liberty, of their higher civilization, and other  very fine and very easily-quoted things
of the same kind, which,  at the present moment, are admitted as truths by many, and  esteemed
as unanswerable explanations of the phenomenon.  According to this opinion, therefore, the
southern races were  more ignorant, less civilized, more readily duped by priestcraft  and
kingcraft; above all, readier to bow to despotism, and  indifferent to freedom.

Catholic writers, Balmez principally, have often given a  satisfactory answer to the question;
yet, the replies which they  have made to the various sophisms touched upon, have seemingly
produced no effect on the modern masses, who continue steadfast  in their belief of what has
been so often refuted. It would be  presumptuous and probably quite useless, on our part, to
enter  into a lengthened discussion of the question. But, when confined  to England, it is
a kind of test to be applied to all those  subjects of civilization and liberty, and is so
clear and true  that it cannot leave the least room for doubt or hesitation:  moreover, as
it necessarily enters into the inquiry which forms  the heading of this chapter, it cannot
be entirely laid aside.

All that we purpose doing is, discovering why the northern  nations fell a prey more readily
to the disorganizing doctrines  of Protestantism than the southern. The general fickleness
of  the human mind, which is so well brought out by the great  Spanish writer, does not strike
us as a sufficient cause; for  the mind of southern peoples is certainly not less fickle, on
many points at least, than that of other races.

In our comparison between the North and the South, we class the  Irish with the latter, although,
geographically, they belong to  the former, and, indeed, constitute the only northern nation
which remained faithful to the Church.

First, let us state the broad facts for which we wish to assign  some satisfactory reasons.

After the social convulsions which attended the change of  religion had subsided somewhat,
it was found that Protestantism  had invaded the three Scandinavian kingdoms, to the almost
total  exclusion of Catholicism, to such an extent, indeed, that, until  quite recently, it
was death or transportation for any person  therein to return to the bosom of the mother Church.

The same statement is true, to almost the same extent, of  Northern Germany, where open persecution,
or rather war, raged  until the establishment of "religious peace" toward 1608. Saxony, whence
the heresy sprang, was its centre and stronghold in  Germany; and the Saxons were Scandinavians,
having crossed over  from the southern-borders of the Baltic, where, for a long time,  they
dwelt in constant intercourse with the Danes, Norwegians,  and Swedes.

Saxon and Norman England was found to be, at the end of the  sixteenth century, almost entirely
Protestant, and the  persecution of the comparatively few Catholics who survived  flourished
therein full vigor.

A singular phenomenon presented itself in the Low Countries.  That portion of them subsequently
known as Holland, which was  first invaded and peopled by the Northmen of Walcheren, became
almost entirely Protestant, while Belgium, which was originally  Celtic, remained Catholic.

Bavaria, Austria, and Switzerland, were divided between  Protestantism and Catholicity, and
the division exists to this  day.

In France a section only of the nobility, which was originally  Norman as well as Frank, and
under feudalism had become  thoroughly permeated by the northern spirit, was found to have
embraced the new doctrines, which were repudiated by the people  of Celtic origin. It is true
that, later on, the Cevennes  mountaineers received Protestantism from the old Waldenses; but
we are presenting a broad sketch, and do not deny that several  minor lineaments may not fall
in with the general picture.

In Italy only literary men, in Spain a few rigorist prelates and  monks, showed any inclination
toward the "reform" party.

On the whole, then, it is safe to conclude that the Scandinavian  mind was congenial to Protestantism.

We say the Scandinavian mind, because the Scandinavian race  extended, not only through Scandinavia
proper, but also through  Northern Germany, along the Baltic Sea and German Ocean; through
Holland by Walcheren; through a portion of Central and Southern  Germany, as far down as Switzerland,
which was invaded by Saxons  at the time of Charlemagne, and after him, until Otto the Great
gave them their final check, and subdued them more thoroughly  than the great Charles had succeeded
in doing.

Common opinion traces the Scandinavians and Germans back to the  same race. In the generic
sense, this is true; and all the Indo- Germanic nations may have originally belonged to the
same parent  stock; but, specifically, differences of so striking a nature  present themselves
in that immense branch of the human family,  that the existence of sub-races of a definite
character,  presupposing different and sometimes opposite tendencies, must  be admitted.

Who can imagine that the Germans proper are identical with the  Hindoos, although by language
they, in common with the greater  part of European nations, may belong to the same parent stock?
In like manner, the Germanic tribes, although possessing many  things in common with the Scandinavian
race, differ from it in  various respects.

The best ethnographic writers admit that the Scandinavian race,  which they, in our opinion
improperly, name Gothic, differed  greatly in its language from the Teutonic. The language
of the  first, retained in its purity in Iceland to this day, soon  became mixed up with German
proper in Denmark, Sweden, and even  in Norway to a great extent. The languages differed therefore
originally, as did, consequently, the races. Even at this very  moment an effort is being made
by Scandinavians to establish the  difference between themselves and the Teutons with respect
to  language and nationality.

How far the religion of both was identical is a difficult  question. We believe it very probable
that the worship of Thor,  Odin, and Frigga, was purely Scandinavian, and penetrated  Germany,
as far as Switzerland, with the Saxons. Hertha,  according to Tacitus, was the supreme goddess
of the Germans.  She had no place in Scandinavian mythology. Ipsambul, so  renowned among the
Teutons, was quite unknown in Scandinavia.  The Germans, in common with the Celts, considered
the building  of temples unworthy the Deity; whereas, the Scandinavian temples, chiefly the
monstrous one of Upsala, are well known. Many other  such facts might be brought out to show
the difference of their  religions.

The Germans showed themselves from the beginning attached to a  country life; and we know how
the Frankish Merovingian kings  loved to dwell in the country. The Scandinavians only cared
for  the sea, and manifested by their skill in navigation how they  differed from the Germans,
who were less inclined even than the  Celts for large naval expeditions.

All this is merely given as strong conjecture, not as proof  positive amounting to demonstration,
of the real difference  between the two races--the Germanic and Scandinavian.

But how was Protestantism congenial to the Scandinavian mind?  This second question is of still
greater importance than the  first.

In the earlier portion of the book, we passed in review the  character of the tribes, once
clustered around the Baltic, with  the exception of the Finns, who dwelt along the eastern
coast;  and, grounding our opinion on unquestionable authorities, we  found that character
to consist mainly of cruelty, boldness,  rapacity, system, and a spirit of enterprise in trade
and  navigation.

When they embraced Christianity, it undoubtedly modified their  character to a great extent,
and many holy people lived among  them, some of whom the Church has numbered among the saints.
But  the conquest of these ferocious pirates was undoubtedly the  greatest triumph ever achieved
by the holy Spouse of Christ.

Yet, even after becoming Christian, they preserved for a Iong  time--we speak not now of the
present day--deep features of  their former character, among others the old spirit of rapacity,
and that systematic boldness which, when occasion demands, is  ever ready to intrench upon
the rights of others. They soon  displayed, also, a general tendency to subject spiritual matters
to individual reason, and the great among them to interfere and  meddle with religious affairs.
The Dukes of Normandy, the Kings  of England, and the Saxon Emperors of Germany, seldom ceased
disputing the rights of spiritual authority; and the learned  among them were forward to question
the supremacy of Rome in  many things, and to argue against what other people, more  religiously
inclined, would have admitted without controversy.  That spirit of speculation, to which the
Irish Four Masters  partly ascribed the introduction of Protestantism into England,  was rampant
in the schools of these northern nations, when a  superior civilization gave rise to the erection
of universities  and colleges in their midst.

But over and above that systematic philosophical spirit, their  character was deeply imbued
with a material rapacity which,  after all, has always constituted the great vice of those
northern tribes. It is unnecessary to remind the reader that, in  England chiefly, Protestantism
was particularly grateful to the  avaricious longings of the courtiers of Henry VIII. and 
Elizabeth. The confiscation of ecclesiastical property and its  distribution among the great
of the nation was the chief  incentive which moved them to adopt the convenient doctrines of
the new order, and subvert the old religion of the country. This  rapacious spirit showed itself
also in Germany, though not so  conspicuously as in England; and certainly, in both countries,
the universal confiscation of the estates of religious houses,  and the robbery of the plate
and jewels of the churches, are  prominent features in the history of the great Reformation.

William Cobbett has written eloquently on this subject, and  marshalled an immense array of
facts so difficult of denial that  the defenders of Protestantism were compelled to resort
to the  petty subterfuge of retorting that the great English radical was  a mere partisan,
who never spoke sincerely, but always supported  the theory he happened to take up by exaggerated
and distorted  facts, which no one was bound to admit on his responsibility.  Such was their
reply; but the awkward facts remained and remain  still unchallenged.

But, since Cobbett, men who could not be accused of partisanship  and exaggeration have published
authentic accounts of the  unbounded rapacity of the Reformers of the sixteenth century, in
England particularly, which all impartial men are bound to  respect, and not attribute to any
unworthy motive, since they  are supported even by Protestant authorities. We quote a few,
taken from the "History of the Penal Laws" by Dr. R. R. Madden:

"The Earl of Warwick, afterward Duke of Northumberland, was the  first of the aristocracy in
England who inveighed publicly  against the superfluity of episcopal habits, the expense of
vestments and surplices, and ended in denouncing altars and the  'mummery' of crucifixes, pictures
and images in churches.

"The earl had an eye to the Church plate, and the precious  jewels that ornamented the tabernacles
and ciboriums. Many  courtiers soon were moved by a similar zeal for religion--a lust  for
the gold, silver, and jewels of the churches. In a short  time, not only the property of churches,
but the possession of  rich bishopries and sees, were shared among the favorites of  Cranmer
and the protector (Somerset): as were those of the See  of Lincoln, 'with all its manors, save
one;' the Bishoprie of  Durham, which was allotted to Dudley, Duke of Northumberland; of  Bath
and Wells, eighteen or twenty of whose manors in Somerset,  were made a present of to the protector,
with a view of  protecting the remainder."

A number of similar details are to be found in the pages of the  same author.

Dr. Heylin, a Protestant, says: "That the consideration of  profit did advance this work--of
the Reformation--as much as any  other, if perchance not more, may be collected from an inquiry
made two years after, in which (inquiry) it was to be  interrogated: `What jewels of gold,
or silver crosses,  candlesticks, censers, chalices, copes, and other vestments,  were then
remaining in any of the cathedral or parochial  churches, or, otherwise, had been embezzled
or taken away? '. . . The leaving," adds Dr. Heylin, "of one chalice to every church,  with
a cloth or covering for the communion-table, being thought  sufficient. The taking down of
altars by command, was followed  by the substitution of a board, called the Lord's Board, and
subsequently of a table, by the determination of Bishop Ridley.

"Many private persons' parlors were hung with altar-cloths,  their tables and beds covered
with copes, instead of carpets and  coverlets, and many made carousing cups of the sacred chalices,
as once Belshazzar celebrated his drunken feasts in the  sanctified vessels of the Temple.
It was a sorry house, not  worth the naming, which had not something of this furniture in 
it, though it were only a fair large cushion made of a cope or  altar-cloth, to adorn their
windows, and to make their chairs  appear to have somewhat in them of a chair of state."

Could such scenes as these have been surpassed by what took  place during the ninth, tenth,
and eleventh centuries, in the  rude towns of Norway and Denmark, at the return of a powerful
seakong, with his large fleet, from a piratical excursion into  Southern Europe, when the spoils
of many a Christian church and  wealthy house went to adorn the savage dwellings or those 
barbarians? Adam of Bremen relates how he saw, with his own eyes, the rich products of European
art and industry accumulated in  the palace of the King of Denmark, and in the loathsome  dwellings
of the nobility, or exposed for sale in the public  markets of the city.

But rapacity formed only one characteristic of the Scandinavians; the mind of the people, moreover,
showed itself,  notwithstanding the intricate and monstrous mythology which it  had created
when pagan, of a rationalistic and anti-supernatural  tendency. Their mind was naturally systematic
and reasoning; it  discussed spiritual matters in all their material aspects, and  thus gave
rise to those speculations which soon became the  source of heresy. Hence, in England and the
north of Germany,  the power of Rome was always called in question; and as the  English mind
was altogether Scandinavian, while that of the  Germans was mixed with more of a southern disposition,
the chief  trouble in Germany, between the empire and the Roman Church, lay  in the question
of investitures, which combined a material and  spiritual aspect, whereas, in England, the
quarrel was almost  invariably of a pecuniary nature, as, for instance, Peter's  pence.

Even in the most Catholic times, the English made a bitter  grievance of the levying of Peter's
pence among them, and of the  giving of English benefices to prelates of other nations, which
also resolved itself into a question of revenue or money. And so  characteristic was the grievance
of the whole nation that it was  restricted to no class, churchmen and monks being as loud
in  their denunciations of Rome as the king and the nobles; and thus  the theological questions
of the papal supremacy and of  ecclesiastical authority generally took with them quite a  material
form. The diatribes of the Benedictine monk Matthew  Paris are well known, and their worldly
spirit can only excite  in us pity that they should have been the chief cause of the  destruction
of his own order in England and Ireland, and of the  total spoliation of the religious houses
in whose behalf he  imagined that he wrote.

If the harms done by those contemptible wranglings about Peter's  pence and benefices had been
confined to depriving the  pontifical exchequer of a revenue which was cheerfully granted 
by other nations to aid the Father of the Faithful, the result  was to be regretted; but, after
all, Christendom would not have  suffered in a much more sensible quarter. But in England the
question passed immediately to the election of bishops and  abbots, and thus the opposition
to Rome gradually assumed much  vaster proportions.

The nation, also, in the main, sided with the kings against the  popes. Every burgher of London,
York, or Canterbury, got it into  his head that Rome had formed deep designs of spoliation
against  his private property, and purposed diving deep into his private  purse. In such a
state of public opinion, respect for spiritual  authority could not fail to diminish and finally
die out  altogether; and, when the voice of the Pontiff was heard on  important subjects in
which the best interests of the nation  were involved, even the clearest proof that Rome was
right, and  desired only the good of the people, could not entirely dispel  the suspicious
fears and distrusts which must ever lurk in the  mind of the miser against those he imagines
wish to rob him.

It is not possible to enter here into further details, but, if  the reader wish for stronger
proofs of the "questioning spirit,"  "reasoning mistrust," and "systematic doggedness," natural
to  the Scandinavian mind, he has only to reflect on what took place  in England at the time
of the Reformation. Every question  respecting the soul, every supernatural aspiration of the
Christian, every emotion of a living conscience, appears to be  altogether absent from all
those English nobles, prelates,  theologians, learned university men, even simple priests and
monks often, save a very few who, with the noble Thomas More,  thought that "twenty years of
an easy life could not without  folly be compared with an eternity of bliss." The reasoning
faculty of the mind, nourished on "speculations," had replaced  faith, and, every thing of
the supernatural order being  obliterated, nothing was left but worldly wisdom and material
aspirations for temporal well-being.

By reviewing other characteristics of the Scandinavian race, we  might arrive at the same conclusion;
but our space forbids us to  go into them. After what has been said, however, it is easy to
see how well prepared was the English nation for accepting the  change of religion almost without
a murmur.

There was, indeed, some expression of indignation on the part of  the people at the beginning
of the reign of Edward VI., when the  desecration of the churches began. "Various commotions,"
says Dr. Madden, "took place in consequence of the reviling of the  sacrament, the casting
it out of the churches in some places,  the tearing down of altars and images; in one of which
tumults,  one of the authorities was stabbed, in the act of demolishing  some objects of veneration
in a church.

"The whole kingdom, in short, was in commotion, but particularly  Devonshire and Norfolk. In
the former county, the insurgents  besieged Devon; a noble lord was sent against them, and,
being,  reenforced by the Walloons--a set of German mercenaries brought  over to enable the
government to carry out their plans--his  lordship defeated these insurgents, and many were
executed by  martial law."

But this remnant of affection for the religion of their fathers  seems to have soon died out,
since at the death of Edward the  people appeared to have become thoroughly converted to the
new  doctrines. At the very coronation of Mary, a Catholic clergyman  having prayed for the
dead and denounced the persecutions of the  previous reign, a tumult took place; the preacher
was insulted,  and compelled to leave the pulpit. What wonder, then, that, at  the death of
Elizabeth, England was thoroughly Protestant?

We are very far from ignoring the noble examples of attachment  to their religion displayed
by Christian heroes of every class  in England during those disastrous days. The touching 
biographies of the English martyrs, told in the simple pages of  Bishop Challoner, cannot be
read without admiration. The feeling  produced on the Catholic reader is precisely that arising
from a  perusal of the Acts of the Christian martyrs under the Roman  emperors, which have
so often strengthened our faith and drawn  tears of sorrow from our eyes. At this moment, particularly
when  so many details, hitherto hidden, of the lives of Catholics,  religious, secular priests,
laymen, women, during those times,  are coming to light in manuscripts religiously preserved
by  private families, and at last being published for the  edification of all, the story is
moving as well as inspiring of  the heroism displayed by them, not only on the public scaffold,
but in obscure and loathsome jails, in retreats and painful  seclusion, continuing during long
years of an obscure life, and  ending only in a more obscure death, when the victim of  persecution
was fortunate enough to escape capture. There is no  doubt that, when the whole story of the
hunted Catholics in  England shall be known, as moving a narrative of their virtues  will be
written as can be furnished by the ecclesiastical annals  of any people.

Nevertheless, what has been said of the nation, as a nation,  remains a sad fact which cannot
be doubted. Those noble  exceptions only prove that the promptings of race are not  supreme,
and that God's grace can exalt human nature from  whatever level.

How different were the nations of the Latin and Celtic stock!  With them the attachment to
the religion of their fathers was  not the exception, but the rule, and it is only necessary
to  bear in mind what the Abbe McGeoghegan has said--that, at the  death of Elizabeth, scarcely
sixty Irishmen, take them all in  all, had professed the new doctrines--in order at once to
comprehend the steady tendency toward the path of duty imparted  by true nobility of blood.
Nor did the Irish stand alone in this  steadfastness; it is needless to call to mind how the
people  generally throughout France, and particularly in Paris, acted at  the time when the
Huguenot noblemen would have rooted in the  soil the errors planted there before, and already
bearing fruit  in Germany, Switzerland, and England.

It looks as though we had lost sight of the interesting question  proposed at the outset, and
of which so far not a word has been  said--whether Protestantism spread so readily in the North,
because it found that region peopled with races better disposed  for civilization, if not taking
the lead already in that respect, and men ardent for freedom and impatient of servitude of
any  kind. We stated that the solution of this question, particularly  in the case of England,
is clear, and consequently not to be  discarded on account of previous solutions of the same
question,  which have scarcely met with any attention from the adverse side.

One thing certainly undeniable is, that neither in its origin,  nor even in its consequences,
can Protestantism be esteemed as  in any sense the promoter of freedom and civilization in
the  British islands.

It has always struck us as strange that sensible men, acquainted  with history, could maintain
that an aspiration after freedom  and a higher civilization gave to Germany and England a leaning
toward Protestantism. We can understand how the state of Europe  in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries may give a coloring  to the statement of a partisan writer, desirous of explaining
in  these modern times the greater amount of freedom really enjoyed  in England, and the advanced
material prosperity visible  generally among Protestant Northern nations. So much we can  understand.
But, to make Protestantism the origin of freedom and  civilization, and ascribe to it what
happened subsequent to its  spread indeed, but what really resulted from very different  causes,
passes our comprehension.

As far as freedom goes, the most superficial reader must know  that there was not a particle
of it left in England when  Protestantism commenced; and it were easy to show that there was
less of it in Germany than in Italy, Spain, and even France.

Who can mention English freedom in the same breath with Henry  and Elizabeth Tudor? How could
the actions of those two members  of the family advance it in the least degree, and was it
not  precisely the slavish disposition of the English people at the  time which prepared them
so admirably for the reception of  German heresy? The people were treated like a set of slaves,
and  stood for nothing in the designs of those great political rulers. In the very highest
of the aristocracy, there lingered not a  spark of the old brave spirit which wrung Magna Charta
from the  heart of a weak sovereign. The king or queen could fearlessly  trample on every privilege
of the nobility, send the proudest  lords of the nation to the block, almost without trial,
and  confiscate to the swelling of the royal purse the immense  estates of the first English
families. There is no need of  proofs for this. The proofs are the records, the headings, as
it  were, of the history of the times which one may read as he runs;  it constitutes the very
essence of their history; and events of  the sixteenth century in England scarcely present
us with any  thing else. This state of things was the natural result of the  general anarchy
which prevailed during the "Wars of the Roses."

A more interesting and intricate question still might be raised  here: how to explain the appearance
of such a phenomenon in so  proud a nation? Had the Catholic religion, which, up to that  time,
had been the only religion of the country, anything to do  with the matter? These questions
might furnish material for a  very animated discussion. But, with regard to the fact itself--
the slavish disposition of Englishmen at that time under kingly  and queenly rule--no doubt
can possibly exist.

To show that Catholicity had nothing to do with the introduction  of such a despotism, would
give rise to a dissertation too long  for us to enter upon. We merely offer a few suggestions,
which,  we think, will prove sufficient and satisfactory for our purpose  to every candid reader:

I. Catholic theology had certainly never brought about such a  state of affairs. In all Catholic
schools of the day, in England  as on the Continent, St. Thomas was the great authority, and
his  work, "De Regimine Principum," was in the hands of all Catholic  students. Luther was
the first to reject St. Thomas.

In this book, all were taught that, if, among the various kinds  of government, "that of a
king is best," in the opinion of the  author, "that of a tyrant is the worst." And a tyrant
he defines  as "any ruler who despises the common good, and seeks his  private advantage."

In that book of the great doctor, all may read: "The farther the  government recedes from the
common weal, the more unjust is it.  It recedes farther from the common weal in an oligarchy,
in  which the welfare of a few is sought, than in a democracy, whose  object is the good of
the many. . . . But farther still does it  recede from the common weal in a tyrannous government,
by which  the good of one alone is sought."

The general consequence which St. Thomas draws from this  doctrine is, that, "if a ruler governs
a multitude of freemen  for the common good of the multitude, the government will be  good
and just as becomes freemen."

Such was the political doctrine taught in the Catholic  universities of Europe until the sixteenth
century; but, in all  probability, this golden work, "De Regimine Principum," was no  longer
the text-book in the English schools of the time of Henry  Tudor.

But, when, entering into details, the holy and learned author  goes on to contrast the contrary
effects produced by freedom and  despotism on a nation, how could Henry willingly permit the
circulation of such words as the following?

"It is natural that men brought under terror" (a tyrannical  government) "should degenerate
into beings of a slavish  disposition, and become timid and incapable of any manly and  daring
enterprise--an assertion which is proved by the conduct  of countries which have been long
subjected to a despotic  government. Solomon says: 'When the imperious are in power, men  hide
away' in order to escape the cruelty of tyrants, nor is it  astonishing; for a man governing
without law, and according to  his own caprice, differs in nothing from a beast of prey. Hence,
Solomon designates an impious ruler as a roaring lion and a  ravenous bear.'

"Because, therefore, the government of one is to be preferred -- which is the best--and because
this government is liable to  degenerate into tyranny--which has been proved to be the worst
-- hence, the most diligent care is to be taken so to regulate the  establishment of a king
over the people, that he may not fall  into tyranny."

Finally, St. Thomas epitomizes the doctrines of this whole book  in his "Summa," as follows:
"A tyrannical government is unjust,  being administered, not for the common good, but for the
private  good of the ruler; therefore, its overthrow is not sedition,  unless when the subversion
of tyranny is so inordinately pursued  that the multitude suffers more from its overthrow than
from the  existence of the government."

The subject might be illustrated by any quantity of extracts  from the writings of other great
theologians of the middle ages;  but what we have said is enough for our purpose. It is manifest
that Catholic doctrine cannot have brought about the state of  England under the Tudors.

II. Another, and a very important suggestion, is the following:  it certainly was not the Catholic
hierarchy, least of all the  pontifical power, which produced it.

Whatever may have been written derogatory to the institutions  existing in Europe during the
mediaeval period, several great  facts, most favorable to the Catholic religion, have been
commonly admitted by Protestant writers, from which we select  two. The first of these was
originally stated by M. Guizot, in  his "Civilization in Europe," namely, that the kingdom
of France  was created by Christian bishops. Since that first admission,  other non-Catholic
writers have gone further, and have felt  compelled to admit that, as a general rule, the modern
European  nations have all been created, nurtured, fostered, by Catholic  bishops, and that
the first free Parliaments of those nations  were, in fact, "councils of the Church," either
of a purely  clerical character and altogether free from the intermixture of  lay elements,
such as the Councils of Toledo, in Spain, or  acting in concert with the representatives of
the various  classes in the nations.

The clergy, as all readers know, the clerks, were the first to  take the lead in civil affairs,
being more enlightened than the  other classes, and holding in their body all the education
of  the earlier times. It is unnecessary to add to this fact that,  among really Christian
people, the voice of religion is listened  to before all others. And is it not to-day a well-ascertained
fact that, in the main, the influence exerted by the clergy on  the formation of modern European
kingdoms was in favor of a well- regulated freedom based on the first law--the law of God--that
primal source of true liberty and civilization? To the clergy,  certainly, and to the monks,
is chiefly due the abolition of  slavery; and the bishops took a very active and prominent
part  in the movements of the communes, to which the Third Estate owes  its birth.

A malignant ingenuity has been displayed by many writers, in  ransacking the pages of history,
in order to fasten on certain  prelates of the Church charges of despotism and oppression.
But,  apart from the fact that the narratives so carefully compiled  have, in many cases, turned
out to be perversions of the truth,  and granting even that all these allegations are impartial
and  true, the general tenor and tendency of the history of those  times is now admitted to
be ample refutation of such accusations, and impartial writers confess that the ecclesiastical
influence, during those ages, was clearly set against the oppression of  the people, and finally
resulted in the formation of those  representative and moderate governments which are the boast
of  the present age; and that the principles enunciated by the great  schoolmen, led by Thomas
Aquinas, founded the order of society  on justice, religion, and right. The more history is
studied  honestly, investigated closely, and viewed impartially, the more  plainly does the
great fact shine forth that the Catholic  hierarchy, in the various European nations, constituted
the  vanguard of true freedom and order.

With regard to the papal power, it is a curious instance of the  reversal of human judgment,
and a very significant fact, that  those very Popes who, a hundred years ago, were looked upon,
even by Catholic writers, as the embodiment of supercilious  arrogance and sacrilegious presumption,
namely, Gregory VII.,  Innocent III., and Boniface VIII., are now acknowledged to have  been
the greatest benefactors to Europe in their time, and true  models of supreme Christian bishops.

But, if these two facts be admitted, the question recurs, How is  it that the governments of
several kingdoms, and that of England  in particular, had, during the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries, merged into complete and unalloyed despotism? As our present  interest in the question
is restricted to England, we confine  ourselves to that country, and proceed to treat of it
in a few  words.

Under the Tudors, the government grew to be altogether  irresponsible, personal, and despotic,
chiefly because under  previous reigns, and constantly since the establishment of the  Norman
line of kings, the authority of Rome, which formed the  only great counterpoise to kingly power
at the time, had been  gradually undermined, while the bishops, being deprived of the  aid
of the supreme Pontiff, had become mere tools in the hands  of the monarchs.

The particular shape which the opposition to Rome took in  England, compared with a similar
opposition in Germany, has been  already touched upon; it was found to be involved chiefly
in the  question of tribute-money and benefices, the latter being also  reduced to a money
difficulty. It was seen that the monks and  the people sided generally with the kings, and
gradually took a  dislike and mistrust to every thing coming from Rome; the  authority of the
monarch, though not precisely strengthened  thereby, was left without the control of a superior
tribunal to  direct him, and consequently the kings, if they chose, were left  to follow the
impulse of their own caprice, which, according to  St. Thomas, forms the characteristic of tyranny.

Other causes, doubtless, contributed to pave the way for and  consolidate the despotism of
the Kings of England. Among such  causes may be mentioned the extraordinary successes which
attended the English arms, led by their warrior kings in France,  and the frightful convulsions
subsequently arising from the Wars  of the Roses; but we doubt not the one mentioned above
was the  chief, and, of itself, would in the long-run have brought about  the same result.

Protestantism, therefore, was neither the growth of freedom in  England, nor did it plant freedom
there at its introduction,  inasmuch as the royal power became more absolute than ever by 
its predominance, and by the first principle which it laid down,  that the king was supreme
in Church as well as in state. Can its  origin in England, then, be accounted for by the existence
of a  higher civilization, anterior to it in point of time, out of  which it grew, or, at least,
by a true aspiration toward such.

This question is as easy of solution as the first: There can be  no doubt that the nations
which remained either entirely or in  the main faithful to the Church, in point of learning
and  civilization, ranked far beyond the Northern nations, where  heresy so early found a permanent
footing, and that in the South  also the tendencies toward a higher civilization were at that
time of a most marked and extraordinary character, so much so  that the reign of Leo X. has
become a household phrase to  express the perfection of culture.

England, as a nation, was at that period only just beginning to  emerge from barbarism, and
in fact was the last of the European  nations to adopt civilized customs and manners in the
political,  civil, and social relations of life.

In politics she was, until that epoch, plunged in frightful  dynastic revolutions, and as yet
had not learned the first  principles of good government. In civil affairs, her code was  the
most barbarous, her feudal customs the most revolting, her  whole history the most appalling
of all Christendom. In social  habits, she had scarcely been able to retain a few precious
fragments of good old Catholic times; and the fearful scenes  through which the nation had
passed, which, according to J. J.  Rousseau, for once expressing the truth, render the reading
of  that period of her history almost impossible to a humane man,  had sunk her almost completely
in degradation. The reader will  understand that the England here spoken of is the England
of  three centuries ago, and not of to-day.

If by civilization is understood learning and the fine arts,  what, in general phrase, is expressed
by culture and refinement,  how could England compare at the time with Italy, Flanders,  Spain,
France, all Latin or Celtic nations? How can it be  pretended that she was better fitted for
the reception of a more  spiritual and elevating religion than any of the countries  mentioned?

Two great names may be brought forward as proving that the  expressions used are harsh and
ill-founded--Shakespeare and  Milton; a third, Bacon, we omit for reasons which our space 
forbids us to give.

Shakespeare, whose name may rank with those of Homer and Dante,  was not a product of those
times. He was a gift of Heaven. At  any other epoch he would have been as great, perhaps greater.
What he received from his surroundings and from the  "civilization" with which he was blessed,
he has handed down to  us in the uncouth form, the intricacy of plot and adventures,  which
would have rendered barbarous a poet less naturally gifted. And, although the question has
never been definitely settled,  it is probable that he was born and lived a Catholic; and it
is  strange how Elizabeth, who, tradition tells us, was present at  some of his plays, could
endure his faithful portrayal of friars  and nuns, while she was persecuting their originals
so  barbarously at the time; strangest of all, how she could bear to  look upon the true and
noble image of Katherine of Aragon, whom  Henry in his good moment pronounces "the queen of
earthly queens, " contrasted with her own mother, to whom the shrewd old court  lady tells
the story:

"There was a lady once ('tis an old story), That would not be a  queen, that would she not,
For all the mud in Egypt :--Have you  heard it?"

Thus did Shakespeare contrast Elizabeth's wanton mother with the  noble woman whom Henry discarded
for a toy. And some critics can  only find a reason for the composition of the "Merry Wives
of  Windsor" and the "Sonnets" as an offering to the lewd queen.  Nothing more did he owe to
his time.

And Milton, who, though his father was a Catholic, was himself a  rank Puritan, something of
what we have said of Shakespeare may  be said of him. At all events, all his cultivation and
taste  came from Italy. The poets of that really civilized country had  polished his uncouth
nature, as it were in spite of itself, and  added to the depth of his wonderful genius the
beauty and soft  harmony of verse that ever flowed freely, and the strength of a  nervous and
sonorous prose.

Now comes the question: If the origin of Protestantism in  England cannot be attributed to
freedom and civilization, may it  not, at least, be maintained that the natural result of 
Protestantism was the acquisition of true freedom and of a  higher civilization? Is it not
true that to-day Protestant  nations are in advance of others in both these respects? And to
what other cause can such advancement be ascribed than to the  "reformed religion?" Is it not
the freedom which has come to the  human mind, after the rejection of the yoke of spiritual
authority, and the proclamation of the rights of individual  reason, that has brought about
the present advanced state of  affairs

We know all these fine-sounding phrases which are so  continuously dinned into our ears, and
republished day after day  in a thousand forms. The question, we admit, is not so easy of 
solution as the first, and might, indeed, without suspicion of  evasion, be discarded as not
coming under the head of this  chapter, which spoke of origin and not of consequences.  Nevertheless,
a few words may be devoted to the subject, to  prove that the answer must still be in the negative.

The first result of Protestantism was undoubtedly to extinguish 
as completely as possible the remaining sparks of truly liberal 
thought promulgated in Europe by the Catholic doctors of the 
middle ages. Wherever the new doctrines spread, secular rulers 
were not only freed from pontifical control, but were themselves 
invested with supreme ecclesiastical power. The effective check 
which the paternal and bold voice issuing from the Vatican had 
exercised on kings and princes was in a moment taken away. In 
Germany, England, and Scandinavia, the kings and petty princes, 
and dukes even, became each so many popes in their own dominions.
 And this took place with the consent and frequently at the 
earnest request of the Reformers.

Even the European states which did not fall away from the old  faith of Christendom took advantage,
it might almost be said, of  the difficult position in which the Holy Father found himself,
to countenance new doctrines with respect to the limits of the  authority of the Supreme Pontiff;
and the new errors which so  suddenly appeared in France and elsewhere, during the prevalence
and at the extinction of the great schism, limiting the power of  the Popes in many matters
where it had been considered binding,  broke out again, in France principally, under the lead
of  Protestant or Erastian parliamentarians and legists, under the  name of Gallican liberties--pretended
liberties, which would  really make the Church a subordinate adjunct of the State,  instead
of what it is, a spiritual living body ruled exclusively  by a spiritual head.

How could the cause of true liberty in Europe be promoted by  such altered circumstances as
these?--to say nothing of the  disastrous imprudence with which those blind rulers and so-
called theologians took away the key-stone of the European  social edifice, which grew weaker
from that day forth, until now  we see it tottering to its fall.

The introduction of Protestantism, then, was one of the chief  causes of the change by which
a much greater personal power was  transferred to the hands of the sovereign than he had ever
before held, and it is no surprise to see the absolutism of  emperors and kings, in Christian
Europe, date from its coming.

As time passed on, the cause acting on a larger scale, embracing  a wider circumference, and
drawing within its circle vaster  territories, the world saw absolute rule established in England,
France, Spain, and Germany. Previous to the sixteenth century,  the word 'absolutism' was unknown
in Christendom, as was the  doctrine of the "divine right of kings" understood and preached
as it has since been in England.

But, to furnish details which should render these reflections  more striking, would require
an unravelling of the whole tangled  skein of history during those times.

Nevertheless, we must come to consider the last refuge of  Protestant liberalism. Did not the
Reformation really emancipate  modern nations, and gradually bring about the whole system of
representative governments, which, starting from England, have  now, in fact, become, more
or less, general throughout Europe?

Our answer is, Yes and No. It may be granted that Protestantism  did give rise to a certain
kind of liberalism very prevalent in  our days; but such liberalism is very far from bestowing
on  nations true liberty and stability; hence their constant  agitation, and the perils of
society which threaten all, even  the specially favored Protestant nations themselves as much
as  any.

It was indeed the new doctrines which brought about the  "Commonwealth" in England, and the
subsequent Revolution of 1688; between which two events, however, great differences exist.

The destruction of monarchy under and in the person of Charles I.
 was the just retribution dealt by Providence to the English 
kings, who had been the first openly to shake off from a great 
nation the wise and beneficent yoke of Rome. At all events, one 
thing is certain, that under the "Protector," the child of the 
Revolution, as little as under the Protestant Tudors, could the 
English scarcely be regarded as freemen.

Cromwell banished from their hall the representatives of the  people. He could scarcely find
epithets opprobrious enough for  Magna Charta, which the people considered, and rightly, as
the  palladium of English liberty. In his scornful order to "take  away that bawble," though
the "bawble" immediately referred to  was the Speaker's mace, the word meant the freedom of
the nation. He was as absolute a monarch as ever ruled England. The liberty  enjoyed under
his regime was as meaningless for every class as  for the Catholics, whom he more immediately
oppressed, and was  ill compensated for by the material prosperity which his genius  knew so
well how to secure.

It was his despotic rule, in fact, and the fear of anarchy which  affrighted the minds of the
people at his death--the dread of a  government of rival soldiers--which rendered so easy the
triumphant restoration of the worthless Stuarts, in the person  of the most worthless of them
all, Charles II.

The true constitutional liberty of which England may fairly  boast was the work of a long series
of years subsequent to the  Revolution of 1688. It was the work of the whole eighteenth  century,
in fact, and was grounded on the fragments of old  Catholic doctrines and customs. In no sense
can it be called the  result of Protestantism, save as coming after it in point of  time.

Whoever is acquainted with the state of religion and society in  England, during the latter
part of the seventeenth and the whole  of the eighteenth century, needs not to be told that,
among the  ruling classes, faith in a revealed religion had ceased to exist. The yoke of Rome
once shaken off, the human mind was quick to  draw all the consequences of the principle of
entire  independence in religious matters. Tindal, Collins, Hobbes,  Shaftesbury, and other
philosophers, had openly denounced  revelation, and that portion of the nation which esteemed
itself  enlightened embraced their new doctrines. It would be false to  imagine that, in 1700
and afterward, the English were as firm  believers in the Church of England's Thirty-nine Articles
as  they seemed to be at the beginning of this century. The whole of  the last century was
for all Europe, with the exception of the  two peninsulas of Italy and Spain, a period of avowed
disbelief.

Even Presbyterian Scotland did not escape the contagion, and  some theologians and preachers
of the Kirk at that time are now  praised for their liberal views of religion, that is, for
their  want of real faith. The influence of Wesley and his fellow- workers on the English mind,
and the dread of the spread of  French infidelity and jacobinism, were more extensive and 
effectual than people are apt to imagine; and there is no doubt  that, seventy years ago England
was far more of a believing  country than she had been for a hundred years before.

But, if even Scotch Presbyterian ministers and Church of England  men, such as Laurence Sterne,
were unworthy of the name of  Christian, what are we to think of those who had to profess no
outward faith in Christianity, because of ministerial offices?  There is no doubt that, in
the mass, they were almost completely  void of any faith in revealed religion.

To such men as these is England indebted for the development of  her constitution. If Protestantism
had any share in it at all,  it did not go beyond preparing the way for the destruction of
Christianity in the mind and heart of the people; or, rather,  constitutional liberty in England
has no connection whatever  with religion. The English, left to their own ingenuity and  skill,
displayed a vast amount of statesmanlike qualities in  devising for themselves a system of
check and counter-check,  which protected the subject and defined the rights of the ruler;
and this gave the nation an undoubted superiority over their  neighbors on the Continent. But
it cannot be attributed, except  in a very remote manner, to the Protestant doctrine of the
independence of the human mind.

Were we to examine the effect which the example of England  produced on other nations, we should
find that, instead of  spreading liberty, it was the cause of the diffusion of an  unbridled
license under the name of liberalism.

In England itself; the lower orders of society having been kept  in ignorance, and consequently
in subjection to the ruling  classes, and the latter finding it to their interest to preserve
order and stability in the state, no frightful commotions could  ensue to threaten the destruction
of society.

In Continental countries, the middle and even the lowest classes  were more readily caught
by doctrines which, when kept within  due bounds, may be promotive of exterior prosperity,
but which,  pushed to their extremes and logical consequences, may embroil  the whole nation
in revolution and calamities.

Such has been the case in our own days, and in days immediately  preceding our own; and England
is now experiencing the recoil of  those convulsions, and seems on the eve of being convulsed
herself more terribly, perhaps, than any other nation has yet  been.

These few reflections must suffice, as to extend them would go  beyond our present scope. But
now comes the question, Why was  Ireland unprepared for the reception of Protestantism? Why
did  she reject it absolutely and permanently?

According to the theorists who attribute the success of  Protestantism in the North of Europe
to a higher civilization  and a more ardent love of freedom, the contrary characteristics 
should distinguish those nations which remained faithful to the  Church, and particularly the
Irish. Was the lack of a higher  civilization and more ardent love for freedom really the cause,
then, for Ireland's undergoing so many fearful sacrifices merely  for the sake of her religion?

We should not dread entering upon a comparison of the  Scandinavian and Celtic races in these
two articular points, as  they existed at the time of the Tudors. We are confident that a 
detailed survey of both would result in a glorious vindication  of the Irish character, although,
owing to six hundred years of  cruel wars with Dane and Anglo-Norman, the actual prosperity
of  the country was far inferior to that of England. But the outline  of so vast a subject
must content us here.

In judging of the elevation of a nation's sentiments, the first  thing that strikes us is the
motive assigned by the Irish  representatives for refusing to pass the bill of supremacy. 
"Five or six changes of religion in twelve years were too much  for conscientious people."
Such was the answer sent back to  Elizabeth, and spoken as though easy of comprehension. Had
they  deemed that their language could have been misunderstood, they  would undoubtedly have
expressed themselves in stronger terms.

Strange that such an obvious and common-sense remark had never  occurred to the intelligent
and highly-civilized members of the  English Parliament--those ardent lovers of freedom--when
applied  to by a new English monarch to acknowledge and confirm, as law,  the religious system
he had determined to establish!

Apparently, then, at this time, Ireland possessed a conscience  which England either laid no
claim on, or made no pretensions to; and it might not be too much to lay this down as the first
reason why Ireland remained faithful to her religion. In fact,  the whole history of the period
bears out this general  observation. The subserviency of the proud English aristocracy,  of
those pretended statesmen and legislators, in matters so  intimately connected with the soul,
its convictions and its  morality, shows conclusively that the word "conscience" had no  meaning
for them, or that, if they were aware of the existence  of such a thing, they made so little
account of it that they  were ready at all times to barter it for position, what they  considered
honor, and wealth.

On the other hand, the constant, unshaken, and emphatic refusal  of the Irish to renounce their
religion for the novel  "speculations" of pretended theologians-- in reality, heretical  teachers
--at the beck of king or queen; their willingness to  submit to all the rigor of extreme penal
laws rather than  disobey their sense of right, proves too well that they  possessed a conscience,
knew what it meant, and resolved to  follow it. There is not a single fact of their, history,
general  or particular, taking them collectively as a nation, when, by  their actions, they
spoke as one people or individually, when  priest and friar, great man or mean man, chose to
lose position,  property, name--life itself--rather than be false to their  religion and God--which
does not prove that they owned a  conscience and obeyed its voice.

Can a nation, deprived of this, be esteemed really free and  truly civilized? and can a nation
which possesses it be  considered barbarous? The answer cannot be doubtful, and is of  itself
a sufficient solution of the question under examination.

But, to come to more special details. The Irish idea of  civilization was certainly of a very
different character from  that of the English; but was it the less true? From the landing 
of the first invasion, the Norman nobles and prelates looked  down on the invaded people as
barbarous and uncouth, as they  previously looked down upon the Anglo-Saxons. Later on, they
spoke of the Irish customs as "lewd;" and, later still, the  majority of them adopted those
"lewd customs."

If the question be merely one of refinement of outward manners,  and aquaintance with the artificial
code established by a  society with which the Irish, up to that time, had never come in  contact,
the Normans may be granted whatever benefit may accrue  to them from such, though, even here,
the Irish chieftains might  later on compare favorably with their foes. For instance, if is
doubtful whether Hugh O'Donnell and O'Sullivan Beare, one of  whom went to Spain, and the other
to Portugal--and the second,  Philip II. commanded to be treated as a Spanish grandee --were
not as courteous and dignified as Cecil or Walsingham, or Essex  or Raleigh, at the court of
Elizabeth. And, if we take the case  of the descendants of Strongbow's warriors, who became
"more  Irish than the Irish," there is no reason why we should not  prefer the manners and
bearing of young Gerald Desmond, when,  after leaving Rome, he appeared at the court of Tuscany,
to  those of the young lords who danced at Windsor, under the eyes  of Henry, with Anne Boleyn.
But, treating the subject seriously,  and examining it more closely, we may find a necessity
for  reversing the opinion which is too commonly entertained.

Civilization does not consist only, or chiefly, in refinement of  manners, but in all things
which exalt a nation; and, after the  "conscience" of which we have spoken, nothing is so important
in  making a nation civilized as the institutions under which it  lives.

The laws are the great index of a people's civilization, chiefly  as regards their execution.
Nothing can be more indicative of it  than the criminal code of a people.

The law of England at that time compares poorly with the Irish  compilation known as the "Senchus
Mor," which scholars have only  recently been able to study, and which is being printed as
we  write, and to be illustrated with learned notes. From all  accounts given by competent
reviewers, it is clear that wisdom,  sound judgment, equity, and Christian feeling, constitute
the  essence of those laws which Edmund Campian found the young  Irishmen of his day studying
under such strange circumstances  and with such ardor and application as to spend sixteen or
eighteen years at it.

And in what manner were those very Christian enactments which  lay at the foundation of the
English legislation executed at the  same period? What, for instance, were the features of
its  criminal code? It is unnecessary to depict what all the world  knows.

In extenuation of the barbarous blood-thirstiness which  characterized it, it may be said that
torture, cruel punishments, and fearful chastisement for slight offences, formed the  general
features of the criminal code of most Christian nations.  They had been handed down by barbarous
ancestors, the relics of  Scandinavian cruelty for the most part, added to the Roman slave
penalties, which were the remnants of pagan inhumanity. This  answer would be insufficient
when comparing the English with the  Brehon law, but it does not hold good even with reference
to  other Continental nations. In no country at that time was  punishment so pitiless as in
England. The details, now well  known, can only be published for exceptional readers; to find
a  comparison for them Dr. Madden says:

"We must come down to the reign of terror in France, to the  massacres of September, to the
wholesale executions of  conventional times; to find the mob insulting the victims, and  the
executioner himself adding personal affront to the  disgusting fulfilment of his horrible office."

Passing from the laws to the usages of warfare, and chiefy to  domestic strife, here the most
vulnerable point in the Irish  character shows itself. The constant feuds resulting from the
clan system furnish a never-failing theme to those who accuse  the Irish of barbarism. Yet
is there no parallel to them in the  horrors of those dynastic revolutions which preceded the
Tudors  in England, and which the Tudors only put an end to by the  completest despotism, and
by shedding the best blood of the  country in torrents? The Irish feuds never depopulated the
country. It is even admitted by most reliable historians that,  while those dissensions were
rifest, the land was really teeming  with a happy people, and rich in every thing which an
agricultural country can enjoy. The great battles of the various  clans resulted often in the
killing of a few dozen warriors.  Such, in fact, was the manner in which chroniclers estimated
the  gains or losses of each of those victories or defeats.

But, in the Wars of the Roses, England lost a great part of her  adult population; so much
so, that she was altogether  incapacitated from waging war with any external nation. She  could
not even afford to send any reenforcements to the English  Pale in Ireland--not even a few
hundred which at times would  have proved so serviceable. It was in fact high time and almost
a happy thing for England that the crushing despotism of the  Tudors came in to save the nation
from total ruin.

Finally, can it be said that the Irish were inferior in  civilization to the English by reason
of their social habits,  when Danes, Anglo-Saxons and Normans, in turn, invariably  adopted
Irish manners in preference to their own, after living a  sufficient time in the country to
be able to appreciate the  difference between the one and the other?

The writers of whom we speak ascribe the spread of Protestantism  not only to a higher civilization,
or at least a special aptness  and fitness for it, but also say that it was due to the greater
love for freedom which possessed those who accepted it; whereas  the Irish, as they allege,
have been forever priest-ridden and  cowered under the lash.

The connection between English Protestantism and freedom has  been sufficiently touched upon.
But in Ireland the whole  resistance of the Irish people to the change of religion is the 
most conspicuous proof which could be advanced of their inherent  love for freedom.

What is the meaning of this word "priest-ridden?" If, as  attached to the Irish, it means that
they have remained  faithfully devoted to their spiritual guides, and protected them  at cost
of life and limb against the execution of barbarous laws, this epithet which is flung at them
as a reproach is a glory to  them, and a true one.

Are they to be accused of cowardice because they were never bold  enough to demolish a single
Catholic chapel--a favorite  amusement of the English mobs from Elizabeth's reign to  Victoria's--or
because they could not find the courage in their  hearts to mock a martyr at the stake, or
imbrue their hands in  his blood, as did the nation of a higher civilization and a more  ardent
love for freedom?

The Irish cower under the lash! It could never be applied, until  calculating treachery had
first rendered them naked and  defenceless, and removed from their reach every weapon of  defence.
And the man who in such a case receives the lash is a  coward, while he who safely applies
it is a hero!

Our observations so far have cleared the ground for the right  solution and understanding of
the present question. It may now  be said that the Irish were not prepared for the reception
of  Protestantism, and remained firm in their faith because--

1. They possessed a conscience.

2. There had existed no religious abuses, worthy of the name, in  their country which called
for reform. Such abuses had in  England and Germany furnished the pretext for a change of 
religion. It was a mere pretext, for the alleged abuses might  all be remedied without intrenching
on the domain of faith, and  unsettling the religious convictions of the whole nation. There
is no greater crime possible than to introduce among people  enjoying all the benefits resulting
from a firm belief in holy  truth a simple doubt, a simple hesitating surmise, calculated to
make them waver in the least in what had previously been a solid  and well-grounded faith.
But to consider that crime carried to  the extent of so sapping the foundation of Christian
belief as  to bring about the inevitable consequence of opening under  nations the fearful
abyss of atheism and despair--there is no  word sufficiently strong to express the indignation
which such a  course of action must naturally excite. And that the ultimate  result of the
new heresy was to carry men to the very brink of  the abyss is plain enough to-day, and was
foreseen by Luther  himself. In all probability he had a clear perception of it,  since the
latter half of his life was devoted to propping up the  crumbling walls of his hastily-erected
edifice by whatever  supports he could steal from the old faith, and fighting hard  against
all those who had already drawn the ultimate conclusions  of his own principles.

For those, then, who in the sixteenth century set in motion the  chaos which threatens to overwhelm
us to-day, the religious  abuses existing at the time can offer no excuse for their  destruction
of Religion, because stains happened to sully the  purity of her outward garment.

But in Ireland no such abuses existed; and consequently there  was there not even a pretext
for the introduction of  Protestantism, and by the very reason of their sense of good and 
right the Irish were unprepared for heresy.

3. Even had it entered into their minds to wish for a 
reformation of some kind, they were certainly unprepared for the 
one offered them. The first reform of the new order was to close 
the religious houses which the people loved, which were the 
seats of learning, holiness, and education. Their Catholic 
ancestors had founded those religious houses; they themselves 
enjoyed the spiritual and even temporal advantages attached to 
them, for they constituted in fact the only important and useful 
establishments which their country possessed; they had been 
consecrated by the lives and deaths of a thousand saints within 
their walls; and they suddenly beheld pretended ministers of a 
new religion of which they knew nothing, backed by ferocious 
Walloon or English troopers, turn out or slay their inmates, 
close them, set them on fire, pillage them, or convert them into 
private dwellings for the convenience of an imported aristocracy.
This was the first act of the "introduction " of the 
"Reformation " into Ireland. The people were enabled to judge of 
the sanctity of the new creed at its first appearance among them.
 And this alone, apart from their firm adherence to the faith of 
their fathers, was quite enough to justify them in their 
resistance to such a substitute.

But, above all, when they beheld how the inmates of those holy- houses were treated, when they
saw them cast out into the world,  penniless, reduced to penury and want, persecuted, declared
outcasts, hunted down, insulted by the soldiery, arrested,  cruelly beaten, bound hand and
foot, and hung up either before  the door of their burning monastery, or even in the church
itself before the altar--what wonder that they were unprepared  to receive the new religion?

The barbarity displayed throughout England and Ireland toward  Catholicism was specially fiendish
when directed against  religious of both sexes; and, as in Ireland no class of persons  was
more justly and dearly loved, what wonder that the Irish  literally hated the religion that
came to them from beyond the  sea?

Without going over the other aspects of the religious question  of the time, and comparing
article with article of the new and  old beliefs, this single feature of the case alone is
sufficient. The process might be carried out with advantage, but is not  necessary.

4. The new order of things, in one word, resolved itself into  rapacity and wanton bloodshed.
And, despite whatever may be said  of Irish outrages by those who are never tired of alluding
to  them, Irish nature is opposed to such excesses. If they are ever  guilty of such, it is
only when they have previously been  outraged themselves, and in such cases they are the first
to  repent of their action in their cooler moments. On the other  hand, the men who first set
all these outrages going never find  reason to accuse themselves of any thing, are even perfectly
satisfied with and convinced of their own perfection; and, as  from the first they acted coolly
and systematically, their self- equanimity is never disturbed, they continue unshaken in the
calm conviction that they have always been in the right,  whatever may have been the consequences
of the initiative  movement and its steady continuance.

But we repeat advisedly--the Irish nature is opposed to rapacity  and wanton shedding of blood,
and this formed another strong  reason for their opposition to the religious revolution which
immersed them in so bloody a baptism.

5. Yet perhaps the most radical and real cause of their  persistent refusal to embrace Protestantism
lies in their  traditional spirit, of which we have previously spoken. There is  no rationalistic
tendency in their character.

And all the points well considered, which, after all, is the  better, the simply traditional
or strictly rationalistic nature?  What has been the result of those philosophical speculations
from which Protestantism sprang? Whither are men tending to-day  in consequence of it? Would
it not have been better for mankind  to have stood by the time-honored traditions of former
ages,  independently of the strong and convincing claims which  Catholicity offers to all?
This is said without in the least  attributing the fault to sound philosophy, without casting
the  slightest slur on those truly great and illustrious men who have  widened the limits of
the human intellect, and deserved well of  mankind by the solid truths they have opened up
in their works  for the benefit and instruction of minds less gifted than their  own.

CHAPTER XI.

THE IRISH AND THE STUARTS.--LOYALTY AND CONFISCATION.

Upon the death of Elizabeth, in 1603, the son of the unfortunate  Mary Stuart was called to
the throne of England, and for the  first time in their history the Irish people accepted English
rule, gave their willing submission to an English dynasty, and  afterward displayed as great
devotedness in supporting the  falling cause of their new monarchs, as in defending their 
religion and nationality.

This feeling of allegiance, born so suddenly and strangely in  the Irish breast, cherished
so ardently and at the price of so  many sacrifices, finally raising the nation to the highest
pitch  of heroism, is worth studying and investigating its true cause.

What ought to have been the natural effect produced on the Irish  people by the arrival of
the news that James of Scotland had  succeeded to Elizabeth? The first feeling must have been
one of  deep relief that the hateful tyranny of the Tudors had passed  away, to be supplanted
by the rule of their kinsmen the Stuarts-- kinsmen, because the Scottish line of kings was
directly  descended from that Dal Riada colony which Ireland had sent so  long ago to the shores
of Albania, to a branch of which  Columbkill belonged.

For those who were not sufficiently versed in antiquarian  genealogy to trace his descent so
far back, the thought that  James was the son of Mary Stuart was sufficient. If any people
could sympathize with the ill-starred Queen of Scots, that  people was the Irish. It could
not enter into their ideas that  the son of the murdered Catholic queen, should have feelings
uncongenial to their own. It is easy, then, to understand how,  when the news of Elizabeth's
death and of the accession of James  arrived, the sanguine Irish heart leaped with a new hope
and  joyful expectation.

As for the real disposition of that strangest of monarchs, James  I,, writers are at variance.
Matthew O'Connor, the elder, who  had in his hands the books and manuscripts of Charles O'Connor
of Bellingary, is very positive in his assertions on his side of  the question:

"James was a determined and implacable enemy to the Catholic  religion; he alienated his professors
from all attachment to his  government by the virulence of his antipathy. One of his first
gracious proclamations imported a general jail-delivery, except  for 'murderers and papists.'
By another proclamation he pledged  himself 'never to grant any toleration to the Catholics,'
and  entailed a curse on his posterity if they granted any."

Turning now to Dr. Madden's "History of the Penal Laws," we  shall feel disposed to modify
so positive an opinion. There we  read:

"It is very evident that his zeal for the Protestant Church had  more to do with a hatred of
the Puritans than of popery, and  that he had a hankering, after all, for the old religion
which  his mother belonged to, and for which she had been persecuted by  the fanatics of Scotland."

Hume seems to support this judgment of Dr. Madden when he says  that "the principles of James
would have led him to earnestly  desire a unity of faith of the Churches which had been separated."

Both opinions, however, agree in the long-run, since Dr. Madden  is obliged to confess that
"new measures of severity, as the  bigotry of the times became urgent, were wrung from the
timid  king. He had neither moral nor political courage."

Still, on the day of his coronation, the Irish could little  imagine what was in store for
them at the hands of the son of  Mary Stuart; hence their great rejoicing, till the first stroke
of bitter disappointment came to open their eyes, and awaken  them to the hard reality. This
was the flight of Tyrone and  Tyrconnell, which had been brought about by treachery and low
cunning. These chieftains were, as they deserved to be, the  idols of the nation.

The real cause of their flight was that adventurers and  "undertakers" desired to "plant" Ulster,
though the final treaty  with Mountjoy had left both earls in possession of their lands.  That
treaty yielded not an acre of plunder, and was consequently  in English eyes a failure. The
long, bloody, and promising wars  of Elizabeth's reign had ended, after all, in forcing coronets
on the brows of O'Neill and O'Donnell, with a royal deed added, securing to them their lands,
and freedom of worship to all the north.

James was met by the importunate demand for land. O'Neill,  O'Donnell, and several other Irish
chieftains, were sacrificed  to meet this demand; they were compelled to fly; and they had
scarcely gone when millions of acres in Ulster were declared to  be forfeited to the crown,
and thrown open for "planting."

And here a new feature in confiscation presents itself, which  was introduced by the first
of the Stuart dynasty, and proved  far more galling to Irishmen than any thing they had yet
encountered in this shape.

In the invasion led by Strongbow, in the absorption of the  Kildare estates by Henry VIII.,
in the annexation of King's and  Queen's Counties under Philip and Mary, even in the last 
"plantation" of Munster by Elizabeth's myrmidons at the end of  the Desmond war, the land had
been immediately distributed among  the chief officers of the victorious armies. The conquered
knew  that such would be the law of war; the great generals and  courtiers who came into possession
scarcely disturbed the  tenants. A few of the great native and Anglo-Irish families  suffered
sorely from the spoliation; the people at large  scarcely felt it, except by the destruction
of clanship and the  introduction of feudal grievances. Moreover, the new proprietors  were
interested in making their tenants happy, and not  unfrequently identified themselves with
the people--becoming in  course of time true Irishmen.

But, with the accession of the first of the Stuarts to the  English throne, a great alteration
took place in the disposal of  the land throughout Ireland.

The Tyrone war had ended five years before, and those who had  taken part in the conflict had
already received their portion;  the vanquished, of misfortune--the conquerors, of gain. James
brought in with him from Scotland a host of greedy followers;  and all, from first to last,
expected to rise with their king  into wealth and honor. England was not wide enough to hold
them,  nor rich enough to satiate their appetites. The puzzled but  crafty king saw a way out
of his difficulties in Ireland. He no  longer limited the distribution of land in that country
to  soldiers and officers of rank chiefly. He gave it to Scotch  adventurers, to London trades
companies. He settled it on  Protestant colonies whose first use of their power was to evict
the former tenants or clansmen, and thus effect a complete  change in the social aspect of
the north.

Well did they accomplish the task assigned them. Ulster became a  Protestant colony, and the
soil of that province has ever since  remained in the hands of a people alien to the country. 	

Yet the Ulstermen had been led to believe that James purposed  securing them in their possessions;
for, according to Mr.  Prendergast, in his Introduction to the "Cromwellian settlement:"

"On the 17th of July, 1607, Sir Arthur Chichester, Lord Deputy,  accompanied by Sir John Davies
and other commissioners,  proceeded to Ulster, with powers to inquire what land each man  held.
There appeared before them, in each county they visited,  the chief lords and Irish gentlemen,
the heads of creaghts, and  the common people, the Brehons and Shanachies, who knew all the
septs and families, and took upon themselves to tell what  quantity of land every man ought
to have. They thus ascertained  and booked their several lands, and the Lord-Deputy promised
them estates in them. It could not be said that the flight of the earls gave  occasion for
this change, inasmuch as the king, immediately  after, issued a proclamation--which he renewed
on taking  possession of both earls' territories--assuring the inhabitants  that they should
be protected and preserved in their estates."

It looks, indeed, as though the whole transaction, including the  promises and the call for
ascertaining the quantity of land  occupied by each inhabitant, as also the sham plot into
which  the earls were inveigled, was but a cunning device to bring  about the plantation, in
which manors of one thousand, fifteen  hundred, and three thousand acres, were offered to such
English  and Scotch as should undertake to plant their lots with British  Protestants, and
engage that no Irish should dwell upon them.  Meanwhile, all who had been in arms during Tyrone's
war were to  be transplanted with their families, cattle, and followers, to  waste places in
Munster and Connaught, and there set down at a  distance from one another.

Over and above this, the Irish were indebted to James for a new  project--a most ingenious
invention for successful plunder. He  was the real author of the celebrated "Commission for
the  investigation of defective titles."

It would seem that the province of Ulster was too small for the  rapacity of those who were
constantly urging upon the king a  greater thoroughness in his plans. It was clear, moreover,
that  the English occupation of the other three provinces had hitherto  proved a failure. The
island had failed to become Anglicised,  and it was necessary to begin the work anew.

The new commission was presented to the Irish people in a most  alluring guise. That political
hypocrisy, which to-day stands  for statesmanship, is not a growth of our own times. The  intention
of James confined itself to putting an end to all  uncertainty on the subject of titles, and
bestowing on each land- owner one which, for the future, should be unimpeachable. But  the
result went beyond his intention. This measure became, in  fact, an engine of universal spoliation.
It failed to secure  even those who succeeded in retaining a portion of their former  estates
in possession, as Strafford made manifest, who, despite  all the unimpeachable titles conferred
by James, managed to  confiscate to his own profit the greater part of the province of  Connaught.

It is fitting to give a few details of this new measure of James, in order to show the gratitude
which the Irish owed the Stuarts, if on that account only. In "Ireland under English Rule,"
the  Rev. A. Perraud justly remarks: "Most Irish families held  possession of their lands but
by tradition, and their rights  could not be proved by regular title-deeds. By royal command,
a  general inquiry was instituted, and whoever could not prove his  right to the seat of his
ancestors, by authentic documents, was  mercilessly but juridically despoiled of it; the pen
of the lawyer thus making as many conquests as the blade of the mercenary."

The advisers of James--those who aided him in this scheme --were  fully alive to its efficiency
in serving their ends. A few years  previously, Arthur Chichester and Sir John Davies had only
to  consult the Brehon lawyers and the chroniclers of the tribes,  whose duty it was to become
thoroughly acquainted with the  limits of the various territories, and keep the records in
their  memory, in order to procure from the Ulster men the proofs of  their rights to property.
Up to that time the word of those who  were authorized, by custom, to pronounce on such subjects,
was  law to every Irishman. And, indeed, the verdict of these was all- sufficient, inasmuch
as the task was not overtaxing to the  memory of even an ordinary man, since it consisted in
remembering, not the landed property of each individual, but the  limits of the territory of
each clan.

The clan territories were as precisely marked off as in any  European state to-day; and, if
any change in frontier occurred,  it was the result of war between the neighboring clans, and
therefore known to all. To suppose, then, under such a state of  land tenure, that the territory
of the Maguire clan, for  instance, belonged exclusively to Maguire, and that he could  prove
his title to the property by legal documents, was  erroneous--in fact, such a thing was impossible.
Yet, such was  the ground on which the king based his establishment of the  odious commission.

The measure meant nothing less than the simple spoliation of all  those who came under its
provisions at the time. Matthew  O'Connor has furnished some instances of its workings, which
may  bring into stronger light the enormity of such an attempt.

"The immense possessions of Bryan na Murtha O'Rourke had been  granted to his son Teige, by
patent; in the first year of the  king's reign, and to the heirs male of his body. Teige died,
leaving several sons; their titles were clear; no plots or  conspiracies could be urged to
invalidate them. By the medium of  those inquisitions, they were found, one and all, to be
bastards. The eldest son, Bryan O'Rourke, vas put off with a miserable  pension, and detained
in England lest he should claim his  inheritance. Yet, in this case, the title was actually
in existence.

"In the county of Longford, three-fourths of nine hundred and  ninety-nine cartrons, the property
of the O'Farrells, were  granted to adventurers, to the undoing and beggary of that  princely
family. Twenty-five of the septs were dispossessed of  their all, and to the other septs were
assigned mountainous and  barren tracts about one-fourth of their former possessions.

"The O'Byrnes, of Wicklow, were robbed of their property by a  conspiracy unparalleled even
in the annals of those times;  fabricated charges of treason, perjury, and even legal murder,
were employed; and, though the innocence of those victims of  rapacious oppression was established,
yet they were never restored."

With regard to the Anglo-Irish, and even such of the natives as  had consented to accept titles
from the English kings, those  titles, some of which went back as far as Strongbow's invasion,
were brought under the "inquiry" of the new commission--with  what result may be imagined.
An astute legist can discover flaws  in the best-drawn legal papers. In the eye of the law,
the  neglect of recording is fatal; and it was proved that many  proprietors, whose titles
had been bestowed by Henry VIII. and  Elizabeth, were not recorded, simply by bribing the clerks
who  were charged with the office of recording them.

This portion of our subject must present strange features to  readers acquainted with the laws
concerning property which  obtain among civilized nations. In making the necessary studies
for this most imperfect sketch, the writer has been surprised at  finding that not one of the
authors whom he has consulted has  spoken of any thing beyond the cruelty of compelling Irish
landowners to exhibit title-deeds, which it was known they did  not and could not possess.
Not a single one has ever said a word  of "prescription;" yet, this alone was enough to arrest
the  proceedings of any English court, if it followed the rules of  law which govern civilized
communities.

Most of the estates, then declared to be escheated to the king,  had been in possession of
the families to which the holders  belonged, for centuries; we may go so far, in the case of
some  Irish families and tribes, as to say for thousands of years. But, to disturb property
which has been held for even less than a  century, would convulse any nation subjected to such
a revolutionary process. No country in the world could stand such a test; it would loosen in
a day all the bonds that hold society together.

If the commission set on foot by James did not go to the extreme  lengths to which it was carried
by those who came after him, he  it was who established what bore the semblance of a legal
precedent for the excesses of Strafford, under Charles I., which  reached their utmost limits
in the hands of Cromwell's  parliamentary commissioners. James set the engine of destruction
in action: they worked it to its end. The Irish might justly lay  at his door all the woes
which ensued to them from the  principles emanating from him. Even during his reign they saw,
with instinctive horror, the abyss which he had opened up to  swallow all their inheritance.
The first commission of James  commenced its operations by reporting three hundred and eighty-
five thousand acres in Leinster alone as "discovered," inasmuch  as the titles "were not such
as ought " (in their judgment) "to  stand in the way of his-Majesty's designs."

Hence, long before the death of James, all the hopes which his  accession had raised in the
minds of the Irish had vanished; yet, strange to say, they were not cured of their love for
the  Stuart dynasty. They hailed the coming of Charles, the husband  of a Catholic princess,
with joy. His marriage took place a year  previous to the death of his father; and, to know
that Henrietta  of France was to be their queen, was enough to assure the Irish  that, henceforth,
they would enjoy the freedom of their religion. The same motive always awakes in them hope
and joy. Men may  smile at such an idea, but it is with a profound respect for the  Irish character
that such a sentence is written. Hope of  religious freedom is the noblest sentiment which
can move the  breast of man; and if there be reason for admiration in the  motive which urges
men to fight and die for their firesides and  families, how much more so in that which causes
them to set  above all their altars and their God!

This time their hope seemed well-founded; for the treaty  concluded between England and France
conferred the right on the  Catholic princess of educating her children by this marriage  till
the age of thirteen. And, in addition, conditions favorable  to the English Catholics were
inserted in the same treaty.

But people were not then aware of the reason for the insertion  of those conditions.

The Irish rejoiced, however; and Charles and his ministers  encouraged their expectations.
Lord Falkland, in the name of the  king, promised that, if the Catholic lords should present
Charles, who needed money, with a voluntary tribute, he would in  return grant them certain
immunities and protections, which  acquired later on a great celebrity under the name of "graces."

The chief of these were--to allow "recusants" to practise in the  courts of law, and to sue
out the livery of their land, merely  on taking an act of civil allegiance instead of the oath
of  supremacy; that the claims of the crown should be limited to the  last sixty years--a period
long enough in all conscience; and  that the inhabitants of Connaught should be allowed to
make a  new enrolment of their estates, to be accepted by the king. A  Parliament was promised
to sit in a short time, in order to  confirm all these "graces."

The subsidy promised by the Irish lords amounted to the then  enormous sum of forty thousand
pounds sterling, to be paid  annually for three years. Two-thirds of it was paid, according
to Matthew O'Connor, but no one of the "graces" was forthcoming,  the king finding he had promised
more than he could perform.

Instead of enabling the land-owners of Connaught to obtain a new  title by a new enrolment,
Strafford, with the connivance of  Charles, devised a project which would have enabled the
king to  dispose of the whole province to the enriching of his exchequer.  This project consisted
in throwing open the whole territory to  the court of "defective titles." To legalize this
spoliation,  the parchment grant, five hundred years old, given to Roderic  O'Connor and Richard
de Burgo, by Henry II., was set up as  rendering invalid the claims of immemorial possession
by the  Irish, although confirmed by recent compositions.

In the counties of Roscommon, Mayo, and Sligo, juries were found  for the crown. The honesty
and courageous resistance of a Galway  jury prevented the carrying out of the measure in that
county.  Strafford resented this rebuff deeply; and the brave Galway  jurors were punished
without mercy for their "contumacy," for  they had been told openly to find for the king. Compelled
to  appear in the Castle chamber, they were each fined four thousand  pounds, their estates
seized, and themselves imprisoned until  their fines should be paid; while the sheriff, who
was also  fined to the same amount, not being able to pay, died in prison.  Such were a few
of the "graces" granted the Irish on the  accession of Charles I.

Meanwhile, the king's difficulties with his English subjects  drove him to turn for hope to
the Scotch, upon whom he had  attempted to force Episcopalianism. The resistance of the Scotch,
and the celebrated Covenant by which they bound themselves, are  well known. Charles, finally,
granted the Covenanters not only  liberty of conscience, but even the religious supremacy of
Presbyterianism, paying their army, moreover, for a portion of  the time it passed under service
in the rebellion against  himself.

The example of the Scotch was certainly calculated to inflame  the Irish with ardor, and drive
them likewise into rebellion.  What was the oppression of Scotland compared to that under which
Ireland had so long groaned? Surely the final attempt of the  chief minister of Charles to
rob them of the one province which  had hitherto escaped, was enough to open their eyes, and
convert  their faith in the Stuart dynasty into hatred and determined  opposition. Yet were
they on the eve of carrying their devotion  to this faithless and worthless line to the height
of heroism.  The generosity of the nature which is in them could find an  excuse for Charles.
"He would have done us right," they thought,  "had he been left free." From the rebellion of
his subjects, in  England and Scotland, they could only draw one conclusion--that  he was the
victim of Puritanism, for which they could entertain  no feeling but one of horror; and it
is a telling fact that  their attachment to their religion kept them faithful to the  sovereign
to whom they had sworn their allegiance, however  unworthy he might be.

Thus in the famous rising of 1641, when in one night Ireland,  with the exception of a few
cities, freed herself from the  oppressor (the failure of the plan in Dublin being the only
thing which prevented a complete success; the English of the  Pale still refusing to combine
with the Irish), the native Irish  alone, left to their own resources, proclaimed emphatically
in  explicit terms their loyalty to the king, whom they credited  with a just and tolerant
disposition, if freed from the  restraints imposed upon him by the Puritanical faction. A 
further fact stranger still, and still more calculated to shake  their confidence in the monarch,
occurred shortly after, which  indeed raises the loyalty of the nation to a height  inconceivable
and impossible to any people, unless one whose  conscience is swayed by the sense of stern duty.

When the Scottish Covenanters, whose rebellion had secured them  in possession of all they
demanded, heard of the Irish movement,  they were at once seized with a fanatical zeal urging
them to  stamp out the Irish "Popish rebellion." King Charles, who was  then in Edinburgh,
expressed his gratification at their proposal, and no time was lost in shipping a force of
two thousand Scots  across the Channel. They landed at Antrim, when they began those  frightful
massacres which opened by driving into the sea three  thousand Irish inhabitants of the island
Magee.

When, according to M. O'Connor's "Irish Catholics," "letters  conveying the news of the intended
invasion of the Scots were  intercepted; when the speeches of leading members in the English
Commons, the declaration of the Irish Lord-Justices, and of the  principal members of the Dublin
Council, countenanced those  rumors; when Mr. Pym gave out that he would not leave a Papist
in Ireland; when Sir Parsons declared that within a twelvemonth  not a Catholic should be seen
in the whole country; when Sir  John Clotworthy affirmed that the conversion of the Papists
was  to be effected with the Bible in one hand and the sword in the  other," and the King all
the while seemed to allow and consent  to it, the Irish were not in the least dismayed by those
rumors,  but set about establishing in the convulsed island a sort of  order in the name of
God and the king!

Then for the first time did native and Anglo-Irish Catholics  take common side in a common
cause. This was the union which  Archbishop Browne had foreseen, which had shown itself in
symptoms from time to time, but which had oftener been broken by  the old animosity. But, at
last, convinced that the only party  on which they could rely, and the party which truly supported
the reigning dynasty, was that of the Ulster chiefs, the  Catholic lords of the Pale threw
themselves heart and soul into  it, and, under the guidance of the Catholic bishops who then
came forward, together they formed the celebrated "Confederation  of Kilkenny" in 1642.

Had Charles even then possessed the courage, honesty, or wisdom  to recognize and acknowledge
his true friends, he might have  been spared the fate which overtook him; but all he did was
almost to break up the only coalition which stood up boldly in  his favor.

A circumstance not yet touched upon meets us here. Protestantism  was at this time effecting
a complete change in the rules of  judgment and conduct which men had hitherto followed. In
place  of the old principles of political morality which up to this  period had regulated the
actions of Christians, notions of  independence, of subversion of existing governments, of
revolutions in Church and state, were for the first time in  Christian history scattered broadcast
through the world, and  beginning that series of catastrophes which has made European  history
since, and which is far from being exhausted yet. The  Irish stood firm by the old principles,
and, though they became  victims to their fidelity, they never shrank from the  consequences
of what they knew to be their duty, and to those  principles they remain faithful to-day.

To return from this short digression: The Irish hierarchy, the  native Irish and the Anglo-Irish
lords of the Pale, had combined  together to form the "Confederation of Kilkenny," in which
confederation lay the germ of a truly great nation. Early in the  struggle the Catholic hierarchy
saw that it was for them to take  the initiative in the movement, and they took it in right
earnest. They could not be impassive spectators when the  question at issue was the defence
of the Catholic religion,  joined this time with the rights of their monarch. They met in 
provincial synod at Kells, where, after mature deliberation, the  cause of the confederates,
"God and the king," freedom of  worship and loyalty to the legitimate sovereign, was declared
just and holy, and, after lifting a warning voice against the  barbarities which had commenced
on both sides, and ordaining the  abolition and oblivion of all distinctions between native
Irish  and old English, they took measures for convoking a national  synod at Kilkenny.

It met on the 10th of May, 1643. An oath of association bound  all Catholics throughout the
land. It was ordained that a  general assembly comprising all the lords spiritual and temporal
and the gentry should be held; that the assembly should select  members from its body to represent
the different provinces and  principal cities, to be called the Supreme Council, which should
sit from day to day, dispense justice, appoint to offices, and  carry on the executive government
of the country.

Meanwhile the Irish abroad, the exiles, had heard of the  movement, and several prominent chieftains
came back to take  part in the struggle; while those who remained away helped the  cause by
gaining the aid of the Catholic sovereigns, and sending  home all the funds and munitions of
war they could procure.  Among these, one of the most conspicuous was the learned Luke  Wadding,
then at Rome engaged in writing his celebrated works,  who dispatched money and arms contributed
by the Holy Father.  John B. Rinuccini, Archbishop of Fermo, sent by the Pope as  Nuncio, sailed
in the same ship which conveyed those  contributions to Ireland.

The Catholic prelates thus originated a free government with  nothing revolutionary in its
character, but combining some of  the forms of the old Irish Feis with the chief features of
modern Parliamentary governments. Matthew O'Connor makes the  following just observations on
this subject in his "Irish  Catholics:"

"The duty of obedience to civil government was so deeply  impressed on the Catholic mind, at
this period, in Ireland, that  it degenerated into passive submission. These impressions  originated
in religious zeal, and were fostered by persecution.  The spiritual authority of the clergy
was found requisite to  soften those notions, and temper them with ideas of the  constitutional,
social, and Christian right of resistance in  self-defence. The nobility and gentry fully concurred
in those  proceedings of the clergy, and the nation afterward ratified  them in a general convention
held at Kilkenny, in the subsequent  month of October. The national union seemed to be at last
cemented by the wishes of all orders, and the interests of all  parties."

The fact is, the nation had been brought to life, and took its  stand on a new footing. When
the general assembly met, in  October, eleven bishops and fourteen lay lords formed what may
be called the Irish peerage; two hundred and twenty-six  commoners represented the large majority
of the Irish  constituencies; a great lawyer of the day, Patrick Darcy, was  elected chancellor;
and a Supreme Council of six members from  each province constituted what may be called the
Executive.

This government, which really ruled Ireland without any  interference until Ormond succeeded
in breaking it up, was  obeyed and acknowledged throughout the land. It undertook and  carried
out all the functions of its high office, such as the  coining of money, appointing circuit-judges,
sending ambassadors  abroad, and commissioning officers to direct the operations of  the national
army. Among these latter, one name is sufficient to  vouch for their efficiency: that of Owen
Roe O'Neill, who had  returned, with many others, from the Continent, in the July of  that
year, and formally, assumed the command of the army of  Ulster.

Owen Roe O'Neill was grand-nephew to Hugh of Tyrone. Unknown,  even now, to Europe, his name
still lives in the memory of his  countrymen. "The head of the Hy-Niall race, the descendant
of a  hundred kings, the inheritor of their virtues, without a taint  of their vices, he would
have deserved a crown, and, on a larger  theatre, would have acquired the title of a hero."--(M.
O'Connor.)

Had Charles recognized this government, which proclaimed him  king, discharged from office
the traitors, Borlase and Parsons,  who plotted against him, and not surrendered his authority
to  Ormond, Ireland would probably have been saved from the horrors  impending, and Charles
himself from the scaffold. Whatever the  issue might have been, the fact remains that the Irish
then  proved they could establish a solid government of their own, and  that it is an altogether
erroneous idea to imagine them  incapable of governing themselves.

It is impossible to enter here upon the details of the intricate  complications which ensued--complications
which were chiefly  owing to the plots of Ormond; but, it may be stated fearlessly  that, the
more the history of those times is studied, the more  certainly is the "national" party, with
the Nuncio Rinuccini for  head and director, recognized as the one which, better than any 
other, could have saved Ireland. At least, no true Irishman will  now pretend that the "peace
party," headed by Ormond, which was  pitted against the "Nuncionists," could bring good to
the  country; on the contrary, its subsequent misfortunes are to be  ascribed directly to it.

To stigmatize it as it deserves, needs no more than to say that  among its chief leaders were
Ormond, its head and projector, and  Murrough O'Brien, of Inchiquin, to this day justly known
as  Murrough of the burnings. These two men were the product of the  "refined policy" of England
to kill Catholicism in the higher  classes by the operation of one of the laws that governed
the  oppressed nation--wardship.

Both Inchiquin and Ormond were born of Catholic fathers, and all  their relations, during their
lives, remained Catholics. But,  their fathers dying during the minority of both, the law took
their education out of the hands of the nearest kin, to give it  to English Protestant wardens,
in the name of the king, who was  supposed by the law to be their legitimate guardian. This
was  one of the fruits of feudalism. They were duly brought up by  these wardens in the Protestant
religion, and received a  Protestant education. They grew up, fully impressed with the  idea
that the country which gave them birth was a barbarous  country; the parents to whom they owed
their lives were  idolaters; and their fellow-countrymen a set of villains, only  fitted to
become, and forever remain, paupers and slaves.

There is no exaggeration in these expressions, as anybody must  concede who has studied the
opinions and prejudices entertained  by the English with regard to the Irish, from that period
down  almost to our own days. At any rate, to one acquainted with the  workings of the "Court
of Wards," there is nothing surprising in  the fact that Ormond, the descendant of so many
illustrious men  of the great Butler family--a family at all times so attached to  the Catholic
faith, and which afterward furnished so many  victims to the transplantation schemes of Cromwell--should
himself become an inveterate enemy to the religion of his own  parents, and to those who professed
it; and that he should  employ the great gifts which God had granted him, solely to  scheme
against this religion, and prevent his native countrymen  from receiving even the scanty advantages
which Charles at one  time was willing to concede to them, through Lord Glanmorgan.

It was Ormond who prevented the execution of the treaty between  that lord and the confederates,
the provisions of which were--

1. The Catholics of Ireland were to enjoy the free and public  exercise of their religion.

2. They were to hold, and have secure for their use, all the  Catholic churches not then in
actual possession of Protestants.

3. They were to be exempt from the jurisdiction of the  Protestant clergy.

But, thanks to his education, such provisions were too much for  Ormond, the son of a Catholic
father, and whose mother, at the  very time living a pious and excellent life, would have rejoiced
to see those advantages secured to her Church and herself, in  common with the rest of her
countrymen and women.

In like manner, Murrough O'Brien, the Baron of Inchiquin, the  descendant of so many Catholic
kings and saints, whose name was  a glory in itself, and so closely linked to the Catholic
glories  of the island, was converted, by the education which he had  received, into a most
cruel oppressor of the Church of his  baptism. His expeditions, through the same country which
his  ancestors had ruled, were characterized by all the barbarities  practised at the time
by Munro, Coote, and all the parliamentary  leaders of the Scotch Puritans, and would have
fitted him as a  worthy compeer of Cromwell and Ireton, who were soon to follow.  The name
of Cashel and its cathedral, where he murdered so many  priests, women, and children, around
the altar adorned by the  great and good Cormac McCullinan, would alone suffice to hand  his
name down to the execration of posterity.

Ormond and Murrough being the two chiefs of the "peace party,"  what wonder that the prelates,
who had so earnestly labored at  the formation of the Kilkenny Confederation, and the Nuncio
at  their head, refused to have aught to do with projects in which  such men were concerned,
when it is borne in mind also that  several provisions of that "peace treaty" were directly
opposed  to the oath taken by the Confederates? But, unfortunately,  Ormond was a skilful diplomat,
had been dispatched by the king,  and was supposed to be carrying out the ideas suggested to
him  by the unhappy monarch. His representations, therefore, could  not fail to carry weight,
principally with the Anglo-Irish lords  of the Pale, many of whom, influenced by his courtly
manners and  address, declared openly for the proposed peace.

Thus did the peace sow the germs of division and even war among  the Irish. The unity among
the Catholics, so full of promise,  was soon broken up; and those who had met each other in
such a  brotherly spirit in the day when the native chiefs and Anglo- Irish lords assembled
together at Tara, who swore then that the  division of centuries should exist no longer, began
to look upon  each other again as enemies. Without going at length into the  vicissitudes of
those various contentions, it is enough to say  that in the end war broke out between those
who had so recently  taken the oath of confederation together. Owen Roe O'Neill, the  victor
of Benburb, and the only man who could direct the Irish  armies, was attacked by Preston and
other lords of the Pale, and  died, as some historians allege, of poison administered to him
by one of them.

This was the result of the intrigues of Ormond; nevertheless,  Charles continued to place confidence
in him, and though he had  been twice obliged to resign his lieutenancy, and once to fly  the
country, the infatuated sovereign sent him back once more.

If was only at the end of the struggle, when the ill-fated king  was at length in the hands
of his enemies, that Ormond could be  brought to consent to conditions acceptable to the national
party. But then it was too late; the parliamentary forces had  carried every thing before them
in England; England was already  republican to the core; and the armies which had been employed
against the Cavaliers, once the efforts of the latter had ceased  with the death of the king,
were at liberty to leave the country, now submissive to parliamentary rule, and cross over
to Ireland, with Cromwell at their head, to crush out the nation almost,  and concentrate on
that fated soil, within the short space of  nine months, all the horrors of past centuries.

By the death of Owen Roe O'Neill just at that time, Ireland was  left without a leader fit
to cope with the great republican  general. The country had already been devastated by Coote,
Munro, St. Leger, and other Scotch and English Puritans; but the  massacres which, until the
coming of Cromwell, had been, at  least, only local and checked by the troops of Owen Roe,
soon  extended throughout the island, unarrested by any forces in the  field. The Cromwellian
soldiers, not content with the character  of warriors, came as "avengers of the Lord," to destroy
an  "idolatrous people."

That their real design was to exterminate the nation, and use  the opportunity which then presented
itself for that purpose,  there can by no doubt. It was only after a fair trial that the  project
was found to be impossible, and that other expedients  were devised. Coote had previously acted
with this design in  view, as is now an ascertained fact, and had been encouraged in  the course
he pursued by the Dublin government. 1 (1 See Matthew  O'Connor's "Irish Catholics.") The same
might be shown of St.  Leger, in Munster, toward the beginning of the insurrection. At  all
events, all doubt in the matter, if any existed, ceased with  the landing of Cromwell in 1649,
when the real object of the war  at once showed itself everywhere.

The result of this man's policy has been painted by Villemain,  in his "Histoire de Cromwell,"
in a sentence: "Ireland became a  desert which the few remaining inhabitants described by the
mournful saying, 'There was not water enough to drown a man, not  wood enough to hang him,
not earth enough to bury him.'"

The French writer attributes to the whole island what was said  of only a part of it. To this
day, the name of Cromwell is  justly execrated in Ireland, and "the curse of Cromwell " is
one  of the bitterest which can be invoked upon a person's head. But,  at present, the fidelity
of the Irish to the Stuarts concerns us, and a few reflections will put it in a strong but
true light  before us.

Ever since the restoration of Charles II., many Englishmen have  professed great reverence
for the memory of the "martyr-king."  Even the subsequent Revolution of 1658 left the monument
erected  to him untouched. Many British families continued steady in  their devotion to the
Scotch line, and the name of Jacobite was  for them a title of honor. Yet what were their sufferings
for  the cause of the king during his struggle with the Parliament,  and after his execution?
A few noblemen lost their lives and  estates; some went into exile and followed the fortunes
of the  Pretenders who tried to gain possession of the throne. But the  bulk of the nation--England--may
be said to have suffered  nothing by the great revolution which led to the Commonwealth.  On
the contrary, it is acknowledged that the administration of  Cromwell at least brought peace
to the country, and raised the  power of Great Britain to a higher eminence in Europe than
it  had ever known before. As usual, the English made great  profession of loyalty, but, as
a rule, were particularly careful  that no great inconvenience should come to them from it.

Treated with contempt and distrust by Charles and his advisers,  so insulted in every thing
that was dear to her that it is still  a question for historians if, in many instances, the
king and  the royalists did not betray her, Ireland alone, after having  taken her stand for
a whole decade of years for God and the king, resolved to face destruction unflinchingly in
support of what  she imagined to be a noble cause.

After the landing of Cromwell, when to any sensible man there no 
longer remained hope of serving the cause of the king, when the 
desire which is natural to every human heart, of saving what can 
be saved, might, not only without dishonor, but with justice and 
right, have dictated the necessity of coming to terms with the 
parliamentarians, and of abandoning a cause which was hopeless, 
"on the 4th of December, 1649, Eber McMahon, Bishop of Clogher, 
a mere Irishman by name, by descent, by enthusiastic attachment 
to his country, exerted his great abilities to rouse his 
countrymen to a persevering resistance to Cromwell, and to unite 
all hearts and hands in the support of Ormond's administration. .
 . . All the bishops concurred in his views, and subscribed a 
solemn declaration that they would, to the utmost of their power,
forward his Majesty's rights, and the good of the nation. . . . 
Ormond, at last, either sensible that no reliance could be 
placed on them, or that the treachery of Inchiquin's troops was, 
at least, on the part of the Irish, a fair ground of distrust 
and suspicion of the remainder, consented to their removal."--
("Irish Catholics.")

"At last!" will be the reader's exclamation, while he wonders if  another people could be found
forbearing enough to wait eight  years for the adoption of such a necessary measure.

And the only reward for their fidelity to King Charles I. could  under the circumstances be
destruction. They waited with  resignation for the impending gloom to overshadow them. Terrible
moment for a nation, when despair itself fails to nerve it for  further resistance and possible
success! Such was the position  of the Irish at the death of Charles.

Who shall describe that loyalty? After Ormond had met with the  defeat he deserved in the field;
after the cities had fallen one  after another into the hands of the destroyer, who seldom
thought himself bound to observe the conditions of surrender;  after the chiefs, who might
have protracted the struggle, had  disappeared either by death or exile, the doom of the nation
was  sealed; yet it shrank not from the consequences.

The barbarities of Cromwell and his soldiers had depopulated  large tracts of territory to
such an extent that the troops  marching through them were compelled to carry provisions as
through a desert. The cattle, the only resource of an  agricultural country, had been all consumed
in a ten years' war.  It was reported that, after every successful engagement, the  republican
general ordered all the men from the age of sixteen  to sixty to be slaughtered without mercy,
all the boys from six  to sixteen to be deprived of sight, and the women to have a red- hot
iron thrust through their breasts. Rumors such as these,  exaggerated though they may be, testify
at least to the terror  which Cromwell inspired. As for the captured cities, there can  be
no doubt of the wholesale massacres carried out therein by  his orders. Of the entire population
of Tredagh only thirty  persons survived, and they were condemned to the labor of slaves. Hugh
Peters, the chaplain of Fairfax, wrote after this  barbarous execution: "We are masters of
Tredagh; no enemy was  spared; I just come from the church where I had gone to thank  the Lord."

The same fate awaited Wexford, and, later on, Drogheda. Cromwell, when narrating those bloody
massacres, concluded by saying,  "People blame me, but it was the will of God."

The Bible, the holy word of God, misread and misunderstood by  those fanatics, persuaded them
that it would be a crime not to  exterminate the Irish, as the Lord punished Saul for having
spared Agag and the chief of the Amalekites. Whoever wishes for  further details of these sickening
atrocities, committed in the  name of God, may find them in a multitude of histories of the
time, but chiefly in the "Threnodia" of Friar Morrison.

Certain modern Irish historians would seem not to understand the  heroism of their own countrymen.
"Bitterly," says A. M.  O'Sullivan, "did the Irish people pay for their loyalty to an  English
sovereign. Unhappily for their worldly fortunes, if not  for their fame, they were high-spirited
and unfearing, where  pusillanimity would certainly have been safety, and might have  been
only prudence."

But the verdict of posterity, always a just one, calls such a  high-spirited and unfearing
attitude true heroism, and spurns  pusillanimity even when it insures safety and may be called
prudence, if its result is the surrender of holy faith and  Christian truth. Safety and prudence
characterized the conduct  of the English nation under the iron rule of Cromwell, as under
the tyranny of the Tudors. Can the reader of history admire the  nation on that account? Who
shall affirm that the result of the  craven spirit of the English was the prosperity which
ensued,  and that of Irish heroism destruction and gloom? The history of  either nation is
far from ended yet; and bold would be the man  who dare assert that the prosperity of England
is everlasting,  and the humiliation of Ireland never to know an end.

However that may be, this at least is undeniable: the opinion  current of the Irish character
is demonstrated to be altogether  an erroneous one by the incontrovertible facts cursorily
narrated above. Determination of purpose, adherence to  conscience and principle, consistency
of conduct, are terms all  too weak to convey an idea of the magnanimity displayed by the 
people, and of their heroic bearing throughout those stirring  events.

At last, after a bloody struggle with Cromwell and Ireton, on  May 12, 1652, "the Leinster
army of the Irish surrendered at  Kilkenny on terms which were successively adopted by the
other  principal bodies of troops, between that time and the September  following, when the
Ulster forces came to composition." Then  began the real woes of Ireland. Never was the ingenuity
of man  so taxed to destroy a whole nation as in the measures adopted by  the Protector for
that purpose. It is necessary to present a  brief sketch of them, since all that the Irish
suffered was  designed to punish them for their attachment to their religion,  and, be it borne
in mind, their devotion to the lawful dynasty  of the Stuarts.

First, then, to render easy of execution the stern and cruel  resolve of the new government,
the defenders of the nation were  not only to be disarmed, but put out of the way. Hence Cromwell
was gracious enough to consent that they be permitted to leave  the country and take service
in the armies of the foreign powers  then at peace with the Commonwealth. Forty thousand men,
officers and soldiers, adopted this desperate resolution.

"Soon agents from the King of Spain, the King of Poland, and the  Prince de Conde, were contending
for the service of the Irish  troops. Don Ricardo White, in May, 1672, shipped seven thousand
in batches from Waterford, Kinsale, Galway, Limerick, and Bantry, for the King of Spain. Colonel
Christopher Mayo got liberty in  September to beat his drums, to raise three thousand more
for  the same destination. Lord Muskerry took with him five thousand  to the King of Poland.
In July, 1654, three thousand five  hundred went to serve the Prince de Conde. Sir Walter Dungan
and  others got liberty to beat their drums in different garrisons  for various destinations."--(Prendergast.)

To prove that the desperate resolution of leaving their country  did not originate with the
Irish, notwithstanding what some have  written to the contrary, it is enough to remark that
their  expatriation was made a necessary condition of their surrender  by the new government.
For instance, Lord Clanrickard, according  to Matthew O'Connor, "deserted and surrounded, could
obtain no  terms for the nation, nor indeed for himself and his troops,  except with the sad
liberty of transportation to any other  country in amity with the Commonwealth."

To prove, if necessary, still further that the expatriation of  the Irish troops was part of
a scheme already resolved upon, it  is enough to remember the indisputable fact that from the
surrender at Kilkenny in 1652, until the open announcement in  the September of 1653, that
the Parliament had assigned  Connaught for the dwelling-place of the Irish nation, whither
they were to be "transplanted" before the 1st of May, 1654, the  various garrisons and small
armies which had fought so gallantly  for Ireland and the Stuarts were successively urged (and
urged  by Cromwell meant compelled) to leave the country; and it was  only when the last of
the Irish regiments had departed that the  doom of the nation was boldly and clearly announced.

But these forced exiles were not restricted to the warrior class. "The Lord Protector," says
Prendergast, "applied to the Lord  Henry Cromwell, then major-general of the forces of Ireland,
to  engage soldiers . . . . and to secure a thousand young Irish  girls to be shipped to Jamaica.
Henry Cromwell answered that  there would be no difficulty, only that force must be used in
taking them; and he suggested the addition of fifteen hundred or  two thousand boys of from
twelve to fourteen years of age. . . .  The numbers finally fixed were one thousand boys and
one  thousand girls."

The total number of children disposed of in the same way, from  1652 to 1655, has been variously
estimated at from twenty  thousand to one hundred thousand. The British Government at last
was compelled to interfere and put a stop to the infamous  traffic, when, the mere Irish proving
too scarce, the agents  were not sufficiently discriminating in their choice, but  shipped
off English children also to the Tobacco Islands.

At last the island was left utterly without defenders, and  sufficiently depopulated. It is
calculated that, when the last  great measure was announced and put into execution, only half
a  million of Irish people remained in the country, the rest of the  resident population being
composed of the Scotch and English,  introduced by James I., and the soldiers and adventurers
let in  by Cromwell.

The main features of the celebrated "act of settlement" are  known to all. It was an act intended
to dispose quietly of half  a million human beings, destined certainly in the minds of its
projectors to disappear in due time, without any great violence-- to die off --and leave the
whole island in the possession of  the "godly."

Connaught is famed as being the wildest and most barren province  of Ireland. At the best,
it can support but a scanty population.  At this time it had been completely devastated by
a ten years'  war and by the excesses of the parliamentary forces. This  province then was
mercifully granted to the unhappy Irish race;  it was set apart as a paradise for the wretched
remnant to dwell  in all Connaught, except a strip four miles wide along the sea,  and a like
strip along the right bank of the Shannon. This  latter judicious provision was undoubtedly
intended to prevent  them from dwelling by the ocean, whence they might derive  subsistence
or assistance, or means of escape in the event of  their ever rising again; and, on the other
hand, from crossing  the Shannon, on the east side of which their homes might still  be seen.
This cordon of four miles' width was drawn all around  what was the Irish nation, and filled
with the fiercest zealots  of the "army of the Lord" to keep guard over the devoted victims.

Surely the doom of the race was at last sealed!

But let all justice be done to the Protector. The act was to the  effect that, on the first
day of May, 1654, all who, throughout  the war, had not displayed a constant good affection
to the  Parliament of England in opposition to Charles I., were to be  removed with their families
and servants to the wilds of a poor  and desolated province, where certain lands were to be
given  them in return for their own estates. But, who of the Irish  could prove that they had
displayed a "constant good affection"  to the English Parliament during a ten years' war? The
act was  nothing less than a proscription of the whole nation. The  English of the Pale were
included among the old natives, and  even a few Protestant royalists, who had taken of the
cause of  the fallen Stuarts. The only exception made was in favor of  "husbandmen, ploughmen,
laborers, artificers, and others of the  inferior sort." The English and Scotch--constituted
by this act  of settlement lords and masters of the three richest provinces  of Ireland-- could
not condescend to till the soil with their  own hands and attend to the mechanical arts required
in civil  society. Those duties were reserved for the Irish poor. It was  hoped that, deprived
of their nobility and clergy, they might be  turned to any account by their new masters, and
either become  good Protestants or perish as slaves. Herein mentita est  iniquitas sibi.

The heart-rending details of this outrage on humanity may be  seen in Mr. Prendergast's "Cromwellian
Settlement." There all  who read may form some idea of the extent of Ireland's  misfortunes.

It is a wonder which cannot fail to strike the reader, how,  after so many precautions had
been taken, not only against the  further increase of the race, but for its speedy demolition,
how, reduced to a bare half million, penned off on a barren tract of  land, left utterly at
the mercy of its persecutors, without  priests, without organization of any kind, it not only
failed to  perish, but, from that time, has gone on, steadily increasing,  until to-day it
spreads out wide and far, not only on the island  of its birth, but on the broad face of two
vast continents.

In the space at our disposal, it is impossible to satisfy the  curiosity of the reader on this
very curious and interesting  topic. A few remarks, however, may serve to broadly indicate
the  chief causes of this astonishing fact, taken apart from the  miraculous intervention of
God in their favor.

First, then, Connaught became more Irish than ever, and a  powerful instrument, later on, to
assist in the resurrection of  the nation. In fact, as will soon be seen, it preserved life
to  it. Again, the outcasts, who were allowed to remain in the other  three provinces as servants,
or slaves, rather, were not found  manageable on the score of religion; and, although new acts
of  Parliament forbade any bishop or priest to remain in the island,  many did remain, some
of them coming back from the Continent,  whither they had been exported, to aid their unfortunate
countrymen in this their direst calamity.

As Matthew O'Connor rightly says : "The ardent zeal, the  fortitude and calm resignation of
the Catholic clergy during  this direful persecution, might stand a comparison with the  constancy
of Christians during the first ages of the Church. In  the season of prosperity they may have
pushed their pretensions  too far"--this is M. O'Connor's private opinion of the  Confederation
of Kilkenny-- "but, in the hour of trial, they  rose superior to human infirmities. . . . Sooner
than abandon  their flocks altogether, they fled from the communion of men,  concealed themselves
in woods and caverns, from whence they  issued, whenever the pursuit of their enemies abated,
to preach  to the people, to comfort them in their afflictions, to  encourage them in their
trials;. . . their haunts were objects  of indefatigable search; bloodhounds, the last device
of human  cruelty, were employed for the purpose, and the same price was  set on the head of
a priest as on that of a wolf."--(Irish  Catholics.)

But, the expectation that the Irish of the lower classes, bereft  of their pastors as well
as of the guidance of their chieftains,  would fall a prey to proselytizing ministers, and
lose at once  their nationality and their religion, was doomed to meet with  disappointment.

Perhaps the cause more effective than all others in preserving  the Irish nation from disappearing
totally, came from a quarter  least expected, or rather the most improbable and wonderful.

No device seemed better calculated to succeed in Protestantizing  Ireland than the decree of
Parliament which set forth that not  only the officers, but even the common soldiers of the
parliamentary army should be paid for their services, not in  money, but in land; and that
the estates of the old owners  should be parcelled out and distributed among them in payment,
as well as among those who, in England, had furnished funds for  the prosecution of the war.
Although many soldiers objected to  this mode of compensation, some selling for a trifle the
land  allotted to them and returning to their own country, the great  majority was compelled
to rest satisfied with the government  offer, and so resolved to settle down in Ireland and
turn  farmers. But a serious difficulty met them: women could not be  induced to abandon their
own country and go to dwell in the  sister isle, while the Irish girls, being all Catholics,
a  decree of Parliament forbade the soldiers to marry them, unless  they first succeeded in
converting them to Protestantism. After  many vain attempts, doubtless, the Cromwellian soldiers
soon  found the impossibility of bringing the "refractory" daughters  of Erin to their way
of thinking, and could find only one mode  of bridging over the difficulty--to marry them first,
without  requiring then to apostatize; and secure their prize after by  swearing that their
wives were the most excellent of Protestants. Thus while perjury became an every-day occurrence,
the  victorious army began to be itself vanquished by a powerful  enemy which it had scarcely
calculated upon, and was utterly  unprepared to meet, and finally resting from its labors,
enjoyed  the sweets of peace and the fat of the land.

But woman, once she feels her power, is exacting, and in course  of time the Cromwellian soldiers
found that further sacrifices  still were required of them, which they had never counted upon.
Their wives could, by no persuasion, be induced to speak English, so that, however it might
go against the grain, the husbands  were compelled to learn Irish and speak it habitually as
best  they might. Their difficulties began to multiply with their  children, when they found
them learning Irish in the cradle,  irresistible in their Irish wit and humor, and lisping
the  prayers and reverencing the faith they had learned at their  mothers' knees. So that,
from that time to this, the posterity  of Cromwell's "Ironsides," of such of them at least
as remained  in Ireland, have been devoted Catholics and ardent Irishmen.

The case was otherwise with the chief officers of the  parliamentary army, who had received
large estates and could  easily obtain wives from England. They remained stanch  Protestants,
and their children have continued in the religion  received with the estates which came to
them from this wholesale  confiscation. But the bulk of the army, instead of helping to  form
a Protestant middle class and a Protestant yeomanry, has  really helped to perpetuate the sway
of the Catholic religion in  Ireland, and the feeling of nationality so marked to-day. This
very remarkable fact has been well established and very plainly  set forth, a few years ago,
by eminent English reviewers.

Meanwhile, Ireland was a prey to all the evils which can afflict  a nation. Pestilence was
added to the ravages of war and the  woes of transplantation, and it raged alike among the
conquerors  and the conquered. Friar Morrisson's "Threnodia" reads to-day  like an exaggerated
lament, the burden of which was drawn from a  vivid imagination. Yet can there be little doubt
that it  scarcely presented the whole truth; an exact reproduction of all  the heart-rending
scenes then daily enacted in the unfortunate  island would prove a tale as moving as ever harrowed
the pitying  heart of a reader.

And all this suffering was the direct consequence of two things-- the attachment of the Irish
to the Catholic religion, and their  devotion to the Stuart dynasty. Modern historians, in
considering all the circumstances, express themselves unable to  understand the constancy of
this people's affection for a line  of kings from whom they had invariably experienced, not
only  neglect, but positive opposition, if not treachery. In their  opinion, only the strangest
obliquity of judgment can explain  such infatuation. Some call it stupidity; but the Irish
people  have never been taxed with that. Even in the humblest ranks of  life among them, there
exists, not only humor, but a keenness of  perception, and at times an extraordinary good sense,
which is  quick to detect motives, and find out what is uppermost in the  minds of others.

There is but one reading of the riddle, consistent with the  whole character of the people:
they clung to the Stuarts because  they were obedient to the precepts and duties of religion,
and  labored under the belief, however mistaken, that from the  Stuarts alone could they hope
for any thing like freedom. Their  spiritual rulers had insisted on the duty of sustaining
at all  hazard the legitimate authority of the king, and they were  firmly convinced that they
could expect from no other a  relaxation of the religious penal statutes imposed on them by
their enemies. The more frequent grew their disappointments in  the measures adopted by the
sovereigns on whom they had set  their hopes, the more firmly were they convinced that their
intentions were good, but rendered futile by the men who  surrounded and coerced them.

Religion can alone explain this singular affection of the Irish  people for a race which, in
reality, has caused the greatest of  their misfortunes.

The subsequent events of this strange history are in perfect  keeping with those preceding.
A few words will suffice to sketch  them.

On the death of Oliver Cromwell, his son Richard, being unable  and indeed unwilling to remain
at the head of the English state,  the nation, tired of the iron rule of the Protector, fearful
certainly of anarchy, and preferring the conservative measures  of monarchy to the ever-changing
revolutions of a commonwealth,  recalled the son of Charles I. to the throne.

But a kind of bargain had been struck by him with those who  disposed of the crown; and he
undertook and promised to disturb  as little as possible the vested interests created by the
revolution, that is to say, he pledged himself to let the  settlement of property remain as
he found it. In England that  promise was productive of little mischief to the nation at large,
though fatal to the not very numerous families who had been  deprived of their estates by the
Parliament. But, in Ireland, it  was a very different matter; for there the interests of the
whole nation were ousted to make room for these "vested  interests" of proprietors of scarcely
ten years' standing.

The Irish nobility and gentry, at first unaware of the existence  of this bargain, were in
joyful expectation that right would at  last be done them, as it was for loyalty to the father
of the  new king that they had been robbed of all their possessions.  They were soon undeceived.
To their surprise, they learned that  the speculators, army-officers, and soldiers already
in  possession of their estates, were not to be disturbed, short as  the possession had been;
and that only such lands as were yet  unappropriated should be returned to their rightful owners,
provided only they were not papists, or could prove that they  had been "innocent papists."

The consequences of this bargain are clear. The Irish of the old  native race who had been,
as now appeared, so foolishly ardent  in their loyalty to the throne, were to be abandoned
to the fate  to which Cromwell had consigned them, and could expect to  recover nothing of
what they had so nobly lost. So flagrantly  unjust was the whole proceeding, that after a time
many  Englishmen even saw the injustice of the decision, and lifted up  their voices in defence
of the Irish Catholics who alone could  hope for nothing from the restoration of royalty. To
put a stop  to this, the infamous "Oates" fabrication was brought forward,  which destroyed
a number of English Catholic families and  stifled the voice of humanity in its efforts to
befriend the  Irish race; and so sudden, universal, and lasting, was the  effect of this plot
in closing the eyes of all to the claims of  the Irish, that when its chief promoter, Shaftesbury,
was  dragged to the Tower and there imprisoned as a miscreant, and  Oates himself suffered
a punishment too mild for his villany,  nevertheless no one thought of again taking up the
cause of the  Irish natives.

It is almost impossible in these days to realize what has  occupied our attention in this chapter.
The unparalleled act of  spoliation by which four-fifths of the Irish nation were  deprived
of their property by Cromwell because of their devotion  to Charles I., for the alleged reason
that they could not prove  a constant good affection for the English regicide Parliament, 
that spoliation was ratified by the son of Charles within a few  years after the rightful owners,
who had sacrificed their  property for the sake of his father, had been dispossessed,  while
the parliamentarians, who by force of arms had broken down  the power of Charles and enabled
the members of the Long  Parliament to try their king and bring him to the block, those  very
soldiers and officers were left in possession of their ill- gotten plunder, at a time when
many of the owners were only a  few miles away in Connaught, or even inhabiting the out-houses
of their own mansions, and tilling the soil as menial servants  of Cromwell's troopers.

The case, apparently similar, which occurred in after-years, of  the French emigrant nobility,
cannot be compared with the result  of this strange concession of Charles II. In fact, it may
be  said that the spoliations of 1792-'93 in France would probably  never have taken place
but for the successful example held up to  the eyes of the legislators of the French Republic
by the  English Revolution.

As for the share which Charles II. himself bore in the measure,  it is best told by the fact
that the work of spoliation was  carried on so vigorously during the reign of the "merry monarch,"
that when a few years later William of Orange came to the  throne there was no land left for
him to dispose of among his  followers save the last million of acres. All the rest had been
portioned off. Well might Dr. Madden say: "The whole of Ireland  has been so thoroughly confiscated
that the only exception was  that of five or six families of English blood, some of whom had
been attainted in the reign of Henry VIII., but recovered  flourished ever since. Yet did they
not refuse the accessory  with the principal. Deluded men they may be called by many; but 
people cannot ordinarily understand the high motives which move  men swayed only by the twofold
feeling of religion and nationality.

Nothing in our opinion could better prove that the Irish were  really a nation, at the time
we speak of, than the remarks just  set forth. When all minds are so unanimous, the wills so
ready,  the arms so strong and well prepared to strike together, it must  be admitted that
in the whole exists a common feeling, a  national will. Self-government may be wanting; it
may have been  suppressed by sheer force and kept under by the most unfavorable  state of affairs,
but the nation subsists and cannot fail  ultimately to rise.

In those eventful times shone forth too that characteristic  which has already been remarked
upon of a true conservative  spirit and instinctive hatred for every principle which in our
days is called radical and revolutionary. Had there existed in  the Irish disposition the least
inclination toward those social  and moral aberrations, productive to-day of so many and such
widespread evils, surely the period of the English Revolution  was the fitting time to call
them forth, and turn them from  their steady adherence to right and order into the new channels,
toward which nations were being then hurried, and which would  really have favored for the
time being their own efforts for  independence. Then would the Irish have presented to future
historians as stirring an episode of excitement and activity as  was furnished by the English
and Scotch at that time, by the  French later on, and which to-day most European nations offer.

The temptation was indeed great. They saw with what success  rebellion was rewarded among the
English and Scotch. They  themselves were sure to be stamped as rebels whichever side they
took; and, as was seen, Charles II. allowed his commissioners in  his act of settlement so
to style them, and punish them for it--  for supporting the cause of his father against the
Parliament.

Would it not have been better for them to have become once, at  least, rebels in true earnest,
and reap the same advantage from  rebellion which all around them reaped? Yet did they stand
proof  against the demoralizing doctrines of Scotch Covenanter and  English republican. Hume,
who was openly adverse to every thing  Irish, is compelled to describe this Catholic people
as "loyal  from principle, attached to regal power from religious education, uniformly opposing
popular frenzy, and zealous vindicators of  royal prerogatives."

All this was in perfect accord with their traditional spirit and  historical recollections.
Revolutionary doctrines have always  been antagonistic to the Irish mind and heart. This will
appear  more fully when recent times come under notice, and it may be a  surprise to some to
find that, with the exception of a few  individuals, who in nowise represent the nation, the
latest and  favorite theories of the world, not only on religion, science,  and philosophy,
but likewise on government and the social state,  have never found open advocates among them.
They, so far,  constitute the only nation untouched, as yet, by the blight  which is passing
over and withering the life of modern society.  Thus, it may be said that the exiled nobility
still rules in  Ireland by the recollection of the past, though there can no  longer exist
a hope of reconstructing an ancient order which has  passed away forever. The prerogatives
once granted to the  aristocratic classes are now disowned and repudiated on all  sides; in
Ireland they would be submitted to with joy tomorrow,  could the actual descendants of the
old families only make good  their claims. It must not be forgotten that the Irish nobility,
as a class, deserved well of their country, sacrificed  themselves for it when the time of
sacrifice came, and therefore  it is fitting that they should live in the memory of the people
that sees their traces but finds them not. The dream of finding  rulers for the nation from
among those who claim to be the  descendants of the old chieftains, is a dream and nothing
more;  but, even still to many Irishmen, it is within the compass of  reality, so deeply ingrained
is their conservative spirit, and  so completely, in this instance, at least, are they free
from  the influx of modern ideas.

The Stuarts, then, were supported by the Irish, not merely from  religious, but also from national
motives, inasmuch as that  family was descended from the line of Gaelic kings, and, however
unworthy they themselves may have been, their rights were upheld  and acknowledged against
all comers. But, the Stuarts gone,  allegiance was flung to the winds.

The success of Cromwell and his republic was the doom of all  prospects of the reunion of the
two islands; and the subsequent  Revolution of 1688, which commenced so soon after the death
of  the Protector, left the Irish in the state in which the  struggles of four hundred years
with the Plantagenets and Tudors  had placed and left them in relation to their connection
with  England--a state of antagonism and mutual repulsion, wherein the  Irish nation, the victim
of might, was slowly educated by  misfortune until the time should come for the open  acknowledgment
of right.

CHAPTER XII.

A CENTURY OF GLOOM.--THE PENAL LAWS.

William III., of Orange, was inclined to observe, in good faith,  the articles agreed upon
at the surrender of Limerick, namely,  to allow the conquered liberty of worship, citizen rights,
so  much as remained to them of their property, and the means for  personal safety recognized
before the departure of Sarsfield and  his men.

The lords justices even issued a proclamation commanding "all  officers and soldiers of the
army and militia, and all other  persons whatsoever, to forbear to do any wrong or injury,
or to  use unlawful violence to any of his Majesty's subjects, whether  of the British or Irish
nation, without distinction, and that  all persons taking the oath of allegiance, and behaving
themselves according to law, should be deemed subjects under  their Majesties' protection,
and be equally entitled to the  benefit of the law."--(Harris, "Life of William.")

This first proclamation not having been generally obeyed,  another was published denouncing
"the utmost vengeance of the  law against the offenders;" and the author above quoted adds
that "the satisfaction given to the Irish was a source of  lasting gratitude to the person
and government of William."

It is even asserted that, not only did the new monarch thus  ratify the treaty of Limerick,
but that "he inserted in the  ratification a clause of the last importance to the Irish, which
had been omitted in the draught signed by the lords justices and  Sarsfield. That clause extended
the benefits of the capitulation  to "all such as were under the protection of the Irish army
in  the counties of Limerick, Clare, Kerry, Cork, and Mayo. A great  quantity of Catholic property
depended on the insertion of this  clause in the ratification, and the English Privy Council
hesitated whether to take advantage of the omission. The honesty  of the king declared it to
be a part of the articles."

The final confirmation was issued from Westminster on February  24, 1692, in the name of William
and Mary.

But the party which had overcome the honest leanings of James I., if he ever had any, and of
his son and grandson, was at this  time more powerful than ever, and could not consent to extend
the claims of justice and right to the conquered. This party was  the Ulster colony, which
Cromwell's settlement had spread to the  two other provinces of Leinster and Munster, and which
was  confirmed in its usurpation by the weakness of the second  Charles. The motives for the
bitter animosity which caused it to  set its face against every measure involving the scantiest
justice toward its fellow-countrymen may be summed up in two  words--greed and fanaticism.

Until the time when the first of the Stuarts ascended the  English throne, all the successive
spoliations of Ireland, even  the last under Elizabeth, at the end of the Geraldine war, were
made to the advantage of the English nobility. Even the younger  sons of families from Lancashire,
Cheshire, and Dorsetshire, who  "planted" Munster after the ruin of the Desmonds, had noble
blood in their veins, and were consequently subject more or less  to the ordinary prejudices
of feudal lords. The life of the  agriculturist and grazier was too low down in the social
scale  to catch their supercilious glance. The consequence of which was, that the Catholic
tenants of Munster were left undisturbed in  their holdings. Instead of the "dues" exacted
by their former  chieftains, they now paid rent to their new lords.

But the rabble let loose on the island by James I. was afflicted  with no such dainty notions
as these. To supercilious glances  were substituted eyes keen as the Israelites', for the "main
chance." The new planters, intent only on profit and gain,  thought with the French peasant
of an after-date, that, for  landed estate to produce its full value, "there is nothing like
the eye of a master." The Irish peasant was therefore removed  from at least one-half the farms
of Ulster, and driven to live  as best he might among the Protestant lords of Munster. And
in  order to have an entirely Protestant "plantation," it became  incumbent on the new owners
so to frame the legislation as to  deprive the Irish Catholics of any possibility of recovering
their former possessions. Thus, laws were passed declaring null  and void all purchases made
by "Irish papists."

Who has not witnessed, at some period in his life, the effect  produced on the people in his
neighborhood by one avaricious but  wealthy man, intent only on increasing his property, and
profiting by the slavish labor of the poor under his control?  Who has not detested, in his
inmost soul, the grinding tyranny  of the miser gloating over the hard wealth which he has
wrung  from the misery and tears of all around him, and who boasts of  the cunning shrewdness,
the success of which is only too visible  in the desolation that encircles him? Imagine such
scenes  enacted throughout a large territory, beginning with Ulster,  spreading thence to Munster
and Connaught, and finally through  the whole island, and we have an exact picture of the effects
of  the Protestant "plantation." Each year, almost, of the  seventeenth century witnessed fresh
swarms of these foreign  adventurers settling on the island, interrupted in their  operations
only by the Confederation of Kilkenny, but  multiplying faster and faster after the destruction
of that  truly national government, until at the time now under our  consideration, "Scotch
thrift," as it is called, had become the  chief virtue of most of the owners of land--Scotch
thrift, which  is but another name for greed.

It were easy to show, by long details, that this great  characteristic of the new "plantation"
would suffice to explain  that general and terrible pauperism which has since become the  striking
feature of once-happy Ireland. But only a few words can  be allowed.

It is the fanaticism of the new "planters" which will chiefly  occupy our attention. These
were composed, first, of the Scotch  Presbyterians of Knox, whom James I. had dispatched, and
afterward of the ranting soldiers and officers of Cromwell's  army, more Jew than Christian,
since their mouths were ever  filled with Bible texts of that particular character wherein
the  wrath of God is denounced against the impious and cruel tribes  of Palestine. It is doubtful
whether the ideas of God and man,  promulgated and spread among the people by Calvin and Knox,
have  ever been equalled in evil consequences by the most  superstitious beliefs of ancient
pagans. Let us look well at  those teachings. According to them, God is the author of evil:
he issues forth his decrees of election or reprobation,  irrespective of merit or demerit;
inflicting eternal torments on  innumerable souls which never could have been saved, and for
whom the Son of God did not die. What any rational being must  consider as the most revolting
cruelty and injustice, these men  called acts of pure justice executed by the hand of God.
God  saves blindly those whom he saves, and takes them home to his  bosom, though reeking with
the unrepented and unexpiated crimes  of their lives--unexpiable, in fact, on the part of man--merely
because they persuade themselves that they are of "the elect."

In that system, man is a mere machine, unendowed with the  slightest symptom of free-will,
but inflated with the most  overbearing pride; deeming all others but those of his sect the
necessary objects of the blind wrath of God, cast off and  reprobate from all eternity in the
designs of Providence; for  whom "the elect" can feel no more pity or affection than  redeemed
men can for the arch-fiend himself, both being alike  redeemless and unredeemed.

No system of pretended religion, invented by the perverted mind  of man, under the inspiration
of the Evil One, could go further  in atrocity than this.

Yet such was the pure, undiluted essence of Calvinism in its  beginning. In our times its doctrines
have been radically  modified, as its adherents could not escape the soothing  operations of
time and calm reason. But, at the period of which  we speak, its absurd and revolting tenets
were fresh, and taken  religiously to the letter.

The new colonists, therefore, believed, and acted on the belief,  that all men outside of their
own body were the enemies of God  and had God for their enemy. What a convenient doctrine for
men  of an "itching palm! " The papists, in particular, were worse  than idolaters, and to
"root them out" was only to render a  service to God. In the event of this holy desire not
being  altogether possible of execution, the nearest approach to the  goodly work was to strip
them of all rights, and render the life  of such reprobates more miserable than the death which
was to  condemn them to the eternal torments planned out for them in the  eternal decrees,
and so give them a foretaste here of the life  destined for them hereafter.

The reader, then, may understand how the Scotch Presbyterians of  the time, overflowing as
they were with free and republican  ideas as far as regarded their own welfare, when it came
to a  question of extending the same to their Catholic fellow-men, if  they would have admitted
the term, scouted such a preposterous  and ungodly idea. These latter were unworthy the enjoyment
of  such benefit. And thus the hoot of Protestant ascendancy,  "Protestant liberty and right!
" came up as war-cries to stifle  out all efforts tending to extend even the most ordinary
privileges of the liberty which is man's by nature, to any but  Protestants of the same class
as themselves.

Here a curious reflection, full of meaning, and causing the mind  almost to mock at the type
of a free constitution, presents  itself. The eighteenth century witnessed the development
of the  British Constitution as now known. It embraced in its bosom all  British citizens,
raising up the nation to the pinnacle of  material prosperity, while at the same time and all
through it,  whole classes of citizens of the British Empire, both in Great  Britain and Ireland,
were openly, unblushingly, legally, without  a thought of mercy or pity--not to mention such
an ugly word as  logic--denied the protection of the common charter and the  common rights.

Under Cromwell the doctrines of Calvin and Knox did not show  themselves quite so obtrusively.
The officers and soldiers of  his armies, in common with their general, thought the  Presbyterian
Kirk too aristocratic and unbending. They formed a  new sect of Independents, now called Congregationalists.
But the  chief feature of the new religious system became as productive  of evil to Ireland
as the stern dogmas of Calvin ever could be.  The principle that the Scriptures constituted
the only rule of  faith was beginning to bear its fruits. It is needless to remark  that Holy
Scripture, when abandoned to the free interpretation  of all, becomes the source of many errors,
as it may be the  source of many crimes. The historian and novelist even have ere  now frequently
told us to what purpose the "Word of God " was  manipulated by Scottish Covenanter and Cromwellian
freebooter.

The Covenanter, or freebooter, saw in the antagonists of his  "real rebellion" and opposers
of the designs of his dark policy,  only the enemies of God and the adversaries of his Providence.
He believed himself divinely commissioned to destroy Catholics  and butcher innocent women
and children, as the armies of Joshua  were authorized to fight against Amalek, and possess
themselves  of a country occupied by a people whose cruel idolatry was  ineradicable, and rendered
them absolutely irreconcilable. Thus  to the stern and odious tenets of Calvinism the new invaders
joined the fanaticism of self-deluded Jews, never having  received any commission from the
God whom they blasphemed, yet  bearing themselves with all the solemnity of his instruments.

There is consequently nothing to surprise us in the atrocities  committed by the Scotch troops
in 1641, when they first invaded  the island from the north, as little as there is in the numerous
massacres which first attended the march of the troops of  Cromwell, Ireton, and other leaders,
and which were only  discontinued when the voice of Europe rose up in revolt at the  recital,
and they themselves became thoroughly convinced that  the complete destruction of the people
was impossible, and the  only next best thing to be done was to export as many as could  be
exported and reduce the rest to slavery.

Thus did the new colony commence its workings, and it is easy to  comprehend how such intensely
Protestant doctrines, remaining  implanted in the breasts of the people who came to make Ireland
their home, could not fail to oppose an insurmountable barrier  to the fusion of the new and
the old inhabitants, and impart a  fearful reality to the theory of "Protestant ascendancy"
and  "Protestant liberty and right "--the liberty and right to  oppress those of another creed.

These watchwords form the key to the understanding of all the  miseries and woes of Irishmen
during the whole of the eighteenth  century. We now turn to contemplate the commencement of
the  workings of this fanatic intolerance which ushered in the  century of gloom.

The lords justices had just returned, after concluding the  treaty of peace with Sarsfield,
when the first mutterings of the  thunder were heard that presaged the coming storm. Dr. Dopping,
the Protestant Bishop of Meath, while preaching before them on  the Sunday following their
return to Dublin, reproached them  openly in Christ Church for their indulgence to the Irish,
and  urged that no faith was to be kept with such a cruel and  perfidious race. This sort of
doctrine has been heard before,  and from men of the stamp of Dr. Dopping; it is still heard
every day, but it is generally thrown into the teeth of  Catholics and saddled on them as their
doctrine, however  frequently refuted.

The doctor stated broadly that with such people no treaties were  binding, and that therefore
the articles of Limerick were not to  be observed.

William and his Irish government endeavored to check this  intemperance; but the feelings of
the sectarians were too ardent  to be thus easily smothered, and the greater the opposition
they  encountered, the more they insisted on proclaiming their views,  to which naturally they
gained many adherents among the  colonists of the Protestant plantation.

The Irish Parliament soon assembled in Dublin. The majority,  imbued with the gloomy Calvinism
of the times, and fearing to  face the opposition of the respectable minority of Catholic 
members, who had come to take their seats, passed an act  imposing a new oath, in contradiction
to one of the articles of  the treaty. That oath included an abjuration of James's right de
jure, a renunciation of the spiritual authority of the Pope, and  (as though that were not
enough to exclude Catholics) a  declaration against the doctrine of transubstantiation and
other  fundamental tenets of their creed. Persons who refused to take  this oath were debarred
from all offices and emoluments, as well  as from both Houses of the Irish Parliament.

The Catholic members were compelled to withdraw at once; and no  Catholic ever took part in
the legislation of his own country  from that day until the Emancipation in 1829.

After this withdrawal, which in the times of the French  Convention would have been called
an epuration, the Irish  Parliament became the bane of the country. In fact, it only  represented
parliamentary England, and subjected Ireland to  every measure required by English ultraists
for the attainment  of their selfish purposes. Possessed by a gloomy fanaticism, its  main
object was to root out of the island every vestige that  remained of the religion which had
once flourished there. All  its legislative spirit was concentrated in the two questions: 
Are the laws already in existence against the further growth of  Popery rigidly enforced? and,
cannot some new law be introduced  to further the same object.?

But it is very pertinent to our purpose to give a sketch of  those good laws, as Wharton calls
them, before seeing how the  Irish preferred to submit to them rather than lose their faith
by "conforming." The subject has been already investigated by  many writers, and of late far
more completely than formerly. But  the authors never presented the laws as a whole, contenting
themselves, for the most part, by transcribing them in the  chronological order in which they
were enacted, or, if  occasionally they endeavored to combine and thus present a more  striking
idea of the effect which such laws must have produced  on the people, they were never, as far
as is known to the writer, reduced to a plan, and consequently fail to bring forth the  effect
intended to be produced by them.

It is impossible here to give the text of those various laws--  impossible even to give a fairly
accurate idea of the whole.  They shall be classified, however, to the best of our ability,
and as fully as circumstances permit.

Mr. Prendergast seems to consider their ultimate object always  to have been the robbing of
the Irish of their lands, or  securing the plunder if already in possession. That this was
one  of the great objects always kept in view in their enactment, we  do not feel inclined
to contest; but that it was their only or  even chief cause, we may be allowed to question,
with the  greatest deference to the opinion of the celebrated author of  the often-quoted "Cromwellian
Settlement."

We believe those laws to have been produced chiefly by sectarian  fanaticism; or, if some of
their framers, such as Lord Wharton,  possessed no religious feelings of any kind, and could
not be  called fanatics, their intent was to pander to the real  fanaticism of the English
people, as it existed at the time, and  particularly of the colony planted in Ireland, which
hated  Popery to the death, and would have given all its possessions  and lands for the destruction
of the Scarlet Woman.

In order to attain the great result proposed, the aim of the  "penal statute" was one in its
very complexity. For it had to  deal with complex rights, which it took away one after another
until the unity of the system was completed by the suppression  of them all.

We classify these under the heads of political, civil, and human  rights. The result of the
whole policy was to degrade the Irish  to the level of the wretched helots under Sparta, with
this  difference: while the slaves of the Lacedaemonians numbered but  a few thousands, the
Irish were counted by millions.

The system, as a whole, was the work of time, and, under William  of Orange--even under Queen
Anne--it had not yet attained its  maturity, though the principal and the severest measures
were  carried and put in force from the very beginning. The ingenious  little devices regarding
short and small leases, the possession  of valuable horses, etc., were mere fanciful adjuncts
which the  witty and inventive legislators of the Hanoverian dynasty were  happy enough to
find unrecorded in the statute-books, and which  they had the honor of setting there, and thus
adding a new  piquancy and vigorous flavor to the whole dish.

Toward the middle of the eighteenth century, the system may be  said to have reached its perfection.
After that time it would,  in all likelihood, have been impossible to improve further, and
render the yoke of slavery heavier and more galling to the Irish. The beauty and simplicity
of the whole consisted in the fact  that the great majority of these measures were not decreed
in so  many positive and express terms against Catholics in the form of  open and persecuting
statutes. It was merely mentioned in the  laws that, to enjoy such and such a particular right,
it was  necessary that every subject of the crown should take such and  such an oath, which
no Catholic could take. Thus, the entire  Irish population was set between their religion and
their rights, and at any moment, by merely taking the oath, they were at  liberty to enjoy
all the privileges which rendered the colonists  living in their midst so happy and contented,
and so proud of  their "Protestant ascendency."

It was hoped, no doubt, that, if at first and for a certain time, the faith of the Irish would
stand proof and prompt them to  sacrifice every thing held dear in life, rather than surrender
that faith, nevertheless, worn out at length, and disheartened  by wretchedness, unable longer
to sustain their heavy burden,  they would finally succumb, and, by the mere action of such
an  easy thing as recording an oath in accordance with the law,  though against their conscience,
become men and citizens. It was  what the French Conventionalists of 1793 called "desoler la
patience" of their victims.

This unholy hope was disappointed; and, with the exception of a  comparatively few weak Christians
among their number, the nation  stood firm and preferred the "ignominy of the cross of Christ"
to the enjoyments of this perishable life.

Their political rights were, as was seen, the first to be taken  away. The Parliament of 1691
required of its members the oath  referred to, and for the repudiation of which, all the Catholic
members were compelled at once to withdraw. But the contrivance  of swearing being found such
an excellent instrument to use  against men possessed of a conscience, the ruling body--now
reduced to the former Protestant majority--required that the  same oath be taken by all electors,
magistrates, and officers of  whatever grade, from the highest to the lowest in the land.

The oath itself was an elastic formula, capable of being  stretched or contracted, according
to circumstances, so that, by  the addition of an incidental phrase or two, it might be framed
to meet new exigencies, and give expression to the lively  imagination of ingenious members
of Parliament. It would be  curious to collect an account of the variety of shapes it  assumed,
and to comment on the different occasions which gave  rise to these different developments.
A long history of  persecuting frenzy might thus be condensed into a commentary of  a comparatively
few pages. Even at the so-called Catholic  Emancipation it was not abolished; on the contrary,
it was  sacredly preserved, and two new formulas drawn up, the one for  the Protestant and
the other for the Catholic members of the  legislature, Lords and Commons, and so it remains,
to this day,  except that the most offensive clauses of the last century have  disappeared.

Imagine, then, the spectacle offered by the island whenever an  election for representatives,
magistrates, or petty officers,  took place; whenever those entitled to select holders of offices
which were not subject to election, made known the persons of  their choice. This vast array
of aristocratic masters was chosen  from the ranks of the English colonists, and had for its
avowed  object to preserve the Protestant ascendency, and consequently  grind under the heel
of the most abject oppression the whole  mass of the population of the island. There was no
other meaning  in all these political combinations and changes, recurring  periodically, and
heralded forth by the voice of the press and  the thunder of the hustings. Politics in Ireland
was nothing  else than the expression given to the despotism of an  insignificant minority
over almost the entire body of the people. For, despite all their repressive measures, the
enemies of the  Catholic faith could never pretend even to a semblance in point  of numbers,
much less to a majority, over the children of the  creed taught by Patrick. Ireland remained
Catholic throughout;  and its oppressors could not fail to feel the bitter humiliation  of
their constant numerical inferiority. Hence the words quoted  in the speech of Wharton, the
lord-lieutenant.

This has always been the case, in spite of the combination of a  multitude of circumstances
adverse to the spread of the Catholic  population. It may not be amiss to give room for the
statistics  and remarks of Abbe Perraud on this most interesting subject,  contained in his
book on "Ireland under British rule."

"In 1672, the total population of Ireland was 1,100,000 (it is  to be remembered that this
was after the massacres and  transportations of Cromwell's period). Of that number

                800,000 were Catholics.
                 50,000  "   Dissenters.
                150,000  "   Church-of-Ireland men.

"In 1727, the Anglican Primate of Ireland, Boulter, Archbishop  of Armagh, wrote to his English
colleague, the Archbishop of  Canterbury, that  'we have, in all probability, in this kingdom,
at least five Papists for every Protestant.' Those proportions  are confirmed by official statistics
under Queen Anne.

"In 1740, according to a kind of official census, confirmed by  Wakefield, the number of Protestant
heads of families did not  exceed 96,067.

"Twenty-six years later, the Dublin House of Lords caused a  comparative table of Protestant
and Catholic families to be  drawn up for each county. The result was the following:

Protestant families . . 130,263 Catholic families   . . 305,680

"In 1834, exact statistical returns being made of the members of  each communion, the following
was the result: The total  population being estimated at 7,943,940, the Church-of-Ireland 
members amounted only to the number of 852,064. The remaining 7, 091,876 were thus divided:

Presbyterians . . . . . . 642,350 Other Dissenters  . . . .  21,808 Catholics . . . . . . .
6,427,718

"The censuses of 1841 and 1851 contained no information upon  this important question. Thirty
years had therefore elapsed  since official figures had given the exact proportions of each
Church.

"This silence of the Blue Books had given rise, among the  Protestant press of England and
Ireland, to the opinion, too  hastily adopted on the Continent by publicists of great weight,
that emigration and famine had resulted in the equalization of  the numbers of Protestants
and Catholics in Ireland. The evident  conclusion joyfully drawn from this supposed fact by
the  defenders of the Anglican Church was, that the scandal of a  Protestant establishment
in the midst and at the expense of a  Catholic people was gradually dying away.

"The forlorn hope of the Tory and Orange press went still  further. They boldly disputed Ireland's
right to the title of  Catholic. So, although, ten years and twenty years before, these  same
journals furiously opposed the admission of religious  denominations into the statistics of
the census, yet, when the  census of 1861 drew near, they quite as loudly demanded its  insertion.
They made it a matter of challenge to the Catholics.

"The ultramontane journals accepted the challenge. The Catholics  unanimously demanded a denominational
census. The results were  submitted to the representatives of the nation in July, 1861. No
shorter, more decisive, or more triumphant answer could have  been given to the sarcasms and
challenges of the old Protestant  party."

We confine ourselves here to the total sums, leaving out minor  details:

Catholics . . . . . . . . 4,490,583  Establishment . . . . . .   687,661  Dissenters  . . .
. . . .   595,577  Jews  . . . . . . . . . .       322

Thus in this century, as throughout the whole of the century of  gloom, the island is truly
and really Catholic.

By way of contrast, a few words on the same subject may not be  out of place with reference
to England. We have already stated,  and given some of the reasons for so doing, that, at the
death  of Elizabeth, England was already Protestant to the core.

In his "Memoirs," vol. ii., Sir John Dalrymple has published a  curious official report of
the numbers of Catholics in England,  in the reign of William of Orange, found after his death
in the  iron chest of that vigilant monarch. From this authentic  document we take the following
extract:

Number of Freeholders in England.1 (1 Dr. Madden's "Penal Laws.")

                 Conformists.     Papists.      Non-Conformists.
Province of
Canterbury,        2,123,362	     93,151        11,878

Province of York,                353,892         15,525         1,978

Totals             2,477,254        108,676        13,856

It is known also that, under George III., the number of  Catholics in the whole of Great Britain
did not exceed sixty  thousand, so thorough had been the separation of England from  the true
Church.

To return to the ostracism of a whole nation from its political  rights. No individual really
belonging to it could take the  slightest share in the administration of its affairs. They
were  all left to the control of aliens, whose boast it was that they  were English; and whose
chief object was to secure English  ascendency, and subject every thing Irish to the rule of force.

Yet all this while a new era was dawning on the world; a  multitude of voices were proclaiming
new social and political  doctrines; all were to be free, to possess privileges that might
not be intrenched upon--to wit, a voice in the affairs of the  nation, trial by their peers,
no taxation without due  representation, and the like--while a whole nation by the  unanimous
consent of the loudest of these freedom-mongers was  excluded from every benefit of the new
ideas, was literally  placed in bondage, and left without the possibility of being  heard and
admitted to the enjoyment of the common rights,  because the one voice which would have declared
in their favor,  which in former times had so often and so loudly spoken, when so  to speak
was to offend the powers of this world, was deprived of  the right of being heard. The doctrine
that the Papal supremacy  was a usurpation, and the Pope himself an enemy of freedom, was 
laid down as a cardinal principle. After such public  renunciation of former doctrines, all
these new and so-called  liberal theories were a mere delusion and a snare. There was no  possibility
of effectually securing freedom, in spite of so much  promised to all and granted to some;
no possibility of really  protecting the rights of all. The public right newly proclaimed 
ended finally in might. Majorities ruled despotically over the  minorities, and, as the despotism
of the multitude is ever  harsher and more universal than that of any monarch, the reign  of
cruel injustice was let in upon Ireland. And in her case the  injustice was peculiarly aggravated,
inasmuch as it was a small  alien minority which trampled under foot the rights of a great
native majority.

But, although the deprivation of political rights is perhaps  more fatal to a nation than that
of any other, on account of  what follows in its train, particularly in the framing of the
laws, nevertheless the deprivation of civil rights is generally  more acutely felt, because
the grievances resulting from it meet  man at every turn, at every moment of his life, in his
household  and domestic circle. In fact, the penal laws stripped Catholics  of every civil
right which modern society can conceive, and it  was chiefly there that the ingenuity of their
oppressors labored  during the greater part of a century to make a total wreck of  Irish welfare.

Those rights may be classified generally as the right of  possessing and holding landed property,
the right of earning an  honorable living by profession or trade, the right of protection 
against injustice by equal laws, the right of fair trial before  condemnation: such are the
chief. It is doubtful if there is any  thing of importance left of which a citizen can be deprived,
unless indeed he be openly and unjustly deprived of life.

It has been already indicated how the policy of England, with  regard to Ireland, from that
first invasion, in the time of  Henry II., was prompted by the desire of gaining possession
of  the soil, and how after seven hundred years of struggle it  succeeded in attaining its
object; so that the whole island had  been confiscated, and in some instances two or three
times over.  The object of the penal laws, therefore, could not be to deprive  the Irish of
the land which they no longer possessed, but to  prevent them acquiring any land in any quantity
whatever, and  from reentering into possession, by purchase or otherwise, of  any portion of
their own soil and of the estates which belonged  to their ancestors. So harsh and cunning
a design, we doubt not,  never entered the minds of any former legislators, even in pagan 
antiquity.

The great stimulus to exertion in civil society consists of the  acquisition of property, chiefly
of land. In feudal times  seignorial estates could be purchased by none but those of noble
blood; but with allodial estates it was different all through  Europe. Yet just at the time
when feudal laws were passing into  disuse the Irish were prevented, by carefully-drawn enactments,
from purchasing even a rood of their native soil. "The  prohibition had been already extended
to the whole nation by the  Commonwealth government, and when the lands forfeited by the  wars
of 1690 came to be sold at Chichester House in 1703, the  Irish were declared by the English
Parliament incapable of  purchasing at the auction, or of taking a lease of more than two 
acres."--(Prendergast.)

The same author adds in a note: "But it was when the estate was  made the property of the first
Protestant discoverer, that  animation was put into this law. Discoverers then became like
hounds upon the scent after lands secretly purchased by the  Irish. Gentlemen fearing to lose
their lands, found it now  necessary to conform--namely, to abjure Catholicism. Between  1703
and 1709 there were only thirty-six conformers in Ireland;  in the next ten years (after the
Discovery Act), the conformists  were one hundred and fifty."

But the full object was not only to prevent the Irish from  becoming even moderately rich in
land; they were to be reduced  to actual pauperism. Hence the prohibitory laws did not stop
at  this first outrage; almost impossible occurrences were supposed  and provided for, lest
there might be a chance of their  realization at some time. It was actually provided that,
if the  produce of their farms brought a greater profit to the Irish  than was expected, notwithstanding
all these measures against  the possible occurrence of such an evil, the lease was void, and
the "discoverer" should receive the amount.

There was no loop-hole by which the people might escape from  this degradation. But there was
still the chance left of  engaging in trade, acquiring personal property by its practice, 
and becoming the owners of a sum of money in bank, or of a  dwelling-house in the city. The
English law of succession was  understood to be a law for all, and consequently, in some out-of-
the-way cases, a stray Irish family might be found in course of  time with an elder branch
possessed of a fair amount of property, and able to emerge from the dead level of the common
misery.  Such a possibility could not of course be permitted by the  English colonists who
ruled the land. So the law of gavelkind,  to which the Irish had at one time been so attached,
was now to  be forced upon them, and upon them alone of all the British  subjects. It was decreed
that, upon the death of every Irishman,  whatever of personal property he left behind him was
to be  divided equally among all his children, who, being generally  numerous, would each receive
but a trifle, and so perpetrate the  pauperism of the race.

Where the surprise, then, in finding the whole nation reduced  since that time to a state of
the most abject poverty? It was  the will of the rulers that so it should be, and their scheme,
guarded and enforced by so many legislative acts, could not fail  to succeed in producing the
effect intended. Granting even the  smallest amount of truth in what is so often flung at the
Irish  as a reproach--their carelessness and want of foresight--how  could it be otherwise,
to what cause can such failings, even if  they exist, be assigned, save to the utter impossibility
of  succeeding in any effort which they chose to make?

The true origin of the state in which the Irish at home now  appear to the eyes of foreign
travellers, is the deliberate  intention, sternly acted upon for more than a century, to make
the island one vast poorhouse.

The wretched situation in which they have ever since remained,  confessed by all to be without
parallel on earth, is certainly  not to be laid at the door of the present population of England,
nor even to the colony still intrenched on Irish soil; but with  what right can it be brought
forward as a reproach against the  Irish themselves, when its real cause is so evident, and
when  history speaks so plainly on the subject?

All sensible Englishmen of our days will readily acknowledge  that, without indulging in mutual
recrimination, the duty of all  is to repair the injuries of the past, and to do away with
the  last remnants of its sad consequences. Wounds so deep and many  in a nation cannot be
healed by half measures; and it is only a  thorough change of system, and a complete reversal
of  legislation, that can leave the English of to-day without  reproach.

Pauperism, then, is the necessary misfortune, not the crime of  Ireland; we may even go further,
and assert that, if millions of  Irishmen have lived and died paupers, owing to the barbarous
laws enacted for that special purpose, few indeed among them  have been reduced even by hard
necessity and the extreme of  misery to manifest a pauper spirit and a miserly bent.

There is no doubt that the almost invariable result of suffering  and want is to create selfishness
in the sufferer, and cause him  to cling desperately to the little he may possess. Self  preservation
and self-indulgence, in such a case, form the law  of human nature, and no one even expects
to find a really poor  man generous, when he can scarcely meet his bare necessities and  the
imperious wants of his family. It is the peculiarity of the  Irish to know how to combine generosity
with the deprivation  almost of the common necessaries of life. When masters of their  own
soil, a large hospitality and a free-handed "bestowing of  gifts"--such, we believe, was the
Irish expression--was  universal among them; the poorest clansman would have been  ashamed
not to imitate, in his degree, the liberal spirit of his  prince. They often gave all they
had, regardless of the future;  and, when their chieftains demanded of the clansmen what the
Book of Rights imposed upon them, their exclamation was, "Spend  me but defend me."

Though the people of Erin have been reduced to the sad necessity  of forgetting that old proverb
of the nation, the spirit which  gave rise to it lives in their hearts and is proved by their
deeds. What other nation, even the richest and most prosperous,  could have accomplished what
the world has seen them bring to- pass during this century? The laws which, so long ago, forbade
them to be generous, and prohibited them from providing openly  for the worship of their God,
for the education of their  children, for the help of the sick and needy among them, have at
last been made inoperative by their oppressors. But, when they  were at length left free to
follow the freedom and generosity of  their hearts, they found--what? In their once beautiful
and  Christian country, a universal desolation; the blackened ruins  of what had been their
abbeys, churches, hospitals, and asylums;  the very ground on which they stood stolen away
from them, and  the Protestant establishment in full enjoyment of the revenues  of the Catholics.
They found every thing in the same state that  they had known for centuries. Nothing was restored
to them. They  were at liberty to spend what they did not possess, since they  were as poor
as men could be. Every thing had to be done by them  toward the reestablishing of their churches,
schools, and  various asylums, and they had nothing wherewith to do it.

There is no need of going item by item over what they did. The  present prosperous state of
the Irish Catholic public  institutioris-- churches, schools, and all--is owing to their  poorly-filled
pockets. God alone knows how it all came about. We  can only see in them the poor of Christ,
rich in all gifts,  "even alms-deeds most abundant."

It is only too evident that the degradation which the English  wished to fasten upon them forever,
could not be accomplished  even by the measures best adapted to debase a people. The Celtic
nature rose superior to the dark designs of the most ingenious  opponents, and continued as
ever noble, generous, and  openhearted. Nevertheless, the sufferings of the victims were at
times unutterable; and one of the inevitable effects of such  tyrannical measures soon made
itself fearfully active and  destructive in the shape of those periodical famines which have
ever since devastated the island.

In the days of her own possession, there was never mention of  famine there. The whole island
teemed with the grain of her  fields, consumed by a healthy population, and was alive with
vast herds of cattle and flocks of sheep. What were the heca- tombs of ancient Greece compared
with the thousands of kine  prescribed annually by the Book of Rights? Who ever heard of  people
perishing of want in the midst of abundance such as this?  Even during the fiercest wars, waged
by clan against clan, we  often see the image of death in many shapes, but never that of a
large population reduced to roots and grass for food.

When, later on, the wars of the Reformation transformed Munster  into a wilderness, and we
read for the first time in Irish  history of people actually turning green and blue, according
to  the color of the unwholesome weeds they were driven to devour in  order to support life,
at least it was in the wake of a terrible  war that famine came. It was reserved for the eighteenth
century  to disclose to us the woful spectacle of a people perishing of  starvation in the
midst of the profoundest peace, frequently of  the greatest plenty, the food produced in abundance
by the labor  of the inhabitants being sold and sent off to foreign countries  to enrich absentee
landlords. Nay, those desolating famines at  last grew to be periodical, so that every few
years people  expected one, and it seemed as though Ireland were too barren to  produce the
barely sufficient supply of food necessary for her  scanty population. The people worked arduously
and without  intermission; the land was rich, the seasons propitious; yet  they almost constantly
suffered the pangs of hunger, which  spread sometimes to wholesale starvation. This was another
result of those laws devised by the English colonists to keep  down the native population of
the island, and prevent it from  becoming troublesome and dangerous. Such was the effect of
the  humane measures taken to preserve the glory of Protestant  ascendency, and secure the
rights and liberties of a handful of  alien masters.

It is proper to describe some of those awful scourges, which  have never ceased since, and
at sight of which, in our own days,  we have too often sickened. For the Emancipation of 1829
was far  from removing all the causes of Irish misery. On the 17th of  March, 1727, Boulter,
the Protestant Archbishop of Armagh, wrote  to the Duke of Newcastle: "Since my arrival in
this country, the  famine has not ceased among the poor people. The dearness of corn last year
was such that thousands of families had to quit their dwellings, to seek means of life elsewhere;
many hundred perished."

At the same period Swift wrote: "The families of farmers who pay great rents, live in filth
and nastiness, on buttermilk and potatoes." If one for every house in  the kingdom died--and
that is very probable--the loss must be  upward of four hundred thousand souls. If only half,
a loss too  great for this ill-peopled country to bear, as they are mostly  working people.
When a stranger travels through this country,  and beholds its wide, extended, and fertile
plains, its great  flocks of sheep and black cattle, and all its natural wealth and  conveniences
for tillage, manufacture, and trade, he must be  astonished that such misery and want should
be felt by its  inhabitants."

At the time these lines were written, the astonishment was  sincere, and the answer to the
question "How can this be?"  seemed impossible; the phenomenon utterly inexplicable. In our
own days, when this same picture of woe has been so often presented in the island, the reasons
for it are well known; and what seems inexplicable is that, the cause being so clear, and the
remedy so simple, the remedy has not yet been thoroughly applied.

In 1756 and 1757, the same scenes were repeated, with the same  frightful results. Charles
O'Connor, at that time the champion  of his much- abused countrymen, wrote thus, in his letter
to Dr.  Curry, May 21, 1756:

"Two-thirds of the inhabitants are perishing for want of bread;  meal is come to eighteen-pence
a stone, and, if the poor had  money, it would exceed by--I believe--double that sum. Every
place is crowded with beggars, who were all house-keepers a  fortnight ago, and this is the
condition of a country which  boasts of its constitution, its laws, and the wisdom of its 
legislature."

These words, although sweeping enough, and universally  applicable, are far from conveying
to our minds, to-day, the  real picture of the state of the country. When the writer speaks
of "meal," it must be understood to mean rye, oats, and, barley;  and even this coarse and
heavy food being, as he remarks,  inaccessible to the poor, potatoes had become the only bread
of  the country, and the inhabitants were perishing for the want of it.

For the first time in the history of the two nations, the  English Government thought of relieving
the distress of the  people, and to this purpose applied the magnificent sum of  twenty thousand
pounds. Such was the generous amount granted by  a wealthy and prosperous country to procure
food for the  inhabitants of an island as large as Ireland is known to be. As  to effecting
any change in the laws, which were really the cause  of this unutterable misery, such an idea
never entered into the  heads of the legislators. Hence it is not surprising to hear  that
"the distress in the interior of the country revived the  frightful image of the miseries of
1741, nor did the calamity  cease, until the equilibrium between the population and the  means
of subsistence was restored by the accumulated waste of  famine and pestilence;" that is to
say, until all those had been  destroyed whom the laws of the time could, as they had been
designed to do, destroy.

These details appear calculated only to shock the feelings of  the reader, already sufficiently
acquainted with the lot of the  Irish cottier and laborer, from the beginning of the last 
century. Nevertheless, we cannot close this part of our subject  without giving publicity to
the following description of the  mass of the Irish population in 1762, by Matthew O'Connor:

"The popery laws had, in the course of half a century,  consummated the ruin of the lower orders.
Their habitations,  visages, dress, and despondency, exhibited the deep distress of  a people
ruled with the iron sceptre of conquest. The lot of the  negro slave, compared with that of
the Irish helot, was  happiness itself. Both were subject to the capricious cruelty of  mercenary
task-masters and unfeeling proprietors; but the negro  slave was well-fed, well clothed, and
comfortably lodged. The  Irish peasant was half starved, half naked, and half housed; the 
canopy of heaven being often the only roof to the mud-built  walls of his cabin. The fewness
of negroes gave the West India  proprietor an interest in the preservation of his slave; a
superabundance of helots superseded all interest in the comfort  or preservation of an Irish
cottier. The code had eradicated  every feeling of humanity, and avarice sought to stifle every
sense of justice. That avarice was generated by prodigality, the  hereditary vice of the Irish
gentry, and manifested itself in  exorbitant rack-rents wrung from their tenantry, and in the
low  wages paid for their labor. Since the days of King William, the  price of the necessaries
of life had trebled, and the day's hire- -fourpence-- had continued stationary. The oppression
of tithes  was little inferior to the tyranny of rack-rents; while the  great landholder was
nearly exempt from this pressure, a tenth  of the produce of the cottier's labor was exacted
for the  purpose of a religious establishment from which he derived no  benefit. . . . The
peasant had no resource: not trade or  manufactures--they were discouraged; not emigration
to France-- the vigilance of government precluded foreign enlistment; not  emigration to America
--his poverty precluded the means. Ireland, the land of his birth, became his prison, where
he counted the  days of his misery in the deepest despondency."

Is it to be wondered at that conspiracies, secret associations,  and insurrections, were the
result; or should the wonder be that  such commotions were less universal and prolonged?

The craving of hunger is perpetual in Ireland. Multitudes of  details from a multitude of different
and independent sources  might be brought forward to show this.

Duvergier de Hauranne, a Frenchman who visited the island in  1826, writes: "Ireland is the
land of anomalies; the most  deplorable destitution on the richest of soils. . . . Nowhere
does man live in such wretchedness. The Irish peasant is born,  suffers, and dies--such is
life for him."

In 1836, Dr. Doyle, Bishop of Kildare, being asked what was the  state of the population, wrote:
"What it has always been; people  are perishing as usual."

In 1843, Mr. Thackeray, as little a friend to Ireland as he was  a foe to his own country,
recounting what he saw in his travels,  said that, in the south and west of the island, the
traveller  had before him the spectacle of a people dying of hunger, and  that by millions,
in the very richest counties.

There is no need of repeating what has been written of the  fearful scourge that swept over
the country in 1846 and 1847.  The details are too harrowing. At last even the London Times
had  to acknowledge the cause of these calamities: "The ulcer of  Ireland drains the resources
of the empire. It was to be  expected that it should be so. The people of England have most
culpably and foolishly connived at a national iniquity. Without  going back beyond the Union
(in 1800), and only within the last  half-century, it has been notorious all that time that
Ireland  was the victim of an unexampled social crime. The landlords  exercise their rights
there with a hand of iron, and deny their  duty with a brow of brass. Age, infirmity, sickness,
every  weakness, is there condemned to death. The whole Irish people is  debased by the spectacle
and contact of beggars and of those who  notoriously die of hunger; and England stupidly winked
at this  tyranny. We begin now to expiate a long curse of neglect. Such  is the law of justice.
If we are asked why we have to support  half the population of Ireland, the answer lies in
the question  itself; it is that we have deliberately allowed them to be  crushed into a nation
of beggars!"

The writers of the Times laid the true cause of that appalling  misfortune at the door of the
landlords. They would not trace  back the origin of the evil beyond 1800: they could not or
would  not appreciate the Christian heroism displayed by the nation  while under the infliction
of such a fatal scourge. But it must  not be forgotten by all admirers of virtue that, in the
midst of  a distress which baffles description, many of the victims of  famine were at the
same time martyrs to honesty and faith. "Come  here and let us die together," said a wife to
her husband,  "rather than touch what belongs to another."

The civil right of acquiring land and enjoying its products has  so far been the only one considered
by us; and the subject has  been entered upon at some length, as agriculture has at all  times
formed the chief occupation of the Irish people. But the  penal laws embraced many other objects;
and, as their intent was  evidently to debase the people and reduce it to a state of  actual
slavery and want, other civil rights were equally invaded  by their tyrannical provisions.

A portion of the population in all countries devotes itself to  the intellectual pursuits necessary
for the life of every  cultivated nation. Whoever chooses must have the right of  devoting
his life to the professions of medicine and law, of  entering the Church or the army, if his
tastes run in any one of  those directions. Not so in Catholic Ireland. The oath to be  taken
by every barrister prevented the Catholic Irishman from  devoting his powers to such a purpose.
There was only one Church  for him, and that one proscribed. In the army not only could he
not attain to any rank, but he was not allowed to enter it even  as a private, the holding
of a musket being prohibited to him.  So that, through mere fanatical hatred of every thing
Catholic,  England deprived herself for a whole century of the services of  a people, forming
to-day more than half of her army and navy,  whose efforts have helped to cover her flag with
honor, and  whose memorable absence from the English ranks at Fontenoy wrung  that bitter expression
from the heart of George II. when the  victorious tide of the English battle was rolled back
by the Irish brigade, "Cursed be the laws which deprive me of such subjects!"

These few words are enough to show that the penal laws were in  reality a decree of outlawry
against the Irish--stamping them,  not as true subjects, but as mere slaves and helots, fit
only to  be hewers of wood and drawers of water at the bidding of their  lords and masters.

But there are mere human rights, inalienable in man, and sacred  among all nations, which were
trampled upon in that desolated  land together with all inferior rights. Such are the rights
of  worshipping God, of properly educating children, of preserving a  just subordination in
the family and promoting harmony and  happiness among its members. These natural rights were
more  openly and shamelessly violated, if that were possible, than all  others; and this in
itself would have made the eighteenth  century one of gloom and woe for Irishmen.

It was for their religion chiefly that the Irish had undergone  all the calamities and scourges
which have been described. Had  they only, at the very beginning of the Reformation, bowed
to  the new dogma of the spiritual supremacy of the English kings;  had they a little later
accepted the Thirty-nine Articles of  Queen Elizabeth; had they, at a subsequent epoch, opined
in  chorus with the Scotch Presbyterians, and given the Bible as  their authority for all kinds
of absurdities and atrocities,  mental and moral; had they, in a word, as they remarked to
Sussex, changed their religion four times in twelve years, they  would have escaped the wrath
of Henry VIII., the crafty and  cruel policy of Elizabeth, the shifty expediency of the Stuarts,
the barbarity of the Cromwellian era, and finally the ingenious  atrocities of the penal laws.

Even if, in the midst of some of the extremities to which they  had been reduced, they had
at any time resolved to conform and  take the oaths prescribed, all their miseries would have
been at  an end, and their immediate admission to all the rights and  privileges of British
citizens secured. From time to time, in  individual cases, they witnessed the sudden and magical
effect  produced by conformity on the part of those who gave up  resistance altogether, and
who, from whatever motive, bowed to  the inevitable conditions on which men were admitted to
live  peaceably on Irish soil, and to the enjoyment of the blessings  of this life; such condition
being the abjuration of Catholicity. But so few were found to take advantage of this easy chance
forever held out to them, that a man might well wonder at their  constancy did he not reflect
that they set their duty to God  above all things. The fact is patent--they had a conscience,
and  knew what it meant.

Having then surrendered their all for the sake of their religion, the free exercise of that
might at least have been left them;  and since the choice lay between the two alternatives
of  enjoying the natural right of worshipping their God or  submitting to all the sacrifices
previously mentioned (seemingly  the meaning of the various oaths prescribed by law), it can
only  be looked upon as an additional cruelty to violently deprive  them of what they chose
to preserve at all cost. But the authors  of the statutes did not see the matter in this light.
They could  not lose such an opportunity of inflicting new tortures on their  victims; on the
contrary, they would have considered all their  labor lost had they not endeavored to coerce
the very thing  least subject to coercion, the religious feeling of the human  soul. Accordingly,
the resolution was taken to deprive them of  every possible facility for the exercise of their
religion, that  the fire within might give no sign of its warmth.

True, the Irish Catholics were not, as the Christians under the  edicts of old Rome, to be
summoned before the public courts and  there abjure their religion or die. It is strange that
the  rulers of Ireland stopped short at this; that they invented  nothing in their laws at
least equivalent, unless the statutes  that compelled every person under fine to be present
at  Protestant worship on Sundays be interpreted to mean, what it  very much resembles, an
attempt at coercion of the very soul.  Still there was no edict openly proscribing the name
of Catholic, and punishing its bearer with death.

But the measures adopted and actually enforced were in reality  equivalent, and would more
effectually than any pagan edict have  produced the same result, if the Irish race had shown
the least  wavering in their traditional steadiness of purpose.

The first of the measures devised for this end would have been  completely efficacious with
any other people or race. It was a  twofold measure: 1. All bishops, priests, and monks, were
to  depart from the kingdom, liable to capital punishment should  they return. 2. All laymen
were to be compelled to assist at the  Protestant service every Sunday, under penalty of a
fine for  each offence: the fine mounting with the repetition of the  offence, so that, in
the end, it would reach an enormous sum.  Only let such a policy as this be persevered in for
a quarter of  a century in any country on earth except Ireland, and, in that  country the Catholic
religion will cease to exist.

"The Catholic clergy," says Matthew O'Connor--and the reader  will remember he was a witness
of what he described-- "submitted  to their hard destiny with Christian resignation. They repaired
to the seaport towns fixed for their embarcation, and took an  everlasting farewell of their
country and friends, of every  thing dear and valuable in this world. Many of them were  descending
in the vale of years, and must have been anxious to  deposit their bones with the ashes of
their ancestors; they were  now transported to foreign lands, where they would find no fond
breast to rely upon, no 'pious tear' to attend their obsequies.  Yet their enemies could not
deprive them of the consolations of  religion: that first-born offspring of Heaven still cheered
them  in adversity and exile, smoothed the rugged path of death, and  closed their last faltering
accents with benedictions on their  country, and prayers for their persecutors.

"Such as were apprehended after the time limited for deportation, were loaded with irons and
imprisoned until transported, to  attest, on some foreign shore, the weakness of the government,
and the cruelty of their countrymen. Some few, disabled from age  and infirmities from emigration,
sought shelter in caves, or  implored and received the concealment of Protestants, whose  humane
feelings were superior to their prejudices, and who  atoned, in a great degree, by their generous
sympathy, for the  wanton cruelty of their party.

"The clause inflicting the punishment of death on such as should  return from exile was suited
only for the sanguinary days of  Tiberius or Domitian, and shocked the humanity of an enlightened
age. William of Orange, whose necessities compelled him to give  his sanction to the clause,
would never consent to its execution."

Nevertheless, it was afterward enforced on several occasions,  and, during the whole century
of penal laws, it not only  remained on the statute-book ad terrorem, but whatever clergyman
disregarded it could only expect to be treated with its utmost  rigor. From Captain South's
account, it appears that in 1698 the  number of clergy in Ireland consisted of four hundred
and ninety- five regulars and eight hundred and ninety-two seculars; and the  number of regulars
shipped off that year to foreign parts  amounted to four hundred and twenty-four--namely, from
Dublin,  one hundred and fifty-three; from Galway, one hundred and ninety; from Cork, seventy-five;
and twenty-six from Waterford.

But such a measure was of too sweeping a character to be carried  out to the letter; many of
the proscribed priests, seculars for  the most part, escaped the pursuit of the government
spies, and  remained concealed in the country. The bishops had all been  obliged to fly; but
a few years later, under Anne, several  returned, for they knew that, without the exercise
of their  religious functions, the Catholic religion must have perished;  and, in order that
they might continue the succession of the  priesthood, confirm the children, and encourage
the people to  stand firm in their faith, they ran the hazard of the gibbet. Of  this fact
the persecutors soon became aware, and the Commons of  Ireland declared openly that "several
popish bishops had lately  come into the kingdom, and exercised ecclesiastical jurisdiction
within the same, and continued the succession of the Romish  priesthood by ordaining great
numbers of popish clergymen, and  that their return was owing to defect in the laws."

To cover this defect, they invented the "registry law." They did  not state in express terms
their intention of exporting them  again, but their object was clearly manifested by the subsequent
enactment of 1704. By the registry law "all popish priests then  in the kingdom should, at
the general quarter sessions in each  county, register their places of abode, age, parishes,
and time  of ordination, the names of the respective bishops who ordained  them, and give security
for their constant residence in their  respective districts, under penalty of imprisonment
and  transportation, and of being treated as 'high traitors' in case  of return."

It is clear that, with the execution of this law, the exertions  of the police and of informers
would have been superfluous, as  the clergy were compelled to act as their own police and inform
on themselves. The act, moreover, seems to have been prepared  with a view to another bill,
which was soon after passed, for  total expulsion. It was therefore nothing else than a  preliminary
measure devised to insure the success of this second  act, and prevent the recurrence of the
former "defect in the  laws."

A new explanatory statute was accordingly drawn up, requiring  the clergy to take the oath
of abjuration before the 23d of  March, 1710, under the penalties of transportation for life,
and  of high-treason if ever after found in the country. This bill,  then, set them the alternative
of abandoning either their  country or their principles.

At the same time, for the encouragement of informers, the  Commons resolved that "the prosecuting
and informing against  papists was an honorable service." Never before had a like  declaration
issued from any body in any nation, least of all by  legislators, in favor of the confessedly
meanest of all  occupations; and it is doubtful if the most tyrannical of the  Roman Caesars
would ever have thought of mentioning the  "honorable service" of the delatores whom they employed
for the  speedy destruction of those whose wealth they coveted. "Genus  hominum," says Tacitus,
"publico exitio repertum."

While on this subject, it has been remarked that most of the  Irish informers amassed wealth
by their bills of "discovery,"  whereas those of the days of Tiberius generally fell victims
to  their own artifices.

The eagerness for blood-money tracked the clergy to their  loneliest retreats, and dragged
them thence before persecuting  tribunals, by whose sentence they were doomed to perpetual
banishment. They must all have finally disappeared from the  island, if the people, at last
grown indignant at such baseness  and cruelty, had not, by the loudness of their execrations,
checked the activity of the priest-hunters. Wherever they dared  show themselves, they were
pelted with stones, and exposed to  the summary vengeance of a maddened people.

The detestable "profession" became at last so infamous and  unprofitable that foreign Jews
were almost the only ones found  willing to undertake this "honorable service;" and it is stated
in the "Historia Dominicana," that one Garzia, a Portuguese Jew,  was the most active of those
human blood-hounds, and that, in  1718, he contrived to have seven of the proscribed clergy
detected and apprehended.

We cannot speak of the most revolting measure ever intended to  be taken against Catholic priests;
namely mutilation, so long  and with such energy denied by Protestants, who were themselves
indignant at the mere mention of it, but now clearly proved by  the archives of France, where
documents exist showing that the  non-enactment of such an infamy was solely due to the severe
words of remonstrance sent to England by the Duke of Orleans,  regent of France during the
minority of Louis XV.

As late as the middle of the century, in 1744, a sudden increase  of rigor took place; intentions
of conspiracy were ascribed to  Catholics as usual, and without any motive whatever, unless
it  was caused by the sight of some religious houses, which had been  quietly and unobtrusively
reopened during the few years previous. All at once the government issued a proclamation for
"the  suppression of monasteries, the apprehension of ecclesiastics,  the punishment of magistrates
remiss in the execution of the  laws, and the encouragement of spies and informers by an  increase
of reward."

It was a repetition of the old story; a cruel persecution broke  out in every part of the island.
From the country priests fled  to the metropolis, seeking to hide themselves amid the multitude
of its citizens. Others fled to mountains and caverns, and the  holy sacrifice was again offered
up in lone places under the  bare heavens, with sentinels to watch for the "prowling of the
wolf," and no other outward dignity than that the grandeur of  the forest and the rugged mountains
gave.

In the cities the Catholics assisted at the celebration of the  divine mysteries in stable-yards,
garrets, and such obscure  places as sheltered them from the pursuit of the magistrates. On
one occasion, while the congregation (assembled in an old  building) was kneeling to receive
the benediction, the floor  gave way, and all were buried beneath the ruin; many were killed,
the priest among others; some were maimed for life, and  remained to the end of their lives
monuments of the cruelty of  the government. The dead and dying, and the wounded, were  carried
through the streets on carts; and the sad spectacle at  last moved the Protestants themselves
to sympathy. The  government was compelled to give way, and allow the persecuted  Catholics
to enjoy without further molestation the private  exercise of their religion.

But that this was not a willing concession on the part of the  reigning power is manifest enough
from the steady, unswerving,  contrary policy pursued until that time. It was simply forced
to  give way to outraged public opinion, then openly opposed  throughout Europe to persecution
for conscience' sake.

With religion education was also proscribed. Already, under  William of Orange, had papist
school-masters been forbidden to  teach, but the penalty of their disobedience to the law did
not  go beyond a fine of a few pounds. So that the Irish youth could  still, with some precautionary
prudence, find teachers of the  Greek and Latin languages, of mathematics, history, and  geography.
In Munster particularly schools and academies of  literature flourished; the ardor of the people
for the  acquirement of knowledge could not be balked by such paltry  obstacles as the laws
of William III.

But the Irish Parliament under Anne could not rest satisfied  with such mild measures. By the
"Explanatory Act" of 1710, the  school-master in Ireland was subjected to the same punishment
as  the priest whom he accompanied everywhere. Prison,  transportation, death itself, became
the reward of teaching. And  in proportion as other laws, severer yet, prevented the people
from sending their children abroad to be educated, and these  laws were renewed occasionally
and made more stringent and  effective, the result was the total impossibility of Catholic
children receiving any education higher than that of the house.

The final result is known to all. The "hedge-school" was  established, that being the only
way left of imparting  elementary knowledge; and it required Irish ingenuity and Irish  aptitude
for shifts to invent such a system, for system it was,  and carry it through for so long a time.

But even the last sanctuary of home was yet to be sacrilegiously  invaded; the most sacred
of human rights could not be left to  the persecuted people, and the strongest bonds of family
affection were if possible to be broken asunder. What tyranny  had never yet dared attempt
in any age or country was to become  a law in Ireland; and that holy feeling by which the members
of  a family are held together, in obedence to one of the most  necessary and solemn commandments
of God, could not be left  undisturbed in the bosom of an Irish child. The father's rule  over
his children and the honor and love due by the child to its  parent, were, in fact, declared
by English legislation of no  value, and fit subjects for cruel interference, introducing 
irresistible temptation.

Yes, by the laws enacted in the reign of Anne, the son was to be  set against the father, and
this for the sake of religion! It  was a part of the Irish statutes, and for a long time it
took  occasional effect, that any son of a Catholic who should turn  Protestant at any age,
even the tenderest, should alone succeed  to the family estate, which from the day of the son's
conversion  could neither be sold nor charged even with a debt of legacy.  From that same day
the son was taken from his father's roof and  delivered into the custody of some Protestant
guardian. No tie,  however sacred, no claim, however dear, was respected by those  statesmen,
who at the very time were the loudest to boast of  their love for freedom, while trampling
under foot the most  indispensable rights of Nature.

The wickedest ingenuity of man could certainly not go beyond  this to debase, degrade, and
destroy a nation. After  unprecedented calamities of former ages, we find millions of men 
reduced by other men, calling themselves Christians, to a  condition of pagan helots, deprived
of all rights and treated  more barbarously than slaves. And all the while they were  allowed,
induced, encouraged to put an end to their misery by  simply saying one word, taking one oath,
"conforming " as the  expression had it. Nevertheless they steadily refused to speak  that
word, to take that oath, to conform; that is to say, to  abjure their religion. A few, weak
in faith, or carried away by  sudden passion, a burst of despair, subscribe to the required
oath, assist as demanded at the religious services on Sunday,  suddenly rise to distinction,
are sure of preserving their  wealth, or even enter into sole possession of the family  property,
to the exclusion of all its other members. But such  rare examples, instead of rousing the
envy of the rest, excite  only their contempt and execration. To them they are henceforth 
apostates, renegades to their faith, cast out from the bosom of  the nation; and their countrymen
hug their misery rather than  exchange it for honors and wealth purchased by broken honor,
lost faith, and cowardly desertion of the cause for which their  country was what it was.

While the cowards were so few, and the brave men so many, the  latter constituting indeed the
whole bulk of the people, they  were knit together as a band of brethren, never to be estranged
from each other. If any thing is calculated to form a nation, to  give it strength, to render
it indestructible, imperishable, it  is undoubtedly the ordeal through which they passed without
shrinking, and out of which they came with one mind, one purpose, animated by one holy feeling,
the love of their religion, and  the determination to keep it at all hazard.

Yes, at any moment throughout this long century, they might have  changed their condition and
come out at once to the enjoyment of  all the rights dear to men, by what means is best expressed
in  the few words of Edmund Burke:

"Let three millions of people"

Thus does the reason of man commend their constancy; but that  constancy required something
more than human strength. God it  was who supported them. He alone could grant power of will
strong enough to uphold men plunged for so long a time in such  an abyss of wretchedness. To
him could they cry out with truth:  "It is only owing to Divine mercy that we have not perished;"
misericordias Domini, quod non sumus consumpti!

But human reason can better comprehend the effect produced on a  vast multitude of people by
oppression so unexampled in its  severity. An immense development of manhood and self-dependence,
an heroic determination to bear every trial for conscience' sake, and a certainty of succeeding,
in the long-run, in breaking the  heavy chain and casting off the intolerable yoke --such was
the  effect.

It has been asserted by some authors, who have written on that  terrible eighteenth century
in Ireland, that the spirit of the  people was entirely broken, that there was no energy left
among  them, and that the imposition of burdens heavier still, were  such a thing possible,
could scarcely elicit from them even the  semblance of remonstrance. It was only natural to
think so; but,  in our opinion, this is only true of the external despondency  under which
the people was bowed, but utterly false with respect  to a lack of mental energy.

There certainly was no general attempt at insurrection on their  part; nor did they take refuge
in that last resource of despair-- death after a vain vengeance. If the writers referred to
would  have preferred this last fatal resource of wounded pride, they  are right in their estimate
of the Irish; but they forget that  the victims were Christians, and could lend no ear to a
vengeance which is futile and a despair which is forbidden.  There was a better course open
before them, and they followed it: to resign themselves to the will of a God they believed
in and  for whom they suffered, and wait patiently for the day of  deliverance. It was sure
to come; and if those then living were  doomed not to see that happy day, they knew that they
would  leave it as an inheritance to their children.

Those writers would doubtless have been satisfied of the  existence of a will among the people,
and their conduct would  have met with greater approval, had the attempts of some  individuals
at private revenge been more general and successful;  if the bands of Rapparees, White Boys,
and others, had wrought  more evil upon their oppressors, although they could not prepare 
them to renew the struggle on a large scale with better prospect  of success.

But this could not be; success could never have been reached by  such a road, and it was useless
to attempt it. At that time,  there existed no possibility of the Irish recovering their  rights
by force. Meanwhile Providence was not forgetful of those  who were fighting the braver moral
battle of suffering and  endurance for their religion. It was preparing the nation for a  future
life of great purposes, by purifying it in the crucible  of affliction, and preserving the
people pure and undebased.

Nowhere has the period of calamity been so protracted and so  severe. Ireland stands alone
in a history of wretchedness of  seven centuries' duration. She stands alone, particularly
inasmuch as, with her, the affliction has gone on continually  increasing until quite recently,
unrefreshed by periods of  relief and glimpses of bright hope. The sinking spirits of the 
people, it is true, have been buoyed up from time to time by  sanguine expectations; but only
to find their expectations  crowned with bitter disappointment and sink deeper again in the
sea of their afflictions.

Nevertheless, through all that time the Irish continued morally  strong, and ready at the right
moment to leap into the stature  of giants in strength and resolution. How they did so will
be  seen, and the simplicity of the explanation will be matter for  surprise. But it is fitting
first to set in the strongest light  the assertion that the Irish were really debased by the
calamities of that age, that they possessed no self-dependence  at a time when that was the
only thing left to them.

This view is thus expressed in Godkin's "History of Ireland:"  "Too well did the penal code
accomplish its dreadful work of  debasement on the intellects, morals, and physical condition
of  a people sinking in degeneracy from age to age, till all manly  spirit, all virtuous sense
of personal independence and  responsibility was nearly extinct, and the very features--vacant,
timid, cunning, and unreflective--betrayed the crouching slave  within."

And the writer, a well-disposed Protestant, did not see how it  could well be otherwise, and
took it for granted that every one  would admit the truth of his assertions without the slightest
hesitation.

For he adds, a little farther on: "Having no rights of franchise- -no legal protection of life
or property--disqualified to handle  a gun, even as a common soldier or a game-keeper-- forbidden
to  acquire the elements of knowledge at home or abroad--forbidden  even to render to God what
conscience dictated as his due--what  could the Irish be but abject serfs? What nature in their
circumstances could have been otherwise? Is it not amazing that  any social virtue could have
survived such an ordeal--that any  seeds of good, any roots of national greatness could have
outlived such a long tempestuous winter? "

Still Mr. Godkin was mistaken; the Irish had suffered no  "debasement of the intellects, of
the morals, not even of the  physical condition," notwithstanding the plenitude of causes 
existing to bring such results about.

Their intellect had been kept in ignorance. Unable to procure  instruction for their children,
except by stealth and in  opposition to the laws, few of them could acquire even the first
elements of mental culture. But the intellect of a nation is not  necessarily debased on that
account. As a general rule, it is  true that ignorance begets mental darkness and error, and
will  often debase the mind and sink the intellectual faculties to the  lowest human level.
But this happens only to people who, having  no religious substratum to rest upon, are left
at the mercy of  error and delusions. One great thought, at least, was ever  present to their
minds, and that thought was in itself  sufficient to preserve their intellect from being degraded;
it  was this "Man is nobler than the brute and born to a higher  destiny." This truth was deeply
engraved in their minds; and in  defence of it they battled, and fought, and bled, all down
the  painful course of their history.

Had the intellect of the nation been really debased, would not  their religious principles
have been the first things to be  thrown overboard? Would they not have adopted unhesitatingly
all  the tenets successively proposed to them by the various  "reformers" of England? What
is truth, when there is no mind to  receive it? It requires a strong mind indeed to say, "I
will  suffer every thing, death itself, rather thin repudiate what I  know comes from God."
It is useless to dwell longer on these  considerations. The man who sees not in such an heroic
determination proof of a strong and noble mind may be possessed  of a great, but to common-sense
people it will look like a very  limited intelligence.

Mr. Godkin cannot have duly weighed his expressions when he  spoke of the debasement of morals
among the Irish. It is no  hyperbole to speak of the nation as a martyr; a martyr in any  sense
of the word: to the Christian, a Christian martyr. And yet  it is by that fact guilty of immorality,
or, as he puts it,  debased in morals! The point is not worth arguing. But in  contrasting
the two nations, the nation debased and the nation  that wrought its debasement, we are irresistibly
reminded of the  words used by Our Lord in reference to John the Baptist, then in  prison and
liable at any moment to be condemned to death: "What  went ye out in the desert to see? A man
clothed in soft  garments? Lo! they that are clothed in soft garments dwell in  the houses
of kings."

If we would find a people really debased in morals, we must go  to those whose material prosperity
breeds corruption and gives  to all the means of satisfying their evil passions. The orgies
of the Babylonians under their last king, of the effeminate  Persians later on, of the Roman
patricians during the empire,  need no more than mention. The cause of the immorality  prevailing
at these several epochs is well known, and has been  told very plainly by conscientious historians,
some of them  pagans themselves. But, that a people ground down so long under  a yoke of iron,
gasping for very breath, yet refusing to  surrender its belief and the worship of its God as
its countless  saints worshipped him, to follow the wild vagaries of sectarians  and fanatics,
should at the same time be accused of corruption  and debasement of its morals, is too much
for an historian to  assert or a reader to believe.

But, beyond all argument, it has been generally conceded, in  spite of prejudices, that the
Irish, of all peoples, had been  preeminently moral and Christian. No one has dared accuse
them  of open vice, however they may have been accused of folly.  Intemperance is the great
foible flung at them by many who,  careful to conceal their own failings, are ever, ready to
"cast  the first stone" at them. It would be well for them to ponder  over the rebuke of the
Saviour to the accusers of the woman  taken in adultery; when perhaps they may think twice
before  repeating the time-worn accusation.

Coming to the "people sinking in degeneracy from age to age;" if  by this is meant that, for
a whole century, many of them have  suffered the direst want and died of hunger, that scanty
food  has impressed on many the deep traces of physical suffering and  bodily exhaustion, no
one will dispute the fact, while the blame  of it is thrown where it deserves to be thrown.
But it will be a  source of astonishment to find that, despite of this, the race  has not degenerated
even physically; that it is still, perhaps,  the strongest race in existence, and that no other
European, no  Englishman or Teuton, can endure the labor of any ordinary  Irishman. In the
vast territory of the United States, the public  works, canals, roads, railways, huge fabrics,
immense  manufactories, bear witness to the truth of this statement, and  the only explanation
that can be satisfactorily given for this  strange fact is, that their morals are pure and
they do not  transmit to their children the seeds of many diseases now  universal in a universally
corrupt society.

There remains the final accusation of the "very features--  vacant, timid, cunning, and unreflective--betraying
the  crouching slave within."

Granting the truth of this--which we by no means do, every  school-geography written by whatever
hand attesting the contrary  to-day--where would have been the wonder that they, subjected
so  long to an unbending harshness and never-slumbering tyranny,  accustomed to those continual
"domiciliary visits" so common in  Ireland during the whole of last century, dragged so often
before the courts of "justice," to be there insulted, falsely  accused, harshly tried and convicted
without proof--were obliged  to be continually on their guard, to observe a deep reserve, the
very opposite to the promptings of their genial nature, to  return ambiguous answers, full,
by the way, of natural wit and  marvellous acuteness? It was the only course left them in their
forlorn situation. They pitted their native wit against a  wonderfully devised legislation,
and often came off the victors.  Suppose it were true, was it not natural that, under such
a  system of unrelaxing oppression and hatred toward them, their  faces should be "vacant,
timid, cunning, and unreflective,  betraying the crouching slave within?"

