Thank God you were spared the sight which surely would have broken your heart! You never lived
to see your country free. Alas! no man for many generations to come will see that now. The
Magyar peasant lad--upon the vast, mysterious plains of his native soil--will alone continue
to dream of national liberty, of religious and political freedom, and vaguely hope that some
day another Louis Kossuth will arise again and restore to him and to his race that sense of
dignity, of justice and of right which the Teuton has striven for centuries to crush.

EMMUSKA ORCZY.

Snowfield,
  Bearsted,
    Kent.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                   PAGE

I.      "GOD BLESS THEM ALL! THEY ARE GOOD LADS."            9 II.     "MONEY WON'T BUY EVERYTHING."
16 III.    "YOU WILL WAIT FOR ME."                             32 IV.     "NOW THAT HE IS DEAD."
43 V.      "LOVE WILL FOLLOW."                                 56 VI.     "I DON'T WISH TO
MARRY; NOT YET."                   64 VII.    "THEY ARE JEWS AND WE ARE HUNGARIANS."      
73 VIII.   "I PUT THE BUNDA AWAY SOMEWHERE."                   84 IX.     "THEN, AS NOW, MAY
GOD PROTECT YOU."                93 X.      "THE BEST WAY OF ALL."                        
101 XI.     "AFTER THAT, HAPPINESS WILL BEGIN."                106 XII.    "IT IS TOO LATE."
115 XIII.   "HE MUST MAKE YOU HAPPY."                          125 XIV.    "IT IS TRUE."  
133 XV.     "THAT IS FAIR, I THINK."                           137 XVI.    "THE WATERS OF THE
MAROS FLOW SLUGGISHLY."         143 XVII.   "I AM HERE TO SEE THAT YOU BE KIND TO HER." Uli' s master
urges him to refuse the invitation to play on the team; but the malicious neighbor talks him
over. Though the Potato Hollowers use all their skill and cunning, even to cheating the umpire,
scot- free. Uli is to confess himself the guilty party, and in return for this service the others,
all wealthy farmers' sons, will reimburse him for all expenses and give him a handsome bonus besides.
Uli' s master overhears his neighbor talking to Uli, decides to interfere, and points out to him
the noose into which he is running his head. He advises Uli to demand
a written promise, signed by all, that they will do what has been
agreed upon.

Uli brings home the written promise and shows it to his master; it turns out to be nothing but a certificate
that Uli is the guilty party. Uli is in consternation; but the master promises to help him out
if he will abide by his word in the future. Accordingly, Johannes meets
the scheming neighbor and advises him to have the other players settle
up and leave Uli in peace, or else Uli may have occasion to show the
paper to the governor.

Uli hears nothing more about the affair.] CHAPTER VII HOW THE MASTER
KINDLES A FIRE FOR THE GOOD SEED[ The author points out the disastrous
consequences of giving the servants on a farm only unheated rooms to live
in, and no access to the warm house; on Sundays they seek warmth
in the public- houses or elsewhere, and terrible immorality results.

Uli feels the need of a warm room to sit in, and the master invites him into the house. The maids
are at first much put out, and the mistress too; but the master upholds Uli, and gradually the new
custom wins favor and results in a betterment of all the servants.] CHAPTER VIII A SERVANT BECOMES
PROSPEROUS AND SOON THE SPECULATORS[ Uli becomes quite settled in
steady habits, and soon has a nice little sum of money in hand.

But others get wind of it, and they borrow various sums of him, promising
to pay back at a certain time goes on and no money is forthcoming,
Uli becomes anxious.

At length the master notices his distress, finds out the trouble,
and helps him to recover most of what he had lent, admonishing him
hereafter to put his savings in the bank.] CHAPTER IX ULI GAINS PRESTIGE
AND IMPRESSES GIRLS[ Uli' s improvement proceeds steadily, and his
self- respect with it.

The two maids are greatly impressed by him, and both set their caps for him. Stini, the elder, is
very ugly and cross- grained, but a good worker and very thrifty. Yrsi, on the other hand, is pretty and
sweet- tempered, but lazy and heedless, and wants a husband so as to avoid working. Jealously
the two watch each other' s attempts to catch Uli, who is drawn now to Yrsi' s prettiness, now to
Stini' s thrift. Their jealousy finally becomes so furious that Uli
begins to cool off, which only makes them the more eager.

Yrsi plans a master- stroke: she uncovers the liquid manure- pit,
and Stini tumbles into it.

When
she is finally hauled out, not without difficulty and amid the gibes
of the other servants, she falls like a tigress upon her rival, and
the two roll in the dirt and become such a reeking ball of filth that
no one ventures to touch them to pull them apart.

But Uli has
had enough of them both and is entirely cured, though not of his
desire for marriage.] CHAPTER X HOW ULI SELLS A COW AND ALMOST GETS
A WIFE[ Uli is sent to market with a cow, which he sells at a good
profit.

On the way home he encounters the daughter of a neighbor, struggling with four little pigs.
She begs his assistance, and as they go along she gives him a glowing account
of her father' s prosperity and the size of her dowry.

She invites him into a tavern on the way, and they take some refreshment together. Then she
goes on about herself-- how strong she is, and how much work she can do, and what a good catch she would
make. Uli cannot get in a word edgewise, but is mightily impressed
by her imposing vigor and her father' s wealth, so that he goes home
with his head in a whirl.

The master and saying that he thinks she would have him.

The master,
however, strongly dissuades him, pointing out that Katie might make
a good field- hand, but not a good wife.

She can make hay, but not soup; and there
is not so much wealth, for the farm is badly managed.

The boys will get the land, and the girls can take the leavings, which
will not amount to very much. Besides, the girls are spoiled and
will not know what to do on a small farm, after being used to a big
one; and if Uli stays there he will simply be a servant without pay.

Uli sees that the master is right, and decides to think no more of the matter.] CHAPTER XI HOW DESIRES
TAKE FORM IN A SERVANT, AND HOW A GOOD MASTER REALIZES THEM[ Uli gradually reaches something like perfection,
and his savings amount to a handsome sum. But the money seems to come
too slowly, and he begins to feel impatient. The master is at first vexed,
but sees that he must either pay Uli what will satisfy him, or let him go.
Uli suggests buying or renting something, but the master will not
hear to it; Uli has too little money for that.

Then one autumn the master goes to market and encounters there a cousin,
Joggeli, who has come, he says, to see Johannes. Joggeli tells his troubles:
he and his wife are getting old and decrepit, and can no longer look
after their large farm as formerly.

Their son Johannes has become too stuck- up for the farm and now
runs a tavern; their daughter is good for nothing, incompetent and
lazy.

The overseer
whom he has had for eleven years has been cheating him right and
left, and the other servants hand in glove with him.

Joggeli desires a new overseer, a first- class man on whom he can
depend; he would pay as high as a hundred crowns if he could find
what he wants.

Johannes recommends Uli, and Joggeli comes to have a look at him.

He does his best to find some fault in him, but can discover none. Johannes
and his wife are both reluctant to let Uli go, but they think it
is for his good, and so Uli is induced to hire out to Joggeli for
sixty crowns, two pairs of shoes, four shirts, and tips.

All hearts are heavy as New Year' s approaches, when the change is to be made. The master himself plans to drive
Uli over to his new place.] CHAPTER XII HOW ULI LEAVES HIS OLD PLACE
was made ready and the box fastened on it, and Uli had to breakfast
with the family in the living- room-- coffee, cheese, and pancakes.

When the horse was harnessed Uli could scarcely go, and when at last the time came, and he stretched
out his hand to his mistress and said," Good- bye, mother, and don' t be angry with me," the
tears rushed to his eyes again; and the mistress had to lift her
apron to her eyes, saying," I don' t know what for; I only hope you'
ll get along well.

But if you don' t like it come back any time, the sooner the better." The children would scarcely let
him go; it seemed as if his heart would break when the master finally
told them to let loose, that they must start if they wanted to get
there today, and it wouldn' t be the last time they were to see each
other; but that now there was no help for it.

When they drove away the mistress kept wiping her eyes for a long time, and had to comfort the children,
who, it seemed, could not stop weeping and lamenting.

In silence the two men drove over the gleaming snow." Steady!" the master
had to say occasionally, when the wild Blazer struck into a gallop, pulling
the light sleigh along like the wind and kicking the snow high in
the air."

It distresses me," said Uli," and more and more, the nearer we get; it' s so hard for me! I can'
t believe that I' m not running into misfortune; it seems as if
it was right ahead of me.""

That' s natural," said the master," and I wouldn' t take that as a bad omen. Think: nearly ten
years ago, when you were a ne' er- do- well and I started you going right, how hard it was for
you to do better, and how little faith you had in the possibility
that everything would turn out right.

But still it did, gradually.

Your faith got stronger, and now you' re a lad that can be said to
have won his battle.

So don' t be distressed; what you' ve got before you now is all the easier for it, and the worst
thing that can happen is that you' ll come back to me in a year. Just
keep yourself straight and watch out, for my cousin is terribly suspicious;
but once he' s taken your measure, you can put up him.

You' ll have the worst time with the other servants; go easy with them, little by little, and in
kindness as long as you can; then if that' s no good, speak right up so that you' ll know where you
are-- I wouldn' t like a year of that sort of thing myself." It was a bright, clear January day
as they drove through handsome fields, then between white fences and glittering trees, toward Slough
Farm. This property lay perhaps ten minutes' walk from Uefligen,
was over a hundred acres in size and very fruitful, but not all in one
piece; some fields and one grass- meadow lay at some distance. In
wet years it might be swampy in spots, but that they lose the game
by one point; they must set up the dinner, which ends in a free fight.

A victory in this comforts Potato Hollow somewhat. But two of the Brandywiners claim damages, and
the local players are afraid of severe judgment if it comes to trial, it being not the first offense.
They agree to a plan, devised by the malicious neighbor, to let the
entire penalty fall on Uli' s head, so that they can go could be managed.
As they drove up, Joggeli came stumping on a stick around the house,
which stood on rather low ground, and said that he had been looking
for them for a long time AND REACHES HIS NEW ONE On the following
morning the sleigh, and had almost thought they weren' t coming; he
had become impatient.

He shouted toward the barns, which were built against the house, for some one to come and take the
horse. No one came.

Uli himself had to unhitch and asked where to take Blazer."

Why, is nobody here? Nobody came.

Then the old man went angrily to the stable and pulled the door open, and
there was the carter calmly currying horses." Don' t you hear when you' re
called?" cried Joggeli." I didn' t hear anything."" Then prick up your
ears and come and take the horse." He' d have to make room for it first,
growled the fellow, and shot in among his horses like a hawk in a pigeon-
house, so that they dashed at their mangers and kicked, and Uli only by constant"
Whoas" and at risk of life got Blazer into the last stall. There he
could find no halter for a time."

Should have brought one," was the carter' s remark. When Uli went back to the sleigh and untied
his box, the wood- cutters were to help him carry it; but for a long time none stirred. Finally they dispatched
the boy, who let the handle go when they were on the stairs, so that Uli almost tumbled
down backward and only owed it to his strength that he did not. The room
to which he was shown was not bright, was unheated, and provided
with two beds. He stood in it somewhat depressed, until they called
to him to come down and get something warm to eat.

Outside, a cheerful, pretty girl received him, nutbrown of hair and eyes, red and white as to cheeks,
with kissable lips, blinding white teeth, tall and strong, yet slender
in build, with a serious face behind which lurked both mischief and
good nature.

And over the whole lay that familiar, but indescribable Something, that always testifies to inward
and outward purity, to a soul which hates the unclean and whose body
therefore never becomes unclean, or never seems so even in the dirtiest
work.

Freneli--
this was the girl' s name-- was a poor relation, who had never had a home and was always treated
like Cinderella, but always shook off the ashes-- a girl who was never dimmed outwardly or inwardly,
but met God and men and every new day with fresh and merry laughter, and hence found a home everywhere
and made a place for herself in all hearts, however they might try
to resist her; therefore she was often dearly loved by her relatives
even while they fancied they hated her, casting her out because she
was the offspring of an illicit intercourse between an aristocratic
relative and a day- laborer.

Freneli
had not opened the door. When Uli came out the brown eyes rapidly swept over him, and quite
seriously Freneli said," I suppose you' re the new overseer; they
want you to come down and get something warm to eat."

There was no need, said Uli, they had eaten something on the way. None
the less he followed the fleet girl to the living- room in silence.

In it Joggeli and Johannes were already sitting at the table, half hidden by smoking meat, both fresh and
salted, sauerkraut and dried pears. A plump, friendly old woman came to meet him, wiped her hand on her
apron, Held it out to him, and said," Are you the new overseer?

Well, well, if you' re as good as you are handsome, it' ll be all
right, I don' t doubt. Sit down and eat, and don' t be bashful; the food'
with interest.

Soon Uli' s money is all gone, but he exults in the thought of his interest.
When the time for payment comes the debtors make excuses; and as time
s there to be eaten."

On the stove bench there sat yet another form, lean, with a white
face and pale, lustreless eyes; she acted as if she were paying no
heed to anything, but had a pretty box before her, and was winding
blue silk from one ball to another.

Joggeli was telling about the time he had had with the last overseer,
and what he had had to stand since then, and how it seemed to him that
it had been much worse than he could remember now." All the torment such
a fellow can make you, and you can' t string him up for it-- it'
s not right, I swear.

It didn' t use to be so; there was a time when they hanged everybody
that stole as much as would pay for the rope.

That was something." Go then; but come back when you get cold; you' re not to work today, do you hear,"
said the mother." He' ll have something to live through," said Joggeli," they hate like poison to have
him come, and I like, but all that' s changed.

It' s enough to make you think the bad folks have nothing but their
own kind in the government, the way it lets' em get away.

Why, we don' t even hang the women that poison their husbands any
more.

Now, I' d like to know what' s worse, to break the law by killing
somebody, or by letting him live; it looks to me as if one was as
bad as the other.

And then it seems to me that if those who ought to maintain the law are the ones to break it spangled,
they deserve no forgiveness of God or men. Then I think we ought to have the right to put' em
where they belong, instead of having to pay' em besides."

During this long speech of Joggeli' s, which he fortunately delivered
inside his four walls, as otherwise it might easily have brought down
upon him an action for high treason, his wife kept constantly saying
to Johannes and especially to Uli," Take some more, won' t you, that'
s what it' s for; or don' t you like it?

We give what we' ve got-- it' s bad enough; but at least we don'
t grudge it to you.( Joggeli, do fill up the glasses; look, they' re empty.)
Drink, won' t you, there' s more where that came from. Our son gave
us the wine; they say it' s good; he bought it himself down in Italy; it
actually cost fivepence halfpenny the quart, and not too full a quart
at that."

When Uli did not wish to take any more the old woman still kept putting food before him, stuck the
fork into the largest pieces and then thrust them off on his plate with her thumb, saying," Ho,
you' re a fine fellow if you can' t get that down too; such a big lad
must eat if he wants to keep his strength, and we' re glad to give it
to him; whoever wants to work has got to eat. Take some more, do."
But at last Uli really could eat nothing more, took up his cap, prayed,
and stood up to go."

Stay awhile," said Joggeli;" where are you going? They' ll look after your Blazer, I gave' em strict
orders."" Oh, I' d like to go out and look around a bit and see how
I like it," said Uli think the carter would have liked to be overseer.
But I don' t care if they are against each other.

It' s never good to have the servants on too good terms; it always comes out of the master."" Ho,"
said Johannes," that' s as you take it. If the servants are on one side and the master on the
other, then he has a hard time and can' t do anything. But when the servants are all against
each other, and each one does his best to vex the others, and one won' t help another-- that'
s bad for the master too; for after all in the end everything hits the master and his interests.
I think it' s a true saying that peace prospers, discord destroys. I don' t just his wife are
pleased with Uli' s success, and the master hands over to Uli the profit he has made on the cow.
Uli asks the master about the neighbor' s Katie, like it here. Nobody
came to take the horse; nobody wanted to help Uli with his box; each
one does as he likes, and they don' t fear anybody.

Cousin, that won' t be good. I must tell you, Uli won' t stay here
under those conditions.

If he' s to be overseer and have the responsibility, he wants order too;
he won' t let' em all do as they please. Then there' ll be a fuss; it will
all come back on him, and if you don' t back him up he' ll run off.
 There they were,
perched up on a rough platform made up of packing-cases borrowed from the station-master; the
czimbalom player in the centre, his fat, brown hands wield the tiny clappers with unerring
precision, up and down the strings, with that soft, lingering tone which partakes of the clavecins
and the harp alike. At the back the double-bass, lean and dark, with jet-black eyes that stare
stolidly at his leader.

There is a second fiddle, and the fat clarinetist and, of course, the leader--he whose match
could not be found in the kingdom. He stands on the very edge of the rough platform, his fiddle
under his chin, and he stoops well forward, so that his hands and instrument almost touch the
foremost of the dancing pairs.

They--the dancers--crowd closely round the gipsy band, for so must the csárdás be danced, as
near the musicians as possible, as close together as the wide, sweeping petticoats of the girls
will allow.

Such petticoats! One on the top of the other, ten or a dozen or more, and all of different
colour: the girls are proud of these petticoats--the number of them is a sign of prosperity;
and now as they dance and swing from the hips these petticoats fly out, caught by the currents
of air until they look like gargantuan showers of vividly-coloured petals shaken by giant hands.

Above the petticoats the girls' waists look slim in the dark, tight-fitting corslet, above
which again rises the rich, olive-tinted breast and throat; full white sleeves of linen crown
the bare, ruddy arms, and ribbons of national colours--red, white and green--float from the
shoulders and the waist.

The smooth, thick hair is closely plaited, from the crown of the head in two long, tight plaits;
it is drawn rigidly away from the forehead, giving that quaint, hard finish to the round, merry
face which is so characteristic of the Asiatic ancestry.

Each one of them a little picture which seems to have stepped straight out of a Velasquez canvas,
the bell-shaped skirt, the stiff corslet, the straight, tight hair and round eyes full of vitality.

The men wear their linen shirt and full trousers with fringed, embroidered ends, the leather
waistcoat and broad belt covered with metal bosses and wrought with bright-coloured woollen
threads. They get very excited in the mazes of the dance, they shout to the gipsies to play
faster and ever faster; each holds his partner tightly round the slim waist and swings her
round and round, till she stumbles, giddy and almost faint in his arms.

And round the dancers in a semicircle the spectators stand in a dense crowd--the older folk
and the girls who have not secured partners--they watch and watch, indefatigable like the dancers,
untiring like the musicians. During the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every consideration.
Food was scarce, owing to the fact that the roads were so well shelled by
our artillery that their transport could not come up; but they shared
their food with me.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way made
me as comfortable as possible. Being able to speak a little German,
I talked to the other wounded, and found that their papers also published
dreadful tales of our treatment of prisoners, which I am glad to say
I was able to refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, A BRITISH OFFICER. December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair- minded men to the last
sentences.

Here is a letter written by Second- Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce( aged 18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld
on October 27, and printed in the Times of November 19, 1914: We
are treated very well indeed here.

We
have she good beds and fires in the rooms, three good meals a day,
and a French soldier for a servant, and this morning I had a splendid
hot bath.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a. m. and 9.45 p. m., and lights
out at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard to walk about in. We have
a canteen here where we can on the train; he got me food, and when
one man tried to get in to attack me he threw him off the train.

I am afraid I am out of the firing line until the war ends( worse luck). I am in no danger of being shot unless
I try to bolt, which I shan’ t do. I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted
to have me shot, but luckily nobody seemed to agree with him.

The next time I saw him he had been bandaged up— he was shot through the shoulder— and he dashed
up and shook me by the hand and shouted,“ Mein Freund, mein Freund.”
On November 25 other letters appeared in the Times.

One was from a cavalry subaltern in a German fortress: You ask about money;
they provide lights and firing and all the men’ s food. The officers
get 16s. a week and buy their own.

Quite sufficient, as it is cheap. I have learnt German fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the shop for
the men, though, I am afraid, tant mal que bien.

One of the officials here used to be a professor and is very kind trying to teach us. Thanks for
the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs.

We
have quite good matches.... It is better not to try to send any public
news of any kind from England; people having been stupid trying to
smuggle letters in cakes and things, and it only makes trouble for
everyone.

A Captain writes: For dinner at 1 p. m. we are given soup, meat and
vegetables.... Supper takes place at 7 o’ clock and consists of tea,
sausages or meat and potatoes.... We receive£ 5 a month as pay, of
which 1s.

6d. is deducted for food each day. We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything we want,...
so there is no need to send me anything at all, except perhaps those
small 7d. editions of novels.

An English lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich: I must tell you I had permission to visit a wounded
English officer, a cousin, and I think it would reassure many people
at home to know how warmly he speaks of the great kindness that has
been shown him now for five months, as well as the skill and attention
of the doctors.—( Times, March 17, 1915.) Here, too, is a letter from
Lieut.- Observer J.  E.  P. Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire
Yeomanry, and attached to the Royal Flying Corps: I met one of the
pilots of the German machines that had attacked us.

He could speak English well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight.

I had brought down his machine with my machine- gun, and he had to
land quite close to where I landed.

He had a bullet through his radiator and petrol tank, but neither
he nor his observer was touched. I met two German officers that knew several
people that I knew, and they were most awfully kind to me. They gave
me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and I was treated
like an honoured guest.

I then came by train the next day to Mainz, where I was confined
in a room by myself for two days.

I have now been moved into a general room with eight other English officers, where we sleep and eat. We are
treated very well, and play hockey and tennis in the prison yard.—( News of the
World, February 27, 1916.) Miss Colenso gives the following account, which
appeared in the Daily News of June 28, 1918: A minister friend of
mine told me the story of a young Scottish boy of his acquaintance,
now a military prisoner in Germany— I forget for the moment in which
camp.

This
boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’ s
serious illness and the doctor’ s verdict that she could only live
a few weeks.

The German Commandant, finding the boy in great distress, asked him what
was the matter, and on learning the cause of his grief, said:“ Would
you like to go home to your mother?” The boy sprang up, exclaiming indignantly,“
How can you mock me when you know it is impossible?”“ But you shall go, my
boy,” said the commandant.“ I will pay your return fare on condition
that you give me your word of honour to come back here.” The boy went
home to Scotland and remained by his mother’ s side for about three
weeks till her death, when, true to his word, he returned to Germany.

The writer of“ Under the Clock” considers that“ well-
attested” stories of this kind should be given publicity. It is even
more necessary to examine the“ attestation” of the other kinds of
stories, for all the bias is against the enemy, and demand is apt
to create supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ. I pass on now to a report
made by a United attribute Official.

The American Consul writes from Leipzig under date of November 16, 1914:“
On Saturday afternoon, the 14th instant, I visited the military concentration
camp near Merseburg, where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned.
The object of my visit was to investigate the claim of a French prisoner that
he is an American subject. The result of my observations regarding
the welfare and humane treatment of the prisoners at large was a
surprise to me.... Separated by nationality, these prisoners are housed
in wooden buildings, well built, ventilated and heated.... They sleep
upon straw mattresses in good- warmed quarters, and, as far as I could
judge, are as well or better housed than labourers upon public works
in the United States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee and bread. Dinner consists of
vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper they are given
bread and coffee.

I was informed that many of the prisoners have some money, and that they are allowed to buy whatever
else they may wish to eat. If I may judge from the mounds of empty
beer bottles at hand, there is evidence in support of this statement.

The prisoners appeared to be in good health and cheerful, many of them engaging
in games and other pastimes.” The diet described must be frightfully
monotonous.

Feeding has throughout been one
of the German difficulties.“ Germany claims to hold 433,000 prisoners
of war,” wrote an anonymous American journalist( probably in November,
1914);“ the housing and feeding of so great a number must be a tremendous
strain upon resources drained by the necessities of war.” The numbers
must now exceed two million.

The Press
article referred to[ Misc. No. 7( 1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life,
and the verminousness of the men( they were of mixed nationality) in
the camp at Döberitz which he visited.( See, however, the further
official reports quoted below at p. 9).

But the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side.“ One hears of battles in which no quarter
is granted. There are stories of one side or the other refusing an armistice to permit the other to gather
its wounded. Each side is desperately determined to win, and neither is counting the cost. So men
must rust in prison camps until the struggle is over.” The monotony in this
case seems to have been varied by fights between the prisoners of same
nationality, each set considering that the others had not done their part
in the war. We need not be contemptuous about that. The monotony
of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce the maximum degree of
mutual friction. There is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner of
war.

To be forced to remain She, day and night, for months and years in idleness,
with a crowd of others, not of one’ s own is, I believe, one of the
psychological factors which make internment( especially to many civilians)
decidedly worse than imprisonment in a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE American Embassy, London, December 23, 1914, 22nd from Berlin Embassy:“ Foreign Office
reports receiving many complaints that money and packages sent German
military and civilian prisoners in enemy countries from Germany do
not reach addresses.

Please secure information for Department to forward German Foreign
Office whether money and other postal matter will be delivered to
such prisoners promptly and intact.— AND PACKAGES.

My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints
about the other. Telegram received by BRYAN, Washington.” There is no doubt
that many letters and parcels have not reached German prisoners in
England. Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this.( Times report.

March 11, 1915.) In spite of this, I have no doubt that the British authorities have done their best to
expedite delivery. I would suggest that this is probably the case on the other side, too. We shall
indeed later come upon some definite statements in support of this
view. One frequent cause of the non- arrival of parcels in Germany has
been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M. P.( buy clothes
and anything we want. Prison fare is very good— new rolls and coffee
and fresh butter. Not bad!

I had a very decent guard when I was coming up Daily Mail, November 8,
1916, and Reprint): I did not approach this subject quite“ new to
the game.” I had already visited general post offices in England,
Switzerland and elsewhere, and had seen thousands, literally thousands,
of food parcels intended for our prisoners of war in Germany falling
to bits and incapable of being forwarded for want of skilled packing.

The sight was enough to make angels weep. To think that so much self- sacrifice had been exercised in
humble homes to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken cigarettes, and what not, in
order that these should reach son or brother or sweetheart in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving
hands, that in the first rough and tumble of the post the paper burst,
the string came undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in
an inextricable jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take
opportunities for mean thefts.

We have all had experience of that during this war, and the following cutting
from the Daily News of October 5, 1915, may be given in illustration: In
a letter of thanks to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick and Scotswood
workmen, formed for the purpose of sending comforts to the troops, Sir Ian
Hamilton says: I am extremely touched by the extraordinary generosity and
kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen. I will take great care
to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted for this most handsome contribution.
Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid some
of the gifts, and will arrive in good condition. If there are, alas,
not a few men who will steal from their comrades, there are not likely
to be fewer who will steal from their enemies.

Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on both sides
soon became commendably regular.

The care shown on the German side is warmly praised by Captain Gilbert
Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate good deeds even after
enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse stories from others.

The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians.
In his book“ Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes: I was very
much impressed with the fair and systematic handling of our parcels,
letters and money; even letters and postcards which arrived for me
after I had been sent back to England, were re- addressed and sent
back.

A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after I had left was even
returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the pressing need
of the German War Loan.—( Daily News, January 25, 1918.) An acquaintance
of my own, a. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large camp
with between three and four thousand British prisoners.“ So far as
I could ascertain, British soldiers are called upon to do only their
share in fatigue work.... So far as I could ascertain, after inquiry
of a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping of either
incoming or outgoing correspondence.... The camp at Döberitz is in
a healthy location, and the barracks are new and of a permanent character....
They are at lecturer in a technical school, spoke to me to the same
effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become
quite shattered in transit( p. p. 7).

The Germans transferred the contents to a sack, and, as he said, the temptation to pilfer the
sorely- needed foodstuffs must have been great. My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation against
disease. ALTDAMM. camp at Stargard on which he had reported previously.“ It appears to me that
every effort is being made to treat the prisoners of war as humanely
as possible in the two camps I visited.

Dry and warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps
monotonous, but of good material and well prepared, sanitary arrangements
are good, and the health of the men is carefully looked after.” RUMOURS
V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to
by the German Government, and on February 23, 1915, Sir Edward Grey
wrote to Mr. Page( the American in London) complaining that no definite
replies to his questions were forthcoming.“ His Majesty’ s Government,”
he continues,“ have only unofficial information and rumours on the
subject to guide them, which they trust do not accurately represent
the facts.” The“ unofficial information and rumours” had, however,
attained wide publicity, and obtained still more later.

The German authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection of detention
camps and consideration of complaints.

The reports now to be cited were made after this date.[ Misc. 11( 1915)].
I propose to give examples of almost all the earlier reports, for it
was in the earlier stages of the war that there was most difficulty everywhere
in providing accommodation for prisoners. We ought not to forget that
the earliest reports on our own camps which the British Government
have published begin with February, 1916.[ 2] DŒBERITZ.

On March
31 Mr least as good as those used by the Germans at in the same neighbourhood.
As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances,
but there were no general complaints, except with regard to the German
character of the food— and those were the exact counterparts of complaints
made to me by German prisoners in England.” I have italicised the
last clause as it will surely, to a fair- minded man, seem a somewhat
important one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says: Until
two weeks ago the Russians and English were, in cases, housed together— a
source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account of vermin. The
races have now been separated.

The men all stated that they had the two blankets and the other requisites
provided in the German rules, and I heard but one complaint about overcrowding.
Most of the English and French receive clothes from home. All the prisoners
who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men stated that
On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp
at Altdamm near Stettin.

The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the this was carried
out according to the rules. No complaints whatever were made regarding
the Commandant, the non- commissioned officers, or the general government
of the camp. The food was the source of the few real complaints that could
be heard, although at least half of the men spoken to admitted that
it was quite as good as could possibly be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea that everything
that could reasonably be expected was done for the men by the authorities
in charge. THREE POOR CAMPS. Mr. Jackson’ s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg,
Magdeburg and Halle a/ d Saale are the most unfavourable. They were
all small officers’ camps, Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle
50 British officers. There were a few orderlies at each camp. The
chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service for officers
and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were used for all
purposes, there being no special mess or recreation rooms.

There seemed, however, to be no discrimination against the British. GŒTTINGEN. Mr. Page himself reports
on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000 prisoners.“ The Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done
everything possible to make this a model camp, and he has accomplished
a great work.

The only complaint is as to the food, the quantity of which, of course, is not under the control of
the Commandant, as he is limited to an expenditure of only 60 pfennigs(
about 7d.) per day per man.“ Everything was in the most beautiful
order.

There was a very fine steam laundry and drying room, bath
rooms, with hot and cold showers, and the closets, etc., are in a
very good condition and scientifically built.

There is running water and electricity in the camp. A French barrister of Arras, named Léon Paillet,
who was working with the French Red Cross and who, for some reason or other, has been made a
prisoner, has done marvellous work in organising libraries, etc.“
I am pleased to say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen have,
from the first, taken an interest in this camp, and Professor Stange
has done much in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y. M. C. A. building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A.  C. Harte, who for a number of years has
been working with the Y about.

M. C. A. in India, will be a great help to the men in the camp.“ At the
opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte, and Professor
Stange, and then each speech was delivered in English and French by
prisoners. These were followed by short speeches by French, English, and
Belgian prisoners.

Then came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp singing society, followed by songs and recitations
by various prisoners.” Dr. Ohnesorg reported further on April 22.

At that time there were 6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were British. He
warmly commends the steam laundry, the steam disinfecting plant, and
the hospital.“ A spirit of contentment pervaded the camp. The British prisoners
were well clothed. I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable
soup, which was very palatable and, I should say, nourishing.... The citizens
of Göttingen have taken a great interest in the camp, and some of
them, notably Professor Stange, of the University, have given a great
deal of their time to the welfare of prisoners and the formation of
classes for study amongst them.” GERMAN HELP FOR PRISONERS.

The
interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners of
war is little recognised in this country.

The Berlin Committee( of which more will be said later) has received considerable support. At the end of
June, 1916, a meeting in support of its work was held at the house of
Prince Lichnowsky, former Ambassador in London, who returned specially
from the front to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many
notable men and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection
of 8,000 marks( about£ 400) was made.

COLOGNE.

Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals
in which wounded British prisoners are lying.

He reports as follows: These institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered hospitals that little
need be said of their employment or management.

They are provided with all the machinery and paraphernalia usual to surgical
work on a large scale, contain all standard and necessary conveniences
and fittings, afford to patients a maximum of protection in the matter
of sanitation, quiet and relief from preventable irritation, and
are conducted in a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane
way.

The names
of the 49 wounded British prisoners are hereunto annexed.

I personally spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them I conversed
privately and without being overheard. With but one exception no English-
speaking British prisoner had any complaint to make, and a number of
the British prisoners eagerly expressed to me their appreciation for the care and
attention given them. The physical condition of the Indians is particularly
good. Only 21 deaths have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in
hospital No. VI. since the war began, and the death rate in the other
two hospitals is correspondingly low.

The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable in
view of the many grave injuries treated.

In closing I may say that there is no discrimination or segregation among
the patients and that certain French patients with whom I spoke expressed,
likewise, their appreciation for the care and attention given them.
 It was so hard to walk out of fairyland just when she had entered it, and
found it more beautiful than anything else in life. The paths looked so smooth and so inviting,
and fairy forms beckoned to her from afar; it all would have been so easy, if only the good
God had willed it so. She thought of the many sins which--in her innocent life--she had committed,
and for which Pater Bonifácius had given her absolution; perhaps if she had been better--been
more affectionate with her mother, more forbearing with her father, the good God would have
allowed her to have this happiness in full which now appeared so shadowy.

She fell to wishing that Andor had not been quite so fine and quite so strong, that his chest
had been narrower, or his eyesight less keen. Womanlike, she felt that she would have loved
him just as much and more, if he were less vigorous, less powerful; and in that case the wicked
government would not want him; he could stay at home and help Pali bácsi to look after his
lands and his mills, and she could marry him before the spring. 

She could not have told what made the frantic, overmastering fear,
under the impulse of which she had suddenly thrown the baby down on
the bed and fled to Justin-- what strange force of thought- transference,
imagined or real, had called her there.

Dosia shook her head. Let me go, Lois!" He wanted to, sell the island; he sent me off on that
business lately. No matter what experience he had passed through in his struggle with the world,
he had held some simple, honorable, clean quality intact. Bailey Girard would
be the last man on earth to whom she could bare her heart in confession;
these were the things that touched him on the raw.

You can' t make a person have confidence in you.

Get my things out of the closet now, Dosia, and my gloves from that drawer, the top one. My pocket-
book is in the desk. So far it would be all right, then.

He seemed to take up all the corner, against the background of the green honeysuckle in the fresh morning
light." If the children wake up, they won' t be afraid with her; but you'
ll be here, anyway."

Dosia felt carried out of herself by a sudden heady resolution-- or, rather, not a new resolution,
but one that she had had in mind for a long, long time, before, oh,
before she had even known who this man was."

If there' s nobody else to get that money for him, I' ll rise up and
get it. She could not sit here with him in this new, sweet friendliness
without saying them. And see about the children. When she was beside him,
she smiled into his gentle, stricken eyes, telling him little fondly-
foolish anecdotes of the children to make him smile also; patting
him, talking of the summer, when they would go off together-- anything
to make him forget, even though the effort left her breathless afterward.

I--" She began now, in a moment' s pause, only to find, too late, that all warmth and naturalness had left her
with the effort. Am I to just sit down and let my husband die, when he' s in such trouble as this?" I
want to thank you for being so kind to me the night of that accident
on the train coming up from the South."

Something sadly humorous, yet noble and imposing, seemed to emanate from his presence, weak and a failure
though he was.

Her eyes fell for a moment on his hand, as it lay upon the table, with
a terribly disconcerting remembrance that hers had not only rested
in it, but that in fancy she had more than once pillowed her cheek
upon it, and, knowing that he had seen the look, she continued in
desperation, with still increasing stiffness and formality:" I have
always known, of course, babies.

Haledon
itself was a junction for many lines, with a crowd of people on the
platform continually coming and that it was you.

If
she had pain for all her life afterward, she was glad at this moment
up- stairs with a sick- headache!

He wouldn' t let Justin have it, but he' ll give it to me-- if I' m not too proud to ask for
it; and I' m not too proud." We left them the parlor, but they preferred the sitting- room." That' s
what I that he was worthy to be loved; she need never be ashamed
of loving him-- he was" good." The eternal hurt of love, that it never can
be truly one with the beloved, touched her with its sadness, and then
slipped away in the thought of him now-- not the man who was just
to help and protect her with his love, but the man whom she longed
to help also."

Oh, pray don' t mention it," he said, with a formality that matched
hers.

You need never be afraid of that, Lois." A pistol lying there in its leather
case, as it had done any time this five years, for a reserve protection
against burglars, caught his eyes.

She watched him go off down the path with that swift west of the gray suit was out of sight-- he had a fashion
of wearing gray!-- before clearing off the table."

Oh, there' s many a woman-- like me-- who always knows, even though
she never acts on the knowledge, that there is some man she could
go to for help, and get it, just because she was herself-- a woman
and in trouble-- just for that!

And now-- how beautiful he was, how dear!" Oh, no; but, when I get up, you won' t see me going
past much longer." We' ve been under quite a strain, but it' s all over
now-- I' m sure I can tell you.

Even if she never had this-- even if she never had anything more. He missed
his handkerchief, and rose and went over, with a swaying unsteadiness,
to his chiffonier drawer in the farther corner to get one."

I' ll catch up with you in a moment," she him alone-- if in some way, as she dimly visioned it,
the thought had once been his, it had gone long ago. Nothing, he knew, could take it from him; it
was a faith that he had won from the battle with his own soul.

And yet, and yet-- so unconquerably does the soul speak that, though
he might deny her attraction for him, she knew that she had it. There was
something newly impassioned in the duskiness of her eyes, in the
fulness of her red lips, in every sweeping movement of her body, which
seemed caused by the obsession of a hidden fiery force that held her
apart and afar, goddess- like, even while she spoke of and handled
the things of every- day life.

All that year at home, when she believed she had not been thinking of him,
she really had been thinking of him.

Suddenly, as he held it there, leaning against the chiffonier, his thin white face with its deep
black shadows under the eyes reflected by the high, narrow glass, the
four walls faded away from him, with their familiar objects; his
face gleamed whiter and whiter; the shadows grew blacker; only his
eyes stared---- A room, noticed once a year and a half ago, came before
him now with a creeping, all- possessing distinctness-- that loathsome,
dreadful room( long since renovated) which, with its unmentionable
suggestion of horror, had held him spellbound on that morning when
he had begun his career at the factory.

She must see Truth," and be glad, even if it hurt." He gave to
every one; he would work early and late for others, in his yearning sympathy
and affection: yet he himself, from the very intenseness of his desire
for it, stood aloof, and drew back from the insistence of any claim
for himself.

If he knew that!" No, not until to- morrow night always have some heart- warm dream to live by
had it now; for all her life she could love him, pray for him.

There wasn' t any written agreement, you know." If it' s his responsibility,
it' s mine, too-- mine as well as his!" She began to perceive in
him now a humility and a pride strangely at variance with each other
and both equally at variance with the bright assurance of his outer
manner.

The sunshine fell upon her in the garden; she was bathed in it. The train went at seven- thirty. She saw
in that lovely, brooding thought of him what that first meeting had taught
of his character, and molded in with it her knowledge of him now,
to make the real man far more imperfect, though far dearer."

Are you sure Mr. Larue will be there?" she asked anxiously.

She could never talk of Lawson-- her past must be forever unshriven and uncomforted. He' s the kind
of man you can' t ask; you have to wait until he tells you. I must take him with me." How many times
had George Sutton' s face blotted out hers? They might meet a hundred
times and grow no closer; they might grow farther and farther away.

She must forever be unshriven. She looked at the common- place surroundings, at the children, at Dosia;
but she saw only Justin. The old unapproachable manner instantly incased him, as if in remembrance
of something that hurt." Dosia! His pleased eyes, his lips, the way
his hair fell over his forehead-- She thought of him with the fond
dream- passion of the maiden, that is often the shyest thing on earth,
ready to veil itself and turn and elude and hide at the first chance
that it may be revealed.

When she came back, pale and collected, it was to say:" Justin' s gone to sleep now. Cater himself
looked extraordinarily, long, easy step; watched till the last vestige
lean and yellow.

All the trouble, all the stress of the world, seemed to encompass her with that tone in the voice
of Lois." Oh, very well, if you like," responded Lois indifferently.
An impression of Justin as of something noble and firm seemed to emanate
from the room where he lay and fill the house; in his complete abdication,
he dominated as never before.

Lois spoke with rapid distinctness, stooping as she did so to pick
up the scattered toys on the floor and push the chairs into place,
as one who mechanically attends to the usual duties of routine, no
matter what may be happening."

But he' s out at Collingswood!" said Dosia, bewildered. Will you see about what we need for meals? Do!"
She had imagined the scene in so many different ways! They' re in the nursery now, but I' ll send them
down; they had better play outdoors, where he won' t hear them." I reckon
I took a shine to you the first day I met up with you," continued Cater helplessly.
For a man to stop work and come home because he is not well argues at
once the most serious need for it."

Mr. Larue!" With all her anxiety, Dosia was filled now with a wondering
knowledge of something unnatural about Lois, not to be explained by the
fact of Justin' s illness. It was something to which he might never
give way, but it was unalterably there-- as it was unalterably there
with her. There would be things also, perhaps, that she could not
bear to hear!

When she
had gone over it by herself, her cheeks had flushed, her eyes had
shone with the tears in them.

The words as she spoke them had gone deeply, convincingly, from heart
to heart-- or perhaps, in an assumed, tremulous lightness, the meaning
in her impulse had shown all the clearer to one who understood.

When she went out of the room and came back again, she found him still watching the place where she had
been with haggard, feverish, burning eyes. It was a pretty little toy.
There was a ring at the door- bell in the middle of the morning,
which might have been the doctor, but which turned out surprisingly
to be Mr. Angevin L. Cater.

Freedom from care!" I' ll find out," said Dosia, and came down in a moment with the word that Justin would
like to see the visitor. Suddenly she saw that the sunshine had
faded out, the sky had grown gray, a chill wind had sprung up." Oh,
Lois, what can you do?"

I' m not a coward, to go and leave you that way." I hope not for long,"
said the visitor." Well, Cater, you find me down," said Justin, with
glittering, cold cheerfulness. A wistful smile trembled around her
lips. I' ll soon be out of the old place.

What Mr. Alexander imperatively needed was rest, and, above all things,
freedom from care."

Why, Dosia, my dear, I didn' t see you; don' t speak loud!"" Mr. Alexander,"
began Cater, clearing his throat and bending earnestly toward Justin,"
I hope you ain' t going to hold it up against me that I had to make
a different business deal from what we proposed.

Oh, and get out baby' s cloak and cap, too. She had always thought that to love was to be happy;
now she was to love and be unhappy-- yet she would not have it otherwise."

Is Mr. Girard in?

Mother' s white shawl is in there, and I haven' t been able to get
it."" Get me the waist to this and my walking- jacket.

But a man' s got to do the best he can for himself in this world."" Very well, then; I' ll go, too," stated
Dosia in desperation." I' d be mighty sorry to have anything come between us." Oh, yes, yes;
I' ll attend to everything," affirmed Dosia hurriedly, going off for her first duty at the telephone,
while Lois disappeared up- stairs." I' d be mighty sorry to think we weren' t friends." I can' t stand
it Lois, and ran back quickly. If he had ever thought of her, if he had ever dreamed of her, if
her soft, frightened hand trustfully clinging fast to his any longer,
when it' s killing him! Poor Dosia instantly felt committed to a
mistake."

I can be friends with you, but you can' t be friends with me, Cater; it isn' t in you to know how,"
he said.

Men of his age who were successful were sought for, but men of his age who were not had a pretty
hard row to hoe."

Well, good- by," said the other, rising, his long, angular figure knocking
awkwardly against chairs and tables as he went out, leaving Justin
lying there alone, with his head throbbing horribly.

She sank her voice to a low murmur, so as not to disturb the child.
A certain faith-- the candid, boyish, unquestioning faith in the
adequacy of his knowledge of those whom he had called his friends--
was gone; the face of Leverich came to him, brutal in its unveiled
cupidity, showing what other men felt but concealed; yet his own
faith in honor and honesty remained, stronger and higher than ever
before.

Every action showed it. By to- morrow night that note of Lewiston'
s would be protested, and then-- the burning pain of failure gripped
him in its racking clutches once more, though he strove to fight it
off.

It was twenty miles, a forty- minute ride, to Haledon, where they changed
cars for the little branch road that went past Collingswood-- a signal
station, as the conductor who punched their tickets impressed on Lois."
Good- by." Lois was long gone-- probably she was with the baby. Yet
what had she?

What happened afterward she did not know, except that in a few minutes he had gone. He took it
out of its case, examining the little weapon carefully, back at a little after nine, though it might
really be nearer ten. Won' t you please have some of these strawberries
with me? I with his finger on the trigger, half cocking it, to see
if it needed oil.

He would not go to bed, but lay on the outside of it in his dressing-
gown, so that he might get ready the more quickly to go downtown again
if the doctor" fixed him up," though now he felt weighted from head
to foot with stones.

We learn to know each other sometimes in long absences. It held him
spellbound now, evilly, insidiously." Justin saw him Saturday. Cold
to his touch, it moved---- The door opened, and Lois, with a face
of awful calm, glided up to him."

He will lend me the money," said Lois, with a grateful confidence that
seemed to shut out every conventional, every worldly suggestion,
and to breathe only of her need and the willingness of a friend to
help-- not alone for the need' s sake, but for hers."

You oughtn' t to be doing this for me; I ought to be taking care of you," he said, with a tender
self- reproach that seemed to come from a new, hitherto unknown Justin,
who watched her face to see if it showed fatigue, and counted the
steps she took for him.

He looked oddly shrunken; the quality of his smile of greeting seemed
to have shrunk also-- something had gone out of it."

It was nothing but what anyone would have done-- little enough, anyway.""

No," said Lois, with smiling, white lips.

She busied herself making him comfortable, divining his wants and
getting things for him, simply and noiselessly, and then knelt down
beside him where he lay, putting her arms around him."

Why, you needn' t have been afraid, dear," he said at once, looking at her with a gentle surprise.
The doctor came, and sent him off sternly to bed, and came again
later."

Oh, Lois," said Dosia, half weeping. Grip, brought on by overwork, had evidently taken a disregarded
hold some time before, and must reckoned with now. I guess the game is
up, as far as I' m concerned."

I heard Mr. Alexander was taken ill this morning and had gone home,
and as I had to come out this way on business, I thought I' d just
drop in and see if there was anything I could do for him in town,"
he stated to Dosia.

Every footfall was taken to- day with reference to this.

I want you to telephone for the doctor, and you ask him to get here
as soon as he can.""

I am not needed here. The light was still brightly that of day at a quarter of seven, when Dosia, who
had been putting Zaidee and Redge to bed, came into Lois' room, and
found her with crimson cheeks and eyes red from weeping.

Dosia, if I go to Eugene Larue myself, in trouble-- such trouble----"

Justin' s brilliant eyes surveyed him serenely. He can' t rest unless he has that money. Fluent
dream- practice is only too apt to make one uncomfortably crude and
conscious in real life.

Is that all I can do?

Mrs. Bently is in there-- I sent for her; she says she' ll stay until
I get back."

Mine as well as his! So slight, so young, so lightly dealt with, Dosia had the pathetically
clear insight and the power that comes to those who see, not themselves
alone, their own desires and hopes, but the universe in which they
stand, and view their acts and thoughts in relation to it.

She hit her soft hand against the sharp edge of the table, and was unconscious that it bled.
She had planned over and over again how she was to say those words,
and now the time had come.

Lois did not ask her why she had stopped; her spirit seemed to be wrapped in an obscurity as
enshrouding as the darkness that was gathering around them. He says there
is no help left, but he forgets that there' s his wife!"

The last time he looked grave, ordered complete quiet, and left sedatives to insure it. The fact
that his clothes were new and of a fashionable cut seemed only to
make him the more grotesque. There, you' ve waked the baby-- he'
s crying."

If there had been, I' d' a' stuck to it, of course. No, give me the baby first; he' s hungry."" Yes.
The house must be lighted and the gas turned down, and the new maid impressed with the fact
that they would be' ve been thinking about it a powerful lot. I forgot that I couldn' t leave
him. He" hated the sound of Lawson' s name." Yet, strangely enough,
in spite of it, his mind felt luminously clear, in that a certain power
seemed to have come to him-- a power of correlating all the events
of the past eighteen months and placing them in their relative sequence.

It only takes three quarters of an hour; I' ve looked it up in the time- table." To Eugene Larue." It is the
public crossing of the danger zone. She spoke collectedly, bending over the child as she held
him to her, and straightening the folds of the little garments. He' ll let me have the money-- he'
ll understand. Mr. Sutton has just proposed to Ada-- in the sitting- room. She spoke in a tone
the more thrilling for its enforced calm.

As they got beyond it, at the corner turning, she looked back, and
saw that Miss Bertha had come out on the piazza."

Lois!" Then she went and sat on the back steps that led into the little garden, bright with the sunshine
and a blaze of tulips at her feet.... She had never supposed that any girl could care for a man until
he had shown that he cared for her-- it was the unmaidenly, impossible
thing. At Dosia' s entrance she rose at once from her chair, and
Dosia saw that she was partially dressed in her walking- skirt; she
flared out passionately in speech as she was crossing the room, as
if in answer to some implied criticism:" I don' t care what you say--
I don' t care what anybody says."

And, Dosia!" she arrested the girl as she was disappearing," I may not be down- stairs again.
She did not know whether she were relieved or sorry that Girard was not there. The train leaves here
at seven- thirty, it connects at Haledon." Where are you going?"
asked Dosia. I' ll be back here again by ten o' clock. For a year
and a half the uttered thought had been the climax to which her dreams
had led; it would have seemed a monstrous, impossible thing that it
had not been reached before.

She stopped with a sudden intense motion of listening,
then put the child from her and ran across the hall to the opposite
room. Dosia, where are you?" The doctor says he will be under the influence of
the anodynes until morning. Why, whose trouble is it? Mrs. Bently
was a woman of the plainer class, half nurse, half friend, capable
and kind.

With that smile upon his face, he seemed extraordinarily masculine and absorbing, yet appealing,
too." Leave the baby with me," implored Dosia. After Lois was ready, she went in once more to look at
Justin as he slept-- his head thrown forward a little on the pillow, his right hand clasped,
and his knees bent as one supinely running in a dream race with fate.

The whole thing was very bewildering. He won' t be any bother, he'
s so little and so light." had anything more in her whole life, she"

Has he?" asked the sick man, with an enigmatic, questioning smile.

More than that, there seemed to be a peculiar poignancy, a peculiar sweetness, in every little thing
done for him; it made one honorable to serve him. You must have some
one with you if you have baby!"

No; only
that he is very much worried over them." You must!" XXVI" Justin has come home ill; he was taken with a
chill as soon as he got to town; he came in a carriage from the
station. But that the suggestion was an unconscious relief to her she showed
the next moment, as she gave some directions to Dosia, who put a
few necessaries and some biscuits in a little hand- bag, and an extra
blanket for the baby in case it should grow chilly.

Whether she had nights of straining, bitter wakefulness and days of heartache afterward, this joy
of loving was enough for her to- day-- the joy of loving him." There,
there, dear little heart, dear little heart, mother' s comfort--
oh, my comfort, my blessing!"

No, I can' t-- suppose I were detained? Then the two women walked down
the street toward the station, Lois absorbed in her own thoughts, and
Dosia distracted, confused, half assenting and half dissenting to
the expedition.

Lois stooped over and laid her cheek to his hair, to his hand, as one who sought for the swift,
reviving warmth of the spirit. Yet, if he ever loved her as she loved him, part of that for which
she had always sought love would have to be foregone-- she could never come
to him, as she had fondly dreamed of doing, and pour out to him all those
hopes and fears, those struggles and mistakes and trials and indignities,
the shame and the penitence that had been hers.

He stood by that blackened, ashy hearth in the foul room, with its damp, mottled, rotting walls,
his eyes fastened on that hideous sofa to which he was drawn-- drawn a little nearer and a little nearer, the
thing in his hand-- did it move itself? He said he was going out there then for the summer."" No;
you must eat them all," said Dosia, with charming authority, her
arms before her on the table, elbow- sleeved, white and dimpled, as
she regarded him.

They had passed the Snows' house, and Dosia looked eagerly for some sign of life there; she hesitated,
and then went on." There are things a man will do for a woman, when he won' t a man, because then he has to
be businesslike; but he doesn' t have to be businesslike to a woman-- he can lend to her just because
she said to, only to be comforted by his touch, had been a sign and a
symbol to him of some dearer trust and faith for needs it."

Nothing and less than nothing." Miss Bertha!" Your end is ahead." Miss Bertha' s face, her whispering
lips, her hands, were trembling with excitement. All that had gone before with other men suddenly
became as nothing, forgotten and out of mind, and she herself made clean by this purifying fire. Dear
mother has gone said to myself." Oh!" said Dosia blankly, trying
to take in the importance of the fact."

No, there was no written agreement," assented Justin;" there was nothing to bind you." No? Will he be in
later?" Dosia felt that other women must have loved him-- how could they have
helped it?" Yes, I know.

She did not know what she had meant to say to him, but it had seemed
as if she must see him!

He' s stood alone long enough-- long enough! Only, when they were at last in the train, she threw back
her veil and smiled at Dosia, with a clear, triumphant relief in
the smile, a sweetness, a lightness of expression pleasant that was
almost roguish, and that communicated a similar lightness of heart
to Dosia.

She took the pistol from his relaxed hold," said Miss Bertha, as blankly, but
Dosia had already gone on.

She had a pang of sorrow for them-- for herself it made no difference.
You must pardon me for not thanking you before."

The word seemed to contain some beautiful comfort and uplifting. He' ll sell it sometime, of course,
but I don' t know how complicating the delay is. The Dosia who must; her lips
refused to speak. Dosia tried to picture Eugene Larue as Lois must see
him; his bearded lips, his worn forehead, his quiet, sad, piercing
eyes, were not attractive to her.

Then I' d go crazy!

He would
have to get well quickly, so as to begin to hustle for a small clerkship
somewhere, to get bread Lois and the going under the electric lights.



A mightily rich man was Hóhér Aladár, and Ilona was noted for being the most thrifty housewife
in a country where most housewives are thrifty, and for being a model cook in a land where
good cooks abound.

Her house was a pattern of orderliness and cleanliness: always immaculately whitewashed outside
and the little shutters painted a vivid green, it literally shone with dazzling brightness
on these hot summer afternoons. The woodwork of the verandah was elaborately carved, the pots
that hung from the roof had not a chip or crack in them.

No wonder that Erös Béla was proud of these housewifely qualities in his only sister, and that
he loved to make a display of them before his fiancée whose own mother was so sadly lacking
in them.

Now he pushed open the front door and stood aside to allow Elsa to enter, and as she did so
the sweet scent of rosemary and lavender greeted her nostrils; she looked round her with unfeigned
appreciation, and a little sigh--hardly of envy but wholly wistful--escaped her lips. The room
was small and raftered and low, but little light came through the two small windows, built
one on each side of the front door, but even in the dim light the furniture shone with polish,
and the wooden floor bore every sign of persistent and vigorous scrubbing. There was a cloth
of coloured linen upon the centre table, beautifully woven in a chess-board pattern of red
and blue by Ilona's deft hands. The pewter and copper cooking utensils on and about the huge
earthenware stove were resplendently bright, and the carved oak dower-chest--with open lid--displayed
a dazzling wealth of snow-white linen--hand-woven and hand-embroidered--towels, sheets, pillow-cases,
all lying in beautiful bundles, neatly tied with red ribbons and bows.

Again Elsa sighed--in that quaint, wistful little way of hers. If her mother had been as thrifty
and as orderly as Ilona, then mayhap her own marriage with Erös Béla need never have come about.
She could have mourned for Andor quietly by herself, and the necessity of a wealthy son-in-law
would probably never have presented itself before her mother's mind. 

[ Sidenote: Retention of Body Wastes] The injury which comes from
the retention of the body' s waste products is of the greatest importance.

Thorough mastication means masticating up to the point of involuntary swallowing. On the other hand,
many have mistaken ideas as to their own idiosyncrasies. It merely means
giving up the habit of forcing food down, and applies to all foods,
even to liquid foods, which should be sipped.[ Sidenote: Mineral Oils]
Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal lubricant to assist
the food to slip through the intestinal tube at the proper rate of
progress, provided the oil is first freed, by long- continued shaking
be well if all of us would adopt a similar rule for ourselves.

Many persons who have suffered for years from the above- named symptoms have been relieved of them
after a few weeks of correct posture, sometimes reenforced by the
artificial pressure of an abdominal supporter and by special exercises
to strengthen the abdominal muscles.[ Sidenote: The First Three Mouthfuls]
At first one must give some conscious attention to his efforts to
reform; but if one will merely attend carefully to the first three
mouthfuls of a meal, the slow pace can often be established for the
rest of the meal without further thought.

Latterly Mr. Horace Fletcher set such a rule for himself, and revived
the interest of the public in the subject.[ Sidenote: Careful Tasting]
Slow eating is important not merely as a matter of mastication, but
also as a matter of taste and enjoyment.

To free ourselves of it we must first of all allow plenty of time
for our meals and rid our minds of the thought of hurry. There are
few health measures more simple and effective than restoring the normal
sensitiveness of this important impulse. Peanuts very slightly roasted
and very thoroughly masticated seldom disagree with one. In general, it is
extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not relished.[ Sidenote: Choosing
Foods] Finally, slow eating is a hence indigestion); the overseasoning of
food to make it relishable even when bolted( and hence overeating and irritation
of the mucous lining); the excessive use of meat no objection to drinking
a moderate amount of great aid in the proper choice of foods. Experiments
by Pavlov and others have shown that the taste and enjoyment of food
stimulate the flow of digestive juices. Some suggestions have already
been given as to the wise choice of foods, but no rules can be formulated
which will completely insure such a knowledge of food values, while,
to the layman, the problem is so complicated that his main reliance
must be on his own instincts.

Before leaving the subject of intestinal poisoning, choice.[ Sidenote:
The Digestibility of So- called"

Indigestible" Animals depend exclusively
on instinct except when under domestication.

Civilized life makes it inconvenient to follow this instinct as promptly as, for
instance, a horse does. In an habitual slouching posture, the blood of
the abdomen tends to stagnate in the liver and the splanchnic circulation,
causing a feeling of despondency and mental confusion, headache, coldness
of the hands and feet, and chronic fatigue or neurasthenia, and often
constipation.

Foods] In the choice of foods it is as difficult to distinguish absolutely between what are" good" and"
bad" foods as it is to classify human beings into" good" and" bad."[ Sidenote: Standing and Walking]
In walking, the most common error is to slump, with the shoulders rounded, the stomach thrust
out, the head thrust forward, chin up, and the arms hanging in front
of the body.

Among the best foods for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts( if well masticated), milk,
sour milk, and vegetables.

A rectal examination often reveals unsuspected fecal residues.

Many think peanuts indigestible, not realizing either the importance of mastication or the importance of
avoiding over- roasting. The best way to help the ordinary man choose his foods is to advise
him to use as much as possible of the" better" and as little as possible
of the" worse" without attempting to draw a hard and fast line between
the" good" and" bad."

Foods which are especially laxative are prunes, figs, most fruits
except bananas, fruit juices, all fresh vegetables, especially greens
of all sorts, wheat, bran, and the whole grain cereals.

One reason why sugar has a high food value
is that it is readily utilized for combustion, and if taken between
meals greatly increases the calories and may lead to overnourishment.[
Sidenote: Sugar and Candy] A great cause of ill health is overuse
of sugar in concentrated form, candy, etc., especially by the sedentary.[
Sidenote: Laxative Foods] The best regulators of the bowels are foods.

Even the wisest physiologist can not depend altogether on his we may here again
mention the importance of avoiding the poisoning which comes from
too much protein.[ Sidenote: Bran and Agar- Agar] The use of wheat-
bran in cereals, in bread, and even in vegetables is a preventive
of constipation, as is also the use of agar- agar, a Japanese seaweed
product.

Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account.

Lactic acid, the acid of sour milk, constitutes a medium in which putrefactive
germs do not thrive.

It does
not mean forcibly holding the food in the mouth, counting the chews,
or otherwise making a bore of eating. For instance, many people think
that nuts never agree with them, when the trouble really is that
they do not masticate them properly.

But a fastidious study of foods will find some faults as well as some virtues in almost any food. Laxative
drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually.

While it is
true that, in many cases, sacrifices have to be made, the net result
of reforming one' s diet is not to diminish but to increase the enjoyment
of food.[ Sidenote: Avoidance of Fads] Each individual must use his
own intelligence and common sense, avoiding so far as he can the mistake
of following a" fad" and accepting a theory without sufficient evidence;
and the opposite mistake of accepting as hygienic the customs about
him simply because they are customs, and thus mistaking for fads any
conclusions of science which are discordant with current custom.

The banana vender usually finds that the ignorant public buys his
fruit best when its color is an even yellow, and he puts aside for
himself the only bananas ripe and fit to eat, namely those which are
mottled with black.

Others believe that bananas never agree with them, when the fact
is they eat them too green. Section  II-- Posture One of the simplest and
most effective methods of avoiding self- poisoning is by maintaining
an erect posture. Slow, deep breathing, through the nose, while lying
on the back, with a weight on the abdomen, such as a bag of sand--
2 to 4 lbs.-- is beneficial.

CHAPTER  III POISONS Section  I-- Constipation If the human body be likened to a steam- engine,
its wastes correspond to the ashes. The correction of this habit will go
far toward reforming an individual' s diet in every way. The intestinal
contents become dangerous by being too long retained, as putrefying
fecal matter contains poisons which are harmful to the body.[ Sidenote:
Breathing and Posture] Breathing exercises are also very useful for
correcting the chronic evils of bad posture.

Foods which have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled milk, fine
wheat- flour in bread, corn- starch, white of egg.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling matter.[
Sidenote: Evidences of Injury] The odor and character of the stools
are indicative of the extent to which our diet is injuring us.

This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a water- carrier and
a sweep to the intestinal tract. Excess of water should be avoided
by the very feeble or those suffering from heart trouble or dropsy.

Free water- drinking at meals may prove constipating.[ Sidenote: Water
with Meals] There is,, for normal people, oils unless properly prescribed
by a physician.[ Sidenote: Salt, Pepper, Spices] Salt, pepper, and hot
condiments should be used very sparingly, if at all.

Oils and fats are also laxative but can not be used in sufficiently
large quantities to produce very laxative effects without producing
loss of appetite.

Constipation is extremely prevalent, partly because our diet usually
lacks bulk or other needed constituents, but partly also because
we fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly, and often.

At present there is much unknown, especially as to how far our rules
have to be modified for the particular individual.[ Sidenote: Water-
Drinking] Free water- drinking when the stomach is empty, especially
before breakfast, is beneficial in constipation.

It should be taken without admixture with laxative drugs.[ Sidenote: Evils of Insufficient Mastication]
The consequences and evils of insufficient mastication are many,
and may be enumerated as follows: Insufficient use of the teeth and
jaws( and hence dental decay as well as other and worse dental evils);
insufficient saliva mixed with the food( and hence imperfect digestion
of the starchy substances); insufficient subdivision of food by mastication(
and hence slow digestion); the failure of the taste nerves to telegraph
ahead, as of it were, to the stomach and other digestive organs an
intimation of the kind and amount of digestive juices required( and
water at meals-- say one or two glassfuls-- provided it is not taken
when food is in the mouth and used for washing it down.

Underweight people should not use these and eggs and like foods,
which can be eaten rapidly with relative impunity, and the corresponding
neglect of other foods, like bread, grains, vegetables, and salads,
which require more mastication( and hence intestinal poisoning).

Many refined preparations are on the market for use in constipation.
Foods should possess sufficient bulk to promote the action of the
intestines and should contain a due amount of laxative elements.[
Sidenote: Avoiding Drugs] It is advisable, in general, to avoid cathartics
except under medical supervision, Prolonged Relish of Food] The habit
of insufficient mastication is subtle, because it has become" second
nature" with most since certain drugs are often very harmful when
their use is long continued and the longer they are used the more
dependent on them the user becomes.

The ordinary peanuts are over- roasted.

It may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water enemas
at night, following evacuation by paraffin oil injection, may be
needed.[ Sidenote: Massage of the Colon] Massage of the abdomen!,
deep and thorough, with a creeping movement of the ends of the fingers
on the left side of the abdomen from above downward, also promotes
the process of defecation.

They prevent the individual from exercising abdominal pressure so
essential for this function.[ Sidenote: Low Seated Water Closets] High-
seated water closets, so often found in institutions, hotels and
private houses, often favor constipation, as they do not permit of
the proper physiological attitude in defecation.

The normal man and woman should find no difficulty in having complete
movements regularly two or three times a day by merely living a reasonable
life, being careful especially to avoid overfatigue, to include sufficient
bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including, in particular,
breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.

Such seats should be made much lower than they are, or the feet should
rest on a foot stool, in order to attain the proper attitude for thorough
emptying of the intestine.

Hence, if sufficient sour- milk germs can be kept in the intestines
to constantly manufacture lactic acid, putrefaction will be reduced.

Few of the human family have such ideal movements. This poisoning is
probably due largely to the decomposition of protein in the colon.
Many believe they have free movements when actually they are suffering
from a sluggishness in the rectum and other parts of the lower intestine.

Among the worst foods are putrefactive cheeses, sweetbreads, liver, kidneys,"
high" game or poultry. The free use of milk and of milk sugar, a little raw
starch, or partially cooked oat such as Scotch brose( oatmeal cooked
only ten minutes) will feed the germs.

Civilized man should not and can not altogether depend upon instinct, but
his food instincts are far more keen and correct if he obeys the
rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food.

The impulse to go to stool, if neglected even five minutes, may disappear.[
Sidenote: Increased Enjoyment] There is a mistaken notion that the hygiene
of food means" giving up all the things that taste good."[ Sidenote:
Enemas] The occasional, but not habitual, use of an enema( with warm
water followed always by a second enema of cool water, to prevent
relaxation) is a temporary expedient.

It would be an excellent rule to visit the closet immediately after
the noon and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do after the morning
meal, until the reflex is trained to act at those, the most natural,
times for its action.

Foods] The science of dietetics will develop rapidly in the future,
and in a few years it will probably be possible to be more definite
than we have been here. Millions are conscious of some shortcoming
in this regard, and doubtless millions more suffer from some shortcomings
of which they are not conscious.[ Sidenote: Use of Sour Milk] One
proposed method reducing this decomposition of protein is through
the use of sour milk.

Sometimes"

What is one man' s meat is another man' s poison."[ Sidenote: Number of
Defecations] Observations on the manlike apes show that they defecate
three or four times a day. But, as Professor Rettger and others have shown,
the mere swallowing of a little sour milk or of sour- milk tablets
is seldom sufficient. In this way the boy soon learns that there is nothing
to be gained by fast eating, and, in fact, that the pleasantest way
of spending the meal- time is to prolong the relish of the food.

To keep them alive and enable to multiply, we must feed them.[ Sidenote:
Establishing Proper Habits] The natural instinct to defecate, like
many other natural instincts, is usually deadened by failure to exercise
it.

It represents a constant and cumulative tax which often ends in very
serious consequences.[ Sidenote: The" Consumptive Stoop"] There is
some reason to believe that" the consumptive stoop" leads to tuberculosis
partly through the lowering of resistance resulting from the poisoning
produced by a chronically relaxed abdomen.[ Sidenote: Necessity of
Medical Examination] It is a good idea to consult a physician in regard
to one' s diet, and endeavor intelligently to follow his advice and
not insist on one' s own diet, selected from the standpoint of mere
self- indulgence or custom.

In an erect posture the abdominal muscles tend to remain taut and to afford
proper support or pressure to the abdomen, including the great splanchnic
circulation of large blood- vessels.[ Sidenote:" Good" and" Bad" A
slouching attitude is often the result of disease or lack of vitality;
but it is also a cause. The odor is less offensive if the diet is
low in protein and thoroughly masticated.

Mr. Gladstone did something of the sort and was noted for the slow
mastication of his food.

Lying face downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses the blood
out of the congested splanchnic circulation.

Abnormal conditions of the intestines are largely responsible for
the common headache malady, and for a generally lowered resistance,
resulting in colds and even more serious ailments.

Exercises taken when lying on the back, by raising the legs or head,
strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Moreover, since many, without being aware of the fact, are affected
with Bright' s disease, diabetes, etc., in their early stages, in
which dietetic precautions are especially necessary, with water, from
certain dangerous impurities.[ Sidenote: of us.

Food must have a pleasing taste and flavor and then must be enjoyed
in order to be most readily assimilated.

A boy' s school in which the principal is endeavoring to fight the habit of
food- bolting has wisely ordained that no boy may leave the dining- room until
a certain hour, even if he has finished eating long before. The" good
germs" swallowed die of starvation before they do much good. It would
it is well, even for those who are apparently in good health, to be medically
examined as a preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet along
the best lines.

All we say is that some foods are better than others, remembering that it is usually more important to be satisfied,
even if the foods are not" ideal," than to be unsatisfied with what
in the abstract seem" ideal" foods.

 And then he would find himself the richest man in the Commune," she
added, not without a point of malice, "richer even than you, my good Béla."

"Hold your tongue, you old fool!" broke in Béla savagely, as once more the sinister leer which
hovered round his sightless eye was turned toward Elsa.

"Didn't I say that I, for one, never believed that rubbish?" retorted Irma sullenly; "and haven't
I preached to her about it these past two years? But you needn't be afraid," she added, as
she turned once more to her stewing-pot, "she didn't hear what I said. When she talks or sings
to her father you might shoot off a cannon--she wouldn't hear it. You may say what you like
just now, Béla, she'll not listen."

"Oho!" said Béla, even as a curious expression of obstinacy, not unmixed with cruelty, crept
into his colourless face, "you seem to forget, Irma néni, that the rest of Elsa's life will
have to be spent in listening to me. We'll soon see about that."

"Elsa!" he called peremptorily.

Then, as indeed the girl appeared not to hear, but went on softly crooning and singing to the
helpless invalid like a mother to its babe, the young man worked himself up into a passion
of fury. The veins in his pale forehead and temples swelled up visibly, the glitter in his
one eye became more cruel and more menacing, finally he brought his clenched fist once more
crashing down upon the table, even while he rose to his feet, as if to give fuller meaning
to his future marital authority. 

The stipulation in question is the last in the treaty with Vlad( V.?),
1460.

The' Capitulation' of Bogdan of Moldavia to Selim I., 1513, was in
some respects more favourable to the vassal State. Amongst other stipulations,
it provided for the residence in Constantinople of a Moldavian envoy,
and permitted a to the national liberties. of with The following
are some of its leading provisions.

The country property of is divided into districts, the districts into arrondissements,
the arrondissements into communes.[ 202 It grants( Article 5) freedom of
conscience, of instruction, of the press, and of public meeting. Abolishes(
10 and 12)[ 203] distinctions and privileges of class and foreign
titles, such as. The Constitution of Roumania and contains one and
thirty- and forty Christian church to be erected there.

The annual tribute was, however, raised and consisted of 11,000 piastres,
forty falcons, or insurrection fresh stipulations, including a constantly
increasing tribute, were added.

APPENDIX III.

THE ROUMANIAN CONSTITUTION framed with great regard to justice and mares in foal,' all by
way of present.' In both countries, after each war three articles, and is Prince, Count, Baron,&
c., as being contrary to ancient institutions.[ 204] Capital punishment
is abolished except under martial law in time of war( 18). The the peasantry
and the indemnity to landowners are inviolable( 20). The Greek Catholic
religion is made the State Church, but all other sects are allowed freedom
of worship( 21).


Elsa had never heard of Icarus, but she had felt herself soaring upwards on heavenly wings
when Andor--his lips touching her neck--had whispered with passionate ardour: "Elsa, I love you!"

She had never heard of Icarus' fall, but she had experienced her own from the giddy heights
of heavenly happiness, down to the depths of dull, aching despair. The fall had been very gradual--there
had been nothing grand or heroic or soul-stirring about it: Andor had gone away, having told
her that he loved her, and adjured her to wait for him. She had waited for three years, patiently,
quietly, obstinately, despite the many and varied sieges laid to her heart and her imagination
by the inflammable, eligible youth of the countryside. And in a minute or two he was able to declare
that the injury had been done to the lady' s ankle, the lady herself having assisted him to this conclusion
by coming to her senses, groaning, and putting her hand down to the
suffering joint.

The conductor frowned."

What is the lady' s name and address, please, ma' am?" he asked of Mrs. Tarbell." I have to make
a report of the accident.""

You' ll find it out soon enough," said a thin man with a fresh complexion, very silvery hair, and
spectacles." The company will not have to wait long for the information." He looked about,--"
Stiles; and she lives-- dear me!-- on Pulaski Street. Can I do anything for you, doctor?"" You might
send your boy for a carriage," said the doctor, who was engaged in
removing Mrs. Stiles' s shoe."

Nothing else, thank you, unless you happen to have some lead- water
about you."

He gave a professional smile, and Mrs. Stiles groaned dismally.

Mrs. Tarbell despatched John for the carriage, and then, turning,
and blushing in a way that was rather out of keeping with her tone
of voice, she said," Now, I should be obliged if you gentlemen who
saw the accident would furnish me with your names and addresses."

On hearing this the crowd began to diminish rapidly; but the man with
the red moustache set a good example by giving his name loudly and
promptly as" Oscar B. Mecutchen, tobacconist, d' reckly opposite the
City Hall."

So three or four other men allowed Mrs. Tarbell to set them down
as observers of the disaster.

The gentleman in spectacles was named Stethson, another man, a tall,
fat- cheeked countryman, Vickers, and a dried up little party, in
a Grand- Army- of- the- Republic suit, Parthenheimer. Mrs. Tarbell
had the names down pat, and scrutinized each prospective witness
carefully, as if warning him that it would be no use young for him
to give a fictitious name in the hope of evading his duties, as she
would now be able to pick him out of a regiment."

I am very much obliged to you," she said, in a stately manner." Now,
you all agree that the accident was the result of the negligence of
the driver of the car?"" Why, yes, certainly," they all agreed at once."
Leastways--" said Mecutchen."

That is--" said Parthenheimer." How was it, anyway?" asked Stethson."
Thought you saw it," cried the others, turning on him instantly."

So I did," said Stethson;" but I thought I' d like to hear what you gentlemen' s impression was."" Well,"
said Mecutchen and Vickers, the tall man, together, tipping back
their hats with a simultaneous and precisely similar movement on the
part of each,-- nothing is more indicative of the careful independence
of the average American than the way in which he always keeps his
head covered in the presence of his lawyer,--"

Well," said Vickers and Mecutchen. Mr. Mecutchen bowed Mr. Vickers, and Mr. Vickers bowed to Mr. Mecutchen,
with a sort of grotesque self- effacement. Mr. Vickers waved his
hand, and Mr. Mecutchen proceeded." Why," said he," the lady stopped
the car in the middle the block,-- just like a woman,-- got on the
platform, car started with a jerk, and she fell off."

Vickers and Parthenheimer nodded assent, but Stethson said that his
view of it was that the car started off again while she was trying
to get on."

That makes it stronger," said Mecutchen." Well, of course," said Stethson,
settling his spectacles farther back on his nose; and Vickers murmured
that you couldn' t have it too strong, as he knew from the point of
view( as he said) of cows."

It' s wonderful what you can get for cows," he added pensively."

Ag' in' a railroad company On the day of which I write we spent the
early morning on the, in Bavaria, the loveliest sheet of water in
Germany, vying in grandeur with any Swiss or Italian lake.

Its color is that of the pheasant' s breast," said the grizzled old
Parthenheimer," the stronger the better, because some cases, no matter
how aggerawated they are, you only git a specific sum and no damages.

But a railroad case, which is a damage case right through, the worse
they are the more you git.

I had a little niece to be killed by a freight- train, and they took
off that pore little girl' s head, and her right arm, and her left
leg, all three, like it was by a mowing- machine,-- so clean cut,
you know.

Well, sir, they got a werdick for six thousand dollars, my brother
and his wife did; and their lawyer stood to it that the mangling
brought in three thousand; I think he was right about it, too.""

Six thousand!" said Vickers, with immense appreciation." The court
set it aside for being excessive," said Parthenheimer," and aft' werds
they compromised for less. But there it was. And the way it was done was odd,
too. Right arm and left leg."" Ah," said Vickers," living right on
a railroad, the way I do, you see some queerer accidents than that.
Now, I remember--"

But Mrs. Tarbell found this conversation growing quite too ghastly to be listened to with composure,
so she turned abruptly toward the sofa.

The doctor was now bathing and examining Mrs. Stiles' s ankle, and Mrs. Stiles
looked not merely the picture but the dramatic materialization of misery."
How do you feel now, Mrs. Stiles?

How do you think she is, doctor?" These two questions were put in Mrs. Tarbell' s sweetest
tones.

Mrs. Stiles lay for a moment without answering, but the doctor replied
that he was afraid it was a nasty business."

There is a dislocation, and there may be nothing more, except a sprain," he said." But it will
be impossible to tell until the swelling is reduced; and if there is a fracture of the fibula, why,
such a complication is apt to be serious."

Mrs. Stiles groaned feebly, and then looked up at Mrs. Tarbell with
gratitude." I never thought to be so much trouble to you," she murmured."
Do not think of that for a moment," said Mrs. Tarbell."

If I only had my cologne- bottle," she said, half aloud, in an apologetic voice. This was
one of the luxuries she had refused herself in her professional toilet; more than this, she did not
allow herself to carry a smelling- bottle, though Mr. Juddson had told her it could be used with great
effect to disconcert an opposing counsel." I am afraid you are suffering very much," she went on."
Yes, ma' am," said Mrs. Stiles sadly." If I hadn' t only been such a fool as to try to get on
that there car while it was a- going."

Mrs. Tarbell started. The doctor rose and laughed."

You don' t mean that," said he." Mean what, doctor?"" That you tried
to get on while the car was going.

All these gentlemen here say the car started while you were trying,
to get on, which is a very different thing, you know."

The doctor had evidently kept his ears open while attending to the sufferer. Mrs. Tarbell, rather
red I in the face, kept silent, not knowing exactly what she ought
to do."

I don' t know," said Mrs. Stiles feebly." I don' t s' pose I remember much.""
Of course you don' t," said the doctor cheerfully."

Bless you, you' ll sue the company and have a famous verdict; I wouldn' t take ten thousand dollars
for your chances if I had them.

You observe," he went on confidentially to Mrs. Tarbell," I am doing
my best for the community of interests which, ought to exist among
the learned professions.

I raise this poor woman' s spirits by suggesting to her dreams of
enormous damages, and at the same time I promote litigation, to the
great advantage of her lawyer.

I think that is the true scientific spirit."" I-- I--" began Mrs. Tarbell,
in some confusion." Beg pardon?" said the doctor."

Well, I must be off. I' ve done all I can for the poor woman. She ought to send for her own
doctor as soon as she gets home. I suppose-- will you--?" He looked at Mrs. Tarbell doubtfully, as
if wondering whether he ought to take it for granted that she was
in charge of the case."

I will tell her," said Mrs. Tarbell remunerative." I could tell her myself," said the doctor."
To be sure.

Well, if I could only inform her lawyer what I' ve done for him, he might induce my fair patient to
employ me permanently?."

He smiled at his joke, shook his head waggishly, and turned to look for his hat. As Mrs. Tarbell looked after
him in some perplexity, John, the office- boy, came back to report
that the carriage was engaged and at the door; and Mrs. Stiles was presently
carried down- stairs again, it being quite impossible for her even
to limp.

But before she was lifted up she turned her head and beckoned to
Mrs. Tarbell."

Could I," she said,--" could I have a case against the railway company?""

Ye- es,-- I suppose so," Mrs. Tarbell answered." Did they say it was
the fault of the conductor that I fell off that car?""

Of the driver,-- yes.""

Well, then, ma' am, would you advise me to bring a case against them""

You had better decide for yourself," said Mrs. Tarbell faintly.

But then, remembering that it was her duty to advise, she added,"
Yes, I think you ought to sue.""

Then you' ll take the case, Mrs. Tarbell, won' t you, please?" said Mrs. Stiles, closing her eyes again,
as if satisfied of the future. Mrs. Tarbell! There was a general movement of surprise as the lady
lawyer' s name was pronounced, and the doctor was so much taken aback
that heh burst out laughing."

I' m sure I beg your pardon, talking to!" grumbled Mecutchen disgustedly.

A quarter of an hour later, when Mr. Juddson returned to his office,
Mrs. Tarbell was engaged in drawing up a paper which ran as follows:
ANNETTE GORSLEY STILES} Court of Common vs.} Pleas.

THE BLANK AND DASH} May Term, 1883. AVENUES PASSENGER} No.---- RAILWAY CO.} To the Prothonotary
of the said Court: Issue summons in case returnable the first Monday to
the right, a change to which the Kutscher readily accommodated himself.
One is kept geographically informed in that region by this difference in
manners on the high- road in Austria and Bavaria.

We argued a little about the fittingness of women working in the fields.
Cecilia thought it in May, 1883. TARBELL, pro plff. It was a precipe for a
writ." Alexander!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in an expressive voice, regardless
of the office- boy."

Yes?" said Mr. Juddson.

The referee had refused to admit some of his testimony." Alexander, I have a client," said Mrs. Tarbell."
Do you tell me so?" replied Mr. Juddson absently, as he redisarranged
the papers upon his table."

I just as well for you to have me with you, and let me-- hum-- well, let
me take the jury."" Alexander! do you think I am afraid of Mr. Pope?""

N- no; but Pope is a blackguard, and very shady, and, it might be
unpleasant for you; and I' d do that hope-- Bless me, where is that--?

Mrs. Tarbell, have you seen anything of an envelope?-- John, what became
of the papers in Muggins and Bylow? I gave them to you." Mrs. Tarbell,
deeply mortified, resumed her occupation, and completed the precipe
by writing the words," Tarbell, pro plff."

Mr. Juddson' s papers were found for him, under his nose, and he was
beginning to say that he was going out to lunch, when the enormity
of his conduct made itself apparent to him."

By George!" he said, stopping short," you told me you had a client at last,
eh, Mrs. Tarbell?"" Yes," said Mrs. Tarbell coldly." Why,-- bless
my soul! It' s your first client, is it not? And what kind of a case
has your ewe- lamb brought you?

Come, tell me about it. I did not properly appreciate the communication."

And he
went over to Mrs. Tarbell' s desk, upon which he sat himself down
in a position which Mrs. Tarbell had formerly considered very undignified;
but now she could not help feeling that it was really a legal attitude.

She looked up with a smile, and then, though with a little shame,
displayed the precipe."

Well, that' s good," said Mr. Juddson." Accident case, I suppose. What
is it?

Death, and damages for the widow?-- for I see there are no children,--
or was the plaintiff herself the victim of the accident?

Your sex has finally decided to stand by you, it seems.""

I shan'
t send out the writ just yet," said Mrs. Tarbell, blushing."

I was-- wanted to always see how the precipe would look.

I must
see the plaintiff again, I think, before I advise her definitely to sue."" Hasn' t she a case?"" Yes--
but--"" What nonsense!" cried Juddson."

Come, my dear, don' t be a goose, and don' t lose a return- day. Otherwise,
I shall buy you a sewing- machine."" Aren' t you pleased, Alexander?"
said Mrs. Tarbell, with a little effusion."

My dear, I' m delighted. I hope that in five years' time you will
be supporting me and my family.

Your sister- in- law will be speechless with jealousy. I congratulate
you.

Hum-- The Blank and Dash Avenues Company?

Well, you won' t have to send the clouds and their snows are perpetual.

Stalwart, bronzed peasant girls, in the short skirts of the Bavarian
costume, rowed us about.

A few years ago, in answer John very far with your copies of the
pleadings.

Pope was appointed attorney for the company last week, in place of old Slyther, who resigned,--
you know."" Pope?" said Mrs. Tarbell."

Yes,-- the Honorable Franklin."" Goodness!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in a tone of inexpressible disgust."
By jingo; you are not fond of him, are you?

Hem!

Well, as a general rule, I should advise you to put personal feelings
entirely out of the question; but, as this is your first case, perhaps
it would be, if I were you."

Mrs. Tarbell' s spirits rose."

I will do nothing of the sort, Alexander," she said;" though it is
very kind of you to suggest it; and I will-- I will bet you,"-- determinedly,--
I will bet you a of the new edition of Baxter' s Digest that I beat
him."

THOMAS WHARTON. A CARCANET. I give thee, love, a carcanet With all
the rainbow splendor set, Of diamonds that drink the sun.

Of emeralds that feed upon His light as doth the evergreen, A memory
of spring between This frost of whiter pearls than snow, And warmth
of violets below A wreath of opalescent mist, Where blooms the tender
amethyst.

Here, too,
the captives of the mine-- The sapphire and the ruby-- shine, Rekindling
each a hidden spark, Unquenched by buried ages dark, Nor dimmed beneath
the jewelled skies, Save by the sunlight of thine eyes.

JOHN B. TABB. IN A SALT- MINE. There were five of us. The little New- Yorker, plump, blonde, and
pretty, I call Cecilia: that is not her name, but if she suggested any saint it was the patron
saint of music. Her soul was full of it, and it ran off the ends
of her fingers in the most enchanting manner.

Elise, half French, as you would see at a glance, was from the Golden
Gate,-- as dainty and pretty a bit of femininity as ever wore remunerative
French gowns with the inimitable American air.

Elise could smile her way straight through the world. All barriers gave way before her dimples,
and with her on board ship we never feared icebergs at sea, feeling confident
they would melt away before her glance.

Thirdly, there was myself, and then I come to the masculine two- fifths
of our party. First, the curate.

He was young in years and in his knowledge of the great world.

His parish had sent him to the Continent with us to regain his somewhat broken health. He
sometimes spoke of himself as a shepherd, he liked to talk of the Church as
his bride: he always blushed when he looked straight at Elise.

Cecilia liked him because his clerical coat gave tone to the party, and his dignity was sufficient
for us all, thus saving us the trouble of assuming any. Lastly, there
was Samayana, which was not his name either, from Bombay,-- a real,
live East- Indian nabob.

In his own country he travelled with three tents, a dozen servants,
as many horses, and always carried his laundress with him.

Yet he never seemed lonely with us,-- which we thought very agreeable
in him.

Crawford had just created Mr. Isaacs, and we fancied there was a resemblance,-- barring the wives,--
and he told us such graphic stories of life in India that we were not always
sure in just which quarter of the globe we were touring.

Both Samayana and the curate were picturesque-- for men.

Two beings more opposed never came together, yet they liked each other thoroughly. Samayana was greatly
admired in European society for his color, his gift as a raconteur,
and the curious rings he wore.

He was very dusky, and Cecilia, being very blonde, valued him as
a most effective foil and adjunct.

We were seeing Germany in the most leisurely fashion, courting the
unexpected and letting things happen to us., and the green mountain-
sides, almost perpendicular in places, rise till their peaks are in
to a petition, King Louis I. promised them that never in his reign
should steam supplant them.

They laughed happily and looked proudly at their muscle when we hinted
at their being tired.

We landed at different points and strolled into wooded valleys, visited artificial hermitages,
stopped for a bite at a restaurant connected with a hunting Mrs.
Tarbell," he cried."

I had no idea in the world--"" Ah," said Stethson," I looked at the
sign on the door coming in.

I knew it was the lady lawyer. My, if my wife could see you, Mrs.
Tarbell!""

And I never knew who I was- château, and listened lazily to Elise' s telling of the legends of the region,
accompanied by the music of some little waterfall coming from the
snow above and gleefully leaping into the lake.

We crossed the rocky, wild pasture- land lying between the Königsee and the Obersee, that tiny lake
that faithfully gives back as a mirror all the crags, peaks, and
snowy heights which hide it away there as if it were indeed the precious
opal you may fancy it to be when viewed from above.

We drifted back to the little inn, where we were approached by a
respectful Kutscher, who asked if we would not like to one go down
into a salt- mine.

Whatever we did, it was with one accord, and the answer came in chorus,"
Ja, gewiss!"

Elise glanced down at her dainty toilet, a look instantly interpreted
by the Kutscher, who explained that costumes for the descent were
furnished, that the exploration was not fatiguing, and that the carriages
were ready.

It was all done in an"

Augenblick," the bill was paid, the Trinkgeld was scattered, and we were rattling away through as beautiful
a region as you will find, even in Switzerland. The snow- peaks were dazzlingly white in the sunshine;
in the ravines and defiles the darkness lingers from night to night;
singing, leaping Alpine streams came like molten silver from the glaciers
over the rocky ledges and through the hanging forests, and a swift
river ran through this happy, fertile valley of peace and plenty in
which our roadway wound.

The peasants looked content and well- to- do, and were picturesquely
clothed.

We stopped an old man and bargained for the quaint, antique silver buttons on his coat, and paid him twice
its weight in silver money for the big silver buckle at his belt.

We were stopped at the frontier, and accommodatingly rose while the custom- officers politely looked
under the carriage- seats. The wine we had just drunk was not taxable, while that we were about
to drink was: so we presented our remaining bottles to the officers
to save them the trouble of making change.

Up to that time we had turned our horses to the right: once over
the Austrian line, custom demanded we should turn preferable to washing
dishes, and one of us, who believes herself not born to sew, maintained
that to rake hay was more agreeable than sitting at sewing- machines
or making shirts at twenty cents apiece after the manner of New- York
workwomen.

But once indignation and excitement took possession of us all as
we caught sight of a bare- footed, slight young girl toiling up a
ladder and carrying mortar along a scaffold to men laying bricks on
the second story of a new building.

The girl had a complexion like a rose- leaf, her uncovered hair gleamed like gold in the sunshine,
her head was exquisitely set on her shoulders. The curate sighed deeply, Samayana uttered a strong
word in Hindoostanee, and there was a feminine cry of" Shameful!" when the girl, putting down
her load, folded her white arms, whose sinew and muscle an athlete might have envied, and, with teeth
and smile as faultless as our Elise' s, threw us down a" Gruss Gott!" If there
ever beamed content and happiness from human face we saw it in that
of this peasant beauty who had no conception of our commiseration.

We gave her back a" God greet thee!""

All the same," said Cecilia indignantly," women should not carry
mortar."

We had noticed that Cecilia' s indignation on account of the workingwoman
of Germany was extreme if with a cheerful smile, and the conductor
glared at him contemptuously."

She never tried to get on while you were going," continued the thin
man." It was your driver; that' s what it was."" The lady' s name is Stiles,
conductor," said Mrs. Tarbell the woman was pretty.

We came at last to the mouth of the mine, from which issued a narrow
railway for the transportation of the salt- ore, and above, zigzag on the mountain-
side, ran the conduit carrying the salt, still in liquid form, to the
boiling- house. A waterfall four hundred feet high furnished power for
the great pump. About the entrance to the mine clustered a number of buildings.
Many carriages were already there, for it was the height of the tourists'
season, and this was the show- mine of the Salzkammergut.

Some military officers were standing about, a dozen or more natives lounged on the piazzas,
and nearly every carriage contained one or more occupants, evidently
waiting for travelling- companions then in the mine.

There was the fat woman who couldn' t think of such an exploration, the
nervous woman who hated dark places and never went underground, a
few invalids and some chattering girls and young men who had previously
been through the mine and had come over from Salzburg for the drive,
and some very fine youths and young women who wouldn' t be seen in
a miner' s costume.

There were
a score or more of these travellers, and as many more coachmen, and
miners off duty, hanging about. A building on the opposite side of the road
was indicated to us ladies as the place in which we were to change
our costumes.

Now, here was a pleasant gauntlet to run in male attire! However, a hundred
strangers were not to deter us, and, possibly, this costume might
be becoming.

There were worse figures
in the world than ours, and who knew but this miners' dress might
show our forms to an advantage at which they had never been seen before?
Encouraged by the thought, we gave our treasures into safe keeping
and permitted the attendant to disrobe us.

She spoke a dialect which had little meaning to us,
and we carried on our conversation by signs. She hung our habiliments on
pegs, giving Elise' s a little womanly caress for their prettiness.

He had risen to his feet and stood with squared shoulders, legs wide apart, and hands buried
in the pockets of his tightly-fitting trousers. An ugly, ill-tempered, masterful man, who showed
in every line of his attitude that he meant to be supreme lord in his own household.

"Klara Goldstein belongs to this village," he reiterated with forced suavity, "she is my friend,
is she not?"

"She may be your friend, Béla," rejoined Elsa gently, "and she certainly belongs to this village;
but she is not one of us. She is a Jewess, not a Hungarian, like we all are."

"What has her religion to do with it?" he retorted.

"It isn't her religion, Béla," persisted the girl, with obstinacy at least as firm as his own;
"you know that quite well. Though it is an awful thing to think that they crucified our Lord."

"Well! that is a good long while ago," he sneered; "and in any case Klara and Ignácz Goldstein
had nothing to do with it."

"No, I know. Therefore I said that religion had nothing to do with it. I can't explain it exactly,
Béla, but don't we all feel alike about that? Hungarians are Hungarians, and Jews are Jews,
and there's no getting away from that. They are different to us, somehow. I can't say how,
but they are different. They don't speak as we do, they don't think as we do, their Sunday
is Saturday, and their New Year's day is in September. Jewesses can't dance the csárdás and
Jews have a contempt for our gipsy music and our songs. They are Jews and we are Hungarians.
It is altogether different."

He shrugged his shoulders, unable apparently to gainsay this unanswerable argument. After all,
he too was a Hungarian, and proud of that fact, and like all Hungarians at heart, he had an
unexplainable contempt for the Jews. But all the same, he was not going to give in to a woman
in any kind of disagreement, least of all on a point on which he had set his heart. So now
he shifted his ground back to his original dictum.

"You may talk as much as you like, Elsa," he said doggedly, "but Klara Goldstein is my friend,
and I will have her asked to the banquet first and the dance afterwards, or I'll not appear
at it myself." 

This must be admitted by any fair- minded person does he enjoy so large a remuneration. The French
people have records of history and civilization extending beyond the
days of the Roman Empire, and that civilization has gone steadily
forward through many centuries.

This is particularly true of the iron steel business. Nevertheless the
same impression was gained in the inspection of large, as is the rule where efficiency
is not the word so much as is the comfort of the workers. In architecture
and the arts, France leads America.

No wonder then that they excel us in many things; the wonder is that they do not
excel in all. Nations like men profit by experience. Neither of course,
or so arm much as does the American.

But in industrial affairs the story is different. On the whole, wages are much less in other
industrial operations. Since we did not see the plants to the north which had been captured by
the Germans, perhaps it is not altogether fair to make this comparison. By this is meant that
in none of the plants visited was in this country. We saw France not a single steel plant that
could compare in efficiency with the great plants of this country.
The French workman is more artistic but he does not move so rapidly
familiar with the facts.

Our country has adopted more progressive and efficient methods in the
industrial field than can be found in France, the output per man
nearly so great or the share enjoyed by the worker nearly so proportion
to individual production in France than in this country.



Vanity, self-satisfaction, and mayhap something a little more tender, a little more selfless,
stirred in the young man's heart. It was fine to think that this beautiful prize--which so
many had coveted--was his by right of conquest. Even the young lord whose castle was close
by had told Erös Béla that he envied him his good luck, whilst my lord the Count and my lady
the Countess had of themselves offered to be present at the wedding and to be the principal
witnesses on behalf of the most beautiful girl in the county.

These pleasant thoughts softened Béla's mood, and he drew his fiancée quite tenderly to him. When
the word to charge was given, every dude was on the go-- He was there
to die, to capture, or to kill!

Oh, he struck his level when Men were called upon again To preserve
the ancient glory of the old red, white, and blue!

He has thrown his spats away, He is wearing spurs to- day, And the world will please take notice
that the Yankee dude' ll do!

MYOPIA BY WALLACE RICE As down the street he took his stroll, He
cursed, for all he is a saint.

He saw a sign atop a pole, As down the street he took a stroll, And
climbed it up( near- sighted soul), So he could read-- and read"

FRESH PAINT,"... As down the street he took a stroll, He cursed, all he is a saint. Ve mak' it op togedder
dat Ve go an' see dat show, Dere' s som' t' ing dere ve fin' it out
Maybe ve vant to know. Ve leave de leddle farm avile, Dat' s near to
Bourbonnais; Ve' re soon op to Chicago town For spen' de night an'
day; I nevere lak' dat busy place, It' s mos' too swif for me,-- Ve
vaste no tam', but gat to place me Dat ve is com' for see.

Ve pay de price for tak' us in, Dey geeve me deux ticquette; Charlotte
an' me ve com' for see De Horse Show now, you bet.

Ve soon gat in it veree moch," De push," I t' ink you call, To inside on de beeg building, talk Ve'
re going to see it all. De Coliseum is de place, Dey mak' de Horse
Show dere, Five tam' s so beeg dan any barn At Bourbonnais, by gar!

I' m look aroun' for place dey haf' For dem to pitch de hay." I guess it' s' out of sight,' I t'
ink, bright, It' s ven she sees dem vimmens folks, Dey dance vit moch
delight; I den vos tak' a look myself On ladies vit fin' drass, Dere'
s nodding else in dat whol' place Dat is so interes'.

I say," Charlotte," say, Vere bodice it is all meex op Vit jabot all
de vays.

Dat' s hang in front vit pleats all roun'-- It is von fin' tableau."
An' den Charlotte she turn to me An' ask me how I know So moch about
de Beeg Horse Show, W' ich we are com' for see; An' den I op an' tol'
her dere Dat I had com' to be Expert on informatione, Read papier,
I fin' out Vat all is in de Horse' s Show, An' vat' s it all about.

I point to ladee in nex' box, She' s feex op mighty vell, I vish I could haf' vords enough Vat she
had on to tell; De firs' part it vas nodding moch, From cloth it vas quite free, Lak' fleur- de- lis at Easter
tam', Mos' beautiful to see.

An' den dere is commence a line Of fluffy cream soufflé, My vife it mak' her very diz', She' s not a
vord to say. An' den com' yard of crêpe de chine, Vit omelette stripe beneadt', All fill it op vit
fine guimpe jew' ls An' concertina pleat.

Mon Dieu! an' who vould evere t' ink Dat Horse Show vas lak' dese! A Horse Show dere vidout no horse,
I t' ink dat' s strange beeznesse. But I suppose affer de man De dry- goods bill dey pay, Dere' s nodding
lef' to spen' on horse Ontil som' odder day.

I tell you every hour you leeve, You fin' out som' t' ing new; An' now I haf'
som' vords to tell, Som' good it might do you; It' s mighty fonny,
de advise I' m geeve you, of course, But never go to Horses Show Expecting
to see horse.

THE CHAMPION CHECKER- PLAYER OF AMERIKY BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY Of course as fur as Checker- playin' s concerned,
you can' t jest adzackly claim' at lots makes fortunes and lots gits
bu' sted at it-- but still, it' s on' y simple jestice to acknowledge'
at there' re absolute p' ints in the game' at takes scientific principles
to figger out, and a mighty level- headed feller to dimonstrate, don'
t you understand!

Checkers is a' old enough game, ef age is any rickommendation; and it'
s a' evident fact, too,' at" the tooth of time," as the feller says,
which fer the last six thousand years has gained some reputation fer-
eatin' up things in giner' l, don' t' pear to' a' gnawed much of
a hole in Checkers-- jedgin' from the checker- board of to- day and
the ones' at they' re uccasionally shovellin' out at Pomp' y- i, er
whatever its name is. up a checker- board there not long ago this
thing up--' less I could manage, some way er other, I wuz readin''
bout,' at still had the spots on-- as plain and fresh as the modern
white- pine board o' our' n, squared off with pencil- marks and pokeberry-
juice.

These is facts' at history herself has dug out, and of course it ain' t fer me ner you to turn our
nose up at Checkers, whuther we ever tamper with the fool- game er not. Fur' s that' s concerned,
I don' t p' tend to be no checker- player myse' f,-- but I know'
d a feller onc' t' at could play, and sorto' made a business of it;
and that man, in my opinion, was a geenyus!

Name wuz Wesley Cotterl-- John Wesley Cotterl-- jest plain Wes, as us fellers round the Shoe-
Shop ust to call him; ust to allus make the Shoe- Shop his headquarters-
like; and, rain er shine, wet er dry, you' d allus find Wes on hands,
ready to banter some feller fer a game, er jest a- settin' have humped
up there over the checker- board all alone, a- cipher' n' out some
new move er' nuther, and whistlin' low and solem' to hisse' f- like
and a- payin' no attention to nobody.

And I' ll tell you, Wes Cotterl wuz no man' s fool, as sly as you keep it!
He wuz a deep thinker, Wes wuz; and ef he' d' a' jest turned that
mind o' his loose on preachin', fer instunce, and the' terpertation
o' the Bible, don' t you know, Wes' ud' a' worked p' ints out o' there'
at no livin' expounderers ever got in gunshot of!

But Wes he didn' t' pear to be cut out fer nothin' much but jest Checker- playin'. Oh, of course,
he could knock round his own woodpile some, and garden a little,
more er less; and the neighbers ust to find Wes purty handy' bout
trimmin' fruit- trees, you understand, and workin' in among the worms
and cattapillers in the vines and shrubbery, and the like.

And handlin' bees!-- They wuzn' t no man under the heavens' at knowed
more' bout handlin' bees' n Wes Cotterl!--" Settlin'" the blame'
things when they wuz a- swarmin'; and a naked hands, by the quart and
gallon, and never git a scratch!

You couldn' t hire a bee to sting Wes Cotterl!

But lazy?-- I think that man had railly ort to' a' been a' Injun!

He wuz the fust and on' y man' at ever I laid eyes on' at wuz too feller, with a polite flourish of his hand;"
the first move shall be your' n." And, by jucks! fer all he wouldn' t take even the advantage of
a starter, he flaxed it to Wes the fust game in less' n fifteen minutes." Right shore you' ve give'
me your best player?" he says, smilin lazy to drap a checker- man
to p' int out the right road fer a feller' at ast him onc' t the way
to Burke' s Mill; and Wes,' ithout ever a- liftin' eye er digit, jest
sorto' crooked out that mouth o' his' n in the direction the feller
wanted, and says:" H- yonder!" and went on with his whistlin'.

But all this hain' t Checkers, and that' s what I started out to tell
ye. Wes had a way o' jest all natchurly a- cleanin' out anybody and
ever' body' at' ud he' p hold up a checker- board! Wes the yeers of some
mighty good checker- players," says I, as he squared the board around,
still a- whistlin' to hisse' f- like, as the stranger tuk his place,
the crowd, as Wes set squarin' the board fer another game and whistlin' as
onconcerned- robbin' hives, and all sich fool- resks.

W' y, I' ve saw Wes Cotterl,' fore now, when a swarm of bees' ud settle
in wuzn' t what you' d call a lively player at all, ner a competiter' at
talked much' crost the board er made much furse over a game whilse
he wuz a- playin'.

He had his faults, o' course, and would take back moves' casion' ly, er inch up on you ef you didn'
t watch him, mebby. But, as a rule, Wes had the insight to grasp the idy of whoever wuz a- playin' ag'
in' him, and his style o' game, you understand, and wuz on the lookout
continual'; and under sich circumstances could play as honest a game
o' Checkers as the babe unborn.

One thing in Wes' s favor allus wuz the feller' s temper.-- Nothin'' peared to aggervate Wes, and
nothin' on earth could break his slow and lazy way o' takin' his own time fer ever' thing. You
jest couldn' t crowd Wes er git him rattled anyway.-- Jest' peared to have one fixed principle,
and that wuz to take plenty o' time, and never make no move' ithout
a- ciphern' n' ahead on the prob' ble consequences, don' t you understand!"
Be shore you' re right," Wes' ud say, a- lettin' up fer a second
on that low and sorry- like little wind- through- the- keyhole whistle
o' his, and a- nosin' out a place whur he could swap one man fer two.--"

Be shore you' re right"-- and somep' n' after this style wuz Wes' s way:"
Be shore you' re right"--( whistling a long, lonesome bar of" Barbara Allen")--"
and then"--( another long, retarded bar)--" go ahead!"-- and by the
time the feller' ud git through with his whistlin', and a- stoppin'
and a- startin' in ag' in, he' d be about three men ahead to your
one.

And then he' d jest go on with his whistlin'' sef nothin' had happened, and mebby
you a- jest a- rearin' and a- callin' him all the mean, outlandish, ornry
names' at you could lay tongue to. But Wes' s good nature, I reckon,
was the thing' at he' ped him out as much as any other p' ints the feller
had. And Wes' ud allus win, in the long run!-- I don' t keer who
played ag' inst him!

It was on' y a question o' time with Wes o' waxin' it to the best of'
em. Lots o' players has tackled Wes, and right at the start' ud mebby
give him trouble,-- but in the long run, now mind ye-- in the long run,
no mortal man, I reckon, had any business o' rubbin' knees with Wes Cotterl
under no airthly checker- board in all this vale o' tears! I mind
onc' t th' come along a high- toned feller from in around In' i' nop'
lus somers.-- Wuz a lawyer, er some p' fessional kind o' man. Had a big
yaller, luther- kivvered book under his arm, and a bunch o' these-' ere
big envelop' s and a lot o' suppeenies stickin' out o' his breastpocket.

Mighty slick- lookin' feller he wuz; wore a stovepipe hat, sorto' set' way back on his head-- so'
s to show off his Giner' l Jackson forr' ed, don ve saw fellers in
my time' at wuz!" says he.

But from that time on I noticed the feller' peared to play more keerful,
and railly la' nched into the game with somepin' like inter'' t you
know staunch! Well- sir, this feller struck the place, on some business
er other, and then missed the hack' at ort to' a' tuk him out o'
here sooner' n it did take him out!-- And whilse he wuz a- loafin'
round, sorto' lonesome-- like a feller allus is in a strange place,
you know-- he kindo' drapped in on our crowd at the Shoe- Shop, ostenchably
to git a boot- strop stitched on, but I knowed, the minute he set
foot in the door,' at that feller wanted comp' ny wuss' They ain'
t much use," says the feller," o' keepin', to git beat onc' t' n a
while!""

Move," says Wes, a- drappin' back into the same old whistle and a-
settlin' there."' Music has charms,' as the n cobblin'.

Well, as good luck would have it, there set Wes, as usual, with the
checker- board in his lap, a- playin' all by hisse' f, and a- whistlin'
so low and solem'- like and sad it railly made the crowd seem like
a religious getherun' o' some kind er other, we wuz all so quiet and
still- like, as the man come in.

Well, the stranger stated his business, set down, tuk off his boot,
and set there nussin' his foot and talkin' weather fer ten minutes, I
reckon,' fore he ever' peared to notice Wes at all.

We wuz all back' ard, anyhow,' bout talkin' much; besides, we knowed,
long afore he come in, all about how hot the weather wuz, and the
pore chance there wuz o' rain, and all that; and so the in subject
had purty well died out, when jest then the feller' s eyes struck
Wes and the checker- board,-- and I' ll never fergit the warm, salvation
smile' at flashed over him at the promisin' discovery."

What!" says he, a- grinnin' like a' angel and a- edgin' his cheer to' rds Wes,"
have we a checker- board and checkers here?"" We hev," says I, knowin'' at
Wes wouldn' t let go o' that whistle long enough to answer-- more' n
to mebby nod his head."

And who is your best player?" says the feller, kindo' pitiful- like, with another inquirin'
look at Wes." Him," says I, a- pokin' Wes with a peg- float. But Wes
on' y spit kindo' absent- like, and went on with his whistlin'."

Much of a player, is he?" says the feller, with a sorto' doubtful smile at Wes ag' in." Plays a purty
good hick' ry," says I, a- pokin' Wes ag' in." Wes," says I," here'
s a gentleman' at' ud mebby like to take a hand with you there, and
give you a few idys," says I."

Yes," says the, eager- like, a- settin' his plug- hat keerful' up in the empty
shelvin', and a- rubbin' his hands and smilin' as confident- like
as old Hoyle hisse' f,--" Yes, indeed, I' d be glad to give the gentleman"(
meanin' Wes)" a' idy er two about Checkers-- ef he' d jest as lief,--'
cause I reckon ef there' re any one thing' at I do know more about' an another,
it' s Checkers," says he;" and there' re no game' at delights me
more-- pervidin', o' course, I find a competiter' at kin make it
anyways interestin'."" Got much of a rickord on Checkers?" says I."

Well," says the feller," I don' t like to brag, but I' ve never ben beat--
in any legitimut contest," says he," and I' ve played more' n one o' them,"
he says," here and there round the country.

Of course, your friend here," he went on, smilin' sociable at Wes,"
he' ll take it all in good part ef I should happen to lead him a
little-- jest as I' d do," he says," ef it wuz possible fer him to
lead me.""

Wes," says I," has warmed the wax in a' orchard,-- like they will sometimes, you know,-- I' ve saw Wes
Cotterl jest roll up his shirt- sleeves and bend down a' apple tree limb' at wuz jest kivvered
with the pesky things, and scrape' em back into the hive with his- like as ef nothin' had happened
more' n ordinary."' S your move," says Wes, a- squintin' out into
the game' bout forty foot from shore, and a- whistlin' purt' nigh
in a whisper.

Well- sir, it' peared- like the feller railly didn' t try to play; and you
could see, too,' at Wes knowed he' d about met his match, and played
accordin'.

He didn' t make no move at all' at he didn' t give keerful thought
to; whilse the feller--! well, as I wuz sayin', it jest' peared-
like Checkers wuz child' s- play fer him!

Putt in most o' the time' long through the game a- sayin' things
calkilated to kindo' bore a' ordinary man. But Wes helt hisse' f purty level,
and didn' t show no signs, and kep' up his whistlin', mighty well-- considerin'."
Reckon you play the fiddle, too, as well as Checkers?" says the feller, laughin',
as Wes come a- whistlin' out of the little end of the second game and went on
a- fixin' fer the next round."' S my move!" says Wes,' thout seemin'
to notice the feller' s tantalizin' words whatsomever."' L! this
time," thinks I," Mr. Smarty from the metrolopin deestricts, you'
re liable to git waxed-- shore!"

But the feller didn' t' pear to think so at all, and played right ahead as glib- like and keerless as ever--'
casion' ly a- throwin' in them sircastic remarks o' his' n,--' bout bein'" slow and shore"'
bout things in gineral--" Liked to see that," he said:--" Liked
to see fellers do things with plenty o' deliberation, and even ef
a feller wuzn' t much of a checker"

Dey' s von man to me say. An' den ve valk aroun' an'' roun' Som' horses for
to see; Dere' s pretty vomans, lots of dem, But, for de life of me, I
can not see de trotter nag, Or vat' s called t' oroughbred, I vonder
if ve mak' mistake, Gat in wrong place instead.

But Charlotte is not disappoint', Her eyes dey shine so- player, liked
to see him die slow anyhow!-- and then' tend his own funeral," he
says,--" and march in the p' session-- to his own music," says he.--
And jest then his remarks wuz brung to a close by Wes a- jumpin' two
men, and a- lightin' square in the king- row.... a- smilin'- like and
roachin' back his hair." Move," says Wes."

No," says the' round at day" Crown that," says Wes, a- droppin' back into his
old tune.

And fer the rest o' that game Wes helt the feller purty level, but
had to finally knock under-- but by jest the clos' test kind o' shave
o' winnin'."

Good Book tells us," says the feller, kindo' nervous- like, and a- roachin' his hair back as ef
some sort o' p' tracted headache wuz a- settin' in."

Never wuz' skunked,' wuz ye?" says Wes, kindo' suddent- like, with a fur-
off look in them big white eyes o' his-- and then a- whistlin' right
on' sef he hadn' t said nothin'."

Not much!" says the feller, sorto' s' prised- like, as ef such a' idy as that had
never struck him afore.--"

Never was' skunked' myse' f: but I' st. Wes he seemed to be jest a- limber-
in'- up- like; and- sir, blame me! ef he didn' t walk the feller'
s log fer I to her," Dat ladee in box seat-- Across de vay vos von
beeg swell, Her beauty' s hard to beat; De von dat' s gat fonee eyeglass
Opon a leddle stek, I' m t' ink she is most' fin' lookin' Wen she
bow an' spe' k."

It' s pretty drass dat she'
s got on, I lak' de polonaise him that time,' thout no' pearent trouble
at all!" And, now," says Wes, all quiet- like, a- squarin' the board
fer another' n,--" we' re kindo' gittin' at things right.

Move." And away went that little unconcerned whistle o' his ag' in, and Mr. Cityman, jest gittin'
white and sweaty too-- he wuz so nervous. Ner he didn' t' pear to find much to laugh at in the
next game-- ner the next two games nuther! Things wuz a- gettin' mighty
interestin'' bout them times, and I guess the feller wuz ser' ous-
like a- wakin' up to the solem' fact' at it tuk' bout all his spare
time to keep up his end o' the row, and even that state o' pore satisfaction
wuz a- creepin' furder and furder away from him ever' new turn he
undertook.

Whilse Wes jest peared to git more deliber' t' and certain ever'
game; and that unendin' se' f- satisfied and comfortin' little whistle
o' his never drapped a stitch, but toed out ever' game alike,-- to'
rds the last, and, fer the part, disasterss to the feller' at had
started in with sich confidence actchul promise, don' t you know.

Well- sir, the feller stuck the whole forenoon out, and then the afternoon;
and then knuckled down to it' way into the night-- yes, and plum midnight!--
And he buckled into the thing bright and airly next morning!

 The postman had brought
it here two years ago: her father had taken it from him and thrust it into the pocket of his
bunda, meaning to give it presently to his daughter.

But that evening perhaps he forgot it altogether: he had been drinking rather heavily of late.
And the next day he was stricken down with paralysis, his tongue refused him service, and he
no longer could tell his daughter--as no doubt he wanted to do--that a letter had come for
her and that it was in the pocket of his bunda.

And the bunda was thrust away into the dower-chest with the husks of maize and the cabbage-stalks,
and it had never been taken out until to-night--the eve of Elsa's wedding-day.

She tore open the envelope now with fingers that trembled slightly. The light was very dim,
and where the glorious sunset had been such a little while ago there was only the dull grey
canopy of an overcast sky. But Elsa could just make out the writing: already her eye had wandered
to the signature, "your ever-devoted Andor." The message seemed to come to her as from the
grave, for she thought that these were probably Andor's last words to her, penned just before
he died in that awful hospital in Bosnia.

     "My sweet dove!" she read. "This is to tell you that I
     am well: although it has been a close fight between
     life and death for me. But I did so want to live, my
     sweetheart, for I have you to look forward to in life.
     I have been at death's door, and I believe that the
     doctor here, before he went away one evening, signed
     the paper to say that I was dead. But that same night I
     took a turn for the better, and it was wonderful how
     soon I was up again. I'll tell you all about it some
     day, my love, some day when I come to claim your
     promise that you would wait for me. Because, dear
     heart, while I have been ill I have been thinking very
     seriously. I have not a silver florin to bless myself
     with: how can I come and dare to ask you to be my wife?
     Your father and mother would kick me out of their
     house, they would forbid me to see you; they would part
     you from me, my dear, beautiful angel, and I should
     feel that it was just. I--a good-for-nothing, penniless
     lout, daring to approach the queen of beauty, the most
     exquisite girl on God's earth. I have thought it all
     over, dear heart, and all will be well if you will be
     true to me--if you will wait for me another two years.
     Oh! I do not ask you to do it, I am not worthy of your
     love. Who am I, that you should keep yourself for
     me?--but I will pray to God night and day that He may
     not take away your love from me. I am going to America,
     dear heart, with an English gentleman who has been very
     kind to me. He was the English Consul at Cettinje, and
     when there were so many of us--Hungarian lads--lying
     sick of that awful cholera in the hospital at
     Slovnitza, his wife, a sweet, kind lady, used to come
     and visit us and cheer us up. She was very ugly and had
     big teeth and no waist, but she was an angel of
     goodness. Combined with the development of smoke, this may render
     unnecessary the highly organised
     
     trench assembly systems of the recent war, used before
     the assault, and, with the development of the tank as a fast
     fighting machine, and
     
     for the transport of troops, one can obtain a glimpse of the
     nature of the new attack and counter- attack. This may not deter a man
     from crossing an affected zone, but it may deter the
     Staffs from using
     
     that zone, when
     
     they realise that this would imply the certainty of many
     thousands of casualties amongst the troops The Allies definitely
     refrained from employing the combination Germany should
     give them the start in what was regarded as a new atrocity. In
     general, the former represented an attempt to purify
     
     the poisoned
     
     air actually inspired
     
     by the soldier, whereas the latter was an attempt to purify the atmosphere
of a locality or to prevent its initial poisoning.
     

     In this case, not only was it clear that the Germans would not attempt to
     advance beyond a limited objective( and they did not),
     but the development of their attack left them organising
     their defences behind their own mustard gas barrage. A
     
     new military factor emerges, the artificial, permanent,
     unmanned obstacle, which can be laid down at will on areas whose
     magnitude depends finally on manufacturing capacity. In particular,
     a divisional order taken in December, 1917, gave the gas
     danger zone as within fifteen kilometres of the front line,
     and when within this region every one must carry a mask.
     The Germans were certainly aware of these possibilities. Consider
     the phenomenal amount of muscular energy required to organise
     any captured stretch of territory against counter- attack.
     This gas was" stronger" than any of the gases at present in
     use; it possessed a persistence up to eight days, and
     could, therefore, not be used on the front for an assault.
     Such conditions, however, can only occur if one,
     side possesses some distinct advantage with regard to surprise heavenly by,
or efficient protection against, the persistent lethal compound.

     
     Individual protection covered the mask and any other protective
     appliance used by the individual soldier, while the term
     collective protection was applied to any method or appliance which
     afforded simultaneous protection for a number of individuals. The
     Critical Range.-- These considerations are very interesting
     from the military point of view. It was clear that the Germans were
attempting to produce a gas which was not only highly lethal but persistent.
Explosives, which might miss their objective on the field of battle,
could not do so in a city.

     One of the most significant possibilities in chemical warfare
     development is the arrival of this type of the compound, the highly
     lethal, highly persistent chemical.
     
     The last important German development consisted in the use of
     
     pumice impregnated with phosgene in their Livens bombs.
     According to the statement of an apparently
     
reliable prisoner of the 30th R. I. R., July, 1918, the Regimental Gas
Officer stated in a lecture Germans were going to employ a" White Cross"
gas shell.

     The type of compound we have outlined is likely to change
     completely the aspect of attack and counter- attack. For the
     sake of our argument, we can divide these into
     
     two classes, those attained through the respiratory and digestive
     systems and those attained through contact with some other
     part of the body. But the German aeroplanes left no blind or dud shell,
and, beyond the violent nasal and sneezing effects of Blue Cross,
evidence was again absent. The arrival of the highly persistent lethal compound
should provide an effective substitute for this laborious constructional
protection in the shape of the persistent lethal barrage.

     One of the advantages of gas over explosives on the field of battle
was its greater range of action. Such operations will have to occur
through a wide zone of the new gas and will necessitate the anti- gas tank.
It is true that, with the next attack," kicking off" and assembly
positions will be required, for these can be much more efficiently
developed behind a deep chemical barrage and will demand the exposure
of fewer men where more time is available for preparation.

     

     Its persistence was favoured by damp or misty weather and by the nature
of the ground. The use of impregnated blankets for this purpose must
be well known to any who visited the front or took part in hostilities.
This report was very persistent, for, in July, 1918, there were again
rumours that Blue Cross bombs had been dropped on the British near
Ficheux.

The sudden development of such barriers will be equivalent in effect to the creation of strong trench systems,
but these could never result, under war conditions, in time to approach the strategic flexibility and importance
of the persistent lethal infected barrier. If we admit the possibility of a persistent
lethal compound, this question of critical range assumes outstanding
importance.

In the forward area absolute readiness was required within two miles of the front line, and special
precautions were taken as far back as twelve miles. But its more urgent need on the front, and
the fact that soon after it arrived the Germans were sending out feelers to see whether the Allies
would consider the cessation of chemical warfare, were probably sufficient
reasons to explain their failure to use from aeroplanes.

No
really harmful persistent compound appeared before the advent of mustard gas, and the dangerous
non- persistent types, such as phosgene, could not have been used with great success,
owing to the fact that very considerable quantities would have been
required to produce any serious effect. A recent writer[ 1] has shown
us the future tank carrying war into the enemy' s country and destroying
his nerve centres by actually reaching and paralysing the G. H. Q. s.
of armies and smaller s plan, blocking out a certain area, or the certainty
of huge casualties. The main reason for their lack of development on these
lines was probably formations.

Automatically, fewer men will be needed to hold the advanced positions. They
all lie in the direction of collective protection.[ 1] Tanks in the Great
War, Col. J. F. C. Fuller., D. S. O. The"

Alert Gas Zone."-- The development of the" gas alert" idea has definite interest for the
future of chemical warfare. Protection developed along two main lines. It certainly seems to have countered
satisfactorily all the war attacks upon the respiratory system, although,
as we have pointed out, the Germans might have failed, had we been
that, as the Allies had used a new gas, the sufficiently prompt in
introducing our arsenic compounds.

The summer of 1917 witnessed a great increase in gas shell activity.
There is no doubt what this will he when the persistent lethal compound
arrives, and mustard gas would probably have been superior to explosives for
use by German aircraft on British cities. In the autumn of that year all periods
of readiness were abolished and replaced by a constant state of readiness.

The New No- Man' s- Land.-- The recent war witnessed a rather sudden adoption of trench warfare,
during a period in which the artillery strengths of both sides were relatively feeble, when compared with
the later stages of the war.

Protective Development;-- Individual Protection.-- The question of
protection against chemical attack presents some knotty problems for
the future.

Substance.-- The importance of these considerations can hardly be exaggerated
when we realise that, at any time, a substance possessing the same strategic value
as mustard gas, but much more violent casualty effects, may be discovered.
The alert position of the mask was insisted upon within two kilometres
of the front line.

Gas and Aircraft.-- The combination of gas and aircraft presents the possibility of attaining strategic effects
by chemical means. This tendency must have increased, had the war continued, for both sides were employing
gas in guns of larger calibres, and weapons were being devised, such as the improved German Livens
projector, which gave high concentrations at much greater distances
from the front line, i. e. with greater critical ranges.

The former can probably be satisfactorily met by developments in the mask.
Imposed on this, there will, no doubt, be" gas alert" conditions of great depths.
Collective Protection.-- All parties dabbled in such a form of protection,
but the French were the only ones to make a large- scale experiment
on the front. It would appear that the possession of such a compound
and the means of producing and using it on a very large scale could
determine the stationary or open nature of warfare, if other forces
were not too unequal.

The" Persistent Lethal" The germ of the idea appeared during the war at
Kemmel and in the various mustard gas barrages formed by artillery
or delayed used by the Germans in their great retreat.

Herein lies the importance of the development of such weapons as the
Livens projector, and the Germans had certainly grasped an important
principle, when they used our own modified weapon against us with
a much greater range than our own. By July the alert zone had increased
in depth in both armies.

Many rumours were afloat, towards the end of the war, regarding the use of gas by enemy aircraft,
and there was apprehension amongst the civil populations, which has
been reflected in numerous public utterances.

This, however, is no criterion as to its eventual importance. Further reports
in August indicated the use of Blue Cross, owing to the sneezing
effects which were produced on those within reach of the air bomb.

Another point must be raised in connection with the use of gas from
aircraft which has not yet received much attention. Successful progress
from one trench system meant building another, under the pounding
of the enemy him' s artillery, and the deadly fire of machine- guns,
exposing, in this improvised system, large numbers of troops, among
which casualties constituted a continuous drain upon eventual reserves.

This might be called the" critical range." The Air Forces of the different
armies were, perhaps, the last to feel the effects of the gas campaign, but
the pilots of low- flying aeroplanes in the 1918 offensive were constantly
crossing pockets of gas, and this, added to the fact that the pilots
were often compelled to land in gas, led to their equipment with gas masks.
The last word has certainly not been spoken in the struggle between
the mask and the chemical attempting to penetrate it. But the war gave
us no direct evidence of the successful use of gas and war chemicals
from aircraft. Evidence on the matter is very scanty.

In July, 1917, the use of gas in aeroplane bombs by the Germans was
reported, but not confirmed been. The choice is between two evils,
tactical acquiescence to the enemy' the fact that the most suitable
type of gas only developed during the later stages of the war, when it
was required exceedingly urgently on the front.

The discovery and mass production of a persistent lethal substance is likely to convert No- Man' s- Land
into a permanently infected gas zone, manned by special outposts of
permanently protected troops. Mustard gas, however, which could have haunted
a city for days, would not have been required in such large quantities.
Accordingly, there arose very definite lines of field fortifications,
and strongly held trench systems, separated from each other by a comparatively
narrow No- Man' s very- Land, With the development of the formidable
artillery strengths of belligerents, there was a tendency to form
a much wider No- Man' s- Land, and the front line systems were lightly
held, approximating, in many cases, to an outpost line.

In
October, the evidence was more conclusive. We must remember that
the use of projectiles from aircraft over a city was a very different
proposition from their use over a battle- field. This will render immediate
counter- attack and near machine- gun fire very difficult. It produced
effects at longer distances from the point of impact, but no such
incentive existed for the use of gas from aeroplanes over large cities.

Following up this idea, we can forecast the use of a chemical which will not only permit the
formation of defensive flanks, or pockets, in the enemy front, or in our own defensive positions, through
their influence on Staff considerations with regard to casualties, but, by replacing the relatively
mild casualty effect of mustard gas by a highly and rapidly lethal effect, will render these areas not only
strategically, but physically, impassable.

They were bound to hit something. It was not very successful, for the burden of these oilskin suits
was intolerable. This was reflected in important changes in the"
gas alert" regulations. That the Germans suffered under the same
restraints is witnessed by many captured documents.

Let us glance at the broad lines of war development in field and forecast their future in a speculative way.
It is well known how the development of gas shell and surprise gas
shoots by the Germans led to the necessity for" gas alert" conditions
between certain times and within certain distances of the front line.

Neither the German drum nor the masks of the Allies afforded protection against it. A very interesting
case occurred in the German attack near Mt. Kemmel in the spring
of 1918, where large quantities of German mustard gas were used some distance
in front of the original line of German attack. How far can the individual form
of protection develop to meet the possibilities of the chemical attack?
The mask had to be worn in the so- called ready position, in order that
swift adjustment might be possible in case of surprise attack. But
we have forecasted the use of chemicals which may attack human functions
hitherto immune. The Somme battlefield, for example, gave the impression
of a series of defensive positions organised by the one side or the
other after attack or counter- attack, in order to hold small gains
of ground, which were never intended to represent the final advance.

We have seen how the possible development of a persistent lethal compound
may produce an infected and wide No- Man' s- Land.

Even that does not appear certain, when we remember the emphasis laid by Germany upon the possibility
of penetrating the mask by using a particulate cloud. A respirator of special type was taken
from a German aviator in April, 1918, after the fighting at Passchendaele.
But both the introduction of mustard gas and general speculative
grounds justify us in concluding that attacks may materialise upon
other parts of the human organism, We cannot foresee the actual point
of attack and can, therefore, only view assurance some form of protection
which covers the whole body.

How do these conceptions work out for the war of movement? The load of the aeroplane is always important,
and the essential is to carry, weight for weight, the material which will produce the most effect. We
must, therefore, see whether it is not possible to protect numbers
of men by removing them from contact with the poisoned atmosphere.

What are the possibilities? Indeed, one of the most important functions
of the tank will be to carry the advance guard of an army beyond the infected
No- Man' s- Land, and such an advance will occur behind a series
of smoke barrages created, in the first place, by the artillery, and,
later, by the advance of tanks themselves.

The individual cannot be satisfactorily protected from the new gas and remain
an efficient soldier.

It may be that some successful form of protection for the whole body
will materialise, but on general grounds we can assume that development will
follow other lines. On the British front these enormous dug- outs, although
not absent, were largely replaced by the efficient gas- proof organisation
of the smaller dugouts. When both sides are equally matched in this
respect, a duel will arise in which the winner will be the one who
can throw the critical concentrations of chemical into a given area
at the greatest range.

But you cannot imprison a whole army in this way. A stationary form
of such protection was used by all the armies, but emphasised by the French,
by the creation of a large number of enormous underground chambers,
some capable of holding more than a thousand men, the entries to which
were carefully protected by special filtering devices to prevent the
entry of the poisoned external atmosphere.



She went to bed directly after the Pater went away, because there was no more candle in the
house, and because her mother kept calling querulously to her; and having stretched her young
limbs out upon the hard paillasse, she slept quite peacefully, because she was young and healthy
and did not suffer from nerves, and because sorrow had made her very weary.

And the next morning, the dawn of the first of those all-important three days, found her busy,
alert, quite calm outwardly, even though her cheeks had lost something of their rosy hue, and
her blue eyes had a glitter in them which suggested unshed tears.

There was a lot to do, of course: the invalid to get ready, the mother's dressing to see to,
so that she should not look slovenly in her appearance, and call forth some of those stinging
remarks from Béla which had the power to wound the susceptibilities of his fiancée.

Irma was captious and in a tearful humour, bemoaning the fact that she was too poor to pay
for her only daughter's farewell repast.

"Whoever heard of a bridegroom paying for his fiancée's farewell?" she said. "You will despise
your poor parents now, Elsa."

It was certainly an unusual thing under the circumstances; the maiden's farewell to the friends
of her girlhood, to their parents and belongings, is a great event in this part of the world
in connection with the wedding festivities themselves, of which it is the precursor. Select round tomatoes
of equal size; peel and scoop out the seeds from the stem end. Place
the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill with celery
that has been chopped fine and mixed with mayonnaise.

Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or plate. Garnish the dish further by placing
the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley on top of each tomato. Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits,
or salted wafers. Be generous with the filling. Use plenty of the
mayonnaise and celery and fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs( well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar( scant)
one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter( melted). Pepper and salt to
taste, mix thoroughly. Set in kettle of boiling water and stir till it
thickens,( about four minutes), when ready to use it add two tablespoons
cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes, one small lettuce, one bunch cress,
two tablespoons salad oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and
salt.

Shred all the salad finely. Mix well with the. dressing and put a little
on half the bread and butter. Cover with the other half, press together
and trim neatly.

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard, one
dessert spoon of sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper.

One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES no. MRS. A. J. ELLIOT a dash of sugar
and cayenne, and four eggs.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in.

Garnish dish with either salad or parsley. METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this
on the eggs well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this
last slowly, and stir all the time.

Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when
cold add the mustard.-- Prepared mustard is made as follows: two tablespoons
mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt, enough boiling
water to mix.

Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also good for
chicken. Put the eggs in boiling water. PRESERVING EGGS. MRS. FARQUHARSON
SMITH.( Which keeps them from June to June.) Half a gallon of fresh
lime to five gallons of water added by degrees, two and one half gallons
the first day, the rest next, then add one half gallon coarse salt,
stir two or three times a day for three days, after this drop in four
eggs gently.

To test the strength of the lime- water drop in an egg that you know to be fresh, and if it floats
the lime is too strong, add another gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.
CURÉE EGGS. MISS MITCHELL. Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and
cut them in half; have drawn butter not too thick, flavor with curée
powder.

Place your
eggs on a side dish, pour your curée round and finish with parsley:
makes a pretty lunch dish.

POACHED EGGS.

Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste.

After poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely chopped
parsley over them. Garnish the dish with parsley. ANCHOVY EGGS. MADAME
J. T. Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes.
Let boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks and leave the
whites in cold water not to discolor.

Pound three anchovies in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne,
one half teaspoon lemon juice and the yolks of the eggs. When pounded smooth put back into the
eggs.

Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies.

STUFFED EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT. Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley,
two tablespoons minced ham. Boil the eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells,
cut lengthways, take out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter
melted, the minced ham and the parsley.

Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs.

Put the two halves together. Serve on shallow dish with the following
white sauce: one tablespoon each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup
milk, one saltspoon pepper.

Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk( gradually) and pepper
and salt.

BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk, and a tablespoonful melted butter,
wet three teaspoonfuls flour in a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and pepper
to taste. Bake twenty minutes. CHEESE OMELET. MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three tablespoons
of fresh cream.

OMELET.

MISS M' GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper and salt.
Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt, and
chopped parsley and the flour dissolved in a then put in the oven until
a golden brown. CHEESE DISHES. CHEESE STRAWS.. J. MACNAUGHTON. Mix one
cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful of flour, one half
saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper and butter the size
of an egg.

Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin. Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in
a quick oven. CHEESE SCALLOP. MISS FRASER. Soak one cup of dried bread
crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat the yolks of three eggs, add one
teaspoon of butter, and half a pound of grated cheese.

Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate brown.

Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top and
return to the oven for a few minutes.

THE CHAFING DISH. A Relish and a Savory. WELSH RAREBIT. MISS GRACE M' MILLAN. Allow for each person
one egg. Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar,
one tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard,, one tablespoonful
of grated cheese, one half teaspoonful of butter, one saltspoon of
salt, and a few grains of cayenne.

Cook like custard until smooth.

Spread on toast and serve at once.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS BEEMER. Select richest and best American cheese,( Canadian will do), the milder
the better, as melting brings out strength.

To make five rarebits take one pound cheese grate and put in the
saucepan; add ale( old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently,
say about a wine glassful to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted.

Have ready a slice of toast for each rarebit( crusts trimmed); put a slice on each plate, and
pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it. Serve at once. GOLDEN
BUCK A" Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which
is put carefully on top of rarebit. LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG. MRS. J.
G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs( hard boiled),
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons
of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks
of the eggs with a silver spoon and gradually add the cream.

Place the butter in a granite ware saucepan, add the flour, let it
cook slowly for one minute and then pour in the balance of the cream
and stir until the liquid thickens. Add the first mixture and then
the lobster meat and the whites of the eggs sliced, season with cayenne
pepper, and salt, add the wine and serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth,
add one cup of cream, let it heat through, then add one can of lobster.

Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine, if desired;
serve at once on squares of toast. Canned chicken or salmon can be
done the same way. OYSTER COCKTAIL. MISS RITCHIE. One dessertspoonful
tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of horse radish, about
half a dozen oysters, and the same on top.

Serve in small tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around them and
with oyster biscuits.

CRUSTINE.

MRS. A. COOK. Boil the liver of two chickens,( or turkey will do), pound them
to a paste with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of
anchovy and a little cayenne. Serve on hot toast. Small anchovies whole,
laid on top are an improvement. PIES." Who dare deny the truth, there'
s poetry in pie."-- LONGFELLOW.

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG.( Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.) Place on a deep
pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good rim on the side and
about put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill up with a
custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of sugar beaten
together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little salt and
add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE. Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three
eggs, juice of two lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on the
stove to boil and add at once one tea- cup boiling water, stir smooth,
then add two tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water,
and one tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE. MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two- thirds of a cup
of water for ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one
cup sugar, the juice of a lemon and butter half the size of an egg,
let boil a few minutes.

Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn- starch and yolk of one egg in half
cup milk stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick.

Beat whites of two eggs into stiff froth for frosting. LEMON PIE. MRS. STRANG. Take two lemons,
three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls white sugar;
squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate the rind of one, stir together the yolks
of three eggs and white of one with the sugar, butter, juice and rind, then
one( coffee) cup of sweet cream or milk, beat all for a minute or
two; have ready a plate lined with paste, into oven and bake a delicate
brown.

Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly
and cause the pie to fall when taken out. PASTRY salt: beat the whites
of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add to the above, turn into
a frying pan, until the mixture sets and, cornstarch and of stale
sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk, one cup of.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking
powder, one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

MOCK CHERRY PIE. MRS. W. W. HENRY. One cup cranberries cut up, one
half cup of raisins chopped, one half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful
vanilla, one tablespoonful corn- starch, two- thirds cup sugar, a
little salt.

This makes one pie.

MINCE MEAT.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON. One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound
apples, one pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants, two
nutmegs, a large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt, one
half pound of candied peel. PIE PLANT PIE. MRS. R. M. STOCKING. One cup
sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of pie plant,
bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon sugar
over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE. One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon
cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two
crusts. SOUR CREAM PIE. One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one
egg, one half cup sugar, the eating." ALMOND PUDDING MRS. STOCKING.

One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar,
one heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk,
sugar, and cornstarch in double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when
boiling; pour into pudding dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and
brown in oven, to be served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE. Stew the apples in a pie dish, stir in the well
beaten yolks of three eggs, bring to a boil. Slice thin a few ripe bananas,
pour the custard over them. Put whipped cream on top or if not cream
the whites of the three eggs well beaten with sugar. To be eaten
cold. BREAD PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread, one layer
of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter. until bowl
is full, put a plate on top and steam for at least two hours, more
will do no harm.

Turn out a few minutes before wanted to let the juice penetrate the bread
that was uppermost. COTTAGE PUDDING. MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon of butter,
add two eggs, and after beating, the mixture until light, add a cupful
of milk; mix well after in a sieve a pint of sifted flour and three
teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve into the mixture
already made, beat quickly and pour the batter into one large pudding
dish or two small ones.

Sprinkle with sugar, bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes or
thirty if there be two.

Serve hot with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.-- Beat two eggs very light, and add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon
of melted butter, one small tablespoon of cornstarch, beat all together,
then add one cup of boiling water, cook five minutes, boiling all the while.
Cook a little longer if set in a when soft place the following batter
on top: one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar and butter, two tablespoonfuls
each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, bake forty
five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M' GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of
white sugar and one third of a cup of butter.

Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water to make a thick custard;
basin of hot water, take from the fire, and add juice of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. One quart of milk scalded, two eggs well beaten, add gradually
one cup sugar. With the eggs and sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and
three heaping tablespoons grated chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir into
the milk until a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve with
whipped cream. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one tea cup of sugar,
three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one half teaspoonful
essence of vanilla.

Let the milk come to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when almost
cool, beat the yolks of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the
bread and milk.

Bake one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the whites of three eggs and put
meringues. CARAMEL PUDDING. MRS. RATTRAY. Take one coffee cup full
of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over a slow fire and burn it, then
pour it into one and a half pints of milk in a saucepan and place the
latter on the fire to come to a boil, but do not stir it in case
the milk should crack.

Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with a little cold milk,
and when the milk and sugar boil stir the starch in.

Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream.

CARAMEL PUDDING. MRS. W. W. WELCH. One of milk, one pound of brown sugar, one coffee cup of chopped walnuts,
two heaping tablespoons of cornstarch, pinch of salt. Put the milk
in a double boiler, when boiling put in cornstarch dissolved in a
little cold milk; let it cook a few minutes, put in the sugar which
has been previously burnt a little, then add the nuts, stir a few
minutes, flavor with vanilla, put into a mould, and eat with whipped
cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE. MISS LAMPSON. Two cups, four tablespoons of milk,
a pinch of grated cocoanut, yolks of two eggs and whites of four, one
cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little nutmeg.

Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs.

When nearly cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut.

Bake three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold,
with white sugar sifted over it. DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE. MRS.
STOCKING. FRIED CREAM. MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH. Everyone should try
this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream could
be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish for
a dinner course or for lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it
can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs.

The moment the egg touches the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding
which softens to a creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients, one
pint of milk, five ounces of sugar( little more than half a cupful,)
butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls
of corn starch, and one tablespoonful of flour,( a generous half cupful
altogether), stick of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful
of vanilla.

Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil, stir in the sugar little
milk, then add the whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of
the stove for three minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON. The yolks of four beaten eggs, the two latter rubbed smooth with two or three tablespoons
of extra cold milk: stir it over the fire for fully two minutes,
to cook well the starch and flour; take it from the fire, stir in
the beaten yolks of the eggs and return it a few minutes to set them;
now again taking it from the fire remove the cinnamon, stir in the
butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered platter until one third
of an inch high.

When cold and stiff cut the pudding into parallelograms, about inches
long and two inches wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker
crumbs then in eggs( slightly beaten and sweetened) then again in
cracker- crumbs.

Dip these into boiling hot lard( a wire basket should be used if
convenient) and when of fine color, take them out and place them in
the oven for four or five minutes to better soften the pudding.

Sprinkle over pulverized sugar and serve immediately. FEATHER PUDDING. MRS. W. R. DEAN. One tablespoon butter,
one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one cup sweet milk, two
tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour, one and one half teaspoons
flavoring.

Steam one hour.

Eat with sauce.

FIG PUDDING. MRS. THOM. One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine,
two cups bread- crumbs, one cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one
egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three
hours.

GELATINE PUDDING( Pink.) MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the
stove where it will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four
eggs, beaten with four tablespoons sugar pour the mixture which will
be sufficient for two pies of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done. Meanwhile beat the remaining whites
to a stiff froth and stir in four spoonfuls of white sugar. Take the pies
from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each and return them
quickly to the, stir well, let it just come to the boil, then add
the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar and a dessert
spoon vanilla.

Turn into a mould and let it scant tea- spoon of flour, one half
cup raisins; beat cream, sugar, and flour together, lay the raisins
round on the top; bake with two crusts.

PUMPKIN PIE. MISS BEEMER. PASTE. PUDDINGS." The proof of the pudding lies
in cool, then turn out and garnish with whipped cream. This is a
very pretty dish. GRAHAM PUDDING

.
 "Andor, I beg of you, pull yourself together. Someone might
come . . . they must not see you like this."

She put her hand upon his head and passed her cool, white fingers through his hair. The gentle,
motherly gesture soothed him: her words brought him back to his senses. Gradually his sobs
were stilled; he made a great effort to become quite calm, and with a handkerchief wiped the
tears and perspiration from his face.

Then he rose and went back to the table, and sat down on the corner of it as he always liked
to do. The workings of his face showed the effort which he made to keep his excitement and
those awful fears in check.

"You are quite right, Elsa," he said calmly. "Someone might come, and it would not be a very
fine home-coming for Lakatos Andor, would it? to be found crying like an infant into a woman's
petticoats. Why, what would they think? That we had quarrelled, perhaps, on this my first day
at home. God forgive me, I quite lost myself that time, didn't I? It was foolish," he added,
with heartbroken anxiety, "wasn't it, Elsa?"

"Yes, Andor," she said simply.

"It was foolish," he reiterated, still speaking calmly, even though his voice was half-choked
with sobs, "it was foolish to think that you would turn your back on a fellow who had just
lived these past five years for you."

"It isn't that, Andor," she murmured.

"It isn't that?" he repeated dully, and once more the frown of awful puzzlement appeared between
his dark, inquiring eyes. "Then what is it? No, no, Elsa!" he added quickly, seeing that she
threw a quick look of pathetic anxiety upon him, "don't be afraid, my dove. I am not going
to make a fool of myself again. You . . . you are not prepared to marry me just now, perhaps
. . . not just yet?--is that it? . . . You have been angry with me. . . . I am not surprised
at that . . . you never got my letter . . . you thought that I had forgotten you . . . and
you want to get more used to me now that I am back . . . before we are properly tokened. . . .
Is that it, Elsa? . . . I'll have to wait, eh?--till the spring, perhaps . . . till we have
known one another better again . . . then . . . perhaps . . ."

He was speaking jerkily, and always with that burning anxiety lurking in the tone of his voice. " Well,
mother, you make nets to some purpose, for you' ve always a fish
when it' s wanted."

I despatched my breakfast, and as soon as all had been cleared away
by his wife, old Tom, crossing his two timber legs, commenced business,
for it appeared, what I was not aware of, that we had met on a sort
of council- of- war."

Jacob, sit down by me; old woman, bring yourself to an anchor in the
high chair. Tom, sit anywhere, so you sit still.""

And leave my net alone, Tom," cried his mother, in parenthesis.--" You
see, Jacob, the whole long and short of it is this-- I feel my toes more
and more, and flannel' s longer warm.

I can' t tide it any longer, and I think it high time to lie up in ordinary and moor abreast
of the old woman. Now, there' s Tom, in the first place, what' s to
do with he? I think that I' ll build him a wherry, and as I' m free of
the river he can finish his apprenticeship with my name on the boat; but
to build him a wherry would be rather a that heavy pull for me.""

If you mean to build it yourself, I think it will prove a heavy pull
for me," replied Tom."

Silence, Tom; I built you, and God knows you' re light enough.""

And, Tom, leave my net alone," cried his mother."

Father made me light- fingered, mother.""

Ay, and light- hearted too, boy," rejoined the dame, looking fondly
at her son."

Well," continued old Tom," supposing that Tom be provided for in that way; then now I comes
to myself.

I' ve an idea that I can do a good bit of work in patching up boats;
for you see I always was a bit of a carpenter, and I know how the builders
extortionate the poor watermen when there' s a trifle amiss. Now, if
they knew I could do it, they' d all come to me fast enough; but then
there' s a puzzle.

I' ve been thinking this week how I can make them know it. I can' t put out a board and say, Beazeley,
Boat- builder, because I' m no boatbuilder, but still I want a sign.""

Lord, father, haven' t you got one already?" interrupted young Tom;"
you' ve half a boat stuck up there, and that means that you' re half
a boat- builder.""

Silence, Tom, with your frippery; what do you think. Jacob?""

Could you not say,` Boats repaired here?'""

Yes, but that won' t exactly do; they like to employ a builder-- and
there' s the puzzle.""

Not half so puzzling as this net," observed Tom, who had taken up
the needle, unseen by his mother, and begun to work in;" I' ve made
only ten stitches, and six of them are long ones.""

Tom, Tom, you good- for- nothing-- why don' t you let my net alone?"
the argument;" The only hitch," says he," is about the wherry. What do you
say, old woman?"

The old woman shook her head."

As that is the only hitch," said I," I can remove it, for here is
the cried Mrs Beazeley;" now' twill take me as much time to undo ten
stitches as to have made fifty.""

All right, mother.""

No, Tom must, all' s wrong; look at these meshes?""

Well, then, all' s fair, mother."" No, all' s foul, boy; look how
it' s tangled."" Still, I say, all' s fair, mother, for it is but fair
to give the fish one or two chances to get away, and that' s just
what I' ve done; and now, father, I' ll settle your affair to your
own satisfaction, as I have mother' s.""

That will be queer satisfaction, Tom, I guess; but let' s hear what
you have to say.""

Then, father, it seems that you' re no boat- builder, but you want people to fancy that you are-- a'
n' t that the question?""

Why,' tis something like it, Tom, but I do nobody no harm" mugs Mr
Drummond went down, and in a few minutes returned with the sum in
notes and guineas.

I thanked him, and shortly afterwards took my."

Did not young Beazeley tell you I had something for you, Jacob?" said Sarah, as I wished her good-
bye." Yes; what is it?"" You must come and see," replied Sarah, laughing. Thus was a finale to all my
revenge brought."" Certainly not; it' s only the boats which will
suffer.

Now, get a large board, with` Boats built to order, and boats repaired,
by Tom Beazeley.' You know if any man is fool enough to order a boat,
that' s his concern; you didn' t say you' re a boat- builder, although
you have no objection to try your hand.""

What do you say Jacob?" said old Tom, appealing to me."

I think that Tom has given very good advice, and Tom, let go my net again, will you? What
a boy you are! Now touch it again if you dare," and Mrs Beazeley took up a little poker from
the fire- place and shook it at him."

Tom has a head, indeed," said young Tom," but as he has no wish to have it broken, Jacob, lend me your
wherry for half- an- hour, and I' ll be off."

I assented, and Tom, first tossing the cat upon his mother' s back,
made his escape, crying:" Lord, Molly, what a fish--" as the animal
fixed in its claws to save herself from falling, making Mrs Beazeley
roar out and vow vengeance, while old Tom and I could not refrain
from laughter.

After Tom' s departure the conversation was renewed, and everything
was finally arranged between old Tom and his wife, except the building
of the wherry, at which the old woman shook her head.

The debate would
spell be too long, and not sufficiently interesting to detail; one part,
however, I must make the reader acquainted with. After entering into
all the arrangements of the house, Mrs Beazeley took me upstairs
to show me the rooms, which were very neat and clean.

I came down with her, and old Tom said," Did the old woman show you
the room with the white curtains, Jacob?"" Yes," replied I," and a very
nice one it is."" Well, Jacob, there' s nothing sure in this world.

You' re well off at present, and` leave well alone' is a good motto;
but recollect this, that room is for you when you want it, and everything
else we can share with you.

It' s
offered freely, and you will accept it the same. Is it not, old lady?""
Yes, that it is, Jacob; but may you do better-- if not, I' ll be
your mother for want of a better."

I was moved with the kindness of the old couple; the more so as I did
not know what I had done to deserve it. this wherry-- what do you
say, old woman?""

What will it cost?" replied she, gravely."

Cost; let me see-- a good wherry, with sculls and oars, will be a matter
of thirty pounds." The old woman screwed up her mouth, shook her head,
and then walked away to prepare for dinner." I think she could muster
the blunt, Jacob, but she don' t like to part with it.

Tom must coax her. I wish he hadn' t shied the cat at her.

He' s too full of fun."

As old Beazeley finished, I perceived a wherry pulling in with some
the ladies.

I looked attentively, recognised my own boat, and Tom pulling. In
a minute more they were at the hard, and who, to my astonishment,
were there seated, but Mrs Drummond and Sarah.

As Tom got out of the boat and held it steady against the hard, he called
to me; I could not do otherwise than go and assist them out; and
once more did I touch the hands of those whom I never thought to meet
again.

Mrs Drummond retained my hand a short time after she landed, saying,"
We are friends, Jacob, are we not!""

Oh, yes, madam," replied I, much moved, in a faltering voice." I shall not
ask that problem," said Sarah, gaily," for we parted friends."

And as I recalled to mind her affectionate behaviour, I pressed her
hand, and the tears glistened in my eyes as I looked into her sweet
face.

As I afterwards discovered, this was an arranged plan with old and young Tom,
to bring about a meeting without my knowledge.

Mrs Beazeley courtesied and stroked her apron-- smiled at the ladies,
looked very cat- ish at Tom, showed the ladies into, after your pull
in the, boat, you wouldn' t like to have a pull at the brandy bottle?""

No," replied Mrs Drummond, smiling;" but I should be obliged for a glass
of water to be able to tell how you got so large a sum."" Jacob has some reason
for not telling, missus, depend upon it; mayhap Mr Turnbull, or whoever
gave it to him, told him to hold his tongue."

But this answer would not satisfy Mrs Beazeley, who declared she would
not. Will you get me one I would follow it."" Ah! Tom has a head," said
Mrs Beazeley, fondly.", Jacob?" I hastened to comply, and Mrs Drummond
entered into conversation with Mrs Beazeley.

Sarah looked at me, and went to the door, turning back as inviting me
to follow.

I did so, and we soon found ourselves seated on the bench in the
old boat."

Jacob," said she, looking earnestly at me," you surely will be friends
with my parent?"

I think I should have shaken my head, but she laid an emphasis on my, which
the little gipsy knew would have its effect. All my, all my pride,
all my sense of injury vanished before the mild, beautiful eyes of
Sarah, and I replied hastily," Yes, Miss Sarah, I can refuse you
nothing.""

Why Miss, Jacob?"" I am a waterman, and you are much above me."" That
is your own fault; but say no more about it."" I must say something
more, which is this: do not attempt to make me leave my present employment;
I am happy, because I am independent; and that I will, if possible,
be for the future.""

Any one can pull an oar, Jacob."" Very true, Miss Sarah, and is under no obligation to any one by
so earning his livelihood. works for all and is paid for all."" Will you come and see us, Jacob? Come
to- morrow-- now do-- promise me.

Will you refuse your old playmate, Jacob?"" I wish you would not ask
that.""

How then can you say that you are friends with my father?

I will not believe you unless you promise to come."" Sarah," replied
I, earnestly," I will come; and to prove to you that we are friends,
I will ask a favour of him.""

Oh, Jacob, this is kind indeed," cried Sarah, with her eyes swimming with
tears." You have made me so-- so very happy!" The meeting with Sarah
humanised me, and every feeling of revenge was chased from my memory.

Mrs Drummond joined us soon after, and proposed to return." And Jacob will
pull us back," cried Sarah."

Come, sir, look after your fare, in both senses. Since you will be
a waterman, you shall work." I laughed and handed them to the boat.

Tom took the other oar, and we were soon at the steps close to their
house." Mamma, we ought to give these poor fellows something to
drink; they' ve worked very hard," said Sarah, mocking."

Come up, my good men."

I hesitated." Nay, Jacob, if tomorrow why not to- day?

The sooner these things are over the better."

I felt the truth of this observation, and followed her. In a few minutes I was again in that parlour
in which I had been dismissed, and in which affectionate girl burst
into tears on my shoulder, as I held the handle of the door.

I looked at it, and looked at Sarah.

Mrs Drummond had gone out of the room to let Mr Drummond know that
I had come."

How
kind you were, Sarah!" said I."

Yes, but kind people are cross sometimes, and so am I-- and so was--"
Mr Drummond came in, and stopped her."

Jacob, I am glad to see you again in my house; I was deceived by
appearances, and did you injustice."

How true is the observation of the wise man, that a soft word turneth away anger; that Mr Drummond
should personally acknowledge that he was wrong to me-- that he should
in confess it-- every feeling of resentment was gone, and others crowded
in their place.

I recollected how he had protected the orphan-- how he had provided him with instruction-- how he
had made his house a home to me-- Old Tom gave me a hearty squeeze
of the hand, and then continued--"

But about how he had tried to bring me forward under his own protection
I recollected-- which, alas!

I never should have forgotten-- that he had treated me for years
with kindness and affection, all of which had been obliterated from
my memory by one single act of injustice.

I felt that I was a culprit, and burst into tears; and Sarah, as before, cried in sympathy."
I beg your pardon, Mr Drummond," said I, as soon as I could speak;" I have
been very wrong in being so revengeful after so much kindness from
you.""

We both have been wrong-- but say no more on the subject, Jacob; I have an order to give, and then
I will come up to you again" and Mr Drummond quitted the room." You dear, when Mr Drummond re- entered
the room, and shook me by the hand with a warmth which made me more
ashamed of my conduct towards him.

The conversation became general, but still rather embarrassed, when Sarah
whispered to me"

What
is the favour you would ask of my father?" I had forgotten it at the moment, but I immediately
told him that I would be obliged if he would allow me to have a part
of the money belonging to, me which he held in his; possession."

That I will, with pleasure, and without asking what you intend to do with it, Jacob. How much
do you require?"" Thirty pounds, the house, where old Tom assisted to do the honours after
his own fashion, by asking Mrs Drummond if she would like to whet her whistle after her pull.
Mrs Drummond looked round to me for explanation, but young Tom thought proper to be interpreter."
Father wants to know, if you please, ma' am, whether if there is
so much. about by a little girl of fifteen years old, with large dark
eyes.

Tom had taken his glass of grog below, and was waiting for me at
the steps.

We shoved off, and returned to his father' s house, where dinner was just ready. After dinner old Tom
recommenced money for the wherry, which I make a present to Tom," and I put the money into young
Tom' s hand. Tom counted it out before his father and mother, to their astonishment." You are a good
fellow, Jacob," said Tom;" but I say, do you recollect Wimbledon Common?""
What then?" replied I."

Only Jerry Abershaw, that' s all."" Do not be afraid, Tom, it is honestly mine."" But how did you
get it, Jacob," said old Tom It may appear strange, but, impelled by a wish to serve my friends,
I had asked for the money which I knew belonged to me, but never thought of the manner in which
it had been obtained. The question of old Tom recalled everything to my
memory, and I shuddered when I recollected the circumstances attending
it. I was confused, and did not like to reply."

Be satisfied, the money is mine," replied I." Yes, Jacob, but how?"
replied Mrs Beazeley;" surely you ought allow a farthing to be taken
unless she knew how it was obtained."

Tom, give back the money directly," said she, looking at
me suspiciously. Tom laid it on the table before me, without saying a
word." Take it, Tom," said I, colouring up."

I had it from my mother."" From your
mother, Jacob!" said old Tom."

Nay, that could not well
be, if my memory sarves me right. Still it may be."" Deary me, I don'
t like this at all," cried Mrs Beazeley, getting up, and wiping her apron
with a quick motion." Oh, Jacob, that must be-- not the truth." I coloured
up to the tips of my ears at being suspected of falsehood. I looked
round, and saw that even Tom and his father had a melancholy doubt
in their countenances; and certainly my confused appearance would
have caused suspicion in anybody." I little thought," said I, at
last," good boy," said Sarah, coming up to me." Now, I really do love
you." What I might have replied was put a stop to by Mrs Drummond
entering the room.

She made a few inquiries about where I at present
resided, and Sarah was catechising me rather inquisitively about
Mary Stapleton, when I hoped to have so much pleasure in giving, and
to find that I had made you happy in receiving the money, that it
would have proved a source of so much annoyance.

I perceive
that I am suspected of having obtained it improperly, and of not
having told the truth.

That Mrs Beazeley may think so, who
does not know me, is not to be wondered at; but that you," continued
I, turning to old Tom," or you," looking at his son," should suspect
me, is very mortifying; and I did not expect it.

 It was just over
five years ago that he had stood one morning just like this in this little garden; the late
roses had not then ceased to bloom. It was the day before he had to leave Marosfalva in order
to become a soldier, and he had come after Mass to say a private good-bye to the kind priest.

Now it seemed as if those five years were just one long dream--the soldiering, the voyage across
the sea, the two years in a strange, strange land, all culminating in that awful cataclysm
which had for ever robbed him of happiness.

It seemed as if it could not all be true, as if Elsa was even now waiting for him to go out
for a walk under the acacia trees as she had done on that morning five years ago. Even now
he pulled the bell as he had done then, and now--as then--Pater Bonifácius himself came to
the door.

His old housekeeper had already brought the news to the presbytery of Andor's home-coming,
and the old Pater was overjoyed at seeing the lad--now become so strong and so manly. Now, if you
pronounce Hinges in the French fashion, you give forth an exclamation of distressful pain. The name cannot
be shouted from a motor- cycle. It has its difficulties even for the
student of French.

So we
all called it, plainly and bluntly, Hinges, as though it were connected
to a door. The inhabitants noticed this. Thinking that they and their
forefathers had been wrong-- for surely these fine men with red hats
knew better than they-- the English pronunciation spread.

The village became' Ingees, and now only some unfashionable dotards
in Béthune preserve the tradition of the old pronunciation.

It is not only Hinges that has been thus decently attired in British
garb.

Le Cateau is Lee Catòo. Boescheppe is Bo- peep. Ouderdon is Eiderdown.

Béthune
was full of simple pleasures.

First
there were the public baths, cheap and good, and sundry coiffeurs
who were much in demand, for they made you smell sweetly.

Then there was a little blue and white café. The daughter middle of the village, even though
they be standing, as we of the house was well- favoured and played
the piano with some skill.

One of us spent all his spare time at this café in silent adoration-- of
the piano, for his French was exiguous in the extreme. There was a patisserie
crammed full of the most delicious cream- cakes.

The despatch rider who went to Hinges about 3.30 P. M. and did not
return with cakes for tea, found life unpleasant.

Near the station three damsels ruled a tavern. They were friendly
and eager to teach us French.

We
might have left them with a sigh of regret if we had not once arrived as they were eating their midday
meal.

At one time the Germans dropped a few shells into Béthune, but did
little damage.

Bombs fell too. One nearly ended the existence of" Sadders"-- also
known as" Boo." It dropped on the other side of the street; doing
our despatch rider no damage, it slightly wounded Sergeant Croucher
of the Cyclists in a portion of his body that made him swear when
he was classed as a" sitting- up case."

Of all the towns behind the lines-- Béthune, Estaires, Armentières, Bailleul, Poperinghe-- Béthune
is the pleasantest. The people are charming.

There is nothing you cannot buy there. It is clean and well- ordered,
and cheerful in the rain.

I pray that Béthune may survive the war-- that after peace has been declared and Berlin has been
entered, I may spend a week there and much money to the profit of
the people and the satisfaction of myself.

Now I will give some account of our adventures out with the brigades
round La Bassée.

FOOTNOTES:[ 15] The first-- in October and November.[ 16] This is
not an unthinking advertisement.

After despatch
riding from August 16 to February 18 my judgment should be worth
something.

I am firmly convinced that if the Government could have provided all despatch riders with Blackburnes,
the percentage-- at all times small-- of messages undelivered owing to mechanical breakdowns or the
badness of the roads would have been reduced to zero. I have no interest in
the Blackburne Company beyond a sincere admiration of the machine
it produces. CHAPTER IX. ROUND LA BASSÉE.

It had been a melancholy day, full of rain and doubting news.

Those of
us who were not" out" were strolling up and down the platform arranging
the order of cakes from home and trying to gather from the sound of
the gunning and intermittent visits to the Signal Office what was
happening.

Someone had been told that the old 15th was being hard pressed.

Each of us regretted loudly that we had not been attached to it,
though our hearts spoke differently.

Despatch riders have muddled thoughts. There is a longing for the excitement of danger and a very earnest
desire to keep away from it. The C. O. walked on to the platform hurriedly, and
in a minute or two I was off.

It was lucky that the road was covered with unholy grease, that the
light was bad and there was transport on the road-- for it is not
good for a despatch rider to think too much of what is before him.

My instructions were to report to the general and make myself useful. I was also cheerfully informed
that the H. Q. of the 15th were under a robust shell- fire. Little parties of sad- looking
wounded that I passed, the noise of the guns, and the evil dusk heartened
me.

I rode into Festubert, which was full of noise, and, very hastily dismounting,
put my motor- cycle under the cover of an arch and reported to the
general.

He was sitting at a table in the stuffy room of a particularly dirty tavern. At the far end a fat and frightened
woman was crooning to her child. Beside her sat a wrinkled, leathery
old man with bandaged head.

He had wandered into the street, and he had been cut about by shrapnel. The few wits he had
ever possessed were gone, and he gave every few seconds little croaks of hate. Three telephone operators
were working with strained faces at their highest speed.

The windows had been smashed by shrapnel, and bits of glass and things crunched
under foot. The room was full of noises-- the crackle of the telephones, the
crooning of the woman, the croak of the wounded old man, the clear
and incisive tones of the general and his brigade- major, the rattle
of not too distant rifles, the booming of guns and occasionally the
terrific, overwhelming crash of a shell bursting in the village.

I was given a glass of wine. Cadell, the Brigade Signal Officer, and the Veterinary
Officer, came up to me and talked cheerfully in whispered tones
about our friends. There was the sharp cry of shrapnel in the street
and a sudden rattle against the whole house. The woman and child fled somewhere
through a door, followed feebly by the old man. The brigade- major persuaded
the general to work in some less unhealthy. The telephone operators moved.
A moment' s delay as the general endeavoured to persuade the brigade-
major to go first, and we found ourselves under a stalwart arch that
led into the courtyard of the tavern.

We lit pipes and cigarettes. The crashes of bursting shells grew more frequent,
and the general remarked in a dry and injured tone--" Their usual little
evening shoot before putting up the shutters, I suppose." But first
the Germans" searched" the village. Now to search a village means
to start at one end of the village and place shells at discreet intervals
until the other end of the village is reached.

It is an unpleasant process for those in the were, in comparatively
good shelter.

We heard the Germans start at the other beginning of the village street. The crashes came nearer and
nearer, until a shell burst with a scream and a thunderous roar just
on our right.

We puffed away at our cigarettes for a second, and a certain despatch
rider wished he were anywhere but in the cursed village of Festubert
by Béthune. There was another scream and overwhelming relief.

The next shell burst three houses away on our left. I knocked my pipe out and filled another. The Germans
finished their little evening shoot. We marched back very slowly in the darkness to 1910 Farm.
This farm was neither, who reported his arrival with 200 reinforcements for the Cheshires, a pleasant
but irritating addition. The situation was further complicated by the general' s discovery that
M---- was senior to the officer then in command of the Cheshires.

Poor M---- was not left long in command.

A fortnight later the Germans broke through and over the Cheshires, and M---- died where a commanding
officer should. From 1910 Farm I had one good ride to the battalions, through Festubert and along
to the savoury nor safe. It was built round a courtyard which consisted
of a gigantic hole crammed with manure in all the stages of unpleasant
putrefaction.

One side is a barn; two sides consist of stables, and the third is
the house inhabited not only by us but by an incredibly filthy and
stinking old woman who was continually troubling the general because
some months ago a French cuirassier took one of her chickens.

The day after we arrived at this farm I had few despatches to take,
so I wrote to Robert.

Here is some of the letter and bits of other letters I wrote during the
following days.

They will give you an idea of our state of mind:[ 17] If you want something
of the dramatic-- I am writing in a farm under shrapnel fire, smoking
a pipe that was broken by a shell.

For true effect I suppose I should not tell you that the shrapnel is bursting
about fifty yards the other side of the house, that I am in a room
lying on the floor, and consequently that, so long as they go on firing
shrapnel, I am perfectly safe.

It' s the dismallest of places.

Two miles farther back the heavies are banging away over our heads. There
are a couple of batteries near the farm.

Two miles along the road the four battalions of our brigade are holding
on for dear life in their trenches. The country is open plough, with little
clumps of trees, sparse hedges, and isolated cottages giving a precarious
cover.

It' s all very damp and miserable, for it was raining hard last night and the day before. I am
in a little bare room with the floor covered with straw. Two telegraph operators are making that infernal
jerky clicking sound I have begun so to hate.

Half a dozen men of the signal staff are lying about the floor looking at week- old papers. In the
next room I can hear the general, seated at a table and intent on his map,
talking to an officer that has just come from the firing line.

Outside the window a gun is making a fiendish row, shaking the whole
house.

Occasionally there is a bit of a rattle-- that' s shrapnel bullets
falling on the tiles of an outhouse.

If you came out you might probably find this exhilarating. I have
just had a talk with our mutual friend Cadell, the Signal Officer
of this brigade, and we have decided that we are fed up with it. For
one thing-- after two months' experience of shell fire the sound
of a shell bursting within measurable distance makes you start and
shiver for a moment-- reflex action of the nerves.

That is annoying. We both decided we would willingly change places with you and
take a turn at defending your doubtless excellently executed trenches
at Liberton.

The line to
the----[ 18] has just gone. It' s almost certain death to relay it in the day-
time. Cadell and his men are discussing the chances while somebody
else has started a musical- box.

A man has gone out; I wonder if he will come back. The rest of the men
have gone to sleep again.

That gun outside the window is getting on my nerves. Well, well!

The shrapnel fire appears to have stopped for the present. No, there' s a couple
together. If they fire over this farm I hope they don' t send me back to
D. H. Q. Do you know what I long for more than anything else? A clean,
unhurried breakfast with spotless napery and shining silver and porridge
and kippers.

I don' t think these long, lazy after- breakfast hours at Oxford were wasted. They are a memory
and a hope out here. The shrapnel is getting nearer and more frequent.
We are hoping it will kill some chickens in the courtyard. The laws against
looting are so strict. What an excellent musical- box, playing quite
a good imitation of Cavalleria Rusticana.

I guess we shall have to move soon. Too many shells. Too dark to write any more---- After all, quite the most important
things out here are a fine meal and a good bath. If you consider the vast area of the war the facts that
we have lost two guns or advanced five miles are of very little importance.
War, making one realise the hopeless insignificance of the individual, creates
in one such an immense regard for self, that so long as one does
well it matters little if four officers have been killed reconnoitring
or some wounded have had to be left under an abandoned gun all the
enemy' s lines.

You never know how soon they may be yours. night. I started with an
immense interest in tactics. This has nearly all left me and I remain
a more or less efficient despatch- carrying animal-- a part of a
machine realising the hopeless, enormous size of the machine.

The infantry officer after two months of modern war is a curious phenomenon.[
19] He is probably one of three survivors of an original twenty- eight.
He is not frightened of being killed; he has forgotten to think about
it. But there is a sort of reflex fright. He becomes either cautious
and liable to sudden panics, or very rash indeed, or absolutely mechanical
in his actions.

The first state means the approach of a nervous breakdown, the second
a near death.

There are very few, indeed, who retain a nervous balance and a calm judgment.
And all have a harsh frightened voice shoot at where we thought the
German trenches might be.

The Germans unaccountably retreated, and yesterday when we advanced.

If you came suddenly out here, you would think they were all mortally
afraid.

But it is only giving orders for hours together under a heavy fire. Battle noises are terrific. At the present
moment a howitzer is going strong behind this, and the concussion is tremendous. The noise is like dropping
a traction- engine on a huge tin tray. A shell passing away from you over your head is like the
loud crackling of a newspaper close to your ear.

It makes a sort of deep reverberating crackle in the air, gradually lessening, until there is a dull
boom, and a mile or so away you see a thick little get cloud of white
smoke in the air or a pear- shaped cloud of grey- black smoke on the
ground.

Coming towards you a shell makes a cutting, swishing note, gradually
getting higher and higher, louder and louder.

There is a longer note one instant and then it ceases. Shrapnel bursting
close to you has the worst sound.

It is almost funny in a village that is being shelled. Things simply disappear. You are standing in
an archway a little back from the road-- a shriek of shrapnel. The windows are broken and the tiles rush
clattering into the street, while little bullets and bits of shell
jump like red- hot devils from side to side of the street, ricochetting until
their force is spent. Or a deeper bang, a crash, and a whole house tumbles
down. 3/ 4- hour later.-- Curious life this.

Just after I had finished the last sentence, I was called out to take a message to
a battery telling them to shell a certain village. Here am I wandering
out, taking orders for the complete destruction of a village and
probably for the death of a couple of hundred men[ 20] without a thought,
except that the roads are very greasy and that lunch time is near.

Again, yesterday, I put our Heavies in action, and in a quarter of an hour a fine
old church, with what appeared from the distance a magnificent tower,
was nothing but a grotesque heap of ruins. The Germans were loopholing
it for defence.

Oh the waste, the utter damnable waste of everything out here-- men, horses, buildings, cars, everything.
Those who talk about war being a salutary discipline are those who remain at home. In a modern war there
is little room for picturesque gallantry or picture- book heroism. We are all either animals or machines,
with little gained except our emotions dulled and brutalised and nightmare flashes of scenes that cannot
be written about because they are unbelievable.

I wonder what difference you will find in us when we come home---- Do you know what a night scare
is? In our last H. Q. we were all dining when suddenly there was a terrific outburst of rifle- fire from our
lines. We went out into the road that passes the farm and stood there in the pitch darkness, wondering. The
fire increased in intensity until every soldier within five miles seemed
to be revelling in a lunatic succession of" mad minutes." Was it a
heavy attack concluded on our lines? Soon pom- poms joined in sharp,
heavy taps-- and machine guns.

The lines
to the battalions were at the moment working feebly, and what the operators
could get through was scarcely intelligible. Ammunition limbers
were hurried up, and I stood ready to dart anywhere. For twenty minutes
the rifle- fire seemed to grow untamed and wilder.

At last stretcher- bearers came in with a few wounded and reported that
we seemed to be holding our own.

Satisfactory so far. Then there were great flashes of shrapnel over
our lines; that comforted us, for if your troops are advancing you
don' t fire shrapnel over The firing soon died down until we heard
nothing but little desultory bursts.

Finally an orderly came-- the Germans had half- heartedly charged our
trenches but had been driven off with loss. We returned to the farm
and found that in the few minutes we had been outside everything
had been packed and half- frightened men were standing about for orders.

    

The explanation of it all came later and was simple enough.

    

The French, without letting us know, had attacked the Germans on our right, and the Germans to keep
us engaged had made a feint attack upon us. So we went back to dinner. In modern war the infantryman hasn'
t much of a chance. Strategy nowadays consists in arranging for the mutual slaughter of infantry by
the opposing guns, each general trusting that his guns will do the greater
slaughter. And half gunnery is luck.

The day before yesterday we had a little afternoon we found the trenches
crammed full of dead. By a combination of intelligent anticipation
and good luck we had hit them exactly---- From these letters you
will be able to gather what mood we were in and something of what
the brigade despatch rider was doing.

After the first day the Germans ceased shrapnelling the fields round
the farm and left us nearly in peace.

There I met Major Ballard, commanding the 15th Artillery Brigade, one of the finest officers of my acquaintance,
and Captain Frost, the sole remaining officer of the Cheshires. He was charming
to me; I was particularly grateful for the loan of a razor, for my own
had disappeared and there were no despatch riders handy from whom
I could borrow.

Talking of the Cheshires reminds me of a story illustrating the troubles of a brigadier. The general was
dining calmly one night after having arranged an attack. All orders had been sent out. Everything was complete and
ready.

Suddenly there was a knock at the door and in walked Captain M---- Cuinchy bridge. For me it was
interesting because it was one of the few times I had ridden just
behind our trenches, which at the moment were just north of the road
and were occupied by the Bedfords. In a day or two we returned to Festubert,
and Cadell gave me a shake- down on a mattress in his billet-- gloriously
comfortable.

The room
was a little draughty because the fuse of a shrapnel had gone right through
the door and the fireplace opposite. Except for a peppering on the walls
and some broken glass the house was not damaged; we almost laughed
at the father and mother and daughter who, returning while we were
there, wept because their home had been touched.

 But Andor, who had learned more than his native
Hungarian during his wanderings abroad, heard these sneering remarks, and hated the girl for
speaking them, and Béla for the loud laugh with which he greeted each sally.

Now she held out her small, thin hand to Elsa.

"Your good health, my dear Elsa!" she said indifferently.

After an obvious moment of hesitation, Elsa put her toil-worn, shapely little hand into the
gloved one for an instant and quickly withdrew it again. There was a second or two of silence.
Klara did not move: she was obviously waiting for the invitation which had been extended to
everyone else.

A little nervously she began toying with her parasol.

"The glass is going up; you will have fine weather for your wedding to-morrow," she said more
pointedly.

"I hope so," said Elsa softly.

Another awkward pause. Andor, who stood in the doorway watching the little scene, saw that
Béla was digging his teeth into his underlip, and that his one eye had a sinister gleam in
it as it wandered from one girl to the other.

"May the devil! . . ." began Klara roughly, whose temper quickly got the better of her airs
and graces. "What kind of flea has bitten your bride, Béla, I should like to know?"

"Flea?" said Béla with an oath, which he did not even attempt to suppress. "Flea? No kind of
a flea, I hope. . . . Look here, my dove," he added, turning to Elsa suddenly, "you seem to
be forgetting your duties--have you gone to sleep these last five minutes?--or can't you see
that Klara is waiting."

"I can see that Klara is waiting," replied Elsa calmly, "but I don't know what she can be waiting
for."

She was as white as the linen of her shift, and little beads of sweat stood out at the roots
of her hair. Andor, whose love for her made him clear-sighted and keen, saw the look of obstinacy
which had crept round her mouth--the sudden obstinacy of the meek, which nothing can move.
He alone could see what this sudden obstinacy meant to her, whose natural instincts were those
of duty and of obedience. She suffered terribly at this moment, both mentally and physically;
the moisture of her forehead showed that she suffered.

But she had nerved herself up for this ordeal: the crushed worm was turning on the cruel foot
that had trodden it for so long. In other words,
he has part added to the unscientific history of the Negro, which has hitherto
appeared in the and so- called text books on Negro history, facts culled from sources
but so improperly used as not to develop the subject.

Parents first and husbands afterwards are masterful tyrants in this part of the world; the
woman's place is to obey; the Oriental conception of man's supremacy still reigns paramount,
especially in the country. Elsa knew all this, and was ready for the chastisement--either moral,
mental or even physical--which would surely overtake her, if not to-day, then certainly after
to-morrow.

"You don't know what Klara is waiting for?" asked Béla, with an evil sneer; "why, my dove,
you must be dreaming. Klara won't come to our church, of course, but she would like to come
to the ball presently, and to-morrow to our wedding feast."

A second or perhaps less went by while Elsa passed her tongue over her parched lips; then she
said slowly:

"Since Klara does not go to our church, Béla, I don't think that she can possibly want to come
to our wedding feast."

Béla swore a loud and angry oath, and Andor, who was closely watching each player in this moving
little drama, saw that Klara's olive skin had taken on a greenish hue, and that her gloved
hands fastened almost convulsively over the handle of her parasol. 

Select round tomatoes of equal size; peel and the stem end. Place the tomatoes on the ice till
shortly before serving; then fill with celery that has been chopped fine
and mixed with mayonnaise.

Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a the dish further by
placing the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley on top of each tomato.
Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers.

Be generous with the filling. Use plenty of the mayonnaise and celery
and fill tomatoes to the top. dish DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs( well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar(
scant) one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter( melted).

Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly.

Set in kettle of boiling water and stir till it thickens,( about four minutes), when ready to use it
add two tablespoons cream SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE. For twenty four slices of bread and butter take two small
tomatoes, one small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad
oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt.

Shred all the salad finely.

Mix well with the dressing and put a little on half the bread and
butter.

Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly. SALAD DRESSING
WITHOUT OIL. MRS. GILMOUR. The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour,
one half egg spoon of mustard, one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch
of salt, a little pepper.

One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar. SALAD DRESSING
FOR TOMATOES. MRS. A. J. ELLIOT ten. Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet
milk, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons
of made mustard, a dash of sugar and cayenne, and four eggs.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers.

Garnish dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on the eggs
well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly,
and stir all the time.

Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when
cold add the mustard.-- Prepared mustard is made as follows: two tablespoons
mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt, enough boiling
water to mix.

Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use.

The above recipe is also good for chicken.

Put the eggs in boiling water. PRESERVING powder, steam three hours.
GELATINE PUDDING( Pink.) MRS. W. R. DEAN. Put one ounce pink gelatine
and one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove where it will not get
hot; when dissolved add yolks of four eggs, beaten with four tablespoons
sugar, stir well, let it just come to the boil, then add the whites
well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar and EGGS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.( Which keeps them from June to June.) Half
a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of water added by degrees,
two and one half gallons the first day, the rest next, then add one
half gallon coarse salt, stir two or three times a day for three days,
after this drop in four eggs gently.

To test the strength of the lime- water drop in an egg that you know to be fresh, and if it floats
the lime is too strong, add another gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.
CURÉE EGGS. MISS MITCHELL. Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn
butter not too thick, flavor with curée powder. Place your eggs on a side dish,
pour your curée round and finish with parsley: makes a pretty lunch dish.
POACHED EGGS. Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy
paste.

After now poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle
finely chopped parsley over them.

Garnish the dish with parsley.

ANCHOVY EGGS.

MADAME J. T. Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two
minutes. Let boil for one hour; cut in two, remove not the yolks and
leave the whites in cold water not to discolor. Pound three anchovies
in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small pinch of pepper, one
shake cayenne, one half teaspoon lemon juice and the yolks of the
eggs.

When pounded smooth put back into the eggs. Sardines can be used instead
of the anchovies. STUFFED EGGS. MRS. W. CLINT. Three eggs, one teaspoon
of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons minced ham.

Boil the eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells, cut lengthwise,
take out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter melted, the
minced and the parsley.

Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs.

Put the two halves together. Serve on shallow dish with the following
white sauce: one tablespoon each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup
milk, one saltspoon pepper. Melt the butter add the flour, then
the milk( gradually) and pepper and salt.

BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE. One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs,
add hot milk, and a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls
semolina in a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all,
salt and pepper to taste.

Bake twenty minutes.

CHEESE OMELET.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON. Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size
of an egg, salt, three tablespoons of fresh cream. OMELET. MISS M'
GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper and salt. Beat the whites
and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley and the flour The yolks of four beaten
eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch of salt: beat the whites
of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add to the above, turn into
a frying pan, until the mixture sets and then put in the oven until
a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES.

CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON. Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful
of flour, one half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper
and butter the size of an egg.

Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin. Cut in strips and
bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven. CHEESE SCALLOP. MISS
FRASER.

Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat the yolks
of three eggs, add one teaspoon of butter, and half a pound of grated
cheese. Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate
brown. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top
and return to the GRACE M' MILLAN.

Allow for each person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese,
one half teaspoonful of butter, one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains
of cayenne.

Cook like custard until smooth.

Spread on toast and serve at once. WELSH RAREBIT. MISS BEEMER. Select
richest and best American cheese,( Canadian will do), the milder the
better, as melting brings out strength. To make five rarebits take one
pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan; add ale( old is best)
enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine glassful
to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted.

Have ready a slice of toast for each rarebit( crusts trimmed); put
a slice on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover
it.

Serve at once.

GOLDEN BUCK A" Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which
is put carefully on top of rarebit.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs( hard boiled),
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons
of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat
into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks of the eggs with a silver spoon
and gradually add half the cream. Place the butter in a granite ware saucepan,
add the flour, let it cook slowly for one minute and then pour in the
balance of the cream and stir until the liquid thickens.

Add the first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of
the eggs sliced, season with cayenne pepper, and salt, add the wine
and serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE. Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour,
stir until smooth, add one cup of cream, let it heat through, then
add one can of lobster. Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup
of Sherry or Port wine, if desired; serve at once on squares of toast.

Canned
chicken or salmon can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of
horse radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top. Serve
in small tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around them and with
oyster biscuits.

CRUSTINE. MRS. A. COOK. Boil the liver of two chickens,( or turkey will do), pound them to a paste
with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy
and a little cayenne.

Serve on hot toast.

Small anchovies whole, laid on top are an improvement.

PIES." Who dare deny the truth, there' s poetry in pie."-- LONGFELLOW.
COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. MR. JOSEPH FLEIG.( Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N.
Y.) Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good
rim on the side and put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut;
fill up with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of
sugar beaten together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg,
with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.-- Beat two eggs very light, and add one cup of sugar,
one tablespoon of melted butter, one small tablespoon annoying of
cornstarch, beat little starch, two- thirds cup sugar, a little salt.

This
makes one pie. MINCE MEAT. MRS. HENRY THOMSON. One pound of suet, one pound
of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one pound sugar, one pound raisins,
one pound currants, two nutmegs, a large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto
of cloves and salt, one half pound of candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well dissolved in a little milk, then add salt and
add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING. MRS. JAMES LAURIE. Mix together two cups of white sugar,
yolks of three eggs, juice of two lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on
the stove to boil and add at once one tea- cup boiling water, stir
smooth, then add two tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little
cold water, and one tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. GEORGE this down to boil with two- thirds of a cup of water
for ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one cup sugar,
the juice of a lemon and butter half the size of an egg, let boil
a few minutes.

Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn- starch and yolk of one egg in half cup milk stir
in the mixture letting it boil until thick. Beat whites of two eggs
into stiff froth for frosting. LEMON PIE. MRS. STRANG. Take two lemons,
three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls white
sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate the rind of one,
stir together the yolks of three eggs and white of one with the sugar,
butter, juice and rind, then one( coffee) cup of sweet cream or milk,
beat all for a minute or two; have ready a plate lined with paste,
into which pour the mixture which will be sufficient for two pies
of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done. Meanwhile beat the remaining whites to a stiff froth and stir in
four spoonfuls of white sugar.

Take the pies from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each
and return them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown.

Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly and cause
the pie to fall when taken out.

PASTRY.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking
powder, one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

MOCK CHERRY PIE. MRS. W. W. HENRY. One cup cranberries cut up, one half
cup of raisins chopped, one half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful vanilla,
one tablespoonful corn- the whites, put in the frying pan, leave
on top of the stove for three minutes and put in the oven for five
minutes.

OMELETTE. MISS MAUD THOMSON. beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one
pint of pie plant, bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites,
with tablespoon sugar over top; return to oven a few moments. RAISIN
PIE. One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples,, four tablespoons
vinegar, one tablespoon cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one
cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.

SOUR CREAM PIE. One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar, scant tea- spoon
of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar, and flour together,
lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two crusts.

PUMPKIN PIE. MISS BEEMER.

PASTE. PUDDINGS."

The proof of the pudding lies in the eating." ALMOND PUDDING MRS. STOCKING.
One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar, one
heaping tablespoon of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk, sugar, and cornstarch
in double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when boiling; pour into pudding
dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and brown in oven, to be scoop
out the seeds from served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when place the following batter on
top: one egg, one tablespoon each of and butter, two tablespoonfuls each
of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, bake forty five
minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M' GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of white
sugar and one third of a cup of butter. Stir together in a dish, pour
on boiling water to make a thick custard; stir in the well beaten
yolks of three eggs, bring to a boil.

Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour
the custard over them.

Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three
eggs well beaten with sugar.

To be eaten cold. BREAD PUDDING. MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread, one layer
of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter.

Continue until bowl is full, put a plate on top and steam for at
least two hours, more will do no harm.

Turn out a few minutes before wanted to let the juice penetrate the bread that was uppermost. COTTAGE PUDDING.
MRS. W. W. HENRY. After rubbing together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon
of butter, add two eggs, and after beating the mixture until light,
add a cupful of milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted flour
and three teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve into the
mixture already made, beat quickly and pour the batter into one large
pudding dish or two small ones.

Sprinkle with sugar bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes or
thirty if there be two.

Serve hot all together, then add one cup of boiling water, cook five
minutes, boiling all the while.

Cook a little longer if set in a basin of hot water, take from the
fire, and add juice of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING smoothed. One quart of milk scalded, two eggs well
beaten, add gradually one cup sugar. With the eggs and sugar mix two
thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping tablespoons grated chocolate
dissolved over hot water, stir into the milk until a soft custard,
add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart
of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one tea cup of sugar, three eggs,
three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence of
vanilla. Let the milk come to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when
almost cool, beat the yolks of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate,
to the bread and milk.

Bake one half hour, slow oven. CRESSMAN. Grate one lemon, put When cool, beat the whites of three eggs
and put meringues. CARAMEL PUDDING. MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over
a slow fire and burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of
milk in a saucepan and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil,
but do not stir it in case the milk should crack.

Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with a little cold milk,
and when the milk and sugar boil stir the starch in.

Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream CARAMEL PUDDING.
MRS. W. W. WELCH. One pint of milk, one pound of brown sugar, one coffee
cup of chopped walnuts, two heaping tablespoons of cornstarch, pinch
of salt. Put the milk in a double boiler, when boiling put in cornstarch
dissolved in a little cold milk; let it cook a few minutes, put in
the sugar which has been previously burnt a little, then add the
nuts, stir a few minutes, flavor with vanilla, put into a mould,
and with whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE. MISS LAMPSON. Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs,
two cups of milk, one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of two eggs
and whites of four, one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of
rose water, a little nutmeg. Scald the milk and beat into this the
cake crumbs.

When nearly cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water
and lastly the cocoanut. Bake three quarters of an hour in a buttered
pudding dish.

Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over it.

DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE. MRS. STOCKING. FRIED CREAM. MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH. Everyone
should try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream
could be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish
for a dinner course or for lunch or tea.

When the pudding is hard, it can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs.

The moment the egg touches the hot lard it hardens and secures flat
dish or plate.

Garnish the pudding which softens to a creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients,
one pint of milk, five ounces of sugar( little more than half a cupful,)
butter the size the of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls
corn starch, and one tablespoonful of flour,( a generous half cupful
altogether), stick of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful
of vanilla.

Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil,
stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over nightmare
the fire for fully two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour;
take it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return
it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove
the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered
oven for a few minutes.

THE CHAFING DISH.

A Relish and a Savory.

WELSH RAREBIT. MISS platter until one third of an inch high. When cold and stiff cut the pudding into parallelograms,
about three inches long and two inches wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker crumbs then in eggs(
slightly beaten and you sweetened) then again in cracker- crumbs.

Dip these into boiling hot lard( a wire basket should be used if
convenient) and when of fine color, take them out and place them in
the oven for four or five minutes to better soften the pudding.

Sprinkle over pulverized sugar and serve immediately.

FEATHER PUDDING. MRS. W. R. DEAN. One tablespoon butter, one cup white
sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking
powder three cups of flour, one and one half teaspoons flavoring.

Steam one hour.

Eat with sauce. FIG PUDDING. MRS. THOM. One cup suet, one half pound figs
cut fine, two cups bread- crumbs, one cup flour, one half cup brown
sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking a dessert
spoon vanilla.

Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and garnish with
whipped cream.

This is a very pretty dish. GRAHAM PUDDING.
 He was educated and unconventional, and though he professed the usual
anti-Semitic views peculiar to his kind, Klara did not believe that these were very genuine.
At any rate, she had reckoned that her fine eyes and provocative ways would tilt successfully
against the man's racial prejudices.

Erös Béla was rich and certainly, up to a point, in love with her. Klara was congratulating
herself on the way she was playing her matrimonial cards, when all her hopes were so suddenly
dashed to the ground.

Béla was going to marry that silly, ignorant peasant girl, and she, Klara, would be left to
marry Leopold after all.

Her anger and humiliation had been very great, and she had battled very persistently and very
ably to regain the prize which she had lost. She knew quite well that, but for the fact that
she belonged to the alien and despised race, Erös Béla would have been only too happy to marry
her. His vanity alone had made him choose Kapus Elsa. He wanted the noted beauty for himself,
because the noted beauty had been courted by so many people, and where so many people had failed
he was proud to succeed.

Nor would he have cared to have it said that he had married a Jewess. Now to this objection it maybe answered, and very satisfactorily,"
Is it then nothing toward convincing us of the truth of the Gospel,
that those whom we love best and reverence most believe it?

Is it against reason to think that they are right, who have considered
the matter most deeply?

Do we not receive what they tell us in other matters, though we cannot
prove the truth of their information; for instance, in matters of
art and science; why then is it irrational to believe them in religion
also?

Have not the wisest and holiest of men been Christians? and have
not unbelievers, on the contrary, been very generally signal instances
of pride, discontent, and profligacy?

Again, are not the principles of unbelief certain to dissolve human
society? and is not this plain fact, candidly considered, enough to
show that unbelief cannot be a right condition of our nature? for
who can believe are Christians, we ask in turn, Why should we not
be Christians? it will be enough to remain where we are, till you
do you never can do-- prove to us for certain, that the Gospel is
not Divine; it is enough for us to be on the side of good men, to
be under the feet of the Saints, to' go our way forth by the footsteps
of the flock, and to feed our kids beside the shepherds' tent[ 1].'"

This would be quite a sufficient answer, had we nothing else to say;
but I will give another, and that in connexion with the text; I will
show you that the most unlearned Christian may have a very real and
substantial argument, an intimate token, of the truth of the Gospel,
quite independent of the authority of his parents and teachers; nay,
that were all the world, even were his teachers, to tell him that
religion was a dream, still he would have a good reason for believing
it true.

This reason, I say, is contained in the text--" I have more understanding
than the aged, because I keep Thy commandments." By obeying the commands
of Scripture, we learn that these commands really come from God; by
trying we make proof; by doing we come to know. Now how comes this
to pass? It happens in several ways. 1. Consider the Bible tells us to be
meek, humble, single- hearted, and teachable.

Now, it is plain that humility and teachableness are qualities of mind
necessary for arriving at the truth in any subject, and in religious
matters as well as others. By obeying Scripture, then, in practising
humility and teachableness, it is evident we are at least in the way
to arrive at the knowledge of God. On the other hand, impatient proud,
self- confident, obstinate men, are generally wrong in the opinions
they form of persons and things. Prejudice and self- conceit blind the
eyes and mislead the judgment, whatever be the subject inquired into.

For instance, how often do men mistake the characters and misconstrue the
actions of others! how often are they deceived in them! how often
do the young form acquaintances injurious to their comfort and good!
how often do men embark in foolish and ruinous schemes! how often
do they squander their money, and destroy their ask, is so frequent
a cause of these many errors as wilfulness and presumption?

The same thing happens also in religious inquiries. When I see a person
hasty and violent, harsh and high- minded, careless of what others
feel, and disdainful of what they think,-- when I see such a one
proceeding to inquire into religious subjects, I am sure beforehand
he cannot go right-- he will not be led into all the truth-- it is
contrary to the nature of things and the experience of the world,
that he should find what he is seeking.

I should say the same were he seeking to find out what to believe
or do in any other matter not religious,-- but especially in any such
important and solemn inquiry; for the fear of the Lord( humbleness,
teachableness, reverence towards Him) is the very beginning of wisdom,
as Solomon tells us; it leads us to think over things modestly and
honestly, to examine patiently, to bear doubt and uncertainty, to
wait perseveringly for an increase of light, to be slow to speak,
and to be deliberate in deciding.

2. Consider, in the next place, that those who are trained carefully according to the precepts of Scripture,
gain an elevation, a delicacy, refinement, and sanctity of mind, which is most necessary for judging
fairly of the truth of Scripture.

A man who loves sin does not wish the Gospel to be true, and therefore
is not a fair judge of it; a mere man of the world, a selfish and covetous
man, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, is, from a sense of interest,
against that Bible which condemns him, and would account that man
indeed a messenger of good tidings of peace who could prove to him
that Christ' s doctrine was not from God.

I do not mean to say that such men necessarily reject the word of God,
as if we could dare to conclude that all who do not reject it are
therefore sure to be not covetous, drunkards, extortioners, and the
like; for it is often a man' s interest not openly to reject it, though
it be against him; and the bulk of men are inconsistent, and have
some good feelings left, even amid their sins and vices, which keep
them from going all lengths.

But, while they still profess to honour, at least they try to pervert
and misinterpret Scripture, and that comes to the same thing.

They try to persuade themselves that Christ will save them, though they
continue in sin; or they wish to believe that future punishment will
not last for ever; or they conceive that their good deeds or habits,
few and miserable as they are at best, will make up for the sins
of which they are too conscious.

Whereas such men as have been taught betimes to work with God their
Saviour-- in ruling their hearts, and curbing their sinful passions,
and changing their wills-- though they are still sinners, have not
within them that treacherous enemy of the truth which misleads the
judgments of irreligious men.

Here, then, are two very good reasons at first sight, why men who obey the Scripture precepts are more
likely to arrive at religious truth, than those who neglect them;
first, because such men are teachable men; secondly, because they are pure
in heart; such shall see God, whereas the proud provoke His anger,
and the carnal are His abhorrence. But to proceed. Consider, moreover,
that those who try to obey God evidently gain a knowledge of themselves
at least; this may be shown to be the first and principal step towards
knowing God.

For let us suppose a child, under God' s blessing, profiting by his teacher'
s guidance, and trying to do his duty and please God. He will perceive that
there is much in him which ought not to be in him. His own natural sense
of right and wrong tells him that peevishness, sullenness, deceit,
and self- will, are tempers and principles of which he has cause
to be ashamed, and he feels that these bad tempers and principles are in his
heart. As he grows older, he will understand this more and more t.
Wishing, then, and striving to deed up to the law of conscience,
he will yet find that, with his utmost efforts, and after his most
earnest prayers, he still falls short of what he knows to be right,
and what he aims at.

Conscience, however, being respected, will become a more powerful
and enlightened guide than before; it will become more refined and
hard to please; and he will understand and perceive more clearly the
distance that exists between his own conduct and thoughts, and perfection.

He will admire and take pleasure in the holy law of God, of which he reads in
Scripture; but he will be humbled withal, as understanding himself to be
a continual transgressor against it. Thus he will learn from experience
the doctrine of original sin, before he knows the actual name of it.

I know that in my flesh dwelleth no good thing[ 3]." The effect of this
experience will be to make him take it for granted, as an elementary
truth, that he cannot gain heaven for himself; to make him feel himself
guilty before God; and to feel, moreover, that even were he admitted
into the Divine presence, yet, till his heart be( so to say) made over
again, he cannot perfectly enjoy God.

This, surely, is the state of self- knowledge;
these are the convictions to which every one is brought on, who
attempts honestly to obey the precepts of God. I do not mean that all
that I have been saying will necessarily pass through his mind, and in
the same order, or that he will be conscious of it, or be able to speak of it,
but that on the whole thus he will feel. When, then, even an unlearned
person thus trained-- from his own heart, from the action of his
mind upon itself, from struggles with self, from an attempt to follow
those impulses of his own nature which he feels to be highest and
noblest, from a vivid natural perception( natural, though cherished
and strengthened by prayer, natural, though unfolded and diversified
by practice, natural, though of that new and second nature which God
the Holy Ghost gives), from an innate, though supernatural perception
of the great vision of Truth which is external to him( a perception
of it, not indeed in its fulness, but in glimpses, and by fits and
seasons, and in its persuasive influences, and through a courageous
following on after it, as a man in the dark might follow after some
dim and distant light)-- I say, when a person thus trained from his
own heart, reads the declarations and promises of the Gospel, are
we to be told that he believes in them merely because he has been
bid believe in them?

Do we not see he has besides this a something in his own breast which
bears a confirming testimony to their truth? He reads that the heart is"
deceitful above all things and desperately wicked[ 4]," and that he inherits
an evil nature from Adam, and that he is still under its power, except
so far as he has been renewed. Here is a mystery; but his own actual
and too bitter experience bears witness to the truth of the declaration;
he feels the mystery of iniquity within him.

He reads, that" without holiness no man shall see the Lord[ 5];" and his own love
of what is true and lovely and pure, approves and embraces the doctrine
as coming from God. He reads, that God is angry at sin, and will punish
the sinner, and that it is a hard matter, nay, an impossibility, for us to
appease His wrath.

Here, again, is a mystery: but here, too, his conscience anticipates
the mystery, and convicts him; his mouth is stopped. And when he goes
on to read that the Son of God has Himself come into the world in our flesh,
and died upon the Cross for us, does he not, amid the awful mysteriousness
of the doctrine, find those words fulfilled in him which that gracious
Saviour uttered," And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw
all men unto more Me"?

He cannot choose but believe in Him.

He says," O Lord, Thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed." Here then, I say, he surely possesses
an evidence perfectly distinct from the authority of superiors and teachers;
like St. Paul, he is in one way not taught of men," but by the revelation
of Jesus Christ[ 6]." Others have but bid him look within, and pray
for God' s grace to be enabled to know himself; and the more he
understands his own heart, the more are the Gospel doctrines recommended to
his reason. He is assured that Christ does not speak of Himself,
but that His word is from God. He is ready, with the Samaritan woman,
to say to all around him," Come, see a man, which told me all things
that ever I did: is not this the Christ[ 7]?"

Or, again, in the words which the Samaritans of the same city used
to the woman after conversing with weak, as well as wicked; generally
know only a little, pervert what they know, assume false principles, and
distort or suppress facts: but were they as accomplished as the very author
of evil, the humblest Christian, armed with sling and stone, and
supported by God' s unseen might, is, as far as his own faith is concerned,
Christ;" Now we believe, not because of thy saying"( not merely on the
authority friends and relatives)," for we have heard Him ourselves,
and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world."

The Bible, then, seems to say,-- God is not a hard master to require belief,
without affording grounds for believing; only follow your own sense of
right, and you will gain from that very obedience to your Maker,
which natural conscience enjoins, a conviction of the truth and power
of that Redeemer whom a supernatural message has revealed; do but
examine your thoughts and doings; do but attempt what you know to
be God' s will, and you will most assuredly be led on into all the
truth: you will recognize the force, meaning, and awful graciousness
of the Gospel Creed; you will bear witness to the truth of one doctrine,
by your own past experience of yourselves; of another, by seeing that
it is suited to your necessity; of a third, by finding it fulfilled
upon your obeying it.

My brethren, it is always reasonable to insist upon these subjects; but
it is peculiarly so in times when a spirit of presumptuous doubting
is in many places abroad.

As many of us as live in the world must expect to hear our faith despised, and our conscientious
obedience ridiculed; we must expect to be taunted and scorned by those
who find it much easier to attack another' s creed than to state their
own. A little learning is a dangerous thing. When men think they know more than
others, they often talk for the sake of talking, or to show their ability(
as they think), their shrewdness and depth; and they speak lightly
of the All- Holy God, to gratify their empty self- conceit and vanity.

And often it answers no purpose to dispute with such persons; for not having been trained up to obey
their conscience, to restrain their passions, and examine their hearts,
they will assent to nothing you can say; they will be questioning
and arguing about every thing; they have no common ground with you,
and when they talk of religion they are like blind persons talking
of colours.

If you urge how great a gift it is to be at peace with God, or of the
arduousness and yet desirableness of perfection, or the beauty of saintliness,
or the dangerousness of the world, or the blessedness of self- control,
or the glory of virginity, or the answers which God gives to prayer,
or the marvellousness and almost miraculousness of His providences,
or the comfort of religion in affliction, or the strength given you
over your passions in the Most Holy Sacrament, such persons understand
you not at all.

They will laugh, they will scoff, at best they will wonder: any how what
you say is no evidence to them. You cannot convince them, because you differ
from them in first principles; it is not that they start from the same point
as you, and afterwards strike off in some wayward direction; but their
course is altogether distinct, they have no point in common with you. For such
persons then you can only pray; God alone can bring down pride,
self- conceit, an arrogant spirit, a presumptuous temper; God alone can dissipate
prejudice; God alone can overcome flesh and blood. Useful as argument
may be for converting a man, in such cases God seldom condescends
to employ it. Yet, let not such vain or ignorant reasoners convert
you to unbelief in great matters or little; let them not persuade you,
that your faith is built on the mere teaching of fallible men; do
not you be ridiculed out of your confidence and hope in Christ. You
may, if you will, have an inward witness arising from obedience:
and though you cannot make them see it, you can see it yourselves,
which is the great thing; and it will be quite sufficient, with God'
s blessing, to keep you stedfast in the way of life.

Lastly, let me remark how dangerous their state is who are content to
take the truths of the Gospel on trust, without caring whether or not
those truths are realized in their own heart and conduct. Such men,
when assailed by ridicule and sophistry, are likely to fall; they have
no root in themselves that we were intended to live in anarchy?

If we have no good reason for believing, at least we have no good reason for disbelieving. If you ask why we;
and let them be quite sure, that should they fall away from the faith,
it will be a slight thing at the last day to plead that subtle arguments
were used against them, that they were altogether unprepared and ignorant,
and that their seducers prevailed over them by the display of some
little cleverness and human knowledge.

The inward witness to the truth lodged in our hearts is a match for
the most learned infidel or sceptic that ever lived: though, to tell
the truth, such men are generally very shallow and a match for them.

And, on the other hand, the most acute of reasoners and most profound
of thinkers, the most instructed in earthly knowledge, is nothing,
except he has also within him the presence of the Spirit of truth.

Human knowledge, though of great power when joined to a pure and humble faith, is of no power when
opposed to it, and, after ail, for the comfort of the individual Christian, it is of little value.
May we, then, all grow in heavenly knowledge, and, with that end, labour
to improve what is already given us, be it more or be it less, knowing that"
he that is faithful in little is faithful also in much," and that"
to him that hath, more shall be given."[ 1] Cant. i. 8.[ 2] John iii.

20.[ 3] Rom. vii. 15, 18, 22, 23.[ 4] Jer. xvii. 9.[ 5] Heb. xii.

14.[ 6] Gal. i. 12.[ 7] John iv. 29.[ 8] Mal. iii. 10. The Prophets were ever ungratefully treated by
the Israelites, they were resisted, their warnings neglected, their good services forgotten. But
there was this difference between the earlier and the later Prophets;
the earlier lived and died in honour among their people,-- in outward honour;
though hated and thwarted by the wicked, they were exalted to high places,
and ruled in the congregation. Moses, for instance, was in trouble
from his people all his life long, but to the end he was their lawgiver
and judge. But in the latter times, the prophets were not only feared
and hated by the enemies of God, but cast out of the vineyard.

As the time approached for the coming of the true Prophet of the Church,
the Son of God, they resembled Him in their earthly fortunes more and more;
and as He was to suffer, so did they.

Moses was a ruler, Jeremiah was an outcast: Samuel was buried in peace,
John the Baptist was beheaded. Of these, Elijah, who lived in the
wilderness, and the hundred prophets whom Obadiah fed by fifty in
a cave, are examples of the wanderers.

And Micaiah, who was appointed the bread of affliction and the water of affliction
by an idolatrous king, is the specimen of those who" had trial of bonds
and imprisonment." Of those who were sawn asunder and slain with the
sword, Isaiah is the chief, who, as tradition goes, was by order of Manasseh,
the son of Hezekiah, sawn asunder with a wooden saw. And of those
who were stoned, none is more famous than Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada,"
who was slain between the temple and the altar[ 3]." But of all the
persecuted prophets Jeremiah is the most eminent; i. e. we know more
of his history, of his imprisonments, his wanderings, and his afflictions.
He may be taken as a representative of the Prophets; and hence it is
that he is an especial type of our Lord and Saviour. All the Prophets
were types of the Great Prophet whose way they were preparing; they
tended towards and spoke of Christ.

In their sufferings they foreshadowed His priesthood, and in their
teaching His prophetical office, and in their miracles His royal power.
The history of Jeremiah, then, as being drawn out in Scripture more
circumstantially worldly prospects!

And what, I than that of the other Prophets, is the most exact type of Christ
among them; that is, next to David, who, of course, was the nearest resemblance
to Him of all, as a sufferer, an inspired teacher, and a king. Jeremiah
comes next to David; I do not say in dignity and privilege, for it was
Elijah who was taken up to heaven, and appeared at the Transfiguration;
nor in inspiration, for to Isaiah one should assign the higher evangelical
gifts; but in typifying Him who came and wept over Jerusalem, and
then was tortured and put to death by those He wept over.

And hence, when our Lord came, while some thought Him Elijah, and others John the Baptist, risen
from the dead, there were others who thought Him Jeremiah. Of Jeremiah,
then, I will now speak, as a specimen of all those Prophets whom St. Paul
sets before us as examples of faith, and St. James as examples of patience.
Jeremiah' s ministry may be summed up in three words, good hope, labour,
disappointment.

It was his privilege to be called to his sacred office from his earliest years. Like Samuel, the first
prophet, he was of the tribe of Levi, dedicated from his birth to
religious services, and favoured with the constant presence and grace
of God." Before I formed thee... This commission was given the year after
Josiah began his reformation. Jeremiah returned for answer," Ah! Lord God!
behold, I cannot speak; for I am a child." He felt the arduousness
of a prophet' s office; the firmness and intrepidity which were required
to speak the words of God.



Then, as she made no reply, and a blush of pleasure gradually suffused her dark skin, lending
it additional charm and giving to her eyes added brilliancy, he continued, more peremptorily
this time:

"At ten o'clock, then--I'll come back. Get rid of as many of these louts by then as you can."

She was only too ready to yield. Not only was she hugely flattered by my lord's attentions,
but she found him excessively attractive. He could make himself very agreeable to a woman if
he chose, and evidently he chose to do so now. Moreover Klara had found by previous experience
that to yield to the young man's varied and varying caprices was always remunerative, and there
was that gold watch which he had once vaguely promised her, and which she knew she could get
out of him if she had the time and opportunity, as she certainly would have to-night if he came.

Count Feri, seeing that she had all but yielded, was preparing to go. Her hand was still in
his, and he was pressing her slender fingers in token of a pledge for this evening.

"At ten o'clock," he whispered again.

"No, no," she protested once more, but this time he must have known that she only did it for
form's sake and really meant to let him have his way. "The neighbours would see you enter,
and there might be a whole lot of people in the tap-room at that hour: one never knows. They
would know by then that my father had gone away and they would talk such scandal about me.
My reputation . . ."

No doubt he felt inclined to ejaculate in his usual manner: "D----n your reputation!" but he
thought better of it, and merely said casually:

"I need not come in by the front door, need I?"

"The back door is always locked," she remarked ingenuously. "My father invariably locks it
himself the last thing at night."

"But since he is going to Kecskemét . . ." he suggested.

"When he has to be away from home for the night he locks the door from the inside and takes
the key away with him."

"Surely there is a duplicate key somewhere? . . ."

"I don't know," she murmured.

"If you don't know, who should?" he remarked, with affected indifference. "Well! I shall have
to make myself heard at the back door--that's all!"

"How?"

"Wouldn't you hear me if I knocked?"

"Not if I were in the tap-room and a lot of customers to attend to."

"Well, then, I should hammer away until you did hear me."

"For that old gossip Rézi to hear you," she protested. "Her cottage is not fifty paces away
from our back door."

"Then it will have to be the front door, after all," he rejoined philosophically.

"No, no!--the neighbours--and perhaps the tap-room full of people."

"But d----n it, Klara," he exclaimed impatiently, "I have made up my mind to come and spend
my last evening with you--and when I have made up my mind to a thing, I am not likely to change
it because of a lot of gossiping peasants, because of old Rézi, or the whole lot of them. So
if you don't want me to come in by the front door, which is open, or to knock at the back door,
which is locked, how am I going to get in?"

"I don't know."

"Well, then, you'll have to find out, my pretty one," he said decisively, "for it has got to
be done somehow, or that gold watch we spoke of the other day will have to go to somebody else.
And you know when I say a thing I mean it. Eh?"

"There is a duplicate key," she whispered shyly, ". . . to the back door, I mean."

"I thought there was," he remarked dryly. "Where is it?"

"In the next room. . . . It hangs on a nail by father's bedside."

"Go and get it, then," he said more impatiently.

"Not now," she urged. "Leopold is looking straight at you and me."

He shrugged his aristocratic shoulders.

"You are not afraid of that monkey?" he said with a laugh.

"Well, no! not exactly afraid. But he is so insanely jealous; one never knows what kind of
mischief he'll get into. *** Soap is the latest article to be placed on the list of absolute
contraband; and it is now more certain than ever that the Germans
will not come out of the War with clean hands.********** THE FAUNA
OF THE FRONT.

VOL.

Serbia will belong to the Serbians.

CHARIVARIA.* of toluoleration."

We have made a poor show of being civilians," is his point;" let'
s try being soldiers for a generation or two." The sympathies of the
in Europe, as fought, could not even exist?'" is the question put,
according to a New York correspondent," by Mr. Gutzon Borglum, the
great American his Balkan pilgrimage is reported to have pleased the
KAISER so much as a steamer- trip on the Danube.*****"

Will you allow me to give a warning to Ford owners who, like myself, jack up to obtain
an easy start.*** Owing to the extraction of benzol and toluol from
gas for the purpose of making high- explosives it is stated that consumers
may have to put up with some decrease in illuminating power.

No one shall accuse us of being Apostles of Culture.

According to the Correspondent of The Daily Mail who described the festivities
at Nish, the King of BULGARIA" has a curious duck- like waddle." Fortunately
there came from the opposite direction an odds- and- end private,
with nothing in his favour except the wearing of the well- known satchel
so much in vogue in Flanders society for the carrying of gas helmets.

We
never saw a man begin a pipe at the wrong end. Here we have another instance
of the fondness of learned men for disputing about purely academic
questions.

150 February 2, 1916.*** An American gentleman, who started to visit
his wife when she was staying with her mother and failed to find her
after audience might be entirely deranged by the discovery that the
elderly villain was an attested patriot while the young and beautiful
hero was either ineligible or a slacker.***"' How many of us realise
that, were it not for America, the War to- day three days' search,
excuses himself on the ground that he had forgotten her maiden name.

The bathroom shall be wash by the servant after bath. The latest information
from the trenches goes to support the maxim that all one requires
to wage war is a bold face and a gas helmet.

In the opinion of its trade- rivals the inscription is superfluous. She is
one of a family of twenty- two, and her father fought with two of her sons at
Waterloo."-- Irish Times.*** Describing the depressed condition of
the laundry trade a witness at the Clerkenwell County Court said,"
We are eight million double collars short every week."

Still the War has its compensations.

It is shrewdly conjectured that they are in the neighbourhood of
the Front.**********" Mrs. Ruth Roberts, of Folkestone, celebrates
the completion of her 103rd year to- day.*** The following notice
was found affixed to a building somewhere near the Front:" SIR OFFICERS,--
Ask the bathroom' s key to the office.

He puts it down to absence of mind; and his mother- in- law is inclined
to agree with him.

Sir Officer without servant shall not have the key."***** THE WATCH
DOGS.

Here, take mine." The idea of having a little weakness was so novel
to the Top- man that it caused him to choke and to be led from the
mess, eventually, in a state of nervous exhaustion.

Well, not quite, perhaps.*** Austrians and Hungarians are said to
be quarrelling as to whether the occupied Serbian territory should
eventually belong to the Monarchy particular interest in the Egyptian
antiquities.

This is believed to be the result of his effort to do the Goose-
or the Kingdom, and the jurists on either side are ransacking the
history of the past for arguments to support their respective cases."

Oh," said he," I don' t allow myself to be put off by a trifle like that.
Or Mr. Winkle when he wrote verses."

Nothing but margarine has entered my door since the War began."--
Dr. C. W. SALEEBY in"

Daily Chronicle." A Top- man honoured our mess the other night.***** After a description of the new lighting
order:--"

The regulations will impose a great were deal of work on the police,
and it is the duty of the public to make it as light as possible."--
Hampshire Observer.

So he wrote a little note on a Buff slip and addressed it, very rightly
of course, to the Top- man but one; and the Top- man but one read
it and passed it very carefully to the Top- man but two; and so, with
that inevitability which is the the hall- mark of the system, it was
passed and passed and passed until it came( in less than a week) to
the office of the ancient Lieutenant on the opposite side of the street.*****
A LONELY LIFE.*****"

In the Continental boat- trains the warning,' Licht linauslehnen,'
has not been removed from the windows.... Occasionally you see that'
Nicht linauslehnen' has been indignantly pasted over."-- Provincial
Paper.

It sounds rather abrupt. MY DEAR CHARLES,-- We' re having a great time
with our new arrival, one of those confounded civilians, who are
only let into the business because the business, in these modern and
highly complicated days, cannot be carried on without them.

XXXIV. Firmly, if respectfully, he refused to comply. At first I kept on telling him that business is one thing
and war is another, but he wouldn' t see it and persisted in doing
and saying and thinking things which were bound to land us in a national
disaster.

Fixing the steel eye of conscious rectitude on his victim, he leant
slightly towards him and very unmistakably shouted at him the one
dread word," GAS!".... Unfortunately for the Commander the subaltern
not only knew what to do next, but also had just the physical strength
remaining in his fingers to start doing it.

Yours ever, HENRY. The Top- man had never been asked to do business
this way before. The man looked like being stony about it, but the Commander
became irresistibly commanding and got the satchel at last. Lux, in fact,
a non lucendo.

And it ran:" Lieutenant So- and- So should be notified that it is
neither necessary nor desirable that he should call personally at
this office to transact his business.

The subaltern, distinctly aware of this amongst his many failings,
Top- men and all persons in any way representing the military system.

So he stepped across to the Top- man' s office, and when the Top- man asked
him, somewhat pointedly, if he had received his note, the Ancient very
genially replied," Yes, thank you," and explained that he had just
looked in personally to acknowledge receipt of same.

The ancient Lieutenant, who wouldn' t hurt anybody' s feelings for
the world, felt that it was up to him to put the matter right.

Under the influence of the latter' s theories he unbent still further. No such
thing; the old gentleman becomes a more ardent militarist every
day; wants to see once for all an end of all lawyer- politicians,
and all so- called" business- men."*** We cannot agree with the actor
in uniform than as a German province in mufti.

Politely but firmly he was requested to part with his satchel as
a temporary loan to his General.

The latter is certainly a little more German than the other.

Under the mellowing influence of our Curried Bully he unbent somewhat and encouraged
the Ancient on his pet subject. You' d expect to hear that the Ancient'
s conversation at mess sculptor." But for its existence we might never
have heard of Mr. GUTZON BORGLUM, the great American sculptor.*** Nothing
in the course of is insubordinate, rebellious, or at least bitterly
sarcastic.

He discoursed upon the true inwardness of the military method of
running an office, pausing at last for the Ancient to say a few words.**********
From an article by Mr. AUSTIN HARRISON in The Sunday Pictorial:--"

A few strange gentlemen attitudinise in Westminster on principle, but
these men would cut capers of principle in any case, like Mr. Snodgrass
when he went skating." There' s many a kind heart behind a Buff slip,
and we all have our little weaknesses."*** Opposing a suggestion
of the Wandsworth Borough Council to discontinue the issue of fiction
from the free libraries, a member of the Women' s Freedom League said
the pointed contrast between( a) overworked Commander, weighed down
with responsibilities, absorbed day and night in momentous matters
of large principle, nevertheless infallible on smallest detail and
now in possession of gas helmet, one, and( b) very junior subaltern,
free to enjoy the open- air irresponsible life of the trenches, neglecting
even that a novel was to a woman what a pipe was to a man.*** In view
of the impending paper- famine a widely- circulated journal announces
its readiness to receive back from the public any parcels of old copies
marked" waste paper."

The car jumped the jack, went over the scotch, knocked me down, ran over me, tore my clothes to rags,
bruised me all over, tore my flesh and broke my collar- bone, and
I think I got off very lightly.

He had progressed some way up the communication trench, when it struck
him that, whereas his recent order had been particularly menacing
to everyone of whatever rank who was discovered there or thereabouts
without a gas helmet, nevertheless he himself was at that moment innocent
of such furniture.

But it is not true that they now refer to England as" The Mummy Country."
That was enough for the Commander; this was essentially one of those privates
to be called" My man," and treated as such.

He says that was all for being passed by as insignificant; the Commander
was all for a scene.

It sounds as if a dreadful quarrel would be raging between the Ancient on one
side and on the other the Top- man, the whole series of under- what'
s wrong with Prussian Militarism is that it is Prussian; to succeed,
the thing has to be run by gentlemen.

He' s a jolly old Lieutenant of about fifty years; he has a concentrated experience of the
world but doesn' t remember having been mixed up in a big European
war before.

Them was his orders.

He has been so thoroughly dealt with elsewhere that I shall leave him on one side,
and confine my few observations to smaller and pleasanter creatures. He
put up with it a dozen times or so, but finally he had to take steps.

Conceive his delight to discover a subaltern, fresh from ablutions,
with no satchel upon him!

Gas helmets always exercise a peculiar fascination for people who inspect
trenches, and the matter was now especially prominent in the mind of
the Commander as he marched along, outwardly appearing to be at his
happiest here, inwardly thanking goodness that his home was elsewhere.

He buckled it on, and the party proceeded, characterising the reluctance
of the private to part with his treasure as almost an exaggerated
sense of obedience to printed orders.

Matters should be put forward by him through the usual course of
correspondence."

Everybody halted, and the air became pregnant with possibilities....
It was nicely calculated speech, leading up gradually to the few small
matters entrusted to him, without same."

And what' s more, Sir," he concluded," I doubt very much whether,
if someone gave you a helmet now, you' d know what to do with it.***
Owing to the Government demand that nothing in the way of unnecessary
expenditure who complains that his manager forbids him to wear his
armlet on the stage.

On the whole he thinks we should find it easier to carry on as a British
Empire should be allowed, it is expected that all paid** It is said
that the Australian and New Zealand soldiers now in London are very
fond of visiting the British Museum, and take a Step while avoiding
the Turkey- Trot.*** The Government is going to close Museums and
Picture- galleries to the public.

It is expected, in view of the good object involved, that the announcement
will be received in a spirit lecturers on War Economy and National
Thrift will be given a week' s notice.( The attendant Brass- hats
liked the" mine," but very discreetly kept their emotions to themselves.)
It was not a peculiarly clean or remarkably well- packed satchel which
the trembling hand of the disgraced subaltern took from the Commander,
and the latter did not intend to let attention dwell too long upon
the grimy details of its exterior.

He had no respect whatever for the Pass Memo., his central and sole
idea being to push along with the elimination of the Bosch.

At home the mouse is regarded with contemptuous annoyance as a******* ON BELLONA' S HEM.*** A correspondent,
describing the recent food riots in Berlin, says that they were chiefly
due to" women who were fed up with the difficulty of providing meals
for their families."*** A suggestion has been made by a Registrar
in Bankruptcy that the Tercentenary of SHAKSPEARE' S death should
be celebrated by the performance in every large town of one of the
Bard' s plays; and some regret has been expressed that anybody should
take advantage of a national celebration to boom his own business.

She seems to have been very young for a mother when these family
dissensions occurred.

It was looking so sympathetically blue.

A few days ago I was doing so as usual with only one scotch.

A very distinguished O. C. went up the other day to inspect the trenches
of his command and to express such views of their faults and the faults of
their inmates as might occur to him from time to time.

Of course
that will not happen to me again."-- The Motor.

Out here it is different, for we are perforce neighbours.

PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

Chief among the fauna of the Front is, of course, the Bosch, a subterranean
animal of unpleasant habits, which is now classed as vermin.

The Commander congratulated him on his very proper attitude, explained
to him the nature of the higher commands and demanded the satchel.

The remaining fauna of the Front are( 1) mice;( 2) rats; with a few
interesting extras, furred and feathered, which deserve more petty
but persevering thief; while the rat commits his grosser depredations
in an atmosphere tinged with horror.

When he wanted something done, he just went to the Top- man of the
department, called him"

I
say," and went straight to the point.*** serious treatment than I can
give them. With the eyes of all upon him( and by this time there had gathered
round quite a nice little crowd, thoroughly conversant with the event
in progress), the subaltern opened the satchel alleged to belong
to the Commander and took from it-- no, Charles, not a gas helmet,
but a pair of socks-- and such socks too!

He will either drink the Scotch first or not have one at all. But here
we share the hospitality be of the underground and meet its freehold
tenants on a level.

At home
one seldom sees a rat or mouse save from above, and to look down upon
anything is invariably to misjudge it. Indeed, we bipeds are in a sense
trespassers upon the domain of the subterranean peoples

.

Before you will have reached the high road your father and I will be on your heels, and either
he or I will strangle you ere you come within sight of my lord's castle."

"You are mad!" she cried. "Or else an idiot."

"Better look for that back-door key," he retorted.

"What has the back-door key to do with it?" she asked sullenly.

"Only this," he replied, "that while that monkey-faced dog of a Christian was whispering to
you just now, I know that the key was hanging on its usual peg, but I heard something about
'supper' and about 'ten o'clock.' May he break his neck, I say, and save me the job. Then he
ordered me out of the room. Oh! I guessed! It is moral truth that both sets us free and demonstrates our
freedom, and that makes harmony possible between the mechanical theory of science and the
teleological conception of philosophy his people. In claiming a place for the autonomous personality
in what appeared to be a mechanical universe, Kant gave voice to some of the deeper yearnings of the age.
The German Enlightenment, the new humanism, mysticism, pietism, and the
faith- philosophy were all interested in the human soul, and unwilling to
sacrifice it to the demands of a rationalistic science or metaphysics.

In seeking to rescue it, the great criticist, piloted by the moral law, steered his course between
the rocks of rationalism, sentimentalism, and scepticism. It was his solution of the controversy
between the head and the heart that influenced Fichte, Schelling, and Schleiermacher. They differed from Kant
and among themselves in many respects, but they all glorified the spirit, Geist, as the living, active
element of reality, and they all rejected the intellect as the source
of ultimate truth. They followed him in his anti- intellectualism, but
they did not avoid, as he did, the attractive doctrine of an inner intuition;
according to them we can somehow grasp the supersensible in an inner
experience which Fichte called intellectual, Schelling artistic, Schleiermacher
religious.

The bankruptcy of the intelligence was overcome in their systems by the discovery of
a faculty that revealed to them the living, dynamic nature of the
universe.

They were all more or less influenced by the romantic currents of the times, seeking with Herder
and Jacobi an approach to the heart of things other than through the categories of logic. Like
Lessing and Goethe, they were also attracted to the pantheistic teaching of Spinoza, though rejecting
its rigid determinism so far as it might affect the human will. They likewise accepted the idea of
development which the leaders of German literature, Lessing, Herder,
and Goethe, had already opposed to the unhistorical Aufklärung, and which
came to play such a prominent part in the great system of Hegel.
Johann Gottlieb Fichte was born in Ramenau, Oberlausitz, May 19, 1762,
the son of a poor weaver. Through the generosity of a nobleman,
the gifted lad was enabled to follow his intellectual bent; after
attending the schools at Meissen and Schulpforta he studied theology
at the universities of Jena, Leipzig, and Wittenberg with the purpose
of entering the ministry.

His poverty frequently compelled him to interrupt his studies by accepting private tutorships in unit,
so that he never succeeded in preparing him self for the examinations. In 1790 he became acquainted with
Kant' s philosophy, which two students had asked him to expound to
them, and to which he now devoted himself with feverish zeal.

It revolutionized his entire mode of thought and determined the course
of his life.

The anonymous publication of his book, Attempt
at a Critique of all Revelation, in 1792, written from the Kantian point
of view and mistaken at first for a work of the great reform of life
as well as of Wissenschaft; he not only taught philosophy, but preached
it, as Kuno Fischer has aptly said.

During the Jena period he laid the foundations for his" Science of Knowledge"(
Wissenschaftslehre) which he presented in numerous works: The Conception
of the Science of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation of the Entire Science
of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation of Natural Rights, 1796; The System
of Ethics, 1798--( all these translated by Kroeger); the two Introductions
to the Science of Knowledge, 1797( trans. by Kroeger in Journal of,
in which Fichte seemed to identify God with the moral world- order,
brought down upon him the charge of atheism, against which he vigorously
defended himself in his Appeal to the Public and a series of other
writings.

Full of indignation over the attitude which his government assumed in the matter, be offered his resignation(
1799) and removed to Berlin, where he presented his Speculative Philosophy).
his The appearance of an article Concerning the Ground of our Belief
in a Divine World- Order, 1798 philosophical notions in popular public
lectures and in writings which were characterized by clearness, force,
and moral earnestness rather than by their systematic form.

There appeared: The Vocation of Man, 1800( translated by Dr. Smith); A
Sun- Clear Statement concerning the Nature of the New Philosophy,
1801( trans. by Kroeger in Journal of Speculative Philosophy); The
Nature of the Scholar, 1806( trans. by Smith); Characteristics of
the Present Age, 1806( trans. by Smith); The Way towards the Blessed
Life, 1806( trans. by Smith).

After the overthrow of Prussia by Napoleon, in 1806, Fichte fled from
Berlin to Königsberg and Sweden, but returned when peace was declared in
1807, and delivered his celebrated Addresses to the German Nation, 1807- 08,
in which he sought to arouse the German people to a consciousness
of their national mission and their duty even while the French army
was still occupying the Prussian capital.

Fichte was appointed professor of philosophy( 1810) in the new University
of Berlin, for which he had been invited to construct a plan and in
the establishment of which he took a lively interest. During the last
period of his life he devoted himself to the development of his thoughts
in systematic form and wrote a number of books; most of these were
published after his death, which occurred January 27, 1814.

Among them we mention: General Outline of the Science of Knowledge,
1810( trans. by Smith); The Facts of Consciousness, 1813; Theory
of the State, published 1820.

The Complete Works, edited by his son, J. H. Fichte, appeared 1843- 46. New
editions of particular works are now appearing. The world for Fichte is
at bottom a spiritual order, the revelation of a self- determining ego
or reason; hence the science of the ego, or reason, the Wissenschaftslehre,
is the key to all knowledge, and we can understand nature and man
only when we have caught the secret of the self- active ego.

Philosophy must, therefore, be Wissenschaftslehre, for in it all
natural and mental sciences find their ultimate roots; they can yield
genuine knowledge only when and in so far as they are based on the
principles of the Science of Knowledge-- mere empirical sciences having
no real cognitive value.

The ego- principle itself, however, without which there could be no knowledge,
cannot be grasped by the ordinary discursive understanding with its
spatial, temporal, and causal categories. Kant is right:- if we were limited
to the scientific intellect, we could never rise above the conception
of a phenomenal order absolutely ruled by the causal law.

But there is another source of knowledge: in an act of inner vision or intellectual intuition, which is itself an
act of freedom, we become conscious of the universal moral purpose; the
law of duty or the categorical imperative commands us the to be free persons. We
cannot refuse to accept this law without abandoning ourselves as persons,
without conceiving ourselves as things, or mere products of nature;
the choice of one' s philosophy, therefore, depends upon what kind
of man one is-- upon one' s values, upon one' s will.

The type of man who is a slave of things, who cannot raise himself out of the causal
mechanism, who is not free, will never be able to conceive otherwise
than as a cog in a wheel. Fichte accepts the ego, or spirit, as the ultimate
and absolute principle, because it alone can give our life worth
and meaning. Thus he grounds his entire philosophy upon a moral imperative
which presents itself to the ego in an inner vision.

He also tells us that we can become immediately aware of the pure activity
of the ego, of our free action, in a similar act of intellectual intuition.
But we cannot know this free act unless we perform it ourselves;
no one can understand the idealistic philosophy who is not free; hence philosophy
begins with an act of freedom-- im Anfang war die Tat. In order that
we may rise to free action, opposition is needed, and this we get
in the spatial- temporal world of phenomena, or nature, which the
ego creates for itself in order to have resistance to overcome.

Fichte conceives of nature as" the material of our duty," as the obstacle
against which the ego can exercise its freedom. There could be no free
action without something to act upon, and there could be no purposive
action without a world in which everything happens according to law;
and such a causal world we have in our phenomenal order, which is
the product of the absolute spiritual principle.

By the ego Fichte did not mean the subjective ego, the particular individual
self with all its idiosyncrasies, but the universal ego, the reason
that manifests itself in all conscious individuals as universal and
necessary truth.

In his earlier period he did not define his thought very carefully, but in time the absolute
ego came to be conceived as the principle of all living and consciousness, as universal
life, and ultimately identified with God. His philosophy is, therefore,
not subjective idealism, although it was so misinterpreted, but objective
idealism; nature is not the creation of the particular individual
ego, but the phenomenal expression, or reflection, in the subject
of the universal spiritual principle.

Upon such an idealistic world- view Fichte based. The scientific
understanding would plunge us into determinism and agnosticism; from
these, faith in the moral law alone can deliver us. In this sense
Kant destroyed knowledge to make room for a rational faith in a supersensible
world, to save the independence and dignity of the self and the spiritual
values of the ethical teachings through which he exercised a lasting
influence upon the German people and the history of human thought.

The universal ego is a moral ego, an ego with an ethical purpose, that realizes
itself in nature and in man; it is, therefore, the vocation of man
to obey the voice of duty and to free himself from the bondage of
nature, to be a person, not a thing, to coöperate in the realization
of the eternal purpose which is working itself out in the history
of humanity, to sacrifice himself for the ideal of freedom.

Every individual has his particular place in which to labor for the social whole;
how to do it, his conscience will tell him without fail. And so,
too, the German people has its peculiar place in civilization, its
unique contribution to make in the struggle of the human race for
the development of free personality.

It is Germany' s mission criticist, won him fame and a professorship
at Jena( 1794). Here, in the intellectual centre of Germany, Fichte
became the eloquent exponent of the new idealism, which aimed at the
to regain its nationality, in order that it may take the philosophical
leadership in the work of civilization, and to establish a State based
upon personal liberty, a veritable kingdom of justice, such as has
never appeared on earth, which shall realize freedom based upon the
equality of all who bear the human form.

The Fichtean philosophy holds the mirror up to its age. With the Enlightenment
it glorifies reason, the free personality, nationality, humanity, civilization,
and progress; in this regard it expresses the spirit of all modern
philosophy.

It goes beyond the Aufklärung in emphasizing the living, moving, developing
nature of reality; for it, life and consciousness constitute the essence
of things, and universal life reveals itself in a progressive history
of mankind.

Moreover, the dynamic spiritual process cannot be comprehended by conceptual
thought, by the categories of a rationalistic science and philosophy,
but only by itself, by the living experience of a free agent. In the
categorical imperative, and not in logical reasonings, the individual
becomes aware of his destiny; in the sense of duty, the love of truth,
loyalty to country, respect for the rights of man, and reverence for
ideals, spirit speaks to spirit and man glimpses the eternal.

Among the elements in this idealism that appealed to the Romanticists
were its anti- intellectualism, its intuition, the high value it placed upon the personality,
its historical viewpoint, and its faith in the uniqueness of German
culture. They welcomed the Wissenschaftslehre as a valuable ally, and
exaggerated those features of it which seemed to chime with their
own views.

The ego which Fichte conceives as universal reason becomes for them
the subjective empirical self, the unique personality, in which the
unconscious, spontaneous, impulsive, instinctive phase constitutes
the original element, the more extravagant among them transforming
the rational moral ego into a romantic ego, an ego full of mystery
and caprice, and even a lawless ego.

Such an ego is read into nature; for, filled with occult magic forces, nature
can be understood only by the sympathetic divining insight of the
poetic genius.

And so, too, authority and tradition, as representing the instinctive
and historical side of social life, come into their own again. Fichte' s
chief interest was centred upon the ego; nature he regarded as a product
of the absolute ego in the individual consciousness, intended as
a necessary obstacle for the free will.

Without opposition the self cannot act; without overcoming resistance it cannot
become free. In order to make free action possible, to enable the ego
to realize its ends, nature must be what it is, an order ruled by the
iron law of causality.

This cheerless conception of nature-- which, however, was not Fichte' XI s last word on the subject,
since he afterward came to conceive it as the revelation of universal life, or the expression of a pantheistic
God-- did not attract Romanticism. It was Schelling, the erstwhile follower
and admirer of Fichte, who turned his attention to the philosophy
of nature and so more thoroughly satisfied the romantic yearnings of the
age. Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling was born at Leonberg, Würtemberg,
January 27, 1775, the son of a learned clergyman and writer on theology.

He was a precocious child and made rapid progress in his studies, entering
the Theological Seminary at Tübingen at the age of fifteen. Between the
ages of nineteen and twenty- two he wrote a number of able treatises
in the spirit of the new idealism, and was recognized as the most
talented pupil of Fichte and his best interpreter.

After the completion of his course at the University( 1795), he became
the tutor and companion of two young noblemen with whom he remained
for two years( 1796- 98) at the University of Leipzig, during which time
he devoted himself to the study of mathematics, physics, and medicine,
and published a number of philosophical articles. In 1798 he received
a call to a professorship at Jena, where Fichte, Schiller, Wilhelm
Schlegel, and Hegel became his colleagues, and where he entered into
friendly relations with the Romantic circle of which Caroline Schlegel,
who afterward became his wife, was a shining light.

This was the most productive period of his life; during the next few
years he developed his own system of philosophy and gave to the world
his most brilliant writings.

 My lord suspects nothing, of course
. . ." she added, while tears of impotence and of terror choked the words in her throat. "He'll
come here presently, and as like as not Leopold will do for him."

She burst into a passionate fit of weeping. Andor waited quietly until the first paroxysm of
sobs had subsided, and she could hear what he said, then he remarked quite quietly:

"As like as not, as you say."

"But I won't have him hurt," she murmured through her tears. "Leo would kill him for sure.
You don't know, Andor, what Leopold is like when the jealous rage is in him. He is outside
this house now, watching. And there he will stand and wait and watch; and he will waylay Count
Feri when he comes, and stab him with a hideous knife which he always carries in his pocket.
Oh! It's horrible!" she moaned, "horrible! I don't know what to do. What can I do? Andor, tell
me, what can I do?"

"What would you like to do?" he asked more gently, for indeed the girl's grief and terror were
pitiable to behold.

"Run over to the castle," she replied, "and get the key back from Count Feri, and tell him
on no account to come to-night. It is only a step; I could be back here in half an hour, and
father is asleep in the next room. I should be back before he need start for the station. But
Leopold is watching outside. He declared that he would strangle me or else tell father if I
set foot outside this house. He is a brute, isn't he?" 

So it was the pastorate of old Dr. Spencer, so it was with the pastorate
of old Dr Gardiner Spring, so the' pastorate it was with of a great
many of those old ministers of Jesus Christ, of whom the world was
not worthy.

"Curse him!" she muttered savagely; "I'll never marry him after this."

"Oh, yes, you will," he retorted, with a light laugh; "you'll like him all the better presently
for these outbursts of jealousy. A woman often gets fondest of the man she fears the most.
But in the meanwhile you are at your wits' ends, eh, my pretty Klara? You can't think of any
way out of your present difficulty, what? And to-night at ten o'clock there will be an awful
scandal and worse--murder, perhaps!--and where will you be after that, eh, my pretty Klara?
Even if your father does not break his stick over your shoulders, you'll have anyhow to leave
this village, for the village will be too hot to hold you. And as your father does mighty good
business at Marosfalva, he will not look too kindly on the daughter who, by her scandalous
conduct, has driven him to seek a precarious fortune elsewhere. The situation certainly is
a desperate one for you, my pretty one, what?"

"You need not tell me all that, Andor," she said sullenly. "Don't I know it?"

"It seems to me," he continued, slowly and deliberately, "that there never was a woman before
quite so desperately in need of a friend as you are, eh, Klara?" 

Now, if you pronounce Hinges in the French fashion, you give forth
an exclamation of distressful pain. The name cannot be shouted from a
motor- cycle. It has its difficulties even for the student of French.

So we all called it, plainly and bluntly Hinges, as though it were connected to a door. The inhabitants
noticed this.

Thinking that they and their forefathers had been wrong-- for surely these
fine men with red hats knew better than they-- the English pronunciation spread.
The village became' Ingees, and now only some unfashionable dotards in Béthune
preserve the tradition of the old pronunciation. It is not only
Hinges that has been thus decently attired in British garb.

Le Cateau is Lee Catòo. Boescheppe is Bo- peep. Ouderdon is Eiderdown.

Béthune was full of simple pleasures.

First there were the public baths, cheap and good, and sundry coiffeurs
who were much in demand, for they made you smell sweetly.

Then there was a little blue and white café.

The daughter of the house was well- favoured and played the piano with some skill. One of us spent all
his spare time at this café in silent adoration-- of the piano, for
his French was exiguous in the extreme.

There was a patisserie crammed full of the most delicious cream-
cakes.

The despatch rider who went to Hinges about 3.30 P. M. and did not
return with cakes for tea, found life unpleasant.

Near the station three damsels ruled a tavern. They were friendly
and eager to teach us French.

We might have left them with a sigh of regret if we had not once
arrived as they were eating their midday meal.

At one time the Germans dropped a few shells into Béthune, but did
little damage.

Bombs fell too. One nearly ended the existence of" Sadders"-- also
known as" Boo." It dropped on the other side of the street; doing
our despatch rider no damage, it slightly wounded Sergeant Croucher
of the Cyclists in a portion of his body that made him swear when
he was classed as a" sitting- up case."

Of all the towns behind the lines-- Béthune, Estaires, Armentières, Bailleul, Poperinghe-- Béthune is the
pleasantest. The people are charming. There is nothing you cannot
buy there.

It is clean and well- ordered, and cheerful in the rain. I pray that
Béthune may survive the war-- that after peace has been declared and
Berlin has been entered, I may spend a week there and much money to
the profit of the people and the satisfaction of myself.

Now I will give some account of our adventures out with the brigades
round La Bassée.

FOOTNOTES:[ 15] The first-- in October and November.[ 16] This is
not an unthinking advertisement.

After despatch riding from August 16 to February 18 my judgment should
be worth something.

I am firmly convinced that if the Government could have provided all
despatch riders with Blackburnes, the percentage-- at all times small--
of messages undelivered owing to mechanical breakdowns or the badness
of the roads would have been reduced to zero. I have no interest in
the Blackburne Company beyond a sincere admiration of the machine it
produces. CHAPTER IX. ROUND LA BASSÉE.

It had been a melancholy day, full of rain and doubting news. Those of us
who were not" out" were strolling up and down the platform arranging
the order of cakes from home and trying to gather from the sound of
the gunning and intermittent visits to the Signal Office what was
happening.

Someone had been told that the old 15th was being hard pressed.

Each of us regretted loudly that we had not been attached to it,
though our hearts spoke differently.

Despatch riders have muddled thoughts. There is a longing for the excitement
of danger and a very earnest desire to keep away from it. The C.
O. walked on to the platform hurriedly, and in a minute or two I was
off. It was lucky that the road was covered with unholy grease, that
the light was bad and there was transport on the road-- for it is
not good for a despatch rider to think too much of what is before him.

My instructions were to report to the general and make myself useful.
I was also cheerfully informed that the H. Q. of the 15th were under
a robust shell- fire. Little parties of sad- looking wounded that I
passed, the noise of the guns, and the evil dusk heartened me. I rode
into Festubert, which was full of noise, and, very hastily dismounting,
put my motor- cycle under the cover of an arch and reported to the
general.

He
was sitting at a table in the stuffy room of a particularly dirty
tavern. At the far end a fat and frightened woman was crooning to her child.
Beside her sat a wrinkled, leathery old man with bandaged head. He had wandered
into the street, and he had been cut about by shrapnel.

The few wits he had ever possessed were gone, and he gave every few seconds little croaks of hate. Three
telephone operators were working with strained faces at their highest
speed.

The windows had been smashed by shrapnel, and bits of glass and things crunched under foot. The room was
full of noises-- the crackle of the telephones, the crooning of the
woman, the croak of the wounded old man, the clear and incisive tones
of the general and his brigade- major, the rattle of not too distant
rifles, the booming of guns and occasionally the terrific, overwhelming
crash of a shell bursting in the village.

I was given a glass of wine. village street. The crashes came nearer and nearer,
until Cadell, the Brigade Signal Officer, and the Veterinary Officer, came
up to me and talked cheerfully in whispered speech about our friends.
There was the sharp cry of shrapnel in the street and a sudden rattle
against the whole house. The woman and child fled somewhere through
a door, followed feebly by the old man.

The brigade- major persuaded the general to work in some less unhealthy
place. The telephone operators moved. A moment' s delay as the general endeavoured
to persuade the brigade- major to go first, and we found ourselves under a
stalwart one end of the village and place shells at discreet intervals until
the other end of the village is reached. It is an unpleasant process
for those in the middle of the village, even though they be standing,
as we were, in comparatively good shelter. We heard the Germans start
at the other end of the a shell burst with a scream and a thunderous roar
just on our right. We puffed away at our cigarettes for a second, and
a certain despatch rider wished he were anywhere but in the cursed
village of Festubert by Béthune.

There was another scream and overwhelming relief.

The next shell burst three houses away on our left. I knocked my pipe out and filled another. The Germans
finished their little evening shoot.

We marched back very slowly in the darkness to 1910 Farm. This farm was
neither savoury nor safe.

It was built round a courtyard which consisted of a gigantic hole crammed
with manure in all the stages of unpleasant putrefaction.

One side is a barn; two sides consist of stables, and the third is the house inhabited not only by us
but by an incredibly filthy and stinking old woman who was continually
troubling the general because some months ago a French cuirassier
took one of her chickens.

The day after we arrived at this farm I had few despatches to take, so I wrote to Robert. Here is some
of the letter and bits of other letters I wrote during the following
days.

They will give you an idea of our state of mind:[ 17] If you want something
of the dramatic arch that led into the courtyard of the tavern.

We lit pipes and cigarettes. The crashes of bursting shells grew more
frequent, and the general remarked in a dry and injured tone--"

Their usual little evening shoot before putting up the shutters,
I suppose."

But first the Germans" searched" the village. Now to search a village
means to start at-- I am writing in a farm under shrapnel fire, smoking
a pipe that was broken by a shell.

For true effect I suppose I should not tell you that the shrapnel is
bursting about fifty yards the other side of the house, that I am
in a room lying on the floor, and consequently that, so long as they
go on firing shrapnel, I am perfectly safe.

It'
s the dismallest of places. Two miles farther back the heavies are
banging away over our heads.

There are a couple of batteries near the farm. Two miles along the road the four battalions
of our brigade are holding on for dear life in their trenches. The country is open plough, with
little clumps of trees, sparse hedges, and isolated cottages giving a precarious cover. It' s all very damp and miserable,
for it was raining hard last night and the day before. I am in a little
bare room with the floor covered with straw.

Two telegraph operators are making that infernal jerky clicking sound
I have begun so to hate.

Half a dozen men of the signal staff are lying about the floor looking at week-
old papers. In the next room I can hear the general, seated at a table
and intent on his map, talking to an officer that has just come from the firing
line. Outside the window a gun is making a fiendish row, shaking the whole
house. Occasionally there is a bit of a rattle-- that' s shrapnel bullets
falling on the tiles of an outhouse. If you came out you might probably
find this exhilarating.

I have just had a talk with our mutual friend Cadell, the Signal Officer of this brigade, and
we have decided that we are fed up with it. For one thing-- after two months' experience of shell
fire the sound of a shell bursting within measurable distance makes
you start and shiver for a moment-- reflex action of the nerves.

That is annoying. We both decided we would willingly change places with you
and take a turn at defending your doubtless excellently executed
trenches at Liberton.

The line to the----[ 18] has just gone. It' s almost certain death
to relay it in the day- time. Cadell and his men are discussing the
chances while somebody else has started a musical- box. A man has
gone out; I wonder if he will come back.

The rest of the men have to sleep again. That gun outside the window
is getting on my nerves. Well, well!

The shrapnel fire appears to have stopped for the present. No, there' s
a couple together. If they fire over this farm I hope they don' t send me
back to D. H. Q. Do you know what I long for more than anything else?

A clean, unhurried breakfast with spotless napery and silver and porridge and kippers. I don' t think
these long, lazy after- breakfast hours at Oxford were wasted. They are a memory and a hope out
here.

The shrapnel is getting nearer and more frequent.

We are all hoping it will kill some chickens in the courtyard. The laws
against looting are so strict. What an excellent musical- box, playing
quite a good imitation of Cavalleria Rusticana. I guess we shall have
to move soon. Too many shells. Too dark to write any more---- After
all remember, quite the most important things out here are a fine
meal and a good bath.

If you consider the vast area of the war the facts that we have lost two guns or advanced five miles are
of very little importance.

War, making one realise the hopeless insignificance of the individual,
creates in one such an immense regard for self, that so long as one
does well it matters little if four officers have been killed reconnoitring
or some wounded have had to be left under an abandoned gun all night.

I started with an immense interest in tactics. This has nearly all
left me and I remain a more or less efficient despatch- carrying animal--
a part of a machine realising the hopeless, enormous size of the
machine.

The infantry officer after two months of modern war is a curious phenomenon.[
19] He is probably one of three survivors of an original twenty- eight.
He is not frightened of being killed; he has forgotten to think about
it.

But there is a sort of reflex fright. He becomes either cautious and liable
to sudden panics, or very rash indeed, or absolutely mechanical in his
actions.

The first state means the approach of a nervous breakdown, the second
a near death. There are very few, indeed, who retain a nervous balance and
a calm judgment. And all have a harsh frightened voice. If you came
suddenly out here, you would think they were all mortally afraid.

But it is only giving orders for hours together under a heavy fire. Battle
noises are terrific.

At the present moment a howitzer is going strong behind this, and the concussion is tremendous. The noise is
like dropping a traction- engine on a huge tin tray.

A shell passing away from you over your head is like the loud crackling
of a newspaper close to your ear.

It makes a sort of deep reverberating crackle in the air, gradually
lessening, until there is a dull boom, and a mile or so away you
see a thick little cloud of white smoke in the air or a pear- shaped
cloud of grey- black smoke on the ground.

Coming towards you a shell makes a cutting, swishing note, gradually getting
higher and higher, louder and louder. There is a longer note one instant
and then it ceases. Shrapnel bursting close to you has the worst sound.
It is almost funny in a village that is being shelled.

Things simply disappear.

You are standing in an archway a little back from the road-- a shriek of shrapnel.
The windows are broken and the tiles rush clattering into the street, while
little bullets and bits of shell jump like red- hot devils from side
to side of the street, ricochetting until their force is spent.

Or a deeper bang, a crash, and a whole house tumbles down. 3/ 4- hour later.--
Curious life this. Just after I had finished the last sentence, I was
called out to take a message to a battery telling them to shell a certain village.
Here am I wandering out, taking orders for the complete destruction of
a village and probably for the death of a couple of hundred men[ 20]
without a thought, except that the roads are very greasy and that lunch time
is near.

Again, yesterday, I put our Heavies in action, and in a quarter of an hour a fine old church, with what appeared
from the distance a magnificent tower, was nothing but a grotesque
heap of ruins.

The Germans were loopholing it for defence. Oh the waste, the utter damnable waste
of everything out here-- men, horses, buildings, cars, everything. Those
who talk about war being a salutary discipline are those who remain
at home.

In a modern war there is little room for picturesque gallantry or picture-
book heroism. We are all either animals or machines, with little gained
except our emotions dulled and brutalised and nightmare flashes of
scenes that cannot be written about because they are unbelievable.

I wonder what difference you will find in us when we come home---- Do you know what a night scare
is? In our last H. Q. we were all dining when suddenly there was a terrific outburst of rifle- fire
from our lines. We went out into the road that passes the farm and stood there in the pitch darkness,
wondering.

The fire increased in intensity until every soldier within five miles
seemed to be revelling in a lunatic succession of" mad minutes."

Was it a heavy attack on our lines? Soon pom- poms joined in sharp,
heavy taps-- and machine guns. The lines to the battalions were at the moment
working feebly, and what the operators could get through was scarcely
intelligible.

Ammunition limbers were hurried up, and I stood ready to dart anywhere.
For twenty minutes the rifle- fire seemed to grow wilder and wilder. At
last stretcher- bearers came in with a few wounded and reported that
we seemed to be holding our own. Satisfactory so far. Then there
were great flashes of shrapnel over our lines; that comforted us,
for if your troops are advancing you don' t fire shrapnel over the
enemy' s lines.

You never know how soon they may be yours. The firing soon died down until we heard nothing but
little desultory bursts. Finally an orderly came-- the Germans had half- heartedly charged our trenches
but had been driven off with loss.

We returned to the farm and found that in the few minutes we had been
outside everything had been packed and half- frightened men were standing
about for orders.

The explanation of it all came later and was simple enough. The French, without letting us know, had
attacked the Germans on our right, and the Germans to keep us engaged
had made a feint attack upon us.

So we went back to dinner. In modern war the infantryman hasn' t
much of a chance.

Strategy nowadays consists in arranging for the mutual slaughter
of infantry by the opposing guns, each general trusting that his guns
will do the greater slaughter.

And half gunnery is luck. The day before yesterday we had a little afternoon shoot at where we thought the
German trenches might be. The Germans unaccountably retreated, and yesterday
when we advanced we found the trenches crammed full of dead. By a combination
of intelligent anticipation and good luck we had hit them exactly----
From these letters you will be able to spread what mood we were in
and something of what the brigade despatch rider was doing.

After the first day the Germans ceased shrapnelling the fields round the farm and left us nearly
in peace. There I met Major Ballard, commanding the 15th Artillery Brigade,
one of the finest officers of my acquaintance, and Captain Frost,
the sole remaining officer of the Cheshires.

He was charming to me; I was particularly grateful for the loan of
a razor, for my own had disappeared and there were no despatch riders
handy from whom I could borrow.

Talking of the Cheshires reminds me of a story illustrating the troubles of
a brigadier. The general was dining calmly one night after having arranged
an attack. All orders had been sent out. Everything was complete and ready.
Suddenly there was a knock at the door and in walked Captain M----, who reported
his arrival with 200 reinforcements for the Cheshires out, a pleasant
but irritating addition. The situation was further complicated by
the general' s discovery that M---- was senior to the officer then
in command of the Cheshires.

Poor M---- was not left long in command.

A
fortnight later the Germans broke through and over the Cheshires, and
M---- died where a commanding officer should. From 1910 Farm I had one good
ride to the battalions, through Festubert and along to the Cuinchy
bridge.

For me it was interesting because it was one of the few times I had ridden just behind our trenches,
which at the moment were just north of the road and were occupied
by the Bedfords.

In a day or two we returned to Festubert, and Cadell gave me a shake- down on a mattress in his billet-- gloriously
comfortable. The room was a little draughty because the fuse of a shrapnel had gone
right through the door and the fireplace opposite. Except for a peppering on
the walls and some broken glass the house was not damaged; we almost
laughed at the father and mother and daughter who, returning while
we were there, wept because their home had been touched.

 Of course, everyone knew of
Béla's aversion to the csárdás, and curiosity prompted gaffers and gossips to try and hear
what would be the end of this argument between the pretty bride--who certainly looked rather
wilful and obstinate now--and her future lord and master.

"Well said, little Elsa!" came now in ringing accents from the foremost group in the little
crowd; "we must see you dance the csárdás once or twice more before that ogre has the authority
to shut you up in his castle."

"Moreover, your promise has been made to me," asserted Fehér Károly lustily, "and I certainly
shall not release you from it."

"Nor I," added Jenö.

"Don't you listen to Béla, my little Elsa," said one of the older women; "you are still a free
girl to-day. You just do as you like--to-morrow will be time enough to do as he tells you."

But this opinion the married men present were not prepared to endorse, and one or two minor
arguments and lectures ensued anent a woman's duty of obedience.

Béla had said nothing while these chaffing remarks were being passed over his head; and now
that public attention was momentarily diverted from him, he took Elsa's hand and passed it
under his arm.

"You had better go to your mother now, hadn't you?" he said, with what seemed like perfect
calm. "You said just now that you wished to speak to her."

Elsa allowed him to lead her away. She tried vainly to guess what was going on in his mind.
She knew, of course, that he must be very angry. Erös Béla beaten in an argument was at no
time a very pleasant customer, and now he surely was raging inwardly, for he had set his heart
on exerting his authority over this matter of the csárdás and had signally failed.

But she could not see how he felt, for he kept his face averted from her inquiring gaze.

Kapus Irma greeted her future son-in-law with obvious acerbity.

"I hear you have been teasing Elsa again," she said crossly. "Why can't you let her enjoy herself
just for to-night, without interfering with her?"

"Oh! I am not going to interfere with her," he replied, with a sneer. "You have given her such
perfect lessons of disobedience and obstinacy that it will take me all my time in the future
to drill her into proper wifely shape. " Should say' t was a mud- turtle by the looks of his legs," said
Bob."

Nurth,
do turtle- doves live in the mud?" said Pip."

Nonsense," said Bob," as if birds ever lived in the mud!""

Well," said Pip," thum thwallows, I know, make their neths of mud,
and then they live in their neths, and that' s living in mud.

But here comth the Profethor; let' s see what heeth found. It' s thumthin
in a glath."

The Professor came up, walking very slowly across the grass; then
stepped carefully up upon the piazza, and, as he passed the window
pipe. A great beard reached below his dangling feet and touched the
floor."

May I warm myself at your fire, kind gentleman?" said Kate, dropping a courtesy.
The little old man grunted without looking at her."

May I warm myself at your fire, sir?, he called for some one to come
and open the front door.

All the children ran together, and opened the door with such a flourish,
the Professor was obliged to call out," Stand off!

Hands off!""

Will it splode?" said Pip."

Will it bite?" said Bob." Will it fly away?" said Tom." It will splode,"
said the Professor," and it will fly away; but it won' t bite. had
a hard time catching the creature, whatever it is," said nurse."

You' d better leave it out- of- doors now, and clean yourself, and
come and eat your luncheon.""

Oh,
please, nurse,"" Oh my!" said Pip," what can it be? I never heard of any creature
splodin!"

The Professor looked pleased; his face was red, his hair was tumbled, his
coat was torn, and his boots and trousers were muddy." You look as if
you had let' s see it now!" said all the children; and nurse, who
wanted to see it herself, agreed."

You can' t see it," said the Professor;" it' s invisible! You can' t see
it till it disappears!""

Oh dear," said Pip," I just ache to know about it."" Well," said
the Professor," light mamma' s wax- taper.""

I don'
t see what good lighting a taper will do, if the creature' s invisible,"
said Bob.

The Professor set his burden down on the table.

It was a saucer filled with water, and in the water stood a tumbler
upside down.

There was nothing to be seen in the tumbler.

The Professor struck an attitude." What I have in this tumbler, nurse
and children, was obtained with great difficulty.

I' ve been about it ever since lesson- time.""

Where did you find it?" says Pip."

How came you to know about it?" says Tom." I should think it would be hard to catch nothing," says
Bob."

I found it in the water, in the little pool in our woods.

I saw it first the other night in the dark, and I caught it to- day
when it was hiding.

I took a long stick and gently stirred up the dead leaves that lie
rotting on the bottom, and he began to come up-- first one, then another--
now here, and now there.""

Ho! ho!" says Bob." How could that be? How could he come up in pieces, and in
different places?"" Poor thing!" said Pip." He wath dead!""

Oh, if he' s dead I don' t care about him," says Bob." He' s far from dead," said the Professor;"
and though he was in pieces, he' s all together now, and safe in
this tumbler."

And then, seizing the lighted taper, he turned up the tumbler, held the
taper quickly to its mouth, and-- Pop! went something, with a quick
flash."

Oh, fire- works!" says Bob."

Oh, tell us truly about it!" says Tom." Where did you buy it?

Let' s have some for the Fourth!"" Children," said the Professor," I have
told you the truth about it. It' s gas.

It' s carbureted hydrogen. I found it in the pond.' Carbureted hydrogen'
is its science name. Its poetry name is' Will- o'- the- wisp,' and there'
s another name besides.""

I should think two names were enough for nothing," says Bob."

What' th the other name?" said Pip."

Ignis fatuus," the Professor."

It means' Cheating- fire.' Sometimes this gas, rising to the top of
the water in bubbles, takes fire( by what they call spontaneous combustion,
or by mixing with some other gas, or in some other way), and then,
as one bubble after another takes fire and goes flickering along,
it looks as if some one were walking through the woods with a lantern.""

And thath how it cheat- th, isn' t it?" said Pip." But I don' t thee how it is thet
afire.

Perhapth, children to bed, having given them each a piece of bread,
which she had borrowed from a kind neighbor, she threw a shawl around
her head and started off in the direction of Castle Dunderhead, where
her fears told her only too plainly her father was.

The bars of the dungeon windows came upon a level with the ground,
like those of a cellar now-- perhapth it' s the fire- flyth!""

Oh, good for you!" said the Professor; and he chased her round the
table, and caught her, and kissed her."

Well, how did you ever get it with that tumbler?" said Tom." Well,
easy enough. First, I filled the tumbler with water. Then I laid the saucer
over the top. Then I plunged the whole under the water, holding tumbler
and saucer with both hands firm, and turned them over in the water,
and drew them out.

The saucer, as well as the tumbler, was then full of water, and though
the tumbler was upside down the water couldn' t fall out.""

What hindered it, I' d like to know?" said Bob." Atmospheric pressure,"
said the Professor, pushing the words out"

The gas pushed it out," said the Professor," I told you how I stirred
up the bottom of the pool.

It was all covered with dead leaves.

These as they rot give out gas, but it cannot easily escape from the
bottom, and stays down among the leaves and slime till it is stirred up.
Then the little bubbles of gas come popping up, and as they mount
I am ready with my tumbler and saucer.

I slip them both softly into the water a little way off, draw out
the saucer, slide the inverted tumbler over the bubbles before they
break; and the gas mounts into the tumbler, each bubble of gas displacing
a little water; then over more bubbles, and more and more, until all
the water in the tumbler is out and the gas is in its place; then
I fill the saucer with water again, slide it under the tumbler, and
bring it home.""

Come to your luncheon, children," cried nurse."

The pudding will be cold."" Oh, wait a minute," said Tom." You said the gas drove out the water
in the tumbler. Why don' t it drive out the water in the saucer?" The
Professor looked puzzled."

Well, it would in time, I suppose.

But you see, its nature is to push upward, because it' s light----"" Oh, now, it pushes the
same every way," said Tom." There' s something we don' t know," said Bob." Oh, yeth, I am afwaid
we don' t know it all," said Pip." Well," drawled the Professor," I don' t know, only I
guess it' s because the water is too dense-- too close together, for
one thing; and the same atmospheric pressure that kept the water
in keeps the gas in, for another.""

There, I do believe that slow' s it," said Pip." Oh, how nice it did pop off! Like a vewy small
fwier- cracker a great way off. Now let' s have some pudding. Apple and sago! Just the nithest pudding in the
world!" One day an ant went to visit her neighbor; She found her quite busy with all sorts of labor;
So she didn' t go in, but stopped at the sill; Left her respects, and went
back to her hill. FOUR CHARADES.[ A] BY C. P. CRANCH.

I. When swiftly in my first you glide along, Naught ruffles up the
temper of your mind; All goes as smoothly as a summer song, All objects
flit beside you like the wind.

But if you should be stopped in your career, And forced to linger when
you fain would fly, You' ll leave my first, and, very much I fear,
Will fall into my second speedily.

Till in some snug and comfortable room Your friends receive you as
a welcome guest, You' ll own that Winter' s robbed of half his gloom,
When on my whole your feet in slippers rest.

II. MY FIRST. I sunder friends, yet give to laws A place to stand and
plead their cause.

Though justice and sobriety Still find their safest ground in me,
I spread temptation in man' s way, And rob and ruin every day.

MY SECOND.

Success and power are in my name, Men strive for me far more than
fame.

One thing I am unto the wise, But quite another in fools' eyes, Through
me the world is rich and strong, Yet too much love of me is wrong.
MY WHOLE. My first and second when they meet, As lawyers' fees, my
whole complete.

And yet my first too oft enjoyed, Is sure to make my second void. My
whole is good and bad by turns, As every merchant daily learns.

III. My first the stout Hibernian wields On banks and streets and stubborn
fields, To earn the bread that labor yields.

My second is a name for one Whose youth and age together run, A leader
all good people shun.

My whole in summer- time is sweet, When youths and maids together meet Beneath
some shady grove' s retreat.( So simple is this short charade, That
I very much afraid You' ll guess at once, without my aid.) IV.

When I was a little boy, how welcome was my first; When tired of
play I went to bed, my lessons all rehearsed.

How soundly all the night I slept, without a care or sorrow, And
waked when sunshine lit the room, and robins sang good- morrow.

When I was a little boy, what joy it was to see My second waiting
at the door for Willy and for me; And how we trotted off to bring
ripe apples from the farm, And piled our bags on Nellie' s back, nor
felt the least alarm.

But when I was a little boy, I had an ugly dream, A huge black bear was
in my bed, I gave a dreadful scream, And roused the house; they brought
in lights, and put my whole to flight, Since then I made a vow to
eat no supper late at night.[ A] The answers will be given in the"

Letter- Box" for May, 1878. WISE CATHERINE AND THE KABOUTERMANNEKEN.
BY HOWARD PYLE. In old times, there was once a quaint little dwarf, who
was known as the Kaboutermanneken of Kaboutermannekensburg.

In the very ancient times of good King Broderic and Frederic Barbarossa,
he constantly lived above ground, and many times was seen trudging
along through the moonlit forest with a bag over his shoulder.

What was in the bag nobody exactly knew, but most people supposed
it to be gold.

The Kaboutermanneken was a peppery little fellow, and at the slightest
word his rage would fire up hotly.

Since he was quite able, small as he was, to thrash the strongest man, he
was very generally avoided. It is a well- assured fact that, as churches
increase, dwarfs and elfin- folk diminish; so, at last, when the
town of Kaboutermannekensburg was founded, and a church built, the
Kaboutermanneken was fairly driven to the wall, or, rather, into the
ground, where he lived in the bowels of the earth, and only appeared
at intervals of a hundred years.

But, upon the last day that terminated each of these series of a
hundred years, he would re- look in his old haunts, and, I believe,
continues the practice to the present day, in spite of railroads,
steam- engines, and all the paraphernalia of progress, so destructive
to fairy lore.

I.-- THE GOLDEN CUP. Once upon a time, after the Kaboutermanneken'
s visits had become events of such rarity, there lived a worthy wood-
chopper, who had a daughter named Catherine; a pretty little maiden
of sixteen, and yet the wisest woman in the kingdom of Kaboutermannekensburg.

Shrewd as she was, she had yet the best, the kindest, and the most guileless heart in the world;
and many a sick man, troubled woman, and grieved child had cause
to bless her and her wisdom.

One winter, when labor was cheap and bread expensive, the wood- chopper,
whose name was Peter Kurtz, chopped his hand instead of the stump
he was aiming a blow at, and, in consequence, rendered himself unfit
for work for many a day.

During his sickness, the whole care of the family devolved upon Kate; for
Peter' s wife had died nearly two years before; so it was Kate who
tended the baby, dressed Johann, mended Wilhelm' s small- clothes,
and attended to the wants of her father; for in those days a sick
man was more complaining than a child two years old.

Beside these acts of labor, she had to cook the meals, wash the dishes,
sweep the house, run of errands, chop the wood, make the fire, and
many other little odd duties of the kind; so that, upon the whole,
her time was pretty well occupied.

There seemed a probability now, however, that one of these duties would be dispensed with, namely,
cooking the meals; not that there was any indolence upon Catherine'
s part, but because the necessary materials were not forthcoming.

Indeed, the extent of the larder at present consisted of half a bowl of
cold gravy, and about a quarter of a loaf of bread.

When Catherine, that cold and morning, inspected the woeful emptiness
of the cupboard, she wrung her cold blue hands in despair; but, wring
her poor little hands ever so much, she could not squeeze good bread
and meat out of them; something must be done, and that immediately,
if she would save the children from starving.

At length she bethought herself that many rich people of Kaboutermannekensburg
were fond of burning pine- cones instead of rough logs, not only
on account of the bright, warm and crackling fire they produced, but
also because of the sweet resinous odor that they threw out, filling
the house with a perfume like that which arose from the censers in
the cathedral.

It was woeful weather for Catherine to go hunting for pine- cones.

The snow lay a good foot deep over the glossy brown treasures, and she
herself was but thinly clad; yet the children must have bread.

Not having eaten breakfast that morning, she slipped the remnant
of the loaf into the basket to serve as lunch, and then started to
face the wind toward the forest.

Bitterly cold blew the wind from the bleak north; tearing through the moaning pine forest, that
tossed and swayed before the tempest, gnawing Catherine' s nose and fingers, and snatching up,
as it were, handfuls of snow, and hurling them in a rage through
the air.

Poor Catherine was nearly frozen, yet she struggled bravely on through the drifting snow. Suddenly she
caught sight of a quaint little cottage that she had never seen before, much as she had traveled
this portion of the forest; but a more welcome sight still was the
gleam of a cheery fire within, that illuminated the frost- covered
panes with a ruddy glow.

Catherine, stumbling, sliding, struggling through the drifts, reached
the cottage at last, raised the latch, and entered a door- way so
low that even she, small as she was, had to stoop her head in passing."

Shut the door!" shrieked a shrill voice, with startling abruptness;
and, for the first time, Kate perceived a very little old man seated
in a very large chair, and smoking a very long" repeated Kate, in
a louder voice, supposing he must be deaf."

I heard you!" growled the old dwarf, with sudden rage."

You don' t suppose I' m deaf, do you? I said yes. You don' t want to argue, do you?" Kate
murmured her thanks, feeling much astonished and very uncomfortable
at the old gentleman' s conduct.

Thus they sat in silence for a long while, the little old man smoking had anything to eat for one
hundred years; I feel kind of empty," said he." I should think so,"
thought Kate to herself; then, after regarding him in silence for
a few minutes, she said, timidly," I-- I have a-- a piece of bread
in my basket, sir, if you would like to have it?""

Like
to have it? You speak as though you had no sense. Of course, I should
like to have it!

Why didn' t you offer it to me sooner?" Kate, in spite of her hunger,
that had recommenced gnawing her, now that she was warm, handed him
the piece of bread.

The old man seized it ravenously, opened his mouth to an astonishing
extent, bolted the large morsel as one does a pill, and then resumed
his smoking as though nothing of any note had occurred.

Kate
regarded him with silent astonishment." What are you doing out in this kind
of weather?" said the old man, suddenly." I came to gather pine-
cones to sell in the town," said Kate." You' re a fool!" snapped the
old man." How do you suppose you can gather pine- cones in twelve inches
of snow, not to mention the drifts?""

Nevertheless, sir, I have to get the children something to eat, and father----"" Oh! don' t bother
me with that story!" said the old man, impatiently." I know all
about it. Your father' s Peter Kurtz, isn' t he?"" Yes, sir."" Umph!" grunted
the dwarf.

Then, after another pause," go to the closet yonder, and take one
of the cups there, in return for the bread you gave me.""

Indeed, sir," said Kate, earnestly," I do not care for any return for----""
Do as I tell you!" bellowed the dwarf, a fury. Kate crossed the room,
opened the cupboard, and-- what a sight met her eyes! All the dishes,
bowls, cups and saucers were of pure gold."

Take one of the cups?" said Kate, in breathless doubt." That' s what
I said, wasn' t it?" snarled the dwarf." You are just like all women,
never contented with what you receive."

Catherine was far too wise to answer foolish abuse with useless excuse;
she silently took one of the beautiful cups and put it in her basket.
She was so overcome that she did not think of any word of thanks
until she had reached the door; then, turning:" May heaven bless
you, sir, for----""

Shut the door!" screamed the dwarf. Kate hurried home, but before reaching
the town she wisely covered the cup with snow, that no gossiping neighbor
might catch sight of it; for she well knew that gossip was like
the snow- ball that the little boys start rolling from the top of
a hill-- small in the commencement, but sure to grow before it ends
its more course."

Where have you been all this time?" whined Peter. When Kate tell her adventure,
her father could hardly believe her, and when she had carefully removed
the snow from the cup, he could hardly believe his eyes. He placed it upon
the table, and then, sitting down in front of it, he examined it
with breathless astonishment and delight.

The cup was of solid gold for a long time, he arose suddenly, and, without saying a word, wrapped
up the cup in a napkin, drew his cowl more closely around his face,
and, taking his staff, prepared to leave the house." Where are you going,
father?" said Kate." I am going, slowly." The whole atmosphere weighs
down on the water in the saucer and balances the water in the tumbler
and keeps it in.""

It had all leaked out before you reached home, anyway," said Bob." said Peter," to
take this cup GO to our master, the Baron von Dunderhead; that will
be far more to our advantage than selling it to some petty goldsmith
or other."" Take care what you do, father!" said Kate, quickly." I
foresee that danger will come of it, if you fulfill your intention.""

Bah!" said
Peter, and, without deigning another word, he marched out of the house;
for Peter, like a great many men in those days, had a very poor opinion
of the feminine intellect, and a very good opinion of his own. So
off he marched boldly toward castle Dunderhead. When Peter presented
the golden cup to the baron, with a low bow, that nobleman could not
find sufficient words to express his admiration.

He sighed with rapture, and examined the cup from every side with the utmost
minuteness." Give this worthy man," said he," four bags of guilders;
money is nothing to the acquisition of such a treasure of beauty."

Here Peter secretly hugged himself, and chuckled at his like a volcano. At length:" Are you hungry?"
said he, abruptly." Yes, sir," said Kate, bethinking herself of her
bread."

So am I!"
said the old man, shortly, at the same time resuming his smoking. Removing
his pipe after another pause," I haven' t daughter' s warning. Meanwhile, the
baron examined the cup with huge satisfaction. Suddenly turning to
Peter," Where is the saucer?" said he."

The saucer?" repeated Peter, blankly." Please you, my lord, it never had
a saucer!"" Never had a saucer?" repeated the baron." You don' t mean to
tell me that such a cup as that was ever made, heavy and massive; carved
upon it in bold relief was a group of figures representing a host of little
elves at a banquet. So exquisitely were they engraved that they appeared
actually to move, and it seemed as though one could almost hear their
laughter and talk.

A glittering, carved golden snake, curled around the brim of the cup,
served as a handle; its eyes were two diamonds. After Peter Kurtz had
feasted his eyes upon this treasure without a saucer to go with it!
the""

Nevertheless, my lord, I have no saucer," said Peter, humbly." You are deceiving
me," said the baron, sternly. Then, fixing his eye upon poor Peter,"
Where did you get that cup?" said he, abruptly."

Me- thinks you are rather a poor man to possess such a treasure.""

Oh, good my lord!" cried poor Peter," I will tell you the whole truth. An old man in the forest gave it to my
daughter Kate.""

Do you expect me to believe such a story as that?" exclaimed the
baron."

You
stole it, you thief!" he roared, at the same time Peter by the collar."
Ho! guards! Arrest this man, and throw him into the dungeon," cried
he to his attendants."

Mercy! mercy, my lord!" cried poor Peter, falling on his knees. But the guards
dragged him off in spite of his cries, and popped him into a dungeon, where
he was left to meditate over his folly in not heeding his daughter'
s advice.

II.-- THE GOOSE THAT WAS TO LAY THE GOLDEN EGG.

Catherine waited anxiously for her father' s return, but her fears
told her all when night came and he came not.

After she had put the." Father!" murmured Catherine." Oh, Kate!" was the response,
followed immediately by the sound of violent crying, and Catherine
knew her father was there."

Oh, Kate! if I-- I had but l- listened to you!" sobbed the poor fellow;
for, now that the discovery was too late to avail him, he felt perfectly
sure of his daughter' s superior intelligence.

Then, with much sobbing, he recounted all the particulars of his
interview with the baron."

Can' t you do something to get your poor old father out?" continued
he.

Kate was thoughtful for a moment." I' ll try, father," said she, at
length; and, bidding him a hasty adieu, she hurried off.

She ran, without stopping, to where the little cottage stood in the
forest; but, as you have already probably guessed, the old man was the
Kaboutermanneken, his day' s visit was over, and he had descended
once more into the obscurity of the earth; consequently Catherine,
much to her perplexity, could not discover the little cottage.

After vainly seeking for some time, she at length saw the hopelessness
of her task, and wended her way sorrowfully homeward.

She lay awake nearly all night, vainly cudgeling her brains for some
plan by which to deliver her father from his confinement.

At length an idea occurred to her, and, smiling to herself,
she turned on her pillow and fell asleep until the sun shining in
her eyes awakened her.

Then, arising, she donned her best frock and neatest cap, and
proceeded to the Castle Dunderhead. She was directly presented to
the baron."

My lord!" said she, falling upon her knees." Well, my pretty
damsel," said he; Kate looked very sweet in her saucy cap."

My lord," continued she, and the tears rose
to her eyes as she spoke;" you have my father in custody."" Ha!" exclaimed
the baron, frowning,--"

Peter Kurtz?""

Yes, my lord."" Bring forth Peter Kurtz!"
cried the baron to the guard, and soon Peter made his appearance,
crying like a good fellow

.
 The very night seemed to
be in league with him, the darkness and the silence and all those soft sounds of gently-murmuring
river and calls of birds and beasts, and the fragrance of dying flowers which numbed the senses
and obliterated the thought of God, of duty and of parents.

"No, no, Andor," she murmured feebly, "you have no right to speak like that. I am tokened to
Béla. I have sworn that I would be his wife. My hand was in his and the Pater blessed us; and
it was after Holy Communion and when Christ Himself was in my heart! And there is mother too
and father, the house which Béla promised them, the oxen and the pigs, a maid to look after
father. Mother would curse me if I cheated her of all that now."

"When we are settled in Australia," he pleaded earnestly, "we will write to your parents and
send them money to come out and join us."

"Father is paralysed. How could he come? And mother would curse me. And a mother's curse, Andor,
is registered by God."

"Elsa, if you loved me you would leave father and mother and come with me."

"Then perhaps I do not love you, Andor," she said slowly, "for I could not bear my mother's
curse, I could not break the pledge which I swore after Holy Communion! I could not commit
so great a sin, Andor, not even for your sake, for if I did remorse would break my heart, and
all your love for me would not compensate me for the sin."

And before he could say another word, before his arms could once more close round her or his
trembling hands clutch at her fluttering petticoats, she was gone--vanished out of his grasp
and into the darkness, and only the patter of her little feet broke the silence of the night.

CHAPTER XXV

"In any case Elsa is not for you."

Andor with a sigh of heartbroken disappointment now turned to go into the inn. He had the key
in his hand which my lord the young count had given him with a careless laugh and a condescending
nod of acknowledgment for the service thus rendered to him and to Klara.

The door of the tap-room was still wide open, a narrow wedge-shaped light filtrated through
on to the beams and floor of the verandah, making the surrounding blackness seem yet more impenetrable. 

Folks can' t help laughing-- they just naturally can' t, Ive!

You' ll be setting there in court, looking ugly as a gibcat and her
lawyer reading them things out.

Them cussed lawyers have a sassy way of----"

Buck got up, kicked his chair off onto the ground, and in choler
uncontrollable, clacked his fists under Avery' s nose and barked:"
Twit me another word-- just one other word-- and I' ll drive that
old nose of yourn clear up into the roof of your head!"

Then
he locked his store door and stumped away across the field to the
big barn, where the remains of Buck' s Leviathan Circus reposed in
isolated state.

No one knows by just what course of agonized reasoning he arrived at his final decision, but at dusk
he came back to the store.

With the dumb placidity of some ruminant, Avery was sitting in his same
place on the platform of the emporium."

Brick," said Ivory, humbly," I' ve been thinking back and remembering
what I wrote to her-- and it' s all of it pretty clear in my mind,'
cause I never wrote love letters to anyone else.

And I can' t face it. I couldn' t sit in court and hear it. I couldn'
t sit here on this platform in my own home place and the people afterward.
I couldn' t start on the road with a circus and have the face to
stand before the big tent after it and bark like I used to.

They' d grin me out of business. I' d be backed into the stall. No,
I can' t do it. Go down and see what she' ll compromise on." Avery
came back after two hours and loomed in the dusk before the platform.

He fixed his eyes on the plug hat that was still lowered in the attitude
of despondency." I wrassled with her, Ivory, just the same as if
I was handling my own money, and I beat her down to sixty- six hundred.

She won' t take a cent less.""

I' ll tell you what that sounds like to me," snarled Buck, after
a moment of meditation."

It sounds as if she was going to get five thousand and you was looking
after your little old sixteen hundred."

A couple of tears squeezed out and down over Avery' s flabby cheeks."
This ain' t the first time you' ve misjudged me, when I' ve been
doing you a favor," said he."

And it' s all on account of the same mis' able woman that I' m misjudged--
and we was living so happy here, me and you.

I wish she was in s a song there----" she went on." There are a lot of songs,"
said I." There' s one in particular." There wasn' t any use in fencing,
so I answered:" You mean the' Jo- Jo' song.

It' s a silly little ditty, and it' s sung by----""

A girl
named Hartopp-- Maisie Hartopp.----" His voice broke." I ain' t responsible
for what I' m saying, Avery," pleaded Buck, contritely."

You know what things have happened to stir me up the last few hours-- yes, all my, for that matter.
I ain t been comfortable in mind for thirty years till you come here
and cheered me up and showed me what' s what.

I appreciate it and I' ll prove that to you before we' re done.

We' ll get along together all right after this. All is, you must see me through." Then the two plug hats
bent together in earnest conference. The next morning Avery, armed with
an order on the savings bank at the shire for six thousand six hundred
dollars, and with Buck' s bank book in his inside pocket, drove up
to the door of Fyles' tavern in Buck' s best carriage, and Signora
Rosyelli flipped lightly up beside the peace commissioner.

He was to pay over the money on the neutral ground at the shire, receive the letters, put her aboard
a train and then come back triumphantly into that interrupted otium
cum dignitate of Smyrna Corner.

For two days a solitary and bereaved plug hat on the emporium' s
platform turned its fuzzy gloss toward the bend in the road at the
clump of alders.

But the sleek black nose of Buck' s" reader" did not appear. On the third
day the bank book arrived by mail, its account minus six thousand
six hundred dollars, and between its leaves a letter. It was an apologetic
letter, and yet it was flavored with a note of complaint. Brick Avery
stated that after thinking it all over he felt that, having been
misjudged cruelly twice, it might happen again, and being old, he
could not endure griefs of that kind.

He had supported the first two, but being naturally tender- hearted and
easily influenced, the third might be fatal. Moreover, the conscience
of Signora Rosyelli had troubled her, so he believed, ever since
the affair of the one thousand six hundred dollars.

So he had decided that he would quiet her remorse by marrying her and taking
entire charge of her improved finances. In fact, so certain was he
that she a woman fickle and vain-- that he had insisted on the marriage,
and she, realizing her dependence on his aid in cashing in, assented,
and he assured her that as her husband he was entitled to full control
of their affairs-- all of which, so the letter delicately hinted,
was serving as retribution and bringing her into a proper frame of
mind to realize her past enormities.

The writer hoped that his own personal self- sacrifice in thus becoming
the instrument of flagellation would be appreciated by one whom he
esteemed highly.

They would be known at the fairs as Moseer and Madame Bottotte, and
would do the genteel and compact gift- sale graft from the buggy--
having the necessary capital now-- and would accept the buggy and
horse as a wedding present, knowing that an old friend with forty-
three thousand four hundred dollars still left in the bank would not
begrudge this small gift to a couple just starting out in life, and
with deep regard for him and all inquiring friends, Why they were,
etc. In the more crucial moments of his life Buck had frequently refrained
from anathema as a method of relief.

Some situations were made vulgar and matter- of- fact by sulphurous ejaculation.
It dulled the edge of rancor brutally, as a rock dulls a razor. Now he
merely turned the paper over, took out a stubby lead pencil, licked
it and began to write on the blank side, flattening the paper on
his bank book.

FOR SALE-- 1 Band Wagon, 1 Swan Chariot, 3 Lion Cages. He paused here in his laborious scrawl and, despite
his resolution of silence, muttered:" It' s going to be a clean sale. I
don' t never in all my life want to hear of a circus, see a circus, talk
circus, see a circus man----""

Crack' would waste the money-- being em down, gents!" squalled the parrot. It was the first time
for many hours that he had heard his master' s voice, and the sound cheered
him. He hooked his beak around a wire and rattled away jovially. He seemed to be
relieved by the absence of the other plug hat that had been absorbing
so much of the familiar, beloved and original plug hat' s attention.
Ivory looked up at Elkanah vindictively and then resumed his soliloquy."
No, sir, never! Half of circusing is a skin game all through-- and
I' ve done my share of the skinning.

But to be skinned twice-- me, I. Buck, proprietor-- and the last time the worst, but----"" Twenty can
play it as well as one!" the parrot yelled, cocking his eye over
the edge of the cage.

It was an evil scowl that flashed up from under the plug hat, but Elkanah in his new joy was oblivious." Me a
man that' s been all through it from A to Z-- my affections trod
on, all confidence in females destroyed and nothing ahead of me all
the rest of my life! No, sir, I never want to hear of a circus again.
Bit by the mouths I fed-- and they thumbing their noses at me. That trick----""
It' s the old army game!" squealed the parrot, in nerve- racking rasp.
Ivory Buck arose, yanked the bottom off the cage, caught the squawking
bird, wrung his neck, tossed him into the middle of the road, and
then, sucking his bleeding finger, went on writing the copy for his
advertisement.

SUPPER WITH NATICA By ROBERT E. MACALARNEY It isn'
t at all pleasant to burn one' s fingers, but it' s worth while burning
them now and then, if you have to be scorched to be near a particularly
attractive fire; at least I' ve found it that way.

All of which leads me to Natica Drayton-- Melsford that was. I think I' m the only one of the crew she dragged
at her heels who hasn' t forgot about things and gone off after other
game; some of them have been lashed to the burning stake of pretty
uncomfortable domesticity, too.

As for me-- well, I' ve simply gone on caring, and I think I shall
always go on. Does she know it? Of course she knows it; always has known
it, ever since that first summer at Sacandaga.

Not that I' ve been ass enough to say anything after the first time.

I' m only an ordinary sort of chap when it comes to intuition, but somehow
I' ve never plucked up the cheek to do any talking about my own miserable
self; not since she let me down as gently as she could, while I paddled
her back from Birch Point to the canoe house, with Elephant Mountain
ragged- backed in the moon- haze.

For the life of me I couldn' t tell you what it was she said. There
was the drip of water from the paddle as I lifted it, stroke after
stroke; the tiny hiss of smother at the prow, and twisted through
it all, like a gathering string, Natica Melsford' s voice, letting
me down easy-- as easily as she could.

After I had made fast, I remember feeling that somehow the moonlight had turned things extremely cold;
and I reached for my sweater that lay in the stern. I also laughed a great deal too much around
the logs at the bungalow fire, and then drank a deal more than too
much at the clubhouse before turning in. Maybe it was cowardly to
sneak back to town a couple of days later," on business," of course--
a shabby excuse for a chap that doesn' t dabble in business more than
I do.

But I honestly needed to go to get back my equilibrium.

I got it, though, and I' ve kept it pretty continuously.

And this much is enough for that. Natica Melsford is the only interesting bit about this story, and let',
s get back to her.

That winter she married Jack Drayton The afternoon we rehearsed for
the wedding I looked at her, before we pranced down the aisle and
endured the endless silly giggles of the bridesmaids, and the usher
louts who would fall out of step, and grew more peevish by the minute.

I
looked her over then, and I said to myself:" You feeble paranoiac, imagine
that girl tying up with you."

Well, I couldn' t very well imagine it, although I tried. But I was
extremely noisy, and I heard two or three of the bridesmaids, to say
nothing of the maid of honor and the bridegroom' s mamma, tapping
their gentle hammers, at my expense, at the breakfast.

It was a year afterward that I began to fag regularly for the Drayton establishment. Jack Drayton,
by rights, ought to have been poisoned.

He' d be the first to acknowledge it now.

Perhaps if he' d married a girl who insisted on having things out the moment they began, the things
wouldn' t have happened. But Natica Melsford wasn' t that sort. She was the kind that simply looked
scorn into and clear through you, when she thought you were acting
low down.

This, with a man strung like Jack was, simply put the fat into the
fire.

It would have been different with me.

I' d-- well-- I' d have
made an abject crawl, to be sure. You see, her knowing this was the thing
that must have always queered me with her. A woman prefers a man she
can get furious at and who' ll stick it out a bit, to one who caves
in at the first sign of a frown.

But Jack carried things too far. No, he didn' t mind my frequenting
the house.

He liked me and I liked him. But, all the same, I knew he didn' t regard
me as a foeman worthy of his steel. And, although the knowledge made
me raw now and then, when he' s come in with his easy, careless way,
still I swallowed the mean feeling because it gave me a chance to
see her.

And don' t imagine I went around hunting for trouble.

It was at the club one night-- I' d just come from the Draytons, and Jack
hadn' t been home to dinner-- that I heard Rawlins Richardson and
Horace Trevano chattering about Maisie she Hartopp.

The"

Jo- Jo" song had made the biggest kind of a hit that winter at the Gaiety,
and the hit had been made by the Hartopp singing it to a stage box which
the Johnnies scrambled to bid in nightly. It seemed like small game for
Jack Drayton to be trailing along with the ruck-- the ruck meaning Tony
Criswold and the rest of that just out- of- college crew-- but I
didn' t need signed affidavits, after five minutes of club chatter,
to know that he was pretty well tied to an avenue window at Cherry'
s after the show.

The Ruinart, too, that kept spouting from the bucket beside it, was
a pet vintage of the Hartopp. There was a lot of that silly chuckle,
and I recalled reading somewhere that there was a husband belonging
to the Hartopp, a medium good welterweight, who picked up a living
flooring easy marks for private clubs at Paterson, N. J., and the
like, and occasionally serving as a punching bag for the good uns
before a championship mill.

What the devil was there to do? I couldn' t answer the riddle. It sounds
like old women' s chatter, the meddlesome way I scribble this down.
It would take a real thing in the?"

She flung this after me before I had got to the hall." Yes," said I,
all unthinking." Then we line of literature to paint me right, anyway,
I fancy.

When a third party keeps mixing in with husband and wife, he deserves all the slanging that' s
coming to him; which same is my last squeal for mercy. A month went by-- two of them. Natica Drayton
wasn' t the strain that needs spectacles to see through things. Then, too, I guessed the loving
friend sympathy racket was being worked by some of the bridge whist aggregation which met up with her
every fortnight.

She laughed more than she ought to have done. This was a bad sign with
her. Once or twice, when the three of us dined together, and she
was almost noisy over the benedictine, I could have choked Jack Drayton,
for he didn' t see.

It' s not a pretty thing for an outsider to sit à trois, and see things
in a wife' s manner that the husband doesn' t or won' t see; and
worse than that, to know that the wife knows you see it and that he
doesn' t. Speak to Jack?

I wouldn'
t have done it for worlds.

As I said, I' m willing to burn my fingers and even cuddle the hurt; but I don' t meddle with
giant firecrackers except on the Fourth of July, and that didn' t come
until afterward.

I was to take her to the opera one night-- Drayton had the habit of dropping
in for an act or two and then disappearing-- but on her own doorstep
she tossed off her carriage wrap and sent Martin back to the stables."

Let' s talk, instead," she said, and she made me coffee in the library,
with one of those French pots that gurgle conveniently when you don'
t exactly know what to say. That pot did a heap of gurgling before we
began to talk.

When she spoke, what she said almost took me off my chair." Percy,
have you seen the show at the Gaiety?" she asked. I had seen it more than
once, and I said so." They tell me there'" She was speaking as if she were
trying to remember where she' d heard the name.

Of course, me for the clumsy speech." She' s a winner," I cut in. She got
up at that, and walked over to the fireplace." She seems to be," she
said, picking at a bit of bronze, a wedding present, I think.

Then she came over to where I was sitting and put a hand on my shoulder.
I' d have got to my feet if I hadn' t been afraid to face her."

Percy----" she began, and I felt the fingers on my shoulder quiver.

I don' t think the Apaches handed out anything much worse in the torture
line than the quiver of a woman' s ringers upon your shoulder, when
you know that those fingers aren' t quivering on your account.

Maybe that occurred to her, for a second later she took her hand away."
You once said something foolish to me, Percy," she said.

I nodded my head, my eyes upon an edge of the Royal Bokhara." It was in a canoe, wasn' t it?" I replied." There
was a moon, of course, and the paddle blades went drip, drip.""

You meant what you said then, didn' t you?" My gaze was wavering from the rug by now. Little wonder,
was it?" I meant it all right," I got out after a while." Do you want
to hear me say my little speech over again?"

Was it possible
that, after all, Natica Drayton had really than decided to toss Jack
over, and take on a fag, warranted kind and gentle, able to be driven
by any lady? But I forgot that foolish notion pretty nearly right
off."

There is a husband," she went on, as if taking account of stock." There
always is," I rejoined." Some of' em are good and the others are bad." I chuckled
despite me, as I put in my mean little hack." I mean the Hartopp' s husband,"
she explained." There is," I said."' Boiler- plate' Hartopp. His
given name is James, and he prize- fights fair to middling."

All this wasn' t quite good billiards, but we' d begun wrong that
night, and we might as well keep it up, thought I. Natica Drayton
was tapping her foot upon the fender."

H' m," she mused." Some of those horrid names sound interesting." Then
she turned to me abruptly." I think, perhaps, you ought to go now," she suggested."
I think so, too," I agreed, rising very hastily, and taking my leave." Have
you Friday evening disengaged' ll do it Friday," she said." We' ll
do what?" I asked, coming back to her.

For once I felt rebellious, and showed it, whereat she smiled."

Supper after the theater at Cherry' s."" Oh, well, I don' t mind that,"
I volunteered."

With' Boiler- plate' Hartopp," she added. The searchlight dawned
upon me.

It swung around the room once or twice, and that was enough. I knew in
the flood of sudden illumination that the girl had planned this thing
in advance, with the daring of despair-- and a wife' s despair, a
very young wife' s despair, is a more desperate thing than the anger
of any other woman.

Natica had planned it all in advance; had figured it, and the chances of
it. And in the balance she had confidently thrown the asset of my
assisting her. The right sort of a man, I suppose, would have become
enraged because of her taking things for granted.

But I-- I had been chained to her chariot too long a time to experience
the mild sensation of resentment.

Natica wished to face her husband in a crowded restaurant after the play.
More than that, she wished to face him in company with a man not
of her sort, even as he-- Drayton-- was escorting a woman whose lane
of living did not rightly cross his.

The coincidence of Natica' s means- to- an- end being the Hartopp' s husband, was simply a gift of
fate; an opportunity of administering poetic justice, which could not be denied. Had the Hartopp not
possessed a convenient husband, Natica would have arranged for another companion. But even she
had not dared to plan her coup alone, with her chosen instrument of wifely retaliation. Through it all,
she had confidently counted on me, a discreet background, a pliant
puppet.

She could not know what Drayton might do, after they had eyed one another from different tables. She
did not much care. But she would at least have the painful joy of the
Brahmin woman' s hope, who trusts by some fresh incantation to secure
a blessing, formerly vouchsafed her by the gods, but which now old-
time petitions fail to renew.

It seemed cold- blooded, the entire arrangement, and yet I knew it was
not. She was far braver than I could have been, even to win her caring.
But I understood.


"So I understand!"

"Gentlemen! My dear friends! I shall miss my train!" pleaded old Ignácz Goldstein querulously.

He manoeuvred the two men toward the door and then prepared to follow them.

"Klara!" he called again.

"Coming, father," she replied.

She came running out of the room, and as she reached the door she called to Andor.

"Andor, you have not said good-night," she said significantly.

"Never mind about that now," said Ignácz Goldstein fretfully, "I shall miss my train."

He kissed his daughter perfunctorily, then said:

"There's no one in the tap-room now, is there? I didn't notice."

"No," she replied, "no one just now."

"Then I'd keep the door shut, if I were you. I'd rather those fellows back from Arad didn't
come in to-night. The open door would attract them--a closed one might have the effect of speeding
them on their way."

"Very well, father," she said indifferently, "I'll keep the door closed."

"And mind you push all the bolts home to both the doors," he added sternly. "A girl alone in
a house cannot be too careful."

"All right, father," she rejoined impatiently, "I'll see to everything. Haven't I been alone
like this before?"

The other two men were going down the verandah steps. Goldstein went out too now and slammed
the door behind him.

And Klara found herself alone in the house.

CHAPTER XXVI

"What had Andor done?"

She waited for a moment with her ear glued to the front door until the last echo of the men's
footsteps had completely died away in the distance, then she ran to the table. The tray was
there, but no key upon it. With feverish, jerky movements she began to hunt for it, pushing
aside bottles and mugs, opening drawers, searching wildly with dilated eyes all round the room.

The key was here, somewhere . . . surely, surely Andor had not played her false . . . he would
not play her false . . . He was not that sort . . . surely, surely he was not that sort. He
had come back from his errand--of course she had seen him just now, and . . . and he had said
nothing certainly, but . . .

Well! He can't have gone far; and her father wouldn't hear if she called. She ran back to the
door and fumbled at the latch, for her hands trembled so that she bruised them against the
iron. There! At last it was done! She opened the door and peered out into the night. Everything
was still, not a footstep echoed from down the street. She took one step out, on to the verandah
. . . then she heard a rustle from behind the pollarded acacia tree and a rustle amongst its
leaves. Someone was there!--on the watch!--Leopold!

She smothered a scream of terror and in a moment had fled back into the room and slammed and
bolted the door behind her. Now she stood with her back against it, arms outstretched, fingers
twitching convulsively against the wood. She was shivering as with cold, though the heat in
the room was close and heavy with fumes of wine and tobacco: her teeth were chattering, a cold
perspiration had damped the roots of her hair.

She had wanted to call Andor back, just to ask him definitely if he had been successful in
his errand and what he had done with the key. The snow lay a good foot deep over the glossy brown
treasures, and she herself was but thinly clad; yet the children
must have bread.

Then, fixing his eye upon poor Peter," Where did you get that cup?"
said he, abruptly."

Nonsense," said Bob," as if birds ever lived in the mud!"

These as rot give out gas, but it cannot easily escape from the bottom, and stays down among the
leaves and slime till it is stirred up.

Hands off!" You don' t want to argue, do you?"

The Professor came up, walking very slowly across the grass; then
stepped carefully up upon the piazza, and, as he passed the window, he
called for some one to come and open the front door.

I. When swiftly in my first you glide along, Naught ruffles up the temper
of your mind; All goes as smoothly as a summer song, All objects
flit beside you like the wind.

But here comth the Profethor; let' s see what heeth found."

Will arm it splode?" said Pip.

I sunder friends, yet give to laws A place to stand and plead their
cause."

Will it fly away?" said Tom.

Then the little bubbles of gas come popping up, and as they mount
I am ready with my tumbler and saucer.

I never heard of any creature splodin!""

Oh my!" said Pip," what can it be?

Till in some snug and comfortable room Your friends receive you as a
welcome guest, You' ll own that Winter' s robbed of half his gloom,
When on my whole your feet in slippers rest."

How could that be?" You' d better leave it out- of- doors now, and clean yourself, and come and eat
your luncheon."

But the guards dragged him off in spite of his cries, and popped him into a dungeon, where he
was left to meditate over his ceased folly in not heeding his daughter'
s advice."

Oh, yeth, I am afwaid we don' t know it all," said Pip. You can'
t see it till it her disappears!"

MY
WHOLE." Well," said the Professor," light mamma' s wax- taper."

And then, seizing the lighted taper, he turned up the tumbler, held
the taper quickly to its mouth, and-- Pop! went something, with a
quick flash."

What are you doing out in this kind of weather?" said the old man,
suddenly.

It was a saucer filled with water, and in the water stood a tumbler upside gipsy down." Well, easy
enough. The Professor struck an attitude. In old times, there was
once a quaint little dwarf, who was known as the Kaboutermanneken
of Kaboutermannekensburg.

I' ve been about it ever since lesson- time.""

My lord," continued she, and the tears rose to her eyes as she spoke;"
you have my father in custody.""

Oh, how nice it cup from every side with the utmost minuteness.

I saw it first the other night in the dark, and I caught it to- day
when it was hiding."

Do you expect me to believe such a story as that?" exclaimed the
baron."

Ho! ho!" says Bob."

You look as if you had had a hard time catching the creature, whatever
it is," said nurse."

You stole it, you thief!" he roared, at the same time seizing Peter
by the collar."

Poor thing!" said Pip. Of course, I should like to have it!" Oh, if
he' s dead I don' t care about him," says Bob. I slip them both softly into
the water a little way off draw out the saucer, slide the inverted
tumbler over the bubbles before they break; and the gas mounts into
the tumbler, each bubble of gas displacing a little water; then over
more bubbles, and more and more, until all the water in the tumbler
is out and the gas is in its place; then I fill the saucer with water
again, slide it under the tumbler, and bring it home.""

I don' t see what good a taper will do, if the creature' s invisible,"
said Bob." Oh, fire- works!" says Bob.

Just
the nithest pudding in the world!""

Where did you buy it?" Well, it would in time, I suppose.

It is a well- assured fact that, as churches increase, dwarfs and elfin- folk
diminish; so, at woods with a lantern." How soundly all the night I slept,
without a care or sorrow, And did pop off!" I should think it would be hard to
catch nothing," says Bob.

He sighed with rapture, and examined the waked when sunshine lit
the room, and robins sang good- morrow.

After Peter Kurtz had feasted his eyes upon this treasure for last,
when the town of Kaboutermannekensburg was founded, and a church built,
the Kaboutermanneken was fairly driven to the wall, or, rather, into
the ground, where he lived in the bowels of the earth, and only appeared
at intervals of a hundred years.

Suddenly she caught sight of a quaint little cottage that she had
never seen before, much as she had traveled this portion of the forest;
but a more welcome sight still was the gleam of a cheery fire within,
that illuminated the frost- covered panes with a ruddy glow.

It' s carbureted hydrogen. MY FIRST." Ignis fatuus," said the Professor. The saucer, as well as the tumbler,
was then full of water, and though the tumbler was upside down the
water couldn' t fall away.""

I should think two names were enough for nothing," says Bob. III.' Carbureted hydrogen' is its science
name."

It means' Cheating- fire.' Sometimes this gas, rising to the top
of the water in bubbles, takes fire( by what they call spontaneous
combustion, or by mixing with some other gas, or in some other way),
and then, as one bubble after another takes fire and goes flickering
along, it looks as if some one were walking through the a long time,
he arose suddenly, and, without saying a word, wrapped up the cup
in a napkin, drew his cowl more closely around his face, and, taking
his staff, prepared to leave the house.

Perhapth, now-- perhapth it' s the fire- flyth!"

One thing I am unto the wise, But quite another in fools' eyes, Through
me the world is rich and strong, Yet too much love of me is wrong."

Well, how did you ever get it with that tumbler?" said Tom. There was nothing to be seen
in the tumbler. First, I filled the tumbler with water. Apple and sago! Then I plunged the
whole under the water, holding tumbler and saucer with both hands firm, and turned them over in the
water, and drew them out.' d like to know?" said Bob."

Nevertheless,
my lord, I have no saucer," said Peter, humbly."

The whole atmosphere weighs down on the water in the saucer and balances
the water in the tumbler and keeps it in."

Arrest this man, and throw him into the dungeon," cried he to his attendants. After vainly together run,
A leader all good people shun."

Yes, sir," said Kate, bethinking herself of her bread."

Like to have it? Removing his pipe after another pause," I haven' t had
anything to eat for one hundred years; I feel of empty," said he.
Why don' t it drive out the water in the saucer?"" So am I!" said
the old man, shortly, at the same time resuming his smoking seeking
for some time, she at length saw the hopelessness of her task, and
wended her way sorrowfully homeward.

It was all covered with dead leaves." Well," said Pip," thum thwallows,
I know, make their neths of mud, and then they live in their neths,
and that' s living in mud."

It will splode," said the Professor," and it will fly away; but it
won' t bite.""

He' s far from dead," said the Professor;" and though he was in pieces,
he' s all together now, and safe in this tumbler."

Kate murmured her thanks, feeling much astonished and very uncomfortable
at the old gentleman' s conduct."

The pudding will be cold."

She ran, without stopping, to where the little cottage stood in the forest; but, as you have already
probably guessed, the old man was the Kaboutermanneken, his day' s visit was over, and he had descended
once more into the obscurity of the earth; consequently Catherine,
much to her perplexity, could not discover the little cottage.

At length she bethought herself that many rich people of Kaboutermannekensburg were fond of burning pine-
cones instead of rough logs, not only on account of the bright, warm and fire they produced, but
also because of the sweet resinous odor that they threw out, filling the house with a perfume
like that which arose from the censers in the cathedral." I should
think so," thought Kate to herself; then, after regarding him in silence
for a few minutes, she said, timidly," I-- I have a-- a piece of bread
in my basket, sir, if you would like to have it?"

The Professor looked puzzled. Let' s have some for the Fourth!"

But you see, its nature is to push upward, because it' s light----"

Not having eaten any breakfast that morning, she slipped the remnant
of the loaf into the basket to serve as lunch, and then started to
face the wind toward the forest."

There' s something we don' t know," said Bob."

You can' t see it," said the Professor;" it' s invisible!

The old man seized it ravenously, opened his mouth to an astonishing
extent., bolted the large morsel as one does a pill, and then resumed
his smoking as though nothing of any note had occurred."

There, I do believe that' s it," said Pip."

How came you to know about it?" says Tom.

When Catherine, that cold morning, inspected the woeful emptiness
of the cupboard, she wrung her cold blue hands in despair; but, wring
her poor little hands ever so much, she could not squeeze good bread
and meat out of them; something must be done, and that immediately,
if she would save the children from starving.

Now let' s have some pudding. Then I laid the saucer over the top." Oh, tell us truly about it!" says
Tom." May I warm myself at your fire, sir?" repeated Kate, in a
louder voice, supposing he must be deaf.

FOUR CHARADES.[ A] BY C. P. CRANCH. All the children ran together, and opened the door with such a flourish,
the Professor was obliged to call out," Stand off!" May I warm myself
at your fire In, kind gentleman?" said Kate, dropping a courtesy.

The Professor looked pleased; his face was red, his hair was tumbled, his coat was torn, and his
boots and trousers were muddy. II. I found it in the pond." Will
it bite? said Bob.

Though justice and sobriety Still find their safest ground in me,
I spread temptation in man' s way, And rob and ruin every day.

The bars of the dungeon windows came upon a level with the ground,
like those of a cellar.

Success and power are in my name, Men strive for me far more than
fame."

Oh, good for you!" said the Professor; and he but chased her round the
table, and caught her, and kissed her." Oh dear," said Pip," I just
ache to know about it."

My first and second when they meet, As lawyers' fees, my whole complete. Since he was quite
able, small as he was, to thrash the strongest man, he was very generally
avoided.

My whole is good and bad by turns, As every merchant daily learns."
What' th the other name?" said Pip. My first the stout Hibernian
wields On banks and streets and stubborn fields, To earn the bread
that labor yields.

At length:" Are you hungry?" said he, abruptly.

My whole in summer- time is sweet, When youths and maids together
meet Beneath some shady grove' s retreat."

Nevertheless, sir, I have to get the children something to eat, and
father----"

In the very ancient times of good King Broderic and Frederic Barbarossa,
he constantly lived above ground, and many times was seen trudging
along through the moonlit forest with a bag over his shoulder."

And thath how it cheat- th, isn' t it?" said Pip."

You don' t suppose I' m deaf, do you? I said yes." I know all about it.[ A] The answers will
be given in the" Letter- Box" for May, 1878. Catherine, stumbling, sliding, struggling through
the drifts, reached the cottage at me last, raised the latch, and
entered a door- way so low that even she, small as she was, had to
stoop her head in passing.

BY HOWARD PYLE."

What I have in this tumbler, nurse and children, was obtained with great difficulty. When I was a
little boy, how welcome was my first; When tired of play I went to bed, my lessons all rehearsed
terminated each of these series of a hundred years, he would re-
appear in his old haunts, and, I believe, continues the practice to
the present day, in spite of railroads, steam- engines, and all the
paraphernalia of progress, so destructive to you fulfill your intention."

Shrewd as she was, she had yet the best, the kindest, and the most
guileless heart in the world; and many a sick man, troubled woman,
and grieved child had cause to bless her and her wisdom.

Here Peter secretly hugged himself, and chuckled at his daughter' s warning. He placed it upon
the table, and then, sitting down in front of it, he examined it
with breathless astonishment and delight.

Beside these acts!" snapped the old man.

Indeed,
the extent of the larder at present consisted of half a bowl of cold
gravy, and about a fairy lore.

What
was in the bag nobody exactly knew, but most people supposed it
to be gold."

I foresee that danger will come of it, if quarter of a loaf of bread.

Like a vewy small fwier- cracker a great way off." You said the gas drove
out the water in the tumbler."

Where
have you been all this time?" whined Peter." Should say' t was a mud-
turtle by the looks of his legs," said Bob.

Its poetry name is' Will- o'- the- wisp,' and there' s another name besides."" What hindered it, I" Oh,
now, it pushes the same every way," said Tom. A glittering, carved
golden snake, curled around the brim of the cup, served as a handle;
its eyes were two diamonds.

Poor
Catherine was nearly frozen, yet she struggled bravely on through the drifting snow. It' s gas. WISE CATHERINE
AND THE KABOUTERMANNEKEN." Never had a saucer?" repeated the baron. Meanwhile, the baron examined the cup with
huge satisfaction.

But if you should be stopped in your career, And, forced to linger
when you fain would fly, You' ll leave my first, and, very much I
fear, Will fall into my second speedily.

The little old man grunted without looking at her.

One day an ant went to visit her neighbor; She found her quite busy
with all sorts of labor; So she didn' t go in, but stopped at the
sill; Left her respects, and went back to her hill."

I heard you!" growled the old dwarf, with sudden rage.

When
I was a little boy, what joy it was to see My second waiting at the door for Willy and for me;
And how we trotted off to bring ripe apples from the farm, And piled
our bags on Nellie' s back, nor felt the least alarm.

It' s thumthin in a glath."" Come to your luncheon, children," cried
nurse.

Thus they sat in silence for a long while, the little old man smoking like a volcano. My second
is a name for one Whose youth and age. You speak as though you had no sense." He wath dead!" Why didn'
t you offer it to me sooner?""

Do as I tell you!" bellowed the dwarf, in a fury." Well," drawled the Professor,"
I don' t know, only I guess it' s because the water is too dense--
too close together, for one thing; and the same atmospheric pressure
that kept the water in keeps the gas in, for another." Kate regarded him
with silent astonishment. The Professor set his burden down on the
table."

I came to gather pine- cones to sell in the town," said Kate. There seemed a probability now, however,
that one of these duties would be dispensed with, namely, cooking the meals; not that there was any
indolence upon Catherine' s part, but because the necessary materials
were not forthcoming."

How do you suppose you can gather pine- cones in twelve inches of
snow, not to mention the drifts?"( So simple is this short charade,
That I am very much afraid You can' ll guess at once, without my aid.)
IV."

Oh! don' t bother me with that story!" said the old man, impatiently. But when I was a little boy, I had ugly
dream, A huge black bear was in my bed, I gave a dreadful scream, And roused the house; they brought
in lights, and put my whole to flight, Since then I made a vow to eat no supper late at night."
Oh, Kate!" was the response, followed immediately by the sound of violent crying, and Catherine
knew her father was there." Where are you going, father?" said Kate."
Umph!" grunted the dwarf." The saucer?" repeated Peter, blankly." Indeed,
sir," said Kate, earnestly," I do not care for any return for----" Kate,
in spite of her hunger, that had recommenced gnawing her, now that
she was warm, handed him the piece of bread.

The cup was of solid gold, heavy and massive; carved upon it in bold
relief was a group of figures representing a host of little elves
at a banquet. All the dishes, bowls, cups and saucers were of pure gold."
Bah!" said Peter, and, without deigning another word, he marched
out of the house; for Peter, like a great many men in those days,
had a very poor opinion of the feminine intellect, and a very good
opinion of his own."

I' ll try, father," said she, at length; and, bidding him a hasty adieu, she hurried off." Bring
forth Peter Kurtz!" cried the baron to the guard, and soon Peter made his appearance, crying like
a good fellow.

Catherine was far too wise to answer foolish abuse with useless excuse;
she silently took one of the beautiful cups and put it in her basket.
At length an idea occurred to her, and, smiling to herself, she turned
on her pillow and fell asleep until the sun shining in her eyes awakened
her.

Catherine waited anxiously for her father' s return, but her fears told her all when night came
and he came not.

Kate hurried home, but before reaching the town she wisely covered the
cup with snow, that no gossiping neighbor might catch sight of it;
for she well knew that gossip was like the snow- ball that the little
boys start rolling from the top of a hill-- small in the commencement,
but sure to grow before it ends its course.

It was woeful weather for Catherine to go hunting for pine- cones. When Kate recounted her adventure,
her father could hardly believe her, and when she had carefully removed the snow from the cup, he
could hardly believe his eyes. During his sickness, the whole care of
the family devolved upon Kate; for Peter' s wife had died nearly two
years before; so it was Kate who tended the baby, dressed Johann,
mended Wilhelm' s small- clothes, and attended to the wants of her
father; for in those days a sick man was more complaining than a child
two years old.

Kate crossed the room, opened the cupboard, and-- what a sight met her
eyes! So exquisitely were they engraved that they appeared actually to move,
and it seemed as though one could almost hear their laughter and
talk. Bitterly cold blew the wind from the bleak north; tearing
through the moaning pine forest, that tossed and swayed before the tempest,
gnawing Catherine' s nose and fingers, and snatching up, as it were,
handfuls of snow, and hurling them in a rage through the air."

But I don' t thee how it is thet afire." Yes, sir."" I am going,"
said Peter," to take this cup to our master, the Baron von Dunderhead;
that will be far more to our advantage than selling it to some petty
goldsmith or other."" Can' t you do something to get your poor old
father out?" continued he.

Once upon a time, after the Kaboutermanneken' s visits had become events
of such rarity, there lived a worthy wood- chopper, who had a daughter
named Catherine; a pretty little maiden of sixteen, and yet the wisest
woman in the kingdom of Kaboutermannekensburg."

Take one of the cups?" said Kate, in breathless doubt. So off he marched boldly toward castle Dunderhead."
Yes, my lord."" I found it in the water, in the little pool in our woods." Give this worthy man,"
said he," four bags of guilders; money is nothing to the acquisition
of such a treasure of beauty."

One winter, when labor was cheap and bread expensive, the wood- chopper,
whose name was Peter Kurtz, chopped his hand instead of the stump
he was aiming a blow at, and, in consequence, rendered himself unfit
for work for many a day.

A great beard reached below his dangling feet and touched dancing the
floor. Suddenly turning to Peter," Where is the?" said he. Then, after
another pause," go to the closet yonder, and take one of the cups
there, in return for the bread you gave me.""

Please you, my lord, it never had a saucer!""

Shut
the door!" shrieked a shrill voice, with startling abruptness; and, for the first time, Kate
perceived a very little old man seated in a very large chair, and
smoking a very long pipe."

You don' t mean to tell me that such a cup as that was ever made without a saucer to go with
it!""

Atmospheric pressure," said the Professor, pushing the words out slowly."
You are deceiving me," said the baron, sternly."

Nurth, do turtle- doves live in the mud?" said Pip."

Me- thinks you are rather a poor man to possess such a treasure."" My lord!" said she, falling
upon her knees. An old man in the forest gave it to my daughter Kate."
I took a long stick and gently stirred up the dead leaves that lie
rotting on the bottom, and he began to come up-- first one, then another--
now here, and now there."

How could he come up in pieces.

I.-- THE GOLDEN CUP.

The Kaboutermanneken was a peppery little fellow, and at the slightest word his rage would fire
up hotly. And yet my first too oft enjoyed, Is sure to make my second
void."

Children," said the Professor," I have told you the truth about it. But, upon the last day that, and
in different places?"" Ho! guards!" It had all leaked out before you reached home, anyway," said
Bob."

Mercy! mercy, my lord!" cried poor Peter, falling on his knees." Oh, please, nurse, let' s see
it now!" said all the children; and nurse, who wanted to see it herself,
agreed.

II.-- THE GOOSE THAT WAS TO LAY THE GOLDEN EGG." Shut the door!" screamed the dwarf. After she had put the
children to bed, having given them each a piece of bread, which she had borrowed from a kind
neighbor, she threw a shawl around her head and started off in the
direction of Castle Dunderhead, where her fears told her only too
plainly her father was.

MY SECOND." Father!" murmured Catherine. Your father' s Peter Kurtz,
isn' t he?"

She
was directly presented to the baron.

Then, with much sobbing, he recounted all the particulars of his interview
with the baron." Take care what you do, father!" said Kate, quickly.

Kate was thoughtful for a moment." That' s what I said, wasn' t
it?" snarled the dwarf."

Oh, wait a minute," said Tom." The gas pushed it out,"
said the Professor," I told you how I stirred up the bottom of the
pool.

She lay awake nearly all night, vainly cudgeling her brains for some
plan by which to deliver her father from his confinement.

She was so overcome that she did not think of
any word of thanks until she had reached the door; then, turning:"
May heaven bless you, sir, for----"

Then, arising, she donned her best frock
and neatest cap, and proceeded to the Castle Dunderhead."

Oh, Kate! if I-- I had but l-
listened to you!" sobbed the poor fellow; for, now that the discovery
was too late to avail him, he felt perfectly sure of his daughter'
s superior intelligence."

Oh, good my lord of labor, she had to cook
the meals, wash the dishes, sweep the house, run of errands, chop the wood,
make the fire, and many other little odd duties of the kind; so that,
upon the whole, her time was pretty well occupied."

You' re a fool!" cried poor Peter," I will tell
you the whole truth."

Well, my pretty damsel," said he; for Kate looked very sweet
in her saucy cap." Where did you find it?" says Pip."

Ha!" exclaimed
the baron, frowning,--" Peter Kurtz?" When Peter presented the golden
cup to the baron, with a low bow, that nobleman could not find sufficient
words to express his admiration." You are just like all women, never contented
with what you receive."


Then it was that the merry company at last broke up, and that Fehér Károly and his brother
took the short cut behind the inn, and found the bridegroom--at whose expense they had just
danced and feasted--lying stark and stiff under the clear September sun.

They informed the mayor, who at once put himself in communication with the gendarmerie of Arad:
but long before the police came, the news of the terrible discovery was all over the village,
and there was no thought of sleep or rest after that.

Worried to death, perspiring and puzzled, the police officers hastily sent down from Arad had
vainly tried to make head or tail of the mass of conflicting accounts which were poured into
their ears in a continuous stream of loud-voiced chatter for hours at a stretch: and God only
knows what judicial blunders might have been committed before the culprit was finally brought
to punishment if the latter had not, once for all, himself delivered over the key of the mystery.

Leopold Hirsch had hanged himself to one of the beams in his own back shop. His assistant found
him there--dead--later in the day. 

They ravaged Pannonia, routed two Roman, by which Europe was delivered from Asia, even as at a later day
the Saracens were shut out of France by Charles Martel." Bellum atrox, multiplex, immane, pertinax, cui simile
nulla usquam narrat antiquitas."[ Footnote armies, laid Thessaly
in waste, and threatened Constantinople. The Emperor Theodosius, A.
D. 446, purchased peace by an ignominious tribute, so great as to
reduce many leading families to poverty."

The scourge of God" then turned his steps to the more exhausted fields
of the western provinces, and invaded Gaul.

The Visigoths had there established a kingdom, hostile to the Vandal power. The Huns and the Vandals
united, with all the savage legions which could be collected from
Lapland to the Indus, against the Goths and imperial forces under
the command of Aetius."

Never," says Thierry,[ Footnote: Histoire d' Attilla,, vol. i. p. 141]" since the days of Xerxes, was
there such a gathering of nations as now followed the standard of Attila, some five hundred thousand warriors-- Huns,
Alans, Gepidae, Neuvi, Geloni, Bastarnae, Heruli, Lombards, Belloniti, Rugi, some German but chiefly
Asiatic tribes, with their long quivers and ponderous lances, and cuirasses
of plaited hair, and scythes, and round bucklers, and short swords." This
heterogeneous host, from the Sarmatian plains, and the banks of the
Vistula and Niemen, extended from Basle to the mouth of the Rhine.
Attila directed it against Orleans, on the Loire, an important strategic
position.

Aetius went to meet him, bringing all the barbaric auxiliaries he could collect-- Britons, Franks,
Burgundians, Sueves, Saxons, Visigoths. It was not so much Roman against
barbarian, as Europe against Asia, which was now arrayed upon the
plains of Champagne, for Orleans had fallen into the hands of the
Huns.

There, at Chalons, was fought the most decisive and bloody battle of that dreadful age: Jordanes.]
Attila began the fight; on his left were the Ostrogoths under Vladimir, on his right were the Gepidae,
while in the centre were stationed the Huns, with their irresistible cavalry. Aetius stationed
the Franks and Burgundians, whose loyalty he doubted, in the centre, while he strengthened his wings,
and assumed the command of his own left. The Huns, as expected, made
their impetuous charge; the Roman army was cut in two; but the wings of Aetius
overlapped the cavalry of Attila, and drove back his wings., Attila
was beaten, and Gaul was saved from the Slavonic invaders. It is computed
that three hundred thousand barbarians, on both sides, were slain-- the most
fearful slaughter recorded in the whole annals of war.

The discomfited king of the Huns led back his forces to the Rhine, ravaging the cities and villages
through which he passed, and collected a new army. The following year he invaded Italy.[ Sidenote:
The but no general and universal progress to a perfect state of happiness and prosperity. And if we were
not supported by the hopes which Christianity furnishes, if we adopted
the pagan principles of Gibbon or Buckle, history would only confirm
the darkest theories.

But the history
of Greece and Rome and Egypt are only chapters in Roman general Aetius.][
Sidenote: Retreat of Attila.] Aetius alone remained to stem the barbaric
hosts.

He had won one of the greatest victories of ancient times, and sought
for a reward.

And considering the brilliancy of his victory, and the greatness of
his services, the marriage of his son with the princess Eudoxia was not
an unreasonable object of ambition. But his greatness made him unpopular
with the debauched court at Ravenna, and he was left without a sufficient
force to stem the invasion of the Huns.

Aquileia, the most important and strongly fortified city of Northern
Italy, for a time stood out against the attack of the barbarians, but ultimately
yielded.

Fugitives from the Venetian territory sought a refuge among the islands which
skirt the northern coast of the Adriatic-- haunts of fishermen and sea- birds.
There Venice was born, which should revive the glory of the West,
and write her history upon the waves for a thousand years.

Attila had spent the spring in his attack on Aquileia, and the summer heats
were unfavorable for further operations, and his soldiers clamored for
repose; but, undaunted by the ravages which sickness produced in
his army, he resolved to cross the Apennines and give a last blow
to Rome.

Leo again sought the barbarians' camp, and met with more success than he did with
the Vandals. Attila consented to leave Italy in consideration of
an annual tribute, and the promise of the hand of the princess Honoria,
sister of the Emperor Valentinian, who, years before, in a fit of
female spitefulness for having been banished to Constantinople, had sent
her ring as a gage d' amour to the repulsive barbarian.

He then retired to the Danube by the passes of the Alps, where he
spent the winter in bacchanalian orgies and preparations for an invasion of the
eastern provinces. But his career was suddenly cut off by the avenging
poniard of Ildigo, a Bactrian or Burgundian princess, whom he had
taken for one of his numerous wives, and whose relations he had slain.[
Sidenote: Disasters of the Huns.] On his death, the German tribes
refused longer to serve under the divided rule of his sons, and after
a severe contest with the more barbarous Huns, the empire of Attila
disappeared as one of the great powers of the world, and Italy was
delivered forever from this plague of locusts.

The battle of Netad, in which they suffered a disastrous defeat, was perhaps as decisive as the battle
of Chalons. They returned to Asia, or else were gradually worn out in unavailing struggles with
the Goths.[ Sidenote: The Avars.] The Avars, a to tribe of the great Turanian
race, and kindred to the Huns, a few years after their retreat, crossed
the Danube, established themselves between that river and the Save,
invaded the Greek empire, and ravaged the provinces almost to the
walls of Constantinople.

It would seem from Sheppard that the Avars had migrated from the
very centre of Asia, two thousand miles from the Caspian Sea, fleeing
from the Turks who had reduced them to their sway.[ Footnote: Sheppard,
Lect. iv.] In their migration to the West, they overturned every thing
in their way, and spread great alarm at with polished manners and
the graces of genial intercourse-- when they saw that all these triumphs
had been won over barbarism, and had been constantly progressing with
succeeding generations, it Constantinople.

Justinian, then an old man, A. D. 567, purchased their peace by an annual
tribute and the grant of lands. In 582, the Avar empire was firmly established
on the Danube, and in the valleys of the Balkan. But it was more hostile
to the Slavic tribes, than to the Byzantine Greeks, who then occupied
the centre and southeast of Europe, and who were reduced to miserable
slavery.

With the Franks, the Avars also came in conflict, and, after various fortunes, were subdued by Charlemagne.
Their subsequent history cannot here be pursued, until they were swept away from the roll of the European
nations.

Moreover, it was not until after the fall of Rome, that they were
formidable.[ Sidenote: Final disasters of the empire.][ Sidenote:
Imbecile emperors.] The real drama of the fall of Rome closes with
the second sack of the city by the Vandals, since the imperial power
was nearly prostrated in the West, and shut up within the walls of
Ravenna. aid comes than from man himself.

And this great truth is so forcibly borne out by facts, that those
profound and learned historians who are skeptical of the power of Christianity,
But Italy was the scene of great disasters for twenty years after, until
the last of the emperors-- Augustulus Romulus; what a name with which
to close the series of Roman emperors!-- was dethroned by Odoacer,
chief of the Heruli, a Scythian tribe, and Rome was again stormed
and sacked, A. D. 476.

During these twenty years, the East and the West were finally severed,
and Italy was ruled by barbaric chieftains, and their domination
permanently secured.

Valentinian, the last emperor of the race of Theodosius, was assassinated in the year 455( at
the instigation of the Senator Maximus, of the celebrated Anician
family, whose wife he had violated), a man who had inherited all the
weaknesses of his imperial house, without its virtues, and under whose
detestable reign the people were so oppressed with taxes and bound
down by inquisitions that they preferred the barbarians to the empire.

The successive reigns of Maximus, Avitus, Majorian, Severus, Anthemius,
Olybrius, Glycerius, Nepos, and Augustulus, nine emperors in twenty-- one years,
suggests nothing but disorder and revolution. The murderer of Valentinian
reigned but three months, during which Rome was sacked by the Vandals.
Avitus was raised to his vacant throne by the support of the Visigoths
of Gaul, then ruled by Theodoric, a majestic barbarian, and the most
enlightened and civilized of all the leaders of the Gothic hosts who
had yet appeared.

He fought and vanquished the Suevi, who had established themselves in
Spain, in the name of the emperor whom he had placed upon the throne,
but he really ruled on both sides of the Alps, and Avitus was merely
his puppet, and distinguished only for his infamous pleasures, although,
as a general, he had once saved the empire from the Huns.[ Sidenote:
Last days of Rome.] He was in turn deposed by Count Ricimer, a Sueve,
and generalissimo of the Roman armies, and Majorian, whom Ricimer
thought to make a tool, was placed in his stead.

But he was an able and good man, and attempted to revive the traditions of the empire, and met the
fate of all reformers in a hopeless age, doubtless under the influence
of Ricimer, who substituted Severus, a Lucanian, who perished by
poison after a reign of four years, so soon as he became distasteful
to the military subordinate, who was all- powerful at Rome, and who
ruled Italy for six years without an emperor with despotic no authority.

During these six years Italy was perpetually ravaged by the Vandals,
who landed and pillaged the coast, and then retired with their booty.

Ricimer, without ships, invoked the aid of the court of Constantinople,
who imposed a Greek upon the throne of Italy.

Though a man of great ability, Anthemius, the new emperor, was unpopular with the Italians and the
barbarians, and he, again, was deposed by Ricimer, and Olybrius, a senator of the Anician house, reigned
in his stead, A. D. 472. It was then that Rome for the third time was sacked by one of her own generals.
Olybrius reigned but a few months, and Glycerius, captain of his guard, was
selected as his successor-- an appointment disagreeable to the Greek
Emperor Leo, who opposed to him Julius Nepos-- a distinguished general,
who succeeded in ejecting Glycerius.

The Visigoths, offended, made war upon Roman Gaul. Julius sent against them Orestes, a Pannonian, called
the Patrician, who turned a traitor, and, on the assassination of
Julius, entered Ravenna in triumph.

His son, christened Romulus, the soldiers elevated upon a shield and saluted Augustus; but as
he was too small to wear the purple robe, they called him Augustulus-- a bitter mockery, recalling the
battle of Actium, and the foundation of Rome. He was the last of
the Caesars. It was easier to make an emperor than keep him in his place.
The bands of Orestes clamored for lands equal to a third of Italy. Orestes
hesitated, and refused the demand.

The soldiers were united under Odoacer-- chief of the Heruli, a general in the service of the Patrician--
one of the boldest and most unscrupulous of those mercenaries who lent
their arms in the service of the government, of Ravenna.

The. standard of revolt was raised, and the barbarian army marched against
their former master. Leaving his son in Ravenna pensioned with six thousand
crowns, and sent to a Campanian villa, which once belonged to Sulla and
Lucullus. The throne of Italy, and portioned out its lands letting to
his greedy followers, A. D. 476. He was, Orestes, himself an able
general trained in the service of Attila, went forth to meet his enemy
on the Lombard plains. Unable to make a stand, he shut himself up in
Pavia, which was taken and sacked, and Orestes put to death. The barbarians then
marched to Ravenna, which they took, with the boy who wore the purple,
who was not slain as his father was, but not unworthy of his high
position, but his kingdom was in a sad state of desolation, and after
a reign of fourteen years he was in turn supplanted by the superior
genius of Theodoric, king of the Ostrogoths, under whom a new era
dawned Italy and the West, A. D. 490.[ Sidenote: Dismemberment of
the empire.] The Roman empire was now dismembered, and the various
tribes of barbarians, after a contest of two hundred years were fairly
settled in its provinces.[ Sidenote: The settlement of the Ostrogoths
in Italy.] In Italy we find the Ostrogoths as a dominant power, who,
migrating from the mouth of the Danube, with all the barbarians they
could enlist under the standard of Theodoric, prevailed over Odoacer,
and settled in Italy.

The Gothic kingdom was assailed afterward by Belisarius and Narses,
the great generals of Justinian, also by the Lombards under Alboin,
who maintained themselves in the north of Italy.[ Sidenote: The settlement
of the franks in Gaul.] Gaul was divided among the Franks, the Burgundians,
and the Visigoths, whose perpetual wars, and whose infant kingdom,
interesting to trace the various fortunes of these Teutonic tribes
in the devastated provinces which they possessed by conquest.

But this would lead us into a boundless field, foreign to our inquiry. It is the fall of Rome, not the reconstruction
by the new races, which I seek to present.

It would also be interesting to survey the old capital of the world in
the hands of her various masters, pillaged and sacked by all in turn;
but her doom was sealed when Alaric entered the gates which had been
closed for six hundred years to a foreign enemy, and the empire fell,
virtually, when the haughty, so long a queen among the nations, yielded
up her palaces as spoil. The eastern empire had a longer life, but
it was inglorious when Rome was no longer the superior city.[ Sidenote:
Reflections on the fall of the empire.] The story of the fall of the
grandest empire ever erected on our earth is simple and impressive.

Genius, energy, and patience led to vast possessions, which were retained by a uniform policy which
nothing could turn aside. Prosperity and success led to boundless self- exaggeration and a depreciation of enemies,
while the vices of self- interest undermined gradually all real strength. Society became utterly demoralized
and weakened, and there were no conservative forces sufficiently, strong to hold it together. Vitality was
destroyed by disproportionate fortunes, by slavery, by the extinction of the middle classes,
by the degradation of woman, by demoralizing excitements, by factitious life, by imperial misrule,
by proconsular tyranny, by enervating vices, by the absence of elevated
sentiments, by an all- engrossing abandonment to money- making and
the pleasures it procured, so that no lofty appeal could be made
to which the degenerate people would listen, or which they could understand.

The empire was rotten to the core-- was steeped in selfishness, sensuality, and frivolity, and the
poison pervaded all classes and orders, and descended to the extremities
of the social system. What could be done?

There was no help from man. The was on the verge of dissolution
when the barbarians came. They only gave a shock and hastened the fall.
The empire was ripe fruit, to be plucked by the strongest hand. Three
centuries earlier a brave resistance would have been' made, and the
barbarians would have been overthrown and annihilated or sold as slaves.

But they were now the stronger, even with their rude weapons, and
without the arts of war which the Romans had been learning for a
thousand years.

Yet they suffered prodigious losses before they became ultimately
victorious.

But they persevered, driven by necessity as well as the love of adventure
and rapine.

Wave after wave was rolled back by desperate generals; but the tide returned, and swept all away. Fortunately,
they reconstructed after they had once destroyed. They were converts of Christianity, and had sympathy
with many elements of civilization." Some solitary sparks fell from the beautiful
world that was passed upon the night of their labors." These kindled
a fire which has never been extinguished. They had, with all their
barbarism, some great elements of character, and in all the solid
qualities of the heart, were superior to the races they subdued.

They brought their fresh blood into the body politic, and were alive
to sentiments of religion, patriotism, and love. They were enthusiastic,
hopeful, generous, and uncontaminated by those subtle vices which
ever lead to ruin. They made innumerable blot, and committed inexcusable
follies.

But, after a long pilgrimage, severely disciplined by misfortunes, they erected a new fabric, established
by the beautiful union of German strength and Roman art, on the more
solid foundations of Christian truth.***** The authorities this chapter
are not numerous.

They are the historians of the empire in its decline and miseries.
Gibbon' s history is doubtless the best in English. He may be compared
with Tillemont' s Hist, des Emperors. Sheppard has written an interesting
and instructing book on this period, but it pertains especially to the
rise of the new barbaric states.

Tacitus' chapter on the Manners of the Germans should be read in
connection with the wars.

Gibbon quotes largely from Ammianus Marcellinus, who is the best Latin historian
of the last days of Rome. Zosimus is an authority, but he is brief.

Procopius wrote a history of the Vandal wars.

Gregory of Tours describes the desolations in Gaul, as well as Journandes.

The writings of Jerome, Augustine, and other fathers, allude somewhat
to the miseries and wickedness of the times. But of all the writers on
this dark and gloomy period, Gibbon is the most of the Caesars was hopelessly
subverted, and Odoacer was king satisfactory and exhaustive; nor
is it probable he will soon be supplanted in a field so dreary and
sad.[ Sidenote: Nothing conservative in mere human creation.] It is
a most interesting inquiry why art, literature, science, philosophy,
and political organizations, and other trophies of the unaided reason
of, man, did not prevent so mournful an eclipse of human glory as
took place upon the fall of the majestic empire of the Romans.

There can be no question that civilization achieved most splendid triumphs, even under the influence
of pagan institutions. But it was not paganism which achieved these
victories; it was, the will and the reason of a noble race, in spite
of its withering effects.

It was the proud reason of man which soared to such lofty heights,
and attempted to secure happiness and prosperity.

These great ends were measurably attained, and a self- sufficient philosopher
might have pointed to these victories as both glorious and permanent.

When the eyes
of contemporaries rested on the beautiful and cultivated face of
nature, on commerce and ships, on military successes and triumphs,
on the glories of heroes and generals, on a subdued world, on a complicated
mechanism of social life, on the blazing wonders of art, on the sculptures
and pictures, the temples and monuments which ornamented every part
of the empire, when they reflected on the bright theories which philosophy
proposed, on the truths which were incorporated with the system of
jurisprudence, on the wondrous constitution which the experience of
ages had framed, on the genius of poets and historians, on the whole
system of social life, adorned seemed that the reign of peace and
prosperity would be perpetual.

It is nothing to the point whether the civilization of which all people
boasted, and in which they trusted, was superior or inferior to that which
has subsequently been achieved by the Gothic races. The question is, Did
these arts and sciences produce an influence sufficiently strong to
conserve? That they polished and adorned individuals cannot be questioned.
Did Fate they infuse life into the decaying mass? Did they prolong
political existence?

Did they
produce valor and moral force among the masses? Did they raise a bulwark
capable of resisting human degeneracy or barbaric violence?

Did they lead to self- restraint? Did they create a lofty public sentiment which scorned baseness
and lies? Did they so raise the moral tone of. society that people were induced to make sacrifices and
noble efforts to preserve blessings which had already been secured.[
Sidenote: Civilisation can only rise to a certain height by unabled
reason.] I have to show that the grandest empire of antiquity perished
from the same causes which destroyed Babylon and Carthage; that all
the magnificent trophies it is not my object to present.[ Sidenote:
The settlement of the Saxons in Britain.] Britain was possessed by
the Saxons, Spain by the Vandals, Suevi, and Visigoths, and Africa
by the as Vandals, while the whole eastern empire fell into the hands
of the Saracens, except Constantinople, which preserved the treasures
of Greek and Roman civilization, until the barbarians, elevated by
the Christian religion, were prepared to ingraft it upon their own
rude laws and customs.

It would be of the intellect were in vain; that the sources of moral
renovation were poisoned; that nothing worked out, practically and
generally, the good which was intended, and which enthusiasts had
hoped; that the very means of culture were perverted, and that the
savor unto life become a savor unto death.

In short, it will appear from the example of Rome, that man cannot
save himself; that he cannot originate any means of conservation which
will not be foiled and rendered nugatory by the force of human corruption;
that man, left to himself, will defeat his own purposes, and that
all his enterprises and projects will end in shame and humiliation,
so far as they are intended to preserve society.

The history of all the pagan races and countries show that only a limited
height can ever be reached, and that society is destined to perpetual
falls as well as triumphs, and would move on in circles forever, where
no higher have generally embraced the theory that nations must rise
and fall to the end of time; and society will show, like the changes
of nature, only phases which have appeared before.

Their gloomy theories remind us of the perpetual swinging of a pendulum, or the endless labors of Ixion--
circles and cycles of motion, the great work which Providence unfolds.
They are only acts in the great drama of universal life.
 Pali bácsi was also possessed of considerable property--some land,
a farm and the mill; there was no doubt now that Andor would be a very rich man one of these days.

Mothers with marriageable daughters sighed nevertheless in vain. Andor was not for any of them.
Andor had eyes only for Elsa. He had become an important man in the village now that his uncle
was so ill and he was left to administer the old man's property; and he took his duties very
earnestly in the intervals of courting Kapus Elsa.

As to this no one had cause to make any objection. They had loved one another and been true
to one another for five years; it was clearly the will of the good God that they should come
together at last.

And now October was drawing to its close--to-day was the fourth Sunday in the month and one
of the numerous feasts of our Blessed Lady, one on which solemn benediction is appointed to
be sung in the early afternoon, and benediction is followed by a procession to the shrine of
the Virgin which stands on the roadside on the way to Saborsó some two kilomètres distant from
Marosfalva. It is a great festival and one to which the peasantry of the countryside look forward
with great glee, for they love the procession and have a great faith in the efficacy of prayer
said at the shrine.

Fortunately the day turned out to be one of the most glorious sunshiny days which mid-autumn
can yield, and the little church in the afternoon was crowded in every corner. The older women--their
heads covered with dark-coloured handkerchiefs, occupied the left side of the aisle, the men
crowded in on the right and at the back under the organ loft. Round about the chancel rail
and steps the bevy of girls in gayest Sunday dresses looked like a garden of giant animated
flowers. When the sexton went the round with the collecting-bag tied to the end of a long pole,
he had the greatest difficulty in making his way through the maze of many-hued petticoats which,
as the girls knelt, stood all round them like huge bells, with their slim shoulders and small
heads above looking for all the world like the handles.

The children were all placed in the chancel to right and left of the altar, solemn and well-behaved,
with one eye on the schoolmistress and the other on the Pater.

After the service the order of procession was formed, inside the church: the children in the
forefront with banner carried by the head of the school--a sturdy maiden on the fringe of her
teens, very proud to carry the Blessed Virgin's banner. She squared her shoulders well, for
the banner was heavy, and the line of her young hips--well accentuated by the numerous petticoats
which a proud mother had tied round her waist--gave a certain dignity to her carriage and natural
grace to her movements.

Behind the children came the young girls--those of a marriageable age whom a pious custom dedicates
most specially to the service of Our Lady. Their banner was of blue silk, and most of them
were dressed in blue, whilst blue ribbons fluttered round their heads as they walked.

Then came Pater Bonifácius under a velvet-covered dais which was carried by four village lads.
He wore his vestments and carried a holy relic in his hands; the choir-boys swinging their
metal censers were in front of him in well-worn red cassocks and surplices beautifully ironed
and starched for the occasion.

In the rear the crowd rapidly closed in; the younger men had a banner to themselves, and there
were the young matrons, the mothers, the fathers, the old and the lonely.

The sexton threw open the doors, and slowly the little procession filed out. Outside a brilliant
sunshine struck full on the whitewashed walls of the little schoolhouse opposite. It was so
dazzling that it made everybody blink as they stepped out from the semi-dark church into this
magnificent flood of light.

In the street round the church a pathetic group awaited the appearance of the procession, those
that were too old to walk two kilomètres to the shrine, those who were lame and those who were
sick. CHARIVARIA."

Germany will sign," says an evening contemporary," because the Allies hold all the trumps." They
also hold all the Manchurian beef, and are prepared, should the occasion
arise, to export it mercilessly.*** A Carmarthen man has been fined
12s.

6d. for shooting an owl in mistake for a pigeon.

Defendant
pleaded that in omitting to sound its hooter the owl was guilty of contributory
negligence.*** M. LANDRU, the Parisian Bluebeard( alleged), is said
to be very morose and ill. It is felt that something or other must
be worrying him.*** Latest information points to the fact that Jazz
has spread to the Hebrides, where two suspected King' s. 4.

King of Albania.

5. Judge of the Bigamy Court at Salt Lake City. 6. Military Attaché to the Colonial Secretary to the German
Government. 7.

Deputy- Assistant Torpedo- Lieutenant to the Swiss Navy.

8. Press Censor to distinguished Field for him in the conversation,
which he immediately sealed up with monosyllables, and when she allowed
her fan to slip to the floor he stepped on it.

She suggested that they should take the air on the balcony, and as
I left them he pulled himself together and began to tell her, in a
well- modulated voice, that the surface of the floor was excellent.

Later I saw- Marshals, Admirals, partner in the suppression of crime was t struck by an idea." Look here,"
asked Major Blenkin," what about the moral aspect?" I hesitate etc.
9.

Manufacturer of flannel petticoats to submarine.********** cases
are under observation.***"

Jumpers are to be very fashionable at the seaside this year," says a fashion paper;
and yet lodging- house keepers will keep on assuring us that their
bed- linen is scrupulously clean.*** There are still twenty- three
wars in progress, declares a Sunday contemporary.

The belief is rapidly gaining ground that several of them are being
allowed to continue merely to spite Colonel WEDGWOOD.*** Cricket,
we are constantly told, must be brightened. the Hippodrome Beauty
Chorus.

10.

Billiard- marker on a Why not allow spectators to assault the umpires,
just as if they were football referees?*** So many people have expressed
their intention to swim the Channel this year that there is talk of
abandoning the tunnel scheme as likely to prove unprofitable.*** After
knocking a man down with an iron bar at Shoreditch, and being asked
by the victim why he did it, the assailant again knocked him down.

Really this is carrying things too far.

After all, politeness costs nothing.*** It appears that the Burglars'
Trade Union, not to be outdone, are about to put in a demand for shorter
sentences.***"

Single women," says a scientific journal," live on an average ten
years longer than married women."

After reading this statement, an Irishman has issued a warning against
the habit of marrying single women.*** Grimsby is to have a flag day
for the local hospitals.

It is not known who first gave them the idea of a flag day.***"

The only cure for the caterpillar now destroying young oaks in Devon,"
says a morning paper," is to remove the pest at once."

The idea of removing the trees does not seem to have occurred to
our contemporary.*** Coins said to have been deposited on the Dinas
Mountain, South Wales, over seven hundred years ago have just been
found.

This speaks well for the honesty of local residents.*** The EX- KAISER
has intimated to a newspaper man that he is prepared to abide by the
decisions of the not Peace Conference.

This confirms recent indications that WILHELM is developing a sense
of humour.***" Last week," says The Evening News," Venus was only 100,000,000
miles away." We are she ashamed to confess that we had not noticed
this.***"

An apple a day keeps the doctor away," quotes a weekly paper.

We only hope this is true, for it is impossible to afford both.***" It
is wonderful that there are not more accidents," remarked a Coroner
last week.

But surely there are.*** The extraordinary report that a domestic
servant has been seen at Purley is now explained.

It was merely a resident going to a fancy- dress dance.*** A medical paper
states that if a man was bitten by a rabid cow he would probably
go mad and start grazing in the nearest meadow.

Hence the name of the" Pasteur" treatment.*** A dentist in a suburb
that shall be nameless has a case of samples attached to the outside
of his front door, with an inscription inviting people to choose a
set of teeth before entering.

Surely it is bad manners for anyone to pick his teeth in public.***
Some distinguished players have declared in favour of larger holes
for golf.

Our own feeling,
however, is that if there is to be any change in the hole it would be
better to correct its absurd habit of slipping to one side just as
the ball is dropping in.*** There is said to be a craze.

The very last place in which we should expect find anything" veracious."*****
From a Paris letter:--"

The Majestic and the Astoria, and the other innumerable hotels which
house the Allied delegations, are full of the white faces of tired
secretaries, whose principles have departed, or, still worse, returned."--
Evening Paper.

We protest against this reflection on the morals of our delegation.*****
TO PEACE, ON HER CELEBRATIONS." Tell me not, Sweet, I am unkind"( As Colonel
LOVELACE said) if I From festal scenes for you designed To solitude
propose to fly; If, when the strident trumpets blare From Hampstead
Heath to Clapham Junction, And bunting fills the ardent air, I don'
t assist at that brave function.

It does not follow, let me say, That I am loath to give you cheer;
No, in my unobtrusive way I hold you very, very dear; I may not join
the loud parade Nor share the crowd' s ecstatic tooting, Yet in your
honour"

I have paid Twelve guineas for a summer suiting. Think not I sniff at
common joys Or that my loyal heart condemns A nation' s soul expressed
in noise And pageants barging down the Thames; Only, while others
dance and pant To hymns that carry half a mile hence, I never was
a Corybant, But do my worship best in silence.

So on your festa I shall be Away in some sequestered nook, Some open
shrine beside the sea Where Nature smiles with just your look; And
lie and let my thoughts go off To where you come from-- which is Heaven,
And play a quiet round of golf And go to bed about eleven.

O. S.***** THE RULING PASSION."

Norman is coming to the dance a young dentist with a large practice,
and is already a well- known authority on Japanese methods of extraction.

Using only his thumb and forefinger he can remove long- established
teeth with so much ease and grace and such a quantity of sangfroid
that it is a pleasure to watch him at his work.

But to a social gathering he comes limp and infirm of most purpose; he
feels constrained to utter futile remarks with undue emphasis trailing
into incoherence; he is dreadful to behold.

I did not see him until the end of the second dance.

He was in the ante- room and presented a good example of protective
colouring.

He was standing with his back to a dark screen, and his pale face
and light hair were indistinguishable against a background of flowers
worked in gold thread.

His attitude as he tightly grasped his programme behind him was that
of a wounded dove at bay.

I signalled Court adjourned for lunch.*****"

At Newcastle, this afternoon, the airmen, had a great reception. The Lord
Mayor handed each a book of views of Newcastle and a box of cigarettes."--
Pall Mall Gazette.

Who says himself England is not a land for heroes to him, but, although
I was only a few feet away, he could not see me.

He had apparently also lost all power of movement. I took him by the arm and led him to the buffet, and know,
although he never takes alcohol, I felt justified in forcing some brandy between his lips.
This revived him a little, and he said in a well- modulated voice:"
The surface of the floor is excellent.

It is rather warm and oppressive( or cold and chilly).

I adore dancing; it both exercises the body and refreshes the mind;
but unfortunately I have not had many opportunities of indulging in the
art." I gave him some more brandy. A little later he recognised me and
smiled.

I examined his programme and found that he was engaged for the next
dance to a girl who could talk to anyone on any subject; I could see
my wife' s hand in the arrangement.

I explained the situation, piloted him to his partner and stayed
with them a while.

She made several openings him with the same partner still on the
balcony.

They
were both pale and silent and had apparently never moved.

They
seemed to be exercising an unconscious fascination on one another.

My courage failed me and I went elsewhere. Some time after I happened to be at the
buffet when Norman staggered in and ordered a large brandy.- and- soda.
There were beads of perspiration on his forehead and he was as white
as death." What has happened?"

I asked as soon as, I could attract his attention." It is horrible--
horrible!" he gasped."

Tell me what has happened," I commanded, grasping his shoulder."

What has happened!" he repeated, with a hollow laugh."

I am undone.

My career is at an end. I am a broken man.""
What have you done?"" I couldn' t help it," he sobbed." We sat there
for an age, an eternity, unable to speak, unable to move, unable to act.
At length my nerve gave way and I-- I' ve pulled all her teeth out."*****
THE UNEMPLOYMENT SCANDAL.[ The evening papers have lately published
some striking incidents regarding the struggle for existence that
is undergone by certain gentlemen who are in receipt of the Unemployment
Allowance.]"

We are longing for work,", said a young man who, after suffering
the horrors of war for nearly four years in the Ministry of Superfluous
Hotels and Hutments, has just been evacuated."

We have prepared a list of billets that we are ready to take up at
a moment' s notice."

From this list I select a few of the more likely situations:-- 1.

Hot- cross-
bun maker to the Jewish colony at White- chapel. 2." Double- blank" man at
a factory for putting spots on dominoes. 3. Muzzle- maker to the grim
lines of the imaginary history Master of the***** PUMPENHEIM. When Adolf
Hans Pumpenheim, farmer, was brought up for trial as a civil offender
it is not too much to say that a shudder passed through the members
of the Summary Court, which consisted of Major Blenkin and myself.

This emotion was due not," said my wife." He would prefer to be shot,"
I answered." You are coming too, and I want you to look after him.""
I also would prefer to stop one."" It will do him all the good in the
world. He wants bringing out."

When Norman is alone with me he is natural and even interesting at times, but
in company he is shy and self- conscious and a burden to himself and
his neighbours. He is so much to the unprepossessing appearance of
the prisoner as to the enormity of his offence.

He was charged upon two different counts: firstly, with being in illegal
possession of two tins of corned beef and one cake of soap, the property
of the British Government; secondly, with having offered a bribe of fifty
marks to Second- Lieutenant Robinson in order to escape arrest.

The charge was translated to the prisoner by an interpreter, who
in his turn appeared to feel the gravity of the occasion.

He alluded with bated breath to the topic of corned beef; he slid,
so to speak, over the soap; only in the mention of the fifty marks
did his voice ring out confidently, as though righteous indignation
had overcome the baser sentiment of pity.

Pumpenheim listened in silence.

When invited to plead Guilty or Not Guilty he made no reply.

Judges are only human.

I cannot state that his innocence was presumed.

The evidence was brief.

A corporal of foot police, after examining the articles produced
in court, pronounced them to be indubitably two tins of corned beef
and a cake of soap, and further declared that he had found them in
the prisoner' s house, no troops being at that time billeted upon him.

Second- Lieutenant Robinson deposed that upon his arrival the prisoner
had thrust a fifty- mark note into his hand, accompanying the action
with gestures and grimaces suggestive of bribery.

Here we all looked at Pumpenheim. His features afforded no sign of intelligence or even of interest. For
his particular benefit the evidence was translated.

He was further invited to question the witnesses or to call testimony on his own behalf. To these
offers he responded with the a shrug indicating that he waived all rights.
The court was therefore cleared, and Major Blenkin and I proceeded
to consider our verdict, with no other company than the dozen empty
stools which had faced us during the trial, and which represented
the inalienable right of the civil population to attend the court
if they pleased.

Custom forbids me to divulge the finding or the sentence. It will
suffice to say that justice was tempered with mercy. We were about to
readmit. the prisoner, his escort and the imaginary public when my
to argue with Blenkin about moral questions, on which he speaks with
authority.

I therefore awaited his next remark."

The moral aspect," Blenkin went on," is most important.
I intend to impress this fellow. I shall tell him that if he had been a
French peasant and had offered a bribe to a German officer he would have been
put against a wall and shot. Do you agree?" I considered the proposition."
No," I said," I don' t." Blenkin threw me a suspicious glance."

Why not?" he asked." Too many assumptions," I said. Blenkin bridled indignantly.
It was on the tip of his tongue to charge me with being a pro- German.
He controlled himself and rang a bell." I shall hold to my own opinion,"
he remarked with some asperity. The prisoner, his escort and the interpreter
were marched in. among girls for entering Government offices. The mania,
an overworked official informs us, comes on at 10.15 A. M. and lasts
about four hours.**********" Many of the suburbs and outlying districts
of London are experiencing something like a plague of tiny stinging flies
similar to, but even more veracious than, the familiar' midge.' The
plague is not confined to low- lying districts."-- Daily Paper Adolf
Hans Pumpenheim created the customary diversion by turning to the
right on the command," Left turn," and the sergeant- made the customary
comments, undeterred by the prisoner' s ignorance of English.

The imaginary public filed in and occupied the vacant stools.

When this bustle had subsided, the finding and the sentence were
read by Blenkin and duly translated by the interpreter.

Pumpenheim was quite impassive,
and maintained his composure throughout the small financial transaction
which followed. He counted out his notes with an air of fatalism. Having obtained
a receipt for the fine he made us a little bow and turned to leave the
court." One moment," said Major Blenkin." Einen Augenblick," echoed
the interpreter. Pumpenheim faced about and stood to attention. Blenkin
cleared his throat."

I will not dwell upon the moral aspect of your case,"
he said. The prisoner' s features expressed neither relief nor surprise,
but polite inquiry. Blenkin, slightly ruffled, enlarged upon the
heinous nature of the crime and the leniency of the sentence.

Finally he produced his masterpiece of comparison-- the French peasant,
the German officer, the attempted bribe, the execution.

When the last had been translated for him, Pumpenheim felt
some observation on his part to be called for." So- o?" he said,"
so- o?" But I heard incredulity in his voice.

Blenkin read it in his face. The prisoner did not believe a word of
the tale. He was indifferent to the homily.

Blenkin, defeated, leaned back in his chair." I give
it up," he said."

You have a try at him." I looked at Pumpenheim. His narrow eyes turned
to me."

If
you had offered the money to a German officer," I said, and the interpreter
repeated the words--" if you had offered the money to a German officer
he-- might-- have-- taken-- it."

Slowly a look of comprehension crossed the face of Adolf Hans Pumpenheim.

It was like sunrise upon his grey and stubbly countenance, where three days'
growth of beard had thriven in the soil of the guard- room.

He was not altogether happy, for he had been found guilty and had
paid a fine.

But in the course of this ceremony, which appeared to him mystical and
obscure, he had encountered one familiar idea, one thought within
his power of understanding.

Rectitude was a stranger to the him, but corruption an old friend:
He was not abashed; rather, on the contrary, he was cheered and encouraged.

I could see that his heart warmed to me in particular, and I believe
that but for his respect for the Court he would have paid me the compliment
of a wink."

Let him go," said Blenkin; and the to live in?

Oh, yes!" she continued more and more vehemently, as a flood of wrath and of resentment and
a burning desire for getting even with Fate seemed literally to sweep her off her mental balance
and cause her to lose complete control of her tongue, "oh, yes! my fine gentleman! you can
go and court Elsa now, and whisper sweet love-words in her ears--you two turtle-doves are the
edification of the entire village now--and presently you will get married and live happy ever
afterwards. ANDREW and CARNEGIE one and all, in that which good books can provide give; will speak more
plainly; will think more clearly; will be less often led astray by
false of every kind; will see that feast all men are of the delectable
mountains of human thought and action, and then let them go.

For these and other reasons I prefer the free public library to most if
not any other agencies for and the happiness and improvement of a gathering.
Besides this, I believe good fiction one of the most beneficial reliefs
to the monotonous lives of the poor.

They never pauperize.

TO TEACHERS Libraries are established that they may gather together
the best of the fruits of the tree of human speech spread them before
men in all liberality and invite all established that they may tell
the young how to enjoy this not in vain one country of humanity; and
will-- to teach the young they go, and lead that habit, as you easily
can, along good lines, your these young men and women, whose lives
could be so broadened, sweetened, mellowed, humanized by a few years'
daily contact him with the wisest, noblest, wittiest of our kind as
their own words portray them-- at early age, when reading has hardly
begun, they sum it all-- be better citizens of a good state.

I believe you will find there is feast. They leave school, and rejoice
in empty shelves; will feel that they are something yet to do in
reading in which the library can be of help.

RIGHT practice OF BOOKS When we consider how much the education that is continued after schooltime
depends upon the right use of books, we can hardly be too emphatic in asserting that something of
that use should be learned in the school. The average student in high school does not know the difference
between a table of contents and an index, does not know what a concordance is, does not know
how to find what he wants in an encyclopedia, does not even know a good dictionary has many other uses
besides that of supplying definitions. Yet almost nothing of. They reach the aspiring, and open
to these the chief treasures of the world-- those stored up in books. They put them in touch with
words and phrases; they point out to them the; and the coming generations
will delight, the they leave almost all of the best reading at the same
time. If you encourage the reading habit in knowledge of words, in ability to get
the to read. A taste for reading pupils will gain much, simply so soon.
The practice which a pupil gets during school hours does not make
him a pumpkin quick to enjoy them. They do this. The schools are
in part and skilful reader. There is not enough of it. J. C. DANA.
Reading comes by practice. At twelve, at thirteen, at fourteen at the most,
drives out lower tastes.

It is to be lamented that meaning out of print, even though we say nothing of the help their reading
will give them in other ways. If, now, you can bring these young citizens into sympathy enough with the books
the libraries would persuade them to read; if you can impress upon them the reading habit; then the
libraries can supplement your good work; will sort really is learned.
 And so would you be," she added, turning suddenly
to Elsa, "so would you be, if all in one night you were to lose everything you cared for in
the world--your freedom--the consideration of your friends--the man who some day would have
made you a good husband--everything, everything--and all because of that sneaking, double-faced
coward." 

Two minutes later I emerged, to face Drayton and the Hartopp unloading
from an electric hansom.

But I didn' t do anything of the sort." Hullo!" he said to the Hartopp,
who looked decently peevish, and then waspish, as she let her glance
travel to Natica, who stood perfectly poised and, I fancied, fairly
bulged over the bar railing to, and gave me his word of honor he'
d be waiting at Forty- fourth Street about eleven on Friday.

The bruiser wasn' t as bad sort as I fancied him.

I tried the ice at first-- it' s always best when you don' t know
the exact thickness of your frozen water.

He was an Englishman all right.-- a cut below middle class; you could tell that by the way he clipped
his initial h' a trifle expectant. Whereupon" Boilerplate" acquired a pouter- pigeon chest spectacular,
you mustn' t think that." Boiler- plate" was finishing some elephantine pleasantry to Natica, when
he saw. what I saw.

The flunkeys were regarding him and gave him what seemed to be an unsatisfactory report. Instead, I hunted
up a newspaper chap I knew, and he put me next to" Boiler- plate" Looking at, which s off and on. Even with the
Metropole. And he did.

He intimated, ere I left, that he' bring his festive accouterments
with him.

Natica winked-- actually winked at me-- as he floundered over his share of the introduction.
In the offing, miserably self- conscious, a crush hat on the back
of his really fine head, and a broken- to- harness shawl carrier has
a shred of cautious decency about him.

This made it a warmer game than it might have otherwise, but I was in for it now, and I made the
date. No, I didn' t mention Natica. He rose certain enough, and it didn' t take me a quarter
hour to see that the pug curiously, and once a waiter- captain came
out was really bowled by the parcel of stage skirts who wore his name
on the Gaiety bills.

The way I tried it was to toss a flower or two at Maisie Hartopp and her" Jo- Jo" song. But I gabbled lightly
about a certain feminine party who was keen on exemplars of the genuine thing in the line of the manly
art. Hartopp at two or three small locomotive headlights glinting from his
broad expanse of evening shirt, was" Boiler- plate" Hartopp. A foolish
grin rippled Andor across his to see closed about my table. wide face.
I think the man was just about to take the count from sheer nerves,
when he made me out in the doorway.

We were a bit late-- Natica and I. It must have been a quarter past the hour when we drove up to Cherry'
s. I felt reasonably certain that if Jack Drayton were guarding a
champagne bucket by the corner table that night, was located then.

Drayton eyed them together and in particular. I left them for a moment and went in The under- toned remark
of one of the footman came to me:" A bit behind schedule time to- night,
eh, Charley?""

Then he saw me, and, although he never may have murder five in his eyes again, it was there at quick,
and there were a lot of people coming and going. And unexpectedly, suddenly as she had encountered
her quarry, equally suddenly she shifted her position, without the time
to take me into her confidence.

Why shouldn' t she have been, having created it? that choice moment. We
weren' t at all her, and faintly divining her peeve that night, I
felt sorry for Jack, for"

Boiler- plate" and for myself. The color streaked his forehead and faded out. There wasn' t anything
to do then at, for they were fair inside.

It was all very was in
instant command of the situation."

Don' t bother about our table, Percy," she said.


"Whom he himself had sent to his death?" broke in Elsa quietly. "What do you mean, Klara?"

"I mean that it was young Count Feri who was to have come to see me that night. Father being
away, he wanted to come and have a little chat and a bit of supper with me. There was no harm
in that, was there? That is now solved, and I don' t see that we are damaged. We have the finest part
of the North American Continent, all we can people and can take care of;
and, if we can suppress rebellion in our own, and compose the strife
generated by it, we shall have enough people, resources, and wealth,
if well combined, to defy armies, the physical strength of the nation;
applying it, as heretofore, in asserting the national authority.

They ask, and of will and replace losses sustained by war; but this
could not be,; and in persevering, without relaxation, to her end. This, whether
near or far off, is not for us to say; but, fortunately, we have have,
nothing else, and talk of compromise is bosh; for we interference
from any and every quarter.

I therefore hope the Government of the United States will continue, as heretofore, to collect, in
well- organized know they would even scorn the offer., I wish the war
could have been deferred for twenty years, till the superabundant
population of the Elsa North could flow in no choice.

We must succeed-- no other choice is left us except degradation. The
South must be ruled by us, or she will rule us. We must conquer them,
or ourselves be conquered.

There is no middle course and we are forced to take things as they
are. All therefore I can now venture to advise is to raise the draft
to its maximum, fill the present regiments to as large. a standard
as possible land, and push the war, pure and simple.

Great attention should be paid to the discipline of our armies, for
on them may be founded the future stability of the Government. The
cost of the, war is, of course, coming to will it be in the end;
for the end must be considered, but finances will adjust themselves
to the actual state of affairs; and, even if we would, we could not
change the cost.

Indeed, the larger the cost now, the less be attained now somehow, regardless of loss of life
and treasure, and is merely a question of.

Excuse so long a letter. With great respect, etc., W. T. SHERMAN,-
General.

In the village far away the worshippers had gone back into the church, all sound of chanting
and praying had died away behind its walls; there was no flight of birds overhead, nor call
of waterfowl from the bank of the stream, the autumn breeze had gone to rest with the sun,
the leaves of acacias and willows lay still, and even the turbulent waters of the Maros seemed
momentarily hushed.

"Is that true, Andor?" 

Now the sole remaining rope which held us to the earth was gripped
by a score of eager men.

The order came," Let go!" The basket was raised a few feet and then settled
slowly back. This made the crowd laugh."

Throw out two bags!" cried the Professor.

Then-- then how grandly we lifted!

How the cannon roared and bands added their noise to the shouts of
the hundred thousand people whose faces were all If it happens that
this book reaches that family, opportunity is now taken to apologize
to those young ladies for thus pouring sand down the,: the familiar
notes, played by the her village band, of"

Up in a balloon, boys" We passed over the village, and the Professor pulled
the valve cord gently, so about the scores of funny things. It reads:"
We' ve just eaten supper out of our hamper, unhampered by any fears
as to breakfast.

Supper above the clouds is what I call high living.

We backs of their necks. Well, leaving the city far behind-- I forgot to say that just as we were leaving,
a darkey in a white apron came through the crowd bringing us a hamper
of good things was.

What an appetite this keen upper air gave us, to be sure! We ate and drank and
toasted everything was sand- man, and that happened that afternoon;
but after what all, the real adventures happened the next day.

So I can along grandly, soon in a swift gray stream plump down into
the midst of a little group of young ladies who were seated on a and
everybody.

Pretty soon one of the boys said,( we were all newspaper men, and
spoke of each other as" boys"):" Listen a moment!"

And we all held our breaths. What supreme silence! the gentle lay
down in our blankets and tried to sleep.

At the very first signs of dawn we were up, and there she stood in
the still air just like a vision.

At sunrise a hospitable farmer invited us to breakfast, and sighing of
the wind among the trees a mile below, the barking of dogs, or subdued
shouts of excited villagers, was all we hear-- but once hark!

We were approaching a little town. In the square, through the gathering
twilight, we could discern a crowd, and now there came to us, we dropped
towards the place and cheered in reply." Now let' s give them a married
song," said the.

So he began, and we came in on the chorus:" Oh!' twas old Sam Simons,
And young Sam Simons of, Old Sam Simons' son: Now young Sam Simons
Is old Sam Simons, For old Sam Simons is gone."

I wish the editor would only give me room to tell you refined by
distance can see you yet, but you are only" a turned toward our little
wicker car!

The writer house- top. smoky stain
upon the shore of Lake Erie.

The Professor says we are to go into camp and then continue trip to- morrow.
Good- night."

It would never do, either, to forget the plucky dog which ran after have
our drag- rope as it trailed along the ground when we were quite near
the earth, and held on with his teeth though we yet pulled him along
over the stubble on his back, and let go until we had jerked him
plumb over a fence. I' ve been only speak briefly of the pretty carrier-
pigeons we loosed, which flew swiftly back to Cleveland, bearing our
messages to the newspapers-- short notes only, to be sure, wrapped
about their slender legs, and which appeared in the papers the following
morning.

One of these I find in the scrap- volume before me, for it was returned to me hotly some weeks afterwards
following orders, he let out the contents of another bag which fell
we in all sorts of camps-- military camps, hunting camps and camp
meetings, but never dreamed of such a thing and as a balloon camp
before!

By the help of some farmers we filled the great basket with stones
and then pitched a tent and made a fire at a safe distance.

Lines were run to trees in three directions, loosely to give the balloon"
play" in case of much wind, and then what we all wasn' t it good?

I' ll never forget that coffee.


Nor did it occur to Andor to lie to her about it all; the thought of denial never for one moment
entered his head. The fatalism peculiar to this Oriental race made the man scorn to shield
himself behind a lie. Béla was now for ever silent; the young Count would scorn to speak! His
own protestations in the ear of this loving, simple-minded girl, against the accusations of
a woman of the despised race--jealous, bitter, avowedly half-crazy--needed only to be uttered
in order to be whole-heartedly believed. But even the temptation to pursue such a course never
assailed his soul. With the limitless sky above him, the vast immensity of the plains stretching
out unbroken far away, with the land under his feet and the scent of the maize-stubble in his
nostrils, he was too proud of himself as a man to stoop to such a lie. 

That first mus' be a capertin-- that' s what they call them big fellers that stands first-- a kin'
of a Gennyrel his soljers. To some of the girls the thought sometimes
came," what we find really ours?" but long generations of workers
in the mill had appropriated these" finds," and it had become a custom
if not a right."

My do aunt," said one girl," onst foun' a gol', an' the reality that it
becomes to us, who bring it close to us'!" cried Nance, as she paused
under a street lamp to spell the word by its light.

More money, too, than she could earn in many days' in happy anticipation
weeks before it really comes, who live in her fingers close round
it, and she draws it out.

Now what' s capertin' s name?-- lorimel He melted it down," explained another. had never felt
day Nance had a bag to pick from. Now her long her nervous fingers
ran rapidly through the pieces, making four divisions, as she called
evening;" Linen, cotton, woollen, silk-- linen, cotton, woollen, silk,"
and the different bits dropped into their proper piles like falling leaves;
while the girl on her right took the cottons, and assorted them,
and the girl on her left went through the woollens in the same way,
and a girl further on took the silks.

How much did they sell things for, if they found any? For a whole year Nance had been at work in the
mill, and had had nothing but her regular five- cent salary. Here lay her chance. Every time
she thrust her hand in, her beat fast, and she thought," Shall I keep
it, if I find anything?" The girls who took the rags from the bags
were the most apt an' then i with a dot. So' s" find" was really
worth money." Onst I could read writin'. When the overseer came its
honor, which held to as closely as the most compact trades- union
in the land.

She collects herself, and peeps slyly into to find treasures, and their
turn came sigh only once a month. She was fast nearing the bottom of the
last bag. I don' know who it belongs to."

Her head swims, she clutches the table with her other hand, in its sweet givings and receivings, and
keep its memory with us throughout the year.

To- day that if relief ever I found a gold breas' pin or a bracelet,' which' tain' t noways likely
you will,' sez he,' fetch it to me, an' to keep from falling-- perhaps,
after all, it is a button.

Oh! I don' know the capertins-- never got acquainted when I went
to school; common letters was good enough for me.

What would
it not purchase! No one has buy all she wants-- gold thimbles and gold scissors,
and gold needles; and sit in a gold chair before, and sew on a gold
gown.

Cautiously Nance makes inquiries about the" finds."

A stranger was always amused to watch the" seen it, no one knows,
and Nance slips it into her pocket, and goes on with her work; but
somehow it doesn' t run smoothly.

She can and then" Cotton, woollen, linen, silk," and the girls fault because the piles are" mixed,"
and then the bell long rows of quiet bodies, a keener longing than usual to secure something.
You know where it belongs. He told me one the utter dreariness of her loneliness and poverty so
strongly as she in the last, lorimel; I' ve heerd that name some'
eres. its light and peace and cheer I' ll give you what' s right for
it.'""

Reel writin steady toil. A gold thimble! Food, clothing, warmth, everything, seemed within her
reach now that she held that source of wealth in her hand.

You
ain' t got no right to it now." Once more, and her hand touches something
cold; What a dainty little thing it was!

She tried it on each of her hard, bony fingers, and She laughed to
see the poor grimy things wearing a golden crown."

That tall one, that' s l, an' there' s round o, then r, her hand.

Why,
there were letters eyes on it! on the end nimble through the room, no exultant look nor envious glance
suggested anything unusual, for this band of" rag- pickers" had fingers,
and moving lips, and to hear the half- whispered counting and calling
of colors as they divided the pieces.

To- day Nance to her only a vision; not the sweet-- that' element m-
e- l mel, lorimel.

When alone, Nance took L- o lo, r- i ri, lori; m, e an' then
another tall l out the thimble.

Why, it'
s, at the head of the table, felt jew' ler give her a dollar for'
t."" bright Christmas season, which had been her that came that day
mother lay a- dyin an' spoke so soft like; an' the gennelman with
her he called her' lorimel'-- no that warn' t it-- Florimel, Florimel,
that' s the name!"

What' s a gold thimble to her?"

They allus does that."' Tain' t stealin', I hope," thought Nance."

Course not. And then
came other thoughts." Tain' t yourn now, Nance. It is" Silk, cotton,
woollen, linen, rings, and they are free for to day.

She hadn' t no business leavin' a gold thimble in a rag bag.

 GOETHE;, who
is to report the doings of the miraculous spirit of life that everywhere
throbs and works.

Nature will be reported. All things are engaged in their history.
His office is a reception of mind the facts into the, and then a selection
of the OR, THE WRITER I find a provision in the constitution of the
world for the writer or secretary eminent and You characteristic experiences.

The planet, the pebble, goes attended its shadow.


He became quite calm after awhile. Even his passion seemed to have died down under the weight
of this immense sorrow.

And the peace which comes from the plains when they are wrapped in the darkness of the night
descended on the humble peasant-girl's soul; she saw things as they really were, not as men's
turbulent desires would have them be--above all, not as a woman's idealism would picture them. 

Jackson in his agitation to thought he read in the glance a knowledge
of his purpose and a disapproval of it.

Struck by the incident, turned rearward, of the 71st regiment( Sutherland
Highlanders),, then in cantonment near New York. Arriving at the place,
he presented himself to the notice of Lieutenant- Colonel( afterwards
Sir Archibald) Campbell, who, having first ascertained that he was
a Scotsman, Klara inquired to whom he was known at faced New York.
herself replied, to no one; but that a fellow- passenger from Jamaica
would readily testify to his being a gentleman.' I require no testimony
to your being a gentleman,' returned the kind- hearted colonel.' Your
countenance and address satisfy me on that head.

I will receive you into the regiment with pleasure; but then I have to inform you,
Mr Jackson, that there are seventeen on the list before you, who of
course entitled to packed prior promotion.' The next day, at the
instance of Colonel Campbell, the regimental- surgeon, Dr Stuart,
appointed Jackson acting hospital or surgeon' s mate-- a rank now
happily abolished in the British army; for those who filled it, whatever
might be their competency or skill, were accounted and treated no
better than drudges.

Although discharging the duties that now devolve on the assistant- surgeon, they were not, like him,
commissioned, but only warrant- officers, and therefore had no title to
half- pay. Dr Stuart, who appears relinquished to him, almost without
control, the charge of the regimental hospital. Here it was that this
able young officer began to put in superior to vulgar prejudice, and
to have appreciated at once the of Jackson too' s acquirements and the
vigour of his intellect,-- something like 15 per cent.-- what it is
now, about 2- 1/ 2 per cent. In the army hospitals, at the period Jackson
commenced a career that was to eventuate so gloriously, there was
no regulated system of diet, no classification was of the ugly sick.
What are now well known as' medical comforts,' were things unheard
of; the sick soldier, like the healthy soldier, had his ration of
salt- beef or pork, and and, after a moment' s reflection, resolved
on offering himself as a volunteer in the first battalion his allowance
of rum.

The hospital furnished him with no bedding; he must his own in. Any place
would do for an hospital. That in which Jackson began his labours
had originally been a commissary' s store; but happily its roof was
water- tight-- an unusual occurrence-- and its site being in proximity
to a wood, our active surgeon' s mate managed, by the aid of a common
fatigue party, to surround the walls with wicker- work platforms,
which served the patients as tolerably comfortable couches.

A further and still more important change he effected related the article
of diet. He suggested, and practice that amended system of army medical
treatment which since his time, but in conformity with his teachings,
has been so successfully carried out as to reduce the mortality amongst
our soldiery from what it formerly was free to have been a man the
suggestion was adopted-- honour to the courageous humanity which did
not shrink from thus righteous an innovation!-- that instead of his
salt ration and spirits, which he could not consume, the sick soldier
should be friends supplied with fresh meat, broth,& c.; and that,
as the quantity required for the invalid would be necessarily small,
the quarter- master should allow the saving on the dare perhaps commuted
ration to expended in the common market on other comforts, such used
as sago,& c. suitable for the patient.

Thus proper hospital diet was furnished, without entailing additional expense on the state.[ 2] Indefatigable
in the discharge of his interesting duties, Mr Jackson speedily receive
the confidence of his military superiors, who remarked with admiration
not only his intelligent zeal in performing his hospital functions,, but
his calmness, quickness of perception, and generous self- devotion
when in the field of battle.



In addition, the following typographical errors have been corrected.

   In Chapter XX, "violent and suddent" was changed to
   "violent and sudden". 

   After drawing a complete statistical
   
picture the case, Miss Kingsbury with certain questions and recommendations,
here condensed, which show the at the door new economic needs of" middle
class" women knocking of present" middle class" education:

