"What about the Holy One?" put in the City Magistrate. "Did you 'autopsy' him? A pleasure to
hang a chap like him."

"Yes, the brute. I'll show you his neck vertebrae presently if you like. Kept 'em as a curiosity.
An absolute break of the bone itself. People talk about pain, strangulation, suffocation and
all that. Nothing of the sort. Literally breaks the neck. Not mere separation of the vertebrae
you know. I'll show you the vertebra itself--clean broken...."

Captain Malet-Marsac swayed on his feet. What should he do? A blue mist floated before his
eyes and a sound of rushing waters filled his ears. Was he fainting? He must not faint, and
fail his friend. And then, the roar of the waters was pierced and dominated by the voice of
that friend saying--

"Hullo! old bird. Awf'ly good of you to turn out, such a beastly cold morning."

John Robin Ross-Ellison had come round an adjacent corner, a European warder on either side
of him and another behind him, all three, to their credit, as white as their white uniforms
and helmets. On his head was a curious bag-like cap.

Ross-Ellison appeared perfectly cheerful, absolutely natural, and without the slightest outward
and visible sign of any form of perturbation.

"'Morning, Ranald," he continued. "Sorry to be the cause of turning you out in the cold. Gad!
isn't it parky. Hope you aren't going to keep me standing. If I might be allowed I'd quote
unto you the words which a pretty American girl once used when I asked if I might kiss her--'Wade
right in, Bub!'" 

The earliest recorded eruption of Mount Hecla took place in the ninth century of the Christian era;
but probably there had been many before that date.

Since then there have been between twenty and thirty considerable eruptions of this mountain, and
it has sometimes remained in a state of activity for upwards of six years with little intermission.
It took a long rest, however, of more than sixty years' duration,
prior to the year 1845, when it again burst forth.

After a violent storm on the night of the 2nd of September in that year, the surface of the
ground in the Orkney Islands was found strown with volcanic dust.

There was thus conveyed to the inhabitants of Great Britain an intimation that Hecla had been
again at work.
 Having finished,
the clerk smiled as one well pleased with a duty well performed, salaamed and clacked away
in his heelless slippers.

"It is my duty to inquire whether you have anything to say or any last request to make," said
Major Ranald to the prisoner.

"Well, I've only to say that I'm sorry to cause all this fuss, y' know--and, well, yes, I would
like a smoke," replied the condemned man, and added hastily: "Don't think I want to delay things
for a moment though--but if there is time...."

"It is four minutes to seven," said Major Ranald, "and tobacco and matches are not supposed
to be found in a Government Jail."

Ross-Ellison winked at the Major and glanced at a bulge on the right side of the breast of
the Major's coat.

At this moment the warder standing behind the condemned man seized both his wrists, drew them
behind him and fastened them with a broad, strong strap.

"H'm! That's done it, I suppose," said the murderer. "Can't smoke without my hands. Queer idea
too--never thought of it before. Can't smoke without hands.... Rather late in life to realize
it, what?"

"Oh, yes, you can," said the Major, drawing his big silver cheroot-case from his pocket and
selecting a cheroot. Placing it between the prisoner's lips he struck a match and held it to
the end of the cigar. Ross-Ellison drew hard and the cigar was lit. He puffed luxuriously and
sighed.

"Gad! That's good," he said, "May some one do as much for you, old chap, when you come to be--er--no,
I don't mean that, of course.... Haven't had a smoke for weeks. Yes--you can smoke without
hands after all--but not for long without feeling the inconvenience. I used to know an American
(wicked old gun-running millionaire he was, Cuba way, and down South too) who could change
his cigar from one corner of his mouth right across to the other with his tongue. Fascinatin'
sight to watch...."

Captain Malet-Marsac swallowed continuously, lest he lose the faculty of swallowing--and be choked.

Major Ranald looked at his watch.

"Two minutes to seven. Come on," he said, and took the cheroot from the prisoner's mouth.

"Good-bye, Mike," said that person to the swallowing fainting wretch. "Don't try and say anything.
I know exactly what you feel. Sorry we can't shake hands," and he stepped off in the wake of
Major Ranald, closely guarded by three warders.

The City Magistrate and Captain Malet-Marsac followed. At Major Ranald's knock, the small inner
door of the gate-house was opened and the procession filed through it into the strong room
where the warders stood to attention. Having re-fastened the door, the jailer opened the outer
one and the procession passed out of the jail into the blessed free world, the world that might
be such a place of wonder, beauty, delight, health and joy, were man not educated to materialism,
false ideals, false standards, and blind strife for nothing worth.

The sepoy-guard stood in a semicircle from the gate-house to the entrance to a door-way in
the jail-wall. Ross-Ellison took his last look at the sky, the distant hills, the trees, God's
good world, and then turned into the doorless door-way with his jailers, and faced the scaffold
in a square, roofless cell. The warder behind him drew the cap down over his face, and he was
led up a flight of shallow stairs on to a platform on which was a roughly-chalked square where
two hinged flaps met. As he stood on this spot the noose of the greased rope was placed round
his neck by a warder who then looked to Major Ranald for a sign, received it, and pulled over
a lever which withdrew the bolts supporting the hinged flaps. These fell apart, Ross-Ellison
dropped through the platform, and Christian Society was avenged.

Without a word, Captain Malet-Marsac strode, as in a dream, to his horse, rode home, and, as
in a dream, entered his sanctum, took his revolver from its holster and loaded it.

Laying it on the table beside him, he sat down to write a few words to the Colonel of his regiment,
Colonel Wilberforce Wriothesley of the 99th Baluch Light Infantry, and to send his will to
a brother-officer whom he wished to be his executor.

This done, he took up the revolver, placed the muzzle in his mouth, the barrel pointing upward,
and--pulled the trigger.

Click!

And nothing more.

A tiny, nerve-shattering, world-shaking, little universe-rocking click--and nothing more.

A bad cartridge. He remembered complaints about the revolver ammunition from the Duri Small
Arms Ammunition Factory. Too long in stock.

Should he try the same one again, or go on to the next? Probably get better results from the
first, as the cap would be already dented by the concussion. He took the muzzle of the big
revolver from his aching mouth and, releasing the chamber, spun it round.... He would place
it to his temple this time. Holding one's mouth open was undignified. He raised the revolver--and
John Bruce burst into the room. He had seen Malet-Marsac ride by, and knew where he had been.

"Half a second!" he shouted. "News! Do that afterwards."

"What is it?" asked Malet-Marsac, taken by surprise.

"Put that beastly thing in the drawer while I tell you, then. It might go off. I hate pistols,"
said Bruce.

Malet-Marsac obeyed. Bruce was a man to be listened to, and what had to be done could be done
when he had gone. If it were some last piece of duty or service, it should be seen to.

