"Why, there's the vicar!" said Janet Leighton, perceiving the tall and willowy figure of Mr.
Shenstone, as its owner stopped to speak to one of the boys with the guns who were watching
the game.

Rachel looked round with a look of annoyance.

"Oh, dear, what a bore," she said wearily. "I suppose I must go and tidy up. Nobody ought to
be allowed to pay visits after five o'clock."

"You asked him something about a village woman to help, didn't you?"

"I did, worse luck!" sighed Rachel, gathering up her sunbonnet and disappearing from the window.
Janet heard her go upstairs, and a hasty opening of cupboards overhead. She herself had come
back an hour earlier from the fields than Rachel in order to get supper ready, and had slipped
a skirt over the khaki tunic and knickerbockers which were her dress--and her partner's--when
at work on the farm. She wondered mischievously what Rachel would put on. That her character
included an average dose of vanity, the natural vanity of a handsome woman, Rachel's new friend
was well aware. But Janet, Rachel's elder by five years, was only tenderly amused by it. All
Rachel's foibles, as far as she knew them, were pleasant to her. They were in that early stage
of a new friendship when all is glamour.

Yet Janet did sometimes reflect, "How little I really know about her. She is a darling--but
a mystery!"

They had met at college, taken their farm training together, and fallen in love with each other.
Janet had scarcely a relation in the world. Rachel possessed, it seemed, a brother in Canada,
another in South Africa, and some cousins whom she scarcely knew, children of the uncle who
had left her three thousand pounds. Each had been attracted by the loneliness of the other,
and on leaving college nothing was more natural than they should agree to set up together.
Rachel, as the capitalist, was to choose the farm and take command. Janet went to a Cheshire
dairy farm for a time to get some further training in practical work; and she was now responsible
for the dairy at Great End, with the housekeeping and the poultry thrown in. She was a thin,
tall woman with spectacles, and had just seen her thirty-second birthday. Her eyes were honest
and clear, her mouth humorous. She never grudged other women their beauty or their success.
It always seemed to her she had what she deserved.

Meanwhile the vicar approached, and Miss Leighton descended the steps and went to meet him
at the gate. His aspect showed him apologetic.

"I have come at an unearthly hour, Miss Leighton. But I thought I should have no chance of
finding Miss Henderson free till the evening, and I came to tell you that I think I have found
a woman to do your work."

Janet bade him come in, and assured him that Rachel would soon be visible. She ushered him
into the sitting-room, which he entered on a note of wonderment.

"How nice you have made it all," he said, looking round him. "When I think what a deserted
hole this has been for years. You know, the village people firmly believe it is haunted? Old
Wellin never could get anybody to sleep here. But tramps often used it, I'm certain. They got
in through the windows. Hastings told me he had several times found a smouldering fire in the
kitchen."

"What sort is the ghost?" Janet inquired, as she pointed him to a chair, devoutly hoping that
Rachel would hurry herself.

"Well, there's a story--but I wonder whether I ought to tell you--"

"I assure you as to ghosts--I have no nerves!" said Janet with a confident laugh, "and I don't
think Rachel has either. We are more frightened of rats. This farm-yard contains the biggest
I've ever seen. I dream of them at night."

"It's not exactly the ghost--" said the vicar, hesitating.

"But the story that produced the ghost? What--a murder?"

"Half a century ago," said the vicar reassuringly; "you won't mind that?"

"Not the least. A century ago would be romantic. If it was just the other day, we should feel
we ought to have got the farm cheaper. But half a century doesn't matter. It's a mid-Victorian,
just a plain, old-fashioned murder. Who did it?"

The vicar opened his eyes a little. Miss Leighton was, he saw, a lady, and perhaps clever.
Her spectacles looked like it. No doubt she had been at Oxford or Cambridge before going to
Swanley? These educated women in new professions were becoming a very pressing and common fact!
As to the murder, he explained that it had been just an ordinary poaching affair. An old gamekeeper
on the Shepherd estate had been attacked by a gang of poachers in the winter of 1866. He had
been shot in one of the woods, and though mortally wounded had been able to drag himself to
the outskirts of the farm where his strength had failed him. He was found dead under the cart-shed
which backed on the stables, and the traces of blood on the hill marked the stages of his struggle
for life. Two men were suspected, one of them a labourer on the Great End Farm; but there was
no evidence. The suspected labourer had gone to Canada the year after the murder, and no one
knew what had happened to him.

But having told the tale the vicar was again seized with compunction.

"I oughtn't to have told you--I really oughtn't; just on your settling in--I hope you won't
tell Miss Henderson?"

Janet's amused reply was interrupted by Rachel's entrance. The vicar arose with eagerness to
receive her. He was evidently attracted by his new parishioners and anxious to make a good
impression on them. Miss Henderson's reception of the vicar, however, was far more guarded.
The easy friendliness of manner which had attracted the bailiff Hastings was, at first at any
rate, entirely absent. Her attitude was almost that of a woman defending herself against possible
intrusion, and Janet Leighton, looking on, and occasionally sharing in the conversation, was
surprised by it, as indeed she was by so many things concerning Rachel now that their acquaintance
was deepening; surprised also, as though it were a new thing, by her friend's good looks as
she sat languidly chatting with the vicar. Rachel had merely put on a blue overall above her
land-worker's dress. But her beautiful head, with its wealth of brown hair, and her face, with
its sensuous fulness of cheek and lip, its rounded lines, and lovely colour--like a slightly
overblown rose--were greatly set off by the simple folds of blue linen; and her feet and legs,
shapely but not small, in their khaki stockings and shoes, completed the general effect of
lissom youth. The flush and heat of hard bodily work had passed away. She had had time to plunge
her face into cold water and smooth her hair. But the atmosphere of the harvest field, its
ripeness and glow, seemed to be still about her. A classically minded man might have thought
of some nymph in the train of Demeter, might have fancied a horn of plenty, or a bow, slung
from the sunburnt neck.

But the vicar had forgotten his classics. En revanche, however, he was doing his best to show
himself sympathetic and up-to-date with regard to women and their new spheres of work--especially
on the land. He had noticed three girls, he said, working in the harvest field. Two of them
he recognized as from the village; the third he supposed was a stranger?

"She comes from Ralstone," said Rachel.

"Ah, that's the village where the new timber camp is. You really must see that camp, Miss Henderson."

"I hate to think of the woods coming down," she said, frowning a little.

"We all do. But that's the war. It can't be helped, alack! But it's wonderful to see the women
at work, measuring and checking, doing the brain work, in fact, while the men do the felling
and loading. It makes one envious."

The vicar sighed. A flush appeared on his young but slightly cadaverous face.

"Of the men--or the women?"

"Oh, their work, I mean. They're doing something for the war. I've done my best. But the Bishop
won't hear of it."

And he rather emphatically explained how he had applied in vain for an army chaplaincy. Health
and the shortage of clergy had been against him. "I suppose there must be some left at home,"
he said with a shrug, "and the doctors seem to have a down on me."

Janet was quite sorry for the young man--he was so eagerly apologetic, so anxious to propitiate
what he imagined ought to be their feelings about him. And Rachel all the time sat so silent
and unresponsive.

Miss Leighton drew the conversation back to the timber camp; she would like to go and see it,
she said. Every one knew the Canadians were wonderful lumbermen.

The Vicar's eyes had travelled back to Rachel.

"Were you ever in Canada, Miss Henderson?" The question was evidently thrown out nervously
at a venture, just to evoke a word or a smile from the new mistress of the farm.

Rachel Henderson frowned slightly before replying.

"Yes, I have been in Canada."

"You have? Oh, then, you know all about it."

"I know nothing about Canadian lumbering."

"You were on the prairies?"

"I lived some time on a prairie farm."

"Everything here must seem very small to you," said the vicar sympathetically. But this amiable
tone fell flat. Miss Henderson still sat silent. The vicar began to feel matters awkward and
took his hat from the floor.

"I trust you will call upon me for any help I can possibly be to you," he said, turning to
Janet Leighton. "I should be delighted to help in the harvest if you want it. I have a pair
of hands anyway, as you see!" He held them out.

He expatiated a little more on his disappointment as to the front. Janet threw in a few civil
words. Rachel Henderson had moved to the window, and was apparently looking at the farm-girls
carrying straw across the yard.

"Good-night, Miss Henderson," said the young man at last, conscious of rebuff, but irrepressibly
effusive and friendly all the time. "I hope you will let your Ralstone girl come sometimes
to the clubroom my sister and I have in the village? We feel young people ought to be amused,
especially when they work hard."

"Thank you, but it's so far away. We don't like them to be out late."

"Certainly not. But in the long evenings--don't you know?" The vicar smiled persuasively. "However,
there it is--whenever she comes she will be welcome. And then, as to your seat in church. There
is a pew that has always belonged to the farm. It is about half-way up."

"We don't go to church," said Rachel, facing him. "At least, I don't." She looked at her companion.

"And I can't be counted on," said Janet, smiling.

The vicar flushed a little.

"Then you're not Church of England?"

"I am," said Rachel indifferently; "at least I'm not anything else. Miss Leighton is a Unitarian."
Then her eyes lit up with a touch of fun, and for the first time she smiled. "I'm afraid you'll
think us dreadful heathens, Mr. Shenstone!"

What the vicar did think was that he had never seen a smile transform a face so agreeably.
And having begun to smile, Rachel perversely continued it. She walked to the gate with her
visitor, talking with irrelevant animation, inviting him to come the following day to help
in the "carrying," asking questions about the village and its people, and graciously consenting
to fix a day when she and her friend would go to tea with Miss Shenstone at the vicarage. The
young man fairly beamed under the unexpected change, and lingered at the gate as though unable
to tear himself away; till with a little peremptory nod, though still smiling, Rachel dismissed
him.

