At the time when he was leaving his last place of employment he wrote her on a postcard that
he was changing his residence again. But he did not tell her that he was going to Nuremberg.
So spring passed and summer. Then her soul, which was wavering between fear and hope, was rudely
jolted out of its dim state by a letter from Jason Philip.

He wrote that Daniel was loafing about in Nuremberg. Quite by accident he had met him a few
days before near the fair booths on Schütt Island. His appearance was indescribable. He had
tried to question him, but Daniel had disappeared. What had brought him to the city he, Jason
Philip, could not see. But he was willing to wager that at the bottom of it was some shady
trick, for the fellow had not looked like one who earns an honest living. So he proposed to
Marian that she should come to Nuremberg and help in a raid on the vagabond, in order to prevent
the unblemished name he bore from being permanently disgraced before it was too late. As a
contribution to her travelling expenses he enclosed five marks in stamps.

Marian had received the letter at noon. She had at once locked up her house and shop. At two
o’clock she had reached the station at Ansbach; at four she arrived in Nuremberg. Carrying
her hand-bag, she asked her way to Plobenhof Street at every corner.

Theresa sat at the cashier’s desk. Her brown hair on her square peasant’s skull was smoothly
combed. Zwanziger, the freckled shop-assistant, was busy unpacking books. Theresa greeted her
sister with apparent friendliness, but she did not leave her place. She stretched out her hand
across the ink-stand, and observed Marian’s shabby appearance—the worn shawl, the old-fashioned
little cloth bonnet with its black velvet ribbands meeting in a bow under the chin.

“Go upstairs for a bit,” she said, “and let the children entertain you. Rieke will bring up
your bag.”

“Where is your husband?” asked Marian.

“At an electors’ meeting,” Theresa answered morosely. “They couldn’t meet properly, according
to him, if he isn’t there.”

At that moment a man in a workingman’s blouse entered the shop and began to talk to Theresa
urgently in a soft but excited voice. “I bought the set of books and they’re my property,”
said the man. “Suppose I did skip a payment. That’s no reason to lose my property. I call that
sharp practice, Frau Schimmelweis, that’s what I call it.”

“What did Herr Wachsmuth buy of us?” Theresa turned to the shop-assistant.

“Schlosser’s ‘History of the World,’” was the prompt answer.

“Then you’d better read your contract,” Theresa said to the workingman. “The terms are all
fixed there.”

“That’s sharp practice, Frau Schimmelweis, sharp practice,” the man repeated, as though this
phrase summed up all he could express in the way of withering condemnation. “A fellow like
me wants to get on and wants to learn something. All right. So I think I’ll buy me a book and
get a step ahead in knowledge. So where do I go? To a party member, to Comrade Schimmelweis,
thinking natural-like I’m safe in his hands. I pay sixty marks—hard earned money—for a history
of the world, and manage to squeeze the payments out o’ my wages, and then, all of a sudden,
when half the price is paid, I’m to have my property taken from me without so much as a by
your leave just because I’m two payments in arrears.”

“Read your contract,” said Theresa. “Every point is stipulated.”

“No wonder people get rich,” the man went on. His voice grew louder and louder, and he glanced
angrily at Jason Philip, who at that moment rushed into the shop with his hat crushed and his
trousers sprinkled with mud. “No wonder that people can buy houses and speculate in real estate.
Yes, Schimmelweis, I call such things sharp practice, and I don’t give a damn for your contract.
Everybody knows by this time what kind of business is done here—more like a man-trap—and that
these here instalments are just a scheme to squeeze the workingman dry. First you talk to him
about education, and then you suck his blood. It’s hell!”

“Pull yourself together, Wachsmuth!” Jason Philip cried sternly.

Wachsmuth picked up his cap, and slammed the shopdoor behind him.

Marian Nothafft’s eyes passed mechanically over the titles of a row of fiercely red pamphlets
spread out on a table. She read: “The Battle that Decides,” “Modern Slaveholders,” “The Rights
of the Poor,” “Christianity and Capitalism,” “The Crimes of the Bourgeoisie.” Although these
catch-words meant nothing to her, she felt in her heart once more her old, long forgotten hatred
against machines.

                                  XII

“Fetch me a sandwich, Theresa,” Jason Philip commanded, “I’m hungry as a wolf.”

“Didn’t you eat anything at the inn?” Theresa asked suspiciously.

“I was at no such place.” Jason Philip’s eyes gleamed, and he shook his head like a lion.

So Theresa went to fetch his sandwich. It was queer to observe how much distrust and contradiction
she was able to express through the sloth of her movements. But her daughter Philippina was
already hurrying down the stairs with the sandwich.

At this moment Jason Philip became aware of his sister-in-law. “Ah, there you are, you shrinking
flower,” he said lightly, and held out his pudgy hand. “Theresa will put you up in the little
room under the store-room. You have a pleasant view of the river there.”

Theresa handed him the bread. He sniffed at it, and frowned because it wasn’t thickly enough
buttered. But he had not the courage to complain. He bit into it, and, with full cheeks, turned
once more to Marian.

“Well, that son of yours has disappeared again. A nice situation. Shouldn’t wonder if he ended
in the penitentiary. The best thing would be to ship him off to America; but it isn’t clear
to me how we’re to get hold of him at all. It was really premature to ask you to come.”

“If only I knew what he’s living on,” Marian whispered, with repressed anguish.

Jason Philip indulged with broad psychical comfort in an anecdote: “I was reading the other
day how a giraffe escaped from the Zoo. You’ve heard of giraffes. They are long-necked quadrupeds,
very stupid and stubborn. The silly beast had run off into the woods, and the people didn’t
know how to capture it. Then the keeper hung the stable-lantern over his chest and a bundle
of hay on his back, and at nightfall went into the woods. Scarcely had the giraffe noticed
the gleam of the lantern when it came up in its curiosity. At once the man swung around. It
smelled the hay, nibbled, and began to feed. Slowly the man went on, and the beast went on
nibbling and feeding. First thing you know it was back in its cage. Then she turned to her father
with that strange bright smile, and again to Roger, uttering faintly,--

"Stand away, Roger; Sunny wants the light."

They drew all the curtain opposite her bed away, and, as she stretched
her hands eagerly toward the window, the last rays of sunshine glowed
on her pale illuminated face, till it was even as an angel's, and
Roger caught a sudden gleam of wings across the air; but a cold pain
struck him as he gazed, for Sunny fell backward on her pillow.

 It was growing dark, and he
had peered carefully about before entering. He hurried up to Jason Philip, and said in a cracked
falsetto: “How about the new publications? Anything very fine?” He rubbed his hands, and stared
stupidly from under his thin, reddish lids. It was Count Schlemm-Nottheim, a cousin of the
Baron von Auffenberg, the leader of the liberal party.

“I’m entirely at your service, sir,” said Jason Philip, holding himself as rigidly as a sergeant
who is being addressed by a captain.

He led the count to a corner of the shop, and opened a heavy oaken chest. This chest contained
the pornographic publications forbidden by the state. They were sold quite secretly and only
to very reliable persons.

Jason Philip whispered, and the old count turned over the heap of books with avid fingers.

                                 XIII

Marian climbed up the steep, dark stairs, and rang the upstairs bell. She had to tell the maid
who she was and even mention her name to the children. The latter laughed at her stiff, rural
courtesy. Philippina, who was twelve, acted arrogantly and swung her hips when she walked.
All three had their mother’s square head and a cheesy complexion.

The maid brought up the bag. Then Theresa came too and helped her sister unpack. With her acrid,
unfeeling voice she asked many questions, but without waiting for an answer told the tale of
marriage and births and deaths that had taken place in the city. She avoided Marian’s eyes,
because she was silently considering how long her sister’s visit would last and to what expense
it would put her.

She did not mention Daniel, and her silence condemned him more completely than her husband’s
acrimonious speeches. She held firmly an almost religious doctrine of the complete obedience
which children owe their parents, and doubted Marian’s power to punish properly a breach of
this sacred law.

When Marian was left alone, she sat down by the window of the little room, and gazed sadly
down at the river. Without any curl of waves the yellow water glided by and washed the walls
of the houses on the other bank. She had a view of the Museum Bridge and another bridge, and
the crowding of people on the bridges disquieted her.

She walked through the streets, and stopped at the head of the Museum Bridge. She thought that
every human being who lived in the town must pass by here sooner or later. Her attentive glance
searched all faces, and where one escaped, she followed the figure as it melted into the dark.
But as it grew later the people were fewer and fewer.

At night she would lie awake, and listen to the dull echo of the feet of the last passerby.
Next day from morning to twilight she would wander up and down the streets. What she saw weighed
on her heart. The city people seemed to her like dumb animals, tormented and angry. The narrow
streets stopped her breath; the hubbub deadened her senses.

But she was never tired of seeking.

On the fifth day she did not come home until ten o’clock. Theresa, who had gone to bed, sent
her a plate of lentil soup. While she was avidly eating the soup she heard steps in the hall
and a knock at the door. Jason Philip entered. “Come along at once,” was all he said. But she
understood. With trembling fingers she threw a shawl across her shoulders, since the October
nights were growing cool, and followed him in silence.

They went up hill to Adler Street, turned into it and then into a narrow, dark little alley
at the right. A lantern hung above a door and on a green glass pane were inscribed the words:
“The Vale of Tears.” A greenish light suffused the stone stairs that led to the cellar, the
kegs and the desolate room filled with chairs and benches. A sourish smell of wine arose from
the place.

Beside the entrance there was a barred window. Beside it Jason Philip stopped, and beckoned
Marian to join him.

At the long tables below them sat a queer crowd. They were young men, but such as one never
finds in ordinary houses and only very rarely in the streets. Want seemed to have driven them
to huddle here, and the night to have lured them from their hiding places—shipwrecked creatures
they seemed who had fled to a cavern on some deserted shore. They had absurdly gay cravats
and sad, pallid faces, and the greenish light made them look altogether like corpses. It was
long since a barber had touched their hair or a tailor their garb.

A little aside from these sat two old fellows, habitual topers, not in the best circumstances
themselves, yet rather astonished at this dreary Stygian crew. For they themselves at least
received their weekly wage of a Saturday night, while those others had obviously for years
not worked at all.

But in a dusky corner sat one at a piano and struck the keys with a strange might. He had no
score before him, but played from memory. The instrument moaned; the strings hummed pitifully;
the pedals creaked; but the man who played was so bewitched by his music that he cared little
for the inadequacy of its communication. Wild as the tumult of the playing sounded, the shrill
and raging chords, the wild clamour of the treble, the driven triplets and seething tremolos
of the bass, yet the deep emotion of the player, the ecstasy and world-estranged madness in
which he was, lent the scene a melancholy and a solemnity which would have had its effect even
without the greenish cellar and the cavernous pallor of the listeners.

Marian had at once recognised the pianist as Daniel. She had to hold fast to the bars of the
window and lean her knees against the wainscoting. It was not for nothing that Jason Philip
was known as a thorough wag. The comparison to Daniel in the lion’s den was too much for him.
He whispered the words to Marian. But since the window was open and the music had first risen
and then, at this moment, paused, his words penetrated to the people below, and several heads
turned toward him. Marian was thoughtless. She believed that the piece had ended. Faintly and
fearfully she cried: “Daniel!”

Daniel leaped up, stared at her, saw Jason Philip’s mocking face, hastened to the door, the
steps, and was beside them.

He stood in the doorway, and his lips began to form words. The unhappy boy, she thought, and
it seemed to her as though power would be given her to press back to his heart the words she
trembled to hear.

It was in vain. The words were uttered. He did not wish to see his mother any more; he was
content to live alone and for himself and to be free. He needed no one. He needed only to be free.

Jason Philip hurled a glance of contempt at the blasphemous wretch, and drew Marian away with
him. Her lisping voice chattered brook-like to birds and bees; her lip curled grievously over the
broken wing of a painted moth, or the struggles of a drowning fly;
in Nature's company she played as with an infant ever divine; and
no darkness assailed the never-weary child.



                  FOES, BROTHERS, A FRIEND AND A MASK

                                   I

Daniel had rented a room of the brush-maker Hadebusch and his wife, who lived on Jacob’s Square
behind the church.

It was March, and a sudden cold had set in; and Frau Hadebusch had a superstitious fear of
coal, which she characterised as Devil’s dung. At the back of the yard was the wood pile, and
logs were brought in with which to feed the oven fires. But wood was dear, and had Daniel fed
his little iron stove in the garret with such costly food, his monthly bill would have reached
a fabulous height. He paid seven marks a month for his room and counted every penny so as not
to shorten the period of his liberty by any needless expenditure.

So he sat freezing over his books and scores until the first warmth of spring stole in through
the windows. The books he borrowed from the library at the King’s Gate, and paid six pfennigs
a volume. Achim von Arnim and Jean Paul were his guides in those days: the one adorned the
world of the senses for him, the other that of the soul.

On the police department’s identification blank Daniel had called himself a musician. Frau
Hadebusch brought the paper into her living room, which, like all the rooms of the house, seemed
built for dwarfs and reeked of limewater and lye. It was at the day’s end, and in the room
were assembled Herr Francke and Herr Benjamin Dorn, who lodged on the second floor, and Frau
Hadebusch’s son, who was weak-minded and crouched grinning beside the stove.

Herr Francke was a town traveller for a cigar house, and was regarded as a good deal of a Don
Juan by the female servants of the neighbourhood. Benjamin Dorn was a clerk in the Prudentia
Life Insurance Company, belonged to a Methodist congregation, and was respected by all the
respectable on account of his Christian walk and conversation.

These gentlemen examined the document thoroughly and with frowns. Herr Francke gave it as his
opinion that a musician who never made music could scarcely be regarded as one.

“He’s probably pawned his bass violin or bugle or whatever he was taught,” he said contemptuously;
“perhaps he can only beat a drum. Well, I can do that too if I have one.”

“Yes, you’ve got to have a drum to be a drummer,” Benjamin Dorn remarked. “The question, however,
is whether such a calling is in harmony with the principles of Christian modesty.” He laid
his finger on his nose, and added: “It is a question which, with all proper humility, all proper
humility, you understand, I would answer in the negative.”

“He hasn’t any relatives and no acquaintances at all,” Frau Hadebusch wailed, and her voice
sounded like the scraping of carrots on a grater; “and no employment and no prospects and no
boots or clothes but what he’s got on. In all my life I haven’t had no such lodger.”

The blank fluttered to the floor, whence the weak-minded Hadebusch Jr. picked it up, rolled
it in the shape of a bag, and applied that bag, trumpet-like, to his lips, a procedure which
caused the document in question to be gradually soaked through and thus withdrawn from its
official uses. Frau Hadebusch was too little concerned over the police regulations to take
further thought of her duties as the keeper of a lodging house.

Herr Francke drew from his pocket a pack of greasy cards and began to shuffle them. Frau Hadebusch
giggled and it sounded like a witch rustling in the fire. The Methodist conquered his pious
scruples, and placed his pfennigs on the table; the town-traveller turned up his sleeves as
though he were about to wring a hen’s neck.

Before very long there arose a dissonant controversy, since Herr Francke’s relations with the
goddess of fortune were strained and violent. The old brush-maker poked his head in at the
door and cursed; the weak-minded boy blew dreamily on his paper trumpet; and the company that
had been so peacefully at one separated in violence and rage.

                                  II

Daniel wandered up to the castle, along the walls, over the bridges and planks.

It was his youth that caused him so to love the night that he forgot all men and seemed to
himself to be alone on earth. It was his youth that delivered him up to things with such passion
that he was able to weave the ghostly flowers of melodies about all that is visible—melodies
that were so delicate, so eloquent, and so winged that no pen could ever record them. They
vanished and died whenever he sought to capture them.

But it was also his youth that fired his eyes with hatred when he saw the comfort of lit windows,
and filled his heart with bitterness against the satisfied, the indifferent, the strangers,
the eternal strangers who had no consciousness of him.

He was so small and so great: small in the eyes of the world, great in his own estimation.
When the tones burst from him like sparks from an anvil, he was a god. When he stood in the
dark court behind the City Theatre waiting for the final chorus of “Fidelio” to penetrate the
wall and reach his grateful ears, he was an outcast. Fountains of music rustled all about him.
He looked into the eyes of the children and there was melody; he gazed up at the stars and
there was harmony. He finally came to the point where there was no limit. His day was a waste
place, his brain a parched field in the rain, his thoughts were birds of passage, his dreams
a super-life.

He lived on bread and fruit, treating himself only every third day to a warm meal in the inn
at the sign of the White Tower. There he would sit and listen at times, unobserved, to the
quite remarkable conversation of some young fellows. This awakened in him a longing for intercourse
with congenial companions. But when the brethren of the Vale of Tears finally took him into
their circle, he was like a Robinson Crusoe or a Selkirk who had been abducted from his island.

                                  III

Benjamin Dorn was a compassionate individual. The desire to save a lost soul filled him with
the courage to pay Daniel Nothafft a visit. He hobbled up the creaky steps with his club-foot,
and knocked timidly at the door.

“Can I be of service to you, Sir, in a Christian way?” he asked, after he had blown his nose.

Daniel looked at him in amazement.

“You know, I could help you in an unselfish, Christian way, to get a position. There is a great
deal of work to be done down at the Prudentia. If I were to recommend you to Herr Zittel it
certainly would not be in vain. Herr Zittel is head of the clerical department. I also stand
in with Herr Diruf, and he is general agent. I come in contact nearly every day with Inspector
Jordan, and Herr Jordan is a man of exceptional culture. His daughter Gertrude attended my
Sunday-school class. She has received and still enjoys divine favour. If you were to entrust
your case to me, you would be entering upon a righteous, wholesome career. I am always looking
out for some one. To tell the truth, and not wishing to appear immodest, I was born that way.”

The man looked like a patchwork of qualmishness, tribulation, and unctuous piety, and his coat
collar was badly frayed.

“That’s all right,” replied Daniel; “don’t you see that I am getting along quite well?”

The pious life-insurance agent sighed and brushed a drop from the tip of his nose with the
back of his hand. “My dear Sir,” said he, “take to heart the words of Solomon: Pride goeth
before a fall, but the humble in spirit obtain honour.”

“Yes, I’ll take that to heart,” said Daniel drily, and bent still lower over the score on which
he was working.

Benjamin Dorn sighed again, and limped out of the room. With his thumbs pointing straight to
high heaven above, he said to Frau Hadebusch: “You know, Frau Hadebusch, I simply can’t help
it. I must lighten my heart in a Christian way. What do you think?”

“Good heavens, what’s he doing? What’s he up to now?” sighed the old lady, as she shoved her
broom under her arm.

“As true as I stand here, the table is all covered with papers, and the papers are all covered
with some kind of mysterious signs.”

Alarmed at the very thought of having a lodger up in the attic who was practising black magic,
Frau Hadebusch sent her husband down to the district policeman. This enlightened official declared
that the brush-maker was a gossip. Vexed at this unanticipated description of himself, the
brush-maker went straightway to the inn at the sign of the Horse and got drunk, so drunk that
Benjamin Dorn had to take him home. It was a beautiful moonlit night.

                                  IV

Not far from Hadebusch’s was a little café known as The Paradise. Everything in it was diminutive,
the proprietor, the waitress, the tables, the chairs and the portions. There the brethren from
the Vale of Tears assembled to drag the gods down into the dust and destroy the universe in
general.

Daniel wended his way thither. He knew the liliputian room and the starved faces. He was personally
acquainted with the painter who never painted, the writer who never wrote, the student who
never studied, and the inventor who never invented anything. He knew all about the sculptor
who squandered such talents as he may have had in tinkering with plaster casts, the actor who
had been on a leave of absence for years, and the half dozen mendicant Philistines who came
here day after day to have a good time in their own repelling fashion. He knew the young Baron
von Auffenberg who had broken with his family for reasons that were clear to no one but himself.
He knew Herr Carovius, who invariably played the rôle of the observer, and who sat there in
a sort of mysterious fashion, smiling to himself a smile of languishing irony, and stroking
his hand over his long hair, which was cut straight across at the back of his neck.

He knew, ah, he knew by heart, the grease spots on the walls that had been rubbed in by the
heads of the habitués, the indelible splotches on the tables, the hartshorn buttons on the
proprietor’s vest, and the smoke-coloured curtains draped about the tiny windows. The loud,
boisterous talking, the daily repetition of the same hackneyed remarks, the anarchistic swashbuckling
of the painter whom his comrades had dubbed Kropotkin—all of these were familiar stories to
him. He knew the philosophic cynicism of the student who felt that he was the Socrates of the
nineteenth century, and who looked back on twenty-five wasted semesters as on so many battles
fought and won.

The most interesting personage was Herr Carovius. He was a well-read man. That he knew a great
deal about music was plain from many of his chance remarks. He was a brother-in-law of Andreas
Döderlein, though he seemed to take anything but pride in the relationship. If any one mentioned
Döderlein’s name in his presence, he screwed up his face, and began to shuffle about uneasily
on his chair. He was an unfathomable, impenetrable personality. Even if his years—he was forty-five—had
not won for him a measure of esteem, the malicious and mordant scorn he heaped on his fellow-men
would have done so. People said he had a good deal of money. If this was brought to his attention,
he employed the most ghastly oaths in asserting his poverty. But since he had neither calling
nor profession and spent his days in unqualified idleness, it was apparent that his assertions
on this point were wholly unfounded, and this despite the virility of his unconventional language.

“Say, tell me, who is that lanky quack there?” asked Herr Carovius, pointing to Daniel and
looking at Schwalbe the sculptor. He had known Daniel for a long while, but every now and then
it gave him a peculiar kind of pleasure to play the rôle of the newcomer.

The sculptor looked at him indignantly.

“That is a man who still has faith in himself,” he remarked rather morosely. “He is a man who
has bathed in the dragon blood of illusions, and has become as invulnerable as Young Siegfried.
He is convinced that the people who sleep in the houses around this part of town dream of his
future greatness, and have already placed an order with the green-grocer for his laurel wreath.
He has not the faintest idea that the only thing that is sacred to them is their midday meal,
that they are ready to drink their beer at the first stroke of the gong, and to yawn when the
light appears on Mount Sinai. He is completely taken up with himself; he is sufficient unto
himself; and he gathers honey. The bee will have its honey, and if it is unable to get it from
the flowers, it buzzes about the dung heap. As is evidently the case here. Prosit Nothafft,”
he said in conclusion, and lifted his glass to Daniel.

Herr Carovius smiled in his usual languishing fashion. “Nothafft,” he bleated, “Nothafft, Nothafft,
that is a fine name, but not exactly one that is predestined to a niche in Walhalla. It strikes
me as being rather more appropriate for the sign of a tailor. Good Lord! The bones the young
people gnaw at to-day were covered with meat in my time.”

And then, clasping his glasses a bit firmer onto his nose, he riveted his blinking, squinting
eyes on the door. Eberhard von Auffenberg, elegant, slender, and disgruntled, entered to find
life where others were throwing it away.

It was far into the night when the brethren went home. The curtains of the room were half drawn to
give the little creature air, and there rustled lightly through them
a low south wind, bearing the delicate perfume of blossoms, and the
lulling murmur of bees singing at their sweet toil.

 Then the voice died away in a solemn E-flat major chord, and everything
was as if sunk in the bottom of the sea.

                                   V

Toward the end of the summer, Philippina, Jason Philip’s daughter, shot out the eye of her
seven-year-old brother with a so-called bean-shooter.

The children were playing in the yard. Willibald, the older boy, wanted the shooter. Philippina,
who had not the slightest sense of humour, snatched it from his hands, placed the stone on
the elastic band and let it fly with all her might. Little Marcus ran in front of it. It was
all over in a jiffy. A heart-rending scream caused the frightened mother to leave the shop
and run out into the yard. She found the child lying on the ground convulsed with pain. While
Theresa carried the boy into the house, Jason Philip ran for the doctor. But it was too late;
the eye was lost.

Philippina hid. After considerable search her father found her under the cellar steps. He beat
her so mercilessly that the neighbours had to come up and take him away.

Little Marcus was Theresa’s favourite child. She could not get over the accident. The obsession
that had slumbered in her soul for years now became more persistent than ever: she began to
brood over guilt in general and this case in particular.

At times she would get up in the night, light a candle, and walk about the house in her stocking
feet. She would look behind the stove and under the table, and then crouch down with her ear
against the maid’s door. She would examine the mouse-trap and if a mouse had been caught in
it, she could not, try as she might, completely detach her own unrest from the mental disturbance
of the little beast.

One day Jason Philip was stopped on the street by a well-known cabinet-maker and asked whether
he had any old furniture for sale. Jason Philip replied that he was not at all familiar with
the contents of the attic and sent him to Theresa. Theresa recalled that there was an old desk
up in the attic that had been standing there for years. She suggested that they might be willing
to dispose of this for a few taler, and accompanied the man to the room where the worn-out
furniture was stored.

She opened the little wooden door. The cabinet-maker caught sight at once of the desk. It had
only three legs and was just about ready to fall to pieces. “I can’t make you an offer for
that,” said the cabinet-maker, and began to rap on it here and there, somewhat as a physician
might sound a corpse. “The most I can offer you is twelve groschen.”

They haggled for a while, and finally agreed on sixteen. The man left at once, having promised
to send one of his men up in the afternoon to get the desk. Theresa was already standing on
the steps, when it occurred to her that it might be well to go through the drawers before letting
the thing get out of the house: there might be some old documents in them. She went back up
in the attic.

In the dust of one of the drawers she found, sure enough, a bundle of papers, and among them
the receipt which Gottfried Nothafft had sent back to Jason Philip ten years before. She read
in the indistinct light the confidential words of the deceased. She saw that Jason Philip had
received three thousand taler.

After she had read this, she crumpled up the paper. Then she put it into her apron pocket and
screamed out: “Be gone, Gottfried, be gone!”

She went down stairs into the kitchen. There she took her place by the table and stirred a
mixture of flour and eggs, as completely absent-minded as it is possible for one to become
who spends her time in that part of the house. Rieke, the maid, became so alarmed at her behaviour
that she made the sign of the cross.

                                  VI

When the midday meal was over, the children left the table and prepared to go to school. Jason
Philip lighted a cigar, and took the newspaper from his pocket.

“Did you find anything for the second-hand furniture man?” he asked, as he puffed away.

“I found something for him and something for myself,” she said.

“What do you mean? You found something for yourself?”

“What do I mean? I mean just what I said. I have always known that there was something crooked
about that money.”

“What money are you talking about? Listen, don’t speak to me in riddles! When you have anything
to say to me, say it. Do you understand?”

“I mean Gottfried Nothafft’s money, Jason Philip,” said Theresa, almost in a whisper. 

Roger was weary with watching; the chiming sounds of Summer, the low ticking of the old clock
on the stairs, and the utter quiet within, soothed him to slumber; his head bent forward and
rested on the bedside; he fell asleep, and in his sleep he dreamed.

 Jason Philip got
up, clasped his hands behind his back, and began to walk back and forth. Just then Rieke came
in and began to clear off the table. She went about her business in a slow but noisy fashion.
She made things rattle, even if she could not make them hum. When she was through, Jason Philip,
his hands pressed to his hips, his elbows protruding, planted himself before Theresa.

“I suppose you think I am going to let you browbeat me,” he began. “Well, my dear woman, you’re
mistaken. Listen! Are you angry at me because I have created for you and your children a dignified
existence? Do you take it amiss of me for having kept your sister from going to the poor-house?
You act as though I had won that much money at the county fair, or had squandered an equal
amount at the same place. The truth is, Gottfried Nothafft entrusted me with three thousand
taler. That’s what he did; that’s the truth. It was his intention to keep the whole affair
from the chatter of women. And he willed that I should use this hard-earned capital in a productive
way, and not give it to the culprit who would waste it in debauchery and worse if possible.”

“Ill-gotten goods seldom prosper,” said Theresa, without looking up. “Things may go along all
right for ten years, and that seems like a long time, but the vengeance of Heaven comes in
the eleventh, as it has already come in the case of little Marcus.”

“Theresa—you’re talking like a mad woman,” said Jason Philip at the top of his voice. With
that he picked up a chair, and threw it on the floor so violently that every cup, spoon, and
plate in the room shook.

Theresa turned her peasant face toward him without the shadow of a trace of fear. He was a
trifle alarmed: “You’ll have to be responsible, if you can, for any misfortune that visits
us in the future.” She spoke these words with a deep voice.

“Do you think I am a bandit?” said Jason Philip. “Do you think I want to pocket the money?
Don’t you think that I am capable of anything better or higher than that? Or is ambition of
any sort quite beyond your powers of comprehension?”

