To keep green the memory of such a man is at once a privilege and a duty. That stainless life
of seventy years is a priceless legacy.  His hands were pure.  The shadow of suspicion never
fell on him.  If he erred in his opinions (and that he did so he had the Christian grace and
courage to own), no selfish interest weighed in the scale of his judgment against truth.

As our thoughts follow him to his last resting-place, we are sadly reminded of his own touching
lines, written many years ago at Florence. The name he has left behind is none the less "pure"
that instead of being "humble," as he then anticipated, it is on the lips of grateful millions,
and written ineffaceable on the record of his country's trial and triumph:--

         "Yet not for me when I shall fall asleep
          Shall Santa Croce's lamps their vigils keep.
          Beyond the main in Auburn's quiet shade,
          With those I loved and love my couch be made;
          Spring's pendant branches o'er the hillock wave,
          And morning's dewdrops glisten on my grave,
          While Heaven's great arch shall rise above my bed,
          When Santa Croce's crumbles on her dead,--
          Unknown to erring or to suffering fame,
          So may I leave a pure though humble name."

Congratulating the Society on the prospect of the speedy consummation of the great objects
of our associate's labors,--the peace and permanent union of our country,--

I am very truly thy friend.

LEWIS TAPPAN.

[1873.]

One after another, those foremost in the antislavery conflict of the last half century are
rapidly passing away.  The grave has just closed over all that was mortal of Salmon P. Chase,
the kingliest of men, a statesman second to no other in our history, too great and pure for
the Presidency, yet leaving behind him a record which any incumbent of that station might envy,--and
now the telegraph brings us the tidings of the death of Lewis Tappan, of Brooklyn, so long
and so honorably identified with the anti- slavery cause, and with every philanthropic and
Christian enterprise.  He was a native of Massachusetts, born at Northampton in 1788, of Puritan
lineage,--one of a family remarkable for integrity, decision of character, and intellectual
ability.  At the very outset, in company with his brother Arthur, he devoted his time, talents,
wealth, and social position to the righteous but unpopular cause of Emancipation, and became,
in consequence, a mark for the persecution which followed such devotion.  His business was
crippled, his name cast out as evil, his dwelling sacked, and his furniture dragged into the
street and burned. Yet he never, in the darkest hour, faltered or hesitated for a moment. He
knew he was right, and that the end would justify him; one of the cheerfullest of men, he was
strong where others were weak, hopeful where others despaired.  He was wise in counsel, and
prompt in action; like Tennyson's Sir Galahad,

              "His strength was as the strength of ten,
               Because his heart was pure."

I met him for the first time forty years ago, at the convention which formed the American Anti-Slavery
Society, where I chanced to sit by him as one of the secretaries.  Myself young and inexperienced,
I remember how profoundly I was impressed by his cool self-possession, clearness of perception,
and wonderful executive ability.  Had he devoted himself to party politics with half the zeal
which he manifested in behalf of those who had no votes to give and no honors to bestow, he
could have reached the highest offices in the land.  He chose his course, knowing all that
he renounced, and he chose it wisely.  He never, at least, regretted it.

